
Tamil Bookshelf Etext of The Phoenix and the Turtle by Shakespeare
PG has multiple editions of William Shakespeare's Complete Works





The Phoenix and the Turtle

by William Shakespeare [Collins edition]

November, 1998 [Etext #1525]


Tamil Bookshelf Etext of The Phoenix and the Turtle by Shakespeare
******This file should be named 2ws2710.txt or 2ws2710.zip******

Corrected EDITIONS of our etexts get a new NUMBER, 2ws2711.txt
VERSIONS based on separate sources get new LETTER, 2ws2710a.txt


This etext was prepared by the PG Shakespeare Team,
a team of about twenty Tamil Bookshelf volunteers.


Tamil Bookshelf Etexts are usually created from multiple editions,
all of which are in the Public Domain in the United States, unless a
copyright notice is included.  Therefore, we usually do NOT! keep
these books in compliance with any particular paper edition.


We are now trying to release all our books one month in advance
of the official release dates, leaving time for better editing.




Information about Tamil Bookshelf (one page)





******

This etext was prepared by the PG Shakespeare Team,
a team of about twenty Tamil Bookshelf volunteers.





THE PHOENIX AND THE TURTLE

by William Shakespeare




Let the bird of loudest lay,
On the sole Arabian tree,
Herald sad and trumpet be,
To whose sound chaste wings obey.

But thou, shrieking harbinger,
Foul pre-currer of the fiend,
Augur of the fever's end,
To this troop come thou not near.

From this session interdict
Every fowl of tyrant wing,
Save the eagle, feather'd king:
Keep the obsequy so strict.

Let the priest in surplice white,
That defunctive music can,
Be the death-defying swan,
Lest the requiem lack his right.

And thou, treble-dated crow,
That thy sable gender mak'st
With the breath thou giv'st and tak'st,
'Mongst our mourners shalt thou go.

Here the anthem doth commence:
Love and constancy is dead;
Phoenix and the turtle fled
In a mutual flame from hence.

So they lov'd, as love in twain
Had the essence but in one;
Two distincts, division none:
Number there in love was slain.

Hearts remote, yet not asunder;
Distance, and no space was seen
'Twixt the turtle and his queen;
But in them it were a wonder.

So between them love did shine,
That the turtle saw his right
Flaming in the phoenix' sight:
Either was the other's mine.

Property was thus appall'd,
That the self was not the same;
Single nature's double name
Neither two nor one was call'd.

Reason, in itself confounded,
Saw division grow together;
To themselves yet either-neither,
Simple were so well compounded.

That it cried how true a twain
Seemeth this concordant one!
Love hath reason, reason none
If what parts can so remain.

Whereupon it made this threne
To the phoenix and the dove,
Co-supreme and stars of love;
As chorus to their tragic scene.

       THRENOS.

Beauty, truth, and rarity.
Grace in all simplicity,
Here enclos'd in cinders lie.

Death is now the phoenix' nest;
And the turtle's loyal breast
To eternity doth rest,

Leaving no posterity:--
'Twas not their infirmity,
It was married chastity.

Truth may seem, but cannot be:
Beauty brag, but 'tis not she;
Truth and beauty buried be.

To this urn let those repair
That are either true or fair;
For these dead birds sigh a prayer.





End of Tamil Bookshelf Etext of The Phoenix and the Turtle by Shakespeare
PG has multiple editions of William Shakespeare's Complete Works

