The Tamil Bookshelf EBook of The 2008 CIA World Factbook, by 
United States.  Central Intelligence Agency.




Title: The 2008 CIA World Factbook

Author: United States.  Central Intelligence Agency.

Release Date: June 25, 2009 [EBook #29233]

Language: English

Character set encoding: ISO-8859-1

*** START OF THIS Tamil Bookshelf EBOOK THE 2008 CIA WORLD FACTBOOK ***




Produced by Al Haines






THE CIA WORLD FACTBOOK 2008




CONTENTS


Countries and Locations

Field Listings

Rank Orders

Appendixes

Notes and Definitions

History of the World Factbook

Contributors and Copyright Information

Purchasing Information

Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)



What's New

- Country information has been updated as of 18 December 2008.

- In the People category, two new fields provide information on
education in terms of opportunity and resources. "School Life
Expectancy" is an estimate of the total number of years of schooling
(primary to tertiary) that a child can expect to receive, assuming
that the probability of his or her being enrolled in school at any
particular future age is equal to the current enrollment ratio at
that age. "Education expenditures" provides an estimate of the public
expenditure on education as a percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP).

- In order to help policymakers understand the nature and global
dimensions of the current financial crisis, The World Factbook has
added five new fields to the Economy category. "Central bank discount
rate" provides the annualized interest rate a country's central bank
charges commercial, depository banks for loans to meet temporary
shortages of funds. "Commercial bank prime lending rate" provides a
simple average of annualized interest rates commercial banks charge
on new loans, denominated in the national currency, to their most
credit-worthy customers. "Stock of money" also known as "M1," comprises
the total quantity of currency in circulation (notes and coins) plus
demand deposits denominated in the national currency, held by nonbank
financial institutions, state and local governments, nonfinancial
public enterprises, and the private sector of the economy. "Stock of
quasi money" comprises the total quantity of time and savings deposits
denominated in the national currency, held by nonbank financial
institutions, state and local governments, nonfinancial public
enterprises, and the private sector of the economy. When added together
with "M1" the total money supply is known as "M2." "Stock of domestic
credit" is the total quantity of credit, denominated in the domestic
currency, provided by banks to nonbanking institutions.

- In the Geography category, two new fields focus on the increasingly
vital resource of water: "Total renewable water resources" and
"Freshwater withdrawal."

- Revision of some individual country maps, first introduced in the
2001 edition, is continued in this edition. Several regional maps have
also been updated to reflect boundary changes and place name spelling
changes.




======================================================================




The World Factbook (2008) - Country Listing


[Transcriber's note: To search on a country in this file, prefix the
country's name with "@", e.g. "@Afghanistan".  "Afghanistan" will find
all occurrences; prefixing it with "@" will find the correct location.]



World


A

Afghanistan
Akrotiri
Albania
Algeria
American Samoa
Andorra
Angola
Anguilla
Antarctica
Antigua and Barbuda
Arctic Ocean
Argentina
Armenia
Aruba
Ashmore and Cartier Islands
Atlantic Ocean
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan


B

Bahamas, The
Bahrain
Baker Island description under United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belarus
Belgium
Belize
Benin
Bermuda
Bhutan
Bolivia
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Botswana
Bouvet Island
Brazil
British Indian Ocean Territory
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burma
Burundi


C


Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Cape Verde
Cayman Islands
Central African Republic
Chad
Chile
China
Christmas Island
Clipperton Island
Cocos (Keeling) Islands
Colombia
Comoros
Congo, Democratic Republic of the
Congo, Republic of the
Cook Islands
Coral Sea Islands
Costa Rica
Cote d'Ivoire
Croatia
Cuba
Cyprus
Czech Republic


D


Denmark
Dhekelia
Djibouti
Dominica
Dominican Republic


E


Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Equatorial Guinea
Eritrea
Estonia
Ethiopia
European Union entry follows Taiwan


F


Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
Faroe Islands
Fiji
Finland
France
French Polynesia
French Southern and Antarctic Lands


G


Gabon
Gambia, The
Gaza Strip
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Greenland
Grenada
Guam
Guatemala
Guernsey
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Guyana


H


Haiti
Heard Island and McDonald Islands
Holy See (Vatican City)
Honduras
Hong Kong
Howland Island description under United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
Hungary


I


Iceland
India
Indian Ocean
Indonesia
Iran
Iraq
Ireland
Isle of Man
Israel
Italy


J


Jamaica
Jan Mayen
Japan
Jarvis Island description under United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
Jersey
Johnston Atoll description under United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
Jordan


K


Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kingman Reef description under United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
Kiribati
Korea, North
Korea, South
Kosovo
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan


L


Laos
Latvia
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Libya
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg


M


Macau
Macedonia
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Maldives
Mali
Malta
Marshall Islands
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mayotte
Mexico
Micronesia, Federated States of
Midway Islands description under United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
Moldova
Monaco
Mongolia
Montenegro
Montserrat
Morocco
Mozambique


N


Namibia
Nauru
Navassa Island
Nepal
Netherlands
Netherlands Antilles
New Caledonia
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Niue
Norfolk Island
Northern Mariana Islands
Norway


O


Oman


P


Pacific Ocean
Pakistan
Palau
Palmyra Atoll description under United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paracel Islands
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Pitcairn Islands
Poland
Portugal
Puerto Rico


Q


Qatar


R


Romania
Russia
Rwanda


S


Saint Helena
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Pierre and Miquelon
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Samoa
San Marino
Sao Tome and Principe
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovakia
Slovenia
Solomon Islands
Somalia
South Africa
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
Southern Ocean
Spain
Spratly Islands
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Suriname
Svalbard
Swaziland
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria


T


Taiwan entry follows Zimbabwe
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Timor-Leste
Togo
Tokelau
Tonga
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Turks and Caicos Islands
Tuvalu


U


Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United States
United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
Uruguay
Uzbekistan


V


Vanuatu
Venezuela
Vietnam
Virgin Islands


W


Wake Island
Wallis and Futuna
West Bank
Western Sahara


Y


Yemen


Z


Zambia
Zimbabwe



Taiwan
European Union



=====================================================================



Code  Field Description

2001  GDP (purchasing power parity)
2002  Population growth rate (%)
2003  GDP - real growth rate (%)
2004  GDP - per capita (PPP)
2006  Dependency status
2007  Diplomatic representation from the US
2008  Transportation - note
2010  Age structure (%)
2011  Geographic coordinates
2012  GDP - composition by sector (%)
2013  Radio broadcast stations
2015  Television broadcast stations
2018  Sex ratio (male(s)/female)
2019  Heliports
2020  Elevation extremes (m)
2021  Natural hazards
2022  People - note
2023  Area - comparative
2024  Military service age and obligation (years of age)
2025  Manpower fit for military service
2026  Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually
2028  Background
2030  Airports - with paved runways
2031  Airports - with unpaved runways
2032  Environment - current issues
2033  Environment - international agreements
2034  Military expenditures (% of GDP)
2038  Electricity - production (kWh)
2042  Electricity - consumption (kWh)
2043  Electricity - imports (kWh)
2044  Electricity - exports (kWh)
2046  Population below poverty line (%)
2047  Household income or consumption by percentage share (%)
2048  Labor force - by occupation (%)
2049  Exports - commodities (%)
2050  Exports - partners (%)
2051  Administrative divisions
2052  Agriculture - products
2053  Airports
2054  Birth rate (births/1,000 population)
2055  Military branches
2056  Budget
2057  Capital
2058  Imports - commodities (%)
2059  Climate
2060  Coastline (km)
2061  Imports - partners (%)
2062  Economic aid - donor
2063  Constitution
2064  Economic aid - recipient
2065  Currency (code)
2066  Death rate (deaths/1,000 population)
2068  Dependent areas
2070  Disputes - international
2075  Ethnic groups (%)
2076  Exchange rates
2077  Executive branch
2078  Exports
2079  Debt - external
2080  Fiscal year
2081  Flag description
2085  Roadways (km)
2086  Illicit drugs
2087  Imports
2088  Independence
2089  Industrial production growth rate (%)
2090  Industries
2091  Infant mortality rate (deaths/1,000 live births)
2092  Inflation rate (consumer prices) (%)
2093  Waterways (km)
2094  Judicial branch
2095  Labor force
2096  Land boundaries (km)
2097  Land use (%)
2098  Languages (%)
2100  Legal system
2101  Legislative branch
2102  Life expectancy at birth (years)
2103  Literacy (%)
2105  Manpower available for military service
2106  Maritime claims
2107  International organization participation
2108  Merchant marine
2109  National holiday
2110  Nationality
2111  Natural resources
2112  Net migration rate (migrant(s)/1,000 population)
2113  Geography - note
2115  Political pressure groups and leaders
2116  Economy - overview
2117  Pipelines (km)
2118  Political parties and leaders
2119  Population
2120  Ports and terminals
2121  Railways (km)
2122  Religions (%)
2123  Suffrage
2124  Telephone system
2125  Terrain
2127  Total fertility rate (children born/woman)
2128  Government type
2129  Unemployment rate (%)
2137  Military - note
2138  Communications - note
2140  Government - note
2142  Country name
2144  Location
2145  Map references
2146  Irrigated land (sq km)
2147  Area (sq km)
2149  Diplomatic representation in the US
2150  Telephones - main lines in use
2151  Telephones - mobile cellular
2153  Internet users
2154  Internet country code
2155  HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate (%)
2156  HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS
2157  HIV/AIDS - deaths
2172  Distribution of family income - Gini index
2173  Oil - production (bbl/day)
2174  Oil - consumption (bbl/day)
2175  Oil - imports (bbl/day)
2176  Oil - exports (bbl/day)
2177  Median age (years)
2178  Oil - proved reserves (bbl)
2179  Natural gas - proved reserves (cu m)
2180  Natural gas - production (cu m)
2181  Natural gas - consumption (cu m)
2182  Natural gas - imports (cu m)
2183  Natural gas - exports (cu m)
2184  Internet hosts
2185  Investment (gross fixed) (% of GDP)
2186  Public debt (% of GDP)
2187  Current account balance
2188  Reserves of foreign exchange and gold
2193  Major infectious diseases
2194  Refugees and internally displaced persons
2195  GDP (official exchange rate)
2196  Trafficking in persons
2198  Stock of direct foreign investment - at home
2199  Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad
2200  Market value of publicly traded shares
2201  Total renewable water resources (cu km)
2202  Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural) ()
2203  Geographic overview
2204  Economy of the area administered by Turkish Cypriots
2205  School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education) (years)
2206  Education expenditures (% of GDP)
2207  Central bank discount rate (%)
2208  Commercial bank prime lending rate (%)
2209  Stock of money
2210  Stock of quasi money
2211  Stock of domestic credit



======================================================================



Rank Orders


[Transcriber's note: To search on a rank order in this file, prefix
the rank's name with "@", e.g. "@Population".  "Population" will find
all occurrences; prefixing it with "@" will find the correct location.]


Rank Order pages are presorted lists of data from selected Factbook
data fields. Rank Order pages are generally given in descending order -
highest to lowest - such as Population and Area. The two exceptions are
Unemployment Rate and Inflation Rate, which are in ascending - lowest
to highest - order. Rank Order pages are available for the following 55
fields in six of the nine Factbook categories.


Geography

Area - total


People

Population
Population growth rate
Birth rate
Death rate
Infant mortality rate
Life expectancy at birth - total
Total fertility rate
HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate
HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS
HIV/AIDS - deaths


Economy

GDP (purchasing power parity)
GDP - real growth rate
GDP - per capita
Labor force
Unemployment rate
Inflation rate (consumer prices)
Central bank discount rate
Commercial bank prime lending rate
Stock of money
Stock of quasi money
Stock of domestic credit
Investment (gross fixed)
Public debt
Industrial production growth rate
Electricity - production
Electricity - consumption
Oil - production
Oil - consumption
Oil - exports
Oil - imports
Oil - proved reserves
Natural Gas - production
Natural Gas - consumption
Natural Gas - exports
Natural Gas - imports
Natural Gas - proved reserves
Current account balance
Exports
Imports
Reserves of foreign exchange and gold
Debt - external
Stock of direct foreign investment - at home
Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad
Market value of publicly traded shares


Communications

Telephones - main lines in use
Telephones - mobile cellular
Internet hosts
Internet users


Transportation

Airports
Railways - total
Roadways - total
Waterways
Merchant marine - total


Military

Military expenditures - percent of GDP



Factbook fields with Rank Order pages are easily identified with a
small bar chart icon to the right of the data field title.

Not all Rank Order pages include the same number of entries because
information for a particular field is not available for all countries.
In addition, not all data fields are suitable for displaying as Rank
Order pages, such as those containing textual information. Textual
information is more readily viewed by clicking on the Field Listing
icon  next to the Data field title. The other icon next to the data
field title provides the definition of the field.

All of the 'Rank Order' pages can be downloaded as tab-delimited data
files and can be opened in other applications such as spreadsheets and
databases. To save a Rank Order page in a spreadsheet, first click on
the 'Download Datafile' choice above the Rank Order page you selected;
then, at the top of your browser window, click on 'File' and 'Save As'.
After saving the file, open the spreadsheet, find the saved file, and
'Open' it.

Additional Rank Order pages being considered for future updates of the
Factbook Web site include:

  Median age
  Literacy
  Population below the poverty line


This page was last updated on 20 November, 2008



=====================================================================




Appendixes


Appendix A - Abbreviations

Appendix B - International Organizations and Groups

Appendix C - Selected International Environmental Agreements

Appendix D - Cross-Reference list of Country Data Codes

Appendix E - Cross-Reference List of Hydrographic Data Codes

Appendix F - Cross-Reference List of Geographic Names

Appendix G - Weights and Measures


======================================================================



Notes and Definitions


In addition to the regular information updates, The World Factbook 2008
features several new additions. In the Geography category, two new
fields focus on the increasingly vital resource of water: "Total
renewable water resources" and "Freshwater withdrawal."

In the Economy category, the Factbook has added three fields: "Stock of
direct foreign investment - at home", "Stock of direct foreign
investment - abroad", and "Market value of publicly traded shares."
Additionally, the data for GDP at purchasing power parity (PPP) has
been rebased using new PPP conversion rates, benchmarked to the year
2005, which were released on 17 December 2007 by the International
Comparison Program (ICP). The 2005 PPP data replace previous estimates,
many from studies dating to 1993 or earlier. The preliminary ICP report
provides estimates of internationally comparable price levels and the
relative purchasing power of currencies for 146 countries. The 2005
benchmark revises downward the size of the world economy in PPP terms
from the previous estimates, and changes the relative sizes of many of
the world's economies.

Concise descriptions of the major religions mentioned in the Factbook
have been added to the Notes and Definitions. France 's redesignation
of some of its overseas possessions caused the five former Indian Ocean
island possessions making up Iles Eparses to be incorporated into the
French Southern and Antarctic Lands, while two new Caribbean entities,
St. Barthelemy and St. Martin, were created.

Revision of some individual country maps, first introduced in the 2001
edition, is continued in this edition. The revised maps include
elevation extremes and a partial geographic grid. Several regional maps
have also been updated to reflect boundary changes and place name
spelling changes.

Abbreviations:  This information is included in Appendix A:
Abbreviations, which includes all abbreviations and acronyms used in
the Factbook, with their expansions.

Acronyms:  An acronym is an abbreviation coined from the initial letter
of each successive word in a term or phrase. In general, an acronym
made up solely from the first letter of the major words in the expanded
form is rendered in all capital letters (NATO from North Atlantic
Treaty Organization; an exception would be ASEAN for Association of
Southeast Asian Nations). In general, an acronym made up of more than
the first letter of the major words in the expanded form is rendered
with only an initial capital letter (Comsat from Communications
Satellite Corporation; an exception would be NAM from Nonaligned
Movement). Hybrid forms are sometimes used to distinguish between
initially identical terms (ICC for International Chamber of Commerce
and ICCt for International Criminal Court).

Administrative divisions:  This entry generally gives the numbers,
designatory terms, and first-order administrative divisions as approved
by the US Board on Geographic Names (BGN). Changes that have been
reported but not yet acted on by the BGN are noted.

Age structure:  This entry provides the distribution of the population
according to age. Information is included by sex and age group (0-14
years, 15-64 years, 65 years and over). The age structure of a
population affects a nation's key socioeconomic issues. Countries with
young populations (high percentage under age 15) need to invest more in
schools, while countries with older populations (high percentage ages
65 and over) need to invest more in the health sector. The age
structure can also be used to help predict potential political issues.
For example, the rapid growth of a young adult population unable to
find employment can lead to unrest.

Agriculture - products:  This entry is an ordered listing of major
crops and products starting with the most important.

Airports:  This entry gives the total number of airports or airfields
recognizable from the air. The runway(s) may be paved (concrete or
asphalt surfaces) or unpaved (grass, earth, sand, or gravel surfaces)
but may include closed or abandoned installations. Airports or
airfields that are no longer recognizable (overgrown, no facilities,
etc.) are not included. Note that not all airports have accommodations
for refueling, maintenance, or air traffic control.

Airports - with paved runways:  This entry gives the total number of
airports with paved runways (concrete or asphalt surfaces) by length.
For airports with more than one runway, only the longest runway is
included according to the following five groups - (1) over 3,047 m, (2)
2,438 to 3,047 m, (3) 1,524 to 2,437 m, (4) 914 to 1,523 m, and (5)
under 914 m. Only airports with usable runways are included in this
listing. Not all airports have facilities for refueling, maintenance,
or air traffic control.

Airports - with unpaved runways:  This entry gives the total number of
airports with unpaved runways (grass, dirt, sand, or gravel surfaces)
by length. For airports with more than one runway, only the longest
runway is included according to the following five groups - (1) over
3,047 m, (2) 2,438 to 3,047 m, (3) 1,524 to 2,437 m, (4) 914 to 1,523
m, and (5) under 914 m. Only airports with usable runways are included
in this listing. Not all airports have facilities for refueling,
maintenance, or air traffic control.

Appendixes:  This section includes Factbook-related material by topic.

Area:  This entry includes three subfields. Total area is the sum of
all land and water areas delimited by international boundaries and/or
coastlines. Land area is the aggregate of all surfaces delimited by
international boundaries and/or coastlines, excluding inland water
bodies (lakes, reservoirs, rivers). Water area is the sum of the
surfaces of all inland water bodies, such as lakes, reservoirs, or
rivers, as delimited by international boundaries and/or coastlines.

Area - comparative:  This entry provides an area comparison based on
total area equivalents. Most entities are compared with the entire US
or one of the 50 states based on area measurements (1990 revised)
provided by the US Bureau of the Census. The smaller entities are
compared with Washington, DC (178 sq km, 69 sq mi) or The Mall in
Washington, DC (0.59 sq km, 0.23 sq mi, 146 acres).

Background:  This entry usually highlights major historic events and
current issues and may include a statement about one or two key future
trends.

Birth rate:  This entry gives the average annual number of births
during a year per 1,000 persons in the population at midyear; also
known as crude birth rate. The birth rate is usually the dominant
factor in determining the rate of population growth. It depends on both
the level of fertility and the age structure of the population.

Budget:  This entry includes revenues, expenditures, and capital
expenditures. These figures are calculated on an exchange rate basis,
i.e., not in purchasing power parity (PPP) terms.

Capital:  This entry gives the name of the seat of government, its
geographic coordinates, the time difference relative to Coordinated
Universal Time (UTC) and the time observed in Washington, DC, and, if
applicable, information on daylight saving time (DST). Where
appropriate, a special note has been added to highlight those countries
that have multiple time zones.

Central bank discount rate:  This entry provides the annualized
interest rate a country's central bank charges commercial, depository
banks for loans to meet temporary shortages of funds.

Climate:  This entry includes a brief description of typical weather
regimes throughout the year.

Coastline:  This entry gives the total length of the boundary between
the land area (including islands) and the sea.

Commercial bank prime lending rate:  This entry provides a simple
average of annualized interest rates commercial banks charge on new
loans, denominated in the national currency, to their most credit-
worthy customers.

Communications:  This category deals with the means of exchanging
information and includes the telephone, radio, television, and Internet
host entries.

Communications - note:  This entry includes miscellaneous
communications information of significance not included elsewhere.

Constitution:  This entry includes the dates of adoption, revisions,
and major amendments.

Coordinated Universal Time (UTC):  UTC is the international atomic time
scale that serves as the basis of timekeeping for most of the world.
The hours, minutes, and seconds expressed by UTC represent the time of
day at the Prime Meridian (0 deg. longitude) located near Greenwich,
England as reckoned from midnight. UTC is calculated by the Bureau
International des Poids et Measures (BIPM) in Sevres, France. The BIPM
averages data collected from more than 200 atomic time and frequency
standards located at about 50 laboratories worldwide. UTC is the basis
for all civil time with the Earth divided into time zones expressed as
positive or negative differences from UTC. UTC is also referred to as
"Zulu time." See the Standard Time Zones of the World map included with
the Reference Maps.

Country data codes:  see Data codes.

Country map:  Most versions of the Factbook provide a country map in
color. The maps were produced from the best information available at
the time of preparation. Names and/or boundaries may have changed
subsequently.

Country name:  This entry includes all forms of the country's name
approved by the US Board on Geographic Names (Italy is used as an
example): conventional long form (Italian Republic), conventional short
form (Italy), local long form (Repubblica Italiana), local short form
(Italia), former (Kingdom of Italy), as well as the abbreviation. Also
see the Terminology note.

Crude oil:  See entry for oil.

Current account balance:  This entry records a country's net trade in
goods and services, plus net earnings from rents, interest, profits,
and dividends, and net transfer payments (such as pension funds and
worker remittances) to and from the rest of the world during the period
specified. These figures are calculated on an exchange rate basis,
i.e., not in purchasing power parity (PPP) terms.

Data codes:  This information is presented in Appendix D: Cross-
Reference List of Country Data Codes and Appendix E: Cross-Reference
List of Hydrographic Data Codes.

Date of information:  In general, information available as of 1 January
2007 was used in the preparation of this edition.

Daylight Saving Time (DST):  This entry is included for those entities
that have adopted a policy of adjusting the official local time
forward, usually one hour, from Standard Time during summer months.
Such policies are most common in mid-latitude regions.

Death rate:  This entry gives the average annual number of deaths
during a year per 1,000 population at midyear; also known as crude
death rate. The death rate, while only a rough indicator of the
mortality situation in a country, accurately indicates the current
mortality impact on population growth. This indicator is significantly
affected by age distribution, and most countries will eventually show a
rise in the overall death rate, in spite of continued decline in
mortality at all ages, as declining fertility results in an aging
population.

Debt - external:  This entry gives the total public and private debt
owed to nonresidents repayable in foreign currency, goods, or services.
These figures are calculated on an exchange rate basis, i.e., not in
purchasing power parity (PPP) terms.

Dependency status:  This entry describes the formal relationship
between a particular nonindependent entity and an independent state.

Dependent areas:  This entry contains an alphabetical listing of all
nonindependent entities associated in some way with a particular
independent state.

Diplomatic representation:  The US Government has diplomatic relations
with 189 independent states, including 187 of the 192 UN members
(excluded UN members are Bhutan, Cuba, Iran, North Korea, and the US
itself). In addition, the US has diplomatic relations with 2
independent states that are not in the UN, the Holy See and Kosovo, as
well as with the EU.

Diplomatic representation from the US:  This entry includes the chief
of mission, embassy address, mailing address, telephone number, FAX
number, branch office locations, consulate general locations, and
consulate locations.

Diplomatic representation in the US:  This entry includes the chief of
mission, chancery, telephone, FAX, consulate general locations, and
consulate locations.

Disputes - international:  This entry includes a wide variety of
situations that range from traditional bilateral boundary disputes to
unilateral claims of one sort or another. Information regarding
disputes over international terrestrial and maritime boundaries has
been reviewed by the US Department of State. References to other
situations involving borders or frontiers may also be included, such as
resource disputes, geopolitical questions, or irredentist issues;
however, inclusion does not necessarily constitute official acceptance
or recognition by the US Government.

Distribution of family income - Gini index:  This index measures the
degree of inequality in the distribution of family income in a country.
The index is calculated from the Lorenz curve, in which cumulative
family income is plotted against the number of families arranged from
the poorest to the richest. The index is the ratio of (a) the area
between a country's Lorenz curve and the 45 degree helping line to (b)
the entire triangular area under the 45 degree line. The more nearly
equal a country's income distribution, the closer its Lorenz curve to
the 45 degree line and the lower its Gini index, e.g., a Scandinavian
country with an index of 25. The more unequal a country's income
distribution, the farther its Lorenz curve from the 45 degree line and
the higher its Gini index, e.g., a Sub-Saharan country with an index of
50. If income were distributed with perfect equality, the Lorenz curve
would coincide with the 45 degree line and the index would be zero; if
income were distributed with perfect inequality, the Lorenz curve would
coincide with the horizontal axis and the right vertical axis and the
index would be 100.

Economy:  This category includes the entries dealing with the size,
development, and management of productive resources, i.e., land, labor,
and capital.

Economy - overview:  This entry briefly describes the type of economy,
including the degree of market orientation, the level of economic
development, the most important natural resources, and the unique areas
of specialization. It also characterizes major economic events and
policy changes in the most recent 12 months and may include a statement
about one or two key future macroeconomic trends.

Education expenditures:  This entry provides the public expenditure on
education as a percent of GDP

Electricity - consumption:  This entry consists of total electricity
generated annually plus imports and minus exports, expressed in
kilowatt-hours. The discrepancy between the amount of electricity
generated and/or imported and the amount consumed and/or exported is
accounted for as loss in transmission and distribution.

Electricity - exports:  This entry is the total exported electricity in
kilowatt-hours.

Electricity - imports:  This entry is the total imported electricity in
kilowatt-hours.

Electricity - production:  This entry is the annual electricity
generated expressed in kilowatt-hours. The discrepancy between the
amount of electricity generated and/or imported and the amount consumed
and/or exported is accounted for as loss in transmission and
distribution.

Elevation extremes:  This entry includes both the highest point and the
lowest point.

Entities:  Some of the independent states, dependencies, areas of
special sovereignty, and governments included in this publication are
not independent, and others are not officially recognized by the US
Government. "Independent state" refers to a people politically
organized into a sovereign state with a definite territory.
"Dependencies" and "areas of special sovereignty" refer to a broad
category of political entities that are associated in some way with an
independent state. "Country" names used in the table of contents or for
page headings are usually the short-form names as approved by the US
Board on Geographic Names and may include independent states,
dependencies, and areas of special sovereignty, or other geographic
entities. There are a total of 266 separate geographic entities in The
World Factbook that may be categorized as follows:

INDEPENDENT STATES

194 Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon,
Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the
Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana,
Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Holy
See, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kiribati,
North Korea, South Korea, Kosovo, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Latvia,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Federated States of
Micronesia, Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Mozambique,
Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Rwanda,
Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines,
Samoa, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Serbia, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Tajikistan, Tanzania,
Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turkey, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay,
Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe

OTHER

2 Taiwan, European Union

DEPENDENCIES AND AREAS OF SPECIAL SOVEREIGNTY

6 Australia - Ashmore and Cartier Islands, Christmas Island, Cocos
(Keeling) Islands, Coral Sea Islands, Heard Island and McDonald
Islands, Norfolk Island

2 China - Hong Kong, Macau

2 Denmark - Faroe Islands, Greenland

9 France - Clipperton Island, French Polynesia, French Southern and
Antarctic Lands, Mayotte, New Caledonia, Saint Barthelemy, Saint
Martin, Saint Pierre and Miquelon, Wallis and Futuna

2 Netherlands - Aruba, Netherlands Antilles

3 New Zealand - Cook Islands, Niue, Tokelau

3 Norway - Bouvet Island, Jan Mayen, Svalbard

17 UK - Akrotiri, Anguilla, Bermuda, British Indian Ocean Territory,
British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Dhekelia, Falkland Islands,
Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Montserrat, Pitcairn Islands,
Saint Helena, South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, Turks and
Caicos Islands

14 US - American Samoa, Baker Island*, Guam, Howland Island*, Jarvis
Island*, Johnston Atoll*, Kingman Reef*, Midway Islands*, Navassa
Island, Northern Mariana Islands, Palmyra Atoll*, Puerto Rico, Virgin
Islands, Wake Island (* consolidated in United States Pacific Island
Wildlife Refuges entry)

MISCELLANEOUS

6 Antarctica, Gaza Strip, Paracel Islands, Spratly Islands, West Bank,
Western Sahara

OTHER ENTITIES

5 oceans - Arctic Ocean, Atlantic Ocean, Indian Ocean, Pacific Ocean,
Southern Ocean

1 World



266 total

Environment - current issues:  This entry lists the most pressing and
important environmental problems. The following terms and abbreviations
are used throughout the entry:

Acidification - the lowering of soil and water pH due to acid
precipitation and deposition usually through precipitation; this
process disrupts ecosystem nutrient flows and may kill freshwater fish
and plants dependent on more neutral or alkaline conditions (see acid
rain).

Acid rain - characterized as containing harmful levels of sulfur
dioxide or nitrogen oxide; acid rain is damaging and potentially deadly
to the earth's fragile ecosystems; acidity is measured using the pH
scale where 7 is neutral, values greater than 7 are considered
alkaline, and values below 5.6 are considered acid precipitation; note
- a pH of 2.4 (the acidity of vinegar) has been measured in rainfall in
New England.

Aerosol - a collection of airborne particles dispersed in a gas, smoke,
or fog.

Afforestation - converting a bare or agricultural space by planting
trees and plants; reforestation involves replanting trees on areas that
have been cut or destroyed by fire.

Asbestos - a naturally occurring soft fibrous mineral commonly used in
fireproofing materials and considered to be highly carcinogenic in
particulate form.

Biodiversity - also biological diversity; the relative number of
species, diverse in form and function, at the genetic, organism,
community, and ecosystem level; loss of biodiversity reduces an
ecosystem's ability to recover from natural or man-induced disruption.

Bio-indicators - a plant or animal species whose presence, abundance,
and health reveal the general condition of its habitat.

Biomass - the total weight or volume of living matter in a given area
or volume.

Carbon cycle - the term used to describe the exchange of carbon (in
various forms, e.g., as carbon dioxide) between the atmosphere, ocean,
terrestrial biosphere, and geological deposits.

Catchments - assemblages used to capture and retain rainwater and
runoff; an important water management technique in areas with limited
freshwater resources, such as Gibraltar.

DDT (dichloro-diphenyl-trichloro-ethane) - a colorless, odorless
insecticide that has toxic effects on most animals; the use of DDT was
banned in the US in 1972.

Defoliants - chemicals which cause plants to lose their leaves
artificially; often used in agricultural practices for weed control,
and may have detrimental impacts on human and ecosystem health.

Deforestation - the destruction of vast areas of forest (e.g.,
unsustainable forestry practices, agricultural and range land clearing,
and the over exploitation of wood products for use as fuel) without
planting new growth.

Desertification - the spread of desert-like conditions in arid or semi-
arid areas, due to overgrazing, loss of agriculturally productive
soils, or climate change.

Dredging - the practice of deepening an existing waterway; also, a
technique used for collecting bottom-dwelling marine organisms (e.g.,
shellfish) or harvesting coral, often causing significant destruction
of reef and ocean-floor ecosystems.

Drift-net fishing - done with a net, miles in extent, that is generally
anchored to a boat and left to float with the tide; often results in an
over harvesting and waste of large populations of non-commercial marine
species (by-catch) by its effect of "sweeping the ocean clean."

Ecosystems - ecological units comprised of complex communities of
organisms and their specific environments.

Effluents - waste materials, such as smoke, sewage, or industrial waste
which are released into the environment, subsequently polluting it.

Endangered species - a species that is threatened with extinction
either by direct hunting or habitat destruction.

Freshwater - water with very low soluble mineral content; sources
include lakes, streams, rivers, glaciers, and underground aquifers.

Greenhouse gas - a gas that "traps" infrared radiation in the lower
atmosphere causing surface warming; water vapor, carbon dioxide,
nitrous oxide, methane, hydrofluorocarbons, and ozone are the primary
greenhouse gases in the Earth's atmosphere.

Groundwater - water sources found below the surface of the earth often
in naturally occurring reservoirs in permeable rock strata; the source
for wells and natural springs.

Highlands Water Project - a series of dams constructed jointly by
Lesotho and South Africa to redirect Lesotho's abundant water supply
into a rapidly growing area in South Africa; while it is the largest
infrastructure project in southern Africa, it is also the most costly
and controversial; objections to the project include claims that it
forces people from their homes, submerges farmlands, and squanders
economic resources.

Inuit Circumpolar Conference (ICC) - represents the 145,000 Inuits of
Russia, Alaska, Canada, and Greenland in international environmental
issues; a General Assembly convenes every three years to determine the
focus of the ICC; the most current concerns are long-range transport of
pollutants, sustainable development, and climate change.

Metallurgical plants - industries which specialize in the science,
technology, and processing of metals; these plants produce highly
concentrated and toxic wastes which can contribute to pollution of
ground water and air when not properly disposed.

Noxious substances - injurious, very harmful to living beings.

Overgrazing - the grazing of animals on plant material faster than it
can naturally regrow leading to the permanent loss of plant cover, a
common effect of too many animals grazing limited range land.

Ozone shield - a layer of the atmosphere composed of ozone gas (O3)
that resides approximately 25 miles above the Earth's surface and
absorbs solar ultraviolet radiation that can be harmful to living
organisms.

Poaching - the illegal killing of animals or fish, a great concern with
respect to endangered or threatened species.

Pollution - the contamination of a healthy environment by man-made
waste.

Potable water - water that is drinkable, safe to be consumed.

Salination - the process through which fresh (drinkable) water becomes
salt (undrinkable) water; hence, desalination is the reverse process;
also involves the accumulation of salts in topsoil caused by
evaporation of excessive irrigation water, a process that can
eventually render soil incapable of supporting crops.

Siltation - occurs when water channels and reservoirs become clotted
with silt and mud, a side effect of deforestation and soil erosion.

Slash-and-burn agriculture - a rotating cultivation technique in which
trees are cut down and burned in order to clear land for temporary
agriculture; the land is used until its productivity declines at which
point a new plot is selected and the process repeats; this practice is
sustainable while population levels are low and time is permitted for
regrowth of natural vegetation; conversely, where these conditions do
not exist, the practice can have disastrous consequences for the
environment.

Soil degradation - damage to the land's productive capacity because of
poor agricultural practices such as the excessive use of pesticides or
fertilizers, soil compaction from heavy equipment, or erosion of
topsoil, eventually resulting in reduced ability to produce
agricultural products.

Soil erosion - the removal of soil by the action of water or wind,
compounded by poor agricultural practices, deforestation, overgrazing,
and desertification.

Ultraviolet (UV) radiation - a portion of the electromagnetic energy
emitted by the sun and naturally filtered in the upper atmosphere by
the ozone layer; UV radiation can be harmful to living organisms and
has been linked to increasing rates of skin cancer in humans.

Waterborne diseases - those in which bacteria survive in, and are
transmitted through, water; always a serious threat in areas with an
untreated water supply.

Environment - international agreements:  This entry separates country
participation in international environmental agreements into two levels
- party to and signed, but not ratified. Agreements are listed in
alphabetical order by the abbreviated form of the full name.

Environmental agreements:  This information is presented in Appendix C:
Selected International Environmental Agreements, which includes the
name, abbreviation, date opened for signature, date entered into force,
objective, and parties by category.

Ethnic groups:  This entry provides an ordered listing of ethnic groups
starting with the largest and normally includes the percent of total
population.

Exchange rates:  This entry provides the official value of a country's
monetary unit at a given date or over a given period of time, as
expressed in units of local currency per US dollar and as determined by
international market forces or official fiat. The International
Organization for Standardization (ISO) 4217 alphabetic currency code
for the national medium of exchange is presented in parenthesis.

Executive branch:  This entry includes several subfields. Chief of
state includes the name and title of the titular leader of the country
who represents the state at official and ceremonial functions but may
not be involved with the day-to-day activities of the government. Head
of government includes the name and title of the top administrative
leader who is designated to manage the day-to-day activities of the
government. For example, in the UK, the monarch is the chief of state,
and the prime minister is the head of government. In the US, the
president is both the chief of state and the head of government.
Cabinet includes the official name for this body of high-ranking
advisers and the method for selection of members. Elections include the
nature of election process or accession to power, date of the last
election, and date of the next election. Election results includes the
percent of vote for each candidate in the last election.

Exports:  This entry provides the total US dollar amount of merchandise
exports on an f.o.b. (free on board) basis. These figures are
calculated on an exchange rate basis, i.e., not in purchasing power
parity (PPP) terms.

Exports - commodities:  This entry provides a listing of the highest-
valued exported products; it sometimes includes the percent of total
dollar value.

Exports - partners:  This entry provides a rank ordering of trading
partners starting with the most important; it sometimes includes the
percent of total dollar value.

Flag description:  This entry provides a written flag description
produced from actual flags or the best information available at the
time the entry was written. The flags of independent states are used by
their dependencies unless there is an officially recognized local flag.
Some disputed and other areas do not have flags.

Flag graphic:  Most versions of the Factbook include a color flag at
the beginning of the country profile. The flag graphics were produced
from actual flags or the best information available at the time of
preparation. The flags of independent states are used by their
dependencies unless there is an officially recognized local flag. Some
disputed and other areas do not have flags.

Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):  This entry
provides the annual quantity of water in cubic kilometers removed from
available sources for use in any purpose. Water drawn-off is not
necessarily entirely consumed and some portion may be returned for
further use downstream. Domestic sector use refers to water supplied by
public distribution systems. Note that some of this total may be used
for small industrial and/or limited agricultural purposes. Industrial
sector use is the quantity of water used by self-supplied industries
not connected to a public distribution system. Agricultural sector use
includes water used for irrigation and livestock watering, and does not
account for agriculture directly dependent on rainfall. Included are
figures for total annual water withdrawal and per capita water
withdrawal.

GDP (official exchange rate):  This entry gives the gross domestic
product (GDP) or value of all final goods and services produced within
a nation in a given year. A nation's GDP at official exchange rates
(OER) is the home-currency-denominated annual GDP figure divided by the
bilateral average US exchange rate with that country in that year. The
measure is simple to compute and gives a precise measure of the value
of output. Many economists prefer this measure when gauging the
economic power an economy maintains vis-à-vis its neighbors, judging
that an exchange rate captures the purchasing power a nation enjoys in
the international marketplace. Official exchange rates, however, can be
artificially fixed and/or subject to manipulation - resulting in claims
of the country having an under- or over-valued currency - and are not
necessarily the equivalent of a market-determined exchange rate.
Moreover, even if the official exchange rate is market-determined,
market exchange rates are frequently established by a relatively small
set of goods and services (the ones the country trades) and may not
capture the value of the larger set of goods the country produces.
Furthermore, OER-converted GDP is not well suited to comparing domestic
GDP over time, since appreciation/depreciation from one year to the
next will make the OER GDP value rise/fall regardless of whether home-
currency-denominated GDP changed.

GDP (purchasing power parity):  This entry gives the gross domestic
product (GDP) or value of all final goods and services produced within
a nation in a given year. A nation's GDP at purchasing power parity
(PPP) exchange rates is the sum value of all goods and services
produced in the country valued at prices prevailing in the United
States. This is the measure most economists prefer when looking at per-
capita welfare and when comparing living conditions or use of resources
across countries. The measure is difficult to compute, as a US dollar
value has to be assigned to all goods and services in the country
regardless of whether these goods and services have a direct equivalent
in the United States (for example, the value of an ox-cart or non-US
military equipment); as a result, PPP estimates for some countries are
based on a small and sometimes different set of goods and services. In
addition, many countries do not formally participate in the World
Bank's PPP project that calculates these measures, so the resulting GDP
estimates for these countries may lack precision. For many developing
countries, PPP-based GDP measures are multiples of the official
exchange rate (OER) measure. The difference between the OER- and PPP-
denominated GDP values for most of the wealthy industrialized countries
are generally much smaller.

GDP - composition by sector:  This entry gives the percentage
contribution of agriculture, industry, and services to total GDP. The
distribution will total less than 100 percent if the data are
incomplete.

GDP - per capita (PPP):  This entry shows GDP on a purchasing power
parity basis divided by population as of 1 July for the same year.

GDP - real growth rate:  This entry gives GDP growth on an annual basis
adjusted for inflation and expressed as a percent.

GDP methodology:  In the Economy category, GDP dollar estimates for
countries are reported both on an official exchange rate (OER) and a
purchasing power parity (PPP) basis. Both measures contain information
that is useful to the reader. The PPP method involves the use of
standardized international dollar price weights, which are applied to
the quantities of final goods and services produced in a given economy.
The data derived from the PPP method probably provide the best
available starting point for comparisons of economic strength and well-
being between countries. In contrast, the currency exchange rate method
involves a variety of international and domestic financial forces that
may not capture the value of domestic output. Whereas PPP estimates for
OECD countries are quite reliable, PPP estimates for developing
countries are often rough approximations. In developing countries with
weak currencies, the exchange rate estimate of GDP in dollars is
typically one-fourth to one-half the PPP estimate. Most of the GDP
estimates for developing countries are based on extrapolation of PPP
numbers published by the UN International Comparison Program (UNICP)
and by Professors Robert Summers and Alan Heston of the University of
Pennsylvania and their colleagues. GDP derived using the OER method
should be used for the purpose of calculating the share of items such
as exports, imports, military expenditures, external debt, or the
current account balance, because the dollar values presented in the
Factbook for these items have been converted at official exchange
rates, not at PPP. One should use the OER GDP figure to calculate the
proportion of, say, Chinese defense expenditures in GDP, because that
share will be the same as one calculated in local currency units.
Comparison of OER GDP with PPP GDP may also indicate whether a currency
is over- or under-valued. If OER GDP is smaller than PPP GDP, the
official exchange rate may be undervalued, and vice versa. However,
there is no strong historical evidence that market exchange rates move
in the direction implied by the PPP rate, at least not in the short- or
medium-term. Note: the numbers for GDP and other economic data should
not be chained together from successive volumes of the Factbook because
of changes in the US dollar measuring rod, revisions of data by
statistical agencies, use of new or different sources of information,
and changes in national statistical methods and practices.

GNP:  Gross national product (GNP) is the value of all final goods and
services produced within a nation in a given year, plus income earned
by its citizens abroad, minus income earned by foreigners from domestic
production. The Factbook, following current practice, uses GDP rather
than GNP to measure national production. However, the user must realize
that in certain countries net remittances from citizens working abroad
may be important to national well-being.

GWP:  This entry gives the gross world product (GWP) or aggregate value
of all final goods and services produced worldwide in a given year.

Geographic coordinates:  This entry includes rounded latitude and
longitude figures for the purpose of finding the approximate geographic
center of an entity and is based on the locations provided in the
Geographic Names Server (GNS), maintained by the National Geospatial-
Intelligence Agency on behalf of the US Board on Geographic Names.

Geographic names:  This information is presented in Appendix F: Cross-
Reference List of Geographic Names. It includes a listing of various
alternate names, former names, local names, and regional names
referenced to one or more related Factbook entries. Spellings are
normally, but not always, those approved by the US Board on Geographic
Names (BGN). Alternate names and additional information are included in
parentheses.

Geography:  This category includes the entries dealing with the natural
environment and the effects of human activity.

Geography - note:  This entry includes miscellaneous geographic
information of significance not included elsewhere.

Gini index:  See entry for Distribution of family income - Gini index

Government:  This category includes the entries dealing with the system
for the adoption and administration of public policy.

Government - note:  This entry includes miscellaneous government
information of significance not included elsewhere.

Government type:  This entry gives the basic form of government.
Definitions of the major governmental terms are as follows. (Note that
for some countries more than one definition applies.):

Absolute monarchy - a form of government where the monarch rules
unhindered, i.e., without any laws, constitution, or legally organized
opposition.

Anarchy - a condition of lawlessness or political disorder brought
about by the absence of governmental authority.

Authoritarian - a form of government in which state authority is
imposed onto many aspects of citizens' lives.

Commonwealth - a nation, state, or other political entity founded on
law and united by a compact of the people for the common good.

Communist - a system of government in which the state plans and
controls the economy and a single - often authoritarian - party holds
power; state controls are imposed with the elimination of private
ownership of property or capital while claiming to make progress toward
a higher social order in which all goods are equally shared by the
people (i.e., a classless society).

Confederacy (Confederation) - a union by compact or treaty between
states, provinces, or territories, that creates a central government
with limited powers; the constituent entities retain supreme authority
over all matters except those delegated to the central government.

Constitutional - a government by or operating under an authoritative
document (constitution) that sets forth the system of fundamental laws
and principles that determines the nature, functions, and limits of
that government.

Constitutional democracy - a form of government in which the sovereign
power of the people is spelled out in a governing constitution.

Constitutional monarchy - a system of government in which a monarch is
guided by a constitution whereby his/her rights, duties, and
responsibilities are spelled out in written law or by custom.

Democracy - a form of government in which the supreme power is retained
by the people, but which is usually exercised indirectly through a
system of representation and delegated authority periodically renewed.

Democratic republic - a state in which the supreme power rests in the
body of citizens entitled to vote for officers and representatives
responsible to them.

Dictatorship - a form of government in which a ruler or small clique
wield absolute power (not restricted by a constitution or laws).

Ecclesiastical - a government administrated by a church.

Emirate - similar to a monarchy or sultanate, but a government in which
the supreme power is in the hands of an emir (the ruler of a Muslim
state); the emir may be an absolute overlord or a sovereign with
constitutionally limited authority.

Federal (Federation) - a form of government in which sovereign power is
formally divided - usually by means of a constitution - between a
central authority and a number of constituent regions (states,
colonies, or provinces) so that each region retains some management of
its internal affairs; differs from a confederacy in that the central
government exerts influence directly upon both individuals as well as
upon the regional units.

Federal republic - a state in which the powers of the central
government are restricted and in which the component parts (states,
colonies, or provinces) retain a degree of self-government; ultimate
sovereign power rests with the voters who chose their governmental
representatives.

Islamic republic - a particular form of government adopted by some
Muslim states; although such a state is, in theory, a theocracy, it
remains a republic, but its laws are required to be compatible with the
laws of Islam.

Maoism - the theory and practice of Marxism-Leninism developed in China
by Mao Zedong (Mao Tse-tung), which states that a continuous revolution
is necessary if the leaders of a communist state are to keep in touch
with the people.

Marxism - the political, economic, and social principles espoused by
19th century economist Karl Marx; he viewed the struggle of workers as
a progression of historical forces that would proceed from a class
struggle of the proletariat (workers) exploited by capitalists
(business owners), to a socialist "dictatorship of the proletariat,"
to, finally, a classless society - Communism.

Marxism-Leninism - an expanded form of communism developed by Lenin
from doctrines of Karl Marx; Lenin saw imperialism as the final stage
of capitalism and shifted the focus of workers' struggle from developed
to underdeveloped countries.

Monarchy - a government in which the supreme power is lodged in the
hands of a monarch who reigns over a state or territory, usually for
life and by hereditary right; the monarch may be either a sole absolute
ruler or a sovereign - such as a king, queen, or prince - with
constitutionally limited authority.

Oligarchy - a government in which control is exercised by a small group
of individuals whose authority generally is based on wealth or power.

Parliamentary democracy - a political system in which the legislature
(parliament) selects the government - a prime minister, premier, or
chancellor along with the cabinet ministers - according to party
strength as expressed in elections; by this system, the government
acquires a dual responsibility: to the people as well as to the
parliament.

Parliamentary government (Cabinet-Parliamentary government) - a
government in which members of an executive branch (the cabinet and its
leader - a prime minister, premier, or chancellor) are nominated to
their positions by a legislature or parliament, and are directly
responsible to it; this type of government can be dissolved at will by
the parliament (legislature) by means of a no confidence vote or the
leader of the cabinet may dissolve the parliament if it can no longer
function.

Parliamentary monarchy - a state headed by a monarch who is not
actively involved in policy formation or implementation (i.e., the
exercise of sovereign powers by a monarch in a ceremonial capacity);
true governmental leadership is carried out by a cabinet and its head -
a prime minister, premier, or chancellor - who are drawn from a
legislature (parliament).

Presidential - a system of government where the executive branch exists
separately from a legislature (to which it is generally not
accountable).

Republic - a representative democracy in which the people's elected
deputies (representatives), not the people themselves, vote on
legislation.

Socialism - a government in which the means of planning, producing, and
distributing goods is controlled by a central government that
theoretically seeks a more just and equitable distribution of property
and labor; in actuality, most socialist governments have ended up being
no more than dictatorships over workers by a ruling elite.

Sultanate - similar to a monarchy, but a government in which the
supreme power is in the hands of a sultan (the head of a Muslim state);
the sultan may be an absolute ruler or a sovereign with
constitutionally limited authority.

Theocracy - a form of government in which a Deity is recognized as the
supreme civil ruler, but the Deity's laws are interpreted by
ecclesiastical authorities (bishops, mullahs, etc.); a government
subject to religious authority.

Totalitarian - a government that seeks to subordinate the individual to
the state by controlling not only all political and economic matters,
but also the attitudes, values, and beliefs of its population.

Greenwich Mean Time (GMT):  The mean solar time at the Greenwich
Meridian, Greenwich, England, with the hours and days, since 1925,
reckoned from midnight. GMT is now a historical term having been
replaced by UTC on 1 January 1972. See Coordinated Universal Time.

Gross domestic product:  see GDP

Gross national product:  see GNP

Gross world product:  see GWP

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:  This entry gives an estimate of the
percentage of adults (aged 15-49) living with HIV/AIDS. The adult
prevalence rate is calculated by dividing the estimated number of
adults living with HIV/AIDS at yearend by the total adult population at
yearend.

HIV/AIDS - deaths:  This entry gives an estimate of the number of
adults and children who died of AIDS during a given calendar year.

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:  This entry gives an estimate
of all people (adults and children) alive at yearend with HIV
infection, whether or not they have developed symptoms of AIDS.

Heliports:  This entry gives the total number of heliports with hard-
surface runways, helipads, or landing areas that support routine
sustained helicopter operations exclusively and have support facilities
including one or more of the following facilities: lighting, fuel,
passenger handling, or maintenance. It includes former airports used
exclusively for helicopter operations but excludes heliports limited to
day operations and natural clearings that could support helicopter
landings and takeoffs.

Household income or consumption by percentage share:  Data on household
income or consumption come from household surveys, the results adjusted
for household size. Nations use different standards and procedures in
collecting and adjusting the data. Surveys based on income will
normally show a more unequal distribution than surveys based on
consumption. The quality of surveys is improving with time, yet caution
is still necessary in making inter-country comparisons.

Hydrographic data codes:  see Data codes

Illicit drugs:  This entry gives information on the five categories of
illicit drugs - narcotics, stimulants, depressants (sedatives),
hallucinogens, and cannabis. These categories include many drugs
legally produced and prescribed by doctors as well as those illegally
produced and sold outside of medical channels.

Cannabis (Cannabis sativa) is the common hemp plant, which provides
hallucinogens with some sedative properties, and includes marijuana
(pot, Acapulco gold, grass, reefer), tetrahydrocannabinol (THC,
Marinol), hashish (hash), and hashish oil (hash oil).

Coca (mostly Erythroxylum coca) is a bush with leaves that contain the
stimulant used to make cocaine. Coca is not to be confused with cocoa,
which comes from cacao seeds and is used in making chocolate, cocoa,
and cocoa butter.

Cocaine is a stimulant derived from the leaves of the coca bush.

Depressants (sedatives) are drugs that reduce tension and anxiety and
include chloral hydrate, barbiturates (Amytal, Nembutal, Seconal,
phenobarbital), benzodiazepines (Librium, Valium), methaqualone
(Quaalude), glutethimide (Doriden), and others (Equanil, Placidyl,
Valmid).

Drugs are any chemical substances that effect a physical, mental,
emotional, or behavioral change in an individual.

Drug abuse is the use of any licit or illicit chemical substance that
results in physical, mental, emotional, or behavioral impairment in an
individual.

Hallucinogens are drugs that affect sensation, thinking, self-
awareness, and emotion. Hallucinogens include LSD (acid, microdot),
mescaline and peyote (mexc, buttons, cactus), amphetamine variants
(PMA, STP, DOB), phencyclidine (PCP, angel dust, hog), phencyclidine
analogues (PCE, PCPy, TCP), and others (psilocybin, psilocyn).

Hashish is the resinous exudate of the cannabis or hemp plant (Cannabis
sativa).

Heroin is a semisynthetic derivative of morphine.

Mandrax is a trade name for methaqualone, a pharmaceutical depressant.

Marijuana is the dried leaf of the cannabis or hemp plant (Cannabis
sativa).

Methaqualone is a pharmaceutical depressant, referred to as mandrax in
Southwest Asia and Africa.

Narcotics are drugs that relieve pain, often induce sleep, and refer to
opium, opium derivatives, and synthetic substitutes. Natural narcotics
include opium (paregoric, parepectolin), morphine (MS-Contin, Roxanol),
codeine (Tylenol with codeine, Empirin with codeine, Robitussin AC),
and thebaine. Semisynthetic narcotics include heroin (horse, smack),
and hydromorphone (Dilaudid). Synthetic narcotics include meperidine or
Pethidine (Demerol, Mepergan), methadone (Dolophine, Methadose), and
others (Darvon, Lomotil).

Opium is the brown, gummy exudate of the incised, unripe seedpod of the
opium poppy.

Opium poppy (Papaver somniferum) is the source for the natural and
semisynthetic narcotics.

Poppy straw is the entire cut and dried opium poppy-plant material,
other than the seeds. Opium is extracted from poppy straw in commercial
operations that produce the drug for medical use.

Qat (kat, khat) is a stimulant from the buds or leaves of Catha edulis
that is chewed or drunk as tea.

Quaaludes is the North American slang term for methaqualone, a
pharmaceutical depressant.

Stimulants are drugs that relieve mild depression, increase energy and
activity, and include cocaine (coke, snow, crack), amphetamines
(Desoxyn, Dexedrine), ephedrine, ecstasy (clarity, essence, doctor,
Adam), phenmetrazine (Preludin), methylphenidate (Ritalin), and others
(Cylert, Sanorex, Tenuate).

Imports:  This entry provides the total US dollar amount of merchandise
imports on a c.i.f. (cost, insurance, and freight) or f.o.b. (free on
board) basis. These figures are calculated on an exchange rate basis,
i.e., not in purchasing power parity (PPP) terms.

Imports - commodities:  This entry provides a listing of the highest-
valued imported products; it sometimes includes the percent of total
dollar value.

Imports - partners:  This entry provides a rank ordering of trading
partners starting with the most important; it sometimes includes the
percent of total dollar value.

Independence:  For most countries, this entry gives the date that
sovereignty was achieved and from which nation, empire, or trusteeship.
For the other countries, the date given may not represent
"independence" in the strict sense, but rather some significant
nationhood event such as the traditional founding date or the date of
unification, federation, confederation, establishment, fundamental
change in the form of government, or state succession. Dependent areas
include the notation "none" followed by the nature of their dependency
status. Also see the Terminology note.

Industrial production growth rate:  This entry gives the annual
percentage increase in industrial production (includes manufacturing,
mining, and construction).

Industries:  This entry provides a rank ordering of industries starting
with the largest by value of annual output.

Infant mortality rate:  This entry gives the number of deaths of
infants under one year old in a given year per 1,000 live births in the
same year; included is the total death rate, and deaths by sex, male
and female. This rate is often used as an indicator of the level of
health in a country.

Inflation rate (consumer prices):  This entry furnishes the annual
percent change in consumer prices compared with the previous year's
consumer prices.

International disputes:  see Disputes - international

International organization participation:  This entry lists in
alphabetical order by abbreviation those international organizations in
which the subject country is a member or participates in some other
way.

International organizations:  This information is presented in Appendix
B: International Organizations and Groups which includes the name,
abbreviation, date established, aim, and members by category.

Internet country code:  This entry includes the two-letter codes
maintained by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO)
in the ISO 3166 Alpha-2 list and used by the Internet Assigned Numbers
Authority (IANA) to establish country-coded top-level domains (ccTLDs).

Internet hosts:  This entry lists the number of Internet hosts
available within a country. An Internet host is a computer connected
directly to the Internet; normally an Internet Service Provider's (ISP)
computer is a host. Internet users may use either a hard-wired
terminal, at an institution with a mainframe computer connected
directly to the Internet, or may connect remotely by way of a modem via
telephone line, cable, or satellite to the Internet Service Provider's
host computer. The number of hosts is one indicator of the extent of
Internet connectivity.

Internet users:  This entry gives the number of users within a country
that access the Internet. Statistics vary from country to country and
may include users who access the Internet at least several times a week
to those who access it only once within a period of several months.

Introduction:  This category includes one entry, Background.

Investment (gross fixed):  This entry records total business spending
on fixed assets, such as factories, machinery, equipment, dwellings,
and inventories of raw materials, which provide the basis for future
production. It is measured gross of the depreciation of the assets,
i.e., it includes investment that merely replaces worn-out or scrapped
capital.

Irrigated land:  This entry gives the number of square kilometers of
land area that is artificially supplied with water.

Judicial branch:  This entry contains the name(s) of the highest
court(s) and a brief description of the selection process for members.

Labor force:  This entry contains the total labor force figure.

Labor force - by occupation:  This entry lists the percentage
distribution of the labor force by occupation. The distribution will
total less than 100 percent if the data are incomplete.

Land boundaries:  This entry contains the total length of all land
boundaries and the individual lengths for each of the contiguous border
countries. When available, official lengths published by national
statistical agencies are used. Because surveying methods may differ,
country border lengths reported by contiguous countries may differ.

Land use:  This entry contains the percentage shares of total land area
for three different types of land use: arable land - land cultivated
for crops like wheat, maize, and rice that are replanted after each
harvest; permanent crops - land cultivated for crops like citrus,
coffee, and rubber that are not replanted after each harvest; includes
land under flowering shrubs, fruit trees, nut trees, and vines, but
excludes land under trees grown for wood or timber; other - any land
not arable or under permanent crops; includes permanent meadows and
pastures, forests and woodlands, built-on areas, roads, barren land,
etc.

Languages:  This entry provides a rank ordering of languages starting
with the largest and sometimes includes the percent of total population
speaking that language.

Legal system:  This entry contains a brief description of the legal
system's historical roots, role in government, and acceptance of
International Court of Justice (ICJ) jurisdiction.

Legislative branch:  This entry contains information on the structure
(unicameral, bicameral, tricameral), formal name, number of seats, and
term of office. Elections includes the nature of election process or
accession to power, date of the last election, and date of the next
election. Election results includes the percent of vote and/or number
of seats held by each party in the last election.

Life expectancy at birth:  This entry contains the average number of
years to be lived by a group of people born in the same year, if
mortality at each age remains constant in the future. The entry
includes total population as well as the male and female components.
Life expectancy at birth is also a measure of overall quality of life
in a country and summarizes the mortality at all ages. It can also be
thought of as indicating the potential return on investment in human
capital and is necessary for the calculation of various actuarial
measures.

Literacy:  This entry includes a definition of literacy and Census
Bureau percentages for the total population, males, and females. There
are no universal definitions and standards of literacy. Unless
otherwise specified, all rates are based on the most common definition
- the ability to read and write at a specified age. Detailing the
standards that individual countries use to assess the ability to read
and write is beyond the scope of the Factbook. Information on literacy,
while not a perfect measure of educational results, is probably the
most easily available and valid for international comparisons. Low
levels of literacy, and education in general, can impede the economic
development of a country in the current rapidly changing, technology-
driven world.

Location:  This entry identifies the country's regional location,
neighboring countries, and adjacent bodies of water.

Major infectious diseases:  This entry lists major infectious diseases
likely to be encountered in countries where the risk of such diseases
is assessed to be very high as compared to the United States. These
infectious diseases represent risks to US government personnel
traveling to the specified country for a period of less than three
years. The degree of risk is assessed by considering the foreign nature
of these infectious diseases, their severity, and the probability of
being affected by the diseases present. The diseases listed do not
necessarily represent the total disease burden experienced by the local
population.

The risk to an individual traveler varies considerably by the specific
location, visit duration, type of activities, type of accommodations,
time of year, and other factors. Consultation with a travel medicine
physician is needed to evaluate individual risk and recommend
appropriate preventive measures such as vaccines.

Diseases are organized into the following six exposure categories shown
in italics and listed in typical descending order of risk. Note: The
sequence of exposure categories listed in individual country entries
may vary according to local conditions.

food or waterborne diseases acquired through eating or drinking on the
local economy:

Hepatitis A - viral disease that interferes with the functioning of the
liver; spread through consumption of food or water contaminated with
fecal matter, principally in areas of poor sanitation; victims exhibit
fever, jaundice, and diarrhea; 15% of victims will experience prolonged
symptoms over 6-9 months; vaccine available.

Hepatitis E - water-borne viral disease that interferes with the
functioning of the liver; most commonly spread through fecal
contamination of drinking water; victims exhibit jaundice, fatigue,
abdominal pain, and dark colored urine.

Typhoid fever - bacterial disease spread through contact with food or
water contaminated by fecal matter or sewage; victims exhibit sustained
high fevers; left untreated, mortality rates can reach 20%.

vectorborne diseases acquired through the bite of an infected
arthropod:

Malaria - caused by single-cell parasitic protozoa Plasmodium;
transmitted to humans via the bite of the female Anopheles mosquito;
parasites multiply in the liver attacking red blood cells resulting in
cycles of fever, chills, and sweats accompanied by anemia; death due to
damage to vital organs and interruption of blood supply to the brain;
endemic in 100, mostly tropical, countries with 90% of cases and the
majority of 1.5-2.5 million estimated annual deaths occurring in sub-
Saharan Africa.

Dengue fever - mosquito-borne (Aedes aegypti) viral disease associated
with urban environments; manifests as sudden onset of fever and severe
headache; occasionally produces shock and hemorrhage leading to death
in 5% of cases.

Yellow fever - mosquito-borne viral disease; severity ranges from
influenza-like symptoms to severe hepatitis and hemorrhagic fever;
occurs only in tropical South America and sub-Saharan Africa, where
most cases are reported; fatality rate is less than 20%.

Japanese Encephalitis - mosquito-borne (Culex tritaeniorhynchus) viral
disease associated with rural areas in Asia; acute encephalitis can
progress to paralysis, coma, and death; fatality rates 30%.

African Trypanosomiasis - caused by the parasitic protozoa Trypanosoma;
transmitted to humans via the bite of bloodsucking Tsetse flies;
infection leads to malaise and irregular fevers and, in advanced cases
when the parasites invade the central nervous system, coma and death;
endemic in 36 countries of sub-Saharan Africa; cattle and wild animals
act as reservoir hosts for the parasites.

Cutaneous Leishmaniasis - caused by the parasitic protozoa leishmania;
transmitted to humans via the bite of sandflies; results in skin
lesions that may become chronic; endemic in 88 countries; 90% of cases
occur in Iran, Afghanistan, Syria, Saudi Arabia, Brazil, and Peru; wild
and domesticated animals as well as humans can act as reservoirs of
infection.

Plague - bacterial disease transmitted by fleas normally associated
with rats; person-to-person airborne transmission also possible; recent
plague epidemics occurred in areas of Asia, Africa, and South America
associated with rural areas or small towns and villages; manifests as
fever, headache, and painfully swollen lymph nodes; disease progresses
rapidly and without antibiotic treatment leads to pneumonic form with a
death rate in excess of 50%.

Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever - tick-borne viral disease; infection
may also result from exposure to infected animal blood or tissue;
geographic distribution includes Africa, Asia, the Middle East, and
Eastern Europe; sudden onset of fever, headache, and muscle aches
followed by hemorrhaging in the bowels, urine, nose, and gums;
mortality rate is approximately 30%.

Rift Valley fever - viral disease affecting domesticated animals and
humans; transmission is by mosquito and other biting insects; infection
may also occur through handling of infected meat or contact with blood;
geographic distribution includes eastern and southern Africa where
cattle and sheep are raised; symptoms are generally mild with fever and
some liver abnormalities, but the disease may progress to hemorrhagic
fever, encephalitis, or ocular disease; fatality rates are low at about
1% of cases.

Chikungunya - mosquito-borne (Aedes aegypti) viral disease associated
with urban environments, similar to Dengue Fever; characterized by
sudden onset of fever, rash, and severe joint pain usually lasting 3-7
days, some cases result in persistent arthritis.

water contact diseases acquired through swimming or wading in
freshwater lakes, streams, and rivers:

Leptospirosis - bacterial disease that affects animals and humans;
infection occurs through contact with water, food, or soil contaminated
by animal urine; symptoms include high fever, severe headache,
vomiting, jaundice, and diarrhea; untreated, the disease can result in
kidney damage, liver failure, meningitis, or respiratory distress;
fatality rates are low but left untreated recovery can take months.

Schistosomiasis - caused by parasitic trematode flatworm Schistosoma;
fresh water snails act as intermediate host and release larval form of
parasite that penetrates the skin of people exposed to contaminated
water; worms mature and reproduce in the blood vessels, liver, kidneys,
and intestines releasing eggs, which become trapped in tissues
triggering an immune response; may manifest as either urinary or
intestinal disease resulting in decreased work or learning capacity;
mortality, while generally low, may occur in advanced cases usually due
to bladder cancer; endemic in 74 developing countries with 80% of
infected people living in sub-Saharan Africa; humans act as the
reservoir for this parasite.

aerosolized dust or soil contact disease acquired through inhalation of
aerosols contaminated with rodent urine:

Lassa fever - viral disease carried by rats of the genus Mastomys;
endemic in portions of West Africa; infection occurs through direct
contact with or consumption of food contaminated by rodent urine or
fecal matter containing virus particles; fatality rate can reach 50% in
epidemic outbreaks.

respiratory disease acquired through close contact with an infectious
person:

Meningococcal meningitis - bacterial disease causing an inflammation of
the lining of the brain and spinal cord; one of the most important
bacterial pathogens is Neisseria meningitidis because of its potential
to cause epidemics; symptoms include stiff neck, high fever, headaches,
and vomiting; bacteria are transmitted from person to person by
respiratory droplets and facilitated by close and prolonged contact
resulting from crowded living conditions, often with a seasonal
distribution; death occurs in 5-15% of cases, typically within 24-48
hours of onset of symptoms; highest burden of meningococcal disease
occurs in the hyperendemic region of sub-Saharan Africa known as the
"Meningitis Belt" which stretches from Senegal east to Ethiopia.

animal contact disease acquired through direct contact with local
animals:

Rabies - viral disease of mammals usually transmitted through the bite
of an infected animal, most commonly dogs; virus affects the central
nervous system causing brain alteration and death; symptoms initially
are non-specific fever and headache progressing to neurological
symptoms; death occurs within days of the onset of symptoms.

Manpower available for military service:  This entry gives the number
of males and females falling in the military age range for a country
(defined as being ages 16-49) and assumes that every individual is fit
to serve.

Manpower fit for military service:  This entry gives the number of
males and females falling in the military age range for a country
(defined as being ages 16-49) and who are not otherwise disqualified
for health reasons; accounts for the health situation in the country
and provides a more realistic estimate of the actual number fit to
serve.

Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:  This entry
gives the number of males and females entering the military manpower
pool (i.e., reaching age 16) in any given year and is a measure of the
availability of military-age young adults.

Map references:  This entry includes the name of the Factbook reference
map on which a country may be found. Note that boundary representations
on these maps are not necessarily authoritative. The entry on
Geographic coordinates may be helpful in finding some smaller
countries.

Maritime claims:  This entry includes the following claims, the
definitions of which are excerpted from the United Nations Convention
on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), which alone contains the full and
definitive descriptions:

territorial sea - the sovereignty of a coastal state extends beyond its
land territory and internal waters to an adjacent belt of sea,
described as the territorial sea in the UNCLOS (Part II); this
sovereignty extends to the air space over the territorial sea as well
as its underlying seabed and subsoil; every state has the right to
establish the breadth of its territorial sea up to a limit not
exceeding 12 nautical miles; the normal baseline for measuring the
breadth of the territorial sea is the mean low-water line along the
coast as marked on large-scale charts officially recognized by the
coastal state; the UNCLOS describes specific rules for archipelagic
states.

contiguous zone - according to the UNCLOS (Article 33), this is a zone
contiguous to a coastal state's territorial sea, over which it may
exercise the control necessary to: prevent infringement of its customs,
fiscal, immigration, or sanitary laws and regulations within its
territory or territorial sea; punish infringement of the above laws and
regulations committed within its territory or territorial sea; the
contiguous zone may not extend beyond 24 nautical miles from the
baselines from which the breadth of the territorial sea is measured
(e.g. the US has claimed a 12-nautical mile contiguous zone in addition
to its 12-nautical mile territorial sea).

exclusive economic zone (EEZ) - the UNCLOS (Part V) defines the EEZ as
a zone beyond and adjacent to the territorial sea in which a coastal
state has: sovereign rights for the purpose of exploring and
exploiting, conserving and managing the natural resources, whether
living or non-living, of the waters superjacent to the seabed and of
the seabed and its subsoil, and with regard to other activities for the
economic exploitation and exploration of the zone, such as the
production of energy from the water, currents, and winds; jurisdiction
with regard to the establishment and use of artificial islands,
installations, and structures; marine scientific research; the
protection and preservation of the marine environment; the outer limit
of the exclusive economic zone shall not exceed 200 nautical miles from
the baselines from which the breadth of the territorial sea is
measured.

continental shelf - the UNCLOS (Article 76) defines the continental
shelf of a coastal state as comprising the seabed and subsoil of the
submarine areas that extend beyond its territorial sea throughout the
natural prolongation of its land territory to the outer edge of the
continental margin, or to a distance of 200 nautical miles from the
baselines from which the breadth of the territorial sea is measured
where the outer edge of the continental margin does not extend up to
that distance; the continental margin comprises the submerged
prolongation of the landmass of the coastal state, and consists of the
seabed and subsoil of the shelf, the slope and the rise; wherever the
continental margin extends beyond 200 nautical miles from the baseline,
coastal states may extend their claim to a distance not to exceed 350
nautical miles from the baseline or 100 nautical miles from the 2500
meter isobath; it does not include the deep ocean floor with its
oceanic ridges or the subsoil thereof.

exclusive fishing zone - while this term is not used in the UNCLOS,
some states (e.g., the United Kingdom) have chosen not to claim an EEZ,
but rather to claim jurisdiction over the living resources off their
coast; in such cases, the term exclusive fishing zone is often used;
the breadth of this zone is normally the same as the EEZ or 200
nautical miles.

Market value of publicly traded shares:  This entry gives the value of
shares issued by publicly traded companies at a price determined in the
national stock markets on the final day of the period indicated. It is
simply the latest price per share multiplied by the total number of
outstanding shares, cumulated over all companies listed on the
particular exchange.

Median age:  This entry is the age that divides a population into two
numerically equal groups; that is, half the people are younger than
this age and half are older. It is a single index that summarizes the
age distribution of a population. Currently, the median age ranges from
a low of about 15 in Uganda and Gaza Strip to 40 or more in several
European countries and Japan. See the entry for "Age structure" for the
importance of a young versus an older age structure and, by
implication, a low versus a higher median age.

Merchant marine:  Merchant marine may be defined as all ships engaged
in the carriage of goods; or all commercial vessels (as opposed to all
nonmilitary ships), which excludes tugs, fishing vessels, offshore oil
rigs, etc. This entry contains information in four fields - total,
ships by type, foreign-owned, and registered in other countries.

Total includes the number of ships (1,000 GRT or over), total DWT for
those ships, and total GRT for those ships. DWT or dead weight tonnage
is the total weight of cargo, plus bunkers, stores, etc., that a ship
can carry when immersed to the appropriate load line. GRT or gross
register tonnage is a figure obtained by measuring the entire sheltered
volume of a ship available for cargo and passengers and converting it
to tons on the basis of 100 cubic feet per ton; there is no stable
relationship between GRT and DWT.

Ships by type includes a listing of barge carriers, bulk cargo ships,
cargo ships, chemical tankers, combination bulk carriers, combination
ore/oil carriers, container ships, liquefied gas tankers, livestock
carriers, multifunctional large-load carriers, petroleum tankers,
passenger ships, passenger/cargo ships, railcar carriers, refrigerated
cargo ships, roll-on/roll-off cargo ships, short-sea passenger ships,
specialized tankers, and vehicle carriers.

Foreign-owned are ships that fly the flag of one country but belong to
owners in another.

Registered in other countries are ships that belong to owners in one
country but fly the flag of another.

Military:  This category includes the entries dealing with a country's
military structure, manpower, and expenditures.

Military - note:  This entry includes miscellaneous military
information of significance not included elsewhere.

Military branches:  This entry lists the service branches subordinate
to defense ministries or the equivalent (typically ground, naval, air,
and marine forces).

Military expenditures:  This entry gives spending on defense programs
for the most recent year available as a percent of gross domestic
product (GDP); the GDP is calculated on an exchange rate basis, i.e.,
not in terms of purchasing power parity (PPP).

Military service age and obligation:  This entry gives the required
ages for voluntary or conscript military service and the length of
service obligation.

Money figures:  All money figures are expressed in contemporaneous US
dollars unless otherwise indicated.

National holiday:  This entry gives the primary national day of
celebration - usually independence day.

Nationality:  This entry provides the identifying terms for citizens -
noun and adjective.

Natural gas - consumption:  This entry is the total natural gas
consumed in cubic meters (cu m). The discrepancy between the amount of
natural gas produced and/or imported and the amount consumed and/or
exported is due to the omission of stock changes and other complicating
factors.

Natural gas - exports:  This entry is the total natural gas exported in
cubic meters (cu m).

Natural gas - imports:  This entry is the total natural gas imported in
cubic meters (cu m).

Natural gas - production:  This entry is the total natural gas produced
in cubic meters (cu m). The discrepancy between the amount of natural
gas produced and/or imported and the amount consumed and/or exported is
due to the omission of stock changes and other complicating factors.

Natural gas - proved reserves:  This entry is the stock of proved
reserves of natural gas in cubic meters (cu m). Proved reserves are
those quantities of natural gas, which, by analysis of geological and
engineering data, can be estimated with a high degree of confidence to
be commercially recoverable from a given date forward, from known
reservoirs and under current economic conditions.

Natural hazards:  This entry lists potential natural disasters.

Natural resources:  This entry lists a country's mineral, petroleum,
hydropower, and other resources of commercial importance.

Net migration rate:  This entry includes the figure for the difference
between the number of persons entering and leaving a country during the
year per 1,000 persons (based on midyear population). An excess of
persons entering the country is referred to as net immigration (e.g.,
3.56 migrants/1,000 population); an excess of persons leaving the
country as net emigration (e.g., -9.26 migrants/1,000 population). The
net migration rate indicates the contribution of migration to the
overall level of population change. High levels of migration can cause
problems such as increasing unemployment and potential ethnic strife
(if people are coming in) or a reduction in the labor force, perhaps in
certain key sectors (if people are leaving).

Oil - consumption:  This entry is the total oil consumed in barrels per
day (bbl/day). The discrepancy between the amount of oil produced
and/or imported and the amount consumed and/or exported is due to the
omission of stock changes, refinery gains, and other complicating
factors.

Oil - exports:  This entry is the total oil exported in barrels per day
(bbl/day), including both crude oil and oil products.

Oil - imports:  This entry is the total oil imported in barrels per day
(bbl/day), including both crude oil and oil products.

Oil - production:  This entry is the total oil produced in barrels per
day (bbl/day). The discrepancy between the amount of oil produced
and/or imported and the amount consumed and/or exported is due to the
omission of stock changes, refinery gains, and other complicating
factors.

Oil - proved reserves:  This entry is the stock of proved reserves of
crude oil in barrels (bbl). Proved reserves are those quantities of
petroleum which, by analysis of geological and engineering data, can be
estimated with a high degree of confidence to be commercially
recoverable from a given date forward, from known reservoirs and under
current economic conditions.

People:  This category includes the entries dealing with the
characteristics of the people and their society.

People - note:  This entry includes miscellaneous demographic
information of significance not included elsewhere.

Personal Names - Capitalization:  The Factbook capitalizes the surname
or family name of individuals for the convenience of our users who are
faced with a world of different cultures and naming conventions. The
need for capitalization, bold type, underlining, italics, or some other
indicator of the individual's surname is apparent in the following
examples: MAO Zedong, Fidel CASTRO Ruz, George W. BUSH, and TUNKU
SALAHUDDIN Abdul Aziz Shah ibni Al-Marhum Sultan Hisammuddin Alam Shah.
By knowing the surname, a short form without all capital letters can be
used with confidence as in President Castro, Chairman Mao, President
Bush, or Sultan Tunku Salahuddin. The same system of capitalization is
extended to the names of leaders with surnames that are not commonly
used such as Queen ELIZABETH II. For Vietnamese names, the given name
is capitalized because officials are referred to by their given name
rather than by their surname. For example, the president of Vietnam is
Tran Duc LUONG. His surname is Tran, but he is referred to by his given
name - President LUONG.

Personal Names - Spelling:  The romanization of personal names in the
Factbook normally follows the same transliteration system used by the
US Board on Geographic Names for spelling place names. At times,
however, a foreign leader expressly indicates a preference for, or the
media or official documents regularly use, a romanized spelling that
differs from the transliteration derived from the US Government
standard. In such cases, the Factbook uses the alternative spelling.

Personal Names - Titles:  The Factbook capitalizes any valid title (or
short form of it) immediately preceding a person's name. A title
standing alone is not capitalized. Examples: President PUTIN and
President BUSH are chiefs of state. In Russia, the president is chief
of state and the premier is the head of the government, while in the
US, the president is both chief of state and head of government.

Petroleum:  See entries under Oil.

Petroleum products:  See entries under Oil.

Pipelines:  This entry gives the lengths and types of pipelines for
transporting products like natural gas, crude oil, or petroleum
products.

Political parties and leaders:  This entry includes a listing of
significant political organizations and their leaders.

Political pressure groups and leaders:  This entry includes a listing
of a country's political, social, labor, or religious organizations
that are involved in politics, or that exert political pressure, but
whose leaders do not stand for legislative election. International
movements or organizations are generally not listed.

Population:  This entry gives an estimate from the US Bureau of the
Census based on statistics from population censuses, vital statistics
registration systems, or sample surveys pertaining to the recent past
and on assumptions about future trends. The total population presents
one overall measure of the potential impact of the country on the world
and within its region. Note: Starting with the 1993 Factbook,
demographic estimates for some countries (mostly African) have
explicitly taken into account the effects of the growing impact of the
HIV/AIDS epidemic. These countries are currently: The Bahamas, Benin,
Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon,
Central African Republic, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of
the Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, Rwanda,
South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Uganda, Zambia, and
Zimbabwe.

Population growth rate:  The average annual percent change in the
population, resulting from a surplus (or deficit) of births over deaths
and the balance of migrants entering and leaving a country. The rate
may be positive or negative. The growth rate is a factor in determining
how great a burden would be imposed on a country by the changing needs
of its people for infrastructure (e.g., schools, hospitals, housing,
roads), resources (e.g., food, water, electricity), and jobs. Rapid
population growth can be seen as threatening by neighboring countries.

Ports and terminals:  This entry lists major ports and terminals
primarily on the basis of the amount of cargo tonnage shipped through
the facilities on an annual basis. In some instances, the number of
containers handled or ship visits were also considered.

Public debt:  This entry records the cumulative total of all government
borrowings less repayments that are denominated in a country's home
currency. Public debt should not be confused with external debt, which
reflects the foreign currency liabilities of both the private and
public sector and must be financed out of foreign exchange earnings.

Radio broadcast stations:  This entry includes the total number of AM,
FM, and shortwave broadcast stations.

Railways:  This entry states the total route length of the railway
network and of its component parts by gauge: broad, standard, narrow,
and dual. Other gauges are listed under note.

Reference maps:  This section includes world and regional maps.

Refugees and internally displaced persons:  This entry includes those
persons residing in a country as refugees or internally displaced
persons (IDPs). The definition of a refugee according to a United
Nations Convention is "a person who is outside his/her country of
nationality or habitual residence; has a well-founded fear of
persecution because of his/her race, religion, nationality, membership
in a particular social group or political opinion; and is unable or
unwilling to avail himself/herself of the protection of that country,
or to return there, for fear of persecution." The UN established the
Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) in 1950 to
handle refugee matters worldwide. The UN Relief and Works Agency for
Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA) has a different operational
definition for a Palestinian refugee: "a person whose normal place of
residence was Palestine during the period 1 June 1946 to 15 May 1948
and who lost both home and means of livelihood as a result of the 1948
conflict." However, UNHCR also assists some 400,000 Palestinian
refugees not covered under the UNRWA definition. The term "internally
displaced person" is not specifically covered in the UN Convention; it
is used to describe people who have fled their homes for reasons
similar to refugees, but who remain within their own national territory
and are subject to the laws of that state.

Religions:  This entry is an ordered listing of religions by adherents
starting with the largest group and sometimes includes the percent of
total population. The core characteristics and beliefs of the world's
major religions are described below.

Baha'i - Founded by Mirza Husayn-Ali (known as Baha'u'llah) in Iran in
1852, Baha'i faith emphasizes monotheism and believes in one eternal
transcendent God. Its guiding focus is to encourage the unity of all
peoples on the earth so that justice and peace may be achieved on
earth. Baha'i revelation contends the prophets of major world religions
reflect some truth or element of the divine, believes all were
manifestations of God given to specific communities in specific times,
and that Baha'u'llah is an additional prophet meant to call all
humankind. Bahais are an open community, located worldwide, with the
greatest concentration of believers in South Asia.

Buddhism - Religion or philosophy inspired by the 5th century B.C.
teachings of Siddhartha Gautama (also known as Gautama Buddha "the
enlightened one"). Buddhism focuses on the goal of spiritual
enlightenment centered on an understanding of Gautama Buddha's Four
Noble Truths on the nature of suffering, and on the Eightfold Path of
spiritual and moral practice, to break the cycle of suffering of which
we are a part. Buddhism ascribes to a karmic system of rebirth. Several
schools and sects of Buddhism exist, differing often on the nature of
the Buddha, the extent to which enlightenment can be achieved - for one
or for all, and by whom - religious orders or laity.

Basic Groupings

   Theravada Buddhism: The oldest Buddhist school, Theravada is
practiced mostly in Sri Lanka, Cambodia, Laos, Burma, and Thailand,
with minority representation elsewhere in Asia and the West.
Theravadans follow the Pali Canon of Buddha's teachings, and believe
that one may escape the cycle of rebirth, worldly attachment, and
suffering for oneself; this process may take one or several lifetimes.

   Mahayana Buddhism, including subsets Zen and Tibetan Buddhism: Forms
of Mahayana Buddhism are common in East Asia and Tibet, and parts of
the West. Mahayanas have additional scriptures beyond the Pali Canon
and believe the Buddha is eternal and still teaching. Unlike Theravada
Buddhism, Mahayana schools maintain the Buddha-nature is present in all
beings and all will ultimately achieve enlightenment.

Christianity - Descending from Judaism, Christianity's central belief
maintains Jesus of Nazareth is the promised messiah of the Hebrew
Scriptures, and that his life, death, and resurrection are salvific for
the world. Christianity is one of the three monotheistic Abrahamic
faiths, along with Islam and Judaism, which traces its spiritual
lineage to Abraham of the Hebrew Scriptures. Its sacred texts include
the Hebrew Bible and the New Testament (or the Christian Gospels).

Basic Groupings

   Catholicism (or Roman Catholicism): This is the oldest established
western Christian church and the world's largest single religious body.
It is supranational, and recognizes a hierarchical structure with the
Pope, or Bishop of Rome, as its head, located at the Vatican. Catholics
believe the Pope is the divinely ordered head of the Church from a
direct spiritual legacy of Jesus' apostle Peter. Catholicism is
comprised of 23 particular Churches, or Rites - one Western (Latin-
Rite) and 22 Eastern. The Latin Rite is by far the largest, making up
about 98% of Catholic membership. Eastern-Rite Churches, such as the
Maronite Church and the Ukrainian Catholic Church, are in communion
with Rome although they preserve their own worship traditions and their
immediate hierarchy consists of clergy within their own rite. The
Catholic Church has a comprehensive theological and moral doctrine
specified for believers in its catechism, which makes it unique among
most forms of Christianity.

   Mormonism (including the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day
Saints): Originating in 1830 in the United States under Joseph Smith,
Mormonism is not characterized as a form of Protestant Christianity
because it claims additional revealed Christian scriptures after the
Hebrew Bible and New Testament. The Book of Mormon maintains there was
an appearance of Jesus in the New World following the Christian account
of his resurrection, and that the Americas are uniquely blessed
continents. Mormonism believes earlier Christian traditions, such as
the Roman Catholic, Orthodox, and Protestant reform faiths, are
apostasies and that Joseph Smith's revelation of the Book of Mormon is
a restoration of true Christianity. Mormons have a hierarchical
religious leadership structure, and actively proselytize their faith;
they are located primarily in the Americas and in a number of other
Western countries.

   Orthodox Christianity: The oldest established eastern form of
Christianity, the Holy Orthodox Church, has a ceremonial head in the
Bishop of Constantinople (Istanbul), also known as a Patriarch, but its
various regional forms (e.g., Greek Orthodox, Russian Orthodox, Serbian
Orthodox, Ukrainian Orthodox) are autocephalous (independent of
Constantinople's authority, and have their own Patriarchs). Orthodox
churches are highly nationalist and ethnic. The Orthodox Christian
faith shares many theological tenets with the Roman Catholic Church,
but diverges on some key premises and does not recognize the governing
authority of the Pope.

   Protestant Christianity: Protestant Christianity originated in the
16th century as an attempt to reform Roman Catholicism's practices,
dogma, and theology. It encompasses several forms or denominations
which are extremely varied in structure, beliefs, relationship to
state, clergy, and governance. Many protestant theologies emphasize the
primary role of scripture in their faith, advocating individual
interpretation of Christian texts without the mediation of a final
religious authority such as the Roman Pope. The oldest Protestant
Christianities include Lutheranism, Calvinism (Presbyterians), and
Anglican Christianity (Episcopalians), which have established
liturgies, governing structure, and formal clergy. Other variants on
Protestant Christianity, including Pentecostal movements and
independent churches, may lack one or more of these elements, and their
leadership and beliefs are individualized and dynamic.

Hinduism - Originating in the Vedic civilization of India (second and
first millennium B.C.), Hinduism is an extremely diverse set of beliefs
and practices with no single founder or religious authority. Hinduism
has many scriptures; the Vedas, the Upanishads, and the Bhagavad-Gita
are among some of the most important. Hindus may worship one or many
deities, usually with prayer rituals within their own home. The most
common figures of devotion are the gods Vishnu, Shiva, and a mother
goddess, Devi. Most Hindus believe the soul, or atman, is eternal, and
goes through a cycle of birth, death, and rebirth (samsara) determined
by one's positive or negative karma, or the consequences of one's
actions. The goal of religious life is to learn to act so as to finally
achieve liberation (moksha) of one's soul, escaping the rebirth cycle.

Islam - The third of the monotheistic Abrahamic faiths, Islam
originated with the teachings of Muhammad in the 7th century. Muslims
believe Muhammad is the final of all religious prophets (beginning with
Abraham) and that the Qu'ran, which is the Islamic scripture, was
revealed to him by God. Islam derives from the word submission, and
obedience to God is a primary theme in this religion. In order to live
an Islamic life, believers must follow the five pillars, or tenets, of
Islam, which are the testimony of faith (shahada), daily prayer
(salah), giving alms (zakah), fasting during Ramadan (sawm), and the
pilgrimage to Mecca (hajj).

Basic Groupings

   The two primary branches of Islam are Sunni and Shia, which split
from each other over a religio-political leadership dispute about the
rightful successor to Muhammad. The Shia believe Muhammad's cousin and
son-in-law, Ali, was the only divinely ordained Imam (religious
leader), while the Sunni maintain the first three caliphs after
Muhammad were also legitimate authorities. In modern Islam, Sunnis and
Shia continue to have different views of acceptable schools of Islamic
jurisprudence, and who is a proper Islamic religious authority. Islam
also has an active mystical branch, Sufism, with various Sunni and Shia
subsets.

    Sunni Islam accounts for over 75% of the world's Muslim population.
It recognizes the Abu Bakr as the first caliph after Muhammad. Sunni
has four schools of Islamic doctrine and law - Hanafi, Maliki, Shafi'i,
and Hanbali - which uniquely interpret the Hadith, or recorded oral
traditions of Muhammad. A Sunni Muslim may elect to follow any one of
these schools, as all are considered equally valid.

    Shia Islam represents 10-20% of Muslims worldwide, and its
distinguishing feature is its reverence for Ali as an infallible,
divinely inspired leader, and as the first Imam of the Muslim community
after Muhammad. A majority of Shia are known as "Twelvers," because
they believe that the 11 familial successor imams after Muhammad
culminate in a 12th Imam (al-Mahdi) who is hidden in the world and will
reappear at its end to redeem the righteous.

Variants

   Ismaili faith: A sect of Shia Islam, its adherents are also known as
"Seveners," because they believe that the rightful seventh Imam in
Islamic leadership was Isma'il, the elder son of Imam Jafar al-Sadiq.
Ismaili tradition awaits the return of the seventh Imam as the Mahdi,
or Islamic messianic figure. Ismailis are located in various parts of
the world, particularly South Asia and the Levant.

   Alawi faith: Another Shia sect of Islam, the name reflects
followers' devotion to the religious authority of Ali. Alawites are a
closed, secretive religious group who assert they are Shia Muslims,
although outside scholars speculate their beliefs may have a syncretic
mix with other faiths originating in the Middle East. Alawis live
mostly in Syria, Lebanon, and Turkey.

   Druze faith: A highly secretive tradition and a closed community
that derives from the Ismaili sect of Islam; its core beliefs are
thought to emphasize a combination of Gnostic principles believing that
the Fatimid caliph, al-Hakin, is the one who embodies the key aspects
of goodness of the universe, which are, the intellect, the word, the
soul, the preceder, and the follower. The Druze have a key presence in
Syria, Lebanon, and Israel.

Jainism - Originating in India, Jain spiritual philosophy believes in
an eternal human soul, the eternal universe, and a principle of "the
own nature of things." It emphasizes compassion for all living things,
seeks liberation of the human soul from reincarnation through
enlightenment, and values personal responsibility due to the belief in
the immediate consequences of one's behavior. Jain philosophy teaches
non-violence and prescribes vegetarianism for monks and laity alike;
its adherents are a highly influential religious minority in Indian
society.

Judaism - One of the first known monotheistic religions, likely dating
to between 2000-1500 B.C., Judaism is the native faith of the Jewish
people, based upon the belief in a covenant of responsibility between a
sole omnipotent creator God and Abraham, the patriarch of Judaism's
Hebrew Bible, or Tanakh. Divine revelation of principles and
prohibitions in the Hebrew Scriptures form the basis of Jewish law, or
halakhah, which is a key component of the faith. While there are
extensive traditions of Jewish halakhic and theological discourse,
there is no final dogmatic authority in the tradition. Local
communities have their own religious leadership. Modern Judaism has
three basic categories of faith: Orthodox, Conservative, and
Reform/Liberal. These differ in their views and observance of Jewish
law, with the Orthodox representing the most traditional practice, and
Reform/Liberal communities the most accommodating of individualized
interpretations of Jewish identity and faith.

Shintoism - A native animist tradition of Japan, Shinto practice is
based upon the premise that every being and object has its own spirit
or kami. Shinto practitioners worship several particular kamis,
including the kamis of nature, and families often have shrines to their
ancestors' kamis. Shintoism has no fixed tradition of prayers or
prescribed dogma, but is characterized by individual ritual. Respect
for the kamis in nature is a key Shinto value. Prior to the end of
World War II, Shinto was the state religion of Japan, and bolstered the
cult of the Japanese emperor.

Sikhism - Founded by the Guru Nanak (born 1469), Sikhism believes in a
non-anthropomorphic, supreme, eternal, creator God; centering one's
devotion to God is seen as a means of escaping the cycle of rebirth.
Sikhs follow the teachings of Nanak and nine subsequent gurus. Their
scripture, the Guru Granth Sahib - also known as the Adi Granth - is
considered the living Guru, or final authority of Sikh faith and
theology. Sikhism emphasizes equality of humankind and disavows caste,
class, or gender discrimination.

Taoism - Chinese philosophy or religion based upon Lao Tzu's Tao Te
Ching, which centers on belief in the Tao, or the way, as the flow of
the universe and the nature of things. Taoism encourages a principle of
non-force, or wu-wei, as the means to live harmoniously with the Tao.
Taoists believe the esoteric world is made up of a perfect harmonious
balance and nature, while in the manifest world - particularly in the
body - balance is distorted. The Three Jewels of the Tao - compassion,
simplicity, and humility - serve as the basis for Taoist ethics.

Zoroastrianism - Originating from the teachings of Zoroaster in about
the 9th or 10th century B.C., Zoroastrianism may be the oldest
continuing creedal religion. Its key beliefs center on a transcendent
creator God, Ahura Mazda, and the concept of free will. The key ethical
tenets of Zoroastrianism expressed in its scripture, the Avesta, are
based on a dualistic worldview where one may prevent chaos if one
chooses to serve God and exercises good thoughts, good words, and good
deeds. Zoroastrianism is generally a closed religion and members are
almost always born to Zoroastrian parents. Prior to the spread of
Islam, Zoroastrianism dominated greater Iran. Today, though a minority,
Zoroastrians remain primarily in Iran, India, and Pakistan.

Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:  This entry gives the dollar
value for the stock of all financial assets that are available to the
central monetary authority for use in meeting a country's balance of
payments needs as of the end-date of the period specified. This
category includes not only foreign currency and gold, but also a
country's holdings of Special Drawing Rights in the International
Monetary Fund, and its reserve position in the Fund.

Roadways:  This entry gives the total length of the road network and
includes the length of the paved and unpaved portions.

School life expectancy (primary to tertiary):  School life expectancy
(SLE) is the total number of years of schooling (primary to tertiary)
that a child can expect to receive, assuming that the probability of
his or her being enrolled in school at any particular future age is
equal to the current enrollment ratio at that age. Caution must be
maintained when utilizing this indicator in international comparisons.
For example, a year or grade completed in one country is not
necessarily the same in terms of educational content or quality as a
year or grade completed in another country. SLE represents the expected
number of years of schooling that will be completed, including years
spent repeating one or more grades.

Sex ratio:  This entry includes the number of males for each female in
five age groups - at birth, under 15 years, 15-64 years, 65 years and
over, and for the total population. Sex ratio at birth has recently
emerged as an indicator of certain kinds of sex discrimination in some
countries. For instance, high sex ratios at birth in some Asian
countries are now attributed to sex-selective abortion and infanticide
due to a strong preference for sons. This will affect future marriage
patterns and fertility patterns. Eventually, it could cause unrest
among young adult males who are unable to find partners.

Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:  This entry gives the
cumulative US dollar value of all investments in foreign countries made
directly by residents - primarily companies - of the home country, as
of the end of the time period indicated. Direct investment excludes
investment through purchase of shares.

Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:  This entry gives the
cumulative US dollar value of all investments in the home country made
directly by residents - primarily companies - of other countries as of
the end of the time period indicated. Direct investment excludes
investment through purchase of shares.

Stock of domestic credit:  This entry is the total quantity of credit,
denominated in the domestic currency, provided by banks to nonbanking
institutions. The national currency units have been converted to US
dollars at the closing exchange rate on the date of the information.

Stock of money:  This entry, also known as "M1," comprises the total
quantity of currency in circulation (notes and coins) plus demand
deposits denominated in the national currency, held by nonbank
financial institutions, state and local governments, nonfinancial
public enterprises, and the private sector of the economy. The national
currency units have been converted to US dollars at the closing
exchange rate on the date of the information.

Stock of quasi money:  This entry comprises the total quantity of time
and savings deposits denominated in the national currency, held by
nonbank financial institutions, state and local governments,
nonfinancial public enterprises, and the private sector of the economy.
When added together with "M1" the total money supply is known as "M2."
The national currency units have been converted to US dollars at the
closing exchange rate on the date of the information.

Suffrage:  This entry gives the age at enfranchisement and whether the
right to vote is universal or restricted.

Telephone numbers:  All telephone numbers in The World Factbook consist
of the country code in brackets, the city or area code (where required)
in parentheses, and the local number. The one component that is not
presented is the international access code, which varies from country
to country. For example, an international direct dial telephone call
placed from the US to Madrid, Spain, would be as follows: 011 [34] (1)
577-xxxx, where 011 is the international access code for station-to-
station calls; 01 is for calls other than station-to-station calls,
[34] is the country code for Spain, (1) is the city code for Madrid,
577 is the local exchange, and xxxx is the local telephone number. An
international direct dial telephone call placed from another country to
the US would be as follows: international access code + [1] (202) 939-
xxxx, where [ 1] is the country code for the US, (202) is the area code
for Washington, DC, 939 is the local exchange, and xxxx is the local
telephone number.

Telephone system:  This entry includes a brief general assessment of
the system with details on the domestic and international components.
The following terms and abbreviations are used throughout the entry:

Arabsat - Arab Satellite Communications Organization (Riyadh, Saudi
Arabia).

Autodin - Automatic Digital Network (US Department of Defense).

CB - citizen's band mobile radio communications.

Cellular telephone system - the telephones in this system are radio
transceivers, with each instrument having its own private radio
frequency and sufficient radiated power to reach the booster station in
its area (cell), from which the telephone signal is fed to a telephone
exchange.

Central American Microwave System - a trunk microwave radio relay
system that links the countries of Central America and Mexico with each
other.

Coaxial cable - a multichannel communication cable consisting of a
central conducting wire, surrounded by and insulated from a cylindrical
conducting shell; a large number of telephone channels can be made
available within the insulated space by the use of a large number of
carrier frequencies.

Comsat - Communications Satellite Corporation (US).

DSN - Defense Switched Network (formerly Automatic Voice Network or
Autovon); basic general-purpose, switched voice network of the Defense
Communications System (US Department of Defense).

Eutelsat - European Telecommunications Satellite Organization (Paris).

Fiber-optic cable - a multichannel communications cable using a thread
of optical glass fibers as a transmission medium in which the signal
(voice, video, etc.) is in the form of a coded pulse of light.

GSM - a global system for mobile (cellular) communications devised by
the Groupe Special Mobile of the pan-European standardization
organization, Conference Europeanne des Posts et Telecommunications
(CEPT) in 1982.

HF - high frequency; any radio frequency in the 3,000- to 30,000-kHz
range.

Inmarsat - International Maritime Satellite Organization (London);
provider of global mobile satellite communications for commercial,
distress, and safety applications at sea, in the air, and on land.

Intelsat - International Telecommunications Satellite Organization
(Washington, DC).

Intersputnik - International Organization of Space Communications
(Moscow); first established in the former Soviet Union and the East
European countries, it is now marketing its services worldwide with
earth stations in North America, Africa, and East Asia.

Landline - communication wire or cable of any sort that is installed on
poles or buried in the ground.

Marecs - Maritime European Communications Satellite used in the
Inmarsat system on lease from the European Space Agency.

Marisat - satellites of the Comsat Corporation that participate in the
Inmarsat system.

Medarabtel - the Middle East Telecommunications Project of the
International Telecommunications Union (ITU) providing a modern
telecommunications network, primarily by microwave radio relay, linking
Algeria, Djibouti, Egypt, Jordan, Libya, Morocco, Saudi Arabia,
Somalia, Sudan, Syria, Tunisia, and Yemen; it was initially started in
Morocco in 1970 by the Arab Telecommunications Union (ATU) and was
known at that time as the Middle East Mediterranean Telecommunications
Network.

Microwave radio relay - transmission of long distance telephone calls
and television programs by highly directional radio microwaves that are
received and sent on from one booster station to another on an optical
path.

NMT - Nordic Mobile Telephone; an analog cellular telephone system that
was developed jointly by the national telecommunications authorities of
the Nordic countries (Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden).

Orbita - a Russian television service; also the trade name of a packet-
switched digital telephone network.

Radiotelephone communications - the two-way transmission and reception
of sounds by broadcast radio on authorized frequencies using telephone
handsets.

PanAmSat - PanAmSat Corporation (Greenwich, CT).

SAFE - South African Far East Cable

Satellite communication system - a communication system consisting of
two or more earth stations and at least one satellite that provide long
distance transmission of voice, data, and television; the system
usually serves as a trunk connection between telephone exchanges; if
the earth stations are in the same country, it is a domestic system.

Satellite earth station - a communications facility with a microwave
radio transmitting and receiving antenna and required receiving and
transmitting equipment for communicating with satellites.

Satellite link - a radio connection between a satellite and an earth
station permitting communication between them, either one-way (down
link from satellite to earth station - television receive-only
transmission) or two-way (telephone channels).

SHF - super high frequency; any radio frequency in the 3,000- to
30,000-MHz range.

Shortwave - radio frequencies (from 1.605 to 30 MHz) that fall above
the commercial broadcast band and are used for communication over long
distances.

Solidaridad - geosynchronous satellites in Mexico's system of
international telecommunications in the Western Hemisphere.

Statsionar - Russia's geostationary system for satellite
telecommunications.

Submarine cable - a cable designed for service under water.

TAT - Trans-Atlantic Telephone; any of a number of high-capacity
submarine coaxial telephone cables linking Europe with North America.

Telefax - facsimile service between subscriber stations via the public
switched telephone network or the international Datel network.

Telegraph - a telecommunications system designed for unmodulated
electric impulse transmission.

Telex - a communication service involving teletypewriters connected by
wire through automatic exchanges.

Tropospheric scatter - a form of microwave radio transmission in which
the troposphere is used to scatter and reflect a fraction of the
incident radio waves back to earth; powerful, highly directional
antennas are used to transmit and receive the microwave signals;
reliable over-the-horizon communications are realized for distances up
to 600 miles in a single hop; additional hops can extend the range of
this system for very long distances.

Trunk network - a network of switching centers, connected by
multichannel trunk lines.

UHF - ultra high frequency; any radio frequency in the 300- to 3,000-
MHz range.

VHF - very high frequency; any radio frequency in the 30- to 300-MHz
range.

Telephones - main lines in use:  This entry gives the total number of
main telephone lines in use.

Telephones - mobile cellular:  This entry gives the total number of
mobile cellular telephone subscribers.

Television broadcast stations:  This entry gives the total number of
separate broadcast stations plus any repeater stations.

Terminology:  Due to the highly structured nature of the Factbook
database, some collective generic terms have to be used. For example,
the word Country in the Country name entry refers to a wide variety of
dependencies, areas of special sovereignty, uninhabited islands, and
other entities in addition to the traditional countries or independent
states. Military is also used as an umbrella term for various civil
defense, security, and defense activities in many entries. The
Independence entry includes the usual colonial independence dates and
former ruling states as well as other significant nationhood dates such
as the traditional founding date or the date of unification,
federation, confederation, establishment, or state succession that are
not strictly independence dates. Dependent areas have the nature of
their dependency status noted in this same entry.

Terrain:  This entry contains a brief description of the topography.

Time difference:  This entry is expressed in The World Factbook in two
ways. First, it is stated as the difference in hours between the
capital of an entity and Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) during
Standard Time. Additionally, the difference in time between the capital
of an entity and that observed in Washington, D.C. is also provided.
Note that the time difference assumes both locations are simultaneously
observing Standard Time or Daylight Saving Time.

Time zones:  Ten countries (Australia, Brazil, Canada, Indonesia,
Kazakhstan, Mexico, New Zealand, Russia, Spain, and the United States)
and the island of Greenland observe more than one official time
depending on the number of designated time zones within their
boundaries. An illustration of time zones throughout the world and
within countries can be seen in the Standard Time Zones of the World
map included in the Reference Maps section of The World Factbook.

Total fertility rate:  This entry gives a figure for the average number
of children that would be born per woman if all women lived to the end
of their childbearing years and bore children according to a given
fertility rate at each age. The total fertility rate (TFR) is a more
direct measure of the level of fertility than the crude birth rate,
since it refers to births per woman. This indicator shows the potential
for population change in the country. A rate of two children per woman
is considered the replacement rate for a population, resulting in
relative stability in terms of total numbers. Rates above two children
indicate populations growing in size and whose median age is declining.
Higher rates may also indicate difficulties for families, in some
situations, to feed and educate their children and for women to enter
the labor force. Rates below two children indicate populations
decreasing in size and growing older. Global fertility rates are in
general decline and this trend is most pronounced in industrialized
countries, especially Western Europe, where populations are projected
to decline dramatically over the next 50 years.

Total renewable water resources:  This entry provides the long-term
average water availability for a country in cubic kilometers of
precipitation, recharged ground water, and surface inflows from
surrounding countries. The values have been adjusted to account for
overlap resulting from surface flow recharge of groundwater sources.
Total renewable water resources provides the water total available to a
country but does not include water resource totals that have been
reserved for upstream or downstream countries through international
agreements. Note that these values are averages and do not accurately
reflect the total available in any given year. Annual available
resources can vary greatly due to short-term and long-term climatic and
weather variations.

Trafficking in persons:  Trafficking in persons is modern-day slavery,
involving victims who are forced, defrauded, or coerced into labor or
sexual exploitation. The International Labor Organization (ILO), the UN
agency charged with addressing labor standards, employment, and social
protection issues, estimates that 12.3 million people worldwide are
enslaved in forced labor, bonded labor, forced child labor, sexual
servitude, and involuntary servitude at any given time. Human
trafficking is a multi-dimensional threat, depriving people of their
human rights and freedoms, risking global health, promoting social
breakdown, inhibiting development by depriving countries of their human
capital, and helping fuel the growth of organized crime. In 2000, the
US Congress passed the Trafficking Victims Protection Act (TVPA),
reauthorized in 2003 and 2005, which provides tools for the US to
combat trafficking in persons, both domestically and abroad. One of the
law's key components is the creation of the US Department of State's
annual Trafficking in Persons Report, which assesses the government
response (i.e., the current situation) in some 150 countries with a
significant number of victims trafficked across their borders who are
recruited, harbored, transported, provided, or obtained for forced
labor or sexual exploitation. Countries in the annual report are rated
in three tiers, based on government efforts to combat trafficking. The
countries identified in this entry are those listed in the 2007
Trafficking in Persons Report as Tier 2 Watch List or Tier 3 based on
the following tier rating definitions:

Tier 2 Watch List countries do not fully comply with the minimum
standards for the elimination of trafficking but are making significant
efforts to do so, and meet one of the following criteria:

1. they display high or significantly increasing number of victims,

2. they have failed to provide evidence of increasing efforts to combat
trafficking in persons, or,

3. they have committed to take action over the next year.

Tier 3 countries neither satisfy the minimum standards for the
elimination of trafficking nor demonstrate a significant effort to do
so. Countries in this tier are subject to potential non-humanitarian
and non-trade sanctions.

Transnational issues:  This category includes four entries - Disputes -
international, Refugees and internally displaced persons, Trafficking
in persons, and Illicit drugs - that deal with current issues going
beyond national boundaries.

Transportation:  This category includes the entries dealing with the
means for movement of people and goods.

Transportation - note:  This entry includes miscellaneous
transportation information of significance not included elsewhere.

UTC (Coordinated Universal Time):  See entry for Coordinated Universal
Time.

Unemployment rate:  This entry contains the percent of the labor force
that is without jobs. Substantial underemployment might be noted.

Waterways:  This entry gives the total length of navigable rivers,
canals, and other inland bodies of water.

Weights and Measures:  This information is presented in Appendix G:
Weights and Measures and includes mathematical notations (mathematical
powers and names), metric interrelationships (prefix; symbol; length,
weight, or capacity; area; volume), and standard conversion factors.

Years:  All year references are for the calendar year (CY) unless
indicated as fiscal year (FY). The calendar year is an accounting
period of 12 months from 1 January to 31 December. The fiscal year is
an accounting period of 12 months other than 1 January to 31 December.

Note: Information for the US and US dependencies was compiled from
material in the public domain and does not represent Intelligence
Community estimates.

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



=====================================================================



CIA - The World Factbook -- History


A Brief History of Basic Intelligence and The World Factbook


The Intelligence Cycle is the process by which information is acquired,
converted into intelligence, and made available to policymakers.
Information is raw data from any source, data that may be fragmentary,
contradictory, unreliable, ambiguous, deceptive, or wrong. Intelligence
is information that has been collected, integrated, evaluated,
analyzed, and interpreted. Finished intelligence is the final product
of the Intelligence Cycle ready to be delivered to the policymaker.

The three types of finished intelligence are: basic, current, and
estimative. Basic intelligence provides the fundamental and factual
reference material on a country or issue. Current intelligence reports
on new developments. Estimative intelligence judges probable outcomes.
The three are mutually supportive: basic intelligence is the foundation
on which the other two are constructed; current intelligence
continually updates the inventory of knowledge; and estimative
intelligence revises overall interpretations of country and issue
prospects for guidance of basic and current intelligence. The World
Factbook , The President's Daily Brief , and the National Intelligence
Estimates are examples of the three types of finished intelligence.

The United States has carried on foreign intelligence activities since
the days of George Washington but only since World War II have they
been coordinated on a government-wide basis. Three programs have
highlighted the development of coordinated basic intelligence since
that time: (1 ) the Joint Army Navy Intelligence Studies (JANIS), (2 )
the National Intelligence Survey ( NIS ), and (3) The World Factbook .

During World War II, intelligence consumers realized that the
production of basic intelligence by different components of the US
Government resulted in a great duplication of effort and conflicting
information. The Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941 brought home
to leaders in Congress and the executive branch the need for
integrating departmental reports to national policymakers. Detailed and
coordinated information was needed not only on such major powers as
Germany and Japan , but also on places of little previous interest. In
the Pacific Theater, for example, the Navy and Marines had to launch
amphibious operations against many islands about which information was
unconfirmed or nonexistent. Intelligence authorities resolved that the
United States should never again be caught unprepared.

In 1943, Gen. George B. Strong (G-2), Adm. H. C. Train (Office of Naval
Intelligence--ONI), and Gen. William J. Donovan (Director of the Office
of Strategic Services--OSS ) decided that a joint effort should be
initiated. A steering committee was appointed on 27 April 1943 that
recommended the formation of a Joint Intelligence Study Publishing
Board to assemble, edit, coordinate, and publish the Joint Army Navy
Intelligence Studies (JANIS). JANIS was the first interdepartmental
basic intelligence program to fulfill the needs of the US Government
for an authoritative and coordinated appraisal of strategic basic
intelligence. Between April 1943 and July 1947, the board published 34
JANIS studies. JANIS performed well in the war effort, and numerous
letters of commendation were received, including a statement from Adm.
Forrest Sherman, Chief of Staff, Pacific Ocean Areas, which said,
"JANIS has become the indispensable reference work for the shore-based
planners."

The need for more comprehensive basic intelligence in the postwar world
was well expressed in 1946 by George S. Pettee, a noted author on
national security. He wrote in The Future of American Secret
Intelligence (Infantry Journal Press, 1946, page 46) that world
leadership in peace requires even more elaborate intelligence than in
war. "The conduct of peace involves all countries, all human
activities--not just the enemy and his war production."

The Central Intelligence Agency was established on 26 July 1947 and
officially began operating on 18 September 1947. Effective 1 October
1947, the Director of Central Intelligence assumed operational
responsibility for JANIS. On 13 January 1948, the National Security
Council issued Intelligence Directive (NSCID) No. 3, which authorized
the National Intelligence Survey ( NIS ) program as a peacetime
replacement for the wartime JANIS program. Before adequate NIS country
sections could be produced, government agencies had to develop more
comprehensive gazetteers and better maps. The US Board on Geographic
Names (BGN) compiled the names; the Department of the Interior produced
the gazetteers; and CIA produced the maps.

The Hoover Commission's Clark Committee, set up in 1954 to study the
structure and administration of the CIA, reported to Congress in 1955
that: "The National Intelligence Survey is an invaluable publication
which provides the essential elements of basic intelligence on all
areas of the world. There will always be a continuing requirement for
keeping the Survey up-to-date." The Factbook was created as an annual
summary and update to the encyclopedic NIS studies. The first
classified Factbook was published in August 1962, and the first
unclassified version was published in June 1971. The NIS program was
terminated in 1973 except for the Factbook , map, and gazetteer
components. The 1975 Factbook was the first to be made available to the
public with sales through the US Government Printing Office (GPO). The
Factbook was first made available on the Internet in June 1997. The
year 2008 marks the 61st anniversary of the establishment of the
Central Intelligence Agency and the 65th year of continuous basic
intelligence support to the US Government by The World Factbook and its
two predecessor programs.



The Evolution of The World Factbook

National Basic Intelligence Factbook produced semiannually until 1980.
Country entries include sections on Land, Water, People, Government,
Economy, Communications, and Defense Forces.

1981--Publication becomes an annual product and is renamed The World
Factbook. A total of 165 nations are covered on 225 pages.

1983--Appendices (Conversion Factors, International Organizations)
first introduced.

1984--Appendices expanded; now include: A. The United Nations, B.
Selected United Nations Organizations, C. Selected International
Organizations, D. Country Membership in Selected Organizations, E.
Conversion Factors.

1987--A new Geography section replaces the former separate Land and
Water sections. UN Organizations and Selected International
Organizations appendices merged into a new International Organizations
appendix. First multi-color-cover Factbook.

1988--More than 40 new geographic entities added to provide complete
world coverage without overlap or omission. Among the new entities are
Antarctica, oceans (Arctic, Atlantic , Indian, Pacific), and the World.
The front-of-the-book explanatory introduction expanded and retitled to
Notes, Definitions, and Abbreviations. Two new Appendices added:
Weights and Measures (in place of Conversion Factors) and a Cross-
Reference List of Geographic Names. Factbook size reaches 300 pages.

1989--Economy section completely revised and now includes an Overview
briefly describing a country's economy. New entries added under People,
Government, and Communications.

1990--The Government section revised and considerably expanded with
new entries.

1991--A new International Organizations and Groups appendix added.
Factbook size reaches 405 pages.

1992--Twenty new successor state entries replace those of the Soviet
Union and Yugoslavia . New countries are respectively: Armenia ,
Azerbaijan , Belarus , Estonia , Georgia , Kazakhstan , Kyrgyzstan ,
Latvia , Lithuania , Moldova , Russia , Tajikistan , Turkmenistan ,
Ukraine , Uzbekistan ; and Bosnia and Hercegovina , Croatia , Macedonia
, Serbia and Montenegro , Slovenia . Number of nations in the Factbook
rises to 188.

1993--Czechoslovakia 's split necessitates new Czech Republic and
Slovakia entries. New Eritrea entry added after it secedes from
Ethiopia . Substantial enhancements made to Geography section.

1994--Two new appendices address Selected International Environmental
Agreements. The gross domestic product (GDP) of most developing
countries changed to a purchasing power parity (PPP) basis rather than
an exchange rate basis. Factbook size up to 512 pages.

1995--The GDP of all countries now presented on a PPP basis. New
appendix lists estimates of GDP on an exchange rate basis.
Communications category split; Railroads, Highways, Inland waterways,
Pipelines, Merchant marine, and Airports entries now make up a new
Transportation category. The World Factbook is first produced on CD-
ROM.

1996--Maps accompanying each entry now present more detail. Flags also
introduced for nearly all entities. Various new entries appear under
Geography and Communications. Factbook abbreviations consolidated into
a new Appendix A. Two new appendices present a Cross-Reference List of
Country Data Codes and a Cross-Reference List of Hydrogeographic Data
Codes. Geographic coordinates added to Appendix H, Cross-Reference List
of Geographic Names. Factbook size expands by 95 pages in one year to
reach 652.

1997--A special edition for the CIA's 50 th anniversary. A schema or
Guide to Country Profiles introduced. New color maps and flags now
accompany each country profile. Category headings distinguished by
shaded backgrounds. Number of categories expanded to nine--the current
number--with the addition of an Introduction (for only a few
countries) and Transnational Issues (which includes Disputes--
international and Illicit drugs). The World Factbook introduced onto
the Internet.

1998--The Introduction category with two entries, Current issues and
Historical perspective, expanded to more countries. Last year for the
production of CD-ROM versions of the Factbook.

1999--Historical perspective and Current issues entries in the
Introduction category combined into a new Background statement. Several
new Economy entries introduced. A new physical map of the world added
to the back-of-the-book reference maps.

2000--A new "country profile" added on the Southern Ocean. The
Background statements dramatically expanded to over 200 countries and
possessions. A number of new Communications entries added.

2001--Background entries completed for all 267 entities in the
Factbook. Several new HIV/AIDS entries introduced under the People
category. Revision begun on individual country maps to include
elevation extremes and a partial geographic grid. Weights and Measures
appendix deleted.

2002--New entry on Distribution of Family income--Gini index added.
Revision of individual country maps continued (process still ongoing).

2003--In the Economy category, petroleum entries added for oil
production, consumption, exports, imports, and proved reserves, as well
as natural gas proved reserves.

2004--Additional petroleum entries included for natural gas
production, consumption, exports, and imports. In the Transportation
category, under Merchant marine, subfields added for foreign-owned
vessels and those registered in other countries. Descriptions of the
many forms of government mentioned in the Factbook incorporated into
the Notes and Definitions.

2005--In the People category, a Major infectious diseases field added
for countries deemed to pose a higher risk for travelers. In the
Economy category, entries included for Current account balance,
Investment, Public debt, and Reserves of foreign exchange and gold. The
Transnational issues category expanded to include Refugees and
internally displaced persons. Category headings receive distinctive
colored backgrounds. These distinguishing colors are used in both the
printed and online versions of the Factbook. Size of the printed
Factbook reaches 702 pages.

2006--In the Economy category, national GDP figures now presented at
Official Exchange Rates (OER) in addition to GDP at purchasing power
parity (PPP).

2007--In the Government category, the Capital entry significantly
expanded with up to four subfields, including new information having to
do with time. The subfields consist of the name of the capital itself,
its geographic coordinates , the time difference at the capital from
coordinated universal time (UTC), and, if applicable, information on
daylight saving time (DST). Where appropriate, a special note is added
to highlight those countries with multiple time zones. A Trafficking in
persons entry added to the Transnational issues category. A new
appendix, Weights and Measures, (re)introduced to the online version of
the Factbook.

2008--In the Geography category, two fields focus on the increasingly
vital resource of water: Total renewable water resources and Freshwater
withdrawal. In the Economy category, three fields added for: Stock of
direct foreign investment--at home, Stock of direct foreign
investment--abroad, and Market value of publicly traded shares. Concise
descriptions of the major religions mentioned in the Factbook included
in the Notes and Definitions.


This page was last updated on 8 October, 2008



=======================================================================




CIA - The World Factbook -- Contributors and Copyright Information


The World Factbook is prepared by the Central Intelligence Agency
for the use of US Government officials, and the style, format,
coverage, and content are designed to meet their specific
requirements. Information is provided by Antarctic Information
Program (National Science Foundation), Bureau of the Census
(Department of Commerce), Bureau of Labor Statistics (Department of
Labor), Central Intelligence Agency, Council of Managers of National
Antarctic Programs, Defense Intelligence Agency (Department of
Defense), Department of Energy, Department of State, Fish and
Wildlife Service (Department of the Interior), Maritime
Administration (Department of Transportation), National Center for
Medical Intelligence (Department of Defense), National
Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (Department of Defense), Naval
Facilities Engineering Command (Department of Defense), Office of
Insular Affairs (Department of the Interior), Office of Naval
Intelligence (Department of Defense), US Board on Geographic Names
(Department of the Interior), US Transportation Command (Department
of Defense), Oil & Gas Journal, and other public and private sources.

The Factbook is in the public domain. Accordingly, it may be copied
freely without permission of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA).
The official seal of the CIA, however, may NOT be copied without
permission as required by the CIA Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. section
403m).  Misuse of the official seal of the CIA could result in civil
and criminal penalties.

Comments and queries are welcome and may be addressed to:

  Central Intelligence Agency
  Attn.: Office of Public Affairs
  Washington, DC 20505
  Hours: Monday-Friday 8:00 AM-4:30 PM Eastern Standard Time
  Telephone: [1] (703) 482-0623
  FAX: [1] (703) 482-1739



=====================================================================




CIA - The World Factbook -- Purchasing Information


The Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) publishes The World Factbook
in printed and Internet versions. US Government officials may obtain
information about availability of the Factbook from their
organizations or through liaison channels to the CIA. Other users
may obtain sales information about printed copies from the following:

US Government Printing Office
732 N. Capitol St.
Washington, DC 20401
Hours: Monday-Friday 7:00 AM-6:30 PM Eastern Standard Time (EST)
Telephone: [1] (202) 512-1800; toll free: [1] (866) 512-1800
FAX: [1] (202) 512-2104
http://bookstore.gpo.gov/

National Technical Information Service
5285 Port Royal Road
Springfield, VA 22161
Hours: Monday-Friday 8:00 AM-6:00 PM Eastern Standard Time (EST)
Telephone: [1] (800) 553-6847 (only in the US);
[1] (703) 605-6000 (for outside US)
FAX: [1] (703) 605-6900
http://www.ntis.gov/

The World Factbook can be accessed on the Internet at:
https://www.cia.gov/library/publications/the-world-factbook/index.html



=====================================================================



CIA - The World Factbook -- FAQs



Frequently Asked Questions

The World Factbook staff thanks you for your comments, suggestions,
updates, kudos, and corrections over the past years. The willingness
of readers from around the world to share their observations and
specialized knowledge is very helpful as we try to produce the best
possible publications. Please feel free to continue to write and
e-mail us. When submitting corrections or updates to the Factbook,
please include your source(s) of information. At least two Factbook
staffers review every submitted item. The sheer volume of
correspondence precludes detailed personal replies, but we sincerely
appreciate your time and interest in the Factbook. If you include
your e-mail address we will at least acknowledge your note. Thank
you again.

Answers to many frequently asked questions (FAQs) are explained in
the Notes and Definitions section in The World Factbook. Please
review this section to see if your question is already answered
there. In addition, we have compiled the following list of FAQs to
answer other common questions. Select from the following categories
to narrow your search:

General
Geography
Spelling and Pronunciation
Policies and Procedures
Technical


General


Can you provide additional information for a specific country?

The staff cannot provide data beyond what appears in The World
Factbook. The format and information in the Factbook are tailored to
the specific requirements of US Government officials and content is
focused on their current and anticipated needs. The staff welcomes
suggestions for new entries.

How often is The World Factbook updated?

Formerly our Web site (and the published Factbook) were only updated
annually. Beginning in November 2001 we instituted a new system of
more frequent online updates. The World Factbook is currently
updated every two weeks.

The annual printed version of the Factbook is usually released about
midyear. US Government officials may obtain information about
Factbook availability from their own organizations or through
liaison channels to the CIA. Other users may obtain sales
information through the following channels:

Superintendent of Documents
P. O. Box 371954 Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954
Telephone: [1] (202) 512-1800
FAX: [1] (202) 512-2250
http://bookstore.gpo.gov

National Technical Information Service
5285 Port Royal Road Springfield, VA 22161
Telephone: [1] (800) 553-6847 (only in the US);
[1] (703) 605-6000 (for outside US)
FAX: [1] (703) 605-6900
http://www.ntis.gov

Can I use some or all of The World Factbook for my Web site (book,
research project, homework, etc.)?

The World Factbook is in the public domain and may be used freely by
anyone at anytime without seeking permission. However, US Code
prohibits use of the CIA seal in a manner which implies that the CIA
approved, endorsed, or authorized such use. If you have any
questions about your intended use, you should consult with legal
counsel. Further information on The World Factbook's use is
described on the Contributors and Copyright Information page. As a
courtesy, please cite The World Factbook when used.

Why doesn't The World Factbook include information on states,
departments, provinces, etc., in the country format?

The World Factbook provides national-level information on countries,
territories, and dependencies, but not subnational administrative
units within a country. A good encyclopedia should provide
state/province-level information.

Is it possible to access older editions of The World Factbook to do
comparative research and trend analysis?

Previous versions of the Factbook, beginning with the 2000 edition,
are available for downloading - but not browsing - on the CIA Web
site. Hardcopy editions for earlier years are available from
libraries.

Would it be possible to set up a partnership or collaboration
between the producers of The World Factbook and other organizations
or individuals?

The World Factbook does not partner with other organizations or
individuals, but we do welcome comments and suggestions that such
groups or persons choose to provide.



Geography


I can't find a geographic name for a particular country. Why not?

The World Factbook is not a gazetteer (a dictionary or index of
places, usually with descriptive or statistical information) and
cannot provide more than the names of the administrative divisions
(in the Government category) and major cities/towns (on the country
maps). Our expanded Cross-Reference List of Geographic Names,
however, includes many of the world's major geographic features as
well as historic (former) names of countries and cities mentioned in
The World Factbook.

Why are Taiwan and the European Union listed out of alphabetical
order at the end of the Factbook entries?

Taiwan is listed after the regular entries because even though the
mainland People's Republic of China claims Taiwan, elected Taiwanese
authorities de facto administer the island and reject mainland
sovereignty claims. With the establishment of diplomatic relations
with China on January 1, 1979, the US Government recognized the
People's Republic of China as the sole legal government of China,
acknowledging the Chinese position that there is only one China and
that Taiwan is part of China.

The European Union (EU) is not a country, but it has taken on many
nation-like attributes and these are likely to be expanded in the
future. A more complete explanation on the inclusion of the EU into
the Factbook may be found in the Preliminary statement.

Since we have an ambassador who represents the US at the Vatican,
why is this entity not listed in the Factbook?

Vatican City is found under Holy See. The term "Holy See" refers to
the authority, jurisdiction, and sovereignty vested in the Pope and
his advisors to direct the worldwide Catholic Church. The Holy See
has a legal personality that allows it to enter into treaties as the
juridical equal of a state and to send and receive diplomatic
representatives. Vatican City, created in 1929 to administer
properties belonging to the Holy See in Rome, is recognized under
international law as a sovereign state, but it does not send or
receive diplomatic representatives. Consequently, Holy See is
included as a Factbook entry, with Vatican City cross-referenced in
the Geographic Names appendix.

Why is Palestine not listed in The World Factbook?

The areas that could potentially form a future Palestinian state --
the West Bank and Gaza Strip -- do appear in the Factbook. These
areas are presently Israeli-occupied with current status subject to
the Israeli-Palestinian 1995 Interim Agreement; their permanent
status is to be determined through further negotiation.

Why are the Golan Heights not shown as part of Israel or Northern
Cyprus with Turkey?

Territorial occupations/annexations not recognized by the United
States Government are not shown on US Government maps.

Why don't you include information on entities such as Tibet or
Kashmir?

The World Factbook provides information on the administrative
divisions of a country as recommended by the United States Board on
Geographic Names (BGN). The BGN is a component of the US Government
that develops policies, principles, and procedures governing the
spelling, use, and application of geographic names--domestic,
foreign, Antarctic, and undersea. Its decisions enable all
departments and agencies of the US Government to have access to
uniform names of geographic features.

Also included in the Factbook are entries on parts of the world
whose status has not yet been resolved (e.g., West Bank, Spratly
Islands). Specific regions within a country or areas in dispute
among countries are not covered.

What do you mean when you say that a country is "doubly landlocked"?

A doubly landlocked country is one that is separated from an ocean
or an ocean-accessible sea by two intervening countries. Uzbekistan
and Liechtenstein are the only countries that fit this definition.

Why is the area of the United States described as "slightly larger
than China" in the Factbook , while other sources list China as
larger in area than the United States?

It all depends on whether one is looking at total area (land and
water) when making the comparison (which is the criterion used by
the Factbook) or just land area (which excludes inland water
features such as rivers or lakes).

Total area (combining land and water)

United States = 9,826,630 sq km
China = 9,596,960 sq km

Land only (without any water features)

United States = 9,161,923 sq km
China = 9,326,410 sq km

Why has The World Factbook dropped the four French departments of
Guadeloupe, Martinique, Reunion, and French Guiana?

The reason the four entities are no longer in The World Factbook is
because their status has changed. While they are overseas
departments of France, they are also now recognized as French
regions, having equal status to the 22 metropolitan regions that
make up European France. In other words, they are now recognized as
being part of France proper. Their status is somewhat analogous to
Alaska and Hawaii vis-a-vis the contiguous United States. Although
separated from the larger geographic entity, they are still
considered to be an integral part of it.


Spelling and Pronunciation

Why is the spelling of proper names such as rulers, presidents, and
prime ministers in The World Factbook different than their spelling
in my country?

The Factbook staff applies the names and spellings from the Chiefs
of State link on the CIA Web site. The World Factbook is prepared
using the standard American English computer keyboard and does not
use any special characters, symbols, or most diacritical markings in
its spellings. Surnames are always spelled with capital letters;
they may appear first in some cultures.

The spelling of geographic names, features, cities, administrative
divisions, etc. in the Factbook differs from those used in my
country. Why is this?

The United States Board on Geographic Names (BGN) recommends and
approves names and spellings. The BGN is the component of the United
States Government that develops policies, principles, and procedures
governing the spelling, use, and application of geographic
names--domestic, foreign, Antarctic, and undersea. Its decisions
enable all departments and agencies of the US Government to use
uniform names of geographic features. (A note is usually included
where changes may have occurred but have not yet been approved by
the BGN). The World Factbook is prepared using the standard American
English computer keyboard and does not use any special characters,
symbols, or most diacritical markings in its spellings.

Why doesn't The World Factbook include pronunciations of country or
leader names?

There are too many variations in pronunciation among
English-speaking countries, not to mention English renditions of
non-English names, for pronunciations to be included. American
English pronunciations are included for some countries like Qatar
and Kiribati.

Why is the name of the Labour party misspelled?

When American and British spellings of common English words differ,
The World Factbook always uses the American spelling, even when
these common words form part of a proper name in British English.


Policies and Procedures

What is The World Factbook's source for a specific subject field?

The Factbook staff uses many different sources to publish what we
judge are the most reliable and consistent data for any particular
category. Space considerations preclude a listing of these various
sources.

The names of some geographic features provided in the Factbook
differ from those used in other publications. For example, in Asia
the Factbook has Burma as the country name, but in other
publications Myanmar is used; also, the Factbook uses Sea of Japan
whereas other publications label it East Sea. What is your policy on
naming geographic features?

The Factbook staff follows the guidance of the United States Board
on Geographic Names (BGN). The BGN is the component of the United
States Government that develops policies, principles, and procedures
governing the spelling, use, and application of geographic
names--domestic, foreign, Antarctic, and undersea. Its decisions
enable all departments and agencies of the US Government to have
access to uniform names of geographic features. The position of the
BGN is that the names Burma and Sea of Japan be used in official US
Government maps and publications.

Why is most of the statistical information in the Factbook given in
metric units, rather than the units standard to US measure?

US Federal agencies are required by the Metric Conversion Act of
1975 (Public Law 94-168) and by Executive Order 12770 of July 1991
to use the International System of Units, commonly referred to as
the metric system or SI. In addition, the metric system is used by
over 95 percent of the world's population.

Why don't you include information on minimum and maximum temperature
extremes?

The Factbook staff judges that this information would only be useful
for some (generally smaller) countries. Larger countries can have
large temperature extremes that do not represent the landmass as a
whole. In the future, such a category may be adopted listing the
extremes, but also adding a normal temperature range found
throughout most of a country's territory.

What information sources are used for the country flags?

Flag designs used in The World Factbook are those recognized by the
protocol office of the US Department of State.

Why do your GDP (Gross Domestic Product) statistics differ from
other sources?

We have two sets of GDP dollar estimates in The World Factbook , one
derived from purchasing power parity (PPP) calculations and the
other derived using official exchange rates (OER). Other sources
probably use one of the two. See the Notes and Definitions section
on GDP and GDP methodology for more information.

On the CIA Web site, Chiefs of State is updated weekly, but the last
update for the Factbook was an earlier date. Why the discrepancy?

Although Chiefs of State and The World Factbook both appear on the
CIA Web site, they are produced and updated by separate staffs.
Chiefs of State includes fewer countries but more leaders, and is
updated more frequently than The World Factbook, which has a much
larger database, and includes all countries.

Some percentage distributions do not add to 100. Why not?

Because of rounding, percentage distributions do not always add
precisely to 100%. Rounding of numbers always results in a loss of
precision--i.e., error. This error becomes apparent when percentage
data are totaled, as the following two examples show:




                Original Data      Rounded to whole integer

Example 1                43.2                            43
                         30.4                            30
                         26.4                            26
                         ----                            --
                        100.0                            99

Example 2                42.8                            43
                         31.6                            32
                         25.6                            26
                         ----                            --
                        100.0                           101


When this occurs, we do not force the numbers to add exactly to 100,
because doing so would introduce additional error into the
distribution.

What rounding convention does The World Factbook use?

In deciding on the number of digits to present, the Factbook staff
assesses the accuracy of the original data and the needs of US
Government officials. All of the economic data are processed by
computer--either at the source or by the Factbook staff. The economic
data presented in The Factbook, therefore, follow the rounding
convention used by virtually all numerical software applications,
namely, any digit followed by a "5" is rounded up to the next higher
digit, no matter whether the original digit is even or odd. Thus,
for example, when rounded to the nearest integer, 2.5 becomes 3,
rather than 2, as occurred in some pre-computer rounding systems.

Why do you list "Independence" dates for countries like France,
Germany, and the United Kingdom?

For most countries, this entry presents the date that sovereignty
was achieved and from which nation, empire, or trusteeship. For
other countries, the date may be some other significant nationhood
event such as the traditional founding date or the date of
unification, federation, confederation, establishment, or state
succession and so may not strictly be an "Independence" date.
Dependent entities have the nature of their dependency status noted
in this same entry.


Technical

Does The World Factbook comply with Section 508 of the
Rehabilitation Act regarding accessibility of Web pages?

The World Factbook home page has a link entitled "Text/Low Bandwidth
Version." The country data in the text version is fully accessible.
We believe The World Factbook is compliant with the Section 508 law
in both fact and spirit. If you are experiencing difficulty, please
use our comment form to provide us details of the specific problem
you are experiencing and the assistive software and/or hardware that
you are using so that we can work with our technical support staff
to find and implement a solution. We welcome visitors' suggestions
to improve accessibility of The World Factbook and the CIA Web site.

I am using the Factbook online and it is not working. What is wrong?

Hundreds of "Factbook" look-alikes exist on the Internet. The
Factbook site at: www.cia.gov is the only official site.

When I attempt to download a PDF (Portable Document Format) map file
(or some other map) the file has no image. Can you fix this?

Some of the files on The World Factbook Web site are large and could
take several minutes to download on a dial-up connection. The screen
might be blank during the download process.

When I open a map on The World Factbook site, it is fuzzy or
granular, or too big or too small. Why?

Adjusting the resolution setting on your monitor should correct this
problem.

Is The World Factbook country data available in machine-readable
format? All I can find is HTML, but I'm looking for simple tabular
data.

The Factbook Web site now features "Rank Order" pages for selected
Factbook entries. "Rank Order" pages are available for those data
fields identified with a small bar chart icon located next to the
title of the data entry. In addition, all of the "Rank Order" pages
can be downloaded as tab-delimited data files that can be opened in
other applications such as spreadsheets and databases.



=====================================================================



@Afghanistan

Introduction
Afghanistan



Background:

Ahmad Shah DURRANI unified the Pashtun tribes and founded
Afghanistan in 1747. The country served as a buffer between the
British and Russian empires until it won independence from notional
British control in 1919. A brief experiment in democracy ended in a
1973 coup and a 1978 Communist counter-coup. The Soviet Union
invaded in 1979 to support the tottering Afghan Communist regime,
touching off a long and destructive war. The USSR withdrew in 1989
under relentless pressure by internationally supported
anti-Communist mujahedin rebels. A series of subsequent civil wars
saw Kabul finally fall in 1996 to the Taliban, a hardline
Pakistani-sponsored movement that emerged in 1994 to end the
country's civil war and anarchy. Following the 11 September 2001
terrorist attacks in New York City, a US, Allied, and anti-Taliban
Northern Alliance military action toppled the Taliban for sheltering
Osama BIN LADIN. The UN-sponsored Bonn Conference in 2001
established a process for political reconstruction that included the
adoption of a new constitution, a presidential election in 2004, and
National Assembly elections in 2005. In December 2004, Hamid KARZAI
became the first democratically elected president of Afghanistan and
the National Assembly was inaugurated the following December.
Despite gains toward building a stable central government, a
resurgent Taliban and continuing provincial instability -
particularly in the south and the east - remain serious challenges
for the Afghan Government.


Geography
Afghanistan



Location:

Southern Asia, north and west of Pakistan, east of Iran


Geographic coordinates:

33 00 N, 65 00 E


Map references:

Asia


Area:

total: 647,500 sq km
land: 647,500 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Texas


Land boundaries:

total: 5,529 km
border countries: China 76 km, Iran 936 km, Pakistan 2,430 km,
Tajikistan 1,206 km, Turkmenistan 744 km, Uzbekistan 137 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

arid to semiarid; cold winters and hot summers


Terrain:

mostly rugged mountains; plains in north and southwest


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Amu Darya 258 m
highest point: Nowshak 7,485 m


Natural resources:

natural gas, petroleum, coal, copper, chromite, talc, barites,
sulfur, lead, zinc, iron ore, salt, precious and semiprecious stones


Land use:

arable land: 12.13%
permanent crops: 0.21%
other: 87.66% (2005)


Irrigated land:

27,200 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

65 cu km (1997)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 23.26 cu km/yr (2%/0%/98%)
per capita: 779 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

damaging earthquakes occur in Hindu Kush mountains; flooding;
droughts


Environment - current issues:

limited natural fresh water resources; inadequate supplies of
potable water; soil degradation; overgrazing; deforestation (much of
the remaining forests are being cut down for fuel and building
materials); desertification; air and water pollution


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered
Species, Environmental Modification, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
Protection
signed, but not ratified: Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
Life Conservation


Geography - note:

landlocked; the Hindu Kush mountains that run northeast to southwest
divide the northern provinces from the rest of the country; the
highest peaks are in the northern Vakhan (Wakhan Corridor)


People
Afghanistan



Population:

32,738,376 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 44.6% (male 7,474,394/female 7,121,145)
15-64 years: 53% (male 8,901,880/female 8,447,983)
65 years and over: 2.4% (male 383,830/female 409,144) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 17.6 years
male: 17.6 years
female: 17.6 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.626% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

45.82 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

19.56 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

21 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.94 male(s)/female
total population: 1.05 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 154.67 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 158.88 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 150.24 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 44.21 years
male: 44.04 years
female: 44.39 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

6.58 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.01% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne disease: malaria
animal contact disease: rabies
note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Afghan(s)
adjective: Afghan


Ethnic groups:

Pashtun 42%, Tajik 27%, Hazara 9%, Uzbek 9%, Aimak 4%, Turkmen 3%,
Baloch 2%, other 4%


Religions:

Sunni Muslim 80%, Shia Muslim 19%, other 1%


Languages:

Afghan Persian or Dari (official) 50%, Pashto (official) 35%, Turkic
languages (primarily Uzbek and Turkmen) 11%, 30 minor languages
(primarily Balochi and Pashai) 4%, much bilingualism


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 28.1%
male: 43.1%
female: 12.6% (2000 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 8 years
male: 11 years
female: 4 years (2004)


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Afghanistan



Country name:

conventional long form: Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
conventional short form: Afghanistan
local long form: Jomhuri-ye Eslami-ye Afghanestan
local short form: Afghanestan
former: Republic of Afghanistan


Government type:

Islamic republic


Capital:

name: Kabul
geographic coordinates: 34 31 N, 69 11 E
time difference: UTC+4.5 (9.5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

34 provinces (velayat, singular - velayat); Badakhshan, Badghis,
Baghlan, Balkh, Bamyan, Daykundi, Farah, Faryab, Ghazni, Ghor,
Helmand, Herat, Jowzjan, Kabul, Kandahar, Kapisa, Khost, Kunar,
Kunduz, Laghman, Logar, Nangarhar, Nimroz, Nuristan, Paktika,
Paktiya, Panjshir, Parwan, Samangan, Sar-e Pul, Takhar, Uruzgan,
Wardak, Zabul


Independence:

19 August 1919 (from UK control over Afghan foreign affairs)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 19 August (1919)


Constitution:

new constitution drafted 14 December 2003-4 January 2004; signed 16
January 2004


Legal system:

based on mixed civil and Sharia law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
Hamid KARZAI (since 7 December 2004); Vice Presidents Ahmad Zia
MASOOD and Abdul Karim KHALILI (since 7 December 2004); note - the
president is both the chief of state and head of government; former
King ZAHIR Shah held the honorific, "Father of the Country," and
presided symbolically over certain occasions but lacked any
governing authority; the honorific is not hereditary; King ZAHIR
Shah died on 23 July 2007
head of government: President of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
Hamid KARZAI (since 7 December 2004); Vice Presidents Ahmad Zia
MASOOD and Abdul Karim KHALILI (since 7 December 2004)
cabinet: 25 ministers; note - under the new constitution, ministers
are appointed by the president and approved by the National Assembly
elections: the president and two vice presidents are elected by
direct vote for a five-year term (eligible for a second term); if no
candidate receives 50% or more of the vote in the first round of
voting, the two candidates with the most votes will participate in a
second round; a president can only be elected for two terms;
election last held 9 October 2004 (next to be held in 2009)
election results: Hamid KARZAI elected president; percent of vote -
Hamid KARZAI 55.4%, Yunus QANUNI 16.3%, Ustad Mohammad MOHAQQEQ
11.6%, Abdul Rashid DOSTAM 10.0%, Abdul Latif PEDRAM 1.4%, Masooda
JALAL 1.2%


Legislative branch:

the bicameral National Assembly consists of the Wolesi Jirga or
House of People (no more than 249 seats), directly elected for
five-year terms, and the Meshrano Jirga or House of Elders (102
seats, one-third elected from provincial councils for four-year
terms, one-third elected from local district councils for three-year
terms, and one-third nominated by the president for five-year terms)
note: on rare occasions the government may convene a Loya Jirga
(Grand Council) on issues of independence, national sovereignty, and
territorial integrity; it can amend the provisions of the
constitution and prosecute the president; it is made up of members
of the National Assembly and chairpersons of the provincial and
district councils
elections: last held 18 September 2005 (next to be held for the
Wolesi Jirga by September 2009; next to be held for the provincial
councils to the Meshrano Jirga by September 2008)
election results: the single non-transferable vote (SNTV) system
used in the election did not make use of political party slates;
most candidates ran as independents


Judicial branch:

the constitution establishes a nine-member Stera Mahkama or Supreme
Court (its nine justices are appointed for 10-year terms by the
president with approval of the Wolesi Jirga) and subordinate High
Courts and Appeals Courts; there is also a minister of justice; a
separate Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission established by
the Bonn Agreement is charged with investigating human rights abuses
and war crimes


Political parties and leaders:

Afghanistan Peoples' Treaty Party [Sayyed Amir TAHSEEN];
Afghanistan's Islamic Mission Organization [Abdul Rasoul SAYYAF];
Afghanistan's Islamic Nation Party [Toran Noor Aqa Ahmad ZAI];
Afghanistan's National Islamic Party [Rohullah LOUDIN];
Afghanistan's Welfare Party [Meer Asef ZAEEFI]; Afghan Social
Democratic Party [Anwarul Haq AHADI]; Afghan Society for the Call to
the Koran and Sunna [Mawlawee Samiullah NAJEEBEE]; Comprehensive
Movement of Democracy and Development of Afghanistan Party [Sher
Mohammad BAZGAR]; Democratic Party of Afghanistan [Tawos ARAB];
Democratic Party of Afghanistan [Abdul Kabir RANJBAR]; Elites People
of Afghanistan Party [Abdul Hamid JAWAD]; Freedom and Democracy
Movement of Afghanistan [Abdul Raqib Jawid KOHISTANEE]; Freedom
Party of Afghanistan [Ilaj Abdul MALEK]; Freedom Party of
Afghanistan [Dr. Ghulam Farooq NEJRABEE]; Hizullah-e-Afghanistan
[Qari Ahmad ALI]; Human Rights Protection and Development Party of
Afghanistan [Baryalai NASRATI]; Islamic Justice Party of Afghanistan
[Mohammad Kabir MARZBAN]; Islamic Movement of Afghanistan [Mohammad
Ali JAWID]; Islamic Movement of Afghanistan Party [Mohammad Mukhtar
MUFLEH]; Islamic Party of Afghanistan [Mohammad Khalid FAROOQI];
Islamic Party of the Afghan Land [Mohammad Hassan FEROZKHEL];
Islamic People's Movement of Afghanistan [Ilhaj Said Hussain
ANWARY]; Islamic Society of Afghanistan [Ustad RABBANI]; Islamic
Unity of the Nation of Afghanistan Party [Qurban Ali URFANI];
Islamic Unity Party of Afghanistan [Mohammad Karim KHALILI]; Islamic
Unity Party of the People of Afghanistan [Ustad Mohammad MOHAQQEQ];
Labor and Progress of Afghanistan Party [Zulfiqar OMID]; Muslim
People of Afghanistan Party [Besmellah JOYAN]; Muslim Unity Movement
Party of Afghanistan [Wazir Mohammad WAHDAT]; National and Islamic
Sovereignty Movement Party of Afghanistan [Ahmad Shah AHMADZAI];
National Congress Party of Afghanistan [Abdul Latif PEDRAM];
National Country Party [Ghulam MOHAMMAD]; National Development Party
of Afghanistan [Dr. Aref BAKTASH]; National Freedom Seekers Party
[Abdul Hadi DABEER]; National Independence Party of Afghanistan [Taj
Mohammad WARDAK]; National Islamic Fighters Party of Afghanistan
[Amanat NINGARHAREE]; National Islamic Front of Afghanistan [Pir
Sayed Ahmad GAILANEE]; National Islamic Moderation Party of
Afghanistan [Qara Bik Eized YAAR]; National Islamic Movement of
Afghanistan [Sayed NOORULLAH]; National Islamic Unity Party of
Afghanistan [Mohammad AKBAREE]; National Movement of Afghanistan
[Ahmad Wali MASOOUD]; National Party of Afghanistan [Abdul Rashid
ARYAN]; National Patch of Afghanistan Party [Sayed Kamal SADAT];
National Peace Islamic Party of Afghanistan [Shah Mohammood Popal
ZAI]; National Peace & Islamic Party of the Tribes of Afghanistan
[Abdul Qaher SHARIATEE]; National Peace & Unity Party of Afghanistan
[Abdul Qader IMAMI]; National Prosperity and Islamic Party of
Afghanistan [Mohammad Osman SALEKZADA]; National Prosperity Party
[Mohammad Hassan JAHFAREE]; National Solidarity Movement of
Afghanistan [Pir Sayed Eshaq GAILANEE]; National Solidarity Party of
Afghanistan [Sayed Mansoor NADREEI]; National Sovereignty Party
[Sayed Mustafa KAZEMI]; National Stability Party [Mohammad Same
KHAROTI]; National Stance Party [Habibullah JANEBDAR]; National
Tribal Unity Islamic Party of Afghanistan [Mohammad Shah KHOGYANI];
National United Front [Burhanuddin RABBANI] (a coalition); National
Unity Movement [Sultan Mohammad GHAZI]; National Unity Movement of
Afghanistan [Mohammad Nadir AATASH]; National Unity Party of
Afghanistan [Abdul Rashid JALILI]; New Afghanistan Party [Mohammad
Yunis QANUNI]; Peace and National Welfare Activists Society [Shamsul
Haq Noor SHAMS]; Peace Movement [Shahnawaz TANAI]; People's
Aspirations Party of Afghanistan [Ilhaj Saraj-u-din ZAFAREE];
People's Freedom Seekers Party of Afghanistan [Feda Mohammad EHSAS];
People's Liberal Freedom Seekers Party of Afghanistan [Ajmal
SUHAIL]; People's Message Party of Afghanistan [Noor Aqa WAINEE];
People's Movement of the National Unity of Afghanistan [Abdul Hakim
NOORZAI]; People's Party of Afghanistan [Ahmad Shah ASAR]; People's
Prosperity Party of Afghanistan [Ustad Mohammad ZAREEF]; People's
Sovereignty Movement of Afghanistan [Hayatullah SUBHANEE]; People's
Uprising Party of Afghanistan [Sayed Zahir Qayed Omul BELADI];
People's Welfare Party of Afghanistan [Mia Gul WASIQ]; People's
Welfare Party of Afghanistan [Mohammad Zubair PAIROZ]; Progressive
Democratic Party of Afghanistan [Wali ARYA]; Republican Party
[Sebghatullah SANJAR]; Solidarity Party of Afghanistan [Abdul Khaleq
NEMAT]; The Afghanistan's Mujahid Nation's Islamic Unity Movement
[Saeedullah SAEED]; The People of Afghanistan's Democratic Movement
[Sharif NAZARI]; Tribes Solidarity Party of Afghanistan [Mohammad
Zarif NASERI]; Understanding and Democracy Party of Afghanistan
[Ahamad SHAHEEN]; United Afghanistan Party [Mohammad Wasil RAHIMEE];
United Islamic Party of Afghanistan [Wahidullah SABAWOON]; Young
Afghanistan's Islamic Organization [Sayed Jawad HUSSINEE]; Youth
Solidarity Party of Afghanistan [Mohammad Jamil KARZAI]; note -
includes only political parties approved by the Ministry of Justice


Political pressure groups and leaders:

other: religious groups; tribal leaders


International organization participation:

ADB, CP, ECO, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, IDA, IDB, IFAD,
IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO (correspondent), ITSO,
ITU, MIGA, NAM, OIC, OPCW, OSCE (partner), SAARC, SACEP, SCO
(guest), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO,
WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Said Tayeb JAWAD
chancery: 2341 Wyoming Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 483-6410
FAX: [1] (202) 483-6488
consulate(s) general: Los Angeles, New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador William B. WOOD
embassy: The Great Masood Road, Kabul
mailing address: U.S. Embassy Kabul, APO, AE 09806
telephone: [93] 0700 108 001
FAX: [93] 0700 108 564


Flag description:

three equal vertical bands of black (hoist side), red, and green,
with the national emblem in white centered on the red band and
slightly overlapping the other two bands; the center of the emblem
features a mosque with pulpit and flags on either side, below the
mosque are numerals for the solar year 1298 (1919 in the Gregorian
calendar, the year of Afghan independence from the UK); this central
image is circled by a border consisting of sheaves of wheat on the
left and right, in the upper-center is an Arabic inscription of the
Shahada (Muslim creed) below which are rays of the rising sun over
the Takbir (Arabic expression meaning "God is great"), and at bottom
center is a scroll bearing the name Afghanistan


Economy
Afghanistan



Economy - overview:

Afghanistan's economy is recovering from decades of conflict. The
economy has improved significantly since the fall of the Taliban
regime in 2001 largely because of the infusion of international
assistance, the recovery of the agricultural sector, and service
sector growth. Real GDP growth exceeded 7% in 2007. Despite the
progress of the past few years, Afghanistan is extremely poor,
landlocked, and highly dependent on foreign aid, agriculture, and
trade with neighboring countries. Much of the population continues
to suffer from shortages of housing, clean water, electricity,
medical care, and jobs. Criminality, insecurity, and the Afghan
Government's inability to extend rule of law to all parts of the
country pose challenges to future economic growth. It will probably
take the remainder of the decade and continuing donor aid and
attention to significantly raise Afghanistan's living standards from
its current level, among the lowest in the world. International
pledges made by more than 60 countries and international financial
institutions at the Berlin Donors Conference for Afghan
reconstruction in March 2004 reached $8.9 billion for 2004-09. While
the international community remains committed to Afghanistan's
development, pledging over $24 billion at three donors' conferences
since 2002, Kabul will need to overcome a number of challenges.
Expanding poppy cultivation and a growing opium trade generate
roughly $4 billion in illicit economic activity and looms as one of
Kabul's most serious policy concerns. Other long-term challenges
include: budget sustainability, job creation, corruption, government
capacity, and rebuilding war torn infrastructure.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$35 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$8.842 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

11.5% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$1,000 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 38%
industry: 24%
services: 38%
note: data exclude opium production (2005 est.)


Labor force:

15 million (2004 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 80%
industry: 10%
services: 10% (2004 est.)


Unemployment rate:

40% (2005 est.)


Population below poverty line:

53% (2003)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $715 million
expenditures: $2.6 billion
note: Afghanistan has also received $273 million from the
Reconstruction Trust Fund and $63 million from the Law and Order
Trust Fund (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

21 March - 20 March


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

13% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

NA


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

18.14% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$1.426 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$958.6 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$20.06 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

opium, wheat, fruits, nuts; wool, mutton, sheepskins, lambskins


Industries:

small-scale production of textiles, soap, furniture, shoes,
fertilizer, cement; handwoven carpets; natural gas, coal, copper


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

839 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

1.088 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

230 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 36.3%
hydro: 63.7%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

5,036 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

4,534 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

20 million cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

20 million cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

49.55 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

NA


Exports:

$274 million; note - not including illicit exports or reexports
(2006)


Exports - commodities:

opium, fruits and nuts, handwoven carpets, wool, cotton, hides and
pelts, precious and semi-precious gems


Exports - partners:

India 22.8%, Pakistan 21.8%, US 20.5%, Tajikistan 7.2% (2007)


Imports:

$3.823 billion (2006)


Imports - commodities:

capital goods, food, textiles, petroleum products


Imports - partners:

Pakistan 36.8%, US 11%, India 5%, Germany 4.2% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$2.775 billion (2005)


Debt - external:

$8 billion in bilateral debt, mostly to Russia; Afghanistan has $500
million in debt to Multilateral Development Banks (2004)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

afghani (AFA)


Currency code:

AFA


Exchange rates:

afghanis (AFA) per US dollar - NA (2007), 46 (2006), 47.7 (2005), 48
(2004), 49 (2003)


Communications
Afghanistan



Telephones - main lines in use:

280,000 (2005)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

5.4 million (2008)


Telephone system:

general assessment: limited landline telephone service; an
increasing number of Afghans utilize mobile-cellular phone networks
in major cities
domestic: aided by the presence of multiple providers,
mobile-cellular telephone service is improving rapidly
international: country code - 93; five VSAT's installed in Kabul,
Herat, Mazar-e-Sharif, Kandahar, and Jalalabad provide international
and domestic voice and data connectivity (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 21, FM 5, shortwave 1 (broadcasts in Pashto, Dari (Afghan
Persian), Urdu, and English) (2006)


Radios:

167,000 (1999)


Television broadcast stations:

at least 7 (1 government-run central television station in Kabul and
regional stations in 6 of the 34 provinces) (2006)


Televisions:

100,000 (1999)


Internet country code:

.af


Internet hosts:

31 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

580,000 (2007)


Communications - note:

Internet access is growing through Internet cafes as well as public
"telekiosks" in Kabul (2005)


Transportation
Afghanistan



Airports:

46 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 12
over 3,047 m: 4
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 34
over 3,047 m: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 4
1,524 to 2,437 m: 16
914 to 1,523 m: 4
under 914 m: 9 (2007)


Heliports:

9 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 466 km (2007)


Roadways:

total: 42,150 km
paved: 12,350 km
unpaved: 29,800 km (2006)


Waterways:

1,200 km (chiefly Amu Darya, which handles vessels up to 500 DWT)
(2007)


Ports and terminals:

Kheyrabad, Shir Khan


Military
Afghanistan



Military branches:

Afghan Armed Forces: Afghan National Army (ANA, includes Afghan
National Army Air Corps) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

22 years of age; inductees are contracted into service for a 4-year
term (2005)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 7,431,147
females age 16-49: 7,004,819 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 4,234,180
females age 16-49: 3,946,685 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 371,451
female: 351,295 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.9% of GDP (2006 est.)


Transnational Issues
Afghanistan



Disputes - international:

Pakistan has built fences in some portions of its border with
Afghanistan which remains open in some areas to foreign terrorists
and other illegal activities


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

IDPs: 132,246 (mostly Pashtuns and Kuchis displaced in south and
west due to drought and instability) (2007)


Illicit drugs:

world's largest producer of opium; poppy cultivation increased 17%
to a near-record 202,000 hectares in 2007; good growing conditions
pushed potential opium production to a record 8,000 metric tons, up
42% from last year; if the entire opium crop were processed, 947
metric tons of heroin potentially could be produced; drug trade is a
source of instability and the Taliban and other antigovernment
groups participate in and profit from the drug trade; widespread
corruption impedes counterdrug efforts; most of the heroin consumed
in Europe and Eurasia is derived from Afghan opium; vulnerable to
drug money laundering through informal financial networks; regional
source of hashish



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Akrotiri

Introduction
Akrotiri



Background:

By terms of the 1960 Treaty of Establishment that created the
independent Republic of Cyprus, the UK retained full sovereignty and
jurisdiction over two areas of almost 254 square kilometers -
Akrotiri and Dhekelia. The southernmost and smallest of these is the
Akrotiri Sovereign Base Area, which is also referred to as the
Western Sovereign Base Area.


Geography
Akrotiri



Location:

Eastern Mediterranean, peninsula on the southwest coast of Cyprus


Geographic coordinates:

34 37 N, 32 58 E


Map references:

Middle East


Area:

total: 123 sq km
note: includes a salt lake and wetlands


Area - comparative:

about 0.7 times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

total: 47.4 km
border countries: Cyprus 47.4 km


Coastline:

56.3 km


Climate:

temperate; Mediterranean with hot, dry summers and cool winters


Environment - current issues:

shooting around the salt lake; note - breeding place for loggerhead
and green turtles; only remaining colony of griffon vultures is on
the base


Geography - note:

British extraterritorial rights also extended to several small
off-post sites scattered across Cyprus; of the Sovereign Base Area
land, 60% is privately owned and farmed, 20% is owned by the
Ministry of Defense, and 20% is SBA Crown land


People
Akrotiri



Population:

approximately 15,700 live on the Sovereign Base Areas of Akrotiri
and Dhekelia including 7,700 Cypriots, 3,600 Service and UK-based
contract personnel, and 4,400 dependents


Languages:

English, Greek


Government
Akrotiri



Country name:

conventional long form: Akrotiri Sovereign Base Area
conventional short form: Akrotiri


Dependency status:

a special form of UK overseas territory; administered by an
administrator who is also the Commander, British Forces Cyprus


Capital:

name: Episkopi Cantonment (base administrative center for Akrotiri
and Dhekelia)
geographic coordinates: 34 40 N, 32 51 E
time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Constitution:

Sovereign Base Areas of Akrotiri and Dhekelia Order in Council 1960,
effective 16 August 1960, functions as a basic legal document


Legal system:

the Sovereign Base Area Administration has its own court system to
deal with civil and criminal matters; laws applicable to the Cypriot
population are, as far as possible, the same as the laws of the
Republic of Cyprus


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952)
head of government: Administrator Air Vice-Marshal Richard LACEY
(since 26 April 2006); note - reports to the British Ministry of
Defense
elections: none; the monarch is hereditary; the administrator is
appointed by the monarch


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


Flag description:

the flag of the UK is used


Economy
Akrotiri



Economy - overview:

Economic activity is limited to providing services to the military
and their families located in Akrotiri. All food and manufactured
goods must be imported.


Currency (code):

euro (EUR) adopted 1 January 2008; note - the Cypriot pound (CYP)
formerly used


Exchange rates:

euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.4286 (2007), 0.46019 (2006), 0.4641
(2005), 0.4686 (2004), 0.5174 (2003)


Communications
Akrotiri



Radio broadcast stations:

AM NA, FM 1, shortwave NA (British Forces Broadcasting Service
(BFBS) provides Radio 1 and Radio 2 service to Akrotiri, Dhekelia,
and Nicosia) (2006)


Television broadcast stations:

0 (British Forces Broadcasting Service (BFBS) provides multi-channel
satellite service to Akrotiri, Dhekelia, and Nicosia) (2006)



Military
Akrotiri



Military - note:

Akrotiri has a full RAF base, Headquarters for British Forces on
Cyprus, and Episkopi Support Unit




This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Albania

Introduction
Albania



Background:

Albania declared its independence from the Ottoman Empire in 1912,
but was conquered by Italy in 1939. Communist partisans took over
the country in 1944. Albania allied itself first with the USSR
(until 1960), and then with China (to 1978). In the early 1990s,
Albania ended 46 years of xenophobic Communist rule and established
a multiparty democracy. The transition has proven challenging as
successive governments have tried to deal with high unemployment,
widespread corruption, a dilapidated physical infrastructure,
powerful organized crime networks, and combative political
opponents. Albania has made progress in its democratic development
since first holding multiparty elections in 1991, but deficiencies
remain. International observers judged elections to be largely free
and fair since the restoration of political stability following the
collapse of pyramid schemes in 1997. In the 2005 general elections,
the Democratic Party and its allies won a decisive victory on
pledges of reducing crime and corruption, promoting economic growth,
and decreasing the size of government. The election, and
particularly the orderly transition of power, was considered an
important step forward. Although Albania's economy continues to
grow, the country is still one of the poorest in Europe, hampered by
a large informal economy and an inadequate energy and transportation
infrastructure. Albania has played a largely helpful role in
managing inter-ethnic tensions in southeastern Europe, and is
continuing to work toward joining NATO and the EU. Albania, with
troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, has been a strong supporter of the
global war on terrorism.


Geography
Albania



Location:

Southeastern Europe, bordering the Adriatic Sea and Ionian Sea,
between Greece in the south and Montenegro and Kosovo to the north


Geographic coordinates:

41 00 N, 20 00 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 28,748 sq km
land: 27,398 sq km
water: 1,350 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Maryland


Land boundaries:

total: 717 km
border countries: Greece 282 km, Macedonia 151 km, Montenegro 172
km, Kosovo 112 km


Coastline:

362 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation


Climate:

mild temperate; cool, cloudy, wet winters; hot, clear, dry summers;
interior is cooler and wetter


Terrain:

mostly mountains and hills; small plains along coast


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Adriatic Sea 0 m
highest point: Maja e Korabit (Golem Korab) 2,764 m


Natural resources:

petroleum, natural gas, coal, bauxite, chromite, copper, iron ore,
nickel, salt, timber, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 20.1%
permanent crops: 4.21%
other: 75.69% (2005)


Irrigated land:

3,530 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

41.7 cu km (2001)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 1.71 cu km/yr (27%/11%/62%)
per capita: 546 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

destructive earthquakes; tsunamis occur along southwestern coast;
floods; drought


Environment - current issues:

deforestation; soil erosion; water pollution from industrial and
domestic effluents


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

strategic location along Strait of Otranto (links Adriatic Sea to
Ionian Sea and Mediterranean Sea)


People
Albania



Population:

3,619,778 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 23.6% (male 447,126/female 406,757)
15-64 years: 66.9% (male 1,239,819/female 1,180,720)
65 years and over: 9.5% (male 160,241/female 185,115) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 29.5 years
male: 28.9 years
female: 30.2 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.538% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

15.22 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

5.44 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-4.41 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.1 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.1 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.87 male(s)/female
total population: 1.04 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 19.31 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 19.74 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 18.83 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 77.78 years
male: 75.12 years
female: 80.71 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.02 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Albanian(s)
adjective: Albanian


Ethnic groups:

Albanian 95%, Greek 3%, other 2% (Vlach, Roma (Gypsy), Serb,
Macedonian, Bulgarian) (1989 est.)
note: in 1989, other estimates of the Greek population ranged from
1% (official Albanian statistics) to 12% (from a Greek organization)


Religions:

Muslim 70%, Albanian Orthodox 20%, Roman Catholic 10%
note: percentages are estimates; there are no available current
statistics on religious affiliation; all mosques and churches were
closed in 1967 and religious observances prohibited; in November
1990, Albania began allowing private religious practice


Languages:

Albanian (official - derived from Tosk dialect), Greek, Vlach,
Romani, Slavic dialects


Literacy:

definition: age 9 and over can read and write
total population: 98.7%
male: 99.2%
female: 98.3% (2001 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 11 years
male: 11 years
female: 11 years (2004)


Education expenditures:

2.9% of GDP (2002)


Government
Albania



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Albania
conventional short form: Albania
local long form: Republika e Shqiperise
local short form: Shqiperia
former: People's Socialist Republic of Albania


Government type:

emerging democracy


Capital:

name: Tirana (Tirane)
geographic coordinates: 41 19 N, 19 49 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

12 counties (qarqe, singular - qark); Berat, Diber, Durres, Elbasan,
Fier, Gjirokaster, Korce, Kukes, Lezhe, Shkoder, Tirane, Vlore


Independence:

28 November 1912 (from the Ottoman Empire)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 28 November (1912)


Constitution:

adopted by popular referendum on 22 November 1998; promulgated 28
November 1998


Legal system:

has a civil law system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction; has accepted jurisdiction of the International
Criminal Court for its citizens


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President of the Republic Bamir TOPI (since 24 July
2007)
head of government: Prime Minister Sali BERISHA (since 10 September
2005)
cabinet: Council of Ministers proposed by the prime minister,
nominated by the president, and approved by parliament
elections: president elected by the People's Assembly for a
five-year term (eligible for a second term); four election rounds
held between 8 and 20 July 2007 (next election to be held in 2012);
prime minister appointed by the president
election results: Bamir TOPI elected president; People's Assembly
vote, fourth round (three-fifths majority (84 votes) required):
Bamir TOPI 85 votes, Neritan CEKA 5 votes


Legislative branch:

unicameral Assembly or Kuvendi (140 seats; 100 members are elected
by direct popular vote and 40 by proportional vote to serve
four-year terms)
elections: last held 3 July 2005 (next to be held in 2009)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - PD
56, PS 42, PR 11, PSD 7, LSI 5, other 19


Judicial branch:

Constitutional Court, Supreme Court (chairman is elected by the
People's Assembly for a four-year term), and multiple appeals and
district courts


Political parties and leaders:

Agrarian Environmentalist Party or PAA [Lufter XHUVELI]; Christian
Democratic Party or PDK [Nard NDOKA]; Communist Party of Albania or
PKSH [Hysni MILLOSHI]; Democratic Alliance Party or AD [Neritan
CEKA]; Democratic Party or PD [Sali BERISHA]; Legality Movement
Party or PLL [Ekrem SPAHIA]; Liberal Union Party or BLD [Arjan
STAROVA]; Movement for National Development or LZhK [Dashamir
SHEHI]; National Front Party (Balli Kombetar) or PBK [Artur ROSHI];
New Democratic Party or PDR [Genc POLLO]; Party of National Unity or
PUK [Idajet BEQIRI]; Republican Party or PR [Fatmir MEDIU]; Social
Democracy Party of Albania or PDSSh [Paskal MILO]; Social Democratic
Party or PSD [Skender GJINUSHI]; Socialist Movement for Integration
or LSI [Ilir META]; Socialist Party or PS [Edi RAMA]; Union for
Human Rights Party or PBDNj [Vangjel DULE]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Citizens Advocacy Office [Kreshnik SPAHIU]; Confederation of Trade
Unions of Albania or KSSH [Kastriot MUCO]; Front for Albanian
National Unification or FBKSH [Gafur ADILI]; Mjaft Movement; Omonia
[Jani JANI]; Union of Independent Trade Unions of Albania or BSPSH
[Gezim KALAJA]


International organization participation:

BSEC, CE, CEI, EAPC, EBRD, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA,
IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO
(correspondent), ITU, ITUC, MIGA, OIC, OIF, OPCW, OSCE, PFP, SECI,
UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNOMIG, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Aleksander SALLABANDA
chancery: 2100 S Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 223-4942
FAX: [1] (202) 628-7342


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Dr. John L. WITHERS, II
embassy: Rruga e Elbasanit, Labinoti #103, Tirana
mailing address: US Department of State, 9510 Tirana Place, Dulles,
VA 20189-9510
telephone: [355] (4) 2247285
FAX: [355] (4) 2232222


Flag description:

red with a black two-headed eagle in the center


Economy
Albania



Economy - overview:

Lagging behind its Balkan neighbors, Albania is making the difficult
transition to a more modern open-market economy. The government has
taken measures to curb violent crime, and recently adopted a fiscal
reform package aimed at reducing the large gray economy and
attracting foreign investment. The economy is bolstered by annual
remittances from abroad of $600-$800 million, mostly from Albanians
residing in Greece and Italy; this helps offset the towering trade
deficit. Agriculture, which accounts for more than one-fifth of GDP,
is held back because of lack of modern equipment, unclear property
rights, and the prevalence of small, inefficient plots of land.
Energy shortages and antiquated and inadequate infrastructure
contribute to Albania's poor business environment, which make it
difficult to attract and sustain foreign investment. The completion
of a new thermal power plant near Vlore and improved transmission
line between Albania and Montenegro will help relieve the energy
shortages. Also, the government is moving slowly to improve the poor
national road and rail network, a long-standing barrier to sustained
economic growth. On the positive side, macroeconomic growth was
strong in 2003-07 and inflation is low and stable.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$20.87 billion
note: Albania has a large gray economy that may be as large as 50%
of official GDP (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$10.62 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$5,800 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 21.2%
industry: 20.5%
services: 58.3% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

1.09 million (not including 352,000 emigrant workers) (September
2006 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 58%
industry: 15%
services: 27% (September 2006 est.)


Unemployment rate:

13.2% official rate, but may exceed 30% due to preponderance of
near-subsistence farming (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

25% (2004 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 3.4%
highest 10%: 24.4% (2004)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

26.7 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

23.3% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $2.782 billion
expenditures: $3.155 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

51.4% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.9% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

6.25% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

14.1% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$2.707 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$6.433 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$7.341 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

wheat, corn, potatoes, vegetables, fruits, sugar beets, grapes;
meat, dairy products


Industries:

food processing, textiles and clothing; lumber, oil, cement,
chemicals, mining, basic metals, hydropower


Industrial production growth rate:

4% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

2.892 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

3.607 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

2.8 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 2.9%
hydro: 97.1%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

6,425 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

30,900 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

748.9 bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - imports:

24,860 bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - proved reserves:

199.1 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

30 million cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

30 million cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

849.5 million cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$1.202 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$1.076 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

textiles and footwear; asphalt, metals and metallic ores, crude oil;
vegetables, fruits, tobacco


Exports - partners:

Italy 72%, Greece 8.8%, China 2.7% (2007)


Imports:

$3.999 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, foodstuffs, textiles, chemicals


Imports - partners:

Italy 27.6%, Greece 14.8%, Turkey 7.4%, China 6.8%, Germany 5.6%,
Switzerland 5%, Russia 4.2% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

ODA: $318.7 million
note: top donors were Italy, EU, Germany (2005 est.)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$2.162 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$1.55 billion (2004)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

lek (ALL)
note: the plural of lek is leke


Currency code:

ALL


Exchange rates:

leke (ALL) per US dollar - 92.668 (2007), 98.384 (2006), 102.649
(2005), 102.78 (2004), 121.863 (2003)


Communications
Albania



Telephones - main lines in use:

353,600 (2005)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

2.3 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: despite new investment in fixed lines, the
density of main lines remains low with roughly 10 lines per 100
people; cellular telephone use is widespread and generally
effective; combined fixed line and mobile telephone density is
approximately 75 telephones per 100 persons
domestic: offsetting the shortage of fixed line capacity, mobile
phone service has been available since 1996; by 2003, two companies
were providing mobile services at a greater density than some of
Albania's neighbors; Internet broadband services initiated in 2005;
Internet cafes are popular in Tirana and have started to spread
outside the capital
international: country code - 355; submarine cable provides
connectivity to Italy, Croatia, and Greece; the Trans-Balkan Line, a
combination submarine cable and land fiber-optic system, provides
additional connectivity to Bulgaria, Macedonia, and Turkey;
international traffic carried by fiber-optic cable and, when
necessary, by microwave radio relay from the Tirana exchange to
Italy and Greece (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 13, FM 46, shortwave 1 (2005)


Radios:

1 million (2001)


Television broadcast stations:

65 (3 national, 62 local); 2 cable networks (2005)


Televisions:

700,000 (2001)


Internet country code:

.al


Internet hosts:

10,162 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

10 (2001)


Internet users:

471,200 (2006)


Transportation
Albania



Airports:

11 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 3
2,438 to 3,047 m: 3 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 8
over 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 4 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 339 km; oil 207 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 447 km
standard gauge: 447 km 1.435-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 18,000 km
paved: 7,020 km
unpaved: 10,980 km (2002)


Waterways:

43 km (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 24
by type: cargo 22, roll on/roll off 2
foreign-owned: 1 (Turkey 1)
registered in other countries: 2 (Panama 2) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Durres, Sarande, Shengjin, Vlore


Military
Albania



Military branches:

Land Forces Command (Army), Naval Forces Command, Air Defense
Command, General Staff Headquarters (includes Logistics Command,
Training and Doctrine Command) (2007)


Military service age and obligation:

19 years of age (2004)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 944,592
females age 16-49: 908,527 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 798,454
females age 16-49: 767,143 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 36,340
female: 33,077 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.49% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Albania



Disputes - international:

the Albanian Government calls for the protection of the rights of
ethnic Albanians in neighboring countries, and the peaceful
resolution of interethnic disputes; some ethnic Albanian groups in
neighboring countries advocate for a "greater Albania," but the idea
has little appeal among Albanian nationals; the mass emigration of
unemployed Albanians remains a problem for developed countries,
chiefly Greece and Italy


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Albania is a source country for women and girls
trafficked for the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation and
forced labor; it is no longer considered a major country of transit;
Albanian victims are trafficked to Greece, Italy, Macedonia, and
Kosovo, with many trafficked onward to Western European countries;
children were also trafficked to Greece for begging and other forms
of child labor; approximately half of all Albanian trafficking
victims are under age 18; internal sex trafficking of women and
children is on the rise
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Albania is on the Tier 2 Watch List
for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to combat
trafficking in persons in 2007, particularly in the area of victim
protection; the government did not appropriately identify
trafficking victims during 2007, and has not demonstrated that it is
vigorously investigating or prosecuting complicit officials (2008)


Illicit drugs:

increasingly active transshipment point for Southwest Asian opiates,
hashish, and cannabis transiting the Balkan route and - to a lesser
extent - cocaine from South America destined for Western Europe;
limited opium and growing cannabis production; ethnic Albanian
narcotrafficking organizations active and expanding in Europe;
vulnerable to money laundering associated with regional trafficking
in narcotics, arms, contraband, and illegal aliens



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Algeria

Introduction
Algeria



Background:

After more than a century of rule by France, Algerians fought
through much of the 1950s to achieve independence in 1962. Algeria's
primary political party, the National Liberation Front (FLN), has
dominated politics ever since. Many Algerians in the subsequent
generation were not satisfied, however, and moved to counter the
FLN's centrality in Algerian politics. The surprising first round
success of the Islamic Salvation Front (FIS) in the December 1991
balloting spurred the Algerian army to intervene and postpone the
second round of elections to prevent what the secular elite feared
would be an extremist-led government from assuming power. The army
began a crackdown on the FIS that spurred FIS supporters to begin
attacking government targets. The government later allowed elections
featuring pro-government and moderate religious-based parties, but
did not appease the activists who progressively widened their
attacks. The fighting escalated into an insurgency, which saw
intense fighting between 1992-98 and which resulted in over 100,000
deaths - many attributed to indiscriminate massacres of villagers by
extremists. The government gained the upper hand by the late-1990s
and FIS's armed wing, the Islamic Salvation Army, disbanded in
January 2000. However, small numbers of armed militants persist in
confronting government forces and conducting ambushes and occasional
attacks on villages. The army placed Abdelaziz BOUTEFLIKA in the
presidency in 1999 in a fraudulent election but claimed neutrality
in his 2004 landslide reelection victory. Longstanding problems
continue to face BOUTEFLIKA in his second term, including the ethnic
minority Berbers' ongoing autonomy campaign, large-scale
unemployment, a shortage of housing, unreliable electrical and water
supplies, government inefficiencies and corruption, and the
continuing activities of extremist militants. The 2006 merger of the
Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat (GSPC) with al-Qaida
(followed by a name change to al-Qaida in the Lands of the Islamic
Maghreb) signaled an increase in bombings, including high-profile,
mass-casualty suicide attacks targeted against the Algerian
government and Western interests. Algeria must also diversify its
petroleum-based economy, which has yielded a large cash reserve but
which has not been used to redress Algeria's many social and
infrastructure problems.


Geography
Algeria



Location:

Northern Africa, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between Morocco
and Tunisia


Geographic coordinates:

28 00 N, 3 00 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 2,381,740 sq km
land: 2,381,740 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly less than 3.5 times the size of Texas


Land boundaries:

total: 6,343 km
border countries: Libya 982 km, Mali 1,376 km, Mauritania 463 km,
Morocco 1,559 km, Niger 956 km, Tunisia 965 km, Western Sahara 42 km


Coastline:

998 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive fishing zone: 32-52 nm


Climate:

arid to semiarid; mild, wet winters with hot, dry summers along
coast; drier with cold winters and hot summers on high plateau;
sirocco is a hot, dust/sand-laden wind especially common in summer


Terrain:

mostly high plateau and desert; some mountains; narrow,
discontinuous coastal plain


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Chott Melrhir -40 m
highest point: Tahat 3,003 m


Natural resources:

petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, phosphates, uranium, lead, zinc


Land use:

arable land: 3.17%
permanent crops: 0.28%
other: 96.55% (2005)


Irrigated land:

5,690 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

14.3 cu km (1997)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 6.07 cu km/yr (22%/13%/65%)
per capita: 185 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

mountainous areas subject to severe earthquakes; mudslides and
floods in rainy season


Environment - current issues:

soil erosion from overgrazing and other poor farming practices;
desertification; dumping of raw sewage, petroleum refining wastes,
and other industrial effluents is leading to the pollution of rivers
and coastal waters; Mediterranean Sea, in particular, becoming
polluted from oil wastes, soil erosion, and fertilizer runoff;
inadequate supplies of potable water


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

second-largest country in Africa (after Sudan)


People
Algeria



Population:

33,769,668 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 26.3% (male 4,528,919/female 4,349,746)
15-64 years: 68.7% (male 11,699,701/female 11,509,619)
65 years and over: 5% (male 779,467/female 902,217) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 26 years
male: 25.8 years
female: 26.2 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.209% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

17.03 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

4.62 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-0.31 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.86 male(s)/female
total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 28.75 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 31.95 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 25.39 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 73.77 years
male: 72.13 years
female: 75.49 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.82 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.1%; note - no country specific models provided (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

9,100 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 500 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Algerian(s)
adjective: Algerian


Ethnic groups:

Arab-Berber 99%, European less than 1%
note: almost all Algerians are Berber in origin, not Arab; the
minority who identify themselves as Berber live mostly in the
mountainous region of Kabylie east of Algiers; the Berbers are also
Muslim but identify with their Berber rather than Arab cultural
heritage; Berbers have long agitated, sometimes violently, for
autonomy; the government is unlikely to grant autonomy but has
offered to begin sponsoring teaching Berber language in schools


Religions:

Sunni Muslim (state religion) 99%, Christian and Jewish 1%


Languages:

Arabic (official), French, Berber dialects


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 69.9%
male: 79.6%
female: 60.1% (2002 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 13 years
male: 13 years
female: 13 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

5.1% of GDP (1999)


Government
Algeria



Country name:

conventional long form: People's Democratic Republic of Algeria
conventional short form: Algeria
local long form: Al Jumhuriyah al Jaza'iriyah ad Dimuqratiyah ash
Sha'biyah
local short form: Al Jaza'ir


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Algiers
geographic coordinates: 36 45 N, 3 03 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

48 provinces (wilayat, singular - wilaya); Adrar, Ain Defla, Ain
Temouchent, Alger, Annaba, Batna, Bechar, Bejaia, Biskra, Blida,
Bordj Bou Arreridj, Bouira, Boumerdes, Chlef, Constantine, Djelfa,
El Bayadh, El Oued, El Tarf, Ghardaia, Guelma, Illizi, Jijel,
Khenchela, Laghouat, Mascara, Medea, Mila, Mostaganem, M'Sila,
Naama, Oran, Ouargla, Oum el Bouaghi, Relizane, Saida, Setif, Sidi
Bel Abbes, Skikda, Souk Ahras, Tamanghasset, Tebessa, Tiaret,
Tindouf, Tipaza, Tissemsilt, Tizi Ouzou, Tlemcen


Independence:

5 July 1962 (from France)


National holiday:

Revolution Day, 1 November (1954)


Constitution:

8 September 1963; revised 19 November 1976, effective 22 November
1976; revised 3 November 1988, 23 February 1989, 28 November 1996,
and 12 November 2008


Legal system:

socialist, based on French and Islamic law; judicial review of
legislative acts in ad hoc Constitutional Council composed of
various public officials, including several Supreme Court justices;
has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Abdelaziz BOUTEFLIKA (since 28 April 1999)
head of government: Prime Minister Ahmed OUYAHIA (since 23 June 2008)
cabinet: Cabinet of Ministers appointed by the president
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a third term under 2008 amendment to constitution);
election last held 8 April 2004 (next to be held in April 2009);
prime minister appointed by the president
election results: Abdelaziz BOUTEFLIKA reelected president for
second term; percent of vote - Abdelaziz BOUTEFLIKA 85%, Ali BENFLIS
6.4%, Abdellah DJABALLAH 5%


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament consists of the National People's Assembly or
Al-Majlis Al-Shabi Al-Watani (389 seats; members elected by popular
vote to serve five-year terms) and the Council of Nations (Senate)
(144 seats; one-third of the members appointed by the president,
two-thirds elected by indirect vote; to serve six-year terms; the
constitution requires half the council to be renewed every three
years)
elections: National People's Assembly - last held 17 May 2007 (next
to be held in 2012); Council of Nations (Senate) - last held 28
December 2006 (next to be held in 2009)
election results: National People's Assembly - percent of vote by
party - NA; seats by party - FLN 136, RND 61, MSP 52, PT 26, RCD 19,
FNA 13, other 49, independents 33; Council of Nations - percent of
vote by party - NA; seats by party - FLN 29, RND 12, MSP 3, RCD 1,
independents 3, presidential appointees (unknown affiliation) 24;
note - Council seating reflects the number of replaced council
members rather than the whole Council


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court


Political parties and leaders:

Ahd 54 [Ali Fauzi REBAINE]; Algerian National Front or FNA [Moussa
TOUATI]; Islamic Salvation Front or FIS (outlawed April 1992) [Ali
BELHADJ, Dr. Abassi MADANI, Rabeh KEBIR]; National Democratic Rally
(Rassemblement National Democratique) or RND [Ahmed OUYAHIA];
National Entente Movement or MEN [Ali BOUKHAZNA]; National
Liberation Front or FLN [Abdelaziz BELKHADEM, secretary general];
National Reform Movement or Islah (formerly MRN) [Mohamed BOULAHIA];
National Renewal Party or PRA [Mohamed BENSMAIL]; Rally for Culture
and Democracy or RCD [Said SADI]; Renaissance Movement or EnNahda
Movement [Fatah RABEI]; Socialist Forces Front or FFS [Hocine Ait
AHMED]; Social Liberal Party or PSL [Ahmed KHELIL]; Society of Peace
Movement or MSP [Boudjerra SOLTANI]; Workers Party or PT [Louisa
HANOUNE]
note: a law banning political parties based on religion was enacted
in March 1997


Political pressure groups and leaders:

The Algerian Human Rights League or LADDH [Hocine ZEHOUANE]; SOS
Disparus [Nacera DUTOUR]; Somoud [Ali MERABET]


International organization participation:

ABEDA, AfDB, AFESD, AMF, AMU, AU, BIS, FAO, G-15, G-24, G-77, IAEA,
IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU,
ITUC, LAS, MIGA, MONUC, NAM, OAPEC, OAS (observer), OIC, OPCW, OPEC,
OSCE (partner), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNITAR, UNWTO,
UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Abdallah BAALI
chancery: 2118 Kalorama Road NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 265-2800
FAX: [1] (202) 667-2174


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador David D. PEARCE
embassy: 05 Chemin Cheikh Bachir, El-Ibrahimi, El-Biar 16000 Algiers
mailing address: B. P. 408, Alger-Gare, 16030 Algiers
telephone: [213] 770-08-2000
FAX: [213] 21-60-7355


Flag description:

two equal vertical bands of green (hoist side) and white; a red,
five-pointed star within a red crescent centered over the two-color
boundary
note: the crescent, star, and color green are traditional symbols of
Islam (the state religion)


Economy
Algeria



Economy - overview:

The hydrocarbons sector is the backbone of the economy, accounting
for roughly 60% of budget revenues, 30% of GDP, and over 95% of
export earnings. Algeria has the eighth-largest reserves of natural
gas in the world and is the fourth-largest gas exporter; it ranks
14th in oil reserves. Sustained high oil prices in recent years have
helped improve Algeria's financial and macroeconomic indicators.
Algeria is running substantial trade surpluses and building up
record foreign exchange reserves. Algeria has decreased its external
debt to less than 10% of GDP after repaying its Paris Club and
London Club debt in 2006. Real GDP has risen due to higher oil
output and increased government spending. The government's continued
efforts to diversify the economy by attracting foreign and domestic
investment outside the energy sector, however, has had little
success in reducing high unemployment and improving living
standards. Structural reform within the economy, such as development
of the banking sector and the construction of infrastructure, moves
ahead slowly hampered by corruption and bureaucratic resistance.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$222.3 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$131.6 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

4.5% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$6,700 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 8.2%
industry: 61.5%
services: 30.3% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

9.38 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture 14%, industry 13.4%, construction and public works 10%,
trade 14.6%, government 32%, other 16% (2003 est.)


Unemployment rate:

11.8% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

25% (2005 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.8%
highest 10%: 26.8% (1995)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

35.3 (1995)


Investment (gross fixed):

24.5% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $57.03 billion
expenditures: $40.53 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

18% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

3.5% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

4% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

8% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$55.43 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$28.59 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

NA


Agriculture - products:

wheat, barley, oats, grapes, olives, citrus, fruits; sheep, cattle


Industries:

petroleum, natural gas, light industries, mining, electrical,
petrochemical, food processing


Industrial production growth rate:

5% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

33.12 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

26.91 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

300 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - imports:

382 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 99.7%
hydro: 0.3%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

2.173 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

279,800 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

1.844 million bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - imports:

13,110 bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - proved reserves:

12.2 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

85.7 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

26.3 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

59.4 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

4.502 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$32.05 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$60.51 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

petroleum, natural gas, and petroleum products 97%


Exports - partners:

US 29.4%, Italy 13.8%, Spain 9.6%, Canada 8.4%, France 7.4%,
Netherlands 5% (2007)


Imports:

$26.25 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

capital goods, foodstuffs, consumer goods


Imports - partners:

France 18.7%, China 9%, Italy 8.5%, Spain 6%, US 5.5%, Germany 5.3%,
Russia 4.6%, Turkey 4.1% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$370.6 million (2005 est.)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$110.6 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$3.957 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$12.04 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$851 million (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Algerian dinar (DZD)


Currency code:

DZD


Exchange rates:

Algerian dinars (DZD) per US dollar - 69.9 (2007), 72.647 (2006),
73.276 (2005), 72.061 (2004), 77.395 (2003)


Communications
Algeria



Telephones - main lines in use:

3.068 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

27.563 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: a weak network of fixed-main lines, which
remains low at less than 10 telephones per 100 persons, is partially
offset by the rapid increase in mobile cellular subscribership; in
2007, combined fixed-line and mobile telephone density surpassed 90
telephones per 100 persons
domestic: privatization of Algeria's telecommunications sector began
in 2000; three mobile cellular licenses have been issued and, in
2005, a consortium led by Egypt's Orascom Telecom won a 15-year
license to build and operate a fixed-line network in Algeria; the
license will allow Orascom to develop high-speed data and other
specialized services and contribute to meeting the large unfulfilled
demand for basic residential telephony; Internet broadband services
began in 2003 with approximately 200,000 subscribers in 2006
international: country code - 213; landing point for the SEA-ME-WE-4
fiber-optic submarine cable system that provides links to Europe,
the Middle East, and Asia; microwave radio relay to Italy, France,
Spain, Morocco, and Tunisia; coaxial cable to Morocco and Tunisia;
participant in Medarabtel; satellite earth stations - 51 (Intelsat,
Intersputnik, and Arabsat) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 25, FM 1, shortwave 8 (1999)


Radios:

7.1 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

46 (plus 216 repeaters) (1995)


Televisions:

3.1 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.dz


Internet hosts:

477 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

2 (2000)


Internet users:

3.5 million (2007)


Transportation
Algeria



Airports:

150 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 52
over 3,047 m: 10
2,438 to 3,047 m: 27
1,524 to 2,437 m: 10
914 to 1,523 m: 4
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 98
2,438 to 3,047 m: 3
1,524 to 2,437 m: 26
914 to 1,523 m: 44
under 914 m: 25 (2007)


Heliports:

2 (2007)


Pipelines:

condensate 1,532 km; gas 13,861 km; liquid petroleum gas 2,408 km;
oil 6,878 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 3,973 km
standard gauge: 2,888 km 1.435-m gauge (283 km electrified)
narrow gauge: 1,085 km 1.055-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 108,302 km
paved: 76,028 km (includes 645 km of expressways)
unpaved: 32,274 km (2004)


Merchant marine:

total: 33
by type: bulk carrier 6, cargo 8, chemical tanker 1, liquefied gas
9, passenger/cargo 3, petroleum tanker 4, roll on/roll off 2
foreign-owned: 18 (Jordan 7, UK 11) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Algiers, Annaba, Arzew, Bejaia, Djendjene, Jijel, Mostaganem, Oran,
Skikda


Military
Algeria



Military branches:

National Popular Army (ANP; includes Land Forces), Algerian National
Navy (MRA), Air Force (QJJ), Territorial Air Defense Force (2005)


Military service age and obligation:

19-30 years of age for compulsory military service; conscript
service obligation - 18 months (6 months basic training, 12 months
civil projects) (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 9,736,757
females age 16-49: 9,590,978 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 8,141,864
females age 16-49: 8,215,895 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 374,365
female: 360,942 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

3.3% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Algeria



Disputes - international:

Algeria, and many other states, rejects Moroccan administration of
Western Sahara; the Polisario Front, exiled in Algeria, represents
the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic; Algeria's border with Morocco
remains an irritant to bilateral relations, each nation accusing the
other of harboring militants and arms smuggling; Algeria remains
concerned about armed bandits operating throughout the Sahel who
sometimes destabilize southern Algerian towns; dormant disputes
include Libyan claims of about 32,000 sq km still reflected on its
maps of southeastern Algeria and the FLN's assertions of a claim to
Chirac Pastures in southeastern Morocco


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 90,000 (Western Saharan Sahrawi,
mostly living in Algerian-sponsored camps in the southwestern
Algerian town of Tindouf)
IDPs: undetermined (civil war during 1990s) (2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Algeria is a transit country for men and women
trafficked from sub-Saharan Africa to Europe for the purposes of
commercial sexual exploitation and involuntary servitude; Algerian
children are trafficked internally for the purpose of domestic
servitude or street vending
tier rating: Tier 3 - Algeria did not report any serious law
enforcement actions to punish traffickers who force women into
commercial sexual exploitation or men into involuntary servitude in
2007; the government again reported no investigations of trafficking
of children for domestic servitude or improvements in protection
services available to victims of trafficking; Algeria still lacks
victim protection services, and its failure to distinguish between
trafficking and illegal migration may result in the punishment of
victims of trafficking (2008)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@American Samoa

Introduction
American Samoa



Background:

Settled as early as 1000 B.C., Samoa was "discovered" by European
explorers in the 18th century. International rivalries in the latter
half of the 19th century were settled by an 1899 treaty in which
Germany and the US divided the Samoan archipelago. The US formally
occupied its portion - a smaller group of eastern islands with the
excellent harbor of Pago Pago - the following year.


Geography
American Samoa



Location:

Oceania, group of islands in the South Pacific Ocean, about half way
between Hawaii and New Zealand


Geographic coordinates:

14 20 S, 170 00 W


Map references:

Oceania


Area:

total: 199 sq km
land: 199 sq km
water: 0 sq km
note: includes Rose Island and Swains Island


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

116 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical marine, moderated by southeast trade winds; annual rainfall
averages about 3 m; rainy season (November to April), dry season
(May to October); little seasonal temperature variation


Terrain:

five volcanic islands with rugged peaks and limited coastal plains,
two coral atolls (Rose Island, Swains Island)


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: Lata Mountain 964 m


Natural resources:

pumice, pumicite


Land use:

arable land: 10%
permanent crops: 15%
other: 75% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

typhoons common from December to March


Environment - current issues:

limited natural fresh water resources; the water division of the
government has spent substantial funds in the past few years to
improve water catchments and pipelines


Geography - note:

Pago Pago has one of the best natural deepwater harbors in the South
Pacific Ocean, sheltered by shape from rough seas and protected by
peripheral mountains from high winds; strategic location in the
South Pacific Ocean


People
American Samoa



Population:

64,827 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 34.4% (male 11,337/female 10,946)
15-64 years: 61.8% (male 20,335/female 19,728)
65 years and over: 3.8% (male 1,161/female 1,320) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 22.8 years
male: 22.7 years
female: 23 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.236% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

23.66 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

4.13 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-7.17 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.88 male(s)/female
total population: 1.03 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 10.46 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 13.69 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 7.03 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 73.47 years
male: 70.55 years
female: 76.56 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

3.35 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: American Samoan(s) (US nationals)
adjective: American Samoan


Ethnic groups:

native Pacific islander 91.6%, Asian 2.8%, white 1.1%, mixed 4.2%,
other 0.3% (2000 census)


Religions:

Christian Congregationalist 50%, Roman Catholic 20%, Protestant and
other 30%


Languages:

Samoan 90.6% (closely related to Hawaiian and other Polynesian
languages), English 2.9%, Tongan 2.4%, other Pacific islander 2.1%,
other 2%
note: most people are bilingual (2000 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 97%
male: 98%
female: 97% (1980 est.)


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
American Samoa



Country name:

conventional long form: Territory of American Samoa
conventional short form: American Samoa
abbreviation: AS


Dependency status:

unincorporated and unorganized territory of the US; administered by
the Office of Insular Affairs, US Department of the Interior


Government type:

NA


Capital:

name: Pago Pago
geographic coordinates: 14 16 S, 170 42 W
time difference: UTC-11 (6 hours behind Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

none (territory of the US); there are no first-order administrative
divisions as defined by the US Government, but there are three
districts and two islands* at the second order; Eastern, Manu'a,
Rose Island*, Swains Island*, Western


Independence:

none (territory of the US)


National holiday:

Flag Day, 17 April (1900)


Constitution:

ratified 2 June 1966, effective 1 July 1967


Legal system:

NA


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President George W. BUSH of the US (since 20 January
2001); Vice President Richard B. CHENEY (since 20 January 2001)
head of government: Governor Togiola TULAFONO (since 7 April 2003)
cabinet: Cabinet made up of 12 department directors
elections: under the US Constitution, residents of unincorporated
territories, such as American Samoa, do not vote in elections for US
president and vice president; however, they may vote in Democratic
and Republican presidential primary elections; governor and
lieutenant governor elected on the same ticket by popular vote for
four-year terms (eligible for a second term); election last held 4
and 18 November 2008 (next to be held in November 2012)
election results: Togiola TULAFONO reelected governor; percent of
vote - Togiola TULAFONO 56.5%, Afoa Moega LUTU 43.5%


Legislative branch:

bicameral Fono or Legislative Assembly consists of the House of
Representatives (21 seats; 20 members are elected by popular vote
and 1 is an appointed, nonvoting delegate from Swains Island;
members serve two-year terms) and the Senate (18 seats; members are
elected from local chiefs to serve four-year terms)
elections: House of Representatives - last held 4 November 2008
(next to be held in November 2010); Senate - last held 4 November
2008 (next to be held in November 2012)
election results: House of Representatives - percent of vote by
party - NA; seats by party - NA; Senate - percent of vote by party -
NA; seats by party - independents 18
note: American Samoa elects one nonvoting representative to the US
House of Representatives; election last held on 4 November 2008
(next to be held in November 2010); results - Eni F. H. FALEOMAVAEGA
reelected as delegate


Judicial branch:

High Court (chief justice and associate justices are appointed by
the US Secretary of the Interior)


Political parties and leaders:

Democratic Party [Oreta M. TOGAFAU]; Republican Party [Tautai A. F.
FAALEVAO]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Population Pressure LAS (addresses the growing population pressures)


International organization participation:

Interpol (subbureau), IOC, SPC, UPU


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (territory of the US)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (territory of the US)


Flag description:

blue, with a white triangle edged in red that is based on the fly
side and extends to the hoist side; a brown and white American bald
eagle flying toward the hoist side is carrying two traditional
Samoan symbols of authority, a war club known as a "Fa'alaufa'i"
(upper; left talon), and a coconut fiber fly whisk known as a "Fue"
(lower; right talon); the combination of symbols broadly mimics that
seen on the US Great Seal and reflects the relationship between the
United States and American Samoa


Economy
American Samoa



Economy - overview:

American Samoa has a traditional Polynesian economy in which more
than 90% of the land is communally owned. Economic activity is
strongly linked to the US with which American Samoa conducts most of
its commerce. Tuna fishing and tuna processing plants are the
backbone of the private sector, with canned tuna the primary export.
Transfers from the US Government add substantially to American
Samoa's economic well being. Attempts by the government to develop a
larger and broader economy are restrained by Samoa's remote
location, its limited transportation, and its devastating
hurricanes. Tourism is a promising developing sector.
note: as a territory of the US, American Samoa does not treat the US
as an external trade partner


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$510.1 million (2003 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$333.8 million (2005)


GDP - real growth rate:

3% (2003 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$5,800 (2005 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: NA%
industry: NA%
services: NA%


Labor force:

17,630 (2005)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 34%
industry: 33%
services: 33% (1990)


Unemployment rate:

29.8% (2005)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $121 million (37% in local revenue and 63% in US grants)
expenditures: $127 million (FY96/97)


Fiscal year:

1 October - 30 September


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

NA%


Agriculture - products:

bananas, coconuts, vegetables, taro, breadfruit, yams, copra,
pineapples, papayas; dairy products, livestock


Industries:

tuna canneries (largely supplied by foreign fishing vessels),
handicrafts


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

180 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

167.4 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

4,053 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

4,066 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Exports:

$445.6 million (FY04 est.)


Exports - commodities:

canned tuna 93% (2004 est.)


Exports - partners:

Indonesia 28.2%, India 22.3%, Australia 15.3%, Japan 11.2%, NZ 7.1%
(2006)


Imports:

$308.8 million (FY04 est.)


Imports - commodities:

materials for canneries 56%, food 8%, petroleum products 7%,
machinery and parts 6% (2004 est.)


Imports - partners:

Australia 66%, Samoa 13.8%, NZ 10.8% (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

important financial support from the US, more than $40 million in
1994


Debt - external:

$NA


Currency (code):

US dollar (USD)


Currency code:

USD


Exchange rates:

the US dollar is used


Communications
American Samoa



Telephones - main lines in use:

10,400 (2004)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

2,200 (2004)


Telephone system:

general assessment: NA
domestic: good telex, telegraph, facsimile, and cellular telephone
services; domestic satellite system with 1 Comsat earth station
international: country code - 1-684; satellite earth station - 1
(Intelsat-Pacific Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 2, FM 3, shortwave 0 (2005)


Radios:

57,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (2006)


Televisions:

14,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.as


Internet hosts:

1,923 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

NA


Transportation
American Samoa



Airports:

3 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 3
over 3,047 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 221 km (2007)


Ports and terminals:

Pago Pago


Military
American Samoa



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 806
female: 781 (2008 est.)


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of the US


Transnational Issues
American Samoa



Disputes - international:

Tokelau periodically asserts claims to American Samoa's Swains
Island (Olohega), such as in its 2006 draft independence constitution



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Andorra

Introduction
Andorra



Background:

For 715 years, from 1278 to 1993, Andorrans lived under a unique
co-principality, ruled by French and Spanish leaders (from 1607
onward, the French chief of state and the Spanish bishop of Urgel).
In 1993, this feudal system was modified with the titular heads of
state retained, but the government transformed into a parliamentary
democracy. Long isolated and impoverished, mountainous Andorra
achieved considerable prosperity since World War II through its
tourist industry. Many immigrants (legal and illegal) are attracted
to the thriving economy with its lack of income taxes.


Geography
Andorra



Location:

Southwestern Europe, between France and Spain


Geographic coordinates:

42 30 N, 1 30 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 468 sq km
land: 468 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

2.5 times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

total: 120.3 km
border countries: France 56.6 km, Spain 63.7 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

temperate; snowy, cold winters and warm, dry summers


Terrain:

rugged mountains dissected by narrow valleys


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Riu Runer 840 m
highest point: Coma Pedrosa 2,946 m


Natural resources:

hydropower, mineral water, timber, iron ore, lead


Land use:

arable land: 2.13%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 97.87% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

avalanches


Environment - current issues:

deforestation; overgrazing of mountain meadows contributes to soil
erosion; air pollution; wastewater treatment and solid waste disposal


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

landlocked; straddles a number of important crossroads in the
Pyrenees


People
Andorra



Population:

82,627 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 15.5% (male 6,606/female 6,192)
15-64 years: 72.5% (male 31,313/female 28,563)
65 years and over: 12% (male 4,906/female 5,047) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 38.9 years
male: 39.2 years
female: 38.6 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.899% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

10.59 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

5.59 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

13.99 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.07 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.07 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.1 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.97 male(s)/female
total population: 1.08 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 3.68 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 3.76 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 3.6 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 82.67 years
male: 80.35 years
female: 85.14 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.32 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Andorran(s)
adjective: Andorran


Ethnic groups:

Spanish 43%, Andorran 33%, Portuguese 11%, French 7%, other 6% (1998)


Religions:

Roman Catholic (predominant)


Languages:

Catalan (official), French, Castilian, Portuguese


Literacy:

definition: NA
total population: 100%
male: 100%
female: 100%


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 11 years
male: 11 years
female: 11 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

2.3% of GDP (2006)


Government
Andorra



Country name:

conventional long form: Principality of Andorra
conventional short form: Andorra
local long form: Principat d'Andorra
local short form: Andorra


Government type:

parliamentary democracy (since March 1993) that retains as its
chiefs of state a coprincipality; the two princes are the president
of France and bishop of Seo de Urgel, Spain, who are represented
locally by coprinces' representatives


Capital:

name: Andorra la Vella
geographic coordinates: 42 30 N, 1 31 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

7 parishes (parroquies, singular - parroquia); Andorra la Vella,
Canillo, Encamp, Escaldes-Engordany, La Massana, Ordino, Sant Julia
de Loria


Independence:

1278 (formed under the joint suzerainty of the French Count of Foix
and the Spanish Bishop of Urgel)


National holiday:

Our Lady of Meritxell Day, 8 September (1278)


Constitution:

Andorra's first written constitution was drafted in 1991, approved
by referendum 14 March 1993, effective 28 April 1993


Legal system:

based on French and Spanish civil codes; no judicial review of
legislative acts; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: French Coprince Nicolas SARKOZY (since 16 May 2007);
represented by Philippe MASSONI (since 26 July 2002) and Spanish
Coprince Bishop Joan Enric VIVES i SICILIA (since 12 May 2003);
represented by Nemesi MARQUES i OSTE (since 30 July 2003)
head of government: Executive Council President Albert PINTAT
SANTOLARIA (since 27 May 2005)
cabinet: Executive Council or Govern designated by the Executive
Council president
elections: Executive Council president elected by the General
Council and formally appointed by the coprinces for a four-year
term; election last held 24 April 2005 (next to be held in April-May
2009)
election results: Albert PINTAT SANTOLARIA elected executive council
president; percent of General Council vote - NA


Legislative branch:

unicameral General Council of the Valleys or Consell General de las
Valls (28 seats; members are elected by direct popular vote, 14 from
a single national constituency and 14 to represent each of the seven
parishes; to serve four-year terms)
elections: last held on 24 April 2005 (next to be held in
March-April 2009)
election results: percent of vote by party - PLA 41.2%, PS 38.1%,
CDA-S21 11%, other 9.7%; seats by party - PLA 14, PS 12, CDA-S21 2


Judicial branch:

Tribunal of Judges or Tribunal de Batlles; Tribunal of the Courts or
Tribunal de Corts; Supreme Court of Justice of Andorra or Tribunal
Superior de Justicia d'Andorra; Supreme Council of Justice or
Consell Superior de la Justicia; Fiscal Ministry or Ministeri
Fiscal; Constitutional Tribunal or Tribunal Constitucional


Political parties and leaders:

Andorran Democratic Center Party (formerly Democratic Party or PD)
and Century 21 or CDA and S21 [Enric TARRADO]; Liberal Party of
Andorra or PLA [Albert PINTAT SANTOLARIA] (formerly Liberal Union or
UL); Social Democratic Party or PS [Jaume BARTUMEU CASSANY]
(formerly part of National Democratic Group or AND)


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

CE, FAO, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IFRCS, Interpol, IOC, IPU, ITU, OIF,
OPCW, OSCE, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, Union Latina, UNWTO, WCO, WHO, WIPO,
WTO (observer)


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Carles FONT-ROSSELL
chancery: 2 United Nations Plaza, 25th Floor, New York, NY 10017
telephone: [1] (212) 750-8064
FAX: [1] (212) 750-6630


Diplomatic representation from the US:

the US does not have an embassy in Andorra; the US Ambassador to
Spain is accredited to Andorra; US interests in Andorra are
represented by the Consulate General's office in Barcelona (Spain);
mailing address: Paseo Reina Elisenda de Montcada, 23, 08034
Barcelona, Spain; telephone: [34] (93) 280-2227; FAX: [34] (93)
280-6175


Flag description:

three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side), yellow, and red
with the national coat of arms centered in the yellow band; the coat
of arms features a quartered shield
note: similar to the flags of Chad and Romania, which do not have a
national coat of arms in the center, and the flag of Moldova, which
does bear a national emblem


Economy
Andorra



Economy - overview:

Tourism, the mainstay of Andorra's tiny, well-to-do economy,
accounts for more than 80% of GDP. An estimated 11.6 million
tourists visit annually, attracted by Andorra's duty-free status and
by its summer and winter resorts. Andorra's comparative advantage
has recently eroded as the economies of neighboring France and Spain
have been opened up, providing broader availability of goods and
lower tariffs. The banking sector, with its partial "tax haven"
status, also contributes substantially to the economy. Agricultural
production is limited - only 2% of the land is arable - and most
food has to be imported. The principal livestock activity is sheep
raising. Manufacturing output consists mainly of cigarettes, cigars,
and furniture. Andorra is a member of the EU Customs Union and is
treated as an EU member for trade in manufactured goods (no tariffs)
and as a non-EU member for agricultural products.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$2.77 billion (2005)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$NA


GDP - real growth rate:

3.5% (2005 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$38,800 (2005)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: NA%
industry: NA%
services: NA%


Labor force:

42,420 (2005)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 0.3%
industry: 20.3%
services: 79.4% (2005)


Unemployment rate:

0% (1996 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $333.5 million
expenditures: $386.6 million (2005)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

3.2% (2005)


Agriculture - products:

small quantities of rye, wheat, barley, oats, vegetables; sheep


Industries:

tourism (particularly skiing), cattle raising, timber, banking,
tobacco, furniture


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

NA kWh


Electricity - consumption:

NA kWh


Electricity - exports:

NA kWh


Electricity - imports:

NA kWh; note - most electricity supplied by Spain and France;
Andorra generates a small amount of hydropower


Electricity - production by source:

NA


Exports:

$148.7 million f.o.b. (2005)


Exports - commodities:

tobacco products, furniture


Imports:

$1.879 billion (2005)


Imports - commodities:

consumer goods, food, electricity


Economic aid - recipient:

$0


Debt - external:

$NA


Currency (code):

euro (EUR)


Currency code:

EUR


Exchange rates:

euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006), 0.8041
(2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)


Communications
Andorra



Telephones - main lines in use:

37,200 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

68,500 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: NA
domestic: modern system with microwave radio relay connections
between exchanges
international: country code - 376; landline circuits to France and
Spain


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 0, FM 15, shortwave 0 (1998)


Radios:

16,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

0 (1997)


Televisions:

27,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.ad


Internet hosts:

23,368 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

58,900 (2007)


Transportation
Andorra



Roadways:

total: 270 km


Military
Andorra



Military branches:

no regular military forces, Police Service of Andorra


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 18,685 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 14,976 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 412
female: 395 (2008 est.)


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of France and Spain


Transnational Issues
Andorra



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Angola

Introduction
Angola



Background:

Angola is rebuilding its country after the end of a 27-year civil
war in 2002. Fighting between the Popular Movement for the
Liberation of Angola (MPLA), led by Jose Eduardo DOS SANTOS, and the
National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA), led by
Jonas SAVIMBI, followed independence from Portugal in 1975. Peace
seemed imminent in 1992 when Angola held national elections, but
UNITA renewed fighting after being beaten by the MPLA at the polls.
Up to 1.5 million lives may have been lost - and 4 million people
displaced - in the quarter century of fighting. SAVIMBI's death in
2002 ended UNITA's insurgency and strengthened the MPLA's hold on
power. President DOS SANTOS has announced legislative elections will
be held in September 2008, with presidential elections planned for
sometime in 2009.


Geography
Angola



Location:

Southern Africa, bordering the South Atlantic Ocean, between Namibia
and Democratic Republic of the Congo


Geographic coordinates:

12 30 S, 18 30 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 1,246,700 sq km
land: 1,246,700 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly less than twice the size of Texas


Land boundaries:

total: 5,198 km
border countries: Democratic Republic of the Congo 2,511 km (of
which 225 km is the boundary of discontiguous Cabinda Province),
Republic of the Congo 201 km, Namibia 1,376 km, Zambia 1,110 km


Coastline:

1,600 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

semiarid in south and along coast to Luanda; north has cool, dry
season (May to October) and hot, rainy season (November to April)


Terrain:

narrow coastal plain rises abruptly to vast interior plateau


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Morro de Moco 2,620 m


Natural resources:

petroleum, diamonds, iron ore, phosphates, copper, feldspar, gold,
bauxite, uranium


Land use:

arable land: 2.65%
permanent crops: 0.23%
other: 97.12% (2005)


Irrigated land:

800 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

184 cu km (1987)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.35 cu km/yr (23%/17%/60%)
per capita: 22 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

locally heavy rainfall causes periodic flooding on the plateau


Environment - current issues:

overuse of pastures and subsequent soil erosion attributable to
population pressures; desertification; deforestation of tropical
rain forest, in response to both international demand for tropical
timber and to domestic use as fuel, resulting in loss of
biodiversity; soil erosion contributing to water pollution and
siltation of rivers and dams; inadequate supplies of potable water


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone
Layer Protection, Ship Pollution
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

the province of Cabinda is an exclave, separated from the rest of
the country by the Democratic Republic of the Congo


People
Angola



Population:

12,531,357 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 43.6% (male 2,760,264/female 2,707,665)
15-64 years: 53.6% (male 3,416,914/female 3,302,552)
65 years and over: 2.7% (male 151,609/female 192,353) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 18 years
male: 18 years
female: 18 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.136% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

44.09 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

24.44 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

1.72 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.79 male(s)/female
total population: 1.02 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 182.31 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 194.38 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 169.64 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 37.92 years
male: 36.99 years
female: 38.9 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

6.2 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

3.9% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

240,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

21,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: malaria, African trypanosomiasis (sleeping
sickness)
water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Angolan(s)
adjective: Angolan


Ethnic groups:

Ovimbundu 37%, Kimbundu 25%, Bakongo 13%, mestico (mixed European
and native African) 2%, European 1%, other 22%


Religions:

indigenous beliefs 47%, Roman Catholic 38%, Protestant 15% (1998
est.)


Languages:

Portuguese (official), Bantu and other African languages


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 67.4%
male: 82.9%
female: 54.2% (2001 est.)


Education expenditures:

2.4% of GDP (2005)


Government
Angola



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Angola
conventional short form: Angola
local long form: Republica de Angola
local short form: Angola
former: People's Republic of Angola


Government type:

republic; multiparty presidential regime


Capital:

name: Luanda
geographic coordinates: 8 50 S, 13 14 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

18 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia); Bengo, Benguela,
Bie, Cabinda, Cuando Cubango, Cuanza Norte, Cuanza Sul, Cunene,
Huambo, Huila, Luanda, Lunda Norte, Lunda Sul, Malanje, Moxico,
Namibe, Uige, Zaire


Independence:

11 November 1975 (from Portugal)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 11 November (1975)


Constitution:

adopted by People's Assembly 25 August 1992


Legal system:

based on Portuguese civil law system and customary law; modified to
accommodate political pluralism and increased use of free markets;
has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Jose Eduardo DOS SANTOS (since 21
September 1979); note - the president is both chief of state and
head of government
head of government: President Jose Eduardo DOS SANTOS (since 21
September 1979); Antonio Paulo KASSOMA was named prime minister by
MPLA on 26 September 2008
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
elections: president elected by universal ballot for a five-year
term (eligible for a second consecutive or discontinuous term) under
the 1992 constitution; President DOS SANTOS originally elected (in
1979) without opposition under a one-party system and stood for
reelection in Angola's first multiparty elections 29-30 September
1992 (next to be held in 2009)
election results: Jose Eduardo DOS SANTOS 49.6%, Jonas SAVIMBI
40.1%, making a run-off election necessary; the run-off was not held
because SAVIMBI's National Union for the Total Independence of
Angola (UNITA) repudiated the results of the first election; the
civil war resumed leaving DOS SANTOS in his current position as the
president


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly or Assembleia Nacional (220 seats;
members elected by proportional vote to serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 5-6 September 2008 (next to be held in
September 2012)
election results: percent of vote by party - MPLA 81.6%, UNITA
10.4%, PRS 3.2%, ND 1.2%, FNLA 1.1%, other 2.5%; seats by party -
MPLA 191, UNITA 16, PRS 8, ND 2, FNLA 3


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court and separate provincial courts (judges are appointed
by the president)


Political parties and leaders:

Liberal Democratic Party or PLD [Analia de Victoria PEREIRA];
National Front for the Liberation of Angola or FNLA [disputed
between Ngola KABANGU and Lucas NGONDA]; National Union for the
Total Independence of Angola or UNITA (largest opposition party)
[Isaias SAMAKUVA]; Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola or
MPLA (ruling party in power since 1975) [Jose Eduardo DOS SANTOS];
Social Renewal Party or PRS [Eduardo KUANGANA]
note: about a dozen minor parties participated in the 1992 elections
but only won a few seats; they and more than 100 other smaller
parties have little influence in the National Assembly


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Front for the Liberation of the Enclave of Cabinda or FLEC [N'zita
Henriques TIAGO, Antonio Bento BEMBE]


International organization participation:

ACP, AfDB, AU, CPLP, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt (signatory),
ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU,
ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OAS (observer),
OPEC, SADC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNWTO, UPU,
WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Josefina Perpetua Pitra DIAKITE
chancery: 2108 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20009
telephone: [1] (202) 785-1156
FAX: [1] (202) 785-1258
consulate(s) general: Houston, New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Dan MOZENA
embassy: number 32 Rua Houari Boumedienne (in the Miramar area of
Luanda), Luanda
mailing address: international mail: Caixa Postal 6468, Luanda;
pouch: US Embassy Luanda, US Department of State, 2550 Luanda Place,
Washington, DC 20521-2550
telephone: [244] (222) 64-1000
FAX: [244] (222) 64-1232


Flag description:

two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and black with a centered
yellow emblem consisting of a five-pointed star within half a
cogwheel crossed by a machete (in the style of a hammer and sickle)


Economy
Angola



Economy - overview:

Angola's high growth rate is driven by its oil sector, with record
oil prices and rising petroleum production. Oil production and its
supporting activities contribute about 85% of GDP. Increased oil
production supported growth averaging more than 15% per year from
2004 to 2007. A postwar reconstruction boom and resettlement of
displaced persons has led to high rates of growth in construction
and agriculture as well. Much of the country's infrastructure is
still damaged or undeveloped from the 27-year-long civil war.
Remnants of the conflict such as widespread land mines still mar the
countryside even though an apparently durable peace was established
after the death of rebel leader Jonas SAVIMBI in February 2002.
Subsistence agriculture provides the main livelihood for most of the
people, but half of the country's food must still be imported. In
2005, the government started using a $2 billion line of credit,
since increased to $7 billion, from China to rebuild Angola's public
infrastructure, and several large-scale projects were completed in
2006. Angola also has large credit lines from Brazil, Portugal,
Germany, Spain, and the EU. The central bank in 2003 implemented an
exchange rate stabilization program using foreign exchange reserves
to buy kwanzas out of circulation. This policy became more
sustainable in 2005 because of strong oil export earnings; it has
significantly reduced inflation. Although consumer inflation
declined from 325% in 2000 to under 13% in 2007, the stabilization
policy has put pressure on international net liquidity. Angola
became a member of OPEC in late 2006 and in late 2007 was assigned a
production quota of 1.9 million barrels a day, somewhat less than
the 2-2.5 million bbl Angola's government had wanted. To fully take
advantage of its rich national resources - gold, diamonds, extensive
forests, Atlantic fisheries, and large oil deposits - Angola will
need to implement government reforms, increase transparency, and
reduce corruption. The government has rejected a formal IMF
monitored program, although it continues Article IV consultations
and ad hoc cooperation. Corruption, especially in the extractive
sectors, and the negative effects of large inflows of foreign
exchange, are major challenges facing Angola.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$95.46 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$61.36 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

16.7% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$7,800 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 9.5%
industry: 65.8%
services: 24.6% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

7.148 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 85%
industry and services: 15% (2003 est.)


Unemployment rate:

extensive unemployment and underemployment affecting more than half
the population (2001 est.)


Population below poverty line:

70% (2003 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Investment (gross fixed):

9.1% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $20.18 billion
expenditures: $15.53 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

12% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

12.2% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

19.57% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

17.7% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$4.153 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$7.216 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$1.385 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

bananas, sugarcane, coffee, sisal, corn, cotton, manioc (tapioca),
tobacco, vegetables, plantains; livestock; forest products; fish


Industries:

petroleum; diamonds, iron ore, phosphates, feldspar, bauxite,
uranium, and gold; cement; basic metal products; fish processing;
food processing, brewing, tobacco products, sugar; textiles; ship
repair


Industrial production growth rate:

23.9% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

3.513 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

3.084 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 36.4%
hydro: 63.6%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

1.91 million bbl/day (2008 est.)


Oil - consumption:

55,640 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

1.23 million bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

19,550 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

9.035 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

680 million cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

680 million cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

269.8 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$13.58 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$45.03 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

crude oil, diamonds, refined petroleum products, gas, coffee, sisal,
fish and fish products, timber, cotton


Exports - partners:

US 32.1%, China 32%, France 5.9%, Taiwan 5.3%, South Africa 4.5%
(2007)


Imports:

$12.29 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and electrical equipment, vehicles and spare parts;
medicines, food, textiles, military goods


Imports - partners:

Portugal 19.7%, US 10.9%, China 10.5%, Brazil 10.3%, South Africa
6.6%, France 6.3%, UK 4.6%, Germany 4.3% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$441.8 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$11.2 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$8.357 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$17.23 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$227 million (2006 est.)


Currency (code):

kwanza (AOA)


Currency code:

AOA


Exchange rates:

kwanza (AOA) per US dollar - 76.6 (2007), 80.4 (2006), 88.6 (2005),
83.541 (2004), 74.606 (2003)


Communications
Angola



Telephones - main lines in use:

98,200 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

3.307 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: system inadequate; fewer than one fixed-line per
100 persons; combined fixed line and mobile telephone density
exceeded 25 telephones per 100 persons in 2007
domestic: state-owned telecom had monopoly for fixed-lines until
2005; demand outstripped capacity, prices were high, and services
poor; Telecom Namibia, through an Angolan company, became the first
private licensed operator in Angola's fixed-line telephone network;
Angola Telecom established mobile-cellular service in Luanda in 1993
and the network has been extended to larger towns; a
privately-owned, mobile-cellular service provider began operations
in 2001
international: country code - 244; landing point for the SAT-3/WASC
fiber-optic submarine cable that provides connectivity to Europe and
Asia; satellite earth stations - 29 (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 21, FM 6, shortwave 7 (2001)


Radios:

815,000 (2000)


Television broadcast stations:

6 (2000)


Televisions:

196,000 (2000)


Internet country code:

.ao


Internet hosts:

3,562 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

100,000 (2007)


Transportation
Angola



Airports:

232 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 31
over 3,047 m: 5
2,438 to 3,047 m: 8
1,524 to 2,437 m: 12
914 to 1,523 m: 5
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 201
over 3,047 m: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 5
1,524 to 2,437 m: 30
914 to 1,523 m: 95
under 914 m: 69 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 234 km; liquid petroleum gas 85 km; oil 896 km; oil/gas/water 5
km (2007)


Railways:

total: 2,761 km
narrow gauge: 2,638 km 1.067-m gauge; 123 km 0.600-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 51,429 km
paved: 5,349 km
unpaved: 46,080 km (2001)


Waterways:

1,300 km (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 6
by type: cargo 1, passenger/cargo 2, petroleum tanker 2, roll
on/roll off 1
foreign-owned: 1 (Spain 1)
registered in other countries: 6 (Bahamas 6) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Cabinda, Lobito, Luanda, Namibe


Military
Angola



Military branches:

Angolan Armed Forces (FAA): Army, Navy (Marinha de Guerra, MdG),
Angolan National Air Force (FANA) (2007)


Military service age and obligation:

17 years of age for compulsory military service; conscript service
obligation - 2 years plus time for training (2001)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,856,492
females age 16-49: 2,755,864 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,430,658
females age 16-49: 1,371,689 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 142,791
female: 139,539 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

5.7% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Angola



Disputes - international:

Cabindan separatists continue to return to the Angolan exclave from
exile in neighboring states and Europe since the 2006 ceasefire and
peace agreement


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 12,615 (Democratic Republic of Congo)
IDPs: 61,700 (27-year civil war ending in 2002; 4 million IDPs
already have returned) (2007)


Illicit drugs:

used as a transshipment point for cocaine destined for Western
Europe and other African states, particularly South Africa



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Anguilla

Introduction
Anguilla



Background:

Colonized by English settlers from Saint Kitts in 1650, Anguilla was
administered by Great Britain until the early 19th century, when the
island - against the wishes of the inhabitants - was incorporated
into a single British dependency, along with Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Several attempts at separation failed. In 1971, two years after a
revolt, Anguilla was finally allowed to secede; this arrangement was
formally recognized in 1980, with Anguilla becoming a separate
British dependency.


Geography
Anguilla



Location:

Caribbean, islands between the Caribbean Sea and North Atlantic
Ocean, east of Puerto Rico


Geographic coordinates:

18 15 N, 63 10 W


Map references:

Central America and the Caribbean


Area:

total: 102 sq km
land: 102 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

about half the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

61 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 3 nm
exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; moderated by northeast trade winds


Terrain:

flat and low-lying island of coral and limestone


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
highest point: Crocus Hill 65 m


Natural resources:

salt, fish, lobster


Land use:

arable land: 0%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 100% (mostly rock with sparse scrub oak, few trees, some
commercial salt ponds) (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

frequent hurricanes and other tropical storms (July to October)


Environment - current issues:

supplies of potable water sometimes cannot meet increasing demand
largely because of poor distribution system


Geography - note:

the most northerly of the Leeward Islands in the Lesser Antilles


People
Anguilla



Population:

14,108 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 24.8% (male 1,795/female 1,706)
15-64 years: 67.6% (male 4,569/female 4,970)
65 years and over: 7.6% (male 510/female 558) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 32.3 years
male: 31.3 years
female: 33.4 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.332% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

13.11 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

4.39 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

14.6 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.92 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.91 male(s)/female
total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 3.54 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 4.01 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 3.06 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 80.53 years
male: 78.01 years
female: 83.12 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.75 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Anguillan(s)
adjective: Anguillan


Ethnic groups:

black (predominant) 90.1%, mixed, mulatto 4.6%, white 3.7%, other
1.5% (2001 census)


Religions:

Anglican 29%, Methodist 23.9%, other Protestant 30.2%, Roman
Catholic 5.7%, other Christian 1.7%, other 5.2%, none or unspecified
4.3% (2001 census)


Languages:

English (official)


Literacy:

definition: age 12 and over can read and write
total population: 95%
male: 95%
female: 95% (1984 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 11 years
male: 11 years
female: 11 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

4% of GDP (2005)


Government
Anguilla



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Anguilla


Dependency status:

overseas territory of the UK


Government type:

NA


Capital:

name: The Valley
geographic coordinates: 18 13 N, 63 03 W
time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


Independence:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


National holiday:

Anguilla Day, 30 May (1967)


Constitution:

Anguilla Constitutional Order 1 April 1982; amended 1990


Legal system:

based on English common law


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by Governor Andrew N. GEORGE (since 10 July 2006)
head of government: Chief Minister Osbourne FLEMING (since 3 March
2000)
cabinet: Executive Council appointed by the governor from among the
elected members of the House of Assembly
elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor appointed by the
monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the majority
party or the leader of the majority coalition is usually appointed
chief minister by the governor


Legislative branch:

unicameral House of Assembly (11 seats; 7 members elected by direct
popular vote, 2 ex officio members, and 2 appointed; members serve
five-year terms)
elections: last held 21 February 2005 (next to be held in 2010)
election results: percent of vote by party - AUF 38.9%, AUM 19.4%,
ANSA 19.2%, APP 9.5%, independents 13%; seats by party - AUF 4, ANSA
2, AUM 1


Judicial branch:

High Court (judge provided by Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court)


Political parties and leaders:

Anguilla United Front or AUF [Osbourne FLEMING, Victor BANKS] (a
coalition of the Anguilla Democratic Party or ADP and the Anguilla
National Alliance or ANA); Anguilla United Movement or AUM [Hubert
HUGHES]; Anguilla Progressive Party or APP [Roy ROGERS]; Anguilla
Strategic Alternative or ANSA [Edison BAIRD]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

Caricom (associate), CDB, Interpol (subbureau), OECS, UPU, WFTU


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


Flag description:

blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and
the Anguillan coat of arms centered in the outer half of the flag;
the coat of arms depicts three orange dolphins in an interlocking
circular design on a white background with blue wavy water below


Economy
Anguilla



Economy - overview:

Anguilla has few natural resources, and the economy depends heavily
on luxury tourism, offshore banking, lobster fishing, and
remittances from emigrants. Increased activity in the tourism
industry has spurred the growth of the construction sector,
contributing to economic growth. Anguillan officials have put
substantial effort into developing the offshore financial sector,
which is small, but growing. In the medium term, prospects for the
economy will depend largely on the tourism sector and, therefore, on
revived income growth in the industrialized nations as well as on
favorable weather conditions.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$108.9 million (2004 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$108.9 million (2004 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

10.2% (2004 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$8,800 (2004 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 4%
industry: 18%
services: 78% (2002 est.)


Labor force:

6,049 (2001)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture/fishing/forestry/mining 4%, manufacturing 3%,
construction 18%, transportation and utilities 10%, commerce 36%,
services 29% (2000 est.)


Unemployment rate:

8% (2002)


Population below poverty line:

23% (2002)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $22.8 million
expenditures: $22.5 million (2000 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 April - 31 March


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

5.3% (2006 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

6.5% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

9.76% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$23.57 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$470.1 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$447.7 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

small quantities of tobacco, vegetables; cattle raising


Industries:

tourism, boat building, offshore financial services


Industrial production growth rate:

3.1% (1997 est.)


Electricity - production:

NA kWh


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: NA
hydro: NA
nuclear: NA
other: NA


Current account balance:

-$42.87 million (2003 est.)


Exports:

$13 million (2006)


Exports - commodities:

lobster, fish, livestock, salt, concrete blocks, rum


Exports - partners:

UK, US, Puerto Rico, Saint-Martin (2006)


Imports:

$143 million (2006)


Imports - commodities:

fuels, foodstuffs, manufactures, chemicals, trucks, textiles


Imports - partners:

US, Puerto Rico, UK (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$9 million (2004 est.)


Debt - external:

$8.8 million (1998)


Currency (code):

East Caribbean dollar (XCD)


Currency code:

XCD


Exchange rates:

East Caribbean dollars (XCD) per US dollar - 2.7 (2007), 2.7 (2006),
2.7 (2005), 2.7 (2004), 2.7 (2003)
note: fixed rate since 1976


Communications
Anguilla



Telephones - main lines in use:

6,200 (2002)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

1,800 (2002)


Telephone system:

general assessment: NA
domestic: modern internal telephone system
international: country code - 1-264; landing point for the East
Caribbean Fiber System (ECFS) submarine cable with links to 13 other
islands in the eastern Caribbean extending from the British Virgin
Islands to Trinidad; microwave radio relay to island of Saint Martin
(Guadeloupe and Netherlands Antilles) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 2, FM 7, shortwave 0 (2004)


Radios:

3,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (1997)


Televisions:

1,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.ai


Internet hosts:

205 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

16 (2000)


Internet users:

3,000 (2002)


Transportation
Anguilla



Airports:

3 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 2
under 914 m: 2 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 175 km
paved: 82 km
unpaved: 93 km (2004)


Ports and terminals:

Blowing Point, Road Bay


Military
Anguilla



Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 3,538 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,929 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 103
female: 103 (2008 est.)


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of the UK


Transnational Issues
Anguilla



Disputes - international:

none


Illicit drugs:

transshipment point for South American narcotics destined for the US
and Europe



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Antarctica

Introduction
Antarctica



Background:

Speculation over the existence of a "southern land" was not
confirmed until the early 1820s when British and American commercial
operators and British and Russian national expeditions began
exploring the Antarctic Peninsula region and other areas south of
the Antarctic Circle. Not until 1840 was it established that
Antarctica was indeed a continent and not just a group of islands.
Several exploration "firsts" were achieved in the early 20th
century. Following World War II, there was an upsurge in scientific
research on the continent. A number of countries have set up a range
of year-round and seasonal stations, camps, and refuges to support
scientific research in Antarctica. Seven have made territorial
claims, but not all countries recognize these claims. In order to
form a legal framework for the activities of nations on the
continent, an Antarctic Treaty was negotiated that neither denies
nor gives recognition to existing territorial claims; signed in
1959, it entered into force in 1961.


Geography
Antarctica



Location:

continent mostly south of the Antarctic Circle


Geographic coordinates:

90 00 S, 0 00 E


Map references:

Antarctic Region


Area:

total: 14 million sq km
land: 14 million sq km (280,000 sq km ice-free, 13.72 million sq km
ice-covered) (est.)
note: fifth-largest continent, following Asia, Africa, North
America, and South America, but larger than Australia and the
subcontinent of Europe


Area - comparative:

slightly less than 1.5 times the size of the US


Land boundaries:

0 km
note: see entry on Disputes - international


Coastline:

17,968 km


Maritime claims:

Australia, Chile, and Argentina claim Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ)
rights or similar over 200 nm extensions seaward from their
continental claims, but like the claims themselves, these zones are
not accepted by other countries; 21 of 28 Antarctic consultative
nations have made no claims to Antarctic territory (although Russia
and the US have reserved the right to do so) and do not recognize
the claims of the other nations; also see the Disputes -
international entry


Climate:

severe low temperatures vary with latitude, elevation, and distance
from the ocean; East Antarctica is colder than West Antarctica
because of its higher elevation; Antarctic Peninsula has the most
moderate climate; higher temperatures occur in January along the
coast and average slightly below freezing


Terrain:

about 98% thick continental ice sheet and 2% barren rock, with
average elevations between 2,000 and 4,000 meters; mountain ranges
up to nearly 5,000 meters; ice-free coastal areas include parts of
southern Victoria Land, Wilkes Land, the Antarctic Peninsula area,
and parts of Ross Island on McMurdo Sound; glaciers form ice shelves
along about half of the coastline, and floating ice shelves
constitute 11% of the area of the continent


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Bentley Subglacial Trench -2,555 m
highest point: Vinson Massif 4,897 m
note: the lowest known land point in Antarctica is hidden in the
Bentley Subglacial Trench; at its surface is the deepest ice yet
discovered and the world's lowest elevation not under seawater


Natural resources:

iron ore, chromium, copper, gold, nickel, platinum and other
minerals, and coal and hydrocarbons have been found in small
uncommercial quantities; none presently exploited; krill, finfish,
and crab have been taken by commercial fisheries


Land use:

arable land: 0%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 100% (ice 98%, barren rock 2%) (2005)


Natural hazards:

katabatic (gravity-driven) winds blow coastward from the high
interior; frequent blizzards form near the foot of the plateau;
cyclonic storms form over the ocean and move clockwise along the
coast; volcanism on Deception Island and isolated areas of West
Antarctica; other seismic activity rare and weak; large icebergs may
calve from ice shelf


Environment - current issues:

in 1998, NASA satellite data showed that the Antarctic ozone hole
was the largest on record, covering 27 million square kilometers;
researchers in 1997 found that increased ultraviolet light passing
through the hole damages the DNA of icefish, an Antarctic fish
lacking hemoglobin; ozone depletion earlier was shown to harm
one-celled Antarctic marine plants; in 2002, significant areas of
ice shelves disintegrated in response to regional warming


Geography - note:

the coldest, windiest, highest (on average), and driest continent;
during summer, more solar radiation reaches the surface at the South
Pole than is received at the Equator in an equivalent period; mostly
uninhabitable


People
Antarctica



Population:

no indigenous inhabitants, but there are both permanent and
summer-only staffed research stations
note: 28 nations, all signatory to the Antarctic Treaty, operate
through their National Antarctic Program a number of seasonal-only
(summer) and year-round research stations on the continent and its
nearby islands south of 60 degrees south latitude (the region
covered by the Antarctic Treaty); these stations' population of
persons doing and supporting science or engaged in the management
and protection of the Antarctic region varies from approximately
4,000 in summer to 1,000 in winter; in addition, approximately 1,000
personnel, including ship's crew and scientists doing onboard
research, are present in the waters of the treaty region; peak
summer (December-February) population - 4,219 total; Argentina 667,
Australia 200, Brazil 40, Bulgaria 15, Chile 237, China 70, Czech
Republic 20, Ecuador 26, Finland 20, France 100, France and Italy
jointly 45, Germany 90, India 65, Italy 90, Japan 125, South Korea
70, NZ 85, Norway 44, Peru 28, Poland 40, Romania 3, Russia 429,
South Africa 80, Spain 28, Sweden 20, Ukraine 24, UK 205, US 1,293,
Uruguay 60 (2007-2008); winter (June-August) station population -
1,088 total; Argentina 176, Australia 62, Brazil 12, Chile 96, China
29, France 26, France and Italy jointly 13, Germany 9, India 25,
Italy 2, Japan 40, South Korea 18, NZ 10, Norway 7, Poland 12,
Russia 148, South Africa 10, Ukraine 12, UK 37, US 337, Uruguay 9
(2008); research stations operated within the Antarctic Treaty area
(south of 60 degrees south latitude) by National Antarctic Programs:
year-round stations - 38 total; Argentina 6, Australia 3, Brazil 1,
Chile 4, China 2, France 1, France and Italy jointly 1, Germany 1,
India 1, Japan 1, South Korea 1, NZ 1, Norway 1, Poland 1, Russia 5,
South Africa 1, Ukraine 1, UK 2, US 3, Uruguay 1 (2008); a range of
seasonal-only (summer) stations, camps, and refuges - Argentina,
Australia, Bulgaria, Brazil, Chile, China, Czech Republic, Ecuador,
Finland, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, South Korea, New
Zealand, Norway, Peru, Poland, Romania, Russia, Spain, Sweden,
Ukraine, UK, US, and Uruguay (2007-2008); in addition, during the
austral summer some nations have numerous occupied locations such as
tent camps, summer-long temporary facilities, and mobile traverses
in support of research (March 2008 est.)


Government
Antarctica



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Antarctica


Government type:

Antarctic Treaty Summary - the Antarctic Treaty, signed on 1
December 1959 and entered into force on 23 June 1961, establishes
the legal framework for the management of Antarctica; the 30th
Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting was held in Delhi, India in
April/May 2007; at these periodic meetings, decisions are made by
consensus (not by vote) of all consultative member nations; at the
end of 2007, there were 46 treaty member nations: 28 consultative
and 18 non-consultative; consultative (decision-making) members
include the seven nations that claim portions of Antarctica as
national territory (some claims overlap) and 21 non-claimant
nations; the US and Russia have reserved the right to make claims;
the US does not recognize the claims of others; Antarctica is
administered through meetings of the consultative member nations;
decisions from these meetings are carried out by these member
nations (with respect to their own nationals and operations) in
accordance with their own national laws; the years in parentheses
indicate when a consultative member-nation acceded to the Treaty and
when it was accepted as a consultative member, while no date
indicates the country was an original 1959 treaty signatory;
claimant nations are - Argentina, Australia, Chile, France, NZ,
Norway, and the UK. Nonclaimant consultative nations are - Belgium,
Brazil (1975/1983), Bulgaria (1978/1998) China (1983/1985), Ecuador
(1987/1990), Finland (1984/1989), Germany (1979/1981), India
(1983/1983), Italy (1981/1987), Japan, South Korea (1986/1989),
Netherlands (1967/1990), Peru (1981/1989), Poland (1961/1977),
Russia, South Africa, Spain (1982/1988), Sweden (1984/1988), Ukraine
(1992/2004), Uruguay (1980/1985), and the US; non-consultative
members, with year of accession in parentheses, are - Austria
(1987), Belarus (2006), Canada (1988), Colombia (1989), Cuba (1984),
Czech Republic (1962/1993), Denmark (1965), Estonia (2001), Greece
(1987), Guatemala (1991), Hungary (1984), North Korea (1987), Papua
New Guinea (1981), Romania (1971), Slovakia (1962/1993), Switzerland
(1990), Turkey (1996), and Venezuela (1999); note - Czechoslovakia
acceded to the Treaty in 1962 and separated into the Czech Republic
and Slovakia in 1993; Article 1 - area to be used for peaceful
purposes only; military activity, such as weapons testing, is
prohibited, but military personnel and equipment may be used for
scientific research or any other peaceful purpose; Article 2 -
freedom of scientific investigation and cooperation shall continue;
Article 3 - free exchange of information and personnel, cooperation
with the UN and other international agencies; Article 4 - does not
recognize, dispute, or establish territorial claims and no new
claims shall be asserted while the treaty is in force; Article 5 -
prohibits nuclear explosions or disposal of radioactive wastes;
Article 6 - includes under the treaty all land and ice shelves south
of 60 degrees 00 minutes south and reserves high seas rights;
Article 7 - treaty-state observers have free access, including
aerial observation, to any area and may inspect all stations,
installations, and equipment; advance notice of all expeditions and
of the introduction of military personnel must be given; Article 8 -
allows for jurisdiction over observers and scientists by their own
states; Article 9 - frequent consultative meetings take place among
member nations; Article 10 - treaty states will discourage
activities by any country in Antarctica that are contrary to the
treaty; Article 11 - disputes to be settled peacefully by the
parties concerned or, ultimately, by the ICJ; Articles 12, 13, 14 -
deal with upholding, interpreting, and amending the treaty among
involved nations; other agreements - some 200 recommendations
adopted at treaty consultative meetings and ratified by governments
include - Agreed Measures for Fauna and Flora (1964) which were
later incorporated into the Environmental Protocol; Convention for
the Conservation of Antarctic Seals (1972); Convention on the
Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (1980); a mineral
resources agreement was signed in 1988 but remains unratified; the
Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty was
signed 4 October 1991 and entered into force 14 January 1998; this
agreement provides for the protection of the Antarctic environment
through six specific annexes: 1) environmental impact assessment, 2)
conservation of Antarctic fauna and flora, 3) waste disposal and
waste management, 4) prevention of marine pollution, 5) area
protection and management and 6) liability arising from
environmental emergencies; it prohibits all activities relating to
mineral resources except scientific research; a permanent Antarctic
Treaty Secretariat was established in 2004 in Buenos Aires, Argentina


Legal system:

Antarctica is administered through meetings of the consultative
member nations; decisions from these meetings are carried out by
these member nations (with respect to their own nationals and
operations) in accordance with their own national laws; US law,
including certain criminal offenses by or against US nationals, such
as murder, may apply extraterritorially; some US laws directly apply
to Antarctica; for example, the Antarctic Conservation Act, 16
U.S.C. section 2401 et seq., provides civil and criminal penalties
for the following activities, unless authorized by regulation of
statute: the taking of native mammals or birds; the introduction of
nonindigenous plants and animals; entry into specially protected
areas; the discharge or disposal of pollutants; and the importation
into the US of certain items from Antarctica; violation of the
Antarctic Conservation Act carries penalties of up to $10,000 in
fines and one year in prison; the National Science Foundation and
Department of Justice share enforcement responsibilities; Public Law
95-541, the US Antarctic Conservation Act of 1978, as amended in
1996, requires expeditions from the US to Antarctica to notify, in
advance, the Office of Oceans, Room 5805, Department of State,
Washington, DC 20520, which reports such plans to other nations as
required by the Antarctic Treaty; for more information, contact
Permit Office, Office of Polar Programs, National Science
Foundation, Arlington, Virginia 22230; telephone: (703) 292-8030, or
visit their website at www.nsf.gov; more generally, access to the
Antarctic Treaty area, that is to all areas between 60 and 90
degrees south latitude, is subject to a number of relevant legal
instruments and authorization procedures adopted by the states party
to the Antarctic Treaty


Economy
Antarctica



Economy - overview:

Fishing off the coast and tourism, both based abroad, account for
Antarctica's limited economic activity. Antarctic fisheries in
2005-06 (1 July-30 June) reported landing 128,081 metric tons
(estimated fishing from the area covered by the Convention on the
Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (CCAMLR), which
extends slightly beyond the Antarctic Treaty area). Unregulated
fishing, particularly of Patagonian toothfish (Dissostichus
eleginoides), is a serious problem. The CCAMLR determines the
recommended catch limits for marine species. A total of 36,460
tourists visited the Antarctic Treaty area in the 2006-07 Antarctic
summer, up from the 30,877 visitors the previous year (estimates
provided to the Antarctic Treaty by the International Association of
Antarctica Tour Operators (IAATO); this does not include passengers
on overflights). Nearly all of them were passengers on commercial
(nongovernmental) ships and several yachts that make trips during
the summer. Most tourist trips last approximately two weeks.


Communications
Antarctica



Telephones - main lines in use:

0; note - information for US bases only (2001)


Telephone system:

general assessment: local systems at some research stations
domestic: commercial cellular networks operating in a small number
of locations
international: country code - none allocated; via satellite
(including mobile Inmarsat and Iridium systems) to and from all
research stations, ships, aircraft, and most field parties (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

FM 2, shortwave 1 (information for US bases only); note - many
research stations have a local FM radio station (2007)


Radios:

NA


Television broadcast stations:

1 (cable system with 6 channels; American Forces Antarctic
Network-McMurdo - information for US bases only) (2002)


Televisions:

several hundred at McMurdo Station (US)
note: information for US bases only (2001)


Internet country code:

.aq


Internet hosts:

7,748 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

NA


Transportation
Antarctica



Airports:

27 (2008)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 27
over 3,047 m: 6
2,438 to 3,047 m: 5
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 9
under 914 m: 6 (2008)


Heliports:

53
note: all year-round and seasonal stations operated by National
Antarctic Programs stations have some kind of helicopter landing
facilities, prepared (helipads) or unprepared (2007)


Ports and terminals:

there are no developed ports and harbors in Antarctica; most coastal
stations have offshore anchorages, and supplies are transferred from
ship to shore by small boats, barges, and helicopters; a few
stations have a basic wharf facility; US coastal stations include
McMurdo (77 51 S, 166 40 E), and Palmer (64 43 S, 64 03 W);
government use only except by permit (see Permit Office under "Legal
System"); all ships at port are subject to inspection in accordance
with Article 7, Antarctic Treaty; offshore anchorage is sparse and
intermittent; relevant legal instruments and authorization
procedures adopted by the states parties to the Antarctic Treaty
regulating access to the Antarctic Treaty area, to all areas between
60 and 90 degrees of latitude south, have to be complied with (see
"Legal System"); The Hydrographic Committee on Antarctica (HCA), a
special hydrographic commission of International Hydrographic
Organization (IHO), is responsible for hydrographic surveying and
nautical charting matters in Antarctic Treaty area; it coordinates
and facilitates provision of accurate and appropriate charts and
other aids to navigation in support of safety of navigation in
region; membership of HCA is open to any IHO Member State whose
government has acceded to the Antarctic Treaty and which contributes
resources and/or data to IHO Chart coverage of the area; members of
HCA are Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Chile, China, Ecuador, France,
Germany, Greece, India, Italy, NZ, Norway, Russia, South Africa,
Spain, UK, and US (2007)


Military
Antarctica



Military - note:

the Antarctic Treaty prohibits any measures of a military nature,
such as the establishment of military bases and fortifications, the
carrying out of military maneuvers, or the testing of any type of
weapon; it permits the use of military personnel or equipment for
scientific research or for any other peaceful purposes


Transnational Issues
Antarctica



Disputes - international:

the Antarctic Treaty freezes, and most states do not recognize, the
land and maritime territorial claims made by Argentina, Australia,
Chile, France, New Zealand, Norway, and the United Kingdom (some
overlapping) for three-fourths of the continent; the US and Russia
reserve the right to make claims; no claims have been made in the
sector between 90 degrees west and 150 degrees west; the
International Whaling Commission created a sancturary around the
entire continent to deter catches by countries claiming to conduct
scientific whaling; Australia has established a similar preserve in
the waters around its territorial claim



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Antigua and Barbuda

Introduction
Antigua and Barbuda



Background:

The Siboney were the first to inhabit the islands of Antigua and
Barbuda in 2400 B.C., but Arawak Indians populated the islands when
COLUMBUS landed on his second voyage in 1493. Early settlements by
the Spanish and French were succeeded by the English who formed a
colony in 1667. Slavery, established to run the sugar plantations on
Antigua, was abolished in 1834. The islands became an independent
state within the British Commonwealth of Nations in 1981.


Geography
Antigua and Barbuda



Location:

Caribbean, islands between the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic
Ocean, east-southeast of Puerto Rico


Geographic coordinates:

17 03 N, 61 48 W


Map references:

Central America and the Caribbean


Area:

total: 442.6 sq km (Antigua 280 sq km; Barbuda 161 sq km)
land: 442.6 sq km
water: 0 sq km
note: includes Redonda, 1.6 sq km


Area - comparative:

2.5 times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

153 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin


Climate:

tropical maritime; little seasonal temperature variation


Terrain:

mostly low-lying limestone and coral islands, with some higher
volcanic areas


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
highest point: Boggy Peak 402 m


Natural resources:

NEGL; pleasant climate fosters tourism


Land use:

arable land: 18.18%
permanent crops: 4.55%
other: 77.27% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Total renewable water resources:

0.1 cu km (2000)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.005 cu km/yr (60%/20%/20%)
per capita: 63 cu m/yr (1990)


Natural hazards:

hurricanes and tropical storms (July to October); periodic droughts


Environment - current issues:

water management - a major concern because of limited natural fresh
water resources - is further hampered by the clearing of trees to
increase crop production, causing rainfall to run off quickly


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

Antigua has a deeply indented shoreline with many natural harbors
and beaches; Barbuda has a large western harbor


People
Antigua and Barbuda



Population:

84,522 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 27.2% (male 11,670/female 11,318)
15-64 years: 66.3% (male 26,138/female 29,859)
65 years and over: 6.6% (male 2,408/female 3,129) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 29.5 years
male: 28 years
female: 30.8 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.305% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

16.78 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

6.14 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

2.41 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.88 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.77 male(s)/female
total population: 0.91 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 17.49 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 20.21 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 14.62 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 74.25 years
male: 72.33 years
female: 76.26 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.08 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Antiguan(s), Barbudan(s)
adjective: Antiguan, Barbudan


Ethnic groups:

black 91%, mixed 4.4%, white 1.7%, other 2.9% (2001 census)


Religions:

Anglican 25.7%, Seventh Day Adventist 12.3%, Pentecostal 10.6%,
Moravian 10.5%, Roman Catholic 10.4%, Methodist 7.9%, Baptist 4.9%,
Church of God 4.5%, other Christian 5.4%, other 2%, none or
unspecified 5.8% (2001 census)


Languages:

English (official), local dialects


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over has completed five or more years of
schooling
total population: 85.8%
male: NA%
female: NA% (2003 est.)


Education expenditures:

3.9% of GDP (2002)


Government
Antigua and Barbuda



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Antigua and Barbuda


Government type:

constitutional monarchy with a parliamentary system of government


Capital:

name: Saint John's
geographic coordinates: 17 07 N, 61 51 W
time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

6 parishes and 2 dependencies*; Barbuda*, Redonda*, Saint George,
Saint John, Saint Mary, Saint Paul, Saint Peter, Saint Philip


Independence:

1 November 1981 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day (National Day), 1 November (1981)


Constitution:

1 November 1981


Legal system:

based on English common law


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by Governor General Louisse LAKE-TACK (since 17 July
2007)
head of government: Prime Minister Winston Baldwin SPENCER (since 24
March 2004)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the governor general on
the advice of the prime minister
elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor general chosen by the
monarch on the advice of the prime minister; following legislative
elections, the leader of the majority party or the leader of the
majority coalition is usually appointed prime minister by the
governor general


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (17 seats; members
appointed by the governor general) and the House of Representatives
(17 seats; members are elected by proportional representation to
serve five-year terms)
elections: House of Representatives - last held 23 March 2004 (next
to be held in 2009)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
ALP 4, UPP 13


Judicial branch:

Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court (based in Saint Lucia; one judge of
the Supreme Court is a resident of the islands and presides over the
Court of Summary Jurisdiction); member Caribbean Court of Justice


Political parties and leaders:

Antigua Labor Party or ALP [Lester Bryant BIRD]; Barbudans for a
Better Barbuda [Ordrick SAMUEL]; Barbuda People's Movement or BPM
[Thomas H. FRANK]; Barbuda People's Movement for Change [Arthur
NIBBS]; United Progressive Party or UPP [Baldwin SPENCER] (a
coalition of three parties - Antigua Caribbean Liberation Movement
or ACLM, Progressive Labor Movement or PLM, United National
Democratic Party or UNDP)


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Antigua Trades and Labor Union or ATLU [William ROBINSON]; People's
Democratic Movement or PDM [Hugh MARSHALL]


International organization participation:

ACP, C, Caricom, CDB, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD,
IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, ISO (subscriber), ITU,
ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OAS, OECS, OPANAL, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU,
WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Deborah Mae LOVELL
chancery: 3216 New Mexico Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20016
telephone: [1] (202) 362-5122
FAX: [1] (202) 362-5225
consulate(s) general: Miami


Diplomatic representation from the US:

the US does not have an embassy in Antigua and Barbuda; the US
Ambassador to Barbados is accredited to Antigua and Barbuda


Flag description:

red, with an inverted isosceles triangle based on the top edge of
the flag; the triangle contains three horizontal bands of black
(top), light blue, and white, with a yellow rising sun in the black
band


Economy
Antigua and Barbuda



Economy - overview:

Antigua has a relatively high GDP per capita in comparison to most
other Caribbean nations. It has experienced solid growth since 2003,
driven by a construction boom in hotels and housing that which
should wind down in 2008. Tourism continues to dominate the economy,
accounting for more than half of GDP. The dual-island nation's
agricultural production is focused on the domestic market and
constrained by a limited water supply and a labor shortage stemming
from the lure of higher wages in tourism and construction.
Manufacturing comprises enclave-type assembly for export with major
products being bedding, handicrafts, and electronic components.
Prospects for economic growth in the medium term will continue to
depend on income growth in the industrialized world, especially in
the US, which accounts for slightly more than one-third of tourist
arrivals. Since taking office in 2004, the SPENCER government has
adopted an ambitious fiscal reform program, but will continue to be
saddled by its debt burden with a debt-to-GDP ratio exceeding 100%.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$1.526 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$1.089 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6.1% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$18,300 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 3.8%
industry: 22%
services: 74.3% (2002 est.)


Labor force:

30,000 (1991)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 7%
industry: 11%
services: 82% (1983)


Unemployment rate:

11% (2001 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $123.7 million
expenditures: $145.9 million (2000 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 April - 31 March


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

1.5% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

6.5% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

10.44% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$294.8 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$902 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$1.002 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

cotton, fruits, vegetables, bananas, coconuts, cucumbers, mangoes,
sugarcane; livestock


Industries:

tourism, construction, light manufacturing (clothing, alcohol,
household appliances)


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

105 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

97.65 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

4,109 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

157.7 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

4,556 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

$-211 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$84.3 million (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

petroleum products, bedding, handicrafts, electronic components,
transport equipment, food and live animals


Exports - partners:

Spain 34%, Germany 20.7%, Italy 7.7%, Singapore 5.8%, UK 4.9% (2006)


Imports:

$522.8 million (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

food and live animals, machinery and transport equipment,
manufactures, chemicals, oil


Imports - partners:

US 21.1%, China 16.4%, Germany 13.3%, Singapore 12.7%, Spain 6.5%
(2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$7.23 million (2005)


Debt - external:

$359.8 million (June 2006)


Currency (code):

East Caribbean dollar (XCD)


Currency code:

XCD


Exchange rates:

East Caribbean dollars (XCD) per US dollar - 2.7 (2007), 2.7 (2006),
2.7 (2005), 2.7 (2004), 2.7 (2003)
note: fixed rate since 1976


Communications
Antigua and Barbuda



Telephones - main lines in use:

37,500 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

110,200 (2006)


Telephone system:

general assessment: NA
domestic: good automatic telephone system
international: country code - 1-268; landing point for the East
Caribbean Fiber System (ECFS) submarine cable with links to 13 other
islands in the eastern Caribbean extending from the British Virgin
Islands to Trinidad; satellite earth stations - 2; tropospheric
scatter to Saba (Netherlands Antilles) and Guadeloupe (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 4, FM 2, shortwave 0 (1998)


Radios:

36,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

2 (1997)


Televisions:

31,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.ag


Internet hosts:

2,215 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

16 (2000)


Internet users:

60,000 (2007)


Transportation
Antigua and Barbuda



Airports:

3 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 1
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 1,165 km
paved: 384 km
unpaved: 781 km (2002)


Merchant marine:

total: 1,146
by type: barge carrier 2, bulk carrier 50, cargo 651, carrier 4,
chemical tanker 5, container 392, liquefied gas 12, petroleum tanker
1, refrigerated cargo 9, roll on/roll off 20
foreign-owned: 1,113 (Australia 1, Colombia 2, Cyprus 18, Denmark
19, Estonia 23, France 1, Germany 941, Greece 3, Iceland 12, Italy
1, Latvia 13, Lithuania 5, Netherlands 20, NZ 2, Norway 8, Poland 2,
Russia 4, Slovenia 6, Sweden 1, Switzerland 8, Turkey 6, UK 9, US 8)
(2008)


Ports and terminals:

Saint John's


Military
Antigua and Barbuda



Military branches:

Royal Antigua and Barbuda Defense Force (2007)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service; no conscription
(2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 19,560
females age 16-49: 18,977 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 15,591
females age 16-49: 15,542 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 744
female: 742 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

NA


Transnational Issues
Antigua and Barbuda



Disputes - international:

none


Illicit drugs:

considered a minor transshipment point for narcotics bound for the
US and Europe; more significant as an offshore financial center



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Arctic Ocean

Introduction
Arctic Ocean



Background:

The Arctic Ocean is the smallest of the world's five oceans (after
the Pacific Ocean, Atlantic Ocean, Indian Ocean, and the recently
delimited Southern Ocean). The Northwest Passage (US and Canada) and
Northern Sea Route (Norway and Russia) are two important seasonal
waterways. A sparse network of air, ocean, river, and land routes
circumscribes the Arctic Ocean.


Geography
Arctic Ocean



Location:

body of water between Europe, Asia, and North America, mostly north
of the Arctic Circle


Geographic coordinates:

90 00 N, 0 00 E


Map references:

Arctic Region


Area:

total: 14.056 million sq km
note: includes Baffin Bay, Barents Sea, Beaufort Sea, Chukchi Sea,
East Siberian Sea, Greenland Sea, Hudson Bay, Hudson Strait, Kara
Sea, Laptev Sea, Northwest Passage, and other tributary water bodies


Area - comparative:

slightly less than 1.5 times the size of the US


Coastline:

45,389 km


Climate:

polar climate characterized by persistent cold and relatively narrow
annual temperature ranges; winters characterized by continuous
darkness, cold and stable weather conditions, and clear skies;
summers characterized by continuous daylight, damp and foggy
weather, and weak cyclones with rain or snow


Terrain:

central surface covered by a perennial drifting polar icepack that,
on average, is about 3 meters thick, although pressure ridges may be
three times that thickness; clockwise drift pattern in the Beaufort
Gyral Stream, but nearly straight-line movement from the New
Siberian Islands (Russia) to Denmark Strait (between Greenland and
Iceland); the icepack is surrounded by open seas during the summer,
but more than doubles in size during the winter and extends to the
encircling landmasses; the ocean floor is about 50% continental
shelf (highest percentage of any ocean) with the remainder a central
basin interrupted by three submarine ridges (Alpha Cordillera,
Nansen Cordillera, and Lomonosov Ridge)


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Fram Basin -4,665 m
highest point: sea level 0 m


Natural resources:

sand and gravel aggregates, placer deposits, polymetallic nodules,
oil and gas fields, fish, marine mammals (seals and whales)


Natural hazards:

ice islands occasionally break away from northern Ellesmere Island;
icebergs calved from glaciers in western Greenland and extreme
northeastern Canada; permafrost in islands; virtually ice locked
from October to June; ships subject to superstructure icing from
October to May


Environment - current issues:

endangered marine species include walruses and whales; fragile
ecosystem slow to change and slow to recover from disruptions or
damage; thinning polar icepack


Geography - note:

major chokepoint is the southern Chukchi Sea (northern access to the
Pacific Ocean via the Bering Strait); strategic location between
North America and Russia; shortest marine link between the extremes
of eastern and western Russia; floating research stations operated
by the US and Russia; maximum snow cover in March or April about 20
to 50 centimeters over the frozen ocean; snow cover lasts about 10
months




Economy
Arctic Ocean



Economy - overview:

Economic activity is limited to the exploitation of natural
resources, including petroleum, natural gas, fish, and seals.



Transportation
Arctic Ocean



Ports and terminals:

Churchill (Canada), Murmansk (Russia), Prudhoe Bay (US)


Transportation - note:

sparse network of air, ocean, river, and land routes; the Northwest
Passage (North America) and Northern Sea Route (Eurasia) are
important seasonal waterways



Transnational Issues
Arctic Ocean



Disputes - international:

the littoral states are engaged in various stages of demonstrating
the limits of their continental shelves beyond 200 nautical miles
from their declared baselines in accordance with Article 76,
paragraph 8, of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea;
record summer melting of sea ice in the Arctic has restimulated
interest in maritime shipping lanes and sea floor exploration



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Argentina

Introduction
Argentina



Background:

In 1816, the United Provinces of the Rio Plata declared their
independence from Spain. After Bolivia, Paraguay, and Uruguay went
their separate ways, the area that remained became Argentina. The
country's population and culture were heavily shaped by immigrants
from throughout Europe, but most particularly Italy and Spain, which
provided the largest percentage of newcomers from 1860 to 1930. Up
until about the mid-20th century, much of Argentina's history was
dominated by periods of internal political conflict between
Federalists and Unitarians and between civilian and military
factions. After World War II, an era of Peronist authoritarian rule
and interference in subsequent governments was followed by a
military junta that took power in 1976. Democracy returned in 1983,
and has persisted despite numerous challenges, the most formidable
of which was a severe economic crisis in 2001-02 that led to violent
public protests and the resignation of several interim presidents.
The economy has recovered strongly since bottoming out in 2002.


Geography
Argentina



Location:

Southern South America, bordering the South Atlantic Ocean, between
Chile and Uruguay


Geographic coordinates:

34 00 S, 64 00 W


Map references:

South America


Area:

total: 2,766,890 sq km
land: 2,736,690 sq km
water: 30,200 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly less than three-tenths the size of the US


Land boundaries:

total: 9,861 km
border countries: Bolivia 832 km, Brazil 1,261 km, Chile 5,308 km,
Paraguay 1,880 km, Uruguay 580 km


Coastline:

4,989 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin


Climate:

mostly temperate; arid in southeast; subantarctic in southwest


Terrain:

rich plains of the Pampas in northern half, flat to rolling plateau
of Patagonia in south, rugged Andes along western border


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Laguna del Carbon -105 m (located between Puerto San
Julian and Comandante Luis Piedra Buena in the province of Santa
Cruz)
highest point: Cerro Aconcagua 6,960 m (located in the northwestern
corner of the province of Mendoza)


Natural resources:

fertile plains of the pampas, lead, zinc, tin, copper, iron ore,
manganese, petroleum, uranium


Land use:

arable land: 10.03%
permanent crops: 0.36%
other: 89.61% (2005)


Irrigated land:

15,500 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

814 cu km (2000)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 29.19 cu km/yr (17%/9%/74%)
per capita: 753 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

San Miguel de Tucuman and Mendoza areas in the Andes subject to
earthquakes; pamperos are violent windstorms that can strike the
pampas and northeast; heavy flooding


Environment - current issues:

environmental problems (urban and rural) typical of an
industrializing economy such as deforestation, soil degradation,
desertification, air pollution, and water pollution
note: Argentina is a world leader in setting voluntary greenhouse
gas targets


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living
Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate
Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered
Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: Marine Life Conservation


Geography - note:

second-largest country in South America (after Brazil); strategic
location relative to sea lanes between the South Atlantic and the
South Pacific Oceans (Strait of Magellan, Beagle Channel, Drake
Passage); diverse geophysical landscapes range from tropical
climates in the north to tundra in the far south; Cerro Aconcagua is
the Western Hemisphere's tallest mountain, while Laguna del Carbon
is the lowest point in the Western Hemisphere


People
Argentina



Population:

40.482 million (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 25.8% (male 5,341,642/female 5,095,325)
15-64 years: 63.5% (male 12,807,458/female 12,884,745)
65 years and over: 10.8% (male 1,784,652/female 2,568,176) (2008
est.)


Median age:

total: 29.7 years
male: 28.8 years
female: 30.8 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.068% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

18.11 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

7.43 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.7 male(s)/female
total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 11.78 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 13.12 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 10.37 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 76.36 years
male: 73.11 years
female: 79.77 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.37 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.7% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

130,000 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

1,500 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: intermediate
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A
water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Argentine(s)
adjective: Argentine


Ethnic groups:

white (mostly Spanish and Italian) 97%, mestizo (mixed white and
Amerindian ancestry), Amerindian, or other non-white groups 3%


Religions:

nominally Roman Catholic 92% (less than 20% practicing), Protestant
2%, Jewish 2%, other 4%


Languages:

Spanish (official), Italian, English, German, French


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 97.2%
male: 97.2%
female: 97.2% (2001 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 15 years
male: 14 years
female: 16 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

3.8% of GDP (2004)


Government
Argentina



Country name:

conventional long form: Argentine Republic
conventional short form: Argentina
local long form: Republica Argentina
local short form: Argentina


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Buenos Aires
geographic coordinates: 34 36 S, 58 40 W
time difference: UTC-3 (2 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins first Sunday in October; ends
third Saturday in March; note - a new policy of daylight saving time
was initiated by the government on 30 December 2007


Administrative divisions:

23 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia) and 1 autonomous
city* (distrito federal); Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires Capital
Federal*, Catamarca, Chaco, Chubut, Cordoba, Corrientes, Entre Rios,
Formosa, Jujuy, La Pampa, La Rioja, Mendoza, Misiones, Neuquen, Rio
Negro, Salta, San Juan, San Luis, Santa Cruz, Santa Fe, Santiago del
Estero, Tierra del Fuego - Antartida e Islas del Atlantico Sur,
Tucuman
note: the US does not recognize any claims to Antarctica


Independence:

9 July 1816 (from Spain)


National holiday:

Revolution Day, 25 May (1810)


Constitution:

1 May 1853; amended many times starting in 1860


Legal system:

mixture of US and West European legal systems; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal and compulsory


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Cristina FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER (since 10
December 2007); Vice President Julio COBOS (since 10 December 2007);
note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government
head of government: President Cristina FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER (since
10 December 2007); Vice President Julio COBOS (since 10 December
2007)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president
elections: president and vice president elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for four-year terms (eligible for a second term);
election last held 28 October 2007 (next election to be held in 2011)
election results: Cristina FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER elected president;
percent of vote - Cristina FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER 45%, Elisa CARRIO
23%, Roberto LAVAGNA 17%, Alberto Rodriguez SAA 8%


Legislative branch:

bicameral National Congress or Congreso Nacional consists of the
Senate (72 seats; members are elected by direct vote; presently
one-third of the members elected every two years to serve six-year
terms) and the Chamber of Deputies (257 seats; members are elected
by direct vote; one-half of the members elected every two years to
serve four-year terms)
elections: Senate - last held 28 October 2007 (next to be held in
2009); Chamber of Deputies - last held last held 28 October 2007
(next to be held in 2009)
election results: Senate - percent of vote by bloc or party - NA;
seats by bloc or party - FV 12, UCR 4, CC 4, other 4; Chamber of
Deputies - percent of vote by bloc or party - NA; seats by bloc or
party - FV 5, UCR 10, PJ 10, PRO 6, CC 16, FJ 2, other 31; note -
Senate and Chamber of Deputies seating reflect the number of
replaced senators and deputies, rather than the whole Senate and
Chamber of Deputies


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (the nine Supreme Court judges are
appointed by the president with approval of the Senate)
note: the Supreme Court currently has two unfilled vacancies, and
the Argentine Congress is considering a bill to reduce the number of
Supreme Court judges to five


Political parties and leaders:

Coalicion Civica (a broad coalition loosely affiliated with Elisa
CARRIO); Front for Victory or FV (a broad coalition, including
elements of the UCR and numerous provincial parties) [Cristina
FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER]; Interbloque Federal or IF (a broad coalition
of approximately 12 parties including PRO); Justicialist Front or
FJ; Justicialist Party or PJ (Peronist umbrella political
organization); Radical Civic Union or UCR [Gerardo MORALES];
Republican Proposal or PRO (including Federal Recreate Movement or
RECREAR [Ricardo LOPEZ MURPHY] and Commitment for Change or CPC
[Mauricio MACRI]); Socialist Party or PS [Ruben GIUSTINIANI]; Union
For All [Patricia BULLRICH]; several provincial parties


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Argentine Association of Pharmaceutical Labs (CILFA); Argentine
Industrial Union (manufacturers' association); Argentine Rural
Confederation or CRA (small to medium landowners' association);
Argentine Rural Society (large landowners' association); Central of
Argentine Workers or CTA (a radical union for employed and
unemployed workers); General Confederation of Labor or CGT
(Peronist-leaning umbrella labor organization); Roman Catholic Church
other: business organizations; Peronist-dominated labor movement;
Piquetero groups (popular protest organizations that can be either
pro or anti-government); students


International organization participation:

AfDB (nonregional members), Australia Group, BCIE, BIS, CAN
(associate), FAO, G-15, G-24, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO,
Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES, LAIA, Mercosur,
MIGA, MINURSO, MINUSTAH, NSG, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN,
UNASUR, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNIDO, Union Latina
(observer), UNTSO, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO,
ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Hector Marcos TIMERMAN
chancery: 1600 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009
telephone: [1] (202) 238-6400
FAX: [1] (202) 332-3171
consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami,
New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Earl Anthony WAYNE
embassy: Avenida Colombia 4300, C1425GMN Buenos Aires
mailing address: international mail: use embassy street address; APO
address: US Embassy Buenos Aires, Unit 4334, APO AA 34034
telephone: [54] (11) 5777-4533
FAX: [54] (11) 5777-4240


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of light blue (top), white, and light
blue; centered in the white band is a radiant yellow sun with a
human face known as the Sun of May


Economy
Argentina



Economy - overview:

Argentina benefits from rich natural resources, a highly literate
population, an export-oriented agricultural sector, and a
diversified industrial base. Although one of the world's wealthiest
countries 100 years ago, Argentina suffered during most of the 20th
century from recurring economic crises, persistent fiscal and
current account deficits, high inflation, mounting external debt,
and capital flight. A severe depression, growing public and external
indebtedness, and a bank run culminated in 2001 in the most serious
economic, social, and political crisis in the country's turbulent
history. Interim President Adolfo RODRIGUEZ SAA declared a default -
the largest in history - on the government's foreign debt in
December of that year, and abruptly resigned only a few days after
taking office. His successor, Eduardo DUHALDE, announced an end to
the peso's decade-long 1-to-1 peg to the US dollar in early 2002.
The economy bottomed out that year, with real GDP 18% smaller than
in 1998 and almost 60% of Argentines under the poverty line. Real
GDP rebounded to grow by an average 9% annually over the subsequent
five years, taking advantage of previously idled industrial capacity
and labor, an audacious debt restructuring and reduced debt burden,
excellent international financial conditions, and expansionary
monetary and fiscal policies. Inflation, however, reached
double-digit levels in 2006 and the government of President Nestor
KIRCHNER responded with "voluntary" price agreements with
businesses, as well as export taxes and restraints. Multi-year price
freezes on electricity and natural gas rates for residential users
stoked consumption and kept private investment away, leading to
restrictions on industrial use and blackouts in 2007.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$526.4 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$260 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

8.7% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$13,100 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 9.5%
industry: 34%
services: 56.5% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

16.03 million
note: urban areas only (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 1%
industry: 23%
services: 76% (2007 est.)


Unemployment rate:

8.5% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

23.4% (January-June 2007)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 1%
highest 10%: 35% (January-March 2007)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

49 (2006)


Investment (gross fixed):

24.2% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $48.99 billion
expenditures: $61.23 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

56.1% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

8.8% official rate; actual rate may be double the official rate
(2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

NA


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

11.05% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$33.93 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$45.92 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$72.55 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

sunflower seeds, lemons, soybeans, grapes, corn, tobacco, peanuts,
tea, wheat; livestock


Industries:

food processing, motor vehicles, consumer durables, textiles,
chemicals and petrochemicals, printing, metallurgy, steel


Industrial production growth rate:

7.5% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

109.4 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

97.72 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

2.628 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

10.27 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 52.2%
hydro: 40.8%
nuclear: 6.7%
other: 0.2% (2001)


Oil - production:

790,800 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

525,100 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

339,900 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

23,380 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

2.587 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

44.8 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

44.1 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

2.6 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

1.9 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

446 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$7.438 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$55.78 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

soybeans and derivatives, petroleum and gas, vehicles, corn, wheat


Exports - partners:

Brazil 19.1%, China 9.4%, US 7.9%, Chile 7.6% (2007)


Imports:

$42.53 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery, motor vehicles, petroleum and natural gas, organic
chemicals, plastics


Imports - partners:

Brazil 34.6%, US 12.6%, China 12%, Germany 5% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$99.66 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$46.12 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$135.8 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$65.31 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$26.26 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$79.73 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

Argentine peso (ARS)


Currency code:

ARS


Exchange rates:

Argentine pesos (ARS) per US dollar - 3.1105 (2007), 3.0543 (2006),
2.9037 (2005), 2.9233 (2004), 2.9006 (2003)


Communications
Argentina



Telephones - main lines in use:

9.5 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

40.402 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: by opening the telecommunications market to
competition and foreign investment with the "Telecommunications
Liberalization Plan of 1998," Argentina encouraged the growth of
modern telecommunications technology; fiber-optic cable trunk lines
are being installed between all major cities; major networks are
entirely digital and the availability of telephone service is
improving; fixed-line telephone density is gradually increasing
reaching nearly 25 lines per 100 people in 2007; mobile telephone
subscribership has been increasing rapidly and has reached a level
of 100 telephones per 100 persons
domestic: microwave radio relay, fiber-optic cable, and a domestic
satellite system with 40 earth stations serve the trunk network;
more than 110,000 pay telephones are installed and mobile telephone
use is rapidly expanding; broadband services are gaining ground
international: country code - 54; landing point for the Atlantis-2,
UNISUR, and South America-1 optical submarine cable systems that
provide links to Europe, Africa, South and Central America, and US;
satellite earth stations - 112; 2 international gateways near Buenos
Aires (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 260 (includes 10 inactive stations), FM (probably more than
1,000, mostly unlicensed), shortwave 6 (1998)


Radios:

24.3 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

42 (plus 444 repeaters) (1997)


Televisions:

7.95 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.ar


Internet hosts:

3.813 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

33 (2000)


Internet users:

9.309 million (2007)


Transportation
Argentina



Airports:

1,272 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 154
over 3,047 m: 4
2,438 to 3,047 m: 26
1,524 to 2,437 m: 65
914 to 1,523 m: 50
under 914 m: 9 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 1,118
over 3,047 m: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 44
914 to 1,523 m: 515
under 914 m: 556 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 28,657 km; liquid petroleum gas 41 km; oil 5,607 km; refined
products 3,052 km; unknown (oil/water) 13 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 31,902 km
broad gauge: 20,858 km 1.676-m gauge (141 km electrified)
standard gauge: 2,885 km 1.435-m gauge (26 km electrified)
narrow gauge: 7,922 km 1.000-m gauge; 237 km 0.750-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 231,374 km
paved: 69,412 km (includes 734 km of expressways)
unpaved: 161,962 km (2004)


Waterways:

11,000 km (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 46
by type: bulk carrier 3, cargo 9, chemical tanker 2, container 1,
passenger 1, passenger/cargo 3, petroleum tanker 24, refrigerated
cargo 2, roll on/roll off 1
foreign-owned: 14 (Brazil 1, Chile 7, Spain 2, UK 4)
registered in other countries: 19 (Liberia 3, Panama 8, Paraguay 5,
Uruguay 3) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Arroyo Seco, Bahia Blanca, Buenos Aires, La Plata, Punta Colorada,
Rosario, San Lorenzo-San Martin


Military
Argentina



Military branches:

Argentine Army (Ejercito Argentino), Navy of the Argentine Republic
(Armada Republica; includes naval aviation and naval infantry),
Argentine Air Force (Fuerza Aerea Argentina, FAA) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18-24 years of age for voluntary military service (18-21 requires
parental permission); no conscription (2001)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 10,029,488
females age 16-49: 9,889,002 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 8,352,147
females age 16-49: 8,366,781 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 348,310
female: 332,944 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.3% of GDP (2005 est.)


Military - note:

the Argentine military is a well-organized force constrained by the
country's prolonged economic hardship; the country has recently
experienced a strong recovery, and the military is implementing a
modernization plan aimed at making the ground forces lighter and
more responsive (2008)


Transnational Issues
Argentina



Disputes - international:

Argentina continues to assert its claims to the UK-administered
Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas), South Georgia, and the South
Sandwich Islands in its constitution, forcibly occupying the
Falklands in 1982, but in 1995 agreed no longer to seek settlement
by force; territorial claim in Antarctica partially overlaps UK and
Chilean claims; unruly region at convergence of
Argentina-Brazil-Paraguay borders is locus of money laundering,
smuggling, arms and illegal narcotics trafficking, and fundraising
for extremist organizations; uncontested dispute between Brazil and
Uruguay over Braziliera/Brasiliera Island in the Quarai/Cuareim
River leaves the tripoint with Argentina in question; in 2006,
Argentina went to the ICJ to protest, on environmental grounds, the
construction of two pulp mills in Uruguay on the Uruguay River,
which forms the boundary; both parties presented their pleadings in
2007 with Argentina's reply in January and Uruguay's rejoinder in
July 2008; the joint boundary commission, established by Chile and
Argentina in 2001 has yet to map and demarcate the delimited
boundary in the inhospitable Andean Southern Ice Field (Campo de
Hielo Sur)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Argentina is a source, transit, and destination
country for men, women, and children trafficked for the purposes of
commercial sexual exploitation and forced labor; most victims are
trafficked within the country, from rural to urban areas; child sex
tourism is a problem; foreign women and children, primarily from
Paraguay, Brazil, and the Dominican Republic, are trafficked to
Argentina for commercial sexual exploitation; Argentine women and
girls are also trafficked to neighboring countries, Mexico, and
Western Europe for sexual exploitation; a significant number of
Bolivians, Peruvians, and Paraguayans are trafficked into the
country for forced labor in sweatshops, agriculture, and as domestic
servants
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - despite some progress, Argentina
remains on the Tier 2 Watch List for the third consecutive year for
its failure to show evidence of increasing efforts to combat human
trafficking, particularly in terms of providing adequate assistance
to victims and curbing official complicity with trafficking
activity, especially on the provincial and local levels; the
Argentine Congress has demonstrated progress by enacting much-needed
and first-ever federal anti-trafficking legislation (2008)


Illicit drugs:

a transshipment country for cocaine headed for Europe; some
money-laundering activity, especially in the Tri-Border Area; law
enforcement corruption; a source for precursor chemicals; increasing
domestic consumption of drugs in urban centers, especially cocaine
base and synthetic drugs



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Armenia

Introduction
Armenia



Background:

Armenia prides itself on being the first nation to formally adopt
Christianity (early 4th century). Despite periods of autonomy, over
the centuries Armenia came under the sway of various empires
including the Roman, Byzantine, Arab, Persian, and Ottoman. During
World War I in the western portion of Armenia, Ottoman Turkey
instituted a policy of forced resettlement coupled with other harsh
practices that resulted in an estimated 1 million Armenian deaths.
The eastern area of Armenia was ceded by the Ottomans to Russia in
1828; this portion declared its independence in 1918, but was
conquered by the Soviet Red Army in 1920. Armenian leaders remain
preoccupied by the long conflict with Muslim Azerbaijan over
Nagorno-Karabakh, a primarily Armenian-populated region, assigned to
Soviet Azerbaijan in the 1920s by Moscow. Armenia and Azerbaijan
began fighting over the area in 1988; the struggle escalated after
both countries attained independence from the Soviet Union in 1991.
By May 1994, when a cease-fire took hold, Armenian forces held not
only Nagorno-Karabakh but also a significant portion of Azerbaijan
proper. The economies of both sides have been hurt by their
inability to make substantial progress toward a peaceful resolution.
Turkey imposed an economic blockade on Armenia and closed the common
border because of the Armenian separatists' control of
Nagorno-Karabakh and surrounding areas.


Geography
Armenia



Location:

Southwestern Asia, east of Turkey


Geographic coordinates:

40 00 N, 45 00 E


Map references:

Asia


Area:

total: 29,743 sq km
land: 28,454 sq km
water: 1,289 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Maryland


Land boundaries:

total: 1,254 km
border countries: Azerbaijan-proper 566 km, Azerbaijan-Naxcivan
exclave 221 km, Georgia 164 km, Iran 35 km, Turkey 268 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

highland continental, hot summers, cold winters


Terrain:

Armenian Highland with mountains; little forest land; fast flowing
rivers; good soil in Aras River valley


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Debed River 400 m
highest point: Aragats Lerrnagagat' 4,090 m


Natural resources:

small deposits of gold, copper, molybdenum, zinc, bauxite


Land use:

arable land: 16.78%
permanent crops: 2.01%
other: 81.21% (2005)


Irrigated land:

2,860 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

10.5 cu km (1997)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 2.95 cu km/yr (30%/4%/66%)
per capita: 977 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

occasionally severe earthquakes; droughts


Environment - current issues:

soil pollution from toxic chemicals such as DDT; the energy crisis
of the 1990s led to deforestation when citizens scavenged for
firewood; pollution of Hrazdan (Razdan) and Aras Rivers; the
draining of Sevana Lich (Lake Sevan), a result of its use as a
source for hydropower, threatens drinking water supplies; restart of
Metsamor nuclear power plant in spite of its location in a
seismically active zone


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants


Geography - note:

landlocked in the Lesser Caucasus Mountains; Sevana Lich (Lake
Sevan) is the largest lake in this mountain range


People
Armenia



Population:

2,968,586 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 18.7% (male 296,401/female 259,594)
15-64 years: 70.3% (male 975,438/female 1,111,989)
65 years and over: 11% (male 128,398/female 196,766) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 31.1 years
male: 28.4 years
female: 34 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

-0.077% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

12.53 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

8.34 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-4.95 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.15 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.14 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.88 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.65 male(s)/female
total population: 0.89 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 20.94 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 25.82 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 15.33 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 72.4 years
male: 68.79 years
female: 76.55 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.35 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.1% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

2,600 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 200 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Armenian(s)
adjective: Armenian


Ethnic groups:

Armenian 97.9%, Yezidi (Kurd) 1.3%, Russian 0.5%, other 0.3% (2001
census)


Religions:

Armenian Apostolic 94.7%, other Christian 4%, Yezidi (monotheist
with elements of nature worship) 1.3%


Languages:

Armenian 97.7%, Yezidi 1%, Russian 0.9%, other 0.4% (2001 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99.4%
male: 99.7%
female: 99.2% (2001 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 11 years
male: 11 years
female: 12 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

3.2% of GDP (2001)


Government
Armenia



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Armenia
conventional short form: Armenia
local long form: Hayastani Hanrapetut'yun
local short form: Hayastan
former: Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic, Armenian Republic


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Yerevan
geographic coordinates: 40 10 N, 44 30 E
time difference: UTC+4 (9 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

11 provinces (marzer, singular - marz); Aragatsotn, Ararat, Armavir,
Geghark'unik', Kotayk', Lorri, Shirak, Syunik', Tavush, Vayots'
Dzor, Yerevan


Independence:

21 September 1991 (from Soviet Union)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 21 September (1991)


Constitution:

adopted by nationwide referendum 5 July 1995; amendments adopted
through a nationwide referendum 27 November 2005


Legal system:

based on civil law system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Serzh SARGSIAN (since 9 April 2008)
head of government: Prime Minister Tigran SARGSIAN (since 9 April
2008)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 19 February 2008
(next to be held February 2013); prime minister appointed by the
president based on majority or plurality support in parliament; the
prime minister and Council of Ministers must resign if the National
Assembly refuses to accept their program
election results: Serzh SARGSIAN elected president; percent of vote
- Serzh SARGSIAN 52.9%, Levon TER-PETROSSIAN 21.5%, Artur
BAGHDASARIAN 16.7%


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly (Parliament) or Azgayin Zhoghov (131
seats; members elected by popular vote, 90 members elected by party
list and 41 by direct vote; to serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 12 May 2007 (next to be held in the spring of
2012)
election results: percent of vote by party - HHK 33.9%, Prosperous
Armenia 15.1%, ARF (Dashnak) 13.2%, Rule of Law 7.1%, Heritage Party
6%, other 24.7%; seats by party - HHK 64, Prosperous Armenia 18, ARF
(Dashnak) 16, Rule of Law 9, Heritage Party 7, independent 17


Judicial branch:

Constitutional Court; Court of Cassation (Appeals Court)


Political parties and leaders:

Armenian National Movement or ANM [Ararat ZURABYAN]; Armenian
People's Party [Tigran KARAPETYAN]; Armenian Ramkavar Azadagan Party
Alliance or HRAK (includes former Dashink Party, National Revival
Party, and Ramkavar Liberal Party); Armenian Revolutionary
Federation ("Dashnak" Party) or ARF [Hrant MARKARYAN]; Heritage
Party [Raffi HOVHANNISYAN]; National Democratic Party [Shavarsh
KOCHARIAN]; National Democratic Union or NDU [Vazgen MANUKIAN];
National Unity Party [Artashes GEGHAMYAN]; People's Party of Armenia
[Stepan DEMIRCHYAN]; Prosperous Armenia [Gagik TSAROUKYAN]; Republic
Party [Aram SARKISYAN]; Republican Party of Armenia or HHK [Serzh
SARGSIAN]; Rule of Law Party (Orinats Yerkir) [Artur BAGHDASARIAN];
Union of Constitutional Rights [Hrant KHACHATURYAN]; United Labor
Party [Gurgen ARSENYAN]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Aylentrank (Impeachment) [Nikol PASHINYAN]; Yerkrapah Union [Manvel
GRIGORIAN]


International organization participation:

ACCT (observer), ADB, BSEC, CE, CIS, CSTO, EAEC (observer), EAPC,
EBRD, FAO, GCTU, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU,
MIGA, NAM (observer), OAS (observer), OIF (associate member), OPCW,
OSCE, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO,
WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Tatoul MARKARIAN
chancery: 2225 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 319-1976
FAX: [1] (202) 319-2982
consulate(s) general: Los Angeles


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Marie L. YOVANOVITCH
embassy: 1 American Ave., Yerevan 0082
mailing address: American Embassy Yerevan, US Department of State,
7020 Yerevan Place, Washington, DC 20521-7020
telephone: [374](10) 464-700
FAX: [374](10) 464-742


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of red (top), blue, and orange


Economy
Armenia



Economy - overview:

Since the breakup of the Soviet Union in 1991, Armenia has made
progress in implementing many economic reforms including
privatization, price reforms, and prudent fiscal policies. The
conflict with Azerbaijan over the ethnic Armenian-dominated region
of Nagorno-Karabakh contributed to a severe economic decline in the
early 1990s. By 1994, however, the Armenian Government launched an
ambitious IMF-sponsored economic liberalization program that
resulted in positive growth rates. Economic growth has averaged over
13% in recent years. Armenia has managed to reduce poverty, slash
inflation, stabilize its currency, and privatize most small- and
medium-sized enterprises. Under the old Soviet central planning
system, Armenia developed a modern industrial sector, supplying
machine tools, textiles, and other manufactured goods to sister
republics, in exchange for raw materials and energy. Armenia has
since switched to small-scale agriculture and away from the large
agroindustrial complexes of the Soviet era. Nuclear power plants
built at Metsamor in the 1970s were closed following the 1988 Spitak
Earthquake, though they sustained no damage. One of the two reactors
was re-opened in 1995, but the Armenian government is under
international pressure to close it due to concerns that the Soviet
era design lacks important safeguards. Metsamor provides 40 percent
of the country's electricity - hydropower accounts for about
one-fourth. Economic ties with Russia remain close, especially in
the energy sector. The electricity distribution system was
privatized in 2002 and bought by Russia's RAO-UES in 2005.
Construction of a pipeline to deliver natural gas from Iran to
Armenia is halfway completed and is scheduled to be commissioned by
January 2009. Armenia has some mineral deposits (copper, gold,
bauxite). Pig iron, unwrought copper, and other nonferrous metals
are Armenia's highest valued exports. Armenia's severe trade
imbalance has been offset somewhat by international aid, remittances
from Armenians working abroad, and foreign direct investment.
Armenia joined the WTO in January 2003. The government made some
improvements in tax and customs administration in recent years, but
anti-corruption measures will be more difficult to implement.
Despite strong economic growth, Armenia's unemployment rate remains
high. Armenia will need to pursue additional economic reforms in
order to improve its economic competitiveness and to build on recent
improvements in poverty and unemployment, especially given its
economic isolation from two of its nearest neighbors, Turkey and
Azerbaijan.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$17.17 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$7.974 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

13.7% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$5,800 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 17.2%
industry: 36.4%
services: 46.4% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

1.2 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 46.2%
industry: 15.6%
services: 38.2% (2006 est.)


Unemployment rate:

7.1% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

26.5% (2006 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 1.6%
highest 10%: 41.3% (2004)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

37 (2006)


Investment (gross fixed):

33.6% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $1.666 billion
expenditures: $1.735 billion; including capital expenditures of $NA
(2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

4.4% (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

17.52% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$1.507 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$765.2 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$1.256 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

fruit (especially grapes), vegetables; livestock


Industries:

diamond-processing, metal-cutting machine tools, forging-pressing
machines, electric motors, tires, knitted wear, hosiery, shoes, silk
fabric, chemicals, trucks, instruments, microelectronics, jewelry
manufacturing, software development, food processing, brandy


Industrial production growth rate:

3.2% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

5.544 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

4.539 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

322.6 million kWh; note - exports an unknown quantity to Georgia;
includes exports to Nagorno-Karabakh region in Azerbaijan (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

400.6 million kWh; note - imports an unknown quantity from Iran
(2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 42.3%
hydro: 27%
nuclear: 30.7%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

41,090 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

44,670 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

2.05 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

2.05 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006)


Current account balance:

-$571.4 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$1.2 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

pig iron, unwrought copper, nonferrous metals, diamonds, mineral
products, foodstuffs, energy


Exports - partners:

Russia 17.5%, Germany 14.7%, Netherlands 13.5%, Belgium 8.7%,
Georgia 7.6%, US 6.6%, Switzerland 4.3%, Bulgaria 4.1%, Ukraine 4%
(2007)


Imports:

$2.807 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

natural gas, petroleum, tobacco products, foodstuffs, diamonds


Imports - partners:

Russia 15.1%, Ukraine 7.7%, Kazakhstan 7.4%, Germany 6.8%, China 6%,
France 4.6%, US 4.5%, Iraq 4.3% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

ODA, $180 million (2007)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$1.657 billion (December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$1.372 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$42.8 million (2005)


Currency (code):

dram (AMD)


Currency code:

AMD


Exchange rates:

drams (AMD) per US dollar - 344.06 (2007), 414.69 (2006), 457.69
(2005), 533.45 (2004), 578.76 (2003)


Communications
Armenia



Telephones - main lines in use:

603,900 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

1,185,400 (2006)


Telephone system:

general assessment: telecommunications investments have made major
inroads in modernizing and upgrading the outdated telecommunications
network inherited from the Soviet era; now 100% privately owned and
undergoing modernization and expansion; mobile-cellular services
monopoly terminated in late 2004 and a second provider began
operations in mid-2005
domestic: reliable modern landline and mobile-cellular services are
available across Yerevan in major cities and towns; significant but
ever-shrinking gaps remain in mobile-cellular coverage in rural areas
international: country code - 374; Yerevan is connected to the
Trans-Asia-Europe fiber-optic cable through Iran; additional
international service is available by microwave radio relay and
landline connections to the other countries of the Commonwealth of
Independent States, through the Moscow international switch, and by
satellite to the rest of the world; satellite earth stations - 3
(2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 9, FM 16, shortwave 1 (2006)


Radios:

850,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

48 (private television stations alongside 2 public networks; major
Russian channels widely available) (2006)


Televisions:

825,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.am


Internet hosts:

26,081 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

9 (2001)


Internet users:

172,800 (2006)


Transportation
Armenia



Airports:

12 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 10
over 3,047 m: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
914 to 1,523 m: 2 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 2,036 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 839 km
broad gauge: 839 km 1.520-m gauge (828 km electrified)
note: some lines are out of service (2006)


Roadways:

total: 7,700 km
paved: 7,700 km (includes 1,561 km of expressways) (2006)


Military
Armenia



Military branches:

Armed Forces: Ground Forces, Nagorno-Karabakh Self Defense Force
(NKSDF), Air Force and Air Defense (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18-27 years of age for voluntary or compulsory military service;
2-year conscript service obligation (2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 809,576
females age 16-49: 870,864 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 637,776
females age 16-49: 729,846 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 30,548
female: 29,170 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

6.5% of GDP (FY01)


Transnational Issues
Armenia



Disputes - international:

Armenia supports ethnic Armenian secessionists in Nagorno-Karabakh
and since the early 1990s, has militarily occupied 16% of Azerbaijan
- Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE)
continues to mediate dispute; over 800,000 mostly ethnic
Azerbaijanis were driven from the occupied lands and Armenia; about
230,000 ethnic Armenians were driven from their homes in Azerbaijan
into Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh; Azerbaijan seeks transit route
through Armenia to connect to Naxcivan exclave; border with Turkey
remains closed over Nagorno-Karabakh dispute; ethnic Armenian groups
in Javakheti region of Georgia seek greater autonomy; Armenians
continue to emigrate, primarily to Russia, seeking employment


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 113,295 (Azerbaijan)
IDPs: 8,400 (conflict with Azerbaijan over Nagorno-Karabakh,
majority have returned home since 1994 ceasefire) (2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Armenia is primarily a source country for women
and girls trafficked to the UAE and Turkey for the purpose of
commercial sexual exploitation; Armenian men and women are
trafficked to Turkey and Russia for the purpose of forced labor
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Armenia is placed on the Tier 2
Watch List for a fourth consecutive year; its efforts to increase
compliance with the minimum standards were assessed based on its
commitments to undertake future actions, particularly in the areas
of improving victim protection and assistance; while the government
elevated anti-trafficking responsibilities to the ministerial level,
adopted a new National Action Plan, and drafted a National Referral
Mechanism, it has yet to show tangible progress in identifying and
protecting victims or in tackling trafficking complicity of
government officials; the Armenian Government made some notable
improvements in its anti-trafficking law enforcement efforts, but it
failed to demonstrate evidence of investigations, prosecutions,
convictions, and sentences of officials complicit in trafficking
(2008)


Illicit drugs:

illicit cultivation of small amount of cannabis for domestic
consumption; minor transit point for illicit drugs - mostly opium
and hashish - moving from Southwest Asia to Russia and to a lesser
extent the rest of Europe



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Aruba

Introduction
Aruba



Background:

Discovered and claimed for Spain in 1499, Aruba was acquired by the
Dutch in 1636. The island's economy has been dominated by three main
industries. A 19th century gold rush was followed by prosperity
brought on by the opening in 1924 of an oil refinery. The last
decades of the 20th century saw a boom in the tourism industry.
Aruba seceded from the Netherlands Antilles in 1986 and became a
separate, autonomous member of the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
Movement toward full independence was halted at Aruba's request in
1990.


Geography
Aruba



Location:

Caribbean, island in the Caribbean Sea, north of Venezuela


Geographic coordinates:

12 30 N, 69 58 W


Map references:

Central America and the Caribbean


Area:

total: 193 sq km
land: 193 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

68.5 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm


Climate:

tropical marine; little seasonal temperature variation


Terrain:

flat with a few hills; scant vegetation


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
highest point: Mount Jamanota 188 m


Natural resources:

NEGL; white sandy beaches


Land use:

arable land: 10.53%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 89.47% (2005)


Irrigated land:

0.01 sq km (1998 est.)


Natural hazards:

hurricanes; lies outside the Caribbean hurricane belt and is rarely
threatened


Environment - current issues:

NA


Geography - note:

a flat, riverless island renowned for its white sand beaches; its
tropical climate is moderated by constant trade winds from the
Atlantic Ocean; the temperature is almost constant at about 27
degrees Celsius (81 degrees Fahrenheit)


People
Aruba



Population:

101,541
note: estimate based on a revision of the base population,
fertility, and mortality numbers, as well as a revision of 1985-1999
migration estimates from outmigration to inmigration, which is
assumed to continue into the future; the new results are consistent
with the 2000 census (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 19.4% (male 9,933/female 9,747)
15-64 years: 70.3% (male 34,123/female 37,228)
65 years and over: 10.4% (male 4,189/female 6,321) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 37.6 years
male: 35.8 years
female: 39.3 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.501% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

12.81 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

7.65 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

9.85 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.02 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.92 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.66 male(s)/female
total population: 0.9 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 14.26 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 18.92 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 9.51 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 75.06 years
male: 72.03 years
female: 78.14 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.85 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Aruban(s)
adjective: Aruban; Dutch


Ethnic groups:

mixed white/Caribbean Amerindian 80%, other 20%


Religions:

Roman Catholic 80.8%, Protestant 9%, other (includes Hindu, Muslim,
Confucian, Jewish) 5.6%, none or unspecified 4.6%


Languages:

Papiamento (a Spanish-Portuguese-Dutch-English dialect) 66.3%,
Spanish 12.6%, English (widely spoken) 7.7%, Dutch (official) 5.8%,
other 2.2%, unspecified or unknown 5.3% (2000 census)


Literacy:

definition: NA
total population: 97.3%
male: 97.5%
female: 97.1% (2000 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 14 years
male: 13 years
female: 14 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

4.8% of GDP (2005)


Government
Aruba



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Aruba


Dependency status:

member country of the Kingdom of the Netherlands; full autonomy in
internal affairs obtained in 1986 upon separation from the
Netherlands Antilles; Dutch Government responsible for defense and
foreign affairs


Government type:

parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Oranjestad
geographic coordinates: 12 31 N, 70 02 W
time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

none (part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands)


Independence:

none (part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands)


National holiday:

Flag Day, 18 March (1976)


Constitution:

1 January 1986


Legal system:

based on Dutch civil law system, with some English common law
influence


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen BEATRIX of the Netherlands (since 30 April
1980); represented by Governor General Fredis REFUNJOL (since 11 May
2004)
head of government: Prime Minister Nelson O. ODUBER (since 30
October 2001)
cabinet: Council of Ministers elected by the Staten
elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor general appointed for
a six-year term by the monarch; prime minister and deputy prime
minister elected by the Staten for four-year terms; election last
held in 2005 (next to be held by 2009)
election results: Nelson O. ODUBER elected prime minister; percent
of legislative vote - NA


Legislative branch:

unicameral Legislature or Staten (21 seats; members elected by
direct popular vote to serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 23 September 2005 (next to be held in 2009)
election results: percent of vote by party - MEP 43%, AVP 32%, MPA
7%, RED 7%, PDR 6%, OLA 4%, PPA 2%; seats by party - MEP 11, AVP 8,
MPA 1, RED 1


Judicial branch:

Common Court of Justice of Aruba (judges are appointed by the
monarch)


Political parties and leaders:

Aliansa/Aruban Social Movement or MSA [Robert WEVER]; Aruban Liberal
Organization or OLA [Glenbert CROES]; Aruban Patriotic Movement or
MPA [Monica ARENDS-KOCK]; Aruban Patriotic Party or PPA [Benny
NISBET]; Aruban People's Party or AVP [Mike EMAN]; People's
Electoral Movement Party or MEP [Nelson O. ODUBER]; Real Democracy
or PDR [Andin BIKKER]; RED [Rudy LAMPE]; Workers Political Platform
or PTT [Gregorio WOLFF]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

other: environmental groups


International organization participation:

Caricom (observer), ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC, ITUC, UNESCO
(associate), UNWTO (associate), UPU, WCL, WFTU, WMO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (represented by the Kingdom of the Netherlands); note - Mr.
Henry BAARH, Minister Plenipotentiary for Aruba at the Embassy of
the Kingdom of the Netherlands


Diplomatic representation from the US:

the US does not have an embassy in Aruba; the Consul General to
Netherlands Antilles is accredited to Aruba


Flag description:

blue, with two narrow, horizontal, yellow stripes across the lower
portion and a red, four-pointed star outlined in white in the upper
hoist-side corner


Economy
Aruba



Economy - overview:

Tourism is the mainstay of the small, open Aruban economy, with
offshore banking and oil refining and storage also important. The
rapid growth of the tourism sector over the last decade has resulted
in a substantial expansion of other activities. Over 1.5 million
tourists per year visit Aruba, with 75% of those from the US.
Construction continues to boom, with hotel capacity five times the
1985 level. In addition, the country's oil refinery reopened in
1993, providing a major source of employment, foreign exchange
earnings, and growth. Tourist arrivals have rebounded strongly
following a dip after the 11 September 2001 attacks. The island
experiences only a brief low season, and hotel occupancy in 2004
averaged 80%, compared to 68% throughout the rest of the Caribbean.
The government has made cutting the budget and trade deficits a high
priority.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$2.258 billion (2005 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$2.258 billion (2005 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

2.4% (2005 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$21,800 (2004 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 0.4%
industry: 33.3%
services: 66.3% (2002 est.)


Labor force:

41,500 (2004 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: NA%
industry: NA%
services: NA%
note: most employment is in wholesale and retail trade and repair,
followed by hotels and restaurants; oil refining


Unemployment rate:

6.9% (2005 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $507.9 million
expenditures: $577.9 million (2005 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

46.3% of GDP (2005)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

3.4% (2005)


Central bank discount rate:

5% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

11.01% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$640.9 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$792.9 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$1.348 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

aloes; livestock; fish


Industries:

tourism, transshipment facilities, oil refining


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

800 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

744 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

2,356 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

7,102 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

233,300 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

238,200 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006)


Exports:

$124 million f.o.b.; note - includes oil reexports (2006)


Exports - commodities:

live animals and animal products, art and collectibles, machinery
and electrical equipment, transport equipment


Exports - partners:

Panama 29.7%, Colombia 17%, Netherlands Antilles 13.2%, US 11.3%,
Venezuela 10.9%, Netherlands 9.2% (2007)


Imports:

$1.054 billion f.o.b. (2006)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and electrical equipment, crude oil for refining and
reexport, chemicals; foodstuffs


Imports - partners:

US 54.6%, Netherlands 12%, UK 4.7% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$11.3 million (2004)


Debt - external:

$478.6 million (2005 est.)


Currency (code):

Aruban guilder/florin (AWG)


Currency code:

AWG


Exchange rates:

Aruban guilders/florins (AWG) per US dollar - NA (2007), 1.79
(2006), 1.79 (2005), 1.79 (2004), 1.79 (2003)


Communications
Aruba



Telephones - main lines in use:

38,700 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

105,700 (2006)


Telephone system:

general assessment: modern fully automatic telecommunications system
domestic: increased competition through privatization; 3 wireless
service providers are now licensed
international: country code - 297; landing site for the PAN-AM
submarine telecommunications cable system that extends from the US
Virgin Islands through Aruba to Venezuela, Colombia, Panama, and the
west coast of South America; extensive interisland microwave radio
relay links (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 2, FM 16, shortwave 0 (2004)


Radios:

50,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (1997)


Televisions:

20,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.aw


Internet hosts:

17,661 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

NA


Internet users:

24,000 (2007)


Transportation
Aruba



Airports:

1 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1 (2007)


Ports and terminals:

Barcadera, Oranjestad, Sint Nicolaas


Military
Aruba



Military branches:

no regular indigenous military forces; the Netherlands maintains a
detachment of marines, a frigate, and an amphibious combat
detachment in the neighboring Netherlands Antilles (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 24,585
females age 16-49: 25,742 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 20,173
females age 16-49: 21,062 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 705
female: 719 (2008 est.)


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of the Kingdom of the Netherlands


Transnational Issues
Aruba



Disputes - international:

none


Illicit drugs:

transit point for US- and Europe-bound narcotics with some
accompanying money-laundering activity; relatively high percentage
of population consumes cocaine



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Ashmore and Cartier Islands

Introduction
Ashmore and Cartier Islands



Background:

These uninhabited islands came under Australian authority in 1931;
formal administration began two years later. Ashmore Reef supports a
rich and diverse avian and marine habitat; in 1983, it became a
National Nature Reserve. Cartier Island, a former bombing range,
became a marine reserve in 2000.


Geography
Ashmore and Cartier Islands



Location:

Southeastern Asia, islands in the Indian Ocean, midway between
northwestern Australia and Timor island


Geographic coordinates:

12 14 S, 123 05 E


Map references:

Southeast Asia


Area:

total: 5 sq km
land: 5 sq km
water: 0 sq km
note: includes Ashmore Reef (West, Middle, and East Islets) and
Cartier Island


Area - comparative:

about eight times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

74.1 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 12 nm
exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation


Climate:

tropical


Terrain:

low with sand and coral


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
highest point: unnamed location 3 m


Natural resources:

fish


Land use:

arable land: 0%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 100% (all grass and sand) (2005)


Irrigated land:

0 sq km


Natural hazards:

surrounded by shoals and reefs that can pose maritime hazards


Environment - current issues:

illegal killing of protected wildlife by traditional Indonesian
fisherman, as well as fishing by non-traditional Indonesian vessels,
are ongoing problems


Geography - note:

Ashmore Reef National Nature Reserve established in August 1983;
Cartier Island Marine Reserve established in 2000


People
Ashmore and Cartier Islands



Population:

no indigenous inhabitants
note: Indonesian fishermen are allowed access to the lagoon and
fresh water at Ashmore Reef's West Island; access to East and Middle
Islands is by permit only


Government
Ashmore and Cartier Islands



Country name:

conventional long form: Territory of Ashmore and Cartier Islands
conventional short form: Ashmore and Cartier Islands


Dependency status:

territory of Australia; administered by the Australian
Attorney-General's Department


Legal system:

the laws of the Commonwealth of Australia and the laws of the
Northern Territory of Australia, where applicable, apply


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (territory of Australia)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (territory of Australia)


Flag description:

the flag of Australia is used


Economy
Ashmore and Cartier Islands



Economy - overview:

no economic activity



Transportation
Ashmore and Cartier Islands



Ports and terminals:

none; offshore anchorage only


Military
Ashmore and Cartier Islands



Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of Australia; periodic visits by the
Royal Australian Navy and Royal Australian Air Force


Transnational Issues
Ashmore and Cartier Islands



Disputes - international:

as the closest Australian territory to Indonesia, these islands
became the target of human traffickers for the landing of illegal
immigrants; in 2001, the Australian government removed these islands
from the Australian Migration Zone making illegal arrivals
ineligible for temporary visas and entry into Australia



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Atlantic Ocean

Introduction
Atlantic Ocean



Background:

The Atlantic Ocean is the second largest of the world's five oceans
(after the Pacific Ocean, but larger than the Indian Ocean, Southern
Ocean, and Arctic Ocean). The Kiel Canal (Germany), Oresund
(Denmark-Sweden), Bosporus (Turkey), Strait of Gibraltar
(Morocco-Spain), and the Saint Lawrence Seaway (Canada-US) are
important strategic access waterways. The decision by the
International Hydrographic Organization in the spring of 2000 to
delimit a fifth world ocean, the Southern Ocean, removed the portion
of the Atlantic Ocean south of 60 degrees south latitude.


Geography
Atlantic Ocean



Location:

body of water between Africa, Europe, the Southern Ocean, and the
Western Hemisphere


Geographic coordinates:

0 00 N, 25 00 W


Map references:

Political Map of the World


Area:

total: 76.762 million sq km
note: includes Baltic Sea, Black Sea, Caribbean Sea, Davis Strait,
Denmark Strait, part of the Drake Passage, Gulf of Mexico, Labrador
Sea, Mediterranean Sea, North Sea, Norwegian Sea, almost all of the
Scotia Sea, and other tributary water bodies


Area - comparative:

slightly less than 6.5 times the size of the US


Coastline:

111,866 km


Climate:

tropical cyclones (hurricanes) develop off the coast of Africa near
Cape Verde and move westward into the Caribbean Sea; hurricanes can
occur from May to December, but are most frequent from August to
November


Terrain:

surface usually covered with sea ice in Labrador Sea, Denmark
Strait, and coastal portions of the Baltic Sea from October to June;
clockwise warm-water gyre (broad, circular system of currents) in
the northern Atlantic, counterclockwise warm-water gyre in the
southern Atlantic; the ocean floor is dominated by the Mid-Atlantic
Ridge, a rugged north-south centerline for the entire Atlantic basin


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Milwaukee Deep in the Puerto Rico Trench -8,605 m
highest point: sea level 0 m


Natural resources:

oil and gas fields, fish, marine mammals (seals and whales), sand
and gravel aggregates, placer deposits, polymetallic nodules,
precious stones


Natural hazards:

icebergs common in Davis Strait, Denmark Strait, and the
northwestern Atlantic Ocean from February to August and have been
spotted as far south as Bermuda and the Madeira Islands; ships
subject to superstructure icing in extreme northern Atlantic from
October to May; persistent fog can be a maritime hazard from May to
September; hurricanes (May to December)


Environment - current issues:

endangered marine species include the manatee, seals, sea lions,
turtles, and whales; drift net fishing is hastening the decline of
fish stocks and contributing to international disputes; municipal
sludge pollution off eastern US, southern Brazil, and eastern
Argentina; oil pollution in Caribbean Sea, Gulf of Mexico, Lake
Maracaibo, Mediterranean Sea, and North Sea; industrial waste and
municipal sewage pollution in Baltic Sea, North Sea, and
Mediterranean Sea


Geography - note:

major chokepoints include the Dardanelles, Strait of Gibraltar,
access to the Panama and Suez Canals; strategic straits include the
Strait of Dover, Straits of Florida, Mona Passage, The Sound
(Oresund), and Windward Passage; the Equator divides the Atlantic
Ocean into the North Atlantic Ocean and South Atlantic Ocean




Economy
Atlantic Ocean



Economy - overview:

The Atlantic Ocean provides some of the world's most heavily
trafficked sea routes, between and within the Eastern and Western
Hemispheres. Other economic activity includes the exploitation of
natural resources, e.g., fishing, dredging of aragonite sands (The
Bahamas), and production of crude oil and natural gas (Caribbean
Sea, Gulf of Mexico, and North Sea).



Transportation
Atlantic Ocean



Ports and terminals:

Alexandria (Egypt), Algiers (Algeria), Antwerp (Belgium), Barcelona
(Spain), Buenos Aires (Argentina), Casablanca (Morocco), Colon
(Panama), Copenhagen (Denmark), Dakar (Senegal), Gdansk (Poland),
Hamburg (Germany), Helsinki (Finland), Las Palmas (Canary Islands,
Spain), Le Havre (France), Lisbon (Portugal), London (UK), Marseille
(France), Montevideo (Uruguay), Montreal (Canada), Naples (Italy),
New Orleans (US), New York (US), Oran (Algeria), Oslo (Norway),
Peiraiefs or Piraeus (Greece), Rio de Janeiro (Brazil), Rotterdam
(Netherlands), Saint Petersburg (Russia), Stockholm (Sweden)


Transportation - note:

Kiel Canal and Saint Lawrence Seaway are two important waterways;
significant domestic commercial and recreational use of Intracoastal
Waterway on central and south Atlantic seaboard and Gulf of Mexico
coast of US; the International Maritime Bureau reports the
territorial waters of littoral states and offshore Atlantic waters
as high risk for piracy and armed robbery against ships,
particularly in the Gulf of Guinea off West Africa, the east coast
of Brazil, and the Caribbean Sea; numerous commercial vessels have
been attacked and hijacked both at anchor and while underway;
hijacked vessels are often disguised and cargoes stolen; crews have
been robbed and stores or cargoes stolen



Transnational Issues
Atlantic Ocean



Disputes - international:

some maritime disputes (see littoral states)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Australia

Introduction
Australia



Background:

Aboriginal settlers arrived on the continent from Southeast Asia
about 40,000 years before the first Europeans began exploration in
the 17th century. No formal territorial claims were made until 1770,
when Capt. James COOK took possession in the name of Great Britain.
Six colonies were created in the late 18th and 19th centuries; they
federated and became the Commonwealth of Australia in 1901. The new
country took advantage of its natural resources to rapidly develop
agricultural and manufacturing industries and to make a major
contribution to the British effort in World Wars I and II. In recent
decades, Australia has transformed itself into an internationally
competitive, advanced market economy. It boasted one of the OECD's
fastest growing economies during the 1990s, a performance due in
large part to economic reforms adopted in the 1980s. Long-term
concerns include climate-change issues such as the depletion of the
ozone layer and more frequent droughts, and management and
conservation of coastal areas, especially the Great Barrier Reef.


Geography
Australia



Location:

Oceania, continent between the Indian Ocean and the South Pacific
Ocean


Geographic coordinates:

27 00 S, 133 00 E


Map references:

Oceania


Area:

total: 7,686,850 sq km
land: 7,617,930 sq km
water: 68,920 sq km
note: includes Lord Howe Island and Macquarie Island


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than the US contiguous 48 states


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

25,760 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin


Climate:

generally arid to semiarid; temperate in south and east; tropical in
north


Terrain:

mostly low plateau with deserts; fertile plain in southeast


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Lake Eyre -15 m
highest point: Mount Kosciuszko 2,229 m


Natural resources:

bauxite, coal, iron ore, copper, tin, gold, silver, uranium, nickel,
tungsten, mineral sands, lead, zinc, diamonds, natural gas, petroleum
note: Australia is the world's largest net exporter of coal
accounting for 29% of global coal exports


Land use:

arable land: 6.15% (includes about 27 million hectares of cultivated
grassland)
permanent crops: 0.04%
other: 93.81% (2005)


Irrigated land:

25,450 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

398 cu km (1995)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 24.06 cu km/yr (15%/10%/75%)
per capita: 1,193 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

cyclones along the coast; severe droughts; forest fires


Environment - current issues:

soil erosion from overgrazing, industrial development, urbanization,
and poor farming practices; soil salinity rising due to the use of
poor quality water; desertification; clearing for agricultural
purposes threatens the natural habitat of many unique animal and
plant species; the Great Barrier Reef off the northeast coast, the
largest coral reef in the world, is threatened by increased shipping
and its popularity as a tourist site; limited natural fresh water
resources


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living
Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate
Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered
Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

world's smallest continent but sixth-largest country; population
concentrated along the eastern and southeastern coasts; the
invigorating sea breeze known as the "Fremantle Doctor" affects the
city of Perth on the west coast, and is one of the most consistent
winds in the world


People
Australia



Population:

21,007,310 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 18.8% (male 2,022,151/female 1,919,002)
15-64 years: 67.9% (male 7,233,555/female 7,038,722)
65 years and over: 13.3% (male 1,266,166/female 1,527,714) (2008
est.)


Median age:

total: 37.1 years
male: 36.4 years
female: 37.9 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.221% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

12.55 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

6.68 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

6.34 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.83 male(s)/female
total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 4.82 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 5.15 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 4.47 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 81.53 years
male: 79.16 years
female: 84.02 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.78 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.1% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

14,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 200 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Australian(s)
adjective: Australian


Ethnic groups:

white 92%, Asian 7%, aboriginal and other 1%


Religions:

Catholic 26.4%, Anglican 20.5%, other Christian 20.5%, Buddhist
1.9%, Muslim 1.5%, other 1.2%, unspecified 12.7%, none 15.3% (2001
Census)


Languages:

English 79.1%, Chinese 2.1%, Italian 1.9%, other 11.1%, unspecified
5.8% (2001 Census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99%
male: 99%
female: 99% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 20 years
male: 20 years
female: 21 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

4.5% of GDP (2005)


Government
Australia



Country name:

conventional long form: Commonwealth of Australia
conventional short form: Australia


Government type:

federal parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Canberra
geographic coordinates: 35 17 S, 149 13 E
time difference: UTC+10 (15 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in October; ends last
Sunday in March
note: Australia is divided into three time zones


Administrative divisions:

6 states and 2 territories*; Australian Capital Territory*, New
South Wales, Northern Territory*, Queensland, South Australia,
Tasmania, Victoria, Western Australia


Dependent areas:

Ashmore and Cartier Islands, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling)
Islands, Coral Sea Islands, Heard Island and McDonald Islands,
Norfolk Island, Macquarie Island


Independence:

1 January 1901 (federation of UK colonies)


National holiday:

Australia Day, 26 January (1788); ANZAC Day (commemorated as the
anniversary of the landing of troops of the Australian and New
Zealand Army Corps during World War I at Gallipoli, Turkey), 25
April (1915)


Constitution:

9 July 1900, effective 1 January 1901


Legal system:

based on English common law; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction,
with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal and compulsory


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen of Australia ELIZABETH II (since 6 February
1952); represented by Governor General Quentin BRYCE (since 5
September 2008)
head of government: Prime Minister Kevin RUDD (since 3 December
2007); Deputy Prime Minister Julia GILLARD (since 3 December 2007)
cabinet: prime minister nominates, from among members of Parliament,
candidates who are subsequently sworn in by the governor general to
serve as government ministers
elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor general appointed by
the monarch on the recommendation of the prime minister; following
legislative elections, the leader of the majority party or leader of
a majority coalition is sworn in as prime minister by the governor
general


Legislative branch:

bicameral Federal Parliament consists of the Senate (76 seats; 12
members from each of the six states and 2 from each of the two
mainland territories; one-half of state members are elected every
three years by popular vote to serve six-year terms while all
territory members are elected every three years) and the House of
Representatives (150 seats; members elected by popular preferential
vote to serve terms of up to three-years; no state can have fewer
than 5 representatives)
elections: Senate - last held 24 November 2007 (next to be held no
later than 2010); House of Representatives - last held 24 November
2007 (next to be called no later than 2010)
election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - Liberal Party-National Party coalition 37, Australian Labor
Party 32, Australian Greens 5, Family First Party 1, other 1; House
of Representatives - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
Australian Labor Party 83, Liberal Party 55, National Party 10,
independents 2


Judicial branch:

High Court (the chief justice and six other justices are appointed
by the governor general)


Political parties and leaders:

Australian Democrats [Lyn ALLISON]; Australian Greens [Bob BROWN];
Australian Labor Party [Kevin RUDD]; Country Liberal Party [Jodeen
CARNEY]; Family First Party [Steve FIELDING]; Liberal Party [Malcolm
TURNBULL]; The Nationals [Warren TRUSS]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

other: business groups; environmental groups; social groups; trade
unions


International organization participation:

ADB, ANZUS, APEC, ARF, ASEAN (dialogue partner), Australia Group,
BIS, C, CP, EAS, EBRD, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA,
IEA, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU,
ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM (guest), NEA, NSG, OECD, OPCW, Paris
Club, PCA, PIF, SAARC (observer), Sparteca, SPC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNHCR, UNMIS, UNMIT, UNRWA, UNTSO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
WMO, WTO, ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Dennis J. RICHARDSON
chancery: 1601 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036
telephone: [1] (202) 797-3000
FAX: [1] (202) 797-3168
consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Chicago, Honolulu, Los Angeles, New
York, San Francisco


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Robert D. McCALLUM, Jr.
embassy: Moonah Place, Yarralumla, Canberra, Australian Capital
Territory 2600
mailing address: APO AP 96549
telephone: [61] (02) 6214-5600
FAX: [61] (02) 6214-5970
consulate(s) general: Melbourne, Perth, Sydney


Flag description:

blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and a
large seven-pointed star in the lower hoist-side quadrant known as
the Commonwealth or Federation Star, representing the federation of
the colonies of Australia in 1901; the star depicts one point for
each of the six original states and one representing all of
Australia's internal and external territories; on the fly half is a
representation of the Southern Cross constellation in white with one
small five-pointed star and four larger, seven-pointed stars


Economy
Australia



Economy - overview:

Australia has an enviable, strong economy with a per capita GDP on
par with the four dominant West European economies. Robust business
and consumer confidence and high export prices for raw materials and
agricultural products are fueling the economy, particularly in
mining states. Australia's emphasis on reforms, low inflation, a
housing market boom, and growing ties with China have been key
factors behind the economy's 16 solid years of expansion. Drought,
robust import demand, and a strong currency have pushed the trade
deficit up in recent years, while infrastructure bottlenecks and a
tight labor market are constraining growth in export volumes and
stoking inflation. Australia's budget has been in surplus since 2002
due to strong revenue growth.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$773 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$908.8 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

4.3% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$37,300 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 3%
industry: 26.4%
services: 70.6% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

10.95 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 3.6%
industry: 21.2%
services: 75.2% (2004 est.)


Unemployment rate:

4.4% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2%
highest 10%: 25.4% (1994)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

30.5 (2006)


Investment (gross fixed):

27.3% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $321.9 billion
expenditures: $315.8 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 July - 30 June


Public debt:

15.6% of GDP
note: the Commonwealth government eliminated its net debt in 2006,
but continues a gross debt issue to support the market for risk-free
securities (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.3% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

NA


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

10.02% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$298.5 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$667.2 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$1.312 trillion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

wheat, barley, sugarcane, fruits, cattle, sheep, poultry


Industries:

mining, industrial and transportation equipment, food processing,
chemicals, steel


Industrial production growth rate:

4.1% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

244.2 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

220 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 90.8%
hydro: 8.3%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0.9% (2001)


Oil - production:

600,000 bbl/day (2008 est.)


Oil - consumption:

966,200 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

337,400 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

615,000 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

1.5 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

43.62 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

29.4 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

19.91 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

5.689 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

849.5 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$56.78 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$142.1 billion (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

coal, iron ore, gold, meat, wool, alumina, wheat, machinery and
transport equipment


Exports - partners:

Japan 18.9%, China 14.2%, South Korea 8%, US 6%, NZ 5.6%, India
5.5%, UK 4.2% (2007)


Imports:

$160 billion (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and transport equipment, computers and office machines,
telecommunication equipment and parts; crude oil and petroleum
products


Imports - partners:

China 15.5%, US 12.8%, Japan 9.6%, Singapore 5.6%, Germany 5.2%, UK
4.3%, Thailand 4.2% (2007)


Economic aid - donor:

ODA, $2.123 billion (2006)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$26.91 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$826.4 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$315 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$280.6 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$804.1 billion (2005)


Currency (code):

Australian dollar (AUD)


Currency code:

AUD


Exchange rates:

Australian dollars (AUD) per US dollar - 1.2137 (2007), 1.3285
(2006), 1.3095 (2005), 1.3598 (2004), 1.5419 (2003)


Communications
Australia



Telephones - main lines in use:

9.76 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

21.26 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: excellent domestic and international service
domestic: domestic satellite system; significant use of
radiotelephone in areas of low population density; rapid growth of
mobile cellular telephones
international: country code - 61; landing point for the SEA-ME-WE-3
optical telecommunications submarine cable with links to Asia, the
Middle East, and Europe; the Southern Cross fiber optic submarine
cable provides links to New Zealand and the United States; satellite
earth stations - 19 (10 Intelsat - 4 Indian Ocean and 6 Pacific
Ocean, 2 Inmarsat - Indian and Pacific Ocean regions, 2 Globalstar,
5 other) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 262, FM 345, shortwave 1 (1998)


Radios:

25.5 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

104 (1997)


Televisions:

10.15 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.au


Internet hosts:

11.134 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

571 (2002)


Internet users:

11.24 million (2007)


Transportation
Australia



Airports:

461 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 317
over 3,047 m: 11
2,438 to 3,047 m: 12
1,524 to 2,437 m: 138
914 to 1,523 m: 143
under 914 m: 13 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 144
1,524 to 2,437 m: 19
914 to 1,523 m: 109
under 914 m: 16 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Pipelines:

condensate/gas 469 km; gas 26,719 km; liquid petroleum gas 240 km;
oil 3,720 km; oil/gas/water 110 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 38,550 km
broad gauge: 3,727 km 1.600-m gauge
standard gauge: 20,519 km 1.435-m gauge (1,877 km electrified)
narrow gauge: 14,074 km 1.067-m gauge (2,453 km electrified)
dual gauge: 230 km dual gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 812,972 km
paved: 341,448 km
unpaved: 471,524 km (2004)


Waterways:

2,000 km (mainly used for recreation on Murray and Murray-Darling
river systems) (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 50
by type: bulk carrier 12, cargo 5, chemical tanker 1, container 1,
liquefied gas 4, passenger 7, passenger/cargo 7, petroleum tanker 8,
roll on/roll off 5
foreign-owned: 24 (Canada 9, France 1, Germany 2, Japan 1,
Netherlands 2, Norway 1, Singapore 1, UK 5, US 2)
registered in other countries: 28 (Antigua and Barbuda 1, Belize 1,
Bermuda 1, Dominica 2, Fiji 1, Marshall Islands 1, NZ 1, Panama 4,
Singapore 12, Tonga 1, US 1, Vanuatu 2) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Brisbane, Dampier, Fremantle, Gladstone, Hay Point, Melbourne,
Newcastle, Port Hedland, Port Kembla, Port Walcott, Sydney


Military
Australia



Military branches:

Australian Defense Force (ADF): Australian Army, Royal Australian
Navy, Royal Australian Air Force, Special Operations Command (2006)


Military service age and obligation:

17 years of age for voluntary military service (with parental
consent); no conscription; women allowed to serve in Army combat
units in non-combat support roles (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 4,999,988
females age 16-49: 4,870,043 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 4,137,176
females age 16-49: 4,022,588 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 144,934
female: 137,511 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

2.4% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Australia



Disputes - international:

Timor-Leste and Australia agreed in 2005 to defer the disputed
portion of the boundary for fifty years and to split hydrocarbon
revenues evenly outside the Joint Petroleum Development Area covered
by the 2002 Timor Sea Treaty; dispute with Timor-Leste hampers
creation of a revised maritime boundary with Indonesia in the Timor
Sea; regional states continue to express concern over Australia's
2004 declaration of a 1,000-nautical mile-wide maritime
identification zone; Australia asserts land and maritime claims to
Antarctica; in 2004 Australia submitted its claims to Commission on
the Limits of the Continental Shelf (CLCS) to extend its continental
margins covering over 3.37 million square kilometers, expanding its
seabed roughly thirty percent more than its claimed exclusive
economic zone; since 2003, Australia has led the Regional Assistance
Mission to the Solomon Islands (RAMSI) to maintain civil and
political order and reinforce regional security


Illicit drugs:

Tasmania is one of the world's major suppliers of licit opiate
products; government maintains strict controls over areas of opium
poppy cultivation and output of poppy straw concentrate; major
consumer of cocaine and amphetamines



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Austria

Introduction
Austria



Background:

Once the center of power for the large Austro-Hungarian Empire,
Austria was reduced to a small republic after its defeat in World
War I. Following annexation by Nazi Germany in 1938 and subsequent
occupation by the victorious Allies in 1945, Austria's status
remained unclear for a decade. A State Treaty signed in 1955 ended
the occupation, recognized Austria's independence, and forbade
unification with Germany. A constitutional law that same year
declared the country's "perpetual neutrality" as a condition for
Soviet military withdrawal. The Soviet Union's collapse in 1991 and
Austria's entry into the European Union in 1995 have altered the
meaning of this neutrality. A prosperous, democratic country,
Austria entered the EU Economic and Monetary Union in 1999.


Geography
Austria



Location:

Central Europe, north of Italy and Slovenia


Geographic coordinates:

47 20 N, 13 20 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 83,870 sq km
land: 82,444 sq km
water: 1,426 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Maine


Land boundaries:

total: 2,562 km
border countries: Czech Republic 362 km, Germany 784 km, Hungary 366
km, Italy 430 km, Liechtenstein 35 km, Slovakia 91 km, Slovenia 330
km, Switzerland 164 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

temperate; continental, cloudy; cold winters with frequent rain and
some snow in lowlands and snow in mountains; moderate summers with
occasional showers


Terrain:

in the west and south mostly mountains (Alps); along the eastern and
northern margins mostly flat or gently sloping


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Neusiedler See 115 m
highest point: Grossglockner 3,798 m


Natural resources:

oil, coal, lignite, timber, iron ore, copper, zinc, antimony,
magnesite, tungsten, graphite, salt, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 16.59%
permanent crops: 0.85%
other: 82.56% (2005)


Irrigated land:

40 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

84 cu km (2005)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 3.67 cu km/yr (35%/64%/1%)
per capita: 448 cu m/yr (1999)


Natural hazards:

landslides; avalanches; earthquakes


Environment - current issues:

some forest degradation caused by air and soil pollution; soil
pollution results from the use of agricultural chemicals; air
pollution results from emissions by coal- and oil-fired power
stations and industrial plants and from trucks transiting Austria
between northern and southern Europe


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

landlocked; strategic location at the crossroads of central Europe
with many easily traversable Alpine passes and valleys; major river
is the Danube; population is concentrated on eastern lowlands
because of steep slopes, poor soils, and low temperatures elsewhere


People
Austria



Population:

8,205,533 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 14.8% (male 621,326/female 592,131)
15-64 years: 67.5% (male 2,783,531/female 2,753,389)
65 years and over: 17.7% (male 599,415/female 855,741) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 41.7 years
male: 40.7 years
female: 42.8 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.064% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

8.66 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

9.91 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

1.88 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.7 male(s)/female
total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 4.48 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 5.48 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 3.44 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 79.36 years
male: 76.46 years
female: 82.41 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.38 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.3% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

10,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 100 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Austrian(s)
adjective: Austrian


Ethnic groups:

Austrians 91.1%, former Yugoslavs 4% (includes Croatians, Slovenes,
Serbs, and Bosniaks), Turks 1.6%, German 0.9%, other or unspecified
2.4% (2001 census)


Religions:

Roman Catholic 73.6%, Protestant 4.7%, Muslim 4.2%, other 3.5%,
unspecified 2%, none 12% (2001 census)


Languages:

German (official nationwide) 88.6%, Turkish 2.3%, Serbian 2.2%,
Croatian (official in Burgenland) 1.6%, other (includes Slovene,
official in Carinthia, and Hungarian, official in Burgenland) 5.3%
(2001 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 98%
male: NA
female: NA


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 15 years
male: 15 years
female: 16 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

5.4% of GDP (2005)


Government
Austria



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Austria
conventional short form: Austria
local long form: Republik Oesterreich
local short form: Oesterreich


Government type:

federal republic


Capital:

name: Vienna
geographic coordinates: 48 12 N, 16 22 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

9 states (Bundeslaender, singular - Bundesland); Burgenland,
Kaernten (Carinthia), Niederoesterreich (Lower Austria),
Oberoesterreich (Upper Austria), Salzburg, Steiermark (Styria),
Tirol (Tyrol), Vorarlberg, Wien (Vienna)


Independence:

976 (Margravate of Austria established); 17 September 1156 (Duchy of
Austria founded); 11 August 1804 (Austrian Empire proclaimed); 12
November 1918 (republic proclaimed)


National holiday:

National Day, 26 October (1955); note - commemorates the passage of
the law on permanent neutrality


Constitution:

1920; revised 1929; reinstated 1 May 1945; note - during the period
1 May 1934-1 May 1945 there was a fascist (corporative) constitution
in place


Legal system:

civil law system with Roman law origin; judicial review of
legislative acts by the Constitutional Court; separate
administrative and civil/penal supreme courts; accepts compulsory
ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

16 years of age; universal; note - reduced from 18 years of age in
2007


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Heinz FISCHER (SPOe) (since 8 July 2004)
head of government: Chancellor Werner FAYMANN (SPOe) (since 2
December 2008); Vice Chancellor Josef PROELL (OeVP) (since 2
December 2008)
cabinet: Council of Ministers chosen by the president on the advice
of the chancellor
elections: president elected by direct popular vote for a six-year
term (eligible for a second term); presidential election last held
25 April 2004 (next to be held in April 2010); chancellor formally
chosen by the president but determined by the coalition parties
forming a parliamentary majority; vice chancellor chosen by the
president on the advice of the chancellor
election results: Heinz FISCHER elected president; percent of vote -
Heinz FISCHER 52.4%, Benita FERRERO-WALDNER 47.6%
note: government coalition - SPOe and OeVP


Legislative branch:

bicameral Federal Assembly or Bundesversammlung consists of Federal
Council or Bundesrat (62 seats; members chosen by state parliaments
with each state receiving 3 to 12 members according to its
population; members serve a five- or six-year term) and the National
Council or Nationalrat (183 seats; members elected by direct popular
vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: National Council - last held 28 September 2008 (next to
be held by September 2013)
election results: National Council - percent of vote by party - SPOe
29.3%, OeVP 26%, FPOe 17.5%, BZOe 10.7%, Greens 10.4%, other 6.1%;
seats by party - SPOe 57, OeVP 51, FPOe 34, BZOe 21, Greens 20


Judicial branch:

Supreme Judicial Court or Oberster Gerichtshof; Administrative Court
or Verwaltungsgerichtshof; Constitutional Court or
Verfassungsgerichtshof


Political parties and leaders:

Alliance for the Future of Austria or BZOe [Stefan PETZNER];
Austrian People's Party or OeVP [Wilhelm MOLTERER]; Freedom Party of
Austria or FPOe [Heinz Christian STRACHE]; Social Democratic Party
of Austria or SPOe [Werner FAYMANN]; The Greens [Alexander VAN DER
BELLEN]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Austrian Trade Union Federation or OeGB (nominally independent but
primarily Social Democratic); Federal Economic Chamber;
OeVP-oriented Association of Austrian Industrialists or IV; Roman
Catholic Church, including its chief lay organization, Catholic
Action
other: three composite leagues of the Austrian People's Party or
OeVP representing business, labor, farmers, and other nongovernment
organizations in the areas of environment and human rights


International organization participation:

ACCT (observer), ADB (nonregional members), AfDB (nonregional
members), Australia Group, BIS, BSEC (observer), CE, CEI, CERN,
EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EMU, ESA, EU, FAO, G-9, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURSO, NAM
(guest), NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OIF (observer), OPCW, OSCE,
Paris Club, PCA, PFP, Schengen Convention, SECI (observer), UN,
UNCTAD, UNDOF, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNOMIG, UNTSO, UNWTO,
UPU, WCL, WCO, WEU (observer), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Deputy Chief of Mission
Andreas Riecken
chancery: 3524 International Court NW, Washington, DC 20008-3035
telephone: [1] (202) 895-6700
FAX: [1] (202) 895-6750
consulate(s) general: Chicago, Los Angeles, New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador David F. GIRARD-DICARLO
embassy: Boltzmanngasse 16, A-1090, Vienna
mailing address: use embassy street address
telephone: [43] (1) 31339-0
FAX: [43] (1) 3100682


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and red


Economy
Austria



Economy - overview:

Austria, with its well-developed market economy and high standard of
living, is closely tied to other EU economies, especially Germany's.
The Austrian economy also benefits greatly from strong commercial
relations, especially in the banking and insurance sectors, with
central, eastern, and southeastern Europe. The economy features a
large service sector, a sound industrial sector, and a small, but
highly developed agricultural sector. Membership in the EU has drawn
an influx of foreign investors attracted by Austria's access to the
single European market and proximity to the new EU economies. The
outgoing government has successfully pursued a comprehensive
economic reform program, aimed at streamlining government and
creating a more competitive business environment, further
strengthening Austria's attractiveness as an investment location. It
has implemented effective pension reforms; however, lower taxes in
2005-06 led to a small budget deficit in 2006 and 2007. Boosted by
strong exports, growth nevertheless reached 3.3% in both 2006 and
2007, although the economy may slow in 2008 because of the strong
euro, high oil prices, and problems in international financial
markets. To meet increased competition - especially from new EU
members and Central European countries - Austria will need to
continue restructuring, emphasizing knowledge-based sectors of the
economy, and encouraging greater labor flexibility and greater labor
participation by its aging population.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$322 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$373.9 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

3.1% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$39,300 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 1.6%
industry: 30.3%
services: 68% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

3.566 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 3%
industry: 27%
services: 70% (2005 est.)


Unemployment rate:

4.4% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

5.9% (2004)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 3.3%
highest 10%: 22.5% (2004)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

26 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

20.6% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $177.5 billion
expenditures: $179.9 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

59.1% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.2% (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

6.3% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

NA
note: see entry for the European Union for money supply in the Euro
Area; the European Central Bank (ECB) controls monetary policy for
the 15 members of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU); individual
members of the EMU do not control the quantity of money and quasi
money circulating within their own borders


Stock of quasi money:

NA


Stock of domestic credit:

$599.5 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

grains, potatoes, sugar beets, wine, fruit; dairy products, cattle,
pigs, poultry; lumber


Industries:

construction, machinery, vehicles and parts, food, metals,
chemicals, lumber and wood processing, paper and paperboard,
communications equipment, tourism


Industrial production growth rate:

5.7% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

59.31 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

62.35 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

15.51 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

22.13 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 29.3%
hydro: 67.2%
nuclear: 0%
other: 3.5% (2001)


Oil - production:

24,920 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

289,400 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

46,300 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

313,500 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

50 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

1.848 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

8.436 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

2.767 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

9.658 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

16.14 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$12.03 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$162.1 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, motor vehicles and parts, paper and
paperboard, metal goods, chemicals, iron and steel, textiles,
foodstuffs


Exports - partners:

Germany 29.8%, Italy 8.8%, US 4.9%, Switzerland 4.3% (2007)


Imports:

$160.3 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, motor vehicles, chemicals, metal goods, oil
and oil products; foodstuffs


Imports - partners:

Germany 45.5%, Italy 7.1%, Switzerland 5%, Netherlands 4.3% (2007)


Economic aid - donor:

ODA, $1.498 billion (2006)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$18.22 billion (2006 est.)


Debt - external:

$752.5 billion (30 June 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$222.9 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$208.1 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$126.3 billion (2005)


Currency (code):

euro (EUR)


Currency code:

EUR


Exchange rates:

euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006), 0.8041
(2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)


Communications
Austria



Telephones - main lines in use:

3.374 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

9.768 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: highly developed and efficient
domestic: fixed-line subscribership has been in decline since the
mid-1990s with mobile-cellular subscribership eclipsing it by the
late 1990s; the fiber-optic net is very extensive; all telephone
applications and Internet services are available
international: country code - 43; satellite earth stations - 15; in
addition, there are about 600 VSATs (very small aperture terminals)
(2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 2, FM 65 (plus several hundred repeaters), shortwave 1 (2001)


Radios:

6.08 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

10 (plus more than 1,000 repeaters) (2001)


Televisions:

4.25 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.at


Internet hosts:

2.806 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

37 (2000)


Internet users:

4.277 million (2007)


Transportation
Austria



Airports:

55 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 25
over 3,047 m: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 5
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 3
under 914 m: 15 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 30
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 3
under 914 m: 26 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 2,722 km; oil 663 km; refined products 157 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 6,383 km
standard gauge: 5,924 km 1.435-m gauge (3,772 km electrified)
narrow gauge: 371 km 1.000-m gauge; 88 km 0.760-m gauge (25 km
electrified) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 107,262 km
paved: 107,262 km (includes 1,677 km of expressways) (2006)


Waterways:

358 km (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 4
by type: cargo 2, container 2
foreign-owned: 2 (Netherlands 2)
registered in other countries: 4 (Cyprus 1, Malta 1, Saint Vincent
and the Grenadines 2) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Enns, Krems, Linz, Vienna


Military
Austria



Military branches:

Land Forces (KdoLdSK), Air Forces (KdoLuSK)


Military service age and obligation:

18-35 years of age for compulsory military service; 16 years of age
for male or female voluntary service; service obligation 7 months of
training, followed by an 8-year reserve obligation (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,986,411
females age 16-49: 1,944,834 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,617,385
females age 16-49: 1,583,886 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 50,869
female: 48,246 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0.9% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Austria



Disputes - international:

while threats of international legal action never materialized in
2007, 915,220 Austrians, with the support of the newly elected
Freedom Party, signed a petition in January 2008, demanding that
Austria block the Czech Republic's accession to the EU unless Prague
closes its nuclear power plant in Temelin, bordering Austria


Illicit drugs:

transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin and South American
cocaine destined for Western Europe; increasing consumption of
European-produced synthetic drugs



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Azerbaijan

Introduction
Azerbaijan



Background:

Azerbaijan - a nation with a majority-Turkic and majority-Muslim
population - was briefly independent from 1918 to 1920; it regained
its independence after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991.
Despite a 1994 cease-fire, Azerbaijan has yet to resolve its
conflict with Armenia over the Azerbaijani Nagorno-Karabakh enclave
(largely Armenian populated). Azerbaijan has lost 16% of its
territory and must support some 600,000 internally displaced persons
as a result of the conflict. Corruption is ubiquitous, and the
government has been accused of authoritarianism. Although the
poverty rate has been reduced in recent years, the promise of
widespread wealth from development of Azerbaijan's energy sector
remains largely unfulfilled.


Geography
Azerbaijan



Location:

Southwestern Asia, bordering the Caspian Sea, between Iran and
Russia, with a small European portion north of the Caucasus range


Geographic coordinates:

40 30 N, 47 30 E


Map references:

Asia


Area:

total: 86,600 sq km
land: 86,100 sq km
water: 500 sq km
note: includes the exclave of Naxcivan Autonomous Republic and the
Nagorno-Karabakh region; the region's autonomy was abolished by
Azerbaijani Supreme Soviet on 26 November 1991


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Maine


Land boundaries:

total: 2,013 km
border countries: Armenia (with Azerbaijan-proper) 566 km, Armenia
(with Azerbaijan-Naxcivan exclave) 221 km, Georgia 322 km, Iran
(with Azerbaijan-proper) 432 km, Iran (with Azerbaijan-Naxcivan
exclave) 179 km, Russia 284 km, Turkey 9 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked); note - Azerbaijan borders the Caspian Sea (713 km)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

dry, semiarid steppe


Terrain:

large, flat Kur-Araz Ovaligi (Kura-Araks Lowland) (much of it below
sea level) with Great Caucasus Mountains to the north, Qarabag
Yaylasi (Karabakh Upland) in west; Baku lies on Abseron Yasaqligi
(Apsheron Peninsula) that juts into Caspian Sea


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Caspian Sea -28 m
highest point: Bazarduzu Dagi 4,485 m


Natural resources:

petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, nonferrous metals, bauxite


Land use:

arable land: 20.62%
permanent crops: 2.61%
other: 76.77% (2005)


Irrigated land:

14,550 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

30.3 cu km (1997)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 17.25 cu km/yr (5%/28%/68%)
per capita: 2,051 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

droughts


Environment - current issues:

local scientists consider the Abseron Yasaqligi (Apsheron Peninsula)
(including Baku and Sumqayit) and the Caspian Sea to be the
ecologically most devastated area in the world because of severe
air, soil, and water pollution; soil pollution results from oil
spills, from the use of DDT pesticide, and from toxic defoliants
used in the production of cotton


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Hazardous Wastes, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

both the main area of the country and the Naxcivan exclave are
landlocked


People
Azerbaijan



Population:

8,177,717 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 24.6% (male 1,061,318/female 947,607)
15-64 years: 68.6% (male 2,753,277/female 2,855,406)
65 years and over: 6.8% (male 208,293/female 351,816) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 27.9 years
male: 26.3 years
female: 29.7 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.723% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

17.52 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

8.32 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-1.97 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.14 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.12 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.96 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.59 male(s)/female
total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 56.43 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 62.09 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 49.98 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 66.31 years
male: 62.2 years
female: 71 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.05 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

less than 0.1% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

1,400 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 100 (2001 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Azerbaijani(s)
adjective: Azerbaijani


Ethnic groups:

Azeri 90.6%, Dagestani 2.2%, Russian 1.8%, Armenian 1.5%, other 3.9%
(1999 census)
note: almost all Armenians live in the separatist Nagorno-Karabakh
region


Religions:

Muslim 93.4%, Russian Orthodox 2.5%, Armenian Orthodox 2.3%, other
1.8% (1995 est.)
note: religious affiliation is still nominal in Azerbaijan;
percentages for actual practicing adherents are much lower


Languages:

Azerbaijani (Azeri) 90.3%, Lezgi 2.2%, Russian 1.8%, Armenian 1.5%,
other 3.3%, unspecified 1% (1999 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 98.8%
male: 99.5%
female: 98.2% (1999 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 11 years
male: 11 years
female: 11 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

2.1% of GDP (2006)


Government
Azerbaijan



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Azerbaijan
conventional short form: Azerbaijan
local long form: Azarbaycan Respublikasi
local short form: Azarbaycan
former: Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Republic


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Baku (Baki, Baky)
geographic coordinates: 40 23 N, 49 52 E
time difference: UTC+4 (9 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

59 rayons (rayonlar; rayon - singular), 11 cities (saharlar; sahar -
singular), 1 autonomous republic (muxtar respublika)
rayons: Abseron Rayonu, Agcabadi Rayonu, Agdam Rayonu, Agdas Rayonu,
Agstafa Rayonu, Agsu Rayonu, Astara Rayonu, Balakan Rayonu, Barda
Rayonu, Beylaqan Rayonu, Bilasuvar Rayonu, Cabrayil Rayonu,
Calilabad Rayonu, Daskasan Rayonu, Davaci Rayonu, Fuzuli Rayonu,
Gadabay Rayonu, Goranboy Rayonu, Goycay Rayonu, Haciqabul Rayonu,
Imisli Rayonu, Ismayilli Rayonu, Kalbacar Rayonu, Kurdamir Rayonu,
Lacin Rayonu, Lankaran Rayonu, Lerik Rayonu, Masalli Rayonu,
Neftcala Rayonu, Oguz Rayonu, Qabala Rayonu, Qax Rayonu, Qazax
Rayonu, Qobustan Rayonu, Quba Rayonu, Qubadli Rayonu, Qusar Rayonu,
Saatli Rayonu, Sabirabad Rayonu, Saki Rayonu, Salyan Rayonu, Samaxi
Rayonu, Samkir Rayonu, Samux Rayonu, Siyazan Rayonu, Susa Rayonu,
Tartar Rayonu, Tovuz Rayonu, Ucar Rayonu, Xacmaz Rayonu, Xanlar
Rayonu, Xizi Rayonu, Xocali Rayonu, Xocavand Rayonu, Yardimli
Rayonu, Yevlax Rayonu, Zangilan Rayonu, Zaqatala Rayonu, Zardab
Rayonu
cities: Ali Bayramli Sahari, Baki Sahari, Ganca Sahari, Lankaran
Sahari, Mingacevir Sahari, Naftalan Sahari, Saki Sahari, Sumqayit
Sahari, Susa Sahari, Xankandi Sahari, Yevlax Sahari
autonomous republic: Naxcivan Muxtar Respublikasi


Independence:

30 August 1991 (from Soviet Union)


National holiday:

Founding of the Democratic Republic of Azerbaijan, 28 May (1918)


Constitution:

adopted 12 November 1995


Legal system:

based on civil law system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Ilham ALIYEV (since 31 October 2003)
head of government: Prime Minister Artur RASIZADE (since 4 November
2003); First Deputy Prime Minister Yaqub EYYUBOV (since June 2006)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president and
confirmed by the National Assembly
elections: president elected by popular vote to a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 15 October 2008
(next to be held in October 2013); prime minister and first deputy
prime minister appointed by the president and confirmed by the
National Assembly
election results: Ilham ALIYEV reelected president; percent of vote
- Ilham ALIYEV 88.7%, Igbal AGHAZADE 2.9%, five other candidates
with smaller percentages
note: several political parties boycotted the election due to unfair
conditions; OSCE observers concluded that the election did not meet
international standards


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly or Milli Mejlis (125 seats; members
elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held 6 November 2005 (next to be held in November
2010)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
Yeni 58, Azadliq coalition 8, CSP 2, Motherland 2, other parties
with single seats 9, independents 42, undetermined 4


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court


Political parties and leaders:

Azadliq (Freedom) coalition (Popular Front Party, Liberal Party,
Citizens' Development Party); Azerbaijan Democratic Party or ADP
[Sardar JALALOGLU]; Azerbaijan Democratic Reforms Party (ADRP) Youth
Movement [Ramin HAJILI]; Azerbaijan Popular Front or APF, now split
in two [Ali KARIMLI, leader of "Reform" APF party; Mirmahmud
MIRALI-OGLU, leader of "Classic" APF party]; Azerbaijan Public Forum
[Eldar NAMAZOV]; Citizens' Development Party [Ali ALIYEV]; Civil
Solidarity Party or CSP [Sabir RUSTAMKHANLY]; Dalga Youth Movement
[Vafa JAFAROVA]; Green Party [Mais GULALIYEV and Tarana MAMMADOVA];
Hope (Umid) Party [Iqbal AGAZADE]; Ireli Youth Movement [Jeyhun
OSMANLI, Roya TALIBOVA, Farhad MAMMADOV, Elnara GARIBOVA, Elnur
MAMMADOV, Ziya ALIYEV]; Justice Party [Ilyas ISMAILOV]; Liberal
Party of Azerbaijan [Lala Shovkat HACIYEVA]; Magam Youth Movement
[Emin HUSEYNOV]; Motherland Party [Fazail AGAMALI]; Musavat
(Equality) [Isa GAMBAR, chairman]; Musavat Party Youth Movement
[Elnur MAMMADLI]; National Democratic Party or Grey Wolves
(Nationalist, Pan-Turkic) [Iskender HAMIDOV]; Open Society Party
[Rasul GULIYEV, in exile in the US]; Party for National Independence
of Azerbaijan or PNIA [Ayaz RUSTAMOV]; Popular Front Party Youth
Movement [Seymur KHAZIYEV]; Social Democratic Party of Azerbaijan or
SDP [Araz ALIZADE and Ayaz MUTALIBOV (in exile)]; Turkish
Nationalist Party [Vugar BAYTURAN]; United Azerbaijan Party [Karrar
ABILOV]; United Azerbaijan National Unity Party [Hajibaba AZIMOV];
United Party [Tahir KARIMLI]; Yeni (New) Azerbaijan Party [President
Ilham ALIYEV]; Yeni Azerbaijan Party Youth Movement [Ramil HASANOV];
Yox (No) Youth Movement [Ali ISMAYILOV]
note: opposition parties regularly factionalize and form new parties;


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Armenian Nagorno-Karabakh Republic (self-proclaimed); Karabakh
Liberation Organization; Sadval, Lezgin movement; Talysh
independence movement; Union of Pro-Azerbaijani Forces or UPAF


International organization participation:

ADB, BSEC, CE, CIS, EAPC, EBRD, ECO, FAO, GCTU, GUAM, IAEA, IBRD,
ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol,
IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM (observer), OAS
(observer), OIC, OPCW, OSCE, PFP, SECI (observer), UN, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Yashar ALIYEV
chancery: 2741 34th Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 337-3500
FAX: [1] (202) 337-5911
Consulate(s) general: Los Angeles


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Anne E. DERSE
embassy: 83 Azadlig Prospecti, Baku AZ1007
mailing address: American Embassy Baku, US Department of State, 7050
Baku Place, Washington, DC 20521-7050
telephone: [994] (12) 4980-335 through 337
FAX: [994] (12) 4656-671


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), red, and green; a
crescent and eight-pointed star in white are centered in red band


Economy
Azerbaijan



Economy - overview:

Azerbaijan's high economic growth in 2006 and 2007 is attributable
to large and growing oil exports. Azerbaijan's oil production
declined through 1997, but has registered an increase every year
since. Negotiation of production-sharing arrangements (PSAs) with
foreign firms, which have committed $60 billion to long-term
oilfield development, should generate the funds needed to spur
future industrial development. Oil production under the first of
these PSAs, with the Azerbaijan International Operating Company,
began in November 1997. A consortium of Western oil companies began
pumping 1 million barrels a day from a large offshore field in early
2006, through a $4 billion pipeline it built from Baku to Turkey's
Mediterranean port of Ceyhan. By 2010 revenues from this project
will double the country's current GDP. Azerbaijan shares all the
formidable problems of the former Soviet republics in making the
transition from a command to a market economy, but its considerable
energy resources brighten its long-term prospects. Baku has only
recently begun making progress on economic reform, and old economic
ties and structures are slowly being replaced. Several other
obstacles impede Azerbaijan's economic progress: the need for
stepped up foreign investment in the non-energy sector, the
continuing conflict with Armenia over the Nagorno-Karabakh region,
pervasive corruption, and elevated inflation. Trade with Russia and
the other former Soviet republics is declining in importance, while
trade is building with Turkey and the nations of Europe. Long-term
prospects will depend on world oil prices, the location of new oil
and gas pipelines in the region, and Azerbaijan's ability to manage
its energy wealth.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$64.66 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$31.32 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

23.4% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$8,000 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 6.2%
industry: 63.3%
services: 30.5% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

5.243 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 41%
industry: 7%
services: 52% (2001)


Unemployment rate:

1% official rate (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

24% (2005 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 3.1%
highest 10%: 29.5% (2001)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

36.5 (2001)


Investment (gross fixed):

20% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $6.755 billion
expenditures: $8.572 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

6.7% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

16.7% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

13% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

19.13% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$4.261 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$2.593 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$5.726 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

cotton, grain, rice, grapes, fruit, vegetables, tea, tobacco;
cattle, pigs, sheep, goats


Industries:

petroleum and natural gas, petroleum products, oilfield equipment;
steel, iron ore; cement; chemicals and petrochemicals; textiles


Industrial production growth rate:

25% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

23.8 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

27.5 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - exports:

800 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

500 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 89.7%
hydro: 10.3%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

1.099 million bbl/day (2008 est.)


Oil - consumption:

160,000 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

795,600 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - imports:

4,267 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

7 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

9.77 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

9.77 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2005)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

849.5 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$9.019 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$21.27 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

oil and gas 90%, machinery, cotton, foodstuffs


Exports - partners:

Turkey 17.4%, Italy 15.5%, Russia 8.7%, Iran 7.2%, Indonesia 6.4%,
Israel 6.1%, Georgia 5.7%, US 4.8%, France 4.3% (2007)


Imports:

$6.045 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, oil products, foodstuffs, metals, chemicals


Imports - partners:

Russia 17.6%, Turkey 10.9%, Germany 8.2%, Ukraine 8.2%, UK 7.2%,
Japan 5.2%, China 4.9%, US 4.7% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

ODA, $223.4 million (2005 est.)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$4.273 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$2.439 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$7.829 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$4.912 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Azerbaijani manat (AZN)


Currency code:

AZM


Exchange rates:

Azerbaijani manats (AZN) per US dollar - 0.8581 (2007), 0.8934
(2006), 4,727.1 (2005), 4,913.48 (2004), 4,910.73 (2003)
note: on 1 January 2006 Azerbaijan revalued its currency, with 5,000
old manats equal to 1 new manat


Communications
Azerbaijan



Telephones - main lines in use:

1.254 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

4.3 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: inadequate; requires considerable expansion and
modernization; teledensity of 15 main lines per 100 persons is low;
mobile-cellular penetration is increasing and is currently about 50
telephones per 100 persons
domestic: fixed-line telephony and a broad range of other telecom
services are controlled by a state-owned telecommunications monopoly
and growth has been stagnant; more competition exists in the
mobile-cellular market with three providers in 2006; satellite
service connects Baku to a modern switch in its exclave of Naxcivan
international: country code - 994; the old Soviet system of cable
and microwave is still serviceable; satellite earth stations - 2
(2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 10, FM 17, shortwave 1 (1998)


Radios:

175,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

2 (1997)


Televisions:

170,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.az


Internet hosts:

6,995 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

2 (2000)


Internet users:

1.036 million (2007)


Transportation
Azerbaijan



Airports:

35 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 27
over 3,047 m: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 6
1,524 to 2,437 m: 13
914 to 1,523 m: 4
under 914 m: 2 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 8
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 7 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 3,857 km; oil 2,436 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 2,122 km
broad gauge: 2,122 km 1.520-m gauge (1,278 km electrified) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 59,141 km
paved: 29,210 km
unpaved: 29,931 km (2004)


Merchant marine:

total: 89
by type: cargo 26, passenger 2, passenger/cargo 9, petroleum tanker
46, roll on/roll off 3, specialized tanker 3
registered in other countries: 3 (Malta 2, Panama 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Baku (Baki)


Military
Azerbaijan



Military branches:

Army, Navy, Air and Air Defense Forces (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

men between 18 and 35 are liable for military service; 18 years of
age for voluntary military service; length of military service is 18
months and 12 months for university graduates (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,278,888
females age 16-49: 2,291,770 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,696,167
females age 16-49: 1,923,556 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 94,402
female: 89,686 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

2.6% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Azerbaijan



Disputes - international:

Armenia supports ethnic Armenian secessionists in Nagorno-Karabakh
and since the early 1990s has militarily occupied 16% of Azerbaijan;
over 800,000 mostly ethnic Azerbaijanis were driven from the
occupied lands and Armenia; about 230,000 ethnic Armenians were
driven from their homes in Azerbaijan into Armenia and
Nagorno-Karabakh; Azerbaijan seeks transit route through Armenia to
connect to Naxcivan exclave; Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) continues to mediate dispute;
Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, and Russia have ratified Caspian seabed
delimitation treaties based on equidistance, while Iran continues to
insist on an even one-fifth allocation and challenges Azerbaijan's
hydrocarbon exploration in disputed waters; bilateral talks continue
with Turkmenistan on dividing the seabed and contested oilfields in
the middle of the Caspian; Azerbaijan and Georgia continue to
discuss the alignment of their boundary at certain crossing areas


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 2,400 (Russia)
IDPs: 580,000-690,000 (conflict with Armenia over Nagorno-Karabakh)
(2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Azerbaijan is primarily a source and transit
country for men, women, and children trafficked for the purposes of
commercial sexual exploitation and forced labor; women and some
children from Azerbaijan are trafficked to Turkey and the UAE for
the purpose of sexual exploitation; men and boys are trafficked to
Russia for the purpose of forced labor; Azerbaijan serves as a
transit country for victims from Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan,
and Moldova trafficked to Turkey and the UAE for sexual exploitation
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Azerbaijan is on the Tier 2 Watch
List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to
combat trafficking in persons, particularly efforts to investigate,
prosecute, and punish traffickers; to address complicity among law
enforcement personnel; and to adequately identify and protect
victims in Azerbaijan; the government has yet to develop a
much-needed mechanism to identify potential trafficking victims and
refer them to safety and care; poor treatment of trafficking victims
in courtrooms continues to be a problem (2008)


Illicit drugs:

limited illicit cultivation of cannabis and opium poppy, mostly for
CIS consumption; small government eradication program; transit point
for Southwest Asian opiates bound for Russia and to a lesser extent
the rest of Europe



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Bahamas, The

Introduction
Bahamas, The



Background:

Lucayan Indians inhabited the islands when Christopher COLUMBUS
first set foot in the New World on San Salvador in 1492. British
settlement of the islands began in 1647; the islands became a colony
in 1783. Since attaining independence from the UK in 1973, The
Bahamas have prospered through tourism and international banking and
investment management. Because of its geography, the country is a
major transshipment point for illegal drugs, particularly shipments
to the US and Europe, and its territory is used for smuggling
illegal migrants into the US.


Geography
Bahamas, The



Location:

Caribbean, chain of islands in the North Atlantic Ocean, southeast
of Florida, northeast of Cuba


Geographic coordinates:

24 15 N, 76 00 W


Map references:

Central America and the Caribbean


Area:

total: 13,940 sq km
land: 10,070 sq km
water: 3,870 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Connecticut


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

3,542 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical marine; moderated by warm waters of Gulf Stream


Terrain:

long, flat coral formations with some low rounded hills


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Mount Alvernia, on Cat Island 63 m


Natural resources:

salt, aragonite, timber, arable land


Land use:

arable land: 0.58%
permanent crops: 0.29%
other: 99.13% (2005)


Irrigated land:

10 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

NA


Natural hazards:

hurricanes and other tropical storms cause extensive flood and wind
damage


Environment - current issues:

coral reef decay; solid waste disposal


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

strategic location adjacent to US and Cuba; extensive island chain
of which 30 are inhabited


People
Bahamas, The



Population:

307,451
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 26.4% (male 40,608/female 40,506)
15-64 years: 66.9% (male 101,150/female 104,457)
65 years and over: 6.7% (male 8,472/female 12,258) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 28.4 years
male: 27.6 years
female: 29.2 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.57% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

17.06 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

9.22 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-2.14 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.02 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.97 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.69 male(s)/female
total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 23.67 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 28.89 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 18.34 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 65.72 years
male: 62.5 years
female: 69 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.13 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

3% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

5,600 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 200 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Bahamian(s)
adjective: Bahamian


Ethnic groups:

black 85%, white 12%, Asian and Hispanic 3%


Religions:

Baptist 35.4%, Anglican 15.1%, Roman Catholic 13.5%, Pentecostal
8.1%, Church of God 4.8%, Methodist 4.2%, other Christian 15.2%,
none or unspecified 2.9%, other 0.8% (2000 census)


Languages:

English (official), Creole (among Haitian immigrants)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 95.6%
male: 94.7%
female: 96.5% (2003 est.)


Education expenditures:

3.6% of GDP (2000)


Government
Bahamas, The



Country name:

conventional long form: Commonwealth of The Bahamas
conventional short form: The Bahamas


Government type:

constitutional parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Nassau
geographic coordinates: 25 05 N, 77 21 W
time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard
Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins second Sunday in March; ends
first Sunday in November


Administrative divisions:

21 districts; Acklins and Crooked Islands, Bimini, Cat Island,
Exuma, Freeport, Fresh Creek, Governor's Harbour, Green Turtle Cay,
Harbour Island, High Rock, Inagua, Kemps Bay, Long Island, Marsh
Harbour, Mayaguana, New Providence, Nichollstown and Berry Islands,
Ragged Island, Rock Sound, Sandy Point, San Salvador and Rum Cay


Independence:

10 July 1973 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 10 July (1973)


Constitution:

10 July 1973


Legal system:

based on English common law


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by Governor General Arthur D. HANNA (since 1 February
2006)
head of government: Prime Minister Hubert A. INGRAHAM (since 4 May
2007)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the prime
minister's recommendation
elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor general appointed by
the monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the
majority party or the leader of the majority coalition is usually
appointed prime minister by the governor general; the prime minister
recommends the deputy prime minister


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (16 seats; members
appointed by the governor general upon the advice of the prime
minister and the opposition leader to serve five-year terms) and the
House of Assembly (41 seats; members elected by direct popular vote
to serve five-year terms); the government may dissolve the
Parliament and call elections at any time
elections: last held 2 May 2007 (next to be held by May 2012)
election results: percent of vote by party - FNM 49.86%, PLP 47.02%;
seats by party - FNM 23, PLP 18


Judicial branch:

Privy Council in London; Courts of Appeal; Supreme (lower) Court;
Magistrates' Courts


Political parties and leaders:

Free National Movement or FNM [Hubert INGRAHAM]; Progressive Liberal
Party or PLP [Perry CHRISTIE]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Friends of the Environment
other: trade unions


International organization participation:

ACP, C, Caricom, CDB, FAO, G-77, IADB, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt (signatory),
ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol,
IOC, IOM, ITSO, ITU, LAES, MIGA, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW (signatory),
UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
WTO (observer)


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Cornelius A. SMITH
chancery: 2220 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 319-2660
FAX: [1] (202) 319-2668
consulate(s) general: Miami, New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Ned L. SIEGEL
embassy: 42 Queen Street, Nassau, New Providence
mailing address: local or express mail address: P. O. Box N-8197,
Nassau; US Department of State, 3370 Nassau Place, Washington, DC
20521-3370
telephone: [1] (242) 322-1181, 328-2206 (after hours)
FAX: [1] (242) 328-2206


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of aquamarine (top), gold, and
aquamarine, with a black equilateral triangle based on the hoist side


Economy
Bahamas, The



Economy - overview:

The Bahamas is one of the wealthiest Caribbean countries with an
economy heavily dependent on tourism and offshore banking. Tourism
together with tourism-driven construction and manufacturing accounts
for approximately 60% of GDP and directly or indirectly employs half
of the archipelago's labor force. Steady growth in tourism receipts
and a boom in construction of new hotels, resorts, and residences
had led to solid GDP growth in recent years, but tourist arrivals
have been on the decline since 2006. Financial services constitute
the second-most important sector of the Bahamian economy and, when
combined with business services, account for about 36% of GDP.
However, since December 2000, when the government enacted new
regulations on the financial sector, many international businesses
have left The Bahamas. Manufacturing and agriculture combined
contribute approximately a tenth of GDP and show little growth,
despite government incentives aimed at those sectors. Overall growth
prospects in the short run rest heavily on the fortunes of the
tourism sector. Tourism, in turn, depends on growth in the US, the
source of more than 80% of the visitors.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$8.553 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$6.586 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

2.8% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$28,000 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 3%
industry: 7%
services: 90% (2001 est.)


Labor force:

181,900 (2006)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture 5%, industry 5%, tourism 50%, other services 40% (2005
est.)


Unemployment rate:

7.6% (2006 est.)


Population below poverty line:

9.3% (2004)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: 27% (2000)


Budget:

revenues: $1.03 billion
expenditures: $1.03 billion (FY04/05)


Fiscal year:

1 July - 30 June


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.4% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

5.25% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

5.5% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$1.274 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$4.324 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$7.395 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

citrus, vegetables; poultry


Industries:

tourism, banking, cement, oil transshipment, salt, rum, aragonite,
pharmaceuticals, spiral-welded steel pipe


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

2.05 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

1.793 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

26,830 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

transshipments of 38,740 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

69,780 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$1.442 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$674 million (2006)


Exports - commodities:

mineral products and salt, animal products, rum, chemicals, fruit
and vegetables


Exports - partners:

US 20.4%, Singapore 15.5%, Spain 14.5%, Poland 14.3%, Germany 6.6%,
Guatemala 5.7%, Switzerland 5.2% (2007)


Imports:

$2.401 billion (2006)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and transport equipment, manufactures, chemicals, mineral
fuels; food and live animals


Imports - partners:

US 26.7%, South Korea 14.1%, Japan 13.5%, Italy 7.5%, Singapore
5.2%, Venezuela 4.5%, Spain 4.3% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$4.78 million (2004)


Debt - external:

$342.6 million (2004 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Bahamian dollar (BSD)


Currency code:

BSD


Exchange rates:

Bahamian dollars (BSD) per US dollar - 1 (2007), 1 (2006), 1 (2005),
1 (2004), 1 (2003)


Communications
Bahamas, The



Telephones - main lines in use:

132,900 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

374,000 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: modern facilities
domestic: totally automatic system; highly developed; the Bahamas
Domestic Submarine Network links 14 of the islands and is designed
to satisfy increasing demand for voice and broadband internet
services
international: country code - 1-242; landing point for the Americas
Region Caribbean Ring System (ARCOS-1) fiber-optic submarine cable
that provides links to South and Central America, parts of the
Caribbean, and the US; satellite earth stations - 2 (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 3, FM 5, shortwave 0 (2006)


Radios:

215,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

2 (2006)


Televisions:

67,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.bs


Internet hosts:

41 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

19 (2000)


Internet users:

120,000 (2007)


Transportation
Bahamas, The



Airports:

62 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 24
over 3,047 m: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 3
1,524 to 2,437 m: 12
914 to 1,523 m: 7 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 38
1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
914 to 1,523 m: 11
under 914 m: 22 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 2,717 km
paved: 1,560 km
unpaved: 1,133 km (2002)


Merchant marine:

total: 1,223
by type: barge carrier 1, bulk carrier 210, cargo 226, carrier 2,
chemical tanker 88, combination ore/oil 12, container 65, liquefied
gas 77, passenger 109, passenger/cargo 35, petroleum tanker 209,
refrigerated cargo 119, roll on/roll off 16, specialized tanker 3,
vehicle carrier 51
foreign-owned: 1,150 (Angola 6, Belgium 15, Bermuda 12, Brazil 2,
Canada 84, China 10, Croatia 1, Cuba 1, Cyprus 25, Denmark 67,
Finland 9, France 30, Germany 44, Greece 209, Hong Kong 30, Iceland
1, Indonesia 2, Ireland 2, Isle of Man 1, Italy 4, Japan 87, Jordan
2, Kenya 1, Malaysia 13, Monaco 15, Montenegro 2, Netherlands 9,
Nigeria 2, Norway 189, Poland 17, Russia 4, Saudi Arabia 16,
Singapore 17, Slovenia 1, South Africa 1, Spain 14, Sweden 4,
Switzerland 1, Thailand 5, Trinidad and Tobago 1, Turkey 8, UAE 23,
UK 56, US 106, Venezuela 1)
registered in other countries: 12 (Bolivia 1, Panama 9, Peru 1,
Portugal 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Freeport, Nassau, South Riding Point


Military
Bahamas, The



Military branches:

Royal Bahamian Defense Force: Land Force, Navy, Air Wing (2007)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age (est.); no conscription (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 80,200 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 50,282 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 3,016
female: 3,024 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0.5% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Bahamas, The



Disputes - international:

disagrees with the US on the alignment the northern axis of a
potential maritime boundary; continues to monitor and interdict drug
dealers and Haitian and Cuban refugees in Bahamian waters


Illicit drugs:

transshipment point for cocaine and marijuana bound for US and
Europe; offshore financial center



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Bahrain

Introduction
Bahrain



Background:

In 1783, the al-Khalifa family captured Bahrain from the Persians.
In order to secure these holdings, it entered into a series of
treaties with the UK during the 19th century that made Bahrain a
British protectorate. The archipelago attained its independence in
1971. Bahrain's small size and central location among Persian Gulf
countries require it to play a delicate balancing act in foreign
affairs among its larger neighbors. Facing declining oil reserves,
Bahrain has turned to petroleum processing and refining and has
transformed itself into an international banking center. King HAMAD
bin Isa al-Khalifa, after coming to power in 1999, pushed economic
and political reforms to improve relations with the Shia community.
Shia political societies participated in 2006 parliamentary and
municipal elections. Al Wifaq, the largest Shia political society,
won the largest number of seats in the elected chamber of the
legislature. However, Shi'a discontent has resurfaced in recent
years with street demonstrations and occasional low-level violence.


Geography
Bahrain



Location:

Middle East, archipelago in the Persian Gulf, east of Saudi Arabia


Geographic coordinates:

26 00 N, 50 33 E


Map references:

Middle East


Area:

total: 665 sq km
land: 665 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

3.5 times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

161 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
continental shelf: extending to boundaries to be determined


Climate:

arid; mild, pleasant winters; very hot, humid summers


Terrain:

mostly low desert plain rising gently to low central escarpment


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Persian Gulf 0 m
highest point: Jabal ad Dukhan 122 m


Natural resources:

oil, associated and nonassociated natural gas, fish, pearls


Land use:

arable land: 2.82%
permanent crops: 5.63%
other: 91.55% (2005)


Irrigated land:

40 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

0.1 cu km (1997)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.3 cu km/yr (40%/3%/57%)
per capita: 411 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

periodic droughts; dust storms


Environment - current issues:

desertification resulting from the degradation of limited arable
land, periods of drought, and dust storms; coastal degradation
(damage to coastlines, coral reefs, and sea vegetation) resulting
from oil spills and other discharges from large tankers, oil
refineries, and distribution stations; lack of freshwater resources
(groundwater and seawater are the only sources for all water needs)


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone
Layer Protection, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

close to primary Middle Eastern petroleum sources; strategic
location in Persian Gulf, through which much of the Western world's
petroleum must transit to reach open ocean


People
Bahrain



Population:

718,306
note: includes 235,108 non-nationals (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 26.4% (male 95,709/female 93,747)
15-64 years: 69.8% (male 288,957/female 212,706)
65 years and over: 3.8% (male 14,224/female 12,963) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 29.9 years
male: 33 years
female: 26.4 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.337% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

17.26 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

4.29 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

0.4 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.36 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 1.1 male(s)/female
total population: 1.25 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 15.64 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 18.27 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 12.93 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 74.92 years
male: 72.41 years
female: 77.5 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.53 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.2% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

fewer than 600 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 200 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Bahraini(s)
adjective: Bahraini


Ethnic groups:

Bahraini 62.4%, non-Bahraini 37.6% (2001 census)


Religions:

Muslim (Shia and Sunni) 81.2%, Christian 9%, other 9.8% (2001 census)


Languages:

Arabic, English, Farsi, Urdu


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 86.5%
male: 88.6%
female: 83.6% (2001 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 15 years
male: 14 years
female: 16 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

3.9% of GDP (1991)


Government
Bahrain



Country name:

conventional long form: Kingdom of Bahrain
conventional short form: Bahrain
local long form: Mamlakat al Bahrayn
local short form: Al Bahrayn
former: Dilmun


Government type:

constitutional monarchy


Capital:

name: Manama
geographic coordinates: 26 14 N, 50 34 E
time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

5 governorates; Asamah, Janubiyah, Muharraq, Shamaliyah, Wasat
note: each governorate administered by an appointed governor


Independence:

15 August 1971 (from UK)


National holiday:

National Day, 16 December (1971); note - 15 August 1971 was the date
of independence from the UK, 16 December 1971 was the date of
independence from British protection


Constitution:

adopted 14 February 2002


Legal system:

based on Islamic law and English common law; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

20 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: King HAMAD bin Isa al-Khalifa (since 6 March 1999);
Heir Apparent Crown Prince SALMAN bin Hamad (son of the monarch,
born 21 October 1969)
head of government: Prime Minister KHALIFA bin Salman al-Khalifa
(since 1971); Deputy Prime Ministers ALI bin Khalifa bin Salman
al-Khalifa, MUHAMMAD bin Mubarak al-Khalifa, Jawad al-ARAIDH
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the monarch
elections: the monarchy is hereditary; prime minister appointed by
the monarch


Legislative branch:

bicameral legislature consists of the Consultative Council (40
members appointed by the King) and the Council of Representatives or
Chamber of Deputies (40 seats; members directly elected to serve
four-year terms)
elections: Council of Representatives - last held November-December
2006 (next election to be held in 2010)
election results: Council of Representatives - percent of vote by
party - NA; seats by party - al Wifaq (Shia) 17, al Asala (Sunni
Salafi) 5, al Minbar (Sunni Muslim Brotherhood) 7, independents 11;
note - seats by party as of February 2007 - al Wifaq 17, al Asala 8,
al Minbar 7, al Mustaqbal (Moderate Sunni pro-government) 4,
unassociated independents (all Sunni) 3, independent affiliated with
al Wifaq (Sunni oppositionist) 1


Judicial branch:

High Civil Appeals Court


Political parties and leaders:

political parties prohibited but political societies were legalized
per a July 2005 law


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Shia activists; Sunni Islamist legislators
other: several small leftist and other groups are active


International organization participation:

ABEDA, AFESD, AMF, FAO, G-77, GCC, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt
(signatory), ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO,
Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAS, MIGA,
NAM, OAPEC, OIC, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU,
WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Houda Ezra Ibrahim NUNU
chancery: 3502 International Drive NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 342-1111
FAX: [1] (202) 362-2192
consulate(s) general: New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador J. Adam ERELI
embassy: Building #979, Road 3119 (next to Al-Ahli Sports Club),
Block 331, Zinj District, Manama
mailing address: PSC 451, Box 660, FPO AE 09834-5100; international
mail: American Embassy, Box 26431, Manama
telephone: [973] 1724-2700
FAX: [973] 1727-0547


Flag description:

red, the traditional color for flags of Persian Gulf states, with a
white serrated band (five white points) on the hoist side; the five
points represent the five pillars of Islam


Economy
Bahrain



Economy - overview:

With its highly developed communication and transport facilities,
Bahrain is home to numerous multinational firms with business in the
Gulf. Petroleum production and refining account for over 60% of
Bahrain's export receipts, over 70% of government revenues, and 11%
of GDP (exclusive of allied industries), underpinning Bahrain's
strong economic growth in recent years. Aluminum is Bahrain's second
major export after oil. Other major segments of Bahrain's economy
are the financial and construction sectors. Bahrain is focused on
Islamic banking and is competing on an international scale with
Malaysia as a worldwide banking center. Bahrain is actively pursuing
the diversification and privatization of its economy to reduce the
country's dependence on oil. As part of this effort, in August 2006
Bahrain and the US implemented a Free Trade Agreement (FTA), the
first FTA between the US and a Gulf state. Continued strong growth
hinges on Bahrain's ability to acquire new natural gas supplies as
feedstock to support its expanding petrochemical and aluminum
industries. Unemployment, especially among the young, and the
depletion of oil and underground water resources are long-term
economic problems.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$24.01 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$19.66 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6.7% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$33,900 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 0.3%
industry: 43.6%
services: 56% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

437,000
note: 44% of the population in the 15-64 age group is non-national
(2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 1%
industry: 79%
services: 20% (1997 est.)


Unemployment rate:

15% (2005 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Investment (gross fixed):

22.3% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $5.418 billion
expenditures: $4.968 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

31.2% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

3.3% (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

8.35% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$4.169 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$10.63 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$10.32 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

fruit, vegetables; poultry, dairy products; shrimp, fish


Industries:

petroleum processing and refining, aluminum smelting, iron
pelletization, fertilizers, Islamic and offshore banking, insurance,
ship repairing, tourism


Industrial production growth rate:

5.2% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

9.233 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

8.742 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

48,610 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

32,830 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

238,900 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

221,500 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

124.6 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

11.33 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

11.33 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

92.03 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$2.907 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$13.79 billion (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

petroleum and petroleum products, aluminum, textiles


Exports - partners:

Saudi Arabia 3.5%, US 2.5%, UAE 2.5% (2007)


Imports:

$10.93 billion (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

crude oil, machinery, chemicals


Imports - partners:

Saudi Arabia 37.7%, Japan 7.2%, US 6.2%, Germany 4.7%, UK 4.5%, UAE
4.2%, China 4.1% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$103.9 million (2004)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$4.101 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$7.858 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$13.31 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$7.72 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$21.12 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

Bahraini dinar (BHD)


Currency code:

BHD


Exchange rates:

Bahraini dinars (BHD) per US dollar - 0.376 (2007), 0.376 (2006),
0.376 (2005), 0.376 (2004), 0.376 (2003)


Communications
Bahrain



Telephones - main lines in use:

194,200 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

1.116 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: modern system
domestic: modern fiber-optic integrated services; digital network
with rapidly growing use of mobile-cellular telephones
international: country code - 973; landing point for the Fiber-Optic
Link Around the Globe (FLAG) submarine cable network that provides
links to Asia, Middle East, Europe, and US; tropospheric scatter to
Qatar and UAE; microwave radio relay to Saudi Arabia; satellite
earth station - 1 (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 2, FM 3, shortwave 0 (1998)


Radios:

338,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

4 (1997)


Televisions:

275,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.bh


Internet hosts:

2,621 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

250,000 (2007)


Transportation
Bahrain



Airports:

3 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 3
over 3,047 m: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 20 km; oil 52 km (2007)


Roadways:

total: 3,498 km
paved: 2,768 km
unpaved: 730 km (2003)


Merchant marine:

total: 9
by type: bulk carrier 4, container 4, petroleum tanker 1
foreign-owned: 6 (Kuwait 5, UAE 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Mina' Salman, Sitrah


Military
Bahrain



Military branches:

Bahrain Defense Forces (BDF): Ground Force (includes Air Defense),
Naval Force, Air Force, National Guard


Military service age and obligation:

17 years of age for voluntary military service; 15 years of age for
NCOs, technicians, and cadets; no conscription (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 210,938
females age 16-49: 170,471 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 171,536
females age 16-49: 142,714 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 6,543
female: 6,429 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

4.5% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Bahrain



Disputes - international:

none


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Bahrain is a destination country for men and
women trafficked for the purposes of involuntary servitude and
commercial sexual exploitation; men and women from Africa, South
Asia, and Southeast Asia migrate voluntarily to Bahrain to work as
laborers or domestic servants where some face conditions of
involuntary servitude such as unlawful withholding of passports,
restrictions on movements, non-payment of wages, threats, and
physical or sexual abuse; women from Thailand, Morocco, Eastern
Europe, and Central Asia are trafficked to Bahrain for the purpose
of commercial sexual exploitation
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Bahrain is on the Tier 2 Watch List
for failing to show evidence of increased efforts to combat human
trafficking, particularly efforts that enforce laws against
trafficking in persons, and that prevent the punishment of victims
of trafficking; during 2007, Bahrain passed a comprehensive law
prohibiting all forms of trafficking in persons; the government also
established a specialized anti-trafficking unit within the Ministry
of Interior to investigate trafficking crimes; however, the
government did not report any prosecutions or convictions for
trafficking offenses during 2007, despite reports of a substantial
problem of involuntary servitude and sex trafficking (2008)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Bangladesh

Introduction
Bangladesh



Background:

Europeans began to set up trading posts in the area of Bangladesh in
the 16th century; eventually the British came to dominate the region
and it became part of British India. In 1947, West Pakistan and East
Bengal (both primarily Muslim) separated from India (largely Hindu)
and jointly became the new country of Pakistan. East Bengal became
East Pakistan in 1955, but the awkward arrangement of a two-part
country with its territorial units separated by 1,600 km left the
Bengalis marginalized and dissatisfied. East Pakistan seceded from
its union with West Pakistan in 1971 and was renamed Bangladesh. A
military-backed caretaker regime suspended planned parliamentary
elections in January 2007 in an effort to reform the political
system and root out corruption; the regime has pledged new
democratic elections by the end of 2008. About a third of this
extremely poor country floods annually during the monsoon rainy
season, hampering economic development.


Geography
Bangladesh



Location:

Southern Asia, bordering the Bay of Bengal, between Burma and India


Geographic coordinates:

24 00 N, 90 00 E


Map references:

Asia


Area:

total: 144,000 sq km
land: 133,910 sq km
water: 10,090 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Iowa


Land boundaries:

total: 4,246 km
border countries: Burma 193 km, India 4,053 km


Coastline:

580 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 18 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: up to the outer limits of the continental margin


Climate:

tropical; mild winter (October to March); hot, humid summer (March
to June); humid, warm rainy monsoon (June to October)


Terrain:

mostly flat alluvial plain; hilly in southeast


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
highest point: Keokradong 1,230 m


Natural resources:

natural gas, arable land, timber, coal


Land use:

arable land: 55.39%
permanent crops: 3.08%
other: 41.53% (2005)


Irrigated land:

47,250 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

1,210.6 cu km (1999)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 79.4 cu km/yr (3%/1%/96%)
per capita: 560 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

droughts, cyclones; much of the country routinely inundated during
the summer monsoon season


Environment - current issues:

many people are landless and forced to live on and cultivate
flood-prone land; waterborne diseases prevalent in surface water;
water pollution, especially of fishing areas, results from the use
of commercial pesticides; ground water contaminated by naturally
occurring arsenic; intermittent water shortages because of falling
water tables in the northern and central parts of the country; soil
degradation and erosion; deforestation; severe overpopulation


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

most of the country is situated on deltas of large rivers flowing
from the Himalayas: the Ganges unites with the Jamuna (main channel
of the Brahmaputra) and later joins the Meghna to eventually empty
into the Bay of Bengal


People
Bangladesh



Population:

153,546,896 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 33.4% (male 26,364,370/female 24,859,792)
15-64 years: 63.1% (male 49,412,903/female 47,468,013)
65 years and over: 3.5% (male 2,912,321/female 2,529,502) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 22.8 years
male: 22.8 years
female: 22.9 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.022% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

28.86 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

8 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-0.65 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 1.15 male(s)/female
total population: 1.05 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 57.45 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 58.44 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 56.41 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 63.21 years
male: 63.14 years
female: 63.28 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

3.08 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

less than 0.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

13,000 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

650 (2001 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A and E, and typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria are high risks in
some locations
water contact disease: leptospirosis
animal contact disease: rabies
note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Bangladeshi(s)
adjective: Bangladeshi


Ethnic groups:

Bengali 98%, other 2% (includes tribal groups, non-Bengali Muslims)
(1998)


Religions:

Muslim 83%, Hindu 16%, other 1% (1998)


Languages:

Bangla (official, also known as Bengali), English


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 43.1%
male: 53.9%
female: 31.8% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 8 years
male: 8 years
female: 8 years (2004)


Education expenditures:

2.7% of GDP (2005)


Government
Bangladesh



Country name:

conventional long form: People's Republic of Bangladesh
conventional short form: Bangladesh
local long form: Gana Prajatantri Banladesh
local short form: Banladesh
former: East Bengal, East Pakistan


Government type:

parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Dhaka
geographic coordinates: 23 43 N, 90 24 E
time difference: UTC+6 (11 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

6 divisions; Barisal, Chittagong, Dhaka, Khulna, Rajshahi, Sylhet


Independence:

16 December 1971 (from West Pakistan); note - 26 March 1971 is the
date of independence from West Pakistan, 16 December 1971 is known
as Victory Day and commemorates the official creation of the state
of Bangladesh


National holiday:

Independence Day, 26 March (1971); note - 26 March 1971 is the date
of independence from West Pakistan, 16 December 1971 is Victory Day
and commemorates the official creation of the state of Bangladesh


Constitution:

4 November 1972, effective 16 December 1972; suspended following
coup of 24 March 1982, restored 10 November 1986; amended many times


Legal system:

based on English common law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Iajuddin AHMED (since 6 September 2002)
note: the country has a caretaker government until a general
election is held; Iajuddin AHMED remains as President and Minister
of Defense, and all other Cabinet portfolios are held by Caretaker
Advisers (CAs); the Chief CA, Fakhruddin AHMED, is roughly
equivalent to a prime minister
elections: president elected by National Parliament for a five-year
term (eligible for a second term); election scheduled for 16
September 2002 was not held since Iajuddin AHMED was the only
presidential candidate; he was sworn in on 6 September 2002 (next
election NA); following legislative elections, the leader of the
party that wins the most seats is usually appointed prime minister
by the president
election results: Iajuddin AHMED declared president-elect by the
Election Commission; he ran unopposed as president; percent of
National Parliament vote - NA


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Parliament or Jatiya Sangsad; 300 seats elected
by popular vote from single territorial constituencies; members
serve five-year terms; note - parliament not in session during the
extended caretaker regime
elections: last held 1 October 2001 (the scheduled January 2007
election has been postponed until 29 December 2008)
election results: percent of vote by party - BNP and alliance
partners 41%, AL 40%, other 19%; seats by party - BNP 193, AL 58, JI
17, JP (Ershad faction) 14, IOJ 2, JP (Manzur) 4, other 12; note -
the election of October 2001 brought to power a majority BNP
government aligned with three other smaller parties - JI, IOJ, and
Jatiya Party (Manzur)


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (the chief justices and other judges are appointed by
the president)


Political parties and leaders:

Awami League or AL [Sheikh HASINA]; Bangladesh Communist Party or
BCP [Manjurul A. KHAN]; Bangladesh Nationalist Party or BNP [Khaleda
ZIA]; Islami Oikya Jote or IOJ [Mufti Fazlul Haq AMINI];
Jamaat-e-Islami Bangladesh or JIB [Matiur Rahman NIZAMI]; Jatiya
Party or JP (Ershad faction) [Hussain Mohammad ERSHAD]; Jatiya Party
(Manzur faction) [Naziur Rahman MANZUR]; Liberal Democratic Party or
LDP [Badrudozza CHOWDHURY and Oli AHMED]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Advocacy to End Gender-based Violence through the MoWCA (Ministry of
Women's and Children's Affairs)
other: environmentalists; Islamist groups; religious leaders;
teachers; union leaders


International organization participation:

ADB, ARF, BIMSTEC, C, CP, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt
(signatory), ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURCAT,
MINURSO, MONUC, NAM, OIC, OPCW, SAARC, SACEP, UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNMIT, UNOCI, UNOMIG, UNWTO,
UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador M. Humayun KABIR
chancery: 3510 International Drive NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 244-0183
FAX: [1] (202) 244-7830/2771
consulate(s) general: Los Angeles, New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador James F. MORIARTY
embassy: Madani Avenue, Baridhara, Dhaka 1212
mailing address: G. P. O. Box 323, Dhaka 1000
telephone: [880] (2) 885-5500
FAX: [880] (2) 882-3744


Flag description:

green field with a large red disk shifted slightly to the hoist side
of center; the red disk represents the rising sun and the sacrifice
to achieve independence; the green field symbolizes the lush
vegetation of Bangladesh


Economy
Bangladesh



Economy - overview:

The economy has grown 5-6% over the past few years despite
inefficient state-owned enterprises, delays in exploiting natural
gas resources, insufficient power supplies, and slow implementation
of economic reforms. Bangladesh remains a poor, overpopulated, and
inefficiently-governed nation. Although more than half of GDP is
generated through the service sector, nearly two-thirds of
Bangladeshis are employed in the agriculture sector, with rice as
the single-most-important product. Garment exports and remittances
from Bangladeshis working overseas, mainly in the Middle East and
East Asia, fuel economic growth.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$208.3 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$72.42 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6.3% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$1,400 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 19%
industry: 28.7%
services: 52.3% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

69.4 million
note: extensive export of labor to Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, UAE, Oman,
Qatar, and Malaysia; workers' remittances estimated at $4.8 billion
in 2005-06. (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 63%
industry: 11%
services: 26% (FY95/96)


Unemployment rate:

2.5% (includes underemployment) (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

45% (2004 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 3.7%
highest 10%: 27.9% (2000)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

33.4 (2000)


Investment (gross fixed):

24.3% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $7.01 billion
expenditures: $9.464 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 July - 30 June


Public debt:

37.4% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

9.1% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

5% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

16% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$8.444 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$32.4 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$40.15 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

rice, jute, tea, wheat, sugarcane, potatoes, tobacco, pulses,
oilseeds, spices, fruit; beef, milk, poultry


Industries:

cotton textiles, jute, garments, tea processing, paper newsprint,
cement, chemical fertilizer, light engineering, sugar


Industrial production growth rate:

8.4% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

22.78 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

21.37 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 93.7%
hydro: 6.3%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

6,746 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

89,940 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

1,351 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

83,220 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

28 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

15.7 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

15.7 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

141.6 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$804.7 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$12.45 billion (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

garments, jute and jute goods, leather, frozen fish and seafood


Exports - partners:

US 23%, Germany 13%, UK 9.1%, France 5.5%, Belgium 4% (2007)


Imports:

$16.67 billion (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, chemicals, iron and steel, textiles,
foodstuffs, petroleum products, cement


Imports - partners:

China 15%, India 14.3%, Kuwait 8.3%, Singapore 6.2%, Hong Kong 4.2%
(2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$1.321 billion (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$5.278 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$21.23 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$4.971 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$104 million (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$3.61 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

taka (BDT)


Currency code:

BDT


Exchange rates:

taka (BDT) per US dollar - 69.893 (2007), 69.031 (2006), 64.328
(2005), 59.513 (2004), 58.15 (2003)


Communications
Bangladesh



Telephones - main lines in use:

1.187 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

34.37 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: inadequate for a modern country; fixed-line
telephone density remains less than 1 per 100 persons;
mobile-cellular telephone subscribership has been increasing rapidly
and is approaching 25 per 100 persons
domestic: modernizing; introducing digital systems; trunk systems
include VHF and UHF microwave radio relay links, and some
fiber-optic cable in cities
international: country code - 880; landing point for the SEA-ME-WE-4
fiber-optic submarine cable system that provides links to Europe,
the Middle East, and Asia; satellite earth stations - 6;
international radiotelephone communications and landline service to
neighboring countries (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 15, FM 13, shortwave 2 (2006)


Radios:

6.15 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

15 (1999)


Televisions:

770,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.bd


Internet hosts:

1,440 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

10 (2000)


Internet users:

500,000 (2007)


Transportation
Bangladesh



Airports:

16 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 15
over 3,047 m: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 4
1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 5 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 2,644 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 2,768 km
broad gauge: 946 km 1.676-m gauge
narrow gauge: 1,822 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 239,226 km
paved: 22,726 km
unpaved: 216,500 km (2003)


Waterways:

8,370 km
note: includes up to 3,060 km main cargo routes; network reduced to
5,200 km in dry season (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 40
by type: bulk carrier 3, cargo 27, container 5, passenger/cargo 1,
petroleum tanker 4
foreign-owned: 1 (China 1)
registered in other countries: 10 (Comoros 2, Honduras 1, Malta 2,
Panama 2, Singapore 2, Togo 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Chittagong, Mongla Port


Transportation - note:

the International Maritime Bureau reports the territorial waters of
Bangladesh as high risk for armed robbery against ships; numerous
commercial vessels have been attacked both at anchor and while
underway; crews have been robbed and stores or cargoes stolen


Military
Bangladesh



Military branches:

Bangladesh Defense Force: Bangladesh Army, Bangladesh Navy,
Bangladesh Air Force (Bangladesh Biman Bahini, BAF) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

16 years of age for voluntary military service; 17 years of age for
officers (both with parental consent); conscription legally possible
in emergency, but has never been implemented (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 41,199,340 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 31,968,168 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 1,311,850
female: 1,246,012 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.5% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Bangladesh



Disputes - international:

discussions with India remain stalled to delimit a small section of
river boundary, exchange territory for 51 small Bangladeshi exclaves
in India and 111 small Indian exclaves in Bangladesh, allocate
divided villages, and stop illegal cross-border trade, migration,
violence, and transit of terrorists through the porous border;
Bangladesh protests India's fencing and walling off high-traffic
sections of the porous boundary; a joint Bangladesh-India boundary
commission resurveyed and reconstructed 92 missing pillars in 2007;
dispute with India over New Moore/South Talpatty/Purbasha Island in
the Bay of Bengal deters maritime boundary delimitation; after 21
years, Bangladesh resumes talks with Burma on delimiting a maritime
boundary


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 26,268 (Burma)
IDPs: 65,000 (land conflicts, religious persecution) (2007)


Illicit drugs:

transit country for illegal drugs produced in neighboring countries



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Barbados

Introduction
Barbados



Background:

The island was uninhabited when first settled by the British in
1627. Slaves worked the sugar plantations established on the island
until 1834 when slavery was abolished. The economy remained heavily
dependent on sugar, rum, and molasses production through most of the
20th century. The gradual introduction of social and political
reforms in the 1940s and 1950s led to complete independence from the
UK in 1966. In the 1990s, tourism and manufacturing surpassed the
sugar industry in economic importance.


Geography
Barbados



Location:

Caribbean, island in the North Atlantic Ocean, northeast of Venezuela


Geographic coordinates:

13 10 N, 59 32 W


Map references:

Central America and the Caribbean


Area:

total: 431 sq km
land: 431 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

2.5 times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

97 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; rainy season (June to October)


Terrain:

relatively flat; rises gently to central highland region


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Mount Hillaby 336 m


Natural resources:

petroleum, fish, natural gas


Land use:

arable land: 37.21%
permanent crops: 2.33%
other: 60.46% (2005)


Irrigated land:

50 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

0.1 cu km (2003)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.09 cu km/yr (33%/44%/22%)
per capita: 333 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

infrequent hurricanes; periodic landslides


Environment - current issues:

pollution of coastal waters from waste disposal by ships; soil
erosion; illegal solid waste disposal threatens contamination of
aquifers


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

easternmost Caribbean island


People
Barbados



Population:

281,968 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 19.3% (male 27,270/female 27,193)
15-64 years: 71.7% (male 99,357/female 102,683)
65 years and over: 9% (male 9,856/female 15,609) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 35.4 years
male: 34.2 years
female: 36.4 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.36% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

12.48 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

8.58 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-0.31 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.01 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.97 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.63 male(s)/female
total population: 0.94 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 11.05 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 12.4 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 9.69 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 73.21 years
male: 71.2 years
female: 75.24 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.65 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

1.5% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

2,500 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 200 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Barbadian(s) or Bajan (colloquial)
adjective: Barbadian or Bajan (colloquial)


Ethnic groups:

black 90%, white 4%, Asian and mixed 6%


Religions:

Protestant 63.4% (Anglican 28.3%, Pentecostal 18.7%, Methodist 5.1%,
other 11.3%), Roman Catholic 4.2%, other Christian 7%, other 4.8%,
none or unspecified 20.6% (2008 est.)


Languages:

English


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over has ever attended school
total population: 99.7%
male: 99.7%
female: 99.7% (2002 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 13 years
male: 13 years
female: 14 years (2001)


Education expenditures:

6.9% of GDP (2005)


Government
Barbados



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Barbados


Government type:

parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Bridgetown
geographic coordinates: 13 06 N, 59 37 W
time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

11 parishes and 1 city*; Bridgetown*, Christ Church, Saint Andrew,
Saint George, Saint James, Saint John, Saint Joseph, Saint Lucy,
Saint Michael, Saint Peter, Saint Philip, Saint Thomas


Independence:

30 November 1966 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 30 November (1966)


Constitution:

30 November 1966


Legal system:

English common law; no judicial review of legislative acts; accepts
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by Governor General Sir Clifford Straughn HUSBANDS
(since 1 June 1996)
head of government: Prime Minister David THOMPSON (since 16 January
2008)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the advice of
the prime minister
elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor general appointed by
the monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the
majority party or the leader of the majority coalition is usually
appointed prime minister by the governor general; the prime minister
recommends the deputy prime minister


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (21 seats; members
appointed by the governor general - 12 on the advice of the Prime
Minister, 2 on the advice of the opposition leader, and 7 at his
discretion) and the House of Assembly (30 seats; members are elected
by direct popular vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: House of Assembly - last held 15 January 2008 (next to be
called in 2013)
election results: House of Assembly - percent of vote by party - DLP
52.5%, BLP 47.3%; seats by party - DLP 20, BLP 10


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court of Judicature (judges are appointed by the Service
Commissions for the Judicial and Legal Services); Caribbean Court of
Justice is the highest court of appeal


Political parties and leaders:

Barbados Labor Party or BLP [Mia MOTTLEY]; Democratic Labor Party or
DLP [David THOMPSON]; People's Empowerment Party or PEP [David
COMISSIONG]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Barbados Secondary Teachers' Union or BSTU [Patrick FROST]; Barbados
Union of Teachers or BUT [Herbert GITTENS]; Congress of Trade Unions
and Staff Associations of Barbados or CTUSAB, (includes the BWU,
NUPW, BUT, and BSTU) [Leroy TROTMAN]; Barbados Workers Union or BWU
[Leroy TROTMAN]; Clement Payne Labor Union [David COMISSIONG];
National Union of Public Workers [Joseph GODDARD]


International organization participation:

ACP, C, Caricom, CDB, FAO, G-77, IADB, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, ISO, ITSO, ITU,
ITUC, LAES, MIGA, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Michael Ian KING
chancery: 2144 Wyoming Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 939-9200
FAX: [1] (202) 332-7467
consulate(s) general: Miami, New York
consulate(s): Los Angeles


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Mary M. OURISMAN
embassy: U.S. Embassy, Wildey Business Park, Wildey, St. Michael BB
14006
mailing address: P. O. Box 302, Bridgetown BB 11000; CMR 1014, APO
AA 34055
telephone: [1] (246) 227-4399
FAX: [1] (246) 431-0179


Flag description:

three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side), gold, and blue with
the head of a black trident centered on the gold band; the trident
head represents independence and a break with the past (the colonial
coat of arms contained a complete trident)


Economy
Barbados



Economy - overview:

Historically, the Barbadian economy was dependent on sugarcane
cultivation and related activities. However, production in recent
years has diversified into light industry and tourism, with about
three-quarters of GDP and 80% of exports being attributed to
services. Growth has rebounded since 2003, bolstered by increases in
construction projects and tourism revenues - reflecting its success
in the higher-end segment. The country enjoys one of the highest per
capita incomes in the region and an investment grade rating which
benefits from its political stability and stable institutions.
Offshore finance and information services are important foreign
exchange earners and thrive from having the same time zone as
eastern US financial centers and a relatively highly educated
workforce. The government continues its efforts to reduce
unemployment, to encourage direct foreign investment, and to
privatize remaining state-owned enterprises.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$5.31 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$3.739 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

4.3% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$18,900 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 6%
industry: 16%
services: 78% (2000 est.)


Labor force:

128,500 (2001 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 10%
industry: 15%
services: 75% (1996 est.)


Unemployment rate:

10.7% (2003 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $847 million (including grants)
expenditures: $886 million (2000 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 April - 31 March


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

5.5% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

12% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

10.8% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$1.478 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$2.717 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$3.533 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

sugarcane, vegetables, cotton


Industries:

tourism, sugar, light manufacturing, component assembly for export


Industrial production growth rate:

-3.2% (2000 est.)


Electricity - production:

1.003 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

939.9 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

1,111 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

8,674 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

1,750 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

10,710 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

2.2 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

29.17 million cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

29.17 million cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

141.6 million cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$254 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$385 million (2006)


Exports - commodities:

manufactures, sugar and molasses, rum, other foods and beverages,
chemicals, electrical components


Exports - partners:

Trinidad and Tobago 15.5%, Jamaica 13.5%, UK 9.4%, US 9.3%, Brazil
8.3%, Saint Lucia 7.2%, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 4.5% (2007)


Imports:

$1.586 billion (2006)


Imports - commodities:

consumer goods, machinery, foodstuffs, construction materials,
chemicals, fuel, electrical components


Imports - partners:

US 30.5%, Trinidad and Tobago 27.6%, UK 6.5% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$2.07 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$620 million (2007)


Debt - external:

$668 million (2003)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$5.513 billion (2005)


Currency (code):

Barbadian dollar (BBD)


Currency code:

BBD


Exchange rates:

Barbadian dollars (BBD) per US dollar - NA (2007), 2 (2006), 2
(2005), 2 (2004), 2 (2003)


Communications
Barbados



Telephones - main lines in use:

134,900 (2005)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

237,100 (2006)


Telephone system:

general assessment: fixed-line teledensity of roughly 50 per 100
persons; mobile-cellular telephone density of about 85 per 100
persons
domestic: island-wide automatic telephone system
international: country code - 1-246; landing point for the East
Caribbean Fiber System (ECFS) submarine cable with links to 13 other
islands in the eastern Caribbean extending from the British Virgin
Islands to Trinidad; satellite earth stations - 1 (Intelsat
-Atlantic Ocean); tropospheric scatter to Trinidad and Saint Lucia
(2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 2, FM 6, shortwave 0 (2004)


Radios:

237,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (plus 2 cable channels) (2004)


Televisions:

76,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.bb


Internet hosts:

104 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

19 (2000)


Internet users:

160,000 (2005)


Transportation
Barbados



Airports:

1 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
over 3,047 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 1,600 km
paved: 1,600 km (2004)


Merchant marine:

total: 85
by type: bulk carrier 15, cargo 50, chemical tanker 7, passenger 1,
passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 3, refrigerated cargo 6, roll
on/roll off 2
foreign-owned: 80 (Canada 9, Greece 12, India 1, Iran 2, Lebanon 1,
Norway 38, Sweden 7, Syria 1, UK 9)
registered in other countries: 1 (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Bridgetown


Military
Barbados



Military branches:

Royal Barbados Defense Force: Troops Command, Barbados Coast Guard
(2007)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service (younger requires
parental consent); no conscription (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 75,265
females age 16-49: 75,389 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 58,556
females age 16-49: 58,143 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 2,157
female: 2,155 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0.5% of GDP (2006 est.)


Military - note:

the Royal Barbados Defense Force includes a land-based Troop Command
and a small Coast Guard; the primary role of the land element is to
defend the island against external aggression; the Command consists
of a single, part-time battalion with a small regular cadre that is
deployed throughout the island; it increasingly supports the police
in patrolling the coastline to prevent smuggling and other illicit
activities (2007)


Transnational Issues
Barbados



Disputes - international:

Barbados and Trinidad and Tobago abide by the April 2006 Permanent
Court of Arbitration decision delimiting a maritime boundary and
limiting catches of flying fish in Trinidad and Tobago's exclusive
economic zone; joins other Caribbean states to counter Venezuela's
claim that Aves Island sustains human habitation, a criterion under
the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), which permits
Venezuela to extend its EEZ/continental shelf over a large portion
of the eastern Caribbean Sea


Illicit drugs:

one of many Caribbean transshipment points for narcotics bound for
Europe and the US; offshore financial center



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Belarus

Introduction
Belarus



Background:

After seven decades as a constituent republic of the USSR, Belarus
attained its independence in 1991. It has retained closer political
and economic ties to Russia than any of the other former Soviet
republics. Belarus and Russia signed a treaty on a two-state union
on 8 December 1999 envisioning greater political and economic
integration. Although Belarus agreed to a framework to carry out the
accord, serious implementation has yet to take place. Since his
election in July 1994 as the country's first president, Alexandr
LUKASHENKO has steadily consolidated his power through authoritarian
means. Government restrictions on freedom of speech and the press,
peaceful assembly, and religion continue.


Geography
Belarus



Location:

Eastern Europe, east of Poland


Geographic coordinates:

53 00 N, 28 00 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 207,600 sq km
land: 207,600 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Kansas


Land boundaries:

total: 3,306 km
border countries: Latvia 171 km, Lithuania 680 km, Poland 605 km,
Russia 959 km, Ukraine 891 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

cold winters, cool and moist summers; transitional between
continental and maritime


Terrain:

generally flat and contains much marshland


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Nyoman River 90 m
highest point: Dzyarzhynskaya Hara 346 m


Natural resources:

forests, peat deposits, small quantities of oil and natural gas,
granite, dolomitic limestone, marl, chalk, sand, gravel, clay


Land use:

arable land: 26.77%
permanent crops: 0.6%
other: 72.63% (2005)


Irrigated land:

1,310 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

58 cu km (1997)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 2.79 cu km/yr (23%/47%/30%)
per capita: 286 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

NA


Environment - current issues:

soil pollution from pesticide use; southern part of the country
contaminated with fallout from 1986 nuclear reactor accident at
Chornobyl' in northern Ukraine


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Sulfur 85, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

landlocked; glacial scouring accounts for the flatness of Belarusian
terrain and for its 11,000 lakes


People
Belarus



Population:

9,685,768 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 14.4% (male 717,885/female 677,254)
15-64 years: 70.9% (male 3,333,699/female 3,531,920)
65 years and over: 14.7% (male 459,627/female 965,383) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 38.4 years
male: 35.4 years
female: 41.3 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

-0.393% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

9.62 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

13.92 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

0.38 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.94 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.48 male(s)/female
total population: 0.87 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 6.53 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 7.56 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 5.44 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 70.34 years
male: 64.63 years
female: 76.4 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.23 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.3% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

15,000 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

1,000 (2001 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Belarusian(s)
adjective: Belarusian


Ethnic groups:

Belarusian 81.2%, Russian 11.4%, Polish 3.9%, Ukrainian 2.4%, other
1.1% (1999 census)


Religions:

Eastern Orthodox 80%, other (including Roman Catholic, Protestant,
Jewish, and Muslim) 20% (1997 est.)


Languages:

Belarusian, Russian, other


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99.6%
male: 99.8%
female: 99.4% (1999 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 15 years
male: 14 years
female: 15 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

6.1% of GDP (2006)


Government
Belarus



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Belarus
conventional short form: Belarus
local long form: Respublika Byelarus'
local short form: Byelarus'
former: Belorussian (Byelorussian) Soviet Socialist Republic


Government type:

republic in name, although in fact a dictatorship


Capital:

name: Minsk
geographic coordinates: 53 54 N, 27 34 E
time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

6 provinces (voblastsi, singular - voblasts') and 1 municipality*
(horad); Brest, Homyel', Horad Minsk*, Hrodna, Mahilyow, Minsk,
Vitsyebsk
note: administrative divisions have the same names as their
administrative centers


Independence:

25 August 1991 (from Soviet Union)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 3 July (1944); note - 3 July 1944 was the date
Minsk was liberated from German troops, 25 August 1991 was the date
of independence from the Soviet Union


Constitution:

15 March 1994; revised by national referendum of 24 November 1996
giving the presidency greatly expanded powers and became effective
27 November 1996; revised again 17 October 2004 removing
presidential term limits


Legal system:

based on civil law system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Aleksandr LUKASHENKO (since 20 July 1994)
head of government: Prime Minister Sergey SIDORSKIY (since 19
December 2003); First Deputy Prime Minister Vladimir SEMASHKO (since
December 2003)
cabinet: Council of Ministers
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
first election took place 23 June and 10 July 1994; according to the
1994 constitution, the next election should have been held in 1999,
however, Aleksandr LUKASHENKO extended his term to 2001 via a
November 1996 referendum; subsequent election held 9 September 2001;
an October 2004 referendum ended presidential term limits and
allowed the president to run in a third election, which was held on
19 March 2006; prime minister and deputy prime ministers appointed
by the president
election results: Aleksandr LUKASHENKO reelected president; percent
of vote - Aleksandr LUKASHENKO 82.6%, Aleksandr MILINKEVICH 6%,
Aleksandr KOZULIN 2.3%; note - election marred by electoral fraud


Legislative branch:

bicameral National Assembly or Natsionalnoye Sobranie consists of
the Council of the Republic or Soviet Respubliki (64 seats; 56
members elected by regional councils and eight members appointed by
the president, to serve four-year terms) and the Chamber of
Representatives or Palata Predstaviteley (110 seats; members elected
by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
elections: Palata Predstaviteley - last held 28 September 2008 (next
to be held fall of 2012); international observers widely denounced
the elections as flawed and undemocratic based on massive government
falsification; pro-LUKASHENKO candidates won all 110 seats
election results: Soviet Respubliki - percent of vote by party - NA;
seats by party - NA; Palata Predstaviteley - percent of vote by
party - NA; seats by party - NA


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the president);
Constitutional Court (half of the judges appointed by the president
and half appointed by the Chamber of Representatives)


Political parties and leaders:

pro-government parties: Agrarian Party or AP [Mikhail SHIMANSKY];
Belarusian Communist Party or KPB; Belarusian Patriotic Movement
(Belarusian Patriotic Party) or BPR [Nikolay ULAKHOVICH, chairman];
Liberal Democratic Party of Belarus [Sergey GAYDUKEVICH]; Party of
Labor and Justice [Viktor SOKOLOV]; Social-Sports Party [Vladimir
ALEXANDROVICH]
opposition parties: Belarusian Christian Democracy Party
(unregistered) [Pavel SEVERINETS]; Belarusian Party of Communists or
PKB [Sergey KALYAKIN]; Belarusian Party of Labor (unregistered)
[Aleksandr BUKHVOSTOV, Leonid LEMESHONAK]; Belarusian Popular Front
or BPF [Vintsyuk VYACHORKA]; Belarusian Social-Democratic Gramada
[Stanislav SHUSHKEVICH]; Belarusian Social Democratic Party Hramada
(People's Assembly) or BSDPH [Aleksandr KOZULIN; Anatoliy LEVKOVICH,
acting]; Green Party [Oleg GROMYKO]; Party of Freedom and Progress
(unregistered) [Vladimir NOVOSYAD]; United Civic Party or UCP
[Anatoliy LEBEDKO]; Women's Party "Nadezhda" [Valentina MATUSEVICH,
chairperson]
other opposition includes: Christian Conservative BPF [Zyanon
PAZNIAK]; Ecological Party of Greens [Mikhail KARTASH]; Party of
Popular Accord [Sergey YERMAKK]; Republican Party [Vladimir BELAZOR]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Assembly of Pro-Democratic NGOs [Sergey MATSKEVICH]; Belarusian
Congress of Democratic Trade Unions [Aleksandr YAROSHUK]; Belarusian
Helsinki Committee [Tatiana PROTKO]; Belarusian Organization of
Working Women [Irina ZHIKHAR]; Charter 97 [Andrey SANNIKOV]; For
Freedom (unregistered) [Aleksandr MILINKEVICH]; Lenin Communist
Union of Youth (youth wing of the Belarusian Party of Communists or
PKB); National Strike Committee of Entrepreneurs [Aleksandr
VASILYEV, Valery LEVONEVSKY]; Partnership NGO [Nikolay ASTREYKA];
Perspektiva kiosk watchdog NGO [Anatol SHUMCHENKO]; Vyasna [Ales
BYALATSKY]; Women's Independent Democratic Movement [Ludmila
PETINA]; Youth Front (Malady Front) [Dmitriy DASHKEVICH, Sergey
BAKHUN]; Zubr youth group [Vladimir KOBETS]


International organization participation:

BSEC (observer), CEI, CIS, CSTO, EAEC, EAPC, EBRD, FAO, GCTU, IAEA,
IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMSO, Interpol, IOC,
IOM, IPU, ISO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, NSG, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, PFP, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
(observer)


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Mikhail KHVOSTOV
chancery: 1619 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009
telephone: [1] (202) 986-1604
FAX: [1] (202) 986-1805
consulate(s) general: New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Jonathan
MOORE
embassy: 46 Starovilenskaya Street, Minsk 220002
mailing address: PSC 78, Box B Minsk, APO 09723
telephone: [375] (17) 210-12-83, 217-7347, 217-7348
FAX: [375] (17) 234-7853


Flag description:

red horizontal band (top) and green horizontal band one-half the
width of the red band; a white vertical stripe on the hoist side
bears Belarusian national ornamentation in red


Economy
Belarus



Economy - overview:

Belarus has seen little structural reform since 1995, when President
LUKASHENKO launched the country on the path of "market socialism."
In keeping with this policy, LUKASHENKO reimposed administrative
controls over prices and currency exchange rates and expanded the
state's right to intervene in the management of private enterprises.
Since 2005, the government has re-nationalized a number of private
companies. In addition, businesses have been subject to pressure by
central and local governments, e.g., arbitrary changes in
regulations, numerous rigorous inspections, retroactive application
of new business regulations, and arrests of "disruptive" businessmen
and factory owners. A wide range of redistributive policies has
helped those at the bottom of the ladder; the Gini coefficient is
among the lowest in the world. Because of these restrictive economic
policies, Belarus has had trouble attracting foreign investment.
Nevertheless, GDP growth has been strong in recent years, reaching
nearly 7% in 2007, despite the roadblocks of a tough, centrally
directed economy with a high, but decreasing, rate of inflation.
Belarus receives heavily discounted oil and natural gas from Russia
and much of Belarus' growth can be attributed to the re-export of
Russian oil at market prices. Trade with Russia - by far its largest
single trade partner - decreased in 2007, largely as a result of a
change in the way the Value Added Tax (VAT) on trade was collected.
Russia has introduced an export duty on oil shipped to Belarus,
which will increase gradually through 2009, and a requirement that
Belarusian duties on re-exported Russian oil be shared with Russia -
80% will go to Russia in 2008, and 85% in 2009. Russia also
increased Belarusian natural gas prices from $47 per thousand cubic
meters (tcm) to $100 per tcm in 2007, and plans to increase prices
gradually to world levels by 2011. Russia's recent policy of
bringing energy prices for Belarus to world market levels may result
in a slowdown in economic growth in Belarus over the next few years.
Some policy measures, including tightening of fiscal and monetary
policies, improving energy efficiency, and diversifying exports,
have been introduced, but external borrowing has been the main
mechanism used to manage the growing pressures on the economy.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$103.5 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$44.77 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

8.2% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$10,600 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 8.7%
industry: 40.6%
services: 50.6% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

4.3 million (31 December 2005)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 14%
industry: 34.7%
services: 51.3% (2003 est.)


Unemployment rate:

1.6% officially registered unemployed; large number of underemployed
workers (2005)


Population below poverty line:

27.1% (2003 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 3.4%
highest 10%: 23.5% (2002)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

29.7 (2002)


Investment (gross fixed):

30.8% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $20.75 billion
expenditures: $20.87 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

8.4% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

10% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

8.58% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$4.065 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$6.823 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$12.16 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

grain, potatoes, vegetables, sugar beets, flax; beef, milk


Industries:

metal-cutting machine tools, tractors, trucks, earthmovers,
motorcycles, televisions, synthetic fibers, fertilizer, textiles,
radios, refrigerators


Industrial production growth rate:

5% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

29.91 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

30.43 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

5.789 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - imports:

10.15 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 99.5%
hydro: 0.1%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0.4% (2001)


Oil - production:

33,700 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

179,700 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

256,400 bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - imports:

394,100 bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - proved reserves:

198 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

164 million cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

21.76 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

21.6 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

2.832 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$2.876 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$24.47 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, mineral products, chemicals, metals,
textiles, foodstuffs


Exports - partners:

Russia 36.5%, Netherlands 17.8%, UK 6.3%, Ukraine 6.1%, Poland 5%,
Latvia 4.1% (2007)


Imports:

$28.32 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

mineral products, machinery and equipment, chemicals, foodstuffs,
metals


Imports - partners:

Russia 59.9%, Germany 7.6%, Ukraine 5.4% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$53.76 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$4.266 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$7.347 billion (31 December 2007)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Belarusian ruble (BYB/BYR)


Currency code:

BYB/BYR


Exchange rates:

Belarusian rubles (BYB/BYR) per US dollar - 2,145 (2007), 2,144.6
(2006), 2,150 (2005), 2,160.26 (2004), 2,051.27 (2003)


Communications
Belarus



Telephones - main lines in use:

3.672 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

5.96 million (2006)


Telephone system:

general assessment: Belarus lags behind its neighbors in upgrading
telecommunications infrastructure; state-owned Beltelcom is the sole
provider of fixed-line local and long distance service; fixed-line
teledensity of roughly 35 per 100 persons; mobile-cellular telephone
density of about 60 per 100 persons; modernization of the network
progressing with roughly two-thirds of switching equipment now
digital
domestic: fixed-line penetration is improving although rural areas
continue to be underserved; 3 GSM wireless networks are experiencing
rapid growth; strict government controls on telecommunications
technologies
international: country code - 375; Belarus is a member of the
Trans-European Line (TEL), Trans-Asia-Europe (TAE) fiber-optic line,
and has access to the Trans-Siberia Line (TSL); 3 fiber-optic
segments provide connectivity to Latvia, Poland, Russia, and
Ukraine; worldwide service is available to Belarus through this
infrastructure; additional analog lines to Russia; Intelsat,
Eutelsat, and Intersputnik earth stations (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 28, FM 37, shortwave 11 (1998)


Radios:

3.02 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

47 (plus 27 repeaters) (1995)


Televisions:

2.52 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.by


Internet hosts:

68,118 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

23 (2002)


Internet users:

6 million (2007)


Transportation
Belarus



Airports:

67 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 36
over 3,047 m: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 22
1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 7 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 31
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 2
under 914 m: 27 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 5,250 km; oil 1,528 km; refined products 1,730 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 5,512 km
broad gauge: 5,497 km 1.520-m gauge (874 km electrified)
standard gauge: 15 km 1.435 m (2006)


Roadways:

total: 94,797 km
paved: 84,028 km
unpaved: 10,769 km (2005)


Waterways:

2,500 km (use limited by location on perimeter of country and by
shallowness) (2003)


Ports and terminals:

Mazyr


Military
Belarus



Military branches:

Belarus Armed Forces: Land Force, Air and Air Defense Force (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18-27 years of age for compulsory military service; conscript
service obligation - 18 months (2005)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,491,643
females age 16-49: 2,528,779 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,727,974
females age 16-49: 2,093,106 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 64,232
female: 60,788 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.4% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Belarus



Disputes - international:

Boundary demarcated with Latvia and Lithuania in 2006; 1997 boundary
delimitation treaty with Ukraine remains unratified over unresolved
financial claims, preventing demarcation and diminishing border
security


Illicit drugs:

limited cultivation of opium poppy and cannabis, mostly for the
domestic market; transshipment point for illicit drugs to and via
Russia, and to the Baltics and Western Europe; a small and lightly
regulated financial center; new anti-money-laundering legislation
does not meet international standards; few investigations or
prosecutions of money-laundering activities



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Belgium

Introduction
Belgium



Background:

Belgium became independent from the Netherlands in 1830; it was
occupied by Germany during World Wars I and II. The country
prospered in the past half century as a modern, technologically
advanced European state and member of NATO and the EU. Tensions
between the Dutch-speaking Flemings of the north and the
French-speaking Walloons of the south have led in recent years to
constitutional amendments granting these regions formal recognition
and autonomy.


Geography
Belgium



Location:

Western Europe, bordering the North Sea, between France and the
Netherlands


Geographic coordinates:

50 50 N, 4 00 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 30,528 sq km
land: 30,278 sq km
water: 250 sq km


Area - comparative:

about the size of Maryland


Land boundaries:

total: 1,385 km
border countries: France 620 km, Germany 167 km, Luxembourg 148 km,
Netherlands 450 km


Coastline:

66.5 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: geographic coordinates define outer limit
continental shelf: median line with neighbors


Climate:

temperate; mild winters, cool summers; rainy, humid, cloudy


Terrain:

flat coastal plains in northwest, central rolling hills, rugged
mountains of Ardennes Forest in southeast


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: North Sea 0 m
highest point: Signal de Botrange 694 m


Natural resources:

construction materials, silica sand, carbonates


Land use:

arable land: 27.42%
permanent crops: 0.69%
other: 71.89%
note: includes Luxembourg (2005)


Irrigated land:

400 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

20.8 cu km (2005)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 7.44 cu km/yr (13%/85%/1%)
per capita: 714 cu m/yr (1998)


Natural hazards:

flooding is a threat along rivers and in areas of reclaimed coastal
land, protected from the sea by concrete dikes


Environment - current issues:

the environment is exposed to intense pressures from human
activities: urbanization, dense transportation network, industry,
extensive animal breeding and crop cultivation; air and water
pollution also have repercussions for neighboring countries;
uncertainties regarding federal and regional responsibilities (now
resolved) had slowed progress in tackling environmental challenges


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

crossroads of Western Europe; most West European capitals within
1,000 km of Brussels, the seat of both the European Union and NATO


People
Belgium



Population:

10,403,951 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 16.3% (male 864,287/female 828,435)
15-64 years: 66.3% (male 3,476,802/female 3,416,383)
65 years and over: 17.5% (male 751,745/female 1,066,299) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 41.4 years
male: 40.2 years
female: 42.7 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.106% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

10.22 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

10.38 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

1.22 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.04 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.7 male(s)/female
total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 4.5 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 5.06 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 3.92 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 79.07 years
male: 75.9 years
female: 82.38 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.65 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.2% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

10,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 100 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Belgian(s)
adjective: Belgian


Ethnic groups:

Fleming 58%, Walloon 31%, mixed or other 11%


Religions:

Roman Catholic 75%, other (includes Protestant) 25%


Languages:

Dutch (official) 60%, French (official) 40%, German (official) less
than 1%, legally bilingual (Dutch and French)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99%
male: 99%
female: 99% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 16 years
male: 16 years
female: 16 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

6% of GDP (2004)


Government
Belgium



Country name:

conventional long form: Kingdom of Belgium
conventional short form: Belgium
local long form: Royaume de Belgique/Koninkrijk Belgie
local short form: Belgique/Belgie


Government type:

federal parliamentary democracy under a constitutional monarchy


Capital:

name: Brussels
geographic coordinates: 50 50 N, 4 20 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

10 provinces (French: provinces, singular - province; Dutch:
provincies, singular - provincie) and 3 regions* (French: regions;
Dutch: gewesten); Brussels* (Bruxelles) capital region; Flanders*
region (five provinces): Antwerpen (Antwerp), Limburg,
Oost-Vlaanderen (East Flanders), Vlaams-Brabant (Flemish Brabant),
West-Vlaanderen (West Flanders); Wallonia* region (five provinces):
Brabant Wallon (Walloon Brabant), Hainaut, Liege, Luxembourg, Namur
note: as a result of the 1993 constitutional revision that furthered
devolution into a federal state, there are now three levels of
government (federal, regional, and linguistic community) with a
complex division of responsibilities


Independence:

4 October 1830 (a provisional government declared independence from
the Netherlands); 21 July 1831 (King LEOPOLD I ascended to the
throne)


National holiday:

21 July (1831) ascension to the Throne of King LEOPOLD I


Constitution:

7 February 1831; amended many times; revised 14 July 1993 to create
a federal state


Legal system:

based on civil law system influenced by English constitutional
theory; judicial review of legislative acts; accepts compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction, with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal and compulsory


Executive branch:

chief of state: King ALBERT II (since 9 August 1993); Heir Apparent
Prince PHILIPPE, son of the monarch
head of government: Prime Minister Yves LETERME (20 March 2008)
cabinet: Council of Ministers are formally appointed by the monarch
elections: the monarchy is hereditary and constitutional; following
legislative elections, the leader of the majority party or the
leader of the majority coalition is usually appointed prime minister
by the monarch and then approved by parliament


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament consists of a Senate or Senaat in Dutch, Senat
in French (71 seats; 40 members are directly elected by popular
vote, 31 are indirectly elected; members serve four-year terms) and
a Chamber of Deputies or Kamer van Volksvertegenwoordigers in Dutch,
Chambre des Representants in French (150 seats; members are directly
elected by popular vote on the basis of proportional representation
to serve four-year terms)
elections: Senate and Chamber of Deputies - last held 10 June 2007
(next to be held no later than June 2011)
election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - CDV/N-VA
19.4%, Open VLD 12.4%, MR 12.3%, VB 11.9%, PS 10.2%, SP.A-Spirit
10%, CDH 5.9%, Ecolo 5.8%, Groen! 3.6%, Dedecker List 3.4%, FN 2.3%,
other 2.8%; seats by party - CDV/N-VA 9, Open VLD 5, MR 6, VB 5, PS
4, SP.A-Spririt 4, CDH 2, Ecolo 2, Groen! 1, Dedecker List 1, FN 1
(note - there are also 31 indirectly elected senators); Chamber of
Deputies - percent of vote by party - CDV/N-VA 18.5%, MR 12.5%, VB
12%, Open VLD 11.8%, PS 10.9%, SP.A-Spirit 10.3%, CDH 6.1%, Ecolo
5.1%, Dedecker List 4%, Groen! 4%, FN 2%, other 2.8%; seats by party
- CDV/N-VA 30, MR 23, VB 17, Open VLD 18, PS 20, SP.A-Spirit 14, CDH
10, Ecolo 8, Dedecker List 5, Groen! 4, FN 1
note: as a result of the 1993 constitutional revision that furthered
devolution into a federal state, there are now three levels of
government (federal, regional, and linguistic community) with a
complex division of responsibilities; this reality leaves six
governments each with its own legislative assembly


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court of Justice or Hof van Cassatie (in Dutch) or Cour de
Cassation (in French) (judges are appointed for life by the
government; candidacies have to be submitted by the High Justice
Council)


Political parties and leaders:

Flemish parties: Christian Democratic and Flemish or CDV [Marianne
THYSSEN]; Dedecker List [Jean-Marie DEDECKER]; Flemish Liberals and
Democrats or Open VLD [Bart SOMERS]; Groen! [Mieke VOGELS] (formerly
AGALEV, Flemish Greens); New Flemish Alliance or N-VA [Bart DE
WEVER]; Social Progressive Alternative or SP.A [Caroline GENNEZ];
VlaamsProgressieven (Flemish Progressives) or VP [Bettina GEYSEN] -
formerly Spirit; Vlaams Belang (Flemish Interest) or VB [Bruno
VALKENIERS]
Francophone parties: Ecolo (Francophone Greens) [Jean-Michel JAVAUX,
Isabelle DURANT, Claude BROUIR]; Humanist and Democratic Center or
CDH [Joelle MILQUET]; National Front or FN [Daniel HUYGENS]; Reform
Movement or MR [Didier REYNDERS]; Socialist Party or PS [Elio DI
RUPO]; other minor parties


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Christian, Socialist, and Liberal Trade Unions; Federation of
Belgian Industries
other: numerous other associations representing bankers,
manufacturers, middle-class artisans, and the legal and medical
professions; various organizations represent the cultural interests
of Flanders and Wallonia; various peace groups such as Pax Christi
and groups representing immigrants


International organization participation:

ACCT, ADB (nonregional members), AfDB (nonregional members),
Australia Group, Benelux, BIS, CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EMU, ESA,
EU, FAO, G-9, G-10, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA,
IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MONUC, NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS
(observer), OECD, OIF, OPCW, OSCE, Paris Club, PCA, Schengen
Convention, SECI (observer), UN, UN Security Council (temporary),
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNMIS, UNRWA, UNTSO, UPU, WADB
(nonregional), WCL, WCO, WEU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Dominique STRUYE DE SWIELANDE
chancery: 3330 Garfield Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 333-6900
FAX: [1] (202) 333-3079
consulate(s) general: Los Angeles, New York
consulate(s): Atlanta


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Sam FOX
embassy: 27 Boulevard du Regent [Regentlaan], B-1000 Brussels
mailing address: PSC 82, Box 002, APO AE 09710
telephone: [32] (2) 508-2111
FAX: [32] (2) 511-2725


Flag description:

three equal vertical bands of black (hoist side), yellow, and red
note: the design was based on the flag of France


Economy
Belgium



Economy - overview:

This modern, private-enterprise economy has capitalized on its
central geographic location, highly developed transport network, and
diversified industrial and commercial base. Industry is concentrated
mainly in the populous Flemish area in the north. With few natural
resources, Belgium must import substantial quantities of raw
materials and export a large volume of manufactures, making its
economy unusually dependent on the state of world markets. Roughly
three-quarters of its trade is with other EU countries. Public debt
is more than 85% of GDP. On the positive side, the government has
succeeded in balancing its budget, and income distribution is
relatively equal. Belgium began circulating the euro currency in
January 2002. Economic growth in 2001-03 dropped sharply because of
the global economic slowdown, with moderate recovery in 2004-07.
Economic growth and foreign direct investment are expected to slow
down in 2008, due to credit tightening, falling consumer and
business confidence, and above average inflation. However, with the
successful negotiation of the 2008 budget and devolution of power
within the government, political tensions seem to be easing and
could lead to an improvement in the economic outlook for 2008.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$376.5 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$453.6 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

2.8% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$36,200 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 1.1%
industry: 24.5%
services: 74.4% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

4.94 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 2%
industry: 25%
services: 73% (2007 est.)


Unemployment rate:

7.5% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

15.2% (2007 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 3.4%
highest 10%: 28.4% (2006)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

28 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

21.3% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $220.1 billion
expenditures: $221 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

84.6% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

1.8% (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

6.98% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

NA
note: see entry for the European Union for money supply in the Euro
Area; the European Central Bank (ECB) controls monetary policy for
the 15 members of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU); individual
members of the EMU do not control the quantity of money and quasi
money circulating within their own borders


Stock of quasi money:

NA


Stock of domestic credit:

$767.7 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

sugar beets, fresh vegetables, fruits, grain, tobacco; beef, veal,
pork, milk


Industries:

engineering and metal products, motor vehicle assembly,
transportation equipment, scientific instruments, processed food and
beverages, chemicals, basic metals, textiles, glass, petroleum


Industrial production growth rate:

2.8% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

82.94 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

85.54 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

9.035 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

15.78 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 38.4%
hydro: 0.6%
nuclear: 59.3%
other: 1.8% (2001)


Oil - production:

8,671 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

628,500 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

528,700 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

1.119 million bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

17.39 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

17.34 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006)


Current account balance:

$3.282 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$322.2 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, chemicals, diamonds, metals and metal
products, foodstuffs


Exports - partners:

Germany 19.5%, France 16.7%, Netherlands 11.9%, UK 7.6%, US 5.7%,
Italy 5.2% (2007)


Imports:

$323.2 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, chemicals, diamonds, pharmaceuticals,
foodstuffs, transportation equipment, oil products


Imports - partners:

Germany 17.7%, Netherlands 17.6%, France 11.2%, UK 6.2%, US 5.4%,
Ireland 4.9%, China 4.1% (2007)


Economic aid - donor:

ODA, $1.978 billion (2006)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$16.51 billion (2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$1.313 trillion (30 June 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$678.2 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$540.1 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$422.7 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

euro (EUR)


Currency code:

EUR


Exchange rates:

euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006), 0.8041
(2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)


Communications
Belgium



Telephones - main lines in use:

4.668 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

10.23 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: highly developed, technologically advanced, and
completely automated domestic and international telephone and
telegraph facilities
domestic: nationwide cellular telephone system; extensive cable
network; limited microwave radio relay network
international: country code - 32; landing point for a number of
submarine cables that provide links to Europe, the Middle East, and
Asia; satellite earth stations - 7 (Intelsat - 3) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 7, FM 79, shortwave 1 (1998)


Radios:

8.075 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

25 (plus 10 repeaters) (1997)


Televisions:

4.72 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.be


Internet hosts:

3.841 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

61 (2000)


Internet users:

5.22 million (2007)


Transportation
Belgium



Airports:

43 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 27
over 3,047 m: 6
2,438 to 3,047 m: 7
1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 9 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 16
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 15 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 1,562 km; oil 158 km; refined products 535 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 3,536 km
standard gauge: 3,536 km 1.435-m gauge (2,950 km electrified) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 152,256 km
paved: 119,079 km (includes 1,763 km of expressways)
unpaved: 33,177 km (2006)


Waterways:

2,043 km (1,528 km in regular commercial use) (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 79
by type: bulk carrier 20, cargo 9, chemical tanker 1, container 6,
liquefied gas 20, passenger 2, petroleum tanker 11, roll on/roll off
10
foreign-owned: 6 (Denmark 4, France 2)
registered in other countries: 111 (Bahamas 15, Cyprus 2, France 6,
Gibraltar 2, Greece 16, Hong Kong 3, Liberia 4, Luxembourg 7, Malta
15, Mozambique 2, Netherlands 2, Netherlands Antilles 1, Panama 2,
Portugal 1, Portugal 7, Russia 4, Saint Kitts and Nevis 1, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines 8, Sierra Leone 1, Singapore 8, Vanuatu
4) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Antwerp, Gent, Liege, Zeebrugge


Military
Belgium



Military branches:

Belgian Armed Forces: Land Operations Command, Naval Operations
Command, Air Operations Command (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service; conscription
suspended (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,407,128
females age 16-49: 2,340,039 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,973,167
females age 16-49: 1,915,990 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 64,659
female: 61,881 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.3% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Belgium



Disputes - international:

none


Illicit drugs:

growing producer of synthetic drugs and cannabis; transit point for
US-bound ecstasy; source of precursor chemicals for South American
cocaine processors; transshipment point for cocaine, heroin,
hashish, and marijuana entering Western Europe; despite a
strengthening of legislation, the country remains vulnerable to
money laundering related to narcotics, automobiles, alcohol, and
tobacco; significant domestic consumption of ecstasy



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Belize

Introduction
Belize



Background:

Belize was the site of several Mayan city states until their decline
at the end of the first millennium A.D. The British and Spanish
disputed the region in the 17th and 18th centuries; it formally
became the colony of British Honduras in 1854. Territorial disputes
between the UK and Guatemala delayed the independence of Belize
until 1981. Guatemala refused to recognize the new nation until
1992. Tourism has become the mainstay of the economy. Current
concerns include an unsustainable foreign debt, high unemployment,
growing involvement in the South American drug trade, growing urban
crime, and increasing incidences of HIV/AIDS.


Geography
Belize



Location:

Central America, bordering the Caribbean Sea, between Guatemala and
Mexico


Geographic coordinates:

17 15 N, 88 45 W


Map references:

Central America and the Caribbean


Area:

total: 22,966 sq km
land: 22,806 sq km
water: 160 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Massachusetts


Land boundaries:

total: 516 km
border countries: Guatemala 266 km, Mexico 250 km


Coastline:

386 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm in the north, 3 nm in the south; note - from
the mouth of the Sarstoon River to Ranguana Cay, Belize's
territorial sea is 3 nm; according to Belize's Maritime Areas Act,
1992, the purpose of this limitation is to provide a framework for
negotiating a definitive agreement on territorial differences with
Guatemala
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; very hot and humid; rainy season (May to November); dry
season (February to May)


Terrain:

flat, swampy coastal plain; low mountains in south


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
highest point: Doyle's Delight 1,160 m


Natural resources:

arable land potential, timber, fish, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 3.05%
permanent crops: 1.39%
other: 95.56% (2005)


Irrigated land:

30 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

18.6 cu km (2000)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.15 cu km/yr (7%/73%/20%)
per capita: 556 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

frequent, devastating hurricanes (June to November) and coastal
flooding (especially in south)


Environment - current issues:

deforestation; water pollution from sewage, industrial effluents,
agricultural runoff; solid and sewage waste disposal


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

only country in Central America without a coastline on the North
Pacific Ocean


People
Belize



Population:

301,270 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 38.4% (male 58,987/female 56,674)
15-64 years: 58.1% (male 88,521/female 86,450)
65 years and over: 3.5% (male 5,095/female 5,543) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 20.1 years
male: 20 years
female: 20.3 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.207% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

27.84 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

5.77 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.92 male(s)/female
total population: 1.03 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 23.65 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 26.35 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 20.81 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 68.19 years
male: 66.39 years
female: 70.08 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

3.44 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

2.4% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

3,600 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 200 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: intermediate
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria
water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Belizean(s)
adjective: Belizean


Ethnic groups:

mestizo 48.7%, Creole 24.9%, Maya 10.6%, Garifuna 6.1%, other 9.7%
(2000 census)


Religions:

Roman Catholic 49.6%, Protestant 27% (Pentecostal 7.4%, Anglican
5.3%, Seventh-Day Adventist 5.2%, Mennonite 4.1%, Methodist 3.5%,
Jehovah's Witnesses 1.5%), other 14%, none 9.4% (2000)


Languages:

Spanish 46%, Creole 32.9%, Mayan dialects 8.9%, English 3.9%
(official), Garifuna 3.4% (Carib), German 3.3%, other 1.4%, unknown
0.2% (2000 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 76.9%
male: 76.7%
female: 77.1% (2000 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 13 years
male: 13 years
female: 13 years (2004)


Education expenditures:

5.3% of GDP (2004)


Government
Belize



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Belize
former: British Honduras


Government type:

parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Belmopan
geographic coordinates: 17 15 N, 88 46 W
time difference: UTC-6 (1 hour behind Washington, DC during Standard
Time)


Administrative divisions:

6 districts; Belize, Cayo, Corozal, Orange Walk, Stann Creek, Toledo


Independence:

21 September 1981 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 21 September (1981)


Constitution:

21 September 1981


Legal system:

English law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by Governor General Sir Colville YOUNG, Sr. (since 17
November 1993)
head of government: Prime Minister Dean BARROW (since 8 February
2008); Deputy Prime Minister Gaspar VEGA (since 12 February 2008)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the advice of
the prime minister
elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor general appointed by
the monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the
majority party or the leader of the majority coalition is usually
appointed prime minister by the governor general; prime minister
recommends the deputy prime minister


Legislative branch:

bicameral National Assembly consists of the Senate (12 seats;
members appointed by the governor general - 6 on the advice of the
prime minister, 3 on the advice of the leader of the opposition, and
1 each on the advice of the Belize Council of Churches and
Evangelical Association of Churches, the Belize Chamber of Commerce
and Industry and the Belize Better Business Bureau, and the National
Trade Union Congress and the Civil Society Steering Committee; to
serve five-year terms) and the House of Representatives (31 seats;
members are elected by direct popular vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: House of Representatives - last held 6 February 2008
(next to be held in 2013)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
UDP 25, PUP 6


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court of Judicature (the chief justice is appointed by the
governor general on the advice of the prime minister); Court of
Appeal


Political parties and leaders:

National Alliance for Belizean Rights or NABR; National Reform Party
or NRP [Cornelius DUECK]; People's National Party or PNP [Wil
MAHEIA]; People's United Party or PUP [Said MUSA]; United Democratic
Party or UDP [Dean BARROW]; Vision Inspired by the People or VIP
[Paul MORGAN]; We the People Reform Movement or WTP [Hipolito
BAUTISTA]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Society for the Promotion of Education and Research or SPEAR
[Gustavo PERERA]; Association of Concerned Belizeans or ACB [David
VASQUEZ]; National Trade Union Congress of Belize or NTUC/B [Rene
GOMEZ]


International organization participation:

ACP, C, Caricom, CDB, FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM,
IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ITU, ITUC,
LAES, MIGA, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Nestor MENDEZ
chancery: 2535 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 332-9636
FAX: [1] (202) 332-6888
consulate(s) general: Los Angeles


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Robert J. DIETER
embassy: Floral Park Road, Belmopan City, Cayo District
mailing address: P.O. Box 497, Belmopan City, Cayo District, Belize
telephone: [501] 822-4011
FAX: [501] 822-4012


Flag description:

blue with a narrow red stripe along the top and the bottom edges;
centered is a large white disk bearing the coat of arms; the coat of
arms features a shield flanked by two workers in front of a mahogany
tree with the related motto SUB UMBRA FLOREO (I Flourish in the
Shade) on a scroll at the bottom, all encircled by a green garland


Economy
Belize



Economy - overview:

In this small, essentially private-enterprise economy, tourism is
the number one foreign exchange earner followed by exports of marine
products, citrus, cane sugar, bananas, and garments. The
government's expansionary monetary and fiscal policies, initiated in
September 1998, led to sturdy GDP growth averaging nearly 4% in
1999-2007. Oil discoveries in 2006 bolstered the economic growth in
2006 and 2007. Major concerns continue to be the sizable trade
deficit and unsustainable foreign debt. In February 2007, the
government restructured nearly all of its public external commercial
debt, which will reduce interest payments and relieve liquidity
concerns. A key short-term objective remains the reduction of
poverty with the help of international donors.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$2.444 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$1.274 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

2.2% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$7,900 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 21.3%
industry: 13.7%
services: 65% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

113,000
note: shortage of skilled labor and all types of technical personnel
(2006 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 22.5%
industry: 15.2%
services: 62.3% (2005 est.)


Unemployment rate:

9.4% (2006)


Population below poverty line:

33.5% (2002 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Investment (gross fixed):

19.7% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $307 million
expenditures: $344 million (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 April - 31 March


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.3% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

12% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

14.33% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$323.9 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$549 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$877.6 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

bananas, cacao, citrus, sugar; fish, cultured shrimp; lumber;
garments


Industries:

garment production, food processing, tourism, construction, oil


Industrial production growth rate:

0.5% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

213.5 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

193.3 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 59.9%
hydro: 40.1%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

3,000 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

7,000 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

1,960 bbl/day (2006)


Oil - imports:

7,122 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

6.7 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$43 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$429 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

sugar, bananas, citrus, clothing, fish products, molasses, wood


Exports - partners:

US 28.7%, UK 16.3%, Thailand 5.8%, Cote d'Ivoire 5.4%, Finland 4.2%,
Spain 4% (2007)


Imports:

$642 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and transport equipment, manufactured goods; fuels,
chemicals, pharmaceuticals; food, beverages, tobacco


Imports - partners:

US 31.2%, Mexico 13.6%, Cuba 8.5%, Guatemala 8%, Russia 4.6% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$12.91 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$109 million (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$1.2 billion (June 2005 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Belizean dollar (BZD)


Currency code:

BZD


Exchange rates:

Belizean dollars (BZD) per US dollar - 2 (2007), 2 (2006), 2 (2005),
2 (2004), 2 (2003)


Communications
Belize



Telephones - main lines in use:

33,900 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

118,300 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: above-average system; fixed-line teledensity of
12 per 100 persons; mobile-cellular telephone density of about 40
per 100 persons
domestic: trunk network depends primarily on microwave radio relay
international: country code - 501; landing point for the Americas
Region Caribbean Ring System (ARCOS-1) fiber-optic
telecommunications submarine cable that provides links to South and
Central America, parts of the Caribbean, and the US; satellite earth
station - 8 (Intelsat - 2, unknown - 6) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 16, shortwave 0 (2006)


Radios:

133,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

5 (2006)


Televisions:

41,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.bz


Internet hosts:

2,751 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

2 (2000)


Internet users:

32,000 (2007)


Transportation
Belize



Airports:

44 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 4
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 2 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 40
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 12
under 914 m: 27 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 3,007 km
paved: 575 km
unpaved: 2,432 km (2006)


Waterways:

825 km (navigable only by small craft) (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 216
by type: barge carrier 1, bulk carrier 32, cargo 152, chemical
tanker 2, container 1, passenger 1, petroleum tanker 9, refrigerated
cargo 12, roll on/roll off 5, specialized tanker 1
foreign-owned: 178 (Australia 1, China 71, Croatia 2, Cyprus 1,
Estonia 6, Greece 1, Iceland 2, Italy 3, Japan 8, South Korea 1,
Latvia 12, Norway 3, Peru 1, Russia 31, Singapore 2, Spain 1, Turkey
15, Ukraine 7, UAE 5, UK 5) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Belize City, Big Creek


Military
Belize



Military branches:

Belize Defense Force (BDF): Army, BDF Air Wing, BDF Volunteer Guard
(2007)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service; laws allow for
conscription only if volunteers are insufficient; conscription has
never been implemented; volunteers typically outnumber available
positions by 3:1 (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 74,605
females age 16-49: 72,926 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 54,627
females age 16-49: 53,500 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 3,580
female: 3,449 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.4% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Belize



Disputes - international:

OAS-initiated Agreement on the Framework for Negotiations and
Confidence Building Measures saw cooperation in repatriation of
Guatemalan squatters and other areas, but Guatemalan land and
maritime claims in Belize and the Caribbean Sea remain unresolved;
the Line of Adjacency created under the 2002 Differendum serves in
lieu of the contiguous international boundary to control squatting
in the sparsely inhabited rain forests of Belize's border region;
Honduras claims Belizean-administered Sapodilla Cays in its
constitution but agreed to a joint ecological park under the
Differendum


Illicit drugs:

transshipment point for cocaine; small-scale illicit producer of
cannabis, primarily for local consumption; money-laundering activity
related to narcotics trafficking and offshore sector



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Benin

Introduction
Benin



Background:

Present day Benin was the site of Dahomey, a prominent West African
kingdom that rose in the 15th century. The territory became a French
Colony in 1872 and achieved independence on 1 August 1960, as the
Republic of Benin. A succession of military governments ended in
1972 with the rise to power of Mathieu KEREKOU and the establishment
of a government based on Marxist-Leninist principles. A move to
representative government began in 1989. Two years later, free
elections ushered in former Prime Minister Nicephore SOGLO as
president, marking the first successful transfer of power in Africa
from a dictatorship to a democracy. KEREKOU was returned to power by
elections held in 1996 and 2001, though some irregularities were
alleged. KEREKOU stepped down at the end of his second term in 2006
and was succeeded by Thomas YAYI Boni, a political outsider and
independent. YAYI has begun a high profile fight against corruption
and has strongly promoted accelerating Benin's economic growth.


Geography
Benin



Location:

Western Africa, bordering the Bight of Benin, between Nigeria and
Togo


Geographic coordinates:

9 30 N, 2 15 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 112,620 sq km
land: 110,620 sq km
water: 2,000 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Pennsylvania


Land boundaries:

total: 1,989 km
border countries: Burkina Faso 306 km, Niger 266 km, Nigeria 773 km,
Togo 644 km


Coastline:

121 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; hot, humid in south; semiarid in north


Terrain:

mostly flat to undulating plain; some hills and low mountains


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Mont Sokbaro 658 m


Natural resources:

small offshore oil deposits, limestone, marble, timber


Land use:

arable land: 23.53%
permanent crops: 2.37%
other: 74.1% (2005)


Irrigated land:

120 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

25.8 cu km (2001)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.13 cu km/yr (32%/23%/45%)
per capita: 15 cu m/yr (2001)


Natural hazards:

hot, dry, dusty harmattan wind may affect north from December to
March


Environment - current issues:

inadequate supplies of potable water; poaching threatens wildlife
populations; deforestation; desertification


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

sandbanks create difficult access to a coast with no natural
harbors, river mouths, or islands


People
Benin



Population:

8,532,547
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 45.5% (male 1,978,897/female 1,901,005)
15-64 years: 51.9% (male 2,195,667/female 2,236,458)
65 years and over: 2.6% (male 91,213/female 129,307) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 17.1 years
male: 16.7 years
female: 17.6 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

3.01% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

39.8 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

9.69 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.7 male(s)/female
total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 66.2 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 69.68 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 62.55 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 58.56 years
male: 57.42 years
female: 59.76 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

5.58 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

1.9% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

68,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

5,800 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: malaria and yellow fever
respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Beninese (singular and plural)
adjective: Beninese


Ethnic groups:

Fon and related 39.2%, Adja and related 15.2%, Yoruba and related
12.3%, Bariba and related 9.2%, Peulh and related 7%, Ottamari and
related 6.1%, Yoa-Lokpa and related 4%, Dendi and related 2.5%,
other 1.6% (includes Europeans), unspecified 2.9% (2002 census)


Religions:

Christian 42.8% (Catholic 27.1%, Celestial 5%, Methodist 3.2%, other
Protestant 2.2%, other 5.3%), Muslim 24.4%, Vodoun 17.3%, other
15.5% (2002 census)


Languages:

French (official), Fon and Yoruba (most common vernaculars in
south), tribal languages (at least six major ones in north)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 34.7%
male: 47.9%
female: 23.3% (2002 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 7 years
male: 9 years
female: 6 years (2001)


Education expenditures:

4.4% of GDP (2004)


Government
Benin



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Benin
conventional short form: Benin
local long form: Republique du Benin
local short form: Benin
former: Dahomey


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Porto-Novo (official capital)
geographic coordinates: 6 29 N, 2 37 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
note: Cotonou (seat of government)


Administrative divisions:

12 departments; Alibori, Atakora, Atlantique, Borgou, Collines,
Kouffo, Donga, Littoral, Mono, Oueme, Plateau, Zou


Independence:

1 August 1960 (from France)


National holiday:

National Day, 1 August (1960)


Constitution:

adopted by referendum 2 December 1990


Legal system:

based on French civil law and customary law; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Thomas YAYI Boni (since 6 April 2006);
note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government
head of government: President Thomas YAYI Boni (since 6 April 2006)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); runoff election held 19 March 2006
(next to be held in March 2011)
election results: Thomas YAYI Boni elected president; percent of
vote - Thomas YAYI Boni 74.5%, Adrien HOUNGBEDJI 25.5%


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale (83 seats;
members are elected by direct popular vote to serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 31 March 2007 (next to be held by March 2011)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
FCBE 35, ADD 20, PRD 10, other and independents 18


Judicial branch:

Constitutional Court or Cour Constitutionnelle; Supreme Court or
Cour Supreme; High Court of Justice


Political parties and leaders:

Alliance for Dynamic Democracy or ADD; Alliance of Progress Forces
or AFP; African Movement for Democracy and Progress or MADEP [Sefou
FAGBOHOUN]; Benin Renaissance or RB [Rosine SOGLO]; Democratic
Renewal Party or PRD [Adrien HOUNGBEDJI]; Force Cowrie for an
Emerging Benin or FCBE; Impulse for Progress and Democracy or IPD
[Theophile NATA]; Key Force or FC [Lazare SÈHOUÉTO]; Movement for
the People's Alternative or MAP [Olivier CAPO-CHICHI]; Rally for
Democracy and Progress or RDP [Dominique HOUNGNINOU]; Social
Democrat Party or PSD [Bruno AMOUSSOU]; Union for the Relief or UPR
[Issa SALIFOU]; Union for Democracy and National Solidarity or UDS
[Sacca LAFIA]
note: approximately 20 additional minor parties


Political pressure groups and leaders:

other: economic groups; environmentalists; political groups;
teachers' unions and other educational groups


International organization participation:

ACCT, ACP, AfDB, AU, ECOWAS, Entente, FAO, FZ, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA,
MONUC, NAM, OAS (observer), OIC, OIF, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WADB (regional),
WAEMU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Cyrille Segbe OGUIN
chancery: 2124 Kalorama Road NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 232-6656
FAX: [1] (202) 265-1996


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Gayleatha B. BROWN
embassy: Rue Caporal Bernard Anani, Cotonou
mailing address: 01 B. P. 2012, Cotonou
telephone: [229] 21-30-06-50
FAX: [229] 21-30-03-84


Flag description:

two equal horizontal bands of yellow (top) and red (bottom) with a
vertical green band on the hoist side


Economy
Benin



Economy - overview:

The economy of Benin remains underdeveloped and dependent on
subsistence agriculture, cotton production, and regional trade.
Growth in real output has averaged around 5% in the past seven
years, but rapid population growth has offset much of this increase.
Inflation has subsided over the past several years. In order to
raise growth still further, Benin plans to attract more foreign
investment, place more emphasis on tourism, facilitate the
development of new food processing systems and agricultural
products, and encourage new information and communication
technology. Specific projects to improve the business climate by
reforms to the land tenure system, the commercial justice system,
and the financial sector were included in Benin's $307 million
Millennium Challenge Account grant signed in February 2006. The 2001
privatization policy continues in telecommunications, water,
electricity, and agriculture though the government annulled the
privatization of Benin's state cotton company in November 2007 after
the discovery of irregularities in the bidding process. The Paris
Club and bilateral creditors have eased the external debt situation,
with Benin benefiting from a G8 debt reduction announced in July
2005, while pressing for more rapid structural reforms. An
insufficient electrical supply continues to adversely affect Benin's
economic growth though the government recently has taken steps to
increase domestic power production.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$12 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$5.433 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

4.5% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$1,400 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 33.2%
industry: 14.5%
services: 52.3% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

5.38 million (2007 est.)


Unemployment rate:

NA%


Population below poverty line:

37.4% (2007 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 3.1%
highest 10%: 29% (2003)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

36.5 (2003)


Investment (gross fixed):

19.3% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $959.2 million
expenditures: $1.211 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

1.3% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

4.25% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

NA


Stock of money:

$1.324 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$627.2 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$520.6 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

cotton, corn, cassava (tapioca), yams, beans, palm oil, peanuts,
cashews; livestock


Industries:

textiles, food processing, construction materials, cement


Industrial production growth rate:

4.5% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

120 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

595 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

590 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 14.2%
hydro: 85.8%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

9,232 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

6,484 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

16,830 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - proved reserves:

8 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

1.133 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$441 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$586 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

cotton, cashews, shea butter, textiles, palm products, seafood


Exports - partners:

China 24.7%, India 8.2%, Niger 6.6%, Togo 5.4%, Nigeria 5.3%,
Belgium 4.6% (2007)


Imports:

$1.085 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

foodstuffs, capital goods, petroleum products


Imports - partners:

China 44.5%, France 8.2%, US 6.5%, Thailand 6.3%, Malaysia 4.8%
(2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$374.7 million (2006)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$1.209 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$1.2 billion (2007)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note - responsible
authority is the Central Bank of the West African States


Currency code:

XOF


Exchange rates:

Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US dollar - 493.51
(2007), 522.59 (2006), 527.47 (2005), 528.29 (2004), 581.2 (2003)
note: since 1 January 1999, the XOF franc has been pegged to the
euro at a rate of 655.957 XOF francs per euro


Communications
Benin



Telephones - main lines in use:

110,300 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

1.895 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: inadequate; fixed-line network characterized by
aging, deteriorating equipment with fixed-line teledensity stuck at
1 per 100 persons; mobile-cellular telephone subscribership is
increasing
domestic: system of open-wire, microwave radio relay, and cellular
connections; multiple mobile-cellular providers
international: country code - 229; landing point for the SAT-3/WASC
fiber-optic submarine cable that provides connectivity to Europe and
Asia; satellite earth stations - 7 (Intelsat-Atlantic Ocean) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 34, shortwave 1 (2007)


Radios:

660,000 (2000)


Television broadcast stations:

6 (2007)


Televisions:

66,000 (2000)


Internet country code:

.bj


Internet hosts:

848 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

4 (2002)


Internet users:

150,000 (2007)


Transportation
Benin



Airports:

5 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 4
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 2 (2007)


Railways:

total: 758 km
narrow gauge: 758 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 16,000 km
paved: 1,400 km
unpaved: 14,600 km (2006)


Waterways:

150 km (on River Niger along northern border) (2005)


Ports and terminals:

Cotonou


Military
Benin



Military branches:

Benin Armed Forces (FAB): Army (l'Arme de Terre), Benin Navy (Forces
Navales Beninois, FNB), Benin People's Air Force (Force Aerienne
Populaire de Benin, FAPB) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

21 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military service; in
practice, volunteers may be taken at the age of 18; both sexes are
eligible for military service; conscript tour of duty - 18 months
(2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,908,457
females age 16-49: 1,882,421 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,173,742
females age 16-49: 1,162,113 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 97,543
female: 94,008 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.7% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Benin



Disputes - international:

in September 2007, Economic Community of West African States
(ECOWAS) intervened to attempt to resolve the dispute over two
villages along the Benin-Burkina Faso border that remain from 2005
ICJ decision; much of Benin-Niger boundary, including tripoint with
Nigeria, remains undemarcated; in 2005, Nigeria ceded thirteen
villages to Benin, but border relations remain strained by rival
cross-border gang clashes; talks continue between Benin and Togo on
funding the Adjrala hydroelectric dam on the Mona River


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 9,444 (Togo) (2007)


Illicit drugs:

transshipment point used by Nigerian traffickers for narcotics
destined for Western Europe; vulnerable to money laundering due to
poorly enforced financial regulations



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Bermuda

Introduction
Bermuda



Background:

Bermuda was first settled in 1609 by shipwrecked English colonists
headed for Virginia. Tourism to the island to escape North American
winters first developed in Victorian times. Tourism continues to be
important to the island's economy, although international business
has overtaken it in recent years. Bermuda has developed into a
highly successful offshore financial center. Although a referendum
on independence from the UK was soundly defeated in 1995, the
present government has reopened debate on the issue.


Geography
Bermuda



Location:

North America, group of islands in the North Atlantic Ocean, east of
South Carolina (US)


Geographic coordinates:

32 20 N, 64 45 W


Map references:

North America


Area:

total: 53.3 sq km
land: 53.3 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

about one-third the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

103 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm


Climate:

subtropical; mild, humid; gales, strong winds common in winter


Terrain:

low hills separated by fertile depressions


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Town Hill 76 m


Natural resources:

limestone, pleasant climate fostering tourism


Land use:

arable land: 20%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 80% (55% developed, 45% rural/open space) (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

hurricanes (June to November)


Environment - current issues:

sustainable development


Geography - note:

consists of about 138 coral islands and islets with ample rainfall,
but no rivers or freshwater lakes; some land was leased by US
Government from 1941 to 1995


People
Bermuda



Population:

66,536 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 18% (male 6,055/female 5,954)
15-64 years: 69.1% (male 22,795/female 23,189)
65 years and over: 12.8% (male 3,728/female 4,815) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 41 years
male: 40.1 years
female: 41.8 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.546% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

11.15 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

7.98 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

2.28 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.02 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.77 male(s)/female
total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 7.87 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 9.31 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 6.4 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 78.3 years
male: 76.15 years
female: 80.48 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.88 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.297% (2005)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

163 (2005)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

392 (2005)


Nationality:

noun: Bermudian(s)
adjective: Bermudian


Ethnic groups:

black 54.8%, white 34.1%, mixed 6.4%, other races 4.3%, unspecified
0.4% (2000 census)


Religions:

Anglican 23%, Roman Catholic 15%, African Methodist Episcopal 11%,
other Protestant 18%, other 12%, unaffiliated 6%, unspecified 1%,
none 14% (2000 census)


Languages:

English (official), Portuguese


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 98%
male: 98%
female: 99% (2005 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 13 years
male: 13 years
female: 14 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

1.2% of GDP (2006)


Government
Bermuda



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Bermuda
former: Somers Islands


Dependency status:

overseas territory of the UK


Government type:

parliamentary; self-governing territory


Capital:

name: Hamilton
geographic coordinates: 32 17 N, 64 47 W
time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins second Sunday in March; ends
first Sunday in November


Administrative divisions:

9 parishes and 2 municipalities*; Devonshire, Hamilton, Hamilton*,
Paget, Pembroke, Saint George*, Saint George's, Sandys, Smith's,
Southampton, Warwick


Independence:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


National holiday:

Bermuda Day, 24 May


Constitution:

8 June 1968; amended 1989 and 2003


Legal system:

English law


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by Governor Sir Richard GOZNEY (since 12 December 2007)
head of government: Premier Ewart BROWN (since 30 October 2006);
Deputy Premier Paula COX
cabinet: Cabinet nominated by the premier, appointed by the governor
elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor appointed by the
monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the majority
party or the leader of the majority coalition is usually appointed
premier by the governor


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (11 seats; members
appointed by the governor, the premier, and the opposition) and the
House of Assembly (36 seats; members are elected by popular vote to
serve up to five-year terms)
elections: last general election held 18 December 2007 (next to be
held not later than 2012)
election results: percent of vote by party - PLP 52.5%, UBP 47.3%;
seats by party - PLP 22, UBP 14


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court; Court of Appeal; Magistrate Courts


Political parties and leaders:

Progressive Labor Party or PLP [Ewart BROWN]; United Bermuda Party
or UBP [Kim SWAN]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Bermuda Employer's Union [Eddie SAINTS]; Bermuda Industrial Union or
BIU [Derrick BURGESS]; Bermuda Public Services Union or BPSU [Ed
BALL]; Bermuda Union of Teachers [Michael CHARLES]


International organization participation:

Caricom (associate), Interpol (subbureau), IOC, ITUC, UPU, WCO, WFTU


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Consul General Gregory W. SLAYTON
consulate(s) general: Crown Hill, 16 Middle Road, Devonshire DVO3
mailing address: P. O. Box HM325, Hamilton HMBX; American Consulate
General Hamilton, US Department of State, 5300 Hamilton Place,
Washington, DC 20520-5300
telephone: [1] (441) 295-1342
FAX: [1] (441) 295-1592, [1] (441) 296-9233


Flag description:

red, with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and
the Bermudian coat of arms (white and green shield with a red lion
holding a scrolled shield showing the sinking of the ship Sea
Venture off Bermuda in 1609) centered on the outer half of the flag


Economy
Bermuda



Economy - overview:

Bermuda enjoys the third highest per capita income in the world,
more than 50% higher than that of the US. Its economy is primarily
based on providing financial services for international business and
luxury facilities for tourists. A number of reinsurance companies
relocated to the island following the 11 September 2001 attacks and
again after Hurricane Katrina in August 2005, contributing to the
expansion of an already robust international business sector.
Bermuda's tourism industry - which derives over 80% of its visitors
from the US - continues to struggle but remains the island's number
two industry. Most capital equipment and food must be imported.
Bermuda's industrial sector is small, although construction
continues to be important; the average cost of a house in June 2003
had risen to $976,000. Agriculture is limited with only 20% of the
land being arable.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$4.5 billion (2004 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$NA


GDP - real growth rate:

4.6% (2004 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$69,900 (2004 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 1%
industry: 10%
services: 89% (2002 est.)


Labor force:

38,360 (2004)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture and fishing 3%, laborers 17%, clerical 19%, professional
and technical 21%, administrative and managerial 15%, sales 7%,
services 19% (2004 est.)


Unemployment rate:

2.1% (2004 est.)


Population below poverty line:

19% (2000)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $738 million
expenditures: $665 million (FY04/05)


Fiscal year:

1 April - 31 March


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.8% (November 2005)


Agriculture - products:

bananas, vegetables, citrus, flowers; dairy products, honey


Industries:

international business, tourism, light manufacturing


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

675.6 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

619.8 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

4,566 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

4,378 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Exports:

$763 million (2006)


Exports - commodities:

reexports of pharmaceuticals


Exports - partners:

Spain 13.8%, Germany 11.7%, Switzerland 8.8%, Denmark 6.6%, UK 6%
(2007)


Imports:

$1.162 billion (2006)


Imports - commodities:

clothing, fuels, machinery and transport equipment, construction
materials, chemicals, food and live animals


Imports - partners:

South Korea 36.4%, US 15.7%, Germany 13.2%, Italy 11.8% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$90,000 (2004)


Debt - external:

$160 million (FY99/00)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$NA


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$2.125 billion (2005)


Currency (code):

Bermudian dollar (BMD)


Currency code:

BMD


Exchange rates:

Bermudian dollars (BMD) per US dollar - 1.0000 (fixed rate pegged to
the US dollar)


Communications
Bermuda



Telephones - main lines in use:

57,700 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

60,100 (2006)


Telephone system:

general assessment: good
domestic: fully automatic digital telephone system; fiber optic
trunk lines
international: country code - 1-441; landing point for the
Atlantica-1 telecommunications submarine cable that extends from the
US to Brazil; satellite earth stations - 3 (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 5, FM 3, shortwave 0 (2005)


Radios:

82,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

3 (2005)


Televisions:

66,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.bm


Internet hosts:

1,628 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

20 (2000)


Internet users:

48,000 (2007)


Transportation
Bermuda



Airports:

1 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 447 km
paved: 447 km
note: public roads - 225 km; private roads - 222 km (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 137
by type: bulk carrier 23, chemical tanker 3, container 22, liquefied
gas 33, passenger 24, passenger/cargo 5, petroleum tanker 18,
refrigerated cargo 9
foreign-owned: 115 (Australia 1, China 10, France 1, Germany 22,
Greece 9, Hong Kong 4, Ireland 1, Israel 3, Japan 2, Nigeria 11,
Norway 5, Sweden 20, UK 3, US 23)
registered in other countries: 50 (Bahamas 12, Marshall Islands 4,
Philippines 34) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Hamilton, Saint George


Military
Bermuda



Military branches:

Bermuda Regiment (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18-23 years of age; eligible men required to register for
conscription as needed into the Bermuda Regiment, which is largely
voluntary; term of service 39 months (2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 15,623 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 12,682 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 426
female: 445 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0.11% of GDP (2005 est.)


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of the UK


Transnational Issues
Bermuda



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Bhutan

Introduction
Bhutan



Background:

In 1865, Britain and Bhutan signed the Treaty of Sinchulu, under
which Bhutan would receive an annual subsidy in exchange for ceding
some border land to British India. Under British influence, a
monarchy was set up in 1907; three years later, a treaty was signed
whereby the British agreed not to interfere in Bhutanese internal
affairs and Bhutan allowed Britain to direct its foreign affairs.
This role was assumed by independent India after 1947. Two years
later, a formal Indo-Bhutanese accord returned the areas of Bhutan
annexed by the British, formalized the annual subsidies the country
received, and defined India's responsibilities in defense and
foreign relations. A refugee issue of over 100,000 Bhutanese in
Nepal remains unresolved; 90% of the refugees are housed in seven
United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR)
camps. In March 2005, King Jigme Singye WANGCHUCK unveiled the
government's draft constitution - which would introduce major
democratic reforms - and pledged to hold a national referendum for
its approval. In December 2006, the King abdicated the throne to his
son, Jigme Khesar Namgyel WANGCHUCK, in order to give him experience
as head of state before the democratic transition. In early 2007,
India and Bhutan renegotiated their treaty to allow Bhutan greater
autonomy in conducting its foreign policy, although Thimphu
continues to coordinate policy decisions in this area with New
Delhi. In July 2007, seven ministers of Bhutan's ten-member cabinet
resigned to join the political process, and the cabinet acted as a
caretaker regime until democratic elections for seats to the
country's first parliament were completed in March 2008. The king
ratified the country's first constitution in July 2008.


Geography
Bhutan



Location:

Southern Asia, between China and India


Geographic coordinates:

27 30 N, 90 30 E


Map references:

Asia


Area:

total: 47,000 sq km
land: 47,000 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

about one-half the size of Indiana


Land boundaries:

total: 1,075 km
border countries: China 470 km, India 605 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

varies; tropical in southern plains; cool winters and hot summers in
central valleys; severe winters and cool summers in Himalayas


Terrain:

mostly mountainous with some fertile valleys and savanna


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Drangme Chhu 97 m
highest point: Kula Kangri 7,553 m


Natural resources:

timber, hydropower, gypsum, calcium carbonate


Land use:

arable land: 2.3%
permanent crops: 0.43%
other: 97.27% (2005)


Irrigated land:

400 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

95 cu km (1987)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.43 cu km/yr (5%/1%/94%)
per capita: 199 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

violent storms from the Himalayas are the source of the country's
name, which translates as Land of the Thunder Dragon; frequent
landslides during the rainy season


Environment - current issues:

soil erosion; limited access to potable water


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes
signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea


Geography - note:

landlocked; strategic location between China and India; controls
several key Himalayan mountain passes


People
Bhutan



Population:

682,321
note: the Factbook population estimate is consistent with the first
modern census of Bhutan, conducted in 2005; previous Factbook
population estimates for this country, which were on the order of
three times the total population reported here, were based on
Bhutanese government publications that did not include the census
(July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 30.8% (male 107,360/female 103,093)
15-64 years: 63.7% (male 231,323/female 203,649)
65 years and over: 5.4% (male 19,561/female 17,335) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 23.5 years
male: 24.1 years
female: 22.8 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.301% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

20.56 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

7.54 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.14 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 1.13 male(s)/female
total population: 1.1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 51.92 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 53.1 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 50.69 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 65.53 years
male: 64.75 years
female: 66.35 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.48 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

less than 0.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

fewer than 100 (1999 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: intermediate
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: malaria
water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Bhutanese (singular and plural)
adjective: Bhutanese


Ethnic groups:

Bhote 50%, ethnic Nepalese 35% (includes Lhotsampas - one of several
Nepalese ethnic groups), indigenous or migrant tribes 15%


Religions:

Lamaistic Buddhist 75%, Indian- and Nepalese-influenced Hinduism 25%


Languages:

Dzongkha (official), Bhotes speak various Tibetan dialects, Nepalese
speak various Nepalese dialects


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 47%
male: 60%
female: 34% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 10 years
male: 11 years
female: 10 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

7% of GDP (2005)


Government
Bhutan



Country name:

conventional long form: Kingdom of Bhutan
conventional short form: Bhutan
local long form: Druk Gyalkhap
local short form: Druk Yul


Government type:

in transition to constitutional monarchy; special treaty
relationship with India


Capital:

name: Thimphu
geographic coordinates: 27 29 N, 89 36 E
time difference: UTC+6 (11 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

20 districts (dzongkhag, singular and plural); Bumthang, Chhukha,
Chirang, Daga, Gasa, Geylegphug, Ha, Lhuntshi, Mongar, Paro,
Pemagatsel, Punakha, Samchi, Samdrup Jongkhar, Shemgang, Tashigang,
Tashi Yangtse, Thimphu, Tongsa, Wangdi Phodrang


Independence:

1907 (became a unified kingdom under its first hereditary king)


National holiday:

National Day (Ugyen WANGCHUCK became first hereditary king), 17
December (1907)


Constitution:

ratified 23 July 2008


Legal system:

based on Indian law and English common law; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: King Jigme Khesar Namgyel WANGCHUCK (since 14
December 2006); note - King Jigme Singye WANGCHUCK abdicated the
throne on 14 December 2006 and his son immediately succeeded him
head of government: Prime Minister Jigme THINLEY (since 9 April 2008)
cabinet: Council of Ministers (Lhengye Shungtsog) nominated by the
monarch, approved by the National Assembly; members serve fixed,
five-year terms; note - there is also a Royal Advisory Council
(Lodoi Tsokde), members nominated by the monarch
elections: the monarch is hereditary, but democratic reforms in July
1998 grant the National Assembly authority to remove the monarch
with two-thirds vote; election of a new National Assembly occurred
in March 2008; the leader of the majority party is nominated as the
prime minister


Legislative branch:

new bicameral Parliament consists of the non-partisan National
Council (25 seats; 20 members elected by each of the 20 electoral
districts (dzongkhags) for four-year terms and 5 members nominated
by the King); and the National Assembly (47 seats; members elected
by direct, popular vote for five-year terms)
elections: National Council elections last held on 31 December 2007
and 29 January 2008 (next to be held by December 2012); National
Assembly elections last held on 24 March 2008 (next to be held by
March 2013)
election results: National Council - NA; National Assembly - percent
of vote by party - DPT 67%, PDP 33%; seats by party - DPT 45, PDP 2


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court of Appeal (the monarch); High Court (judges appointed
by the monarch); note - the draft constitution establishes a Supreme
Court, which will serve as chief court of appeal


Political parties and leaders:

Bhutan Peace and Prosperity Party (Druk Phuensum Tshogpa) or DPT
[Jigme THINLEY]; People's Democratic Party or PDP [Sangay NGEDUP]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

United Front for Democracy (exiled)
other: Buddhist clergy; ethnic Nepalese organizations leading
militant antigovernment campaign; Indian merchant community


International organization participation:

ADB, BIMSTEC, CP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IMF,
Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, NAM,
OPCW, SAARC, SACEP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO,
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none; note - the Permanent Mission to the UN for Bhutan has consular
jurisdiction in the US; address: 763 First Avenue, New York, NY
10017; telephone [1] (212) 682-2268; FAX [1] (212) 661-0551
consulate(s) general: New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

the US and Bhutan have no formal diplomatic relations, although
informal contact is maintained between the Bhutanese and US Embassy
in New Delhi (India)


Flag description:

divided diagonally from the lower hoist-side corner; the upper
triangle is yellow and the lower triangle is orange; centered along
the dividing line is a large black and white dragon facing away from
the hoist side


Economy
Bhutan



Economy - overview:

The economy, one of the world's smallest and least developed, is
based on agriculture and forestry, which provide the main livelihood
for more than 60% of the population. Agriculture consists largely of
subsistence farming and animal husbandry. Rugged mountains dominate
the terrain and make the building of roads and other infrastructure
difficult and expensive. The economy is closely aligned with India's
through strong trade and monetary links and dependence on India's
financial assistance. The industrial sector is technologically
backward, with most production of the cottage industry type. Most
development projects, such as road construction, rely on Indian
migrant labor. Model education, social, and environment programs are
underway with support from multilateral development organizations.
Each economic program takes into account the government's desire to
protect the country's environment and cultural traditions. For
example, the government, in its cautious expansion of the tourist
sector, encourages visits by upscale, environmentally conscientious
tourists. Detailed controls and uncertain policies in areas such as
industrial licensing, trade, labor, and finance continue to hamper
foreign investment. Hydropower exports to India had a major impact
on growth in 2007.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$3.359 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$1.308 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

22.4% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$5,200 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 22.3%
industry: 37.9%
services: 39.8% (2006)


Labor force:

NA
note: major shortage of skilled labor


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 63%
industry: 6%
services: 31% (2004 est.)


Unemployment rate:

2.5% (2004)


Population below poverty line:

31.7% (2003)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $272 million
expenditures: $350 million
note: the government of India finances nearly three-fifths of
Bhutan's budget expenditures (2005)


Fiscal year:

1 July - 30 June


Public debt:

81.4% of GDP (2004)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

4.9% (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

14% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$381.1 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$220.3 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$169.9 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

rice, corn, root crops, citrus, foodgrains; dairy products, eggs


Industries:

cement, wood products, processed fruits, alcoholic beverages,
calcium carbide, tourism


Industrial production growth rate:

9.3% (1996 est.)


Electricity - production:

4.475 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

528.8 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - exports:

3.644 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

11 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 0.1%
hydro: 99.9%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

1,250 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

1,152 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

$116 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$350 million f.o.b. (2006)


Exports - commodities:

electricity (to India), cardamom, gypsum, timber, handicrafts,
cement, fruit, precious stones, spices


Exports - partners:

India 58.6%, Hong Kong 30.1%, Bangladesh 7.3% (2007)


Imports:

$320 million c.i.f. (2006)


Imports - commodities:

fuel and lubricants, grain, aircraft, machinery and parts, vehicles,
fabrics, rice


Imports - partners:

India 74.5%, Japan 7.4%, Sweden 3.2% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$941.2 million; note - substantial aid from India (2006)


Debt - external:

$713.3 million (2006)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

ngultrum (BTN); Indian rupee (INR)


Currency code:

BTN; INR


Exchange rates:

ngultrum (BTN) per US dollar - 41.487 (2007), 45.279 (2006), 44.101
(2005), 45.317 (2004), 46.583 (2003)
note: the ngultrum is pegged to the Indian rupee


Communications
Bhutan



Telephones - main lines in use:

29,900 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

149,400 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: urban towns and district headquarters have
telecommunications services
domestic: very low teledensity; domestic service is very poor
especially in rural areas; wireless service available since 2003
international: country code - 975; international telephone and
telegraph service via landline and microwave relay through India;
satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 0, FM 9, shortwave 1 (2007)


Radios:

37,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (2007)


Televisions:

11,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.bt


Internet hosts:

9,046 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

NA


Internet users:

40,000 (2007)


Transportation
Bhutan



Airports:

2 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 8,050 km
paved: 4,991 km
unpaved: 3,059 km (2003)


Military
Bhutan



Military branches:

Royal Bhutan Army (includes Royal Bodyguard and Royal Bhutan Police)
(2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service; no conscription
(2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 190,104
females age 16-49: 167,289 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 146,063
females age 16-49: 131,193 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 7,847
female: 7,530 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Bhutan



Disputes - international:

Bhutan cooperates with India to expel Indian Nagaland separatists;
lacking any treaty describing the boundary, Bhutan and China
continue negotiations to establish a common boundary alignment to
resolve territorial disputes arising from substantial cartographic
discrepancies, the largest of which lie in Bhutan's northwest and
along the Chumbi salient



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Bolivia

Introduction
Bolivia



Background:

Bolivia, named after independence fighter Simon BOLIVAR, broke away
from Spanish rule in 1825; much of its subsequent history has
consisted of a series of nearly 200 coups and countercoups.
Democratic civilian rule was established in 1982, but leaders have
faced difficult problems of deep-seated poverty, social unrest, and
illegal drug production. In December 2005, Bolivians elected
Movement Toward Socialism leader Evo MORALES president - by the
widest margin of any leader since the restoration of civilian rule
in 1982 - after he ran on a promise to change the country's
traditional political class and empower the nation's poor majority.
However, since taking office, his controversial strategies have
exacerbated racial and economic tensions between the Amerindian
populations of the Andean west and the non-indigenous communities of
the eastern lowlands.


Geography
Bolivia



Location:

Central South America, southwest of Brazil


Geographic coordinates:

17 00 S, 65 00 W


Map references:

South America


Area:

total: 1,098,580 sq km
land: 1,084,390 sq km
water: 14,190 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly less than three times the size of Montana


Land boundaries:

total: 6,940 km
border countries: Argentina 832 km, Brazil 3,423 km, Chile 860 km,
Paraguay 750 km, Peru 1,075 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

varies with altitude; humid and tropical to cold and semiarid


Terrain:

rugged Andes Mountains with a highland plateau (Altiplano), hills,
lowland plains of the Amazon Basin


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Rio Paraguay 90 m
highest point: Nevado Sajama 6,542 m


Natural resources:

tin, natural gas, petroleum, zinc, tungsten, antimony, silver, iron,
lead, gold, timber, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 2.78%
permanent crops: 0.19%
other: 97.03% (2005)


Irrigated land:

1,320 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

622.5 cu km (2000)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 1.44 cu km/yr (13%/7%/81%)
per capita: 157 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

flooding in the northeast (March-April)


Environment - current issues:

the clearing of land for agricultural purposes and the international
demand for tropical timber are contributing to deforestation; soil
erosion from overgrazing and poor cultivation methods (including
slash-and-burn agriculture); desertification; loss of biodiversity;
industrial pollution of water supplies used for drinking and
irrigation


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification, Marine Life
Conservation


Geography - note:

landlocked; shares control of Lago Titicaca, world's highest
navigable lake (elevation 3,805 m), with Peru


People
Bolivia



Population:

9,247,816 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 33.5% (male 1,580,887/female 1,519,960)
15-64 years: 61.8% (male 2,800,457/female 2,912,375)
65 years and over: 4.7% (male 192,701/female 241,436) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 22.6 years
male: 21.9 years
female: 23.3 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.383% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

22.31 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

7.35 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-1.14 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.96 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.8 male(s)/female
total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 49.09 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 52.54 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 45.48 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 66.53 years
male: 63.86 years
female: 69.33 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.67 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.1% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

4,900 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 500 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: dengue fever, malaria, and yellow fever
water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Bolivian(s)
adjective: Bolivian


Ethnic groups:

Quechua 30%, mestizo (mixed white and Amerindian ancestry) 30%,
Aymara 25%, white 15%


Religions:

Roman Catholic 95%, Protestant (Evangelical Methodist) 5%


Languages:

Spanish 60.7% (official), Quechua 21.2% (official), Aymara 14.6%
(official), foreign languages 2.4%, other 1.2% (2001 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 86.7%
male: 93.1%
female: 80.7% (2001 census)


Education expenditures:

6.4% of GDP (2003)


Government
Bolivia



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Bolivia
conventional short form: Bolivia
local long form: Republica de Bolivia
local short form: Bolivia


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: La Paz (administrative capital)
geographic coordinates: 16 30 S, 68 09 W
time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
note: Sucre (constitutional capital)


Administrative divisions:

9 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento); Beni,
Chuquisaca, Cochabamba, La Paz, Oruro, Pando, Potosi, Santa Cruz,
Tarija


Independence:

6 August 1825 (from Spain)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 6 August (1825)


Constitution:

2 February 1967; revised in August 1994; possible referendum on new
constitution to be held in 2008


Legal system:

based on Spanish law and Napoleonic Code; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age, universal and compulsory (married); 21 years of
age, universal and compulsory (single)


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Juan Evo MORALES Ayma (since 22 January
2006); Vice President Alvaro GARCIA Linera (since 22 January 2006);
note - the president is both chief of state and head of government
head of government: President Juan Evo MORALES Ayma (since 22
January 2006); Vice President Alvaro GARCIA Linera (since 22 January
2006)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president
elections: president and vice president elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for a single five-year term; election last held 18
December 2005 (next to be held in 2010)
election results: Juan Evo MORALES Ayma elected president; percent
of vote - Juan Evo MORALES Ayma 53.7%; Jorge Fernando QUIROGA
Ramirez 28.6%; Samuel DORIA MEDINA Arana 7.8%; Michiaki NAGATANI
Morishit 6.5%; Felipe QUISPE Huanca 2.2%; Guildo ANGULA Cabrera 0.7%


Legislative branch:

bicameral National Congress or Congreso Nacional consists of Chamber
of Senators or Camara de Senadores (27 seats; members are elected by
proportional representation from party lists to serve five-year
terms) and Chamber of Deputies or Camara de Diputados (130 seats; 70
members are directly elected from their districts and 60 are elected
by proportional representation from party lists to serve five-year
terms)
elections: Chamber of Senators and Chamber of Deputies - last held
18 December 2005 (next to be held in 2010)
election results: Chamber of Senators - percent of vote by party -
NA; seats by party - PODEMOS 13, MAS 12, UN 1, MNR 1; Chamber of
Deputies - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - MAS 73,
PODEMOS 43, UN 8, MNR 6


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (judges appointed for 10-year terms
by National Congress); District Courts (one in each department);
provincial and local courts (to try minor cases); Constitutional
Tribunal (five primary or titulares and five alternate or suplente
magistrates appointed by Congress; to rule on constitutional
issues); National Electoral Court (six members elected by Congress,
Supreme Court, the President, and the political party with the
highest vote in the last election for 4-year terms)


Political parties and leaders:

Free Bolivia Movement or MBL [Franz BARRIOS]; Movement Toward
Socialism or MAS [Juan Evo MORALES Ayma]; Movement Without Fear or
MSM [Juan DEL GRANADO]; National Revolutionary Movement or MNR
[Mirta QUEVEDO]; National Unity [Samuel DORIA MEDINA Arana]; Poder
Democratico Nacional or PODEMOS [Jorge Fernando QUIROGA Ramirez];
Social Alliance [Rene JOAQUINO]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Sole Confederation of Campesino Workers of Bolivia or CSUTCB
other: Cocalero groups; indigenous organizations; labor unions


International organization participation:

CAN, FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent),
ITSO, ITU, LAES, LAIA, Mercosur (associate), MIGA, MINURCAT,
MINUSTAH, MONUC, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN, UNASUR,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOCI,
UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Erika DUENAS
chancery: 3014 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 483-4410
FAX: [1] (202) 328-3712
consulate(s) general: Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New York,
Oklahoma City, San Francisco, Seattle, Washington, DC


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Krishna URS
embassy: Avenida Arce 2780, Casilla 425, La Paz
mailing address: P. O. Box 425, La Paz; APO AA 34032
telephone: [591] (2) 216-8000
FAX: [591] (2) 216-8111


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of red (top), yellow, and green with
the coat of arms centered on the yellow band
note: similar to the flag of Ghana, which has a large black
five-pointed star centered in the yellow band


Economy
Bolivia



Economy - overview:

Bolivia is one of the poorest and least developed countries in Latin
America. Following a disastrous economic crisis during the early
1980s, reforms spurred private investment, stimulated economic
growth, and cut poverty rates in the 1990s. The period 2003-05 was
characterized by political instability, racial tensions, and violent
protests against plans - subsequently abandoned - to export
Bolivia's newly discovered natural gas reserves to large northern
hemisphere markets. In 2005, the government passed a controversial
hydrocarbons law that imposed significantly higher royalties and
required foreign firms then operating under risk-sharing contracts
to surrender all production to the state energy company, which was
made the sole exporter of natural gas. The law also required that
the state energy company regain control over the five companies that
were privatized during the 1990s - a process that is still underway.
In 2006, higher earnings for mining and hydrocarbons exports pushed
the current account surplus to about 12% of GDP and the government's
higher tax take produced a fiscal surplus after years of large
deficits. Debt relief from the G8 - announced in 2005 - also has
significantly reduced Bolivia's public sector debt burden. Private
investment as a share of GDP, however, remains among the lowest in
Latin America, and inflation reached double-digit levels in 2007.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$39.75 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$13.19 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

4.6% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$4,400 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 14.5%
industry: 30.5%
services: 55% (2006 est.)


Labor force:

4.377 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 40%
industry: 17%
services: 43% (2006 est.)


Unemployment rate:

7.5% in urban areas; widespread underemployment (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

60% (2006 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 0.3%
highest 10%: 47.2% (2002)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

59.2 (2006)


Investment (gross fixed):

16.1% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $5.723 billion
expenditures: $5.495 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

46.3% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

8.7% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

6.5% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

12.86% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$3.032 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$4.729 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$4.759 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

soybeans, coffee, coca, cotton, corn, sugarcane, rice, potatoes;
timber


Industries:

mining, smelting, petroleum, food and beverages, tobacco,
handicrafts, clothing


Industrial production growth rate:

1.1% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

5.668 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

5.092 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 44.4%
hydro: 54%
nuclear: 0%
other: 1.5% (2001)


Oil - production:

61,790 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

31,500 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

18,500 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - imports:

8,600 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - proved reserves:

465 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

14.7 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

3 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

11.7 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

750.4 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$1.796 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$4.49 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

natural gas, soybeans and soy products, crude petroleum, zinc ore,
tin


Exports - partners:

Brazil 46%, US 9.8%, Japan 7.6%, Argentina 5.8%, South Korea 4.8%,
Peru 4.1% (2007)


Imports:

$3.249 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

petroleum products, plastics, paper, aircraft and aircraft parts,
prepared foods, automobiles, insecticides, soybeans


Imports - partners:

Brazil 29.9%, Argentina 16.2%, Chile 10.5%, US 9.8%, Peru 8.1% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$582.9 million (2005 est.)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$5.318 billion (31 October 2007)


Debt - external:

$4.495 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$6.88 billion (31 December 2004)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$2.2 billion (2005)


Currency (code):

boliviano (BOB)


Currency code:

BOB


Exchange rates:

bolivianos (BOB) per US dollar - 7.8616 (2007), 8.0159 (2006),
8.0661 (2005), 7.9363 (2004), 7.6592 (2003)


Communications
Bolivia



Telephones - main lines in use:

678,200 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

3.254 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: privatization begun in 1995; reliability has
steadily improved; new subscribers face bureaucratic difficulties;
most telephones are concentrated in La Paz and other cities;
mobile-cellular telephone use expanding rapidly; fixed-line
teledensity of 7 per 100 persons; mobile-cellular telephone density
of 35 per 100 persons
domestic: primary trunk system, which is being expanded, employs
digital microwave radio relay; some areas are served by fiber-optic
cable; mobile cellular systems are being expanded
international: country code - 591; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 171, FM 73, shortwave 77 (1999)


Radios:

5.25 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

48 (1997)


Televisions:

900,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.bo


Internet hosts:

68,428 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

9 (2000)


Internet users:

1 million (2007)


Transportation
Bolivia



Airports:

1,061 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 16
over 3,047 m: 4
2,438 to 3,047 m: 4
1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
914 to 1,523 m: 3 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 1,045
over 3,047 m: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 4
1,524 to 2,437 m: 57
914 to 1,523 m: 183
under 914 m: 800 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 4,860 km; liquid petroleum gas 47 km; oil 2,475 km; refined
products 1,589 km; unknown (oil/water) 247 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 3,504 km
narrow gauge: 3,504 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 62,479 km
paved: 3,749 km
unpaved: 58,730 km (2004)


Waterways:

10,000 km (commercially navigable) (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 23
by type: bulk carrier 1, cargo 11, carrier 1, passenger/cargo 1,
petroleum tanker 7, refrigerated cargo 1, specialized tanker 1
foreign-owned: 7 (Bahamas 1, China 1, Iran 1, Singapore 1, Syria 2,
Taiwan 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Puerto Aguirre (inland port on the Paraguay/Parana waterway at the
Bolivia/Brazil border); Bolivia has free port privileges in maritime
ports in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, and Paraguay


Military
Bolivia



Military branches:

Bolivian Armed Forces: Bolivian Army (Ejercito Boliviano), Bolivian
Navy (Armada Boliviana; includes marines), Bolivian Air Force
(Fuerza Aerea Boliviana, FAB) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for 12-month compulsory military service; when
annual number of volunteers falls short of goal, compulsory
recruitment is effected, including conscription of boys as young as
14; 15-19 years of age for voluntary premilitary service, provides
exemption from further military service (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,295,746
females age 16-49: 2,366,828 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,600,219
females age 16-49: 1,815,514 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 107,051
female: 103,620 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.9% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Bolivia



Disputes - international:

Chile and Peru rebuff Bolivia's reactivated claim to restore the
Atacama corridor, ceded to Chile in 1884, but Chile offers instead
unrestricted but not sovereign maritime access through Chile for
Bolivian natural gas and other commodities; an accord placed the
long-disputed Isla Suárez/Ilha de Guajará-Mirim, a fluvial island on
the Río Mamoré, under Bolivian administration in 1958, but
sovereignty remains in dispute


Illicit drugs:

world's third-largest cultivator of coca (after Colombia and Peru)
with an estimated 29,500 hectares under cultivation in 2007, a
slight increase over 2006; third largest producer of cocaine,
estimated at 120 metric tons of potential pure cocaine in 2007;
transit country for Peruvian and Colombian cocaine destined for
Brazil, Argentina, Chile, Paraguay, and Europe; cultivation
generally increasing since 2000, despite eradication and alternative
crop programs; weak border controls; some money-laundering activity
related to narcotics trade, especially along the borders with Brazil
and Paraguay; major cocaine consumption (2007)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Bosnia and Herzegovina

Introduction
Bosnia and Herzegovina



Background:

Bosnia and Herzegovina's declaration of sovereignty in October 1991
was followed by a declaration of independence from the former
Yugoslavia on 3 March 1992 after a referendum boycotted by ethnic
Serbs. The Bosnian Serbs - supported by neighboring Serbia and
Montenegro - responded with armed resistance aimed at partitioning
the republic along ethnic lines and joining Serb-held areas to form
a "Greater Serbia." In March 1994, Bosniaks and Croats reduced the
number of warring factions from three to two by signing an agreement
creating a joint Bosniak/Croat Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
On 21 November 1995, in Dayton, Ohio, the warring parties initialed
a peace agreement that brought to a halt three years of interethnic
civil strife (the final agreement was signed in Paris on 14 December
1995). The Dayton Peace Accords retained Bosnia and Herzegovina's
international boundaries and created a joint multi-ethnic and
democratic government charged with conducting foreign, diplomatic,
and fiscal policy. Also recognized was a second tier of government
comprised of two entities roughly equal in size: the Bosniak/Croat
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Bosnian Serb-led
Republika Srpska (RS). The Federation and RS governments were
charged with overseeing most government functions. The Office of the
High Representative (OHR) was established to oversee the
implementation of the civilian aspects of the agreement. In 1995-96,
a NATO-led international peacekeeping force (IFOR) of 60,000 troops
served in Bosnia to implement and monitor the military aspects of
the agreement. IFOR was succeeded by a smaller, NATO-led
Stabilization Force (SFOR) whose mission was to deter renewed
hostilities. European Union peacekeeping troops (EUFOR) replaced
SFOR in December 2004; their mission is to maintain peace and
stability throughout the country. EUFOR's mission changed from
peacekeeping to civil policing in October 2007, with its presence
reduced from nearly 7,000 to 2,500 troops.


Geography
Bosnia and Herzegovina



Location:

Southeastern Europe, bordering the Adriatic Sea and Croatia


Geographic coordinates:

44 00 N, 18 00 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 51,209.2 sq km
land: 51,197 sq km
water: 12.2 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than West Virginia


Land boundaries:

total: 1,538 km
border countries: Croatia 932 km, Montenegro 249 km, Serbia 357 km


Coastline:

20 km


Maritime claims:

no data available


Climate:

hot summers and cold winters; areas of high elevation have short,
cool summers and long, severe winters; mild, rainy winters along
coast


Terrain:

mountains and valleys


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Adriatic Sea 0 m
highest point: Maglic 2,386 m


Natural resources:

coal, iron ore, bauxite, copper, lead, zinc, chromite, cobalt,
manganese, nickel, clay, gypsum, salt, sand, forests, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 19.61%
permanent crops: 1.89%
other: 78.5% (2005)


Irrigated land:

30 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

37.5 cu km (2003)


Natural hazards:

destructive earthquakes


Environment - current issues:

air pollution from metallurgical plants; sites for disposing of
urban waste are limited; water shortages and destruction of
infrastructure because of the 1992-95 civil strife; deforestation


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

within Bosnia and Herzegovina's recognized borders, the country is
divided into a joint Bosniak/Croat Federation (about 51% of the
territory) and the Bosnian Serb-led Republika Srpska or RS (about
49% of the territory); the region called Herzegovina is contiguous
to Croatia and Montenegro, and traditionally has been settled by an
ethnic Croat majority in the west and an ethnic Serb majority in the
east


People
Bosnia and Herzegovina



Population:

4,590,310 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 14.7% (male 347,679/female 326,091)
15-64 years: 70.6% (male 1,634,053/female 1,606,341)
65 years and over: 14.7% (male 277,504/female 398,642) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 39.4 years
male: 38.2 years
female: 40.5 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.666% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

8.82 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

8.54 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

6.38 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.07 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.07 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.7 male(s)/female
total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 9.34 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 10.71 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 7.87 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 78.33 years
male: 74.74 years
female: 82.19 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.24 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

less than 0.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

900 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

100 (2001 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Bosnian(s), Herzegovinian(s)
adjective: Bosnian, Herzegovinian


Ethnic groups:

Bosniak 48%, Serb 37.1%, Croat 14.3%, other 0.6% (2000)
note: Bosniak has replaced Muslim as an ethnic term in part to avoid
confusion with the religious term Muslim - an adherent of Islam


Religions:

Muslim 40%, Orthodox 31%, Roman Catholic 15%, other 14%


Languages:

Bosnian, Croatian, Serbian


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 96.7%
male: 99%
female: 94.4% (2000 est.)


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Bosnia and Herzegovina



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Bosnia and Herzegovina
local long form: none
local short form: Bosna i Hercegovina
former: People's Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Socialist
Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina


Government type:

emerging federal democratic republic


Capital:

name: Sarajevo
geographic coordinates: 43 52 N, 18 25 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

2 first-order administrative divisions and 1 internationally
supervised district* - Brcko district (Brcko Distrikt)*, the
Bosniak/Croat Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Federacija Bosna
i Hercegovina) and the Bosnian Serb-led Republika Srpska; note -
Brcko district is in northeastern Bosnia and is an administrative
unit under the sovereignty of Bosnia and Herzegovina; the district
remains under international supervision


Independence:

1 March 1992 (from Yugoslavia; referendum for independence completed
1 March 1992; independence declared 3 March 1992)


National holiday:

National Day, 25 November (1943)


Constitution:

the Dayton Agreement, signed 14 December 1995 in Paris, included a
new constitution now in force; note - each of the entities also has
its own constitution


Legal system:

based on civil law system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age, universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Chairman of the Presidency Nebojsa RADMANOVIC
(chairman since 6 November 2008; presidency member since 1 October
2006 - Serb); other members of the three-member presidency rotating
(every eight months): Haris SILAJDZIC (presidency member since 1
October 2006 - Bosniak); and Zeljko KOMSIC (presidency member since
1 October 2006 - Croat)
head of government: Chairman of the Council of Ministers Nikola
SPIRIC (since 11 January 2007)
cabinet: Council of Ministers nominated by the council chairman;
approved by the National House of Representatives
elections: the three members of the presidency (one Bosniak, one
Croat, one Serb) are elected by popular vote for a four-year term
(eligible for a second term, but then ineligible for four years);
the chairmanship rotates every eight months and resumes where it
left off following each national election; election last held 1
October 2006 (next to be held in 2010); the chairman of the Council
of Ministers is appointed by the presidency and confirmed by the
National House of Representatives
election results: percent of vote - Nebojsa RADMANOVIC with 53.3% of
the votes for the Serb seat; Zeljko KOMSIC received 39.6% of the
votes for the Croat seat; Haris SILAJDZIC received 62.8% of the
votes for the Bosniak seat
note: President of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina: Borjana
KRISTO (since 21 February 2007); Vice Presidents Spomenka MICIC
(since NA 2007) and Mirsad KEBO (since NA 2007); President of the
Republika Srpska: Rajko KUSMANOVIC (since 28 December 2007)


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliamentary Assembly or Skupstina consists of the
national House of Representatives or Predstavnicki Dom (42 seats, 28
seats allocated for the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and 14
seats for the Republika Srpska; members elected by popular vote on
the basis of proportional representation, to serve four-year terms);
and the House of Peoples or Dom Naroda (15 seats, 5 Bosniak, 5
Croat, 5 Serb; members elected by the Bosniak/Croat Federation's
House of Representatives and the Republika Srpska's National
Assembly to serve four-year terms); note - Bosnia's election law
specifies four-year terms for the state and first-order
administrative division entity legislatures
elections: national House of Representatives - elections last held 1
October 2006 (next to be held in 2010); House of Peoples - last
constituted in January 2003 (next to be constituted in 2007)
election results: national House of Representatives - percent of
vote by party/coalition - NA; seats by party/coalition - SDA 9, SBH
8, SNSD 7, SDP 5, SDS 3, HDZ-BH 3, HDZ1990 2, other 5; House of
Peoples - percent of vote by party/coalition - NA; seats by
party/coalition - NA
note: the Bosniak/Croat Federation has a bicameral legislature that
consists of a House of Representatives (98 seats; members elected by
popular vote to serve four-year terms); elections last held 1
October 2006 (next to be held in October 2010); percent of vote by
party - NA; seats by party/coalition - SDA 28, SBH 24, SDP 17,
HDZ-BH 8, HDZ100 7, other 14; and a House of Peoples (58 seats - 17
Bosniak, 17 Croat, 17 Serb, 7 other); last constituted December
2002; the Republika Srpska has a National Assembly (83 seats;
members elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms); elections
last held 1 October 2006 (next to be held in the fall of 2010);
percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party/coalition - SNSD 41,
SDS 17, PDP 8, DNS 4, SBH 4, SPRS 3, SDA 3, other 3; as a result of
the 2002 constitutional reform process, a 28-member Republika Srpska
Council of Peoples (COP) was established in the Republika Srpska
National Assembly including eight Croats, eight Bosniaks, eight
Serbs, and four members of the smaller communities


Judicial branch:

BH Constitutional Court (consists of nine members: four members are
selected by the Bosniak/Croat Federation's House of Representatives,
two members by the Republika Srpska's National Assembly, and three
non-Bosnian members by the president of the European Court of Human
Rights); BH State Court (consists of nine judges and three divisions
- Administrative, Appellate and Criminal - having jurisdiction over
cases related to state-level law and appellate jurisdiction over
cases initiated in the entities); a War Crimes Chamber opened in
March 2005
note: the entities each have a Supreme Court; each entity also has a
number of lower courts; there are 10 cantonal courts in the
Federation, plus a number of municipal courts; the Republika Srpska
has five municipal courts


Political parties and leaders:

Alliance of Independent Social Democrats or SNSD [Milorad DODIK];
Bosnian Party or BOSS [Mirnes AJANOVIC]; Civic Democratic Party or
GDS [Ibrahim SPAHIC]; Croat Christian Democratic Union of Bosnia and
Herzegovina or HKDU [Marin TOPIC]; Croat Party of Rights or HSP
[Zvonko JURISIC]; Croat Peasants Party or HSS [Marko TADIC];
Croatian Democratic Union of Bosnia and Herzegovina or HDZ-BH
[Dragan COVIC]; Croatian Democratic Union 1990 or HDZ1990 [Bozo
LJUBIC]; Croatian Democratic Union 100 or HDZ100; Croatian Peoples
Union [Milenko BRKIC]; Democratic National Union or DNZ [Rifet
DOLIC]; Democratic Peoples Alliance or DNS [Marko PAVIC]; Liberal
Democratic Party or LDS [Rasim KADIC]; New Croat Initiative or NHI
[Kresimir ZUBAK]; Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina or SBH [Haris
SILAJDZIC]; Party for Democratic Action or SDA [Sulejman TIHIC];
Party of Democratic Progress or PDP [Mladen IVANIC]; Serb Democratic
Party or SDS [Mladen BOSIC]; Serb Radical Party of the Republika
Srpska or SRS-RS [Milanko MIHAJLICA]; Serb Radical Party-Dr.
Vojislav Seselj or SRS-VS [Radislav KANJERIC]; Social Democratic
Party of BIH or SDP [Zlatko LAGUMDZIJA]; Social Democratic Union or
SDU [Sejfudin TOKIC]; Socialist Party of Republika Srpska or SPRS
[Petar DJOKIC]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

other: displaced persons associations; student councils; war veterans


International organization participation:

BIS, CE, CEI, EAPC, EBRD, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM,
IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU,
ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MONUC, NAM (observer), OAS (observer),
OIC (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PFP, SECI, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Bisera TURKOVIC
chancery: 2109 E Street NW, Washington, DC 20037
telephone: [1] (202) 337-1500
FAX: [1] (202) 337-1502
consulate(s) general: Chicago, New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Charles L. ENGLISH
embassy: Alipasina 43, 71000 Sarajevo
mailing address: use embassy street address
telephone: [387] (33) 445-700
FAX: [387] (33) 659-722
branch office(s): Banja Luka, Mostar


Flag description:

a wide medium blue vertical band on the fly side with a yellow
isosceles triangle abutting the band and the top of the flag; the
remainder of the flag is medium blue with seven full five-pointed
white stars and two half stars top and bottom along the hypotenuse
of the triangle


Economy
Bosnia and Herzegovina



Economy - overview:

Bosnia and Herzegovina ranked next to Macedonia as the poorest
republic in the old Yugoslav federation. Although agriculture is
almost all in private hands, farms are small and inefficient, and
the republic traditionally is a net importer of food. The private
sector is growing and foreign investment is slowly increasing, but
government spending, at nearly 40% of adjusted GDP, remains
unreasonably high. The interethnic warfare in Bosnia caused
production to plummet by 80% from 1992 to 1995 and unemployment to
soar. With an uneasy peace in place, output recovered in 1996-99 at
high percentage rates from a low base; but output growth slowed in
2000-02. Part of the lag in output was made up in 2003-07 when GDP
growth exceeded 5% per year. National-level statistics are limited
and do not capture the large share of black market activity. The
konvertibilna marka (convertible mark or BAM)- the national currency
introduced in 1998 - is pegged to the euro, and confidence in the
currency and the banking sector has increased. Implementing
privatization, however, has been slow, particularly in the
Federation, although more successful in the Republika Srpska.
Banking reform accelerated in 2001 as all the Communist-era payments
bureaus were shut down; foreign banks, primarily from Western
Europe, now control most of the banking sector. A sizeable current
account deficit and high unemployment rate remain the two most
serious macroeconomic problems. On 1 January 2006 a new value-added
tax (VAT) went into effect. The VAT has been successful in capturing
much of the gray market economy and has developed into a significant
and predictable source of revenues for all layers of government.
Bosnia and Herzegovina became a full member of the Central European
Free Trade Agreement in September 2007. The country receives
substantial reconstruction assistance and humanitarian aid from the
international community but will have to prepare for an era of
declining assistance.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$27.7 billion
note: Bosnia has a large informal sector that could also be as much
as 50% of official GDP (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$14.78 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$6,100 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 10.2%
industry: 23.9%
services: 66% (2006 est.)


Labor force:

1.026 million (2001)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: NA%
industry: NA%
services: NA%


Unemployment rate:

45.5% official rate; grey economy may reduce actual unemployment to
25-30% (31 December 2004 est.)


Population below poverty line:

25% (2004 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 3.9%
highest 10%: 21.4% (2001)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

26.2 (2001)


Budget:

revenues: $7.094 billion
expenditures: $7.137 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

34% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

1.6% (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

7.17% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$5.13 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$5.597 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$8.895 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

wheat, corn, fruits, vegetables; livestock


Industries:

steel, coal, iron ore, lead, zinc, manganese, bauxite, vehicle
assembly, textiles, tobacco products, wooden furniture, tank and
aircraft assembly, domestic appliances, oil refining


Industrial production growth rate:

6.7% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

12.84 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

8.501 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

5.123 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - imports:

3.015 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 53.5%
hydro: 46.5%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

27,590 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

27,370 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

400 million cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2005)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006)


Current account balance:

-$1.939 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$4.243 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

metals, clothing, wood products


Exports - partners:

Croatia 21%, Slovenia 16.5%, Italy 16.1%, Germany 13.3%, Austria
9.6%, Hungary 5.7% (2007)


Imports:

$9.947 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, chemicals, fuels, foodstuffs


Imports - partners:

Croatia 24.7%, Slovenia 13.3%, Germany 13.1%, Italy 10.4%, Austria
7%, Turkey 6.5%, Hungary 5.4% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$546.1 million (2005 est.)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$4.525 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$6.734 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

konvertibilna marka (convertible mark) (BAM)


Currency code:

BAM


Exchange rates:

konvertibilna markas (BAM) per US dollar - 1.4419 (2007), 1.5576
(2006), 1.5727 (2005), 1.5752 (2004), 1.7329 (2003)
note: the convertible mark is pegged to the euro


Communications
Bosnia and Herzegovina



Telephones - main lines in use:

1.065 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

2.45 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: post-war reconstruction of the
telecommunications network, aided by a internationally sponsored
program under ERBD, resulted in sharp increases in the number of
main telephone lines available; mobile cellular subscribership has
been increasing rapidly
domestic: fixed-line teledensity roughly 25 per 100 persons;
mobile-cellular telephone density exceeds 50 per 100 persons
international: country code - 387; no satellite earth stations (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 8, FM 16, shortwave 1 (1998)


Radios:

940,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

33 (plus 277 repeaters) (September 1995)


Televisions:

NA


Internet country code:

.ba


Internet hosts:

56,032 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

3 (2000)


Internet users:

1.055 million (2007)


Transportation
Bosnia and Herzegovina



Airports:

28 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 8
2,438 to 3,047 m: 4
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
under 914 m: 3 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 20
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 7
under 914 m: 12 (2007)


Heliports:

5 (2007)


Railways:

total: 608 km
standard gauge: 608 km 1.435-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 21,846 km
paved: 11,425 km (4,714 km of interurban roads)
unpaved: 10,421 km (2006)


Waterways:

Sava River (northern border) open to shipping but use limited (2006)


Ports and terminals:

Bosanska Gradiska, Bosanski Brod, Bosanski Samac, and Brcko (all
inland waterway ports on the Sava), Orasje


Military
Bosnia and Herzegovina



Military branches:

Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces (OSBiH): Army of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Air and Air Defense Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina
(Zrakoplovstvo i Protuzracna Obrana, ZPO) (2007)


Military service age and obligation:

17 years of age for voluntary military service in the Federation and
in the Republika Srpska; conscription abolished January 2006;
4-month service obligation (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,212,007
females age 16-49: 1,170,645 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 996,225
females age 16-49: 962,927 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 30,246
female: 28,189 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

4.5% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Bosnia and Herzegovina



Disputes - international:

sections along the Drina River remain in dispute between Bosnia and
Herzegovina and Serbia; discussions continue with Croatia on several
small disputed sections of the boundary related to maritime access
that hinder final ratification of the 1999 border agreement


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 7,269 (Croatia)
IDPs: 131,600 (Bosnian Croats, Serbs, and Muslims displaced in
1992-95 war) (2007)


Illicit drugs:

increasingly a transit point for heroin being trafficked to Western
Europe; minor transit point for marijuana; remains highly vulnerable
to money-laundering activity given a primarily cash-based and
unregulated economy, weak law enforcement, and instances of
corruption



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Botswana

Introduction
Botswana



Background:

Formerly the British protectorate of Bechuanaland, Botswana adopted
its new name upon independence in 1966. Four decades of
uninterrupted civilian leadership, progressive social policies, and
significant capital investment have created one of the most dynamic
economies in Africa. Mineral extraction, principally diamond mining,
dominates economic activity, though tourism is a growing sector due
to the country's conservation practices and extensive nature
preserves. Botswana has one of the world's highest known rates of
HIV/AIDS infection, but also one of Africa's most progressive and
comprehensive programs for dealing with the disease.


Geography
Botswana



Location:

Southern Africa, north of South Africa


Geographic coordinates:

22 00 S, 24 00 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 600,370 sq km
land: 585,370 sq km
water: 15,000 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Texas


Land boundaries:

total: 4,013 km
border countries: Namibia 1,360 km, South Africa 1,840 km, Zimbabwe
813 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

semiarid; warm winters and hot summers


Terrain:

predominantly flat to gently rolling tableland; Kalahari Desert in
southwest


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: junction of the Limpopo and Shashe Rivers 513 m
highest point: Tsodilo Hills 1,489 m


Natural resources:

diamonds, copper, nickel, salt, soda ash, potash, coal, iron ore,
silver


Land use:

arable land: 0.65%
permanent crops: 0.01%
other: 99.34% (2005)


Irrigated land:

10 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

14.7 cu km (2001)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.19 cu km/yr (41%/18%/41%)
per capita: 107 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

periodic droughts; seasonal August winds blow from the west,
carrying sand and dust across the country, which can obscure
visibility


Environment - current issues:

overgrazing; desertification; limited fresh water resources


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

landlocked; population concentrated in eastern part of the country


People
Botswana



Population:

1,842,323
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 35.2% (male 329,418/female 318,160)
15-64 years: 60.9% (male 566,239/female 556,286)
65 years and over: 3.9% (male 29,165/female 43,055) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 21.2 years
male: 21 years
female: 21.4 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.434% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

22.96 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

14.02 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

5.41 migrant(s)/1,000 population
note: there is an increasing flow of Zimbabweans into South Africa
and Botswana in search of better economic opportunities (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.68 male(s)/female
total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 44.01 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 44.94 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 43.04 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 50.16 years
male: 51.28 years
female: 49.02 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.66 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

37.3% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

350,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

33,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever
vectorborne disease: malaria (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Motswana (singular), Batswana (plural)
adjective: Motswana (singular), Batswana (plural)


Ethnic groups:

Tswana (or Setswana) 79%, Kalanga 11%, Basarwa 3%, other, including
Kgalagadi and white 7%


Religions:

Christian 71.6%, Badimo 6%, other 1.4%, unspecified 0.4%, none 20.6%
(2001 census)


Languages:

Setswana 78.2%, Kalanga 7.9%, Sekgalagadi 2.8%, English 2.1%
(official), other 8.6%, unspecified 0.4% (2001 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 81.2%
male: 80.4%
female: 81.8% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 12 years
male: 12 years
female: 12 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

8.7% of GDP (2007)


Government
Botswana



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Botswana
conventional short form: Botswana
local long form: Republic of Botswana
local short form: Botswana
former: Bechuanaland


Government type:

parliamentary republic


Capital:

name: Gaborone
geographic coordinates: 24 45 S, 25 55 E
time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

9 districts and 5 town councils*; Central, Francistown*, Gaborone*,
Ghanzi, Jwaneng*, Kgalagadi, Kgatleng, Kweneng, Lobatse*, Northeast,
Northwest, Selebi-Pikwe*, Southeast, Southern


Independence:

30 September 1966 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day (Botswana Day), 30 September (1966)


Constitution:

March 1965, effective 30 September 1966


Legal system:

based on Roman-Dutch law and local customary law; judicial review
limited to matters of interpretation; accepts compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction, with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Seretse Khama Ian KHAMA (since 1 April
2008); Vice President Mompati MERAFHE (since 1 April 2008); note -
the president is both the chief of state and head of government
head of government: President Seretse Khama Ian KHAMA (since 1 April
2008); Vice President Mompati MERAFHE (since 1 April 2008)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president
elections: president indirectly elected for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 20 October 2004
(next to be held in October 2009); vice president appointed by the
president
election results: Festus G. MOGAE elected president; percent of
National Assembly vote - 52%


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament consists of the House of Chiefs (a largely
advisory 15-member body with 8 permanent members consisting of the
chiefs of the principal tribes, and 7 non-permanent members serving
5-year terms, consisting of 4 elected subchiefs and 3 members
selected by the other 12 members) and the National Assembly (63
seats, 57 members are directly elected by popular vote, 4 are
appointed by the majority party, and 2, the President and
Attorney-General, serve as ex-officio members; members serve
five-year terms)
elections: National Assembly elections last held 30 October 2004
(next to be held in October 2009)
election results: percent of vote by party - BDP 51.7%, BNF 26.1%,
BCP 16.6%, other 5%; seats by party - BDP 44, BNF 12, BCP 1


Judicial branch:

High Court; Court of Appeal; Magistrates' Courts (one in each
district)


Political parties and leaders:

Botswana Alliance Movement or BAM [Ephraim Lepetu SETSHWAELO];
Botswana Congress Party or BCP [Otlaadisa KOOSALETSE]; Botswana
Democratic Party or BDP [Festus G. MOGAE]; Botswana National Front
or BNF [Otswoletse MOUPO]; Botswana Peoples Party or BPP; MELS
Movement of Botswana or MELS; New Democratic Front or NDF
note: a number of minor parties joined forces in 1999 to form the
BAM but did not capture any parliamentary seats - includes the
United Action Party [Ephraim Lepetu SETSHWAELO]; the Independence
Freedom Party or IFP [Motsamai MPHO]; the Botswana Progressive Union
[D. K. KWELE]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

First People of the Kalahari (Bushman organization); Pitso Ya Ba
Tswana; Society for the Promotion of Ikalanga Language (Kalanga
elites)
other: diamond mining companies


International organization participation:

ACP, AfDB, AU, C, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU,
ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OPCW, SACU, SADC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIS,
UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Lapologang Caesar LEKOA
chancery: 1531-1533 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036
telephone: [1] (202) 244-4990
FAX: [1] (202) 244-4164


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Stephen J. NOLAN
embassy: Embassy Enclave (off Khama Crescent), Gaborone
mailing address: Embassy Enclave, P. O. Box 90, Gaborone
telephone: [267] 395-3982
FAX: [267] 395-6947


Flag description:

light blue with a horizontal white-edged black stripe in the center


Economy
Botswana



Economy - overview:

Botswana has maintained one of the world's highest economic growth
rates since independence in 1966, though growth slowed to 4.7%
annually in 2006-07. Through fiscal discipline and sound management,
Botswana has transformed itself from one of the poorest countries in
the world to a middle-income country with a per capita GDP of nearly
$15,000 in 2007. Two major investment services rank Botswana as the
best credit risk in Africa. Diamond mining has fueled much of the
expansion and currently accounts for more than one-third of GDP and
for 70-80% of export earnings. Tourism, financial services,
subsistence farming, and cattle raising are other key sectors. On
the downside, the government must deal with high rates of
unemployment and poverty. Unemployment officially was 23.8% in 2004,
but unofficial estimates place it closer to 40%. HIV/AIDS infection
rates are the second highest in the world and threaten Botswana's
impressive economic gains. An expected leveling off in diamond
mining production overshadows long-term prospects.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$26.04 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$12.31 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

4.8% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$14,300 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 1.6%
industry: 51.5% (including 36% mining)
services: 46.9% (2006 est.)


Labor force:

288,400 formal sector employees (2004)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: NA%
industry: NA%
services: NA%


Unemployment rate:

7.5% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

30.3% (2003)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

63 (1993)


Investment (gross fixed):

19.2% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $4.741 billion
expenditures: $3.816 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 April - 31 March


Public debt:

5.4% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

7.1% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

14.5% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

16.22% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$1.026 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$4.336 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

NA


Agriculture - products:

livestock, sorghum, maize, millet, beans, sunflowers, groundnuts


Industries:

diamonds, copper, nickel, salt, soda ash, potash; livestock
processing; textiles


Industrial production growth rate:

4.2% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

979 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

2.574 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

1.959 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

11,640 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

14,500 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

$1.973 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$5.025 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

diamonds, copper, nickel, soda ash, meat, textiles


Exports - partners:

European Free Trade Association (EFTA) 87%, Southern African Customs
Union (SACU) 7%, Zimbabwe 4% (2006)


Imports:

$3.403 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

foodstuffs, machinery, electrical goods, transport equipment,
textiles, fuel and petroleum products, wood and paper products,
metal and metal products


Imports - partners:

Southern African Customs Union (SACU) 74%, EFTA 17%, Zimbabwe 4%
(2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$70.89 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$9.79 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$408 million (31 December 2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$3.947 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

pula (BWP)


Currency code:

BWP


Exchange rates:

pulas (BWP) per US dollar - 6.2035 (2007), 5.8447 (2006), 5.1104
(2005), 4.6929 (2004), 4.9499 (2003)


Communications
Botswana



Telephones - main lines in use:

136,900 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

1.427 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: the system is expanding with the growth of
mobile-cellular service and participation in regional development;
system is fully digital with fiber-optic cables linking the major
population centers in the east; fixed-line connections declined in
recent years and now stand at roughly 8 per 100 persons;
mobile-cellular telephone density currently is about 80 per 100
persons
domestic: small system of open-wire lines, microwave radio relay
links, and a few radiotelephone communication stations;
mobile-cellular service is growing fast
international: country code - 267; international calls are made via
satellite, using international direct dialing; 2 international
exchanges; digital microwave radio relay links to Namibia, Zambia,
Zimbabwe, and South Africa; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat
(Indian Ocean) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 8, FM 13, shortwave 4 (2001)


Radios:

252,720 (2000)


Television broadcast stations:

2 (1 state-owned, 1 private)


Televisions:

31,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.bw


Internet hosts:

6,374 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

11 (2001)


Internet users:

80,000 (2007)


Transportation
Botswana



Airports:

85 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 11
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 7
914 to 1,523 m: 2 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 74
1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
914 to 1,523 m: 54
under 914 m: 17 (2007)


Railways:

total: 888 km
narrow gauge: 888 km 1.067-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 25,798 km
paved: 8,410 km
unpaved: 17,388 km (2005)


Military
Botswana



Military branches:

Botswana Defense Force: Ground Forces, Air Wing (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 is the apparent age of voluntary military service; the official
qualifications for determining minimum age are unknown (2001)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 487,853
females age 16-49: 464,278 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 290,093
females age 16-49: 257,700 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 23,007
female: 22,551 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

3.3% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Botswana



Disputes - international:

Botswana still struggles to seal its border from thousands of
Zimbabweans who flee economic collapse and political persecution;
Namibia has long supported, and in 2004 Zimbabwe dropped objections
to, plans between Botswana and Zambia to build a bridge over the
Zambezi River at Kazungula crossing, thereby de facto recognizing
the short, but not clearly delimited, Botswana-Zambia boundary



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Bouvet Island

Introduction
Bouvet Island



Background:

This uninhabited volcanic island is almost entirely covered by
glaciers and is difficult to approach. It was discovered in 1739 by
a French naval officer after whom the island was named. No claim was
made until 1825, when the British flag was raised. In 1928, the UK
waived its claim in favor of Norway, which had occupied the island
the previous year. In 1971, Norway designated Bouvet Island and the
adjacent territorial waters a nature reserve. Since 1977, it has run
an automated meteorological station on the island.


Geography
Bouvet Island



Location:

island in the South Atlantic Ocean, southwest of the Cape of Good
Hope (South Africa)


Geographic coordinates:

54 26 S, 3 24 E


Map references:

Antarctic Region


Area:

total: 49 sq km
land: 49 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

about 0.3 times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

29.6 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 4 nm


Climate:

antarctic


Terrain:

volcanic; coast is mostly inaccessible


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: South Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Olav Peak 935 m


Natural resources:

none


Land use:

arable land: 0%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 100% (93% ice) (2005)


Irrigated land:

0 sq km


Natural hazards:

NA


Environment - current issues:

NA


Geography - note:

covered by glacial ice; declared a nature reserve Norway


People
Bouvet Island



Population:

uninhabited


Government
Bouvet Island



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Bouvet Island


Dependency status:

territory of Norway; administered by the Polar Department of the
Ministry of Justice and Police from Oslo


Legal system:

the laws of Norway, where applicable, apply


Flag description:

the flag of Norway is used


Economy
Bouvet Island



Economy - overview:

no economic activity; declared a nature reserve


Communications
Bouvet Island



Internet country code:

.bv


Internet hosts:

6 (2008)


Communications - note:

automatic meteorological station


Transportation
Bouvet Island



Ports and terminals:

none; offshore anchorage only


Military
Bouvet Island



Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of Norway


Transnational Issues
Bouvet Island



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Brazil

Introduction
Brazil



Background:

Following three centuries under the rule of Portugal, Brazil became
an independent nation in 1822 and a republic in 1889. By far the
largest and most populous country in South America, Brazil overcame
more than half a century of military intervention in the governance
of the country when in 1985 the military regime peacefully ceded
power to civilian rulers. Brazil continues to pursue industrial and
agricultural growth and development of its interior. Exploiting vast
natural resources and a large labor pool, it is today South
America's leading economic power and a regional leader. Highly
unequal income distribution and crime remain pressing problems.


Geography
Brazil



Location:

Eastern South America, bordering the Atlantic Ocean


Geographic coordinates:

10 00 S, 55 00 W


Map references:

South America


Area:

total: 8,511,965 sq km
land: 8,456,510 sq km
water: 55,455 sq km
note: includes Arquipelago de Fernando de Noronha, Atol das Rocas,
Ilha da Trindade, Ilhas Martin Vaz, and Penedos de Sao Pedro e Sao
Paulo


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than the US


Land boundaries:

total: 16,885 km
border countries: Argentina 1,261 km, Bolivia 3,423 km, Colombia
1,644 km, French Guiana 730 km, Guyana 1,606 km, Paraguay 1,365 km,
Peru 2,995 km, Suriname 593 km, Uruguay 1,068 km, Venezuela 2,200 km


Coastline:

7,491 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm or to edge of the continental margin


Climate:

mostly tropical, but temperate in south


Terrain:

mostly flat to rolling lowlands in north; some plains, hills,
mountains, and narrow coastal belt


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Pico da Neblina 3,014 m


Natural resources:

bauxite, gold, iron ore, manganese, nickel, phosphates, platinum,
tin, uranium, petroleum, hydropower, timber


Land use:

arable land: 6.93%
permanent crops: 0.89%
other: 92.18% (2005)


Irrigated land:

29,200 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

8,233 cu km (2000)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 59.3 cu km/yr (20%/18%/62%)
per capita: 318 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

recurring droughts in northeast; floods and occasional frost in south


Environment - current issues:

deforestation in Amazon Basin destroys the habitat and endangers a
multitude of plant and animal species indigenous to the area; there
is a lucrative illegal wildlife trade; air and water pollution in
Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo, and several other large cities; land
degradation and water pollution caused by improper mining
activities; wetland degradation; severe oil spills


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living
Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate
Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered
Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

largest country in South America; shares common boundaries with
every South American country except Chile and Ecuador


People
Brazil



Population:

196,342,592
note: Brazil conducted a census in August 2000, which reported a
population of 169,799,170; that figure was about 3.3% lower than
projections by the US Census Bureau, and is close to the implied
underenumeration of 4.6% for the 1991 census; estimates for this
country explicitly take into account the effects of excess mortality
due to AIDS; this can result in lower life expectancy, higher infant
mortality, higher death rates, lower population growth rates, and
changes in the distribution of population by age and sex than would
otherwise be expected (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 27% (male 26,986,909/female 25,961,947)
15-64 years: 66.8% (male 64,939,225/female 66,157,812)
65 years and over: 6.3% (male 5,182,987/female 7,113,707) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 28.3 years
male: 27.5 years
female: 29 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.228% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

18.72 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

6.35 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-0.09 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.73 male(s)/female
total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 23.33 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 26.95 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 19.53 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 71.71 years
male: 68.15 years
female: 75.45 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.22 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.7% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

660,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

15,000 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Brazilian(s)
adjective: Brazilian


Ethnic groups:

white 53.7%, mulatto (mixed white and black) 38.5%, black 6.2%,
other (includes Japanese, Arab, Amerindian) 0.9%, unspecified 0.7%
(2000 census)


Religions:

Roman Catholic (nominal) 73.6%, Protestant 15.4%, Spiritualist 1.3%,
Bantu/voodoo 0.3%, other 1.8%, unspecified 0.2%, none 7.4% (2000
census)


Languages:

Portuguese (official and most widely spoken language); note - less
common languages include Spanish (border areas and schools), German,
Italian, Japanese, English, and a large number of minor Amerindian
languages


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 88.6%
male: 88.4%
female: 88.8% (2004 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 14 years
male: 14 years
female: 15 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

4% of GDP (2004)


Government
Brazil



Country name:

conventional long form: Federative Republic of Brazil
conventional short form: Brazil
local long form: Republica Federativa do Brasil
local short form: Brasil


Government type:

federal republic


Capital:

name: Brasilia
geographic coordinates: 15 47 S, 47 55 W
time difference: UTC-3 (2 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins third Sunday in October; ends
third Sunday in February
note: Brazil is divided into four time zones, including one for the
Fernando de Noronha Islands


Administrative divisions:

26 states (estados, singular - estado) and 1 federal district*
(distrito federal); Acre, Alagoas, Amapa, Amazonas, Bahia, Ceara,
Distrito Federal*, Espirito Santo, Goias, Maranhao, Mato Grosso,
Mato Grosso do Sul, Minas Gerais, Para, Paraiba, Parana, Pernambuco,
Piaui, Rio de Janeiro, Rio Grande do Norte, Rio Grande do Sul,
Rondonia, Roraima, Santa Catarina, Sao Paulo, Sergipe, Tocantins


Independence:

7 September 1822 (from Portugal)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 7 September (1822)


Constitution:

5 October 1988


Legal system:

based on Roman codes; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

voluntary between 16 and 18 years of age and over 70; compulsory
over 18 and under 70 years of age; note - military conscripts do not
vote


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Luiz Inacio "LULA" DA SILVA (since 1
January 2003); Vice President Jose ALENCAR (since 1 January 2003);
note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government
head of government: President Luiz Inacio "LULA" DA SILVA (since 1
January 2003); Vice President Jose ALENCAR (since 1 January 2003)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president
elections: president and vice president elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for a single four-year term; election last held 1
October 2006 with runoff 29 October 2006 (next to be held 3 October
2010 and, if necessary, 31 October 2010)
election results: Luiz Inacio "LULA" DA SILVA (PT) reelected
president - 60.83%, Geraldo ALCKMIN (PSDB) 39.17%


Legislative branch:

bicameral National Congress or Congresso Nacional consists of the
Federal Senate or Senado Federal (81 seats; 3 members from each
state and federal district elected according to the principle of
majority to serve eight-year terms; one-third and two-thirds elected
every four years, alternately) and the Chamber of Deputies or Camara
dos Deputados (513 seats; members are elected by proportional
representation to serve four-year terms)
elections: Federal Senate - last held 1 October 2006 for one-third
of the Senate (next to be held in October 2010 for two-thirds of the
Senate); Chamber of Deputies - last held 1 October 2006 (next to be
held in October 2010)
election results: Federal Senate - percent of vote by party - NA;
seats by party - PFL 6, PSDB 5, PMDB 4, PTB 3, PT 2, PDT 1, PSB 1,
PL 1, PPS 1, PRTB 1, PP 1, PCdoB 1; Chamber of Deputies - percent of
vote by party - NA; seats by party - PMDB 89, PT 83, PFL 65, PSDB
65, PP 42, PSB 27, PDT 24, PL 23, PTB 22, PPS 21, PCdoB 13, PV 13,
PSC 9, other 17; note - as of 1 January 2008: Federal Senate - seats
by party - PMDB 20, DEM (formerly PFL) 14, PSDB 13, PT 12, PTB 6,
PDT 5, PR 4, PRB 2, PSB 2, PCdoB 1, PP 1, PSOL 1; Chamber of
Deputies - seats by party - PMDB 90, PT 83, PSDB 64, DEM (formerly
PFL) 62, PP 41, PR 34, PSB 28, PDT 23, PTB 21, PPS 17, PV 13, PCdoB
13, PSC 7, PAN 4, PSOL 3, PMN 3, PTC 3, PHS 2, PTdoB 1, PRB 1


Judicial branch:

Supreme Federal Tribunal or STF (11 ministers are appointed for life
by the president and confirmed by the Senate); Higher Tribunal of
Justice; Regional Federal Tribunals (judges are appointed for life);
note - though appointed "for life," judges, like all federal
employees, have a mandatory retirement age of 70


Political parties and leaders:

Brazilian Democratic Movement Party or PMDB [Federal Deputy Michel
TEMER]; Brazilian Labor Party or PTB [Roberto JEFFERSON]; Brazilian
Renewal Labor Party or PRTB [Jose Levy FIDELIX da Cruz]; Brazilian
Republican Party or PRB [Vitor Paulo Araujo DOS SANTOS]; Brazilian
Social Democracy Party or PSDB [Senator Sergio GUERRA]; Brazilian
Socialist Party or PSB [Governor Eduardo Henrique Accioly CAMPOS];
Christian Labor Party or PTC [Daniel TOURINHO]; Communist Party of
Brazil or PCdoB [Jose Renato RABELO]; Democratic Labor Party or PDT
[Carlos Roberto LUPI]; the Democrats or DEM (formerly Liberal Front
Party or PFL) [Federal Deputy Rodrigo MAIA]; Freedom and Socialism
Party or PSOL [Heloisa HELENA]; Green Party or PV [Jose Luiz de
Franca PENNA]; Humanist Party of Solidarity or PHS [Paulo Roberto
MATOS]; Labor Party of Brazil or PTdoB [Luis Henrique de Oliveira
RESENDE]; Liberal Front Party or PFL (now known as the Democrats or
DEM); National Mobilization Party or PMN [Oscar Noronha FILHO];
Party of the Republic or PR [Sergio TAMER]; Popular Socialist Party
or PPS [Federal Deputy Fernando CORUJA]; Progressive Party or PP
[Francisco DORNELLES]; Social Christian Party or PSC [Vitor Jorge
Abdala NOSSEIS]; Workers' Party or PT [Ricardo Jose Ribeiro BERZOINI]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Landless Workers' Movement or MST
other: labor unions and federations; large farmers' associations;
religious groups including evangelical Christian churches and the
Catholic Church


International organization participation:

AfDB (nonregional members), BIS, CAN (associate), CPLP, FAO, G-15,
G-24, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO,
ITU, ITUC, LAES, LAIA, Mercosur, MIGA, MINURCAT, MINURSO, MINUSTAH,
NAM (observer), NSG, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN, UNASUR, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNITAR, UNMIL, UNMIS,
UNMIT, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Antonio de Aguiar PATRIOTA
chancery: 3006 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 238-2700
FAX: [1] (202) 238-2827
consulate(s) general: Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami,
New York, San Francisco


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Clifford M. SOBEL
embassy: Avenida das Nacoes, Quadra 801, Lote 3, Distrito Federal
Cep 70403-900, Brasilia
mailing address: Unit 3500, APO AA 34030
telephone: [55] (61) 3312-7000
FAX: [55] (61) 3225-9136
consulate(s) general: Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo
consulate(s): Recife


Flag description:

green with a large yellow diamond in the center bearing a blue
celestial globe with 27 white five-pointed stars (one for each state
and the Federal District) arranged in the same pattern as the night
sky over Brazil; the globe has a white equatorial band with the
motto ORDEM E PROGRESSO (Order and Progress)


Economy
Brazil



Economy - overview:

Characterized by large and well-developed agricultural, mining,
manufacturing, and service sectors, Brazil's economy outweighs that
of all other South American countries and is expanding its presence
in world markets. Having weathered 2001-03 financial turmoil,
capital inflows are regaining strength and the currency has resumed
appreciating. The appreciation has slowed export volume growth, but
since 2004, Brazil's growth has yielded increases in employment and
real wages. The resilience in the economy stems from
commodity-driven current account surpluses, and sound macroeconomic
policies that have bolstered international reserves to historically
high levels, reduced public debt, and allowed a significant decline
in real interest rates. A floating exchange rate, an
inflation-targeting regime, and a tight fiscal policy are the three
pillars of the economic program. From 2003 to 2007, Brazil ran
record trade surpluses and recorded its first current account
surpluses since 1992. Productivity gains coupled with high commodity
prices contributed to the surge in exports. Brazil improved its debt
profile in 2006 by shifting its debt burden toward real denominated
and domestically held instruments. "LULA" DA SILVA restated his
commitment to fiscal responsibility by maintaining the country's
primary surplus during the 2006 election. Following his second
inauguration, "LULA" DA SILVA announced a package of further
economic reforms to reduce taxes and increase investment in
infrastructure. The government's goal of achieving strong growth
while reducing the debt burden is likely to create inflationary
pressures.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$1.849 trillion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$1.314 trillion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

5.4% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$9,500 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 5.5%
industry: 28.7%
services: 65.8% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

99.23 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 20%
industry: 14%
services: 66% (2003 est.)


Unemployment rate:

9.3% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

31% (2005)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 0.9%
highest 10%: 44.8% (2004)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

56.7 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

17.6% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $244 billion
expenditures: $219.9 billion (FY07)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

45.1% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

3.6% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

17.85% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

43.72% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$131.1 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$792.8 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$1.377 trillion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

coffee, soybeans, wheat, rice, corn, sugarcane, cocoa, citrus; beef


Industries:

textiles, shoes, chemicals, cement, lumber, iron ore, tin, steel,
aircraft, motor vehicles and parts, other machinery and equipment


Industrial production growth rate:

4.9% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

437.3 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

402.2 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - exports:

2.034 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

40.47 billion kWh; note - supplied by Paraguay (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 8.3%
hydro: 82.7%
nuclear: 4.4%
other: 4.6% (2001)


Oil - production:

2.277 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

2.372 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

481,100 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

648,800 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

12.18 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

9.8 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

19.8 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

10 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

347.7 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$1.712 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$160.6 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

transport equipment, iron ore, soybeans, footwear, coffee, autos


Exports - partners:

US 16.1%, Argentina 9.2%, China 6.8%, Netherlands 5.6%, Germany 4.6%
(2007)


Imports:

$120.6 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery, electrical and transport equipment, chemical products,
oil, automotive parts, electronics


Imports - partners:

US 15.7%, China 10.5%, Argentina 8.6%, Germany 7.2%, Nigeria 4.4%
(2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$191.9 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$180.3 billion (31 December 2007)


Debt - external:

$229.4 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$248.9 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$107.1 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$711.1 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

real (BRL)


Currency code:

BRL


Exchange rates:

reals (BRL) per US dollar - 1.85 (2007 est.), 2.1761 (2006), 2.4344
(2005), 2.9251 (2004), 3.0771 (2003)


Communications
Brazil



Telephones - main lines in use:

39.4 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

120.98 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: good working system; fixed-line connections have
remained relatively stable in recent years and stand at about 20 per
100 persons; less expensive mobile cellular technology is a major
driver in expanding telephone service to the low-income segment of
the population with mobile-cellular telephone density reaching
nearly 65 per 100 persons
domestic: extensive microwave radio relay system and a domestic
satellite system with 64 earth stations; mobile-cellular usage has
more than tripled in the past 5 years
international: country code - 55; landing point for a number of
submarine cables that provide direct links to South and Central
America, the Caribbean, the US, Africa, and Europe; satellite earth
stations - 3 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean), 1 Inmarsat (Atlantic Ocean
region east), connected by microwave relay system to Mercosur
Brazilsat B3 satellite earth station (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1,365, FM 296, shortwave 161 (of which 91 are collocated with AM
stations) (1999)


Radios:

71 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

138 (1997)


Televisions:

36.5 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.br


Internet hosts:

9.573 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

50 (2000)


Internet users:

50 million (2007)


Transportation
Brazil



Airports:

4,263 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 718
over 3,047 m: 7
2,438 to 3,047 m: 25
1,524 to 2,437 m: 167
914 to 1,523 m: 467
under 914 m: 52 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 3,545
1,524 to 2,437 m: 83
914 to 1,523 m: 1,555
under 914 m: 1,907 (2007)


Heliports:

16 (2007)


Pipelines:

condensate/gas 244 km; gas 12,070 km; liquid petroleum gas 351 km;
oil 5,214 km; refined products 4,410 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 29,295 km
broad gauge: 4,932 km 1.600-m gauge (939 km electrified)
standard gauge: 194 km 1.440-m gauge
narrow gauge: 23,773 km 1.000-m gauge (581 km electrified)
dual gauge: 396 km 1.000 m and 1.600-m gauges (three rails) (78 km
electrified) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 1,751,868 km
paved: 96,353 km
unpaved: 1,655,515 km (2004)


Waterways:

50,000 km (most in areas remote from industry and population) (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 136
by type: bulk carrier 19, cargo 22, carrier 1, chemical tanker 7,
container 11, liquefied gas 12, passenger/cargo 12, petroleum tanker
45, roll on/roll off 7
foreign-owned: 25 (Chile 1, Denmark 2, Germany 6, Greece 1, Mexico
1, Norway 5, Spain 9)
registered in other countries: 8 (Argentina 1, Bahamas 2, Ghana 1,
Liberia 3, Marshall Islands 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Guaiba, Ilha Grande, Paranagua, Rio Grande, Santos, Sao Sebastiao,
Tubarao


Transportation - note:

the International Maritime Bureau reports the territorial and
offshore waters in the Atlantic Ocean as a significant risk for
piracy and armed robbery against ships; numerous commercial vessels
have been attacked and hijacked both at anchor and while underway;
crews have been robbed and stores or cargoes stolen


Military
Brazil



Military branches:

Brazilian Army, Brazilian Navy (Marinha do Brasil (MB), includes
Naval Air and Marine Corps (Corpo de Fuzileiros Navais)), Brazilian
Air Force (Forca Aerea Brasileira, FAB) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

21-45 years of age for compulsory military service; conscript
service obligation - 9 to 12 months; 17-45 years of age for
voluntary service; an increasing percentage of the ranks are
"long-service" volunteer professionals; women were allowed to serve
in the armed forces beginning in early 1980s when the Brazilian Army
became the first army in South America to accept women into career
ranks; women serve in Navy and Air Force only in Women's Reserve
Corps (2001)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 52,449,957
females age 16-49: 52,375,921 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 39,263,710
females age 16-49: 44,109,056 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 1,666,791
female: 1,608,363 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

2.6% of GDP (2006 est.)


Transnational Issues
Brazil



Disputes - international:

unruly region at convergence of Argentina-Brazil-Paraguay borders is
locus of money laundering, smuggling, arms and illegal narcotics
trafficking, and fundraising for extremist organizations;
uncontested boundary dispute with Uruguay over Isla Brasilera at the
confluence of the Quarai/Cuareim and Invernada rivers, that form a
tripoint with Argentina; the Itaipú Dam reservoir covers over a once
contested section of Brazil-Paraguay boundary west of Guaira Falls
on the Rio Parana; an accord placed the long-disputed Isla
Suárez/Ilha de Guajará-Mirim, a fluvial island on the Río Mamoré,
under Bolivian administration in 1958, but sovereignty remains in
dispute


Illicit drugs:

second-largest consumer of cocaine in the world; illicit producer of
cannabis; trace amounts of coca cultivation in the Amazon region,
used for domestic consumption; government has a large-scale
eradication program to control cannabis; important transshipment
country for Bolivian, Colombian, and Peruvian cocaine headed for
Europe; also used by traffickers as a way station for narcotics air
transshipments between Peru and Colombia; upsurge in drug-related
violence and weapons smuggling; important market for Colombian,
Bolivian, and Peruvian cocaine; illicit narcotics proceeds earned in
Brazil are often laundered through the financial system; significant
illicit financial activity in the Tri-Border Area



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@British Indian Ocean Territory

Introduction
British Indian Ocean Territory



Background:

Formerly administered as part of the British Crown Colony of
Mauritius, the British Indian Ocean Territory (BIOT) was established
as an overseas territory of the UK in 1965. A number of the islands
of the territory were later transferred to the Seychelles when it
attained independence in 1976. Subsequently, BIOT has consisted only
of the six main island groups comprising the Chagos Archipelago. The
largest and most southerly of the islands, Diego Garcia, contains a
joint UK-US naval support facility. All of the remaining islands are
uninhabited. Between 1967 and 1973, former agricultural workers,
earlier residents in the islands, were relocated primarily to
Mauritius, but also to the Seychelles. Negotiations between 1971 and
1982 resulted in the establishment of a trust fund by the British
Government as compensation for the displaced islanders, known as
Chagossians. Beginning in 1998, the islanders pursued a series of
lawsuits against the British Government seeking further compensation
and the right to return to the territory. In 2006 and 2007, British
court rulings invalidated the immigration policies contained in the
2004 BIOT Constitution Order that had excluded the islanders from
the archipelago, but upheld the special military status of Diego
Garcia. In 2008, the House of Lords, as the final court of appeal in
the UK, ruled in favor of the British Goverment by overturning the
lower court rulings and finding no right of return on the part of
the Chagossians.


Geography
British Indian Ocean Territory



Location:

archipelago in the Indian Ocean, south of India, about halfway
between Africa and Indonesia


Geographic coordinates:

6 00 S, 71 30 E; note - Diego Garcia 7 20 S, 72 25 E


Map references:

Political Map of the World


Area:

total: 54,400 sq km
land: 60 sq km; Diego Garcia 44 sq km
water: 54,340 sq km
note: includes the entire Chagos Archipelago of 55 islands


Area - comparative:

land area is about 0.3 times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

698 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 3 nm
exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical marine; hot, humid, moderated by trade winds


Terrain:

flat and low (most areas do not exceed two meters in elevation)


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
highest point: unnamed location on Diego Garcia 15 m


Natural resources:

coconuts, fish, sugarcane


Land use:

arable land: 0%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 100% (2005)


Irrigated land:

0 sq km


Natural hazards:

NA


Environment - current issues:

NA


Geography - note:

archipelago of 55 islands; Diego Garcia, largest and southernmost
island, occupies strategic location in central Indian Ocean; island
is site of joint US-UK military facility


People
British Indian Ocean Territory



Population:

no indigenous inhabitants
note: approximately 1,200 former agricultural workers resident in
the Chagos Archipelago, often referred to as Chagossians or Ilois,
were relocated to Mauritius and the Seychelles in the 1960s and
1970s; in November 2000 they were granted the right of return by a
British High Court ruling, though no timetable has been set; in
November 2004, approximately 4,000 UK and US military personnel and
civilian contractors were living on the island of Diego Garcia


Government
British Indian Ocean Territory



Country name:

conventional long form: British Indian Ocean Territory
conventional short form: none
abbreviation: BIOT


Dependency status:

overseas territory of the UK; administered by a commissioner,
resident in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in London


Legal system:

the laws of the UK, where applicable, apply


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952)
head of government: Commissioner Colin ROBERTS (since July 2008);
Administrator Joanne YEADON (since December 2007); note - both
reside in the UK and are represented by the officer commanding
British Forces on Diego Garcia
cabinet: NA
elections: none; the monarch is hereditary; commissioner and
administrator appointed by the monarch


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


Flag description:

white with six blue wavy horizontal stripes; the flag of the UK is
in the upper hoist-side quadrant; the striped section bears a palm
tree and yellow crown centered on the outer half of the flag


Economy
British Indian Ocean Territory



Economy - overview:

All economic activity is concentrated on the largest island of Diego
Garcia, where a joint UK-US military facility is located.
Construction projects and various services needed to support the
military installation are performed by military and contract
employees from the UK, Mauritius, the Philippines, and the US. There
are no industrial or agricultural activities on the islands. When
the native Ilois return, they plan to reestablish sugarcane
production and fishing. The territory earns foreign exchange by
selling fishing licenses and postage stamps.


Electricity - production:

NA kWh; note - electricity supplied by the US military


Electricity - consumption:

NA kWh


Currency (code):

US Dollar (USD)


Communications
British Indian Ocean Territory



Telephones - main lines in use:

NA


Telephone system:

general assessment: separate facilities for military and public
needs are available
domestic: all commercial telephone services are available, including
connection to the Internet
international: country code (Diego Garcia) - 246; international
telephone service is carried by satellite (2000)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 0 (1998)


Radios:

NA


Television broadcast stations:

1 (1997)


Televisions:

NA


Internet country code:

.io


Internet hosts:

89 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Transportation
British Indian Ocean Territory



Airports:

1 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
over 3,047 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

note: short section of paved road between port and airfield on Diego
Garcia


Ports and terminals:

Diego Garcia


Military
British Indian Ocean Territory



Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of the UK; the US lease on Diego
Garcia expires in 2016


Transnational Issues
British Indian Ocean Territory



Disputes - international:

Mauritius claims the Chagos Archipelago including Diego Garcia; in
2001, the former inhabitants of the Chagos Archipelago, evicted in
1967 and 1973 and now residing chiefly in Mauritius, were granted UK
citizenship and the right to repatriation; in May 2007, the UK Court
of Appeals upheld the May 2006 High Court of London judgment
reversing the UK government's 2004 Orders of Council that banned
habitation on the islands; a small group of Chagossians visited
Diego Garcia in April 2006; repatriation is complicated by the
exclusive US military lease of Diego Garcia that restricts access to
the largest viable island in the chain



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@British Virgin Islands

Introduction
British Virgin Islands



Background:

First inhabited by Arawak and later by Carib Indians, the Virgin
Islands were settled by the Dutch in 1648 and then annexed by the
English in 1672. The islands were part of the British colony of the
Leeward Islands from 1872-1960; they were granted autonomy in 1967.
The economy is closely tied to the larger and more populous US
Virgin Islands to the west; the US dollar is the legal currency.


Geography
British Virgin Islands



Location:

Caribbean, between the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean,
east of Puerto Rico


Geographic coordinates:

18 30 N, 64 30 W


Map references:

Central America and the Caribbean


Area:

total: 153 sq km
land: 153 sq km
water: 0 sq km
note: comprised of 16 inhabited and more than 20 uninhabited
islands; includes the islands of Tortola, Anegada, Virgin Gorda,
Jost van Dyke


Area - comparative:

about 0.9 times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

80 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 3 nm
exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm


Climate:

subtropical; humid; temperatures moderated by trade winds


Terrain:

coral islands relatively flat; volcanic islands steep, hilly


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
highest point: Mount Sage 521 m


Natural resources:

NEGL


Land use:

arable land: 20%
permanent crops: 6.67%
other: 73.33% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

hurricanes and tropical storms (July to October)


Environment - current issues:

limited natural fresh water resources (except for a few seasonal
streams and springs on Tortola, most of the islands' water supply
comes from wells and rainwater catchments)


Geography - note:

strong ties to nearby US Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico


People
British Virgin Islands



Population:

24,041 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 20% (male 2,432/female 2,366)
15-64 years: 74.4% (male 9,178/female 8,715)
65 years and over: 5.6% (male 697/female 653) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 32 years
male: 32.1 years
female: 31.9 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.88% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

14.72 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

4.37 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

8.44 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 1.07 male(s)/female
total population: 1.05 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 15.2 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 17.23 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 13.06 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 77.07 years
male: 75.88 years
female: 78.32 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.71 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: British Virgin Islander(s)
adjective: British Virgin Islander


Ethnic groups:

black 83.4%, white 7%, mixed 5.4%, Indian 3.4%, other 0.8% (1991
census)


Religions:

Protestant 86% (Methodist 33%, Anglican 17%, Church of God 9%,
Seventh-Day Adventist 6%, Baptist 4%, Jehovah's Witnesses 2%, other
15%), Roman Catholic 10%, other 2%, none 2% (1991)


Languages:

English (official)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 97.8% (1991 est.)
male: NA%
female: NA%


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 17 years
male: 15 years
female: 19 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

3.7% of GDP (2006)


Government
British Virgin Islands



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: British Virgin Islands
abbreviation: BVI


Dependency status:

overseas territory of the UK; internal self-governing


Government type:

NA


Capital:

name: Road Town
geographic coordinates: 18 27 N, 64 37 W
time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


Independence:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


National holiday:

Territory Day, 1 July (1956)


Constitution:

13 June 2007


Legal system:

English law


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by Governor David PEAREY (since 18 April 2006)
head of government: Premier Ralph T. O'NEAL (since 23 August 2007)
cabinet: Executive Council appointed by the governor from members of
the House of Assembly
elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor appointed by the
monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the majority
party or the leader of the majority coalition is usually appointed
premier by the governor


Legislative branch:

unicameral House of Assembly (13 elected seats and 1 non-voting ex
officio member in the attorney general; members are elected by
direct popular vote, 1 member from each of nine electoral districts,
4 at-large members; members serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 20 August 2007 (next to be held in 2011)
election results: percent of vote by party - VIP 45.2%, NDP 39.6%,
independent 15.2%; seats by party - VIP 10, NDP 2, independent 1


Judicial branch:

Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court, consisting of the High Court of
Justice and the Court of Appeal (one judge of the Supreme Court is a
resident of the islands and presides over the High Court);
Magistrate's Court; Juvenile Court; Court of Summary Jurisdiction


Political parties and leaders:

Concerned Citizens Movement or CCM [Ethlyn SMITH]; National
Democratic Party or NDP [Orlando SMITH]; United Party or UP [Gregory
MADURO]; Virgin Islands Party or VIP [Ralph T. O'NEAL]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

The Family Support Network; The Women's Desk
other: environmentalists


International organization participation:

Caricom (associate), CDB, Interpol (subbureau), IOC, OECS, UNESCO
(associate), UPU, WFTU


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


Flag description:

blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and
the Virgin Islander coat of arms centered in the outer half of the
flag; the coat of arms depicts a woman flanked on either side by a
vertical column of six oil lamps above a scroll bearing the Latin
word VIGILATE (Be Watchful)


Economy
British Virgin Islands



Economy - overview:

The economy, one of the most stable and prosperous in the Caribbean,
is highly dependent on tourism, generating an estimated 45% of the
national income. An estimated 820,000 tourists, mainly from the US,
visited the islands in 2005. In the mid-1980s, the government began
offering offshore registration to companies wishing to incorporate
in the islands, and incorporation fees now generate substantial
revenues. Roughly 400,000 companies were on the offshore registry by
yearend 2000. The adoption of a comprehensive insurance law in late
1994, which provides a blanket of confidentiality with regulated
statutory gateways for investigation of criminal offenses, made the
British Virgin Islands even more attractive to international
business. Livestock raising is the most important agricultural
activity; poor soils limit the islands' ability to meet domestic
food requirements. Because of traditionally close links with the US
Virgin Islands, the British Virgin Islands has used the US dollar as
its currency since 1959.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$853.4 million (2004 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$839.7 million (2003)


GDP - real growth rate:

1% (2002 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$38,500 (2004 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 1.8%
industry: 6.2%
services: 92% (1996 est.)


Labor force:

12,770 (2004)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 0.6%
industry: 40%
services: 59.4% (2005)


Unemployment rate:

3.6% (1997)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $204.7 million
expenditures: $180.4 million (2004)


Fiscal year:

1 April - 31 March


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2% (2005)


Agriculture - products:

fruits, vegetables; livestock, poultry; fish


Industries:

tourism, light industry, construction, rum, concrete block, offshore
financial center


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

45 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

41.85 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

650 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

649.8 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

$134.3 million (1999)


Exports:

$25.3 million (2002)


Exports - commodities:

rum, fresh fish, fruits, animals; gravel, sand


Exports - partners:

Virgin Islands (US), Puerto Rico, US (2006)


Imports:

$187 million (2002 est.)


Imports - commodities:

building materials, automobiles, foodstuffs, machinery


Imports - partners:

Virgin Islands (US), Puerto Rico, US (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$NA


Debt - external:

$36.1 million (1997)


Currency (code):

US dollar (USD)


Currency code:

USD


Exchange rates:

the US dollar is used


Communications
British Virgin Islands



Telephones - main lines in use:

11,700 (2002)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

8,000 (2002)


Telephone system:

general assessment: worldwide telephone service
domestic: NA
international: country code - 1-284; connected via submarine cable
to Bermuda; the East Caribbean Fiber System (ECFS) submarine cable
provides connectivity to 13 other islands in the eastern Caribbean
(2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 5, shortwave 0 (2004)


Radios:

9,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (plus 1 cable company) (1997)


Televisions:

4,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.vg


Internet hosts:

465 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

16 (2000)


Internet users:

4,000 (2002)


Transportation
British Virgin Islands



Airports:

3 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 200 km
paved: 200 km (2007)


Merchant marine:

registered in other countries: 1 (Panama 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Road Town


Military
British Virgin Islands



Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 7,101 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 5,921 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 184
female: 179 (2008 est.)


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of the UK


Transnational Issues
British Virgin Islands



Disputes - international:

none


Illicit drugs:

transshipment point for South American narcotics destined for the US
and Europe; large offshore financial center makes it vulnerable to
money laundering



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Brunei

Introduction
Brunei



Background:

The Sultanate of Brunei's influence peaked between the 15th and 17th
centuries when its control extended over coastal areas of northwest
Borneo and the southern Philippines. Brunei subsequently entered a
period of decline brought on by internal strife over royal
succession, colonial expansion of European powers, and piracy. In
1888, Brunei became a British protectorate; independence was
achieved in 1984. The same family has ruled Brunei for over six
centuries. Brunei benefits from extensive petroleum and natural gas
fields, the source of one of the highest per capita GDPs in Asia.


Geography
Brunei



Location:

Southeastern Asia, bordering the South China Sea and Malaysia


Geographic coordinates:

4 30 N, 114 40 E


Map references:

Southeast Asia


Area:

total: 5,770 sq km
land: 5,270 sq km
water: 500 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Delaware


Land boundaries:

total: 381 km
border countries: Malaysia 381 km


Coastline:

161 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm or to median line


Climate:

tropical; hot, humid, rainy


Terrain:

flat coastal plain rises to mountains in east; hilly lowland in west


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: South China Sea 0 m
highest point: Bukit Pagon 1,850 m


Natural resources:

petroleum, natural gas, timber


Land use:

arable land: 2.08%
permanent crops: 0.87%
other: 97.05% (2005)


Irrigated land:

10 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

8.5 cu km (1999)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.09
per capita: 243 cu m/yr (1994)


Natural hazards:

typhoons, earthquakes, and severe flooding are rare


Environment - current issues:

seasonal smoke/haze resulting from forest fires in Indonesia


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered
Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

close to vital sea lanes through South China Sea linking Indian and
Pacific Oceans; two parts physically separated by Malaysia; almost
an enclave within Malaysia


People
Brunei



Population:

381,371 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 27.2% (male 53,400/female 50,333)
15-64 years: 69.6% (male 132,895/female 132,391)
65 years and over: 3.2% (male 5,927/female 6,425) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 27.5 years
male: 27.5 years
female: 27.5 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.785% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

18.39 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

3.28 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

2.74 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.92 male(s)/female
total population: 1.02 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 12.69 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 15.19 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 10.07 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 75.52 years
male: 73.32 years
female: 77.83 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.94 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

less than 0.1% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

fewer than 200 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 200 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Bruneian(s)
adjective: Bruneian


Ethnic groups:

Malay 66.3%, Chinese 11.2%, indigenous 3.4%, other 19.1% (2004 est.)


Religions:

Muslim (official) 67%, Buddhist 13%, Christian 10%, other (includes
indigenous beliefs) 10%


Languages:

Malay (official), English, Chinese


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 92.7%
male: 95.2%
female: 90.2% (2001 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 14 years
male: 14 years
female: 14 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

5.2% of GDP (2000)


Government
Brunei



Country name:

conventional long form: Brunei Darussalam
conventional short form: Brunei
local long form: Negara Brunei Darussalam
local short form: Brunei


Government type:

constitutional sultanate


Capital:

name: Bandar Seri Begawan
geographic coordinates: 4 53 N, 114 56 E
time difference: UTC+8 (13 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

4 districts (daerah-daerah, singular - daerah); Belait, Brunei and
Muara, Temburong, Tutong


Independence:

1 January 1984 (from UK)


National holiday:

National Day, 23 February (1984); note - 1 January 1984 was the date
of independence from the UK, 23 February 1984 was the date of
independence from British protection


Constitution:

29 September 1959 (some provisions suspended under a State of
Emergency since December 1962, others since independence on 1
January 1984)


Legal system:

based on English common law; for Muslims, Islamic Sharia law
supersedes civil law in a number of areas; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age for village elections; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Sultan and Prime Minister Sir HASSANAL Bolkiah
(since 5 October 1967); note - the monarch is both the chief of
state and head of government
head of government: Sultan and Prime Minister Sir HASSANAL Bolkiah
(since 5 October 1967)
cabinet: Council of Cabinet Ministers appointed and presided over by
the monarch; deals with executive matters; note - there is also a
Religious Council (members appointed by the monarch) that advises on
religious matters, a Privy Council (members appointed by the
monarch) that deals with constitutional matters, and the Council of
Succession (members appointed by the monarch) that determines the
succession to the throne if the need arises
elections: none; the monarch is hereditary


Legislative branch:

Legislative Council met on 25 September 2004 for first time in 20
years with 21 members appointed by the Sultan; passed constitutional
amendments calling for a 45-seat council with 15 elected members;
Sultan dissolved council on 1 September 2005 and appointed a new
council with 29 members as of 2 September 2005; council met in March
2006 and in March 2007
elections: last held in March 1962 (date of next election NA)


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court - chief justice and judges are sworn in by monarch for
three-year terms; Judicial Committee of Privy Council in London is
final court of appeal for civil cases; Sharia courts deal with
Islamic laws (2006)


Political parties and leaders:

National Development Party or NDP [YASSIN Affendi]
note: Brunei National Solidarity Party or PPKB [Abdul LATIF bin
Chuchu] and People's Awareness Party or PAKAR [Awang Haji MAIDIN bin
Haji Ahmad] were deregistered; parties are small and have limited
activity


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

ADB, APEC, APT, ARF, ASEAN, C, EAS, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDB,
IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, ISO (correspondent),
ITSO, ITU, NAM, OIC, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO,
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Angela SHIM
chancery: 3520 International Court NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 237-1838
FAX: [1] (202) 885-0560


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador William E. TODD
embassy: Third Floor, Teck Guan Plaza, Jalan Sultan, Bandar Seri
Begawan, BS8811
mailing address: PSC 470 (BSB), FPO AP 96507; P.O. Box 2991, Bandar
Seri Begawan BS8675, Negara Brunei Darussalam
telephone: [673] 222-0384
FAX: [673] 222-5293


Flag description:

yellow with two diagonal bands of white (top, almost double width)
and black starting from the upper hoist side; the national emblem in
red is superimposed at the center; the emblem includes a
swallow-tailed flag on top of a winged column within an upturned
crescent above a scroll and flanked by two upraised hands


Economy
Brunei



Economy - overview:

Brunei has a small well-to-do economy that encompasses a mixture of
foreign and domestic entrepreneurship, government regulation,
welfare measures, and village tradition. Crude oil and natural gas
production account for just over half of GDP and more than 90% of
exports. Per capita GDP is among the highest in Asia, and
substantial income from overseas investment supplements income from
domestic production. The government provides for all medical
services and free education through the university level and
subsidizes rice and housing. Brunei's leaders are concerned that
steadily increased integration in the world economy will undermine
internal social cohesion. Plans for the future include upgrading the
labor force, reducing unemployment, strengthening the banking and
tourist sectors, and, in general, further widening the economic base
beyond oil and gas.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$19.64 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$12.39 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

0.4% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$51,000 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 0.9%
industry: 71.6%
services: 27.5% (2005 est.)


Labor force:

180,400 (2006 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 2.9%
industry: 61.1%
services: 36% (2003 est.)


Unemployment rate:

4% (2006)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $3.765 billion
expenditures: $4.815 billion (2004 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 April - 31 March


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

0.4% (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

5.5% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$2.674 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$4.258 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$2.38 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

rice, vegetables, fruits; chickens, water buffalo, cattle, goats,
eggs


Industries:

petroleum, petroleum refining, liquefied natural gas, construction


Industrial production growth rate:

1.8% (2005 est.)


Electricity - production:

3.1 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

2.924 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

180,500 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

13,200 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

200,000 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

304 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

1.1 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

13.8 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

3.99 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

9.4 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

390.8 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$7.101 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$6.767 billion f.o.b. (2006)


Exports - commodities:

crude oil, natural gas, refined products, clothing


Exports - partners:

Japan 32.8%, Indonesia 24.4%, Australia 13.4%, South Korea 12.2%, US
5.5% (2007)


Imports:

$2 billion c.i.f. (2006)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and transport equipment, manufactured goods, food,
chemicals


Imports - partners:

UK 46.4%, Singapore 19.5%, Malaysia 11.3% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$770,000 (2004)


Debt - external:

$0 (2005)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Bruneian dollar (BND)


Currency code:

BND


Exchange rates:

Bruneian dollars (BND) per US dollar - NA (2007), 1.5886 (2006),
1.6644 (2005), 1.6902 (2004), 1.7422 (2003)


Communications
Brunei



Telephones - main lines in use:

79,200 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

339,800 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: service throughout the country is excellent;
international service is good to Southeast Asia, Middle East,
Western Europe, and the US
domestic: every service available
international: country code - 673; landing point for the SEA-ME-WE-3
optical telecommunications submarine cable that provides links to
Asia, the Middle East, and Europe; the Asia-America Gateway
submarine cable network, scheduled for completion by late 2008, will
provide new links to Asia and the US; satellite earth stations - 2
Intelsat (1 Indian Ocean and 1 Pacific Ocean) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 2 (transmitting on 18 different frequencies), shortwave 0
(British Forces Broadcasting Service (BFBS) station transmits two FM
signals with English and Nepali service) (2006)


Radios:

329,000 (1998)


Television broadcast stations:

4 (includes 2 UHF stations broadcasting a subscription service)
(2006)


Televisions:

201,900 (1998)


Internet country code:

.bn


Internet hosts:

14,950 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

2 (2000)


Internet users:

199,532 (2007)


Transportation
Brunei



Airports:

2 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
over 3,047 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)


Heliports:

3 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 672 km; oil 463 km (2007)


Roadways:

total: 3,650 km
paved: 2,819 km
unpaved: 831 km (2005)


Waterways:

209 km (navigable by craft drawing less than 1.2 m) (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 8
by type: liquefied gas 8
foreign-owned: 1 (UK 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Lumut, Muara, Seria


Military
Brunei



Military branches:

Royal Brunei Armed Forces (RBAF): Royal Brunei Land Forces, Royal
Brunei Navy, Royal Brunei Air Force (Tentera Udara Diraja Brunei)
(2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age (est.) for voluntary military service; non-Malays
are ineligible to serve (2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 108,356
females age 16-49: 110,153 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 91,297
females age 16-49: 93,228 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 3,223
female: 3,182 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

4.5% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Brunei



Disputes - international:

Brunei and Malaysia agreed in September 2008 to resolve their
offshore and deepwater seabed dispute, resume hydrocarbon
exploration, and renounce any territorial claims on land; Brunei
established an exclusive economic fishing zone encompassing Louisa
Reef in the southern Spratly Islands in 1984, but makes no public
territorial claim to the offshore reefs; the 2002 "Declaration on
the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea" has eased tensions in
the Spratly Islands but falls short of a legally binding "code of
conduct" desired by several of the disputants


Illicit drugs:

drug trafficking and illegally importing controlled substances are
serious offenses in Brunei and carry a mandatory death penalty



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Bulgaria

Introduction
Bulgaria



Background:

The Bulgars, a Central Asian Turkic tribe, merged with the local
Slavic inhabitants in the late 7th century to form the first
Bulgarian state. In succeeding centuries, Bulgaria struggled with
the Byzantine Empire to assert its place in the Balkans, but by the
end of the 14th century the country was overrun by the Ottoman
Turks. Northern Bulgaria attained autonomy in 1878 and all of
Bulgaria became independent from the Ottoman Empire in 1908. Having
fought on the losing side in both World Wars, Bulgaria fell within
the Soviet sphere of influence and became a People's Republic in
1946. Communist domination ended in 1990, when Bulgaria held its
first multiparty election since World War II and began the
contentious process of moving toward political democracy and a
market economy while combating inflation, unemployment, corruption,
and crime. The country joined NATO in 2004 and the EU in 2007.


Geography
Bulgaria



Location:

Southeastern Europe, bordering the Black Sea, between Romania and
Turkey


Geographic coordinates:

43 00 N, 25 00 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 110,910 sq km
land: 110,550 sq km
water: 360 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than Tennessee


Land boundaries:

total: 1,808 km
border countries: Greece 494 km, Macedonia 148 km, Romania 608 km,
Serbia 318 km, Turkey 240 km


Coastline:

354 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

temperate; cold, damp winters; hot, dry summers


Terrain:

mostly mountains with lowlands in north and southeast


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Black Sea 0 m
highest point: Musala 2,925 m


Natural resources:

bauxite, copper, lead, zinc, coal, timber, arable land


Land use:

arable land: 29.94%
permanent crops: 1.9%
other: 68.16% (2005)


Irrigated land:

5,880 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

19.4 cu km (2005)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 6.92 cu km/yr (3%/78%/19%)
per capita: 895 cu m/yr (2003)


Natural hazards:

earthquakes, landslides


Environment - current issues:

air pollution from industrial emissions; rivers polluted from raw
sewage, heavy metals, detergents; deforestation; forest damage from
air pollution and resulting acid rain; soil contamination from heavy
metals from metallurgical plants and industrial wastes


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

strategic location near Turkish Straits; controls key land routes
from Europe to Middle East and Asia


People
Bulgaria



Population:

7,262,675 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 13.8% (male 514,238/female 489,608)
15-64 years: 68.6% (male 2,449,812/female 2,532,845)
65 years and over: 17.6% (male 520,962/female 755,210) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 41.1 years
male: 38.9 years
female: 43.4 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

-0.813% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

9.58 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

14.3 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-3.41 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.97 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.69 male(s)/female
total population: 0.92 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 18.51 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 22 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 14.8 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 72.83 years
male: 69.22 years
female: 76.66 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.4 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

less than 0.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

346 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

100 (2001 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Bulgarian(s)
adjective: Bulgarian


Ethnic groups:

Bulgarian 83.9%, Turk 9.4%, Roma 4.7%, other 2% (including
Macedonian, Armenian, Tatar, Circassian) (2001 census)


Religions:

Bulgarian Orthodox 82.6%, Muslim 12.2%, other Christian 1.2%, other
4% (2001 census)


Languages:

Bulgarian 84.5%, Turkish 9.6%, Roma 4.1%, other and unspecified 1.8%
(2001 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 98.2%
male: 98.7%
female: 97.7% (2001 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 14 years
male: 13 years
female: 14 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

4.5% of GDP (2005)


Government
Bulgaria



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Bulgaria
conventional short form: Bulgaria
local long form: Republika Balgariya
local short form: Balgariya


Government type:

parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Sofia
geographic coordinates: 42 41 N, 23 19 E
time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

28 provinces (oblasti, singular - oblast); Blagoevgrad, Burgas,
Dobrich, Gabrovo, Khaskovo, Kurdzhali, Kyustendil, Lovech, Montana,
Pazardzhik, Pernik, Pleven, Plovdiv, Razgrad, Ruse, Shumen,
Silistra, Sliven, Smolyan, Sofiya, Sofiya-Grad, Stara Zagora,
Turgovishte, Varna, Veliko Turnovo, Vidin, Vratsa, Yambol


Independence:

3 March 1878 (as an autonomous principality within the Ottoman
Empire); 22 September 1908 (complete independence from the Ottoman
Empire)


National holiday:

Liberation Day, 3 March (1878)


Constitution:

adopted 12 July 1991


Legal system:

civil and criminal law based on Roman law; accepts compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Georgi PARVANOV (since 22 January 2002);
Vice President Angel MARIN (since 22 January 2002)
head of government: Prime Minister Sergei STANISHEV (since 16 August
2005); Deputy Prime Ministers Ivaylo KALFIN, Daniel VULCHEV, and
Emel ETEM (since 16 August 2005) and Meglena PLUGCHIEVA (since 25
April 2008)
cabinet: Council of Ministers nominated by the prime minister and
elected by the National Assembly
elections: president and vice president elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for a five-year term (eligible for a second term);
election last held 22 and 29 October 2006 (next to be held in 2011);
chairman of the Council of Ministers (prime minister) nominated by
the president and elected by the National Assembly; deputy prime
ministers nominated by the prime minister and elected by the
National Assembly
election results: Georgi PARVANOV reelected president; percent of
vote - Georgi PARVANOV 77.3%, Volen SIDEROV 22.7%; Sergei STANISHEV
elected prime minister, result of legislative vote - 168 to 67


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly or Narodno Sobranie (240 seats; members
elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 25 June 2005 (next to be held in June 2009)
election results: percent of vote by party - CfB 31.1%, NMS2 19.9%,
MRF 12.7%, ATAKA 8.2%, UDF 7.7%, DSB 6.5%, BPU 5.2%, other 8.7%;
seats by party - CfB 83, NMS2 53, MRF 33, UDF 20, ATAKA 17, DSB 17,
BPU 13, independents 4; note - seats by party as of January 2008 -
CfB 82, NMS2 36, MRF 34, Bulgarian New Democracy 16, DSB 16, UDF 16,
BPU 13, ATAKA 11, independents 16


Judicial branch:

Supreme Administrative Court; Supreme Court of Cassation;
Constitutional Court (12 justices appointed or elected for nine-year
terms); Supreme Judicial Council (consists of the chairmen of the
two Supreme Courts, the Chief Prosecutor, and 22 other members;
responsible for appointing the justices, prosecutors, and
investigating magistrates in the justice system; members of the
Supreme Judicial Council elected for five-year terms, 11 elected by
the National Assembly and 11 by bodies of the judiciary)


Political parties and leaders:

ATAKA (Attack Coalition) (coalition of parties headed by the Attack
National Union); Attack National Union [Volen SIDEROV]; Bulgarian
Agrarian National Union-People's Union or BANU [Anastasia MOZER];
Bulgarian New Democracy [Borislav RALCHEV]; Bulgarian People's Union
or BPU (coalition of UFD, IMRO, and BANU); Bulgarian Socialist Party
or BSP [Sergei STANISHEV]; Citizens for the European Development of
Bulgaria or GERB [Tsvetan TSVETANOV]; Coalition for Bulgaria or CfB
(coalition of parties dominated by BSP) [Sergei STANISHEV];
Democrats for a Strong Bulgaria or DSB [Ivan KOSTOV]; Internal
Macedonian Revolutionary Organization or IMRO [Krasimir
KARAKACHANOV]; Movement for Rights and Freedoms or MRF [Ahmed
DOGAN]; National Movement for Stability and Progress or NMSS [Simeon
SAXE-COBURG-GOTHA] (formerly National Movement Simeon II or NMS2);
New Time [Emil KOSHLUKOV]; Union of Democratic Forces or UDF [Petar
STOYANOV]; Union of Free Democrats or UFD [Stefan SOFIYANSKI];
United Democratic Forces or UtDF (a coalition of center-right
parties dominated by UDF)


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Confederation of Independent Trade Unions of Bulgaria or CITUB;
Podkrepa Labor Confederation
other: numerous regional, ethnic, and national interest groups with
various agendas


International organization participation:

ACCT, Australia Group, BIS, BSEC, CE, CEI, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EU
(new member), FAO, G- 9, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IFC,
IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU,
ITUC, MIGA, NAM (guest), NATO, NSG, OAS (observer), OIF, OPCW, OSCE,
PCA, SECI, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNWTO, UPU, WCL,
WCO, WEU (associate affiliate), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Latechezar PETKOV
chancery: 1621 22nd Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 387-0174
FAX: [1] (202) 234-7973
consulate(s) general: Chicago, Los Angeles, New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Nancy McELDOWNEY
embassy: 16 Kozyak Street, Sofia 1407
mailing address: American Embassy Sofia, US Department of State,
5740 Sofia Place, Washington, DC 20521-5740
telephone: [359] (2) 937-5100
FAX: [359] (2) 937-5320


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of white (top), green, and red
note: the national emblem, formerly on the hoist side of the white
stripe, has been removed


Economy
Bulgaria



Economy - overview:

Bulgaria, a former communist country that entered the EU on 1
January 2007, has experienced strong growth since a major economic
downturn in 1996. Successive governments have demonstrated
commitment to economic reforms and responsible fiscal planning, but
have failed so far to rein in rising inflation and large current
account deficits. Bulgaria has averaged more than 6% growth since
2004, attracting significant amounts of foreign direct investment,
but corruption in the public administration, a weak judiciary, and
the presence of organized crime remain significant challenges.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$86.71 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$39.61 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6.2% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$11,800 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 6.2%
industry: 32.3%
services: 61.5% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

2.593 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 8.5%
industry: 33.6%
services: 57.9% (2nd qtr. 2006 est.)


Unemployment rate:

7.7% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

14.1% (2003 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.9%
highest 10%: 25.4% (2005)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

31.6 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

29.8% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $16.84 billion
expenditures: $15.35 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

10.5% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

9.8% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

4.58% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

10% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$15.58 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$17.03 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$25.18 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

vegetables, fruits, tobacco, wine, wheat, barley, sunflowers, sugar
beets; livestock


Industries:

electricity, gas, water; food, beverages, tobacco; machinery and
equipment, base metals, chemical products, coke, refined petroleum,
nuclear fuel


Industrial production growth rate:

14% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

43.15 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

30.5 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

7.534 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

3.054 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 47.8%
hydro: 8.1%
nuclear: 44.1%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

3,661 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

109,600 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

50,530 bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - imports:

158,400 bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - proved reserves:

15 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

5.6 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

5.179 billion cu m (2005)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

5.663 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$8.53 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$18.44 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

clothing, footwear, iron and steel, machinery and equipment, fuels


Exports - partners:

Turkey 11.5%, Germany 10.3%, Italy 10.2%, Greece 9.1%, Belgium 6.2%,
Romania 4.9% (2007)


Imports:

$28.67 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment; metals and ores; chemicals and plastics;
fuels, minerals, and raw materials


Imports - partners:

Russia 12.3%, Germany 12.3%, Italy 8.7%, Ukraine 7.2%, Turkey 6.9%,
Greece 6.2%, Romania 4.5%, Austria 4.3% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$742 million (2005-06 est.)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$17.38 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$34.88 billion (30 June 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$33.91 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$559 million (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$10.32 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

lev (BGN)


Currency code:

BGN


Exchange rates:

leva (BGN) per US dollar - 1.4366 (2007), 1.5576 (2006), 1.5741
(2005), 1.5751 (2004), 1.7327 (2003)


Communications
Bulgaria



Telephones - main lines in use:

2.3 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

9.897 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: an extensive but antiquated telecommunications
network inherited from the Soviet era; quality has improved; the
Bulgaria Telecommunications Company's fixed-line monopoly terminated
in 2005 when alternative fixed-line operators were given access to
its network; a drop in fixed-line connections in recent years has
been more than offset by a sharp increase in mobile-cellular
telephone use fostered by multiple service providers; the number of
cellular telephone subscriptions now exceeds the population
domestic: a fairly modern digital cable trunk line now connects
switching centers in most of the regions; the others are connected
by digital microwave radio relay
international: country code - 359; submarine cable provides
connectivity to Ukraine and Russia; a combination submarine cable
and land fiber-optic system provides connectivity to Italy, Albania,
and Macedonia; satellite earth stations - 3 (1 Intersputnik in the
Atlantic Ocean region, 2 Intelsat in the Atlantic and Indian Ocean
regions) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 31, FM 63, shortwave 2 (2001)


Radios:

4.51 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

39 (plus 1,242 repeaters) (2001)


Televisions:

3.31 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.bg


Internet hosts:

513,470 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

200 (2001)


Internet users:

1.899 million (2007)


Transportation
Bulgaria



Airports:

214 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 131
over 3,047 m: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 18
1,524 to 2,437 m: 15
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 95 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 83
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 9
under 914 m: 72 (2007)


Heliports:

4 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 2,500 km; oil 339 km; refined products 156 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 4,294 km
standard gauge: 4,049 km 1.435-m gauge (2,710 km electrified)
narrow gauge: 245 km 0.760-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 40,231 km
paved: 39,587 km (includes 331 km of expressways)
unpaved: 644 km (2005)


Waterways:

470 km (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 74
by type: bulk carrier 37, cargo 14, chemical tanker 5, container 6,
liquefied gas 2, passenger/cargo 2, petroleum tanker 3, roll on/roll
off 4, specialized tanker 1
foreign-owned: 65 (Germany 63, Ireland 1, Russia 1)
registered in other countries: 31 (Comoros 2, Malta 5, Panama 3,
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 15, Slovakia 6) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Burgas, Varna


Military
Bulgaria



Military branches:

Bulgarian Armed Forces: Ground Forces, Naval Forces, Bulgarian Air
Forces (Bulgarski Voennovazdyshni Sily, BVVS) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18-27 years of age for voluntary military service; conscript service
obligation - 9 months; as of May 2006, 67% of the Bulgarian Army
comprised of professional soldiers; conscription ended as of 1
January 2008; Air and Air Defense Forces and Naval Forces became
fully professional at the end of 2006 (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,701,979
females age 16-49: 1,691,092 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,364,029
females age 16-49: 1,401,348 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 39,477
female: 37,339 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

2.6% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Bulgaria



Disputes - international:

none


Illicit drugs:

major European transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin and,
to a lesser degree, South American cocaine for the European market;
limited producer of precursor chemicals; some money laundering of
drug-related proceeds through financial institutions



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Burkina Faso

Introduction
Burkina Faso



Background:

Burkina Faso (formerly Upper Volta) achieved independence from
France in 1960. Repeated military coups during the 1970s and 1980s
were followed by multiparty elections in the early 1990s. Current
President Blaise COMPAORE came to power in a 1987 military coup and
has won every election since then. Burkina Faso's high population
density and limited natural resources result in poor economic
prospects for the majority of its citizens. Recent unrest in Cote
d'Ivoire and northern Ghana has hindered the ability of several
hundred thousand seasonal Burkinabe farm workers to find employment
in neighboring countries.


Geography
Burkina Faso



Location:

Western Africa, north of Ghana


Geographic coordinates:

13 00 N, 2 00 W


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 274,200 sq km
land: 273,800 sq km
water: 400 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than Colorado


Land boundaries:

total: 3,193 km
border countries: Benin 306 km, Cote d'Ivoire 584 km, Ghana 549 km,
Mali 1,000 km, Niger 628 km, Togo 126 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

tropical; warm, dry winters; hot, wet summers


Terrain:

mostly flat to dissected, undulating plains; hills in west and
southeast


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Mouhoun (Black Volta) River 200 m
highest point: Tena Kourou 749 m


Natural resources:

manganese, limestone, marble; small deposits of gold, phosphates,
pumice, salt


Land use:

arable land: 17.66%
permanent crops: 0.22%
other: 82.12% (2005)


Irrigated land:

250 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

17.5 cu km (2001)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.8 cu km/yr (13%/1%/86%)
per capita: 60 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

recurring droughts


Environment - current issues:

recent droughts and desertification severely affecting agricultural
activities, population distribution, and the economy; overgrazing;
soil degradation; deforestation


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection,
Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

landlocked savanna cut by the three principal rivers of the Black,
Red, and White Voltas


People
Burkina Faso



Population:

15,264,735
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 46.3% (male 3,549,034/female 3,521,684)
15-64 years: 51.1% (male 3,885,124/female 3,922,198)
65 years and over: 2.5% (male 154,476/female 232,219) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 16.7 years
male: 16.5 years
female: 16.9 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

3.109% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

44.68 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

13.59 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.66 male(s)/female
total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 86.02 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 93.68 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 78.12 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 52.55 years
male: 50.67 years
female: 54.49 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

6.34 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

4.2% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

300,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

29,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne disease: malaria
water contact disease: schistosomiasis
respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis
note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Burkinabe (singular and plural)
adjective: Burkinabe


Ethnic groups:

Mossi over 40%, other approximately 60% (includes Gurunsi, Senufo,
Lobi, Bobo, Mande, and Fulani)


Religions:

Muslim 50%, indigenous beliefs 40%, Christian (mainly Roman
Catholic) 10%


Languages:

French (official), native African languages belonging to Sudanic
family spoken by 90% of the population


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 21.8%
male: 29.4%
female: 15.2% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 5 years
male: 5 years
female: 4 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

4.2% of GDP (2006)


Government
Burkina Faso



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Burkina Faso
local long form: none
local short form: Burkina Faso
former: Upper Volta, Republic of Upper Volta


Government type:

parliamentary republic


Capital:

name: Ouagadougou
geographic coordinates: 12 22 N, 1 31 W
time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

45 provinces; Bale, Bam, Banwa, Bazega, Bougouriba, Boulgou,
Boulkiemde, Comoe, Ganzourgou, Gnagna, Gourma, Houet, Ioba, Kadiogo,
Kenedougou, Komondjari, Kompienga, Kossi, Koulpelogo, Kouritenga,
Kourweogo, Leraba, Loroum, Mouhoun, Nahouri, Namentenga, Nayala,
Noumbiel, Oubritenga, Oudalan, Passore, Poni, Sanguie, Sanmatenga,
Seno, Sissili, Soum, Sourou, Tapoa, Tuy, Yagha, Yatenga, Ziro,
Zondoma, Zoundweogo


Independence:

5 August 1960 (from France)


National holiday:

Republic Day, 11 December (1958)


Constitution:

2 June 1991 approved by referendum, 11 June 1991 formally adopted;
last amended January 2002


Legal system:

based on French civil law system and customary law; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Blaise COMPAORE (since 15 October 1987)
head of government: Prime Minister Tertius ZONGO (since 4 June 2007)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
recommendation of the prime minister
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 13 November 2005
(next to be held in 2010); in April 2000, the constitution was
amended reducing the presidential term from seven to five years,
enforceable as of 2005; prime minister appointed by the president
with the consent of the legislature
election results: Blaise COMPAORE reelected president; percent of
popular vote - Blaise COMPAORE 80.3%, Benewende Stanislas SANKARA
4.9%


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale (111 seats;
members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: National Assembly election last held 6 May 2007 (next to
be held in May 2012)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
CDP 73, ADF-RDA 14, UPR 5, UNIR-MS 4, CFD-B 3, UPS 2, PDP-PS 2, RDB
2, PDS 2, PAREN 1, PAI 1, RPC 1, UDPS 1


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court; Appeals Court


Political parties and leaders:

African Democratic Rally-Alliance for Democracy and Federation or
ADF-RDA [Gilbert OUEDRAOGO]; Citizen's Popular Rally or RPC [Antoine
QUARE]; Coalition of Democratic Forces of Burkina or CFD-B [Amadou
Diemdioda DICKO]; Congress for Democracy and Progress or CDP [Roch
Marc-Christian KABORE]; Movement for Tolerance and Progress or MTP
[Nayabtigungou Congo KABORE]; Party for African Independence or PAI
[Philippe OUEDRAOGO]; Party for Democracy and Progress/Socialist
Party or PDP/PS [Ali LANKOANDE]; Party for Democracy and Socialism
or PDS [Felix SOUBEIGA]; Party for National Rebirth or PAREN [Oumar
DJIGUIMDE]; Rally for the Development of Burkina or RDB [Antoine
KARGOUGOU]; Rally of Ecologists of Burkina Faso or RDEB [Ram
OUEDRAGO]; Republican Party for Integration and Solidarity or PARIS
[Cyril GOUNGOUNGA]; Union for Democracy and Social Progress or UDPS
[Fidele HIEN]; Union for Rebirth - Sankarist Movement or UNIR-MS
[Benewende STANISLAS]; Union for the Republic or UPR [Toussaint Abel
COULIBALY]; Union of Sankarist Parties or UPS [Ernest Nongma
OUEDRAOGO]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Burkinabe General Confederation of Labor or CGTB [Tole SAGNON];
Burkinabe Movement for Human Rights or MBDHP [Chrysigone ZOUGMORE];
Group of 14 February [Benewende STANISLAS]; National Confederation
of Burkinabe Workers or CNTB [Laurent OUEDRAOGO]; National
Organization of Free Unions or ONSL [Paul KABORE]
other: watchdog/political action groups throughout the country in
both organizations and communities


International organization participation:

ACCT, ACP, AfDB, AU, ECOWAS, Entente, FAO, FZ, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF,
Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA,
MONUC, NAM, OIC, OIF, OPCW, PCA, UN, UN Security Council
(temporary), UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNITAR, UNMIS, UNOCI,
UNWTO, UPU, WADB (regional), WAEMU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Paramanga Ernest YONLI
chancery: 2340 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 332-5577
FAX: [1] (202) 667-1882


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Jeanine E. JACKSON
embassy: 602 Avenue Raoul Follereau, Koulouba, Secteur 4
mailing address: 01 B. P. 35, Ouagadougou 01; pouch mail - US
Department of State, 2440 Ouagadougou Place, Washington, DC
20521-2440
telephone: [226] 50-30-67-23
FAX: [226] 50-30-38-90


Flag description:

two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and green with a yellow
five-pointed star in the center
note: uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia


Economy
Burkina Faso



Economy - overview:

One of the poorest countries in the world, landlocked Burkina Faso
has few natural resources and a weak industrial base. About 90% of
the population is engaged in subsistence agriculture, which is
vulnerable to periodic drought. Cotton is the main cash crop and the
government has joined with three other cotton producing countries in
the region - Mali, Niger, and Chad - to lobby in the World Trade
Organization for fewer subsidies to producers in other competing
countries. Since 1998, Burkina Faso has embarked upon a gradual but
successful privatization of state-owned enterprises. Having revised
its investment code in 2004, Burkina Faso hopes to attract foreign
investors. Thanks to this new code and other legislation favoring
the mining sector, the country has seen an upswing in gold
exploration and production. While the bitter internal crisis in
neighboring Cote d'Ivoire is beginning to be resolved, it is still
having a negative effect on Burkina Faso's trade and employment. In
2007 higher costs for energy and imported foodstuffs, as well as low
cotton prices, dampened a GDP growth rate that had averaged 6% in
the last 10 years. Burkina Faso received a Millennium Challenge
Account threshold grant to improve girls' education at the primary
school level, and appears likely to receive a grant in the areas of
infrastructure, agriculture, and land reform.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$17.41 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$6.977 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

4.2% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$1,200 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 29.7%
industry: 19.4%
services: 50.9% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

5 million
note: a large part of the male labor force migrates annually to
neighboring countries for seasonal employment (2003)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 90%
industry and services: 10% (2000 est.)


Unemployment rate:

77% (2004)


Population below poverty line:

46.4% (2004)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.8%
highest 10%: 32.2% (2004)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

39.5 (2007)


Investment (gross fixed):

21.1% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $1.415 billion
expenditures: $1.847 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

-0.2% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

4.25% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

NA


Stock of money:

$1.051 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$663 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$905.1 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

cotton, peanuts, shea nuts, sesame, sorghum, millet, corn, rice;
livestock


Industries:

cotton lint, beverages, agricultural processing, soap, cigarettes,
textiles, gold


Industrial production growth rate:

5.2% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

611.6 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

509.3 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 69.9%
hydro: 30.1%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

8,470 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

8,446 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$706 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$617 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

cotton, livestock, gold


Exports - partners:

China 29.6%, Singapore 15.7%, Thailand 7.2%, Ghana 6.4%, Niger 4.8%
(2007)


Imports:

$1.296 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

capital goods, foodstuffs, petroleum


Imports - partners:

Cote d'Ivoire 25.8%, France 20.6%, Togo 7.1% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$659.6 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$1.029 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$1.33 billion (2007)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note - responsible
authority is the Central Bank of the West African States


Currency code:

XOF


Exchange rates:

Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US dollar - 493.51
(2007), 522.59 (2006), 527.47 (2005), 528.29 (2004), 581.2 (2003)
note: since 1 January 1999, the XOF franc has been pegged to the
euro at a rate of 655.957 XOF francs per euro


Communications
Burkina Faso



Telephones - main lines in use:

94,800 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

1.611 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: services only fair; in 2006 the government sold
a 51 percent stake in the national telephone company and ultimately
plans to retain only a 23 percent stake in the company; fixed-line
connections stand at less than 1 per 100 persons; mobile-cellular
usage, fostered by multiple providers, is increasing rapidly from a
low base
domestic: microwave radio relay, open-wire, and radiotelephone
communication stations
international: country code - 226; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 2, FM 26, shortwave 3


Radios:

394,020 (2000)


Television broadcast stations:

3 (1 national, 2 private)


Televisions:

131,340 (2002)


Internet country code:

.bf


Internet hosts:

116 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2002)


Internet users:

80,000 (2006)


Transportation
Burkina Faso



Airports:

33 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 2
over 3,047 m: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 31
1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
914 to 1,523 m: 11
under 914 m: 17 (2007)


Railways:

total: 622 km
narrow gauge: 622 km 1.000-m gauge
note: another 660 km of this railway extends into Cote D'Ivoire
(2006)


Roadways:

total: 92,495 km
paved: 3,857 km
unpaved: 88,638 km (2004)


Military
Burkina Faso



Military branches:

Army, Air Force of Burkina Faso (Force Aerienne de Burkina Faso,
FABF), National Gendarmerie (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for compulsory military service; 20 years of age for
voluntary military service (2001)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 3,364,288 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,115,948 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 176,358
female: 173,856 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.2% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Burkina Faso



Disputes - international:

in September 2007, Economic Community of West African States
(ECOWAS) intervened to attempt to resolve the dispute over two
villages along the Benin-Burkina Faso border that remain from 2005
ICJ decision; in recent years citizens and rogue security forces rob
and harass local populations on both sides of the poorly-defined
Burkina Faso-Niger border; despite the presence of over 9,000 UN
forces (UNOCI) in Cote d'Ivoire since 2004, ethnic conflict
continues to spread into neighboring states who can no longer send
their migrant workers to work in Ivorian cocoa plantations



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Burma

Introduction
Burma



Background:

Britain conquered Burma over a period of 62 years (1824-1886) and
incorporated it into its Indian Empire. Burma was administered as a
province of India until 1937 when it became a separate,
self-governing colony; independence from the Commonwealth was
attained in 1948. Gen. NE WIN dominated the government from 1962 to
1988, first as military ruler, then as self-appointed president, and
later as political kingpin. Despite multiparty legislative elections
in 1990 that resulted in the main opposition party - the National
League for Democracy (NLD) - winning a landslide victory, the ruling
junta refused to hand over power. NLD leader and Nobel Peace Prize
recipient AUNG SAN SUU KYI, who was under house arrest from 1989 to
1995 and 2000 to 2002, was imprisoned in May 2003 and subsequently
transferred to house arrest. After Burma's ruling junta in August
2007 unexpectedly increased fuel prices, tens of thousands of
Burmese marched in protest, led by prodemocracy activists and
Buddhist monks. In late September 2007, the government brutally
suppressed the protests, killing at least 13 people and arresting
thousands for participating in the demonstrations. Since then, the
regime has continued to raid homes and monasteries and arrest
persons suspected of participating in the pro-democracy protests.
The junta appointed Labor Minister AUNG KYI in October 2007 as
liaison to AUNG SAN SUU KYI, who remains under house arrest and
virtually incommunicado with her party and supporters.


Geography
Burma



Location:

Southeastern Asia, bordering the Andaman Sea and the Bay of Bengal,
between Bangladesh and Thailand


Geographic coordinates:

22 00 N, 98 00 E


Map references:

Southeast Asia


Area:

total: 678,500 sq km
land: 657,740 sq km
water: 20,760 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Texas


Land boundaries:

total: 5,876 km
border countries: Bangladesh 193 km, China 2,185 km, India 1,463 km,
Laos 235 km, Thailand 1,800 km


Coastline:

1,930 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin


Climate:

tropical monsoon; cloudy, rainy, hot, humid summers (southwest
monsoon, June to September); less cloudy, scant rainfall, mild
temperatures, lower humidity during winter (northeast monsoon,
December to April)


Terrain:

central lowlands ringed by steep, rugged highlands


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Andaman Sea 0 m
highest point: Hkakabo Razi 5,881 m


Natural resources:

petroleum, timber, tin, antimony, zinc, copper, tungsten, lead,
coal, marble, limestone, precious stones, natural gas, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 14.92%
permanent crops: 1.31%
other: 83.77% (2005)


Irrigated land:

18,700 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

1,045.6 cu km (1999)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 33.23 cu km/yr (1%/1%/98%)
per capita: 658 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

destructive earthquakes and cyclones; flooding and landslides common
during rainy season (June to September); periodic droughts


Environment - current issues:

deforestation; industrial pollution of air, soil, and water;
inadequate sanitation and water treatment contribute to disease


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Ozone
Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
Timber 94
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

strategic location near major Indian Ocean shipping lanes


People
Burma



Population:

47,758,180
note: estimates for this country take into account the effects of
excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower life
expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 25.7% (male 6,236,484/female 6,038,576)
15-64 years: 68.9% (male 16,300,380/female 16,627,045)
65 years and over: 5.4% (male 1,098,344/female 1,457,352) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 27.8 years
male: 27.2 years
female: 28.4 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.8% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

17.23 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

9.23 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.75 male(s)/female
total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 49.12 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 55.53 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 42.33 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 62.94 years
male: 60.73 years
female: 65.28 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.92 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

1.2% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

330,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

20,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria
water contact disease: leptospirosis
animal contact disease: rabies
note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Burmese (singular and plural)
adjective: Burmese


Ethnic groups:

Burman 68%, Shan 9%, Karen 7%, Rakhine 4%, Chinese 3%, Indian 2%,
Mon 2%, other 5%


Religions:

Buddhist 89%, Christian 4% (Baptist 3%, Roman Catholic 1%), Muslim
4%, animist 1%, other 2%


Languages:

Burmese, minority ethnic groups have their own languages


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 89.9%
male: 93.9%
female: 86.4% (2006 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 8 years
male: 8 years
female: 8 years (2001)


Education expenditures:

1.2% of GDP (2001)


Government
Burma



Country name:

conventional long form: Union of Burma
conventional short form: Burma
local long form: Pyidaungzu Myanma Naingngandaw (translated by the
US Government as Union of Myanma and by the Burmese as Union of
Myanmar)
local short form: Myanma Naingngandaw
former: Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma
note: since 1989 the military authorities in Burma have promoted the
name Myanmar as a conventional name for their state; this decision
was not approved by any sitting legislature in Burma, and the US
Government did not adopt the name, which is a derivative of the
Burmese short-form name Myanma Naingngandaw


Government type:

military junta


Capital:

name: Rangoon (Yangon)
geographic coordinates: 16 48 N, 96 09 E
time difference: UTC+6.5 (11.5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
note: Nay Pyi Taw is administrative capital


Administrative divisions:

7 divisions (taing-myar, singular - taing) and 7 states (pyi
ne-myar, singular - pyi ne)
divisions: Ayeyarwady, Bago, Magway, Mandalay, Sagaing, Tanintharyi,
Yangon
states: Chin, Kachin, Kayah, Kayin, Mon, Rakhine, Shan


Independence:

4 January 1948 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 4 January (1948); Union Day, 12 February (1947)


Constitution:

30 May 2008


Legal system:

based on English common law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Chairman of the State Peace and Development Council
(SPDC) Sr. Gen. THAN SHWE (since 23 April 1992)
head of government: Prime Minister, Lt. Gen THEIN SEIN (since 24
October 2007)
cabinet: Cabinet is overseen by SPDC; military junta assumed power
18 September 1988 under name State Law and Order Restoration Council
(SLORC)
elections: none


Legislative branch:

unicameral People's Assembly or Pyithu Hluttaw (485 seats; members
elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 27 May 1990, but Assembly never allowed by
junta to convene (junta has announced plans to hold elections in
2010)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
NLD 392 (opposition), SNLD 23 (opposition), NUP 10 (pro-government),
other 60


Judicial branch:

remnants of the British-era legal system are in place, but there is
no guarantee of a fair public trial; the judiciary is not
independent of the executive


Political parties and leaders:

National League for Democracy or NLD [AUNG SHWE, AUNG SAN SUU KYI];
National Unity Party or NUP (pro-regime) [TUN YE]; Shan
Nationalities League for Democracy or SNLD [HKUN HTUN OO]; and other
smaller parties


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Ethnic Nationalities Council or ENC (based in Thailand); Federation
of Trade Unions-Burma or FTUB (exile trade union and labor
advocates); National Coalition Government of the Union of Burma or
NCGUB (self-proclaimed government in exile) ["Prime Minister" Dr.
SEIN WIN] consists of individuals, some legitimately elected to the
People's Assembly in 1990 (the group fled to a border area and
joined insurgents in December 1990 to form parallel government in
exile); Kachin Independence Organization or KIO; Karen National
Union or KNU; Karenni National People's Party or KNPP; National
Council-Union of Burma or NCUB (exile coalition of opposition
groups); United Wa State Army or UWSA; Union Solidarity and
Development Association or USDA (pro-regime, a social and political
mass-member organization) [HTAY OO, general secretary]; 88
Generation Students (pro-democracy movement) [MIN KO NAING]
other: several Shan factions


International organization participation:

ADB, APT, ARF, ASEAN, BIMSTEC, CP, EAS, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, ISO
(correspondent), ITU, NAM, OPCW (signatory), SAARC (observer), UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires MYINT LWIN
chancery: 2300 S Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 332-3344
FAX: [1] (202) 332-4351
consulate(s) general: New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Larry M.
DINGER
embassy: 110 University Avenue, Kamayut Township, Rangoon
mailing address: Box B, APO AP 96546
telephone: [95] (1) 536-509, 535-756, 538-038
FAX: [95] (1) 650-306


Flag description:

red with a blue rectangle in the upper hoist-side corner bearing 14,
white, five-pointed stars encircling a cogwheel containing a stalk
of rice; the 14 stars represent the seven administrative divisions
and seven states


Economy
Burma



Economy - overview:

Burma, a resource-rich country, suffers from pervasive government
controls, inefficient economic policies, and rural poverty. The
junta took steps in the early 1990s to liberalize the economy after
decades of failure under the "Burmese Way to Socialism," but those
efforts stalled, and some of the liberalization measures were
rescinded. Despite Burma's increasing oil and gas revenue,
socio-economic conditions have deteriorated due to the regime's
mismanagement of the economy. Lacking monetary or fiscal stability,
the economy suffers from serious macroeconomic imbalances -
including rising inflation, fiscal deficits, multiple official
exchange rates that overvalue the Burmese kyat, a distorted interest
rate regime, unreliable statistics, and an inability to reconcile
national accounts to determine a realistic GDP figure. Most overseas
development assistance ceased after the junta began to suppress the
democracy movement in 1988 and subsequently refused to honor the
results of the 1990 legislative elections. In response to the
government of Burma's attack in May 2003 on AUNG SAN SUU KYI and her
convoy, the US imposed new economic sanctions in August 2003
including a ban on imports of Burmese products and a ban on
provision of financial services by US persons. Further, a poor
investment climate hampers attracting outside investment slowing the
inflow of foreign exchange. The most productive sectors will
continue to be in extractive industries, especially oil and gas,
mining, and timber with the latter especially causing environmental
degradation. Other areas, such as manufacturing and services, are
struggling with inadequate infrastructure, unpredictable
import/export policies, deteriorating health and education systems,
and endemic corruption. A major banking crisis in 2003 shuttered the
country's 20 private banks and disrupted the economy. As of 2007,
the largest private banks operated under tight restrictions limiting
the private sector's access to formal credit. Moreover, the
September 2007 crackdown on prodemocracy demonstrators, including
thousands of monks, further strained the economy as the tourism
industry, which directly employs about 500,000 people, suffered
dramatic declines in foreign visitor levels. In November 2007, the
European Union announced new sanctions banning investment and trade
in Burmese gems, timber and precious stones, while the United States
expanded its sanctions list to include more Burmese government and
military officials and their family members, as well as prominent
regime business cronies, their family members, and associated
companies. Official statistics are inaccurate. Published statistics
on foreign trade are greatly understated because of the size of the
black market and unofficial border trade - often estimated to be as
large as the official economy. Though the Burmese government has
good economic relations with its neighbors, better investment and
business climates and an improved political situation are needed to
promote serious foreign investment, exports, and tourism.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$91.13 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$13.53 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

3.8% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$1,900 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 42.4%
industry: 18.9%
services: 38.7% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

29.26 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 70%
industry: 7%
services: 23% (2001)


Unemployment rate:

5.2% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

32.7% (2007 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.8%
highest 10%: 32.4% (1998)


Investment (gross fixed):

13.1% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: NA
expenditures: NA (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 April - 31 March


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

35% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

12% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

17% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$598 billion
note: This number reflects the vastly overvalued official exchange
rate of 5.38 kyat per dollar. At the unofficial black market rate of
1305 kyat per dollar, the stock of kyats would equal only US$2.465
billion and Burma's velocity of money (the number of times money
turns over in the course of a year) would be six, in line with the
velocity of money for other countries in the region. (31 December
2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$216.9 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$887.7 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

rice, pulses, beans, sesame, groundnuts, sugarcane; hardwood; fish
and fish products


Industries:

agricultural processing; wood and wood products; copper, tin,
tungsten, iron; cement, construction materials; pharmaceuticals;
fertilizer; natural gas; garments, jade and gems


Industrial production growth rate:

9% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

5.961 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

4.289 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 44.5%
hydro: 43.4%
nuclear: 0%
other: 12.1% (2002)


Oil - production:

21,900 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

43,140 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

5,000 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - imports:

22,180 bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - proved reserves:

50 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

12.6 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

3.62 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

9.9 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

283.2 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$1.427 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$6.122 billion f.o.b.
note: official export figures are grossly underestimated due to the
value of timber, gems, narcotics, rice, and other products smuggled
to Thailand, China, and Bangladesh (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

natural gas, wood products, pulses, beans, fish, rice, clothing,
jade and gems


Exports - partners:

Thailand 44.3%, India 14.5%, China 7.1%, Japan 5.7% (2007)


Imports:

$2.942 billion f.o.b.
note: import figures are grossly underestimated due to the value of
consumer goods, diesel fuel, and other products smuggled in from
Thailand, China, Malaysia, and India (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

fabric, petroleum products, fertilizer, plastics, machinery,
transport equipment; cement, construction materials, crude oil; food
products, edible oil


Imports - partners:

China 33.7%, Thailand 19.1%, Singapore 15.5%, South Korea 5.8%,
Indonesia 5.2%, Malaysia 4.2% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$144.7 million (2005 est.)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$2.262 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$7.022 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

kyat (MMK)


Currency code:

MMK


Exchange rates:

kyats (MMK) per US dollar - 1,296 (2007), 1,280 (2006), 5.761
(2005), 5.7459 (2004), 6.0764 (2003)
note: unofficial exchange rates ranged in 2004 from 815 kyat/US
dollar to nearly 970 kyat/US dollar, and by yearend 2005, the
unofficial exchange rate was 1,075 kyat/US dollar; data shown for
2003-05 are official exchange rates


Communications
Burma



Telephones - main lines in use:

503,900 (2005)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

214,200 (2006)


Telephone system:

general assessment: meets minimum requirements for local and
intercity service for business and government
domestic: system barely capable of providing basic service; cellular
phone system is grossly underdeveloped with a subscribership base of
less than 1 per 100 persons
international: country code - 95; landing point for the SEA-ME-WE-3
optical telecommunications submarine cable that provides links to
Asia, the Middle East, and Europe; satellite earth stations - 2,
Intelsat (Indian Ocean) and ShinSat (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 3 (2007)


Radios:

4.2 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

4 (2008)


Televisions:

320,000 (2000)


Internet country code:

.mm


Internet hosts:

108 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1
note: as of September 2000, Internet connections were legal only for
the government, tourist offices, and a few large businesses (2000)


Internet users:

40,000 (2007)


Transportation
Burma



Airports:

86 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 25
over 3,047 m: 8
2,438 to 3,047 m: 10
1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 61
over 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 14
914 to 1,523 m: 14
under 914 m: 32 (2007)


Heliports:

4 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 2,790 km; oil 558 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 3,955 km
narrow gauge: 3,955 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 27,000 km
paved: 3,200 km
unpaved: 23,800 km (2006)


Waterways:

12,800 km (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 24
by type: bulk carrier 1, cargo 17, passenger 2, passenger/cargo 3,
specialized tanker 1
foreign-owned: 3 (Cyprus 1, Germany 1, Japan 1)
registered in other countries: 1 (Panama 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Moulmein, Rangoon, Sittwe


Military
Burma



Military branches:

Myanmar Armed Forces (Tatmadaw): Army, Navy, Air Force (Tatmadaw
Lay) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service for both sexes;
forced conscription of children, although officially prohibited,
reportedly continues (2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 13,402,788
females age 16-49: 13,437,042 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 9,031,046
females age 16-49: 9,396,547 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 423,809
female: 415,843 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

2.1% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Burma



Disputes - international:

over half of Burma's population consists of diverse ethnic groups
who have substantial numbers of kin in neighboring countries;
Thailand must deal with Karen and other ethnic refugees, asylum
seekers, and rebels, as well as illegal cross-border activities from
Burma; Thailand is studying the feasibility of jointly constructing
the Hatgyi Dam on the Salween River near the border with Burma;
citing environmental, cultural, and social concerns, China is
reconsidering construction of 13 dams on the Salween River but
energy-starved Burma with backing from Thailand remains intent on
building five hydro-electric dams downstream, despite identical
regional and international protests; India seeks cooperation from
Burma to keep Indian Nagaland separatists, such as the United
Liberation Front of Assam, from hiding in remote Burmese Uplands;
after 21 years, Bangladesh resumes talks with Burma on delimiting a
maritime boundary in January 2008


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

IDPs: 503,000 (government offensives against ethnic insurgent groups
near the eastern borders; most IDPs are ethnic Karen, Karenni, Shan,
Tavoyan, and Mon) (2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Burma is a source country for women, children,
and men trafficked for the purpose of forced labor and commercial
sexual exploitation; Burmese women and children are trafficked to
East and Southeast Asia for commercial sexual exploitation, domestic
servitude, and forced labor; Burmese children are subjected to
conditions of forced labor in Thailand as hawkers, beggars, and for
work in shops, agriculture, fish processing, and small-scale
industries; women are trafficked for commercial sexual exploitation
to Malaysia and China; some trafficking victims transit Burma from
Bangladesh to Malaysia and from China to Thailand; internal
trafficking occurs primarily from villages to urban centers and
economic hubs for labor in industrial zones, agricultural estates,
and commercial sexual exploitation; military and civilian officials
continue to use a significant amount of forced labor; ethnic
insurgent groups also used compulsory labor of adults and unlawful
recruitment of children; the military junta's gross economic
mismanagement, human rights abuses, and its policy of using forced
labor are the top causal factors for Burma's significant trafficking
problem
tier rating: Tier 3 - Burma does not fully comply with the minimum
standards for the elimination of trafficking and is not making
significant efforts to do so; military and civilian officials remain
directly involved in significant acts of forced labor and unlawful
conscription of child soldiers (2008)


Illicit drugs:

remains world's second-largest producer of illicit opium with an
estimated production in 2008 of 340 metric tons, an increase of 26%,
and cultivation in 2008 was 22,500 hectares, a 4% increase from
2007; production in the United Wa State Army's areas of greatest
control remains low; Shan state is the source of 94% of poppy
cultivation; lack of government will to take on major
narcotrafficking groups and lack of serious commitment against money
laundering continues to hinder the overall antidrug effort; major
source of methamphetamine and heroin for regional consumption;
currently under Financial Action Task Force countermeasures due to
continued failure to address its inadequate money-laundering
controls (2008)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Burundi

Introduction
Burundi



Background:

Burundi's first democratically elected president was assassinated in
October 1993 after only 100 days in office, triggering widespread
ethnic violence between Hutu and Tutsi factions. More than 200,000
Burundians perished during the conflict that spanned almost a dozen
years. Hundreds of thousands of Burundians were internally displaced
or became refugees in neighboring countries. An internationally
brokered power-sharing agreement between the Tutsi-dominated
government and the Hutu rebels in 2003 paved the way for a
transition process that led to an integrated defense force,
established a new constitution in 2005, and elected a majority Hutu
government in 2005. The new government, led by President Pierre
NKURUNZIZA, signed a South African brokered ceasefire with the
country's last rebel group in September of 2006 but still faces many
challenges.


Geography
Burundi



Location:

Central Africa, east of Democratic Republic of the Congo


Geographic coordinates:

3 30 S, 30 00 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 27,830 sq km
land: 25,650 sq km
water: 2,180 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Maryland


Land boundaries:

total: 974 km
border countries: Democratic Republic of the Congo 233 km, Rwanda
290 km, Tanzania 451 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

equatorial; high plateau with considerable altitude variation (772 m
to 2,670 m above sea level); average annual temperature varies with
altitude from 23 to 17 degrees centigrade but is generally moderate
as the average altitude is about 1,700 m; average annual rainfall is
about 150 cm; two wet seasons (February to May and September to
November), and two dry seasons (June to August and December to
January)


Terrain:

hilly and mountainous, dropping to a plateau in east, some plains


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Lake Tanganyika 772 m
highest point: Heha 2,670 m


Natural resources:

nickel, uranium, rare earth oxides, peat, cobalt, copper, platinum,
vanadium, arable land, hydropower, niobium, tantalum, gold, tin,
tungsten, kaolin, limestone


Land use:

arable land: 35.57%
permanent crops: 13.12%
other: 51.31% (2005)


Irrigated land:

210 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

3.6 cu km (1987)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.29 cu km/yr (17%/6%/77%)
per capita: 38 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

flooding, landslides, drought


Environment - current issues:

soil erosion as a result of overgrazing and the expansion of
agriculture into marginal lands; deforestation (little forested land
remains because of uncontrolled cutting of trees for fuel); habitat
loss threatens wildlife populations


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea


Geography - note:

landlocked; straddles crest of the Nile-Congo watershed; the Kagera,
which drains into Lake Victoria, is the most remote headstream of
the White Nile


People
Burundi



Population:

8,691,005
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 46.3% (male 2,021,320/female 1,998,502)
15-64 years: 51.2% (male 2,210,157/female 2,240,921)
65 years and over: 2.5% (male 87,600/female 132,505) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 16.7 years
male: 16.4 years
female: 17 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

3.443% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

41.72 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

12.91 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

5.62 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.66 male(s)/female
total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 60.77 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 67.6 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 53.73 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 51.71 years
male: 50.86 years
female: 52.6 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

6.4 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

6% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

250,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

25,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne disease: malaria (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Burundian(s)
adjective: Burundian


Ethnic groups:

Hutu (Bantu) 85%, Tutsi (Hamitic) 14%, Twa (Pygmy) 1%, Europeans
3,000, South Asians 2,000


Religions:

Christian 67% (Roman Catholic 62%, Protestant 5%), indigenous
beliefs 23%, Muslim 10%


Languages:

Kirundi (official), French (official), Swahili (along Lake
Tanganyika and in the Bujumbura area)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 59.3%
male: 67.3%
female: 52.2% (2000 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 7 years
male: 8 years
female: 7 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

5.1% of GDP (2005)


Government
Burundi



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Burundi
conventional short form: Burundi
local long form: Republique du Burundi/Republika y'u Burundi
local short form: Burundi
former: Urundi


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Bujumbura
geographic coordinates: 3 22 S, 29 21 E
time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

17 provinces; Bubanza, Bujumbura Mairie, Bujumbura Rurale, Bururi,
Cankuzo, Cibitoke, Gitega, Karuzi, Kayanza, Kirundo, Makamba,
Muramvya, Muyinga, Mwaro, Ngozi, Rutana, Ruyigi


Independence:

1 July 1962 (from UN trusteeship under Belgian administration)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 1 July (1962)


Constitution:

28 February 2005; ratified by popular referendum


Legal system:

based on German and Belgian civil codes and customary law; has not
accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

NA years of age; universal (adult)


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Pierre NKURUNZIZA (since 26 August 2005);
First Vice President Yves SAVINGUVU - Tutsi (since 9 November 2007);
Second Vice President Gabriel NTISEZERANA - Hutu (since 9 February
2007); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government
head of government: President Pierre NKURUNZIZA (since 26 August
2005); First Vice President Yves SAVINGUVU - Tutsi (since 9 November
2007); Second Vice President Gabriel NTISEZERANA - Hutu (since 9
February 2007)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by president
elections: the president is elected by popular vote to a five-year
term (eligible for a second term); note - the constitution adopted
in February 2005 permits the post-transition president to be elected
by a two-thirds majority of the parliament; vice presidents
nominated by the president, endorsed by parliament
election results: Pierre NKURUNZIZA was elected president by the
parliament by a vote of 151 to 9; note - the constitution adopted in
February 2005 permits the post-transition president to be elected by
a two-thirds majority of the legislature


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament or Parlement, consists of a National Assembly
or Assemblee Nationale (minimum 100 seats, 60% Hutu and 40% Tutsi
with at least 30% being women; additional seats appointed by a
National Independent Electoral Commission to ensure ethnic
representation; members are elected by popular vote to serve
five-year terms) and a Senate (54 seats; 34 members elected by
indirect vote to serve five-year terms, with remaining seats
assigned to ethnic groups and former chiefs of state)
elections: National Assembly - last held 4 July 2005 (next to be
held in 2010); Senate - last held 29 July 2005 (next to be held in
2010)
election results: National Assembly - percent of vote by party -
CNDD-FDD 58.6%, FRODEBU 21.7%, UPRONA 7.2%, CNDD 4.1%,
MRC-Rurenzangemero 2.1%, others 6.2%; seats by party - CNDD-FDD 59,
FRODEBU 25, UPRONA 10, CNDD 4, MRC-Rurenzangemero 2; Senate -
percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - CNDD-FDD 30,
FRODEBU 3, CNDD 1


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court or Cour Supreme; Constitutional Court; High Court of
Justice (composed of the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court)


Political parties and leaders:

governing parties: Burundi Democratic Front or FRODEBU [Leonce
NGENDAKUMANA]; National Council for the Defense of Democracy - Front
for the Defense of Democracy or CNDD-FDD [Jeremie NGENDAKUMANA];
Unity for National Progress or UPRONA [Aloys RUBUKA]
note: a multiparty system was introduced after 1998, included are:
National Council for the Defense of Democracy or CNDD [Leonard
NYANGOMA]; National Resistance Movement for the Rehabilitation of
the Citizen or MRC-Rurenzangemero [Epitace BANYAGANAKANDI]; Party
for National Redress or PARENA [Jean-Baptiste BAGAZA]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Observatoire de lutte contre la corruption et les malversations
economiques or OLUCOME [Gabriel RUFYIRI] (anti-corruption pressure
group)
other: Hutu and Tutsi militias (loosely organized)


International organization participation:

ACCT, ACP, AfDB, AU, CEPGL, COMESA, EAC, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO,
ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
IPU, ISO (subscriber), ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OIF, OPCW, UN, UNAMID,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Celestin NIYONGABO
chancery: Suite 212, 2233 Wisconsin Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20007
telephone: [1] (202) 342-2574
FAX: [1] (202) 342-2578


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Patricia Newton MOLLER
embassy: Avenue des Etats-Unis, Bujumbura
mailing address: B. P. 1720, Bujumbura
telephone: [257] 223454
FAX: [257] 222926


Flag description:

divided by a white diagonal cross into red panels (top and bottom)
and green panels (hoist side and fly side) with a white disk
superimposed at the center bearing three red six-pointed stars
outlined in green arranged in a triangular design (one star above,
two stars below)


Economy
Burundi



Economy - overview:

Burundi is a landlocked, resource-poor country with an
underdeveloped manufacturing sector. The economy is predominantly
agricultural with more than 90% of the population dependent on
subsistence agriculture. Economic growth depends on coffee and tea
exports, which account for 90% of foreign exchange earnings. The
ability to pay for imports, therefore, rests primarily on weather
conditions and international coffee and tea prices. The Tutsi
minority, 14% of the population, dominates the government and the
coffee trade at the expense of the Hutu majority, 85% of the
population. An ethnic-based war that lasted for over a decade
resulted in more than 200,000 deaths, forced more than 48,000
refugees into Tanzania, and displaced 140,000 others internally.
Only one in two children go to school, and approximately one in 15
adults has HIV/AIDS. Food, medicine, and electricity remain in short
supply. Burundi's GDP grew around 5% annually in 2006-07. Political
stability and the end of the civil war have improved aid flows and
economic activity has increased, but underlying weaknesses - a high
poverty rate, poor education rates, a weak legal system, and low
administrative capacity - risk undermining planned economic reforms.
Burundi will continue to remain heavily dependent on aid from
bilateral and multilateral donors; the delay of funds after a
corruption scandal cut off bilateral aid in 2007 reduced
government's revenues and its ability to pay salaries.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$2.907 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$1.001 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

3.6% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$300 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 33.7%
industry: 20.9%
services: 45.4% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

2.99 million (2002)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 93.6%
industry: 2.3%
services: 4.1% (2002 est.)


Unemployment rate:

NA%


Population below poverty line:

68% (2002 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 1.7%
highest 10%: 32.8% (1998)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

42.4 (1998)


Investment (gross fixed):

24.4% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $264.2 million
expenditures: $335.4 million; including capital expenditures of $NA
(2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

8.3% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

10.12% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

16.84% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$208.7 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$141 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$342 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

coffee, cotton, tea, corn, sorghum, sweet potatoes, bananas, manioc
(tapioca); beef, milk, hides


Industries:

light consumer goods such as blankets, shoes, soap; assembly of
imported components; public works construction; food processing


Industrial production growth rate:

6.4% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

87 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

120.9 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

40 million kWh; note - supplied by the Democratic Republic of the
Congo (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 0.6%
hydro: 99.4%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

2,956 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

2,635 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$101 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$44 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

coffee, tea, sugar, cotton, hides


Exports - partners:

Germany 31.3%, Pakistan 6.8%, Belgium 5.8%, Sweden 4.3%, Rwanda
4.3%, France 4.2%, Sudan 4% (2007)


Imports:

$272 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

capital goods, petroleum products, foodstuffs


Imports - partners:

Saudi Arabia 17%, Kenya 11.4%, Belgium 8.7%, France 6.1%, Uganda
5.4%, Germany 5.4%, India 4.8%, Pakistan 4.2% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$365 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$177.1 million (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$1.2 billion (2003)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Burundi franc (BIF)


Currency code:

BIF


Exchange rates:

Burundi francs (BIF) per US dollar - 1,065 (2007), 1,030 (2006),
1,138 (2005), 1,100.91 (2004), 1,082.62 (2003)


Communications
Burundi



Telephones - main lines in use:

35,000 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

250,000 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: primitive system; telephone density one of the
lowest in the world; fixed-line connections stand at well less than
1 per 100 persons; mobile-cellular usage is increasing but remains
at a meager 3 per 100 persons
domestic: sparse system of open-wire, radiotelephone communications,
and low-capacity microwave radio relay
international: country code - 257; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Indian Ocean) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 0, FM 4, shortwave 1 (2001)


Radios:

440,000 (2001)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (2001)


Televisions:

25,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.bi


Internet hosts:

162 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

60,000 (2006)


Transportation
Burundi



Airports:

8 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
over 3,047 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 7
914 to 1,523 m: 4
under 914 m: 3 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 12,322 km
paved: 1,286 km
unpaved: 11,036 km (2004)


Waterways:

mainly on Lake Tanganyika (2005)


Ports and terminals:

Bujumbura


Military
Burundi



Military branches:

National Defense Force (Forces de Defense Nationales, FDN): Army
(includes Naval Detachment and Air Wing), Gendarmerie (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

16 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military service;
children as young as 10 years of age have been conscripted into the
armed forces; the enrollment of children is still not prohibited
(2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,878,544
females age 16-49: 1,851,676 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,083,899
females age 16-49: 1,062,488 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 98,105
female: 98,533 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

5.9% of GDP (2006 est.)


Transnational Issues
Burundi



Disputes - international:

Burundi and Rwanda dispute sections of border on the
Akanyaru/Kanyaru and the Kagera/Nyabarongo rivers, which have
changed course since the 1960s, when the boundary was delimited;
cross-border conflicts among Tutsi, Hutu, other ethnic groups,
associated political rebels, armed gangs, and various government
forces persist in the Great Lakes region


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 9,849 (Democratic Republic of the
Congo)
IDPs: 100,000 (armed conflict between government and rebels; most
IDPs in northern and western Burundi) (2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Burundi is a source country for children
trafficked for the purposes of child soldiering, domestic servitude,
and commercial sexual exploitation; a small number of Burundian
children may be trafficked internally for domestic servitude or
commercial sexual exploitation; in early 2008, Burundian children
were allegedly trafficked to Uganda, via Rwanda, for agricultural
labor and commercial sexual exploitation
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Burundi is on the Tier 2 Watch List
for the second consecutive year for its failure to provide
sufficient evidence of increasing efforts to combat trafficking in
persons in 2007; the government's inability to provide adequate
protective services to children accused of association with armed
groups and to conduct anti-trafficking law enforcement activities
continue to be causes for concern; Burundi has not ratified the 2000
UN TIP Protocol (2008)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Cambodia

Introduction
Cambodia



Background:

Most Cambodians consider themselves to be Khmers, descendants of the
Angkor Empire that extended over much of Southeast Asia and reached
its zenith between the 10th and 13th centuries. Attacks by the Thai
and Cham (from present-day Vietnam) weakened the empire, ushering in
a long period of decline. The king placed the country under French
protection in 1863 and it became part of French Indochina in 1887.
Following Japanese occupation in World War II, Cambodia gained full
independence from France in 1953. In April 1975, after a five-year
struggle, Communist Khmer Rouge forces captured Phnom Penh and
evacuated all cities and towns. At least 1.5 million Cambodians died
from execution, forced hardships, or starvation during the Khmer
Rouge regime under POL POT. A December 1978 Vietnamese invasion
drove the Khmer Rouge into the countryside, began a 10-year
Vietnamese occupation, and touched off almost 13 years of civil war.
The 1991 Paris Peace Accords mandated democratic elections and a
ceasefire, which was not fully respected by the Khmer Rouge.
UN-sponsored elections in 1993 helped restore some semblance of
normalcy under a coalition government. Factional fighting in 1997
ended the first coalition government, but a second round of national
elections in 1998 led to the formation of another coalition
government and renewed political stability. The remaining elements
of the Khmer Rouge surrendered in early 1999. Some of the remaining
Khmer Rouge leaders are awaiting trial by a UN-sponsored tribunal
for crimes against humanity. Elections in July 2003 were relatively
peaceful, but it took one year of negotiations between contending
political parties before a coalition government was formed. In
October 2004, King SIHANOUK abdicated the throne due to illness and
his son, Prince Norodom SIHAMONI, was selected to succeed him. Local
elections were held in Cambodia in April 2007, and there was little
in the way of pre-election violence that preceded prior elections.
National elections are scheduled for July 2008.


Geography
Cambodia



Location:

Southeastern Asia, bordering the Gulf of Thailand, between Thailand,
Vietnam, and Laos


Geographic coordinates:

13 00 N, 105 00 E


Map references:

Southeast Asia


Area:

total: 181,040 sq km
land: 176,520 sq km
water: 4,520 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Oklahoma


Land boundaries:

total: 2,572 km
border countries: Laos 541 km, Thailand 803 km, Vietnam 1,228 km


Coastline:

443 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; rainy, monsoon season (May to November); dry season
(December to April); little seasonal temperature variation


Terrain:

mostly low, flat plains; mountains in southwest and north


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Gulf of Thailand 0 m
highest point: Phnum Aoral 1,810 m


Natural resources:

oil and gas, timber, gemstones, iron ore, manganese, phosphates,
hydropower potential


Land use:

arable land: 20.44%
permanent crops: 0.59%
other: 78.97% (2005)


Irrigated land:

2,700 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

476.1 cu km (1999)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 4.08 cu km/yr (1%/0%/98%)
per capita: 290 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

monsoonal rains (June to November); flooding; occasional droughts


Environment - current issues:

illegal logging activities throughout the country and strip mining
for gems in the western region along the border with Thailand have
resulted in habitat loss and declining biodiversity (in particular,
destruction of mangrove swamps threatens natural fisheries); soil
erosion; in rural areas, most of the population does not have access
to potable water; declining fish stocks because of illegal fishing
and overfishing


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea


Geography - note:

a land of paddies and forests dominated by the Mekong River and
Tonle Sap


People
Cambodia



Population:

14,241,640
note: estimates for this country take into account the effects of
excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower life
expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 33.2% (male 2,389,668/female 2,338,838)
15-64 years: 63.2% (male 4,372,480/female 4,627,895)
65 years and over: 3.6% (male 193,338/female 319,421) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 21.7 years
male: 21 years
female: 22.5 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.752% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

25.68 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

8.16 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.04 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.94 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.6 male(s)/female
total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 56.59 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 63.76 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 49.1 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 61.69 years
male: 59.65 years
female: 63.83 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

3.08 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

2.6% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

170,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

15,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: dengue fever, Japanese encephalitis, and
malaria
note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Cambodian(s)
adjective: Cambodian


Ethnic groups:

Khmer 90%, Vietnamese 5%, Chinese 1%, other 4%


Religions:

Theravada Buddhist 95%, other 5%


Languages:

Khmer (official) 95%, French, English


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 73.6%
male: 84.7%
female: 64.1% (2004 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 10 years
male: 10 years
female: 9 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

1.7% of GDP (2004)


Government
Cambodia



Country name:

conventional long form: Kingdom of Cambodia
conventional short form: Cambodia
local long form: Preahreacheanachakr Kampuchea (phonetic
pronunciation)
local short form: Kampuchea
former: Khmer Republic, Democratic Kampuchea, People's Republic of
Kampuchea, State of Cambodia


Government type:

multiparty democracy under a constitutional monarchy


Capital:

name: Phnom Penh
geographic coordinates: 11 33 N, 104 55 E
time difference: UTC+7 (12 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

20 provinces (khaitt, singular and plural) and 4 municipalities*
(krong, singular and plural)
provinces: Banteay Mean Cheay, Batdambang, Kampong Cham, Kampong
Chhnang, Kampong Spoe, Kampong Thum, Kampot, Kandal, Kaoh Kong,
Krachen, Mondol Kiri, Otdar Mean Cheay, Pouthisat, Preah Vihear,
Prey Veng, Rotanah Kiri, Siem Reab, Stoeng Treng, Svay Rieng, Takev
municipalities: Keb, Pailin, Phnum Penh (Phnom Penh), Preah Seihanu
(Sihanoukville)


Independence:

9 November 1953 (from France)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 9 November (1953)


Constitution:

promulgated 21 September 1993


Legal system:

primarily a civil law mixture of French-influenced codes from the
United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC) period,
royal decrees, and acts of the legislature, with influences of
customary law and remnants of communist legal theory; increasing
influence of common law; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with
reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: King Norodom SIHAMONI (since 29 October 2004)
head of government: Prime Minister HUN SEN (since 14 January 1985)
[co-prime minister from 1993 to 1997]; Permanent Deputy Prime
Minister MEN SAM AN (since 25 September 2008); Deputy Prime
Ministers SAR KHENG (since 3 February 1992); SOK AN, TEA BANH, HOR
NAMHONG, NHEK BUNCHHAY (since 16 July 2004); BIN CHHIN (since 5
September 2007); KEAT CHHON, YIM CHHAI LY (since 25 September 2008)
cabinet: Council of Ministers in theory appointed by the monarch; in
practice named by the prime minister
elections: the monarch is chosen by a Royal Throne Council;
following legislative elections, a member of the majority party or
majority coalition is named prime minister by the Chairman of the
National Assembly and appointed by the king


Legislative branch:

bicameral, consists of the National Assembly (123 seats; members
elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms) and the Senate (61
seats; 2 members appointed by the monarch, 2 elected by the National
Assembly, and 57 elected by parliamentarians and commune councils;
members serve five-year terms)
elections: National Assembly - last held 27 July 2008 (next to be
held in July 2013); Senate - last held 22 January 2006 (next to be
held in January 2011)
election results: National Assembly - percent of vote by party - CPP
58%, SRP 22%, others 20%; seats by party - CPP 90, SRP 26, others 7;
Senate - percent of vote by party - CPP 69%, FUNCINPEC 21%, SRP 10%;
seats by party - CPP 45, FUNCINPEC 10, SRP 2


Judicial branch:

Supreme Council of the Magistracy (provided for in the constitution
and formed in December 1997); Supreme Court (and lower courts)
exercises judicial authority


Political parties and leaders:

Cambodian People's Party or CPP [CHEA SIM]; National United Front
for an Independent, Neutral, Peaceful, and Cooperative Cambodia or
FUNCINPEC [KEV PUT REAKSMEI]; Norodom Ranariddh Party or NRP
[Norodom RANARIDDH]; Sam Rangsi Party or SRP [SAM RANGSI]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Cambodian Freedom Fighters or CFF; Partnership for Transparency Fund
or PTF (anti-corruption organization); Students Movement for
Democracy; The Committee for Free and Fair Elections or Comfrel
other: human rights organizations; vendors


International organization participation:

ACCT, ADB, APT, ARF, ASEAN, EAS, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM,
IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO
(subscriber), ITU, MIGA, NAM, OIF, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNIDO, UNMIS, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires MENG EANG
NAY
chancery: 4530 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20011
telephone: [1] (202) 726-7742
FAX: [1] (202) 726-8381


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Carol A. RODLEY
embassy: #1, Street 96, Sangkat Wat Phnom, Khan Daun Penh, Phnom Penh
mailing address: Box P, APO AP 96546
telephone: [855] (23) 728-000
FAX: [855] (23) 728-600


Flag description:

three horizontal bands of blue (top), red (double width), and blue
with a white three-towered temple representing Angkor Wat outlined
in black in the center of the red band
note: only national flag to incorporate an actual building in its
design


Economy
Cambodia



Economy - overview:

From 2001 to 2004, the economy grew at an average rate of 6.4%,
driven largely by an expansion in the garment sector and tourism.
The US and Cambodia signed a Bilateral Textile Agreement, which gave
Cambodia a guaranteed quota of US textile imports and established a
bonus for improving working conditions and enforcing Cambodian labor
laws and international labor standards in the industry. With the
January 2005 expiration of a WTO Agreement on Textiles and Clothing,
Cambodia-based textile producers were forced to compete directly
with lower-priced producing countries such as China and India.
Better-than-expected garment sector performance led to more than 9%
growth in 2007. Its vibrant garment industry employs more than
350,000 people and contributes more than 70% of Cambodia's exports.
The Cambodian government has committed itself to a policy supporting
high labor standards in an attempt to maintain buyer interest. In
2005, exploitable oil and natural gas deposits were found beneath
Cambodia's territorial waters, representing a new revenue stream for
the government if commercial extraction begins. Mining also is
attracting significant investor interest, particularly in the
northeastern parts of the country, and the government has said
opportunities exist for mining bauxite, gold, iron and gems. In
2006, a US-Cambodia bilateral Trade and Investment Framework
Agreement (TIFA) was signed and the first round of discussions took
place in early 2007. The tourism industry continues to grow rapidly,
with foreign arrivals reaching 2 million in 2007. In 2007 the
government signed a joint venture agreement with two companies to
form a new national airline. The long-term development of the
economy remains a daunting challenge. The Cambodian government is
working with bilateral and multilateral donors, including the World
Bank and IMF, to address the country's many pressing needs. The
major economic challenge for Cambodia over the next decade will be
fashioning an economic environment in which the private sector can
create enough jobs to handle Cambodia's demographic imbalance. More
than 50% of the population is less than 21 years old. The population
lacks education and productive skills, particularly in the
poverty-ridden countryside, which suffers from an almost total lack
of basic infrastructure.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$26.19 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$8.604 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

10.1% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$1,900 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 31%
industry: 26%
services: 43% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

7 million (2003 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 75%
industry: NA%
services: NA%


Unemployment rate:

2.5% (2000 est.)


Population below poverty line:

35% (2004)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.9%
highest 10%: 34.8% (2004)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

41.7 (2004 est.)


Investment (gross fixed):

19.2% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $1.015 billion
expenditures: $1.168 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

5.9% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

5.25% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$513.6 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$2.309 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$1.131 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

rice, rubber, corn, vegetables, cashews, tapioca


Industries:

tourism, garments, rice milling, fishing, wood and wood products,
rubber, cement, gem mining, textiles


Industrial production growth rate:

15% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

1.163 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

1.178 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

110 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 65%
hydro: 35%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

3,736 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

3,618 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

NA


Current account balance:

-$506.3 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$4.089 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

clothing, timber, rubber, rice, fish, tobacco, footwear


Exports - partners:

US 58.1%, Germany 7.3%, UK 5.2%, Canada 4.6%, Vietnam 4.5% (2007)


Imports:

$5.424 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

petroleum products, cigarettes, gold, construction materials,
machinery, motor vehicles, pharmaceutical products


Imports - partners:

Thailand 23.1%, Vietnam 16.9%, China 15%, Hong Kong 10.4%, Singapore
7.5%, Taiwan 7.2%, South Korea 4.8% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$698.2 million pledged in grants and concession loans for 2007 by
international donors (2007)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$2.143 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$3.89 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

riel (KHR)


Currency code:

KHR


Exchange rates:

riels (KHR) per US dollar - 4,006 (2007), 4,103 (2006), 4,092.5
(2005), 4,016.25 (2004), 3,973.33 (2003)


Communications
Cambodia



Telephones - main lines in use:

37,500 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

2.583 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: mobile-phone systems are widely used in urban
areas to bypass deficiencies in the fixed-line network; fixed-line
connections stand at well less than 1 per 100 persons;
mobile-cellular usage, aided by increasing competition among service
providers, is increasing and stands at nearly 20 per 100 persons
domestic: adequate landline and/or cellular service in Phnom Penh
and other provincial cities; mobile-phone coverage is rapidly
expanding in rural areas
international: country code - 855; adequate but expensive landline
and cellular service available to all countries from Phnom Penh and
major provincial cities; satellite earth station - 1 Intersputnik
(Indian Ocean region) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 2, FM 17, shortwave NA (2003)


Radios:

1.34 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

9 (including 2 TV relay stations with French and Vietnamese
broadcasts); excludes 18 regional relay stations (2006)


Televisions:

94,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.kh


Internet hosts:

1,230 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

2 (2000)


Internet users:

70,000 (2007)


Transportation
Cambodia



Airports:

17 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 6
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 2 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 11
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 9
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Railways:

total: 602 km
narrow gauge: 602 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 38,257 km
paved: 2,406 km
unpaved: 35,851 km (2004)


Waterways:

2,400 km (mainly on Mekong River) (2005)


Merchant marine:

total: 626
by type: bulk carrier 41, cargo 530, carrier 3, chemical tanker 10,
container 8, passenger/cargo 6, petroleum tanker 11, refrigerated
cargo 15, roll on/roll off 1, vehicle carrier 1
foreign-owned: 467 (Canada 2, China 193, Cyprus 7, Egypt 13, Gabon
1, Greece 3, Hong Kong 8, Indonesia 2, Japan 1, South Korea 22,
Latvia 1, Lebanon 8, Netherlands 1, Romania 1, Russia 83, Singapore
4, Syria 48, Taiwan 1, Turkey 26, Ukraine 34, UAE 2, US 6) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Phnom Penh, Kampong Saom (Sihanoukville)


Military
Cambodia



Military branches:

Royal Cambodian Armed Forces: Royal Cambodian Army, Royal Khmer
Navy, Royal Cambodian Air Force (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

conscription law of October 2006 requires all males between 18-30 to
register for military service; 18-month service obligation (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 3,759,034
females age 16-49: 3,784,333 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,581,045
females age 16-49: 2,676,075 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 185,959
female: 182,558 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

3% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Cambodia



Disputes - international:

Cambodia and Thailand dispute sections of boundary with missing
boundary markers and claims of Thai encroachments into Cambodian
territory; maritime boundary with Vietnam is hampered by unresolved
dispute over sovereignty of offshore islands; Thailand accuses
Cambodia of obstructing inclusion of Thai areas near Preah Vihear
temple ruins, awarded to Cambodia by ICJ decision in 1962, as part
of a planned UN World Heritage site


Illicit drugs:

narcotics-related corruption reportedly involving some in the
government, military, and police; limited methamphetamine
production; vulnerable to money laundering due to its cash-based
economy and porous borders



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Cameroon

Introduction
Cameroon



Background:

The former French Cameroon and part of British Cameroon merged in
1961 to form the present country. Cameroon has generally enjoyed
stability, which has permitted the development of agriculture,
roads, and railways, as well as a petroleum industry. Despite a slow
movement toward democratic reform, political power remains firmly in
the hands of President Paul BIYA.


Geography
Cameroon



Location:

Western Africa, bordering the Bight of Biafra, between Equatorial
Guinea and Nigeria


Geographic coordinates:

6 00 N, 12 00 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 475,440 sq km
land: 469,440 sq km
water: 6,000 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than California


Land boundaries:

total: 4,591 km
border countries: Central African Republic 797 km, Chad 1,094 km,
Republic of the Congo 523 km, Equatorial Guinea 189 km, Gabon 298
km, Nigeria 1,690 km


Coastline:

402 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm


Climate:

varies with terrain, from tropical along coast to semiarid and hot
in north


Terrain:

diverse, with coastal plain in southwest, dissected plateau in
center, mountains in west, plains in north


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Fako 4,095 m (on Mt. Cameroon)


Natural resources:

petroleum, bauxite, iron ore, timber, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 12.54%
permanent crops: 2.52%
other: 84.94% (2005)


Irrigated land:

260 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

285.5 cu km (2003)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.99 cu km/yr (18%/8%/74%)
per capita: 61 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

volcanic activity with periodic releases of poisonous gases from
Lake Nyos and Lake Monoun volcanoes


Environment - current issues:

waterborne diseases are prevalent; deforestation; overgrazing;
desertification; poaching; overfishing


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

sometimes referred to as the hinge of Africa; throughout the country
there are areas of thermal springs and indications of current or
prior volcanic activity; Mount Cameroon, the highest mountain in
Sub-Saharan west Africa, is an active volcano


People
Cameroon



Population:

18,467,692
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 41.1% (male 3,826,232/female 3,757,859)
15-64 years: 55.7% (male 5,164,338/female 5,122,817)
65 years and over: 3.2% (male 274,821/female 321,625) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 19 years
male: 18.9 years
female: 19.2 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.218% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

34.59 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

12.41 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.85 male(s)/female
total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 64.57 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 69.39 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 59.62 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 53.3 years
male: 52.54 years
female: 54.08 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

4.41 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

6.9% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

560,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

49,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A and E, and typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: malaria and yellow fever
water contact disease: schistosomiasis
respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis
animal contact disease: rabies (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Cameroonian(s)
adjective: Cameroonian


Ethnic groups:

Cameroon Highlanders 31%, Equatorial Bantu 19%, Kirdi 11%, Fulani
10%, Northwestern Bantu 8%, Eastern Nigritic 7%, other African 13%,
non-African less than 1%


Religions:

indigenous beliefs 40%, Christian 40%, Muslim 20%


Languages:

24 major African language groups, English (official), French
(official)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 67.9%
male: 77%
female: 59.8% (2001 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 9 years
male: 10 years
female: 8 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

3.3% of GDP (2006)


Government
Cameroon



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Cameroon
conventional short form: Cameroon
local long form: Republique du Cameroun/Republic of Cameroon
local short form: Cameroun/Cameroon
former: French Cameroon, British Cameroon, Federal Republic of
Cameroon, United Republic of Cameroon


Government type:

republic; multiparty presidential regime


Capital:

name: Yaounde
geographic coordinates: 3 52 N, 11 31 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

10 provinces; Adamaoua, Centre, Est, Extreme-Nord, Littoral, Nord,
Nord-Ouest, Ouest, Sud, Sud-Ouest


Independence:

1 January 1960 (from French-administered UN trusteeship)


National holiday:

Republic Day (National Day), 20 May (1972)


Constitution:

20 May 1972 approved by referendum, adopted 2 June 1972; revised
January 1996


Legal system:

based on French civil law system, with common law influence; accepts
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

20 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Paul BIYA (since 6 November 1982)
head of government: Prime Minister Ephraim INONI (since 8 December
2004)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president from proposals submitted
by the prime minister
elections: president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 11 October 2004
(next to be held by October 2011); prime minister appointed by the
president
election results: President Paul BIYA reelected; percent of vote -
Paul BIYA 70.9%, John FRU NDI 17.4%, Adamou Ndam NJOYA 4.5%, Garga
Haman ADJI 3.7%


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale (180 seats;
members are elected by direct popular vote to serve five-year
terms); note - the president can either lengthen or shorten the term
of the legislature
elections: last held 22 July 2007 (next to be held in 2012)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
RDCP 140, SDF 14, UDC 4, UNDP 4, MP 1, vacant 17; note - vacant
seats will be determined in a yet to be scheduled by-election after
the Supreme Court nullified results in five districts
note: the constitution calls for an upper chamber for the
legislature, to be called a Senate, but it has yet to be established


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the president); High Court of
Justice (consists of nine judges and six substitute judges, elected
by the National Assembly)


Political parties and leaders:

Cameroonian Democratic Union or UDC [Adamou Ndam NJOYA]; Cameroon
People's Democratic Movement or RDPC [Paul BIYA]; Movement for the
Defense of the Republic or MDR [Dakole DAISSALA]; Movement for the
Liberation and Development of Cameroon or MLDC [Marcel YONDO];
National Union for Democracy and Progress or UNDP [Maigari BELLO
BOUBA]; Progressive Movement or MP; Social Democratic Front or SDF
[John FRU NDI]; Union of Peoples of Cameroon or UPC [Augustin
Frederic KODOCK]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Human Rights Defense Group [Albert MUKONG, president]; Southern
Cameroon National Council [Ayamba Ette OTUN]


International organization participation:

ACCT, ACP, AfDB, AU, BDEAC, C, CEMAC, FAO, FZ, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
ICAO, ICC, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO,
IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITSO,
ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OIC, OIF, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Joseph FOE-ATANGANA
chancery: 2349 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 265-8790
FAX: [1] (202) 387-3826


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Janet E. GARVEY
embassy: Avenue Rosa Parks, Yaounde
mailing address: P. O. Box 817, Yaounde; pouch: American Embassy, US
Department of State, Washington, DC 20521-2520
telephone: [237] 2220 15 00; Consular: [237] 2220 16 03
FAX: [237] 2220 16 00 Ext. 4531; Consular FAX: [237] 2220 17 52
branch office(s): Douala


Flag description:

three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), red, and yellow
with a yellow five-pointed star centered in the red band
note: uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia


Economy
Cameroon



Economy - overview:

Because of its modest oil resources and favorable agricultural
conditions, Cameroon has one of the best-endowed primary commodity
economies in sub-Saharan Africa. Still, it faces many of the serious
problems facing other underdeveloped countries, such as a top-heavy
civil service and a generally unfavorable climate for business
enterprise. Since 1990, the government has embarked on various IMF
and World Bank programs designed to spur business investment,
increase efficiency in agriculture, improve trade, and recapitalize
the nation's banks. In June 2000, the government completed an
IMF-sponsored, three-year structural adjustment program; however,
the IMF is pressing for more reforms, including increased budget
transparency, privatization, and poverty reduction programs. In
January 2001, the Paris Club agreed to reduce Cameroon's debt of
$1.3 billion by $900 million; debt relief now totals $1.26 billion.
International oil and cocoa prices have a significant impact on the
economy.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$40.24 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$20.65 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

2.7% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$2,200 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 43.9%
industry: 15.8%
services: 40.3% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

6.674 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 70%
industry: 13%
services: 17% (2001 est.)


Unemployment rate:

30% (2001 est.)


Population below poverty line:

48% (2000 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.3%
highest 10%: 35.4% (2001)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

44.6 (2001)


Investment (gross fixed):

17.3% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $4.179 billion
expenditures: $3.297 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 July - 30 June


Public debt:

15.5% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

1.1% (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

15% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$2.616 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$1.698 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$1.3 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

coffee, cocoa, cotton, rubber, bananas, oilseed, grains, root
starches; livestock; timber


Industries:

petroleum production and refining, aluminum production, food
processing, light consumer goods, textiles, lumber, ship repair


Industrial production growth rate:

3.5% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

3.903 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

3.323 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 2.7%
hydro: 97.3%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

87,400 bbl/day (2008 est.)


Oil - consumption:

24,500 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

108,800 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

50,750 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

200 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

20 million cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

20 million cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

135.1 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$325 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$3.827 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

crude oil and petroleum products, lumber, cocoa beans, aluminum,
coffee, cotton


Exports - partners:

Spain 19.8%, Italy 15.7%, France 11.7%, South Korea 9.4%,
Netherlands 6.1%, US 5.7% (2007)


Imports:

$3.714 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery, electrical equipment, transport equipment, fuel, food


Imports - partners:

France 23.4%, Nigeria 12.8%, China 9%, Belgium 5.8%, US 4% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$413.8 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$2.932 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$2.554 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XAF); note - responsible
authority is the Bank of the Central African States


Currency code:

XAF


Exchange rates:

Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XAF) per US dollar - 493.51
(2007), 522.59 (2006), 527.47 (2005), 528.29 (2004), 581.2 (2003)


Communications
Cameroon



Telephones - main lines in use:

130,700 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

4.536 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: fixed-line connections stand at less than 1 per
100 persons; equipment is old and outdated, and connections with
many parts of the country are unreliable; mobile-cellular usage, in
part a reflection of the poor condition and general inadequacy of
the fixed-line network, increased more than 6-fold between 2002 and
2007 reaching a subscribership base of 25 per 100 persons
domestic: cable, microwave radio relay, and tropospheric scatter
international: country code - 237; landing point for the SAT-3/WASC
fiber-optic submarine cable that provides connectivity to Europe and
Asia; satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 2, FM 9, shortwave 3 (2001)


Radios:

2.27 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (2001)


Televisions:

450,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.cm


Internet hosts:

69 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2002)


Internet users:

370,000 (2006)


Transportation
Cameroon



Airports:

45 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 11
over 3,047 m: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 4
1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 34
1,524 to 2,437 m: 6
914 to 1,523 m: 20
under 914 m: 8 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 27 km; liquid petroleum gas 5 km; oil 1,110 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 987 km
narrow gauge: 987 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 50,000 km
paved: 5,000 km
unpaved: 45,000 km (2004)


Waterways:

navigation mainly on Benue River; limited during rainy season (2005)


Ports and terminals:

Douala, Limboh Terminal


Military
Cameroon



Military branches:

Cameroon Armed Forces: Army, Navy (includes naval infantry), Air
Force (Armee de l'Air du Cameroun, AAC) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service; no conscription; the
government makes periodic calls for volunteers (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 4,321,175
females age 16-49: 4,228,625 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,567,428
females age 16-49: 2,498,990 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 212,205
female: 207,545 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.3% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Cameroon



Disputes - international:

Joint Border Commission with Nigeria reviewed 2002 ICJ ruling on the
entire boundary and bilaterally resolved differences, including June
2006 Greentree Agreement that immediately ceded sovereignty of the
Bakassi Peninsula to Cameroon with a full phase-out of Nigerian
control and patriation of residents in 2008; Cameroon and Nigeria
agree on maritime delimitation in March 2008; sovereignty dispute
between Equatorial Guinea and Cameroon over an island at the mouth
of the Ntem River; only Nigeria and Cameroon have heeded the Lake
Chad Commission's admonition to ratify the delimitation treaty,
which also includes the Chad-Niger and Niger-Nigeria boundaries


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 20,000-30,000 (Chad); 3,000 (Nigeria);
24,000 (Central African Republic) (2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Cameroon is a source, transit, and destination
country for women and children trafficked for the purposes of forced
labor and commercial sexual exploitation; most victims are children
trafficked within country, with girls primarily trafficked for
domestic servitude and sexual exploitation; both boys and girls are
also trafficked within Cameroon for forced labor in sweatshops,
bars, restaurants, and on tea and cocoa plantations; children are
trafficked into Cameroon from neighboring states for forced labor in
agriculture, fishing, street vending, and spare-parts shops;
Cameroon is a transit country for children trafficked between Gabon
and Nigeria, and from Nigeria to Saudi Arabia; it is a source
country for women transported by sex-trafficking rings to Europe
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Cameroon is on the Tier 2 Watch
List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to
combat human trafficking in 2007, particularly in terms of efforts
to prosecute and convict trafficking offenders; while Cameroon
reported some arrests of traffickers, none of them were prosecuted
or punished; the government does not identify trafficking victims
among vulnerable populations nor does it monitor the number of
victims it intercepts (2008)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Canada

Introduction
Canada



Background:

A land of vast distances and rich natural resources, Canada became a
self-governing dominion in 1867 while retaining ties to the British
crown. Economically and technologically the nation has developed in
parallel with the US, its neighbor to the south across an
unfortified border. Canada faces the political challenges of meeting
public demands for quality improvements in health care and education
services, as well as responding to separatist concerns in
predominantly francophone Quebec. Canada also aims to develop its
diverse energy resources while maintaining its commitment to the
environment.


Geography
Canada



Location:

Northern North America, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean on the
east, North Pacific Ocean on the west, and the Arctic Ocean on the
north, north of the conterminous US


Geographic coordinates:

60 00 N, 95 00 W


Map references:

North America


Area:

total: 9,984,670 sq km
land: 9,093,507 sq km
water: 891,163 sq km


Area - comparative:

somewhat larger than the US


Land boundaries:

total: 8,893 km
border countries: US 8,893 km (includes 2,477 km with Alaska)


Coastline:

202,080 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin


Climate:

varies from temperate in south to subarctic and arctic in north


Terrain:

mostly plains with mountains in west and lowlands in southeast


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Mount Logan 5,959 m


Natural resources:

iron ore, nickel, zinc, copper, gold, lead, molybdenum, potash,
diamonds, silver, fish, timber, wildlife, coal, petroleum, natural
gas, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 4.57%
permanent crops: 0.65%
other: 94.78% (2005)


Irrigated land:

7,850 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

3,300 cu km (1985)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 44.72 cu km/yr (20%/69%/12%)
per capita: 1,386 cu m/yr (1996)


Natural hazards:

continuous permafrost in north is a serious obstacle to development;
cyclonic storms form east of the Rocky Mountains, a result of the
mixing of air masses from the Arctic, Pacific, and North American
interior, and produce most of the country's rain and snow east of
the mountains


Environment - current issues:

air pollution and resulting acid rain severely affecting lakes and
damaging forests; metal smelting, coal-burning utilities, and
vehicle emissions impacting on agricultural and forest productivity;
ocean waters becoming contaminated due to agricultural, industrial,
mining, and forestry activities


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol,
Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic
Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Marine Life Conservation


Geography - note:

second-largest country in world (after Russia); strategic location
between Russia and US via north polar route; approximately 90% of
the population is concentrated within 160 km of the US border


People
Canada



Population:

33,212,696 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 16.3% (male 2,780,491/female 2,644,276)
15-64 years: 68.8% (male 11,547,354/female 11,300,639)
65 years and over: 14.9% (male 2,150,991/female 2,788,945) (2008
est.)


Median age:

total: 40.1 years
male: 39 years
female: 41.2 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.83% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

10.29 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

7.61 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

5.62 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.77 male(s)/female
total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 5.08 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 5.4 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 4.75 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 81.16 years
male: 78.65 years
female: 83.81 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.57 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.3% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

56,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

1,500 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Canadian(s)
adjective: Canadian


Ethnic groups:

British Isles origin 28%, French origin 23%, other European 15%,
Amerindian 2%, other, mostly Asian, African, Arab 6%, mixed
background 26%


Religions:

Roman Catholic 42.6%, Protestant 23.3% (including United Church
9.5%, Anglican 6.8%, Baptist 2.4%, Lutheran 2%), other Christian
4.4%, Muslim 1.9%, other and unspecified 11.8%, none 16% (2001
census)


Languages:

English (official) 59.3%, French (official) 23.2%, other 17.5%


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99%
male: 99%
female: 99% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 17 years
male: 17 years
female: 17 years (2004)


Education expenditures:

5.2% of GDP (2002)


Government
Canada



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Canada


Government type:

constitutional monarchy that is also a parliamentary democracy and a
federation


Capital:

name: Ottawa
geographic coordinates: 45 25 N, 75 42 W
time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard
Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins second Sunday in March; ends
first Sunday in November
note: Canada is divided into six time zones


Administrative divisions:

10 provinces and 3 territories*; Alberta, British Columbia,
Manitoba, New Brunswick, Newfoundland and Labrador, Northwest
Territories*, Nova Scotia, Nunavut*, Ontario, Prince Edward Island,
Quebec, Saskatchewan, Yukon Territory*


Independence:

1 July 1867 (union of British North American colonies); 11 December
1931 (recognized by UK)


National holiday:

Canada Day, 1 July (1867)


Constitution:

made up of unwritten and written acts, customs, judicial decisions,
and traditions; the written part of the constitution consists of the
Constitution Act of 29 March 1867, which created a federation of
four provinces, and the Constitution Act of 17 April 1982, which
transferred formal control over the constitution from Britain to
Canada, and added a Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms as well
as procedures for constitutional amendments


Legal system:

based on English common law, except in Quebec, where civil law
system based on French law prevails; accepts compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction, with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by Governor General Michaelle JEAN (since 27 September
2005)
head of government: Prime Minister Stephen HARPER (since 6 February
2006)
cabinet: Federal Ministry chosen by the prime minister usually from
among the members of his own party sitting in Parliament
elections: the monarchy is hereditary; governor general appointed by
the monarch on the advice of the prime minister for a five-year
term; following legislative elections, the leader of the majority
party or the leader of the majority coalition in the House of
Commons is automatically designated prime minister by the governor
general


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament or Parlement consists of the Senate or Senat
(105 seats; members appointed by the governor general with the
advice of the prime minister and serve until reaching 75 years of
age) and the House of Commons or Chambre des Communes (308 seats;
members elected by direct, popular vote to serve a maximum of
five-year terms starting in 2009 elections)
elections: House of Commons - last held 14 October 2008 (next to be
held 19 October 2009)
election results: House of Commons - percent of vote by party -
Conservative Party 37.6%, Liberal Party 26.2%, New Democratic Party
18.2%, Bloc Quebecois 10%, Greens 6.8%, other 1%; seats by party -
Conservative Party 143, Liberal Party 76, New Democratic Party 37,
Bloc Quebecois 50, other 1


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court of Canada (judges are appointed by the prime minister
through the governor general); Federal Court of Canada; Federal
Court of Appeal; Provincial Courts (these are named variously Court
of Appeal, Court of Queens Bench, Superior Court, Supreme Court, and
Court of Justice)


Political parties and leaders:

Bloc Quebecois [Gilles DUCEPPE]; Conservative Party of Canada
[Stephen HARPER] (a merger of the Canadian Alliance and the
Progressive Conservative Party); Green Party [Elizabeth MAY];
Liberal Party [Stephane DION]; New Democratic Party [Jack LAYTON]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

other: agricultural sector; automobile industry; business groups;
chemical industry; commercial banks; communications sector; energy
industry; environmentalists; public administration groups; steel
industry; trade unions


International organization participation:

ACCT, ADB (nonregional members), AfDB (nonregional members), APEC,
Arctic Council, ARF, ASEAN (dialogue partner), Australia Group, BIS,
C, CDB, CE (observer), EAPC, EBRD, ESA (cooperating state), FAO,
G-7, G-8, G-10, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IEA,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU,
ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINUSTAH, MONUC, NAFTA, NAM (guest),
NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS, OECD, OIF, OPCW, OSCE, Paris Club, PCA, PIF
(partner), SECI (observer), UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNDOF, UNESCO,
UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNMIS, UNRWA, UNTSO, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU,
WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Michael WILSON
chancery: 501 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20001
telephone: [1] (202) 682-1740
FAX: [1] (202) 682-7701
consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Boston, Buffalo, Chicago, Dallas,
Denver, Detroit, Los Angeles, Miami, Minneapolis, New York, Phoenix,
San Diego, San Francisco, Seattle, Tucson
consulate(s): Anchorage, Houston, Philadelphia, Princeton (New
Jersey), Raleigh, San Jose (California)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador David H. WILKINS
embassy: 490 Sussex Drive, Ottawa, Ontario K1N 1G8
mailing address: P. O. Box 5000, Ogdensburgh, NY 13669-0430; P.O.
Box 866, Station B, Ottawa, Ontario K1P 5T1
telephone: [1] (613) 688-5335
FAX: [1] (613) 688-3082
consulate(s) general: Calgary, Halifax, Montreal, Quebec, Toronto,
Vancouver, Winnipeg


Flag description:

two vertical bands of red (hoist and fly side, half width), with
white square between them; an 11-pointed red maple leaf is centered
in the white square; the official colors of Canada are red and white


Economy
Canada



Economy - overview:

As an affluent, high-tech industrial society in the trillion-dollar
class, Canada resembles the US in its market-oriented economic
system, pattern of production, and affluent living standards. Since
World War II, the impressive growth of the manufacturing, mining,
and service sectors has transformed the nation from a largely rural
economy into one primarily industrial and urban. The 1989 US-Canada
Free Trade Agreement (FTA) and the 1994 North American Free Trade
Agreement (NAFTA) (which includes Mexico) touched off a dramatic
increase in trade and economic integration with the US. Given its
great natural resources, skilled labor force, and modern capital
plant, Canada enjoys solid economic prospects. Top-notch fiscal
management has produced consecutive balanced budgets since 1997,
although public debate continues over the equitable distribution of
federal funds to the Canadian provinces. Exports account for roughly
a third of GDP. Canada enjoys a substantial trade surplus with its
principal trading partner, the US, which absorbs 80% of Canadian
exports each year. Canada is the US's largest foreign supplier of
energy, including oil, gas, uranium, and electric power. During
2007, Canada enjoyed good economic growth, moderate inflation, and
the lowest unemployment rate in more than three decades.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$1.271 trillion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$1.432 trillion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

2.7% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$38,600 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 2.1%
industry: 28.8%
services: 69.1% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

17.95 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture 2%, manufacturing 13%, construction 6%, services 76%,
other 3% (2006)


Unemployment rate:

6% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

10.8%; note - this figure is the Low Income Cut-Off (LICO), a
calculation that results in higher figures than found in many
comparable economies; Canada does not have an official poverty line
(2005)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.6%
highest 10%: 24.8% (2000)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

32.1 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

22.6% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $569.3 billion
expenditures: $556.2 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 April - 31 March


Public debt:

64.2% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.1% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

4.5% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

6.1% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$391.6 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$1.381 trillion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$2.382 trillion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

wheat, barley, oilseed, tobacco, fruits, vegetables; dairy products;
forest products; fish


Industries:

transportation equipment, chemicals, processed and unprocessed
minerals, food products, wood and paper products, fish products,
petroleum and natural gas


Industrial production growth rate:

0.3% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

612.6 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

530 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

50.12 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

19.66 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 28%
hydro: 57.9%
nuclear: 12.9%
other: 1.3% (2001)


Oil - production:

3.425 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

2.371 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

2.225 million bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

1.229 million bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

178.6 billion bbl
note: includes oil sands (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

187 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

92.9 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

107.3 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

13.2 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

1.648 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$12.67 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$431.1 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

motor vehicles and parts, industrial machinery, aircraft,
telecommunications equipment; chemicals, plastics, fertilizers; wood
pulp, timber, crude petroleum, natural gas, electricity, aluminum


Exports - partners:

US 78.9%, UK 2.8%, China 2.1% (2007)


Imports:

$386.4 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, motor vehicles and parts, crude oil,
chemicals, electricity, durable consumer goods


Imports - partners:

US 54.1%, China 9.4%, Mexico 4.2% (2007)


Economic aid - donor:

ODA, $3.9 billion (2007)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$41.08 billion (2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$758.6 billion (30 June 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$527.4 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$514.7 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$1.481 trillion (2005)


Currency (code):

Canadian dollar (CAD)


Currency code:

CAD


Exchange rates:

Canadian dollars (CAD) per US dollar - 1.0724 (2007), 1.1334 (2006),
1.2118 (2005), 1.301 (2004), 1.4011 (2003)


Communications
Canada



Telephones - main lines in use:

21 million (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

18.749 million (2006)


Telephone system:

general assessment: excellent service provided by modern technology
domestic: domestic satellite system with about 300 earth stations
international: country code - 1; submarine cables provide links to
the US and Europe; satellite earth stations - 7 (5 Intelsat - 4
Atlantic Ocean and 1 Pacific Ocean, and 2 Intersputnik - Atlantic
Ocean region) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 245, FM 582, shortwave 6 (2004)


Radios:

32.3 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

80 (plus many repeaters) (1997)


Televisions:

21.5 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.ca


Internet hosts:

5.119 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

760 (2000 est.)


Internet users:

28 million (2007)


Transportation
Canada



Airports:

1,343 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 509
over 3,047 m: 18
2,438 to 3,047 m: 16
1,524 to 2,437 m: 149
914 to 1,523 m: 248
under 914 m: 78 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 834
1,524 to 2,437 m: 68
914 to 1,523 m: 356
under 914 m: 410 (2007)


Heliports:

11 (2007)


Pipelines:

crude and refined oil 23,564 km; liquid petroleum gas 74,980 km
(2006)


Railways:

total: 48,068 km
standard gauge: 48,068 km 1.435-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 1,042,300 km
paved: 415,600 km (includes 17,000 km of expressways)
unpaved: 626,700 km (2006)


Waterways:

636 km
note: Saint Lawrence Seaway of 3,769 km, including the Saint
Lawrence River of 3,058 km, shared with United States (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 175
by type: bulk carrier 60, cargo 13, carrier 1, chemical tanker 10,
combination ore/oil 1, container 2, passenger 6, passenger/cargo 64,
petroleum tanker 12, roll on/roll off 6
foreign-owned: 17 (Germany 3, Netherlands 1, Norway 3, US 10)
registered in other countries: 206 (Australia 9, Bahamas 84,
Barbados 9, Cambodia 2, Cyprus 2, Denmark 1, Honduras 1, Hong Kong
44, Liberia 7, Malta 1, Marshall Islands 6, Norway 7, Norway 3,
Panama 18, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 1, Spain 1, Spain 3,
Taiwan 2, Vanuatu 5) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Fraser River Port, Halifax, Hamilton, Montreal, Port-Cartier, Quebec
City, Saint John (New Brunswick), Sept-Isles, Vancouver


Military
Canada



Military branches:

Canadian Forces: Land Forces Command (LFC), Maritime Command
(MARCOM), Air Command (AIRCOM), Canada Command (homeland security)
(2008)


Military service age and obligation:

17 years of age for male and female voluntary military service (with
parental consent); 16 years of age for reserve and military college
applicants; Canadian citizenship or permanent residence status
required; maximum 34 years of age; service obligation 3-9 years
(2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 8,072,010
females age 16-49: 7,813,462 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 6,646,281
females age 16-49: 6,417,924 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 227,435
female: 215,556 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.1% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Canada



Disputes - international:

managed maritime boundary disputes with the US at Dixon Entrance,
Beaufort Sea, Strait of Juan de Fuca, and the Gulf of Maine
including the disputed Machias Seal Island and North Rock; Canada,
the US, and other countries dispute the status of the Northwest
Passage; US works closely with Canada to intensify security measures
for monitoring and controlling legal and illegal movement of people,
transport, and commodities across the international border;
sovereignty dispute with Denmark over Hans Island in the Kennedy
Channel between Ellesmere Island and Greenland; commencing the
collection of technical evidence for submission to the Commission on
the Limits of the Continental Shelf in support of claims for
continental shelf beyond 200 nautical miles from its declared
baselines in the Arctic, as stipulated in Article 76, paragraph 8,
of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea


Illicit drugs:

illicit producer of cannabis for the domestic drug market and export
to US; use of hydroponics technology permits growers to plant large
quantities of high-quality marijuana indoors; increasing ecstasy
production, some of which is destined for the US; vulnerable to
narcotics money laundering because of its mature financial services
sector



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Cape Verde

Introduction
Cape Verde



Background:

The uninhabited islands were discovered and colonized by the
Portuguese in the 15th century; Cape Verde subsequently became a
trading center for African slaves and later an important coaling and
resupply stop for whaling and transatlantic shipping. Following
independence in 1975, and a tentative interest in unification with
Guinea-Bissau, a one-party system was established and maintained
until multi-party elections were held in 1990. Cape Verde continues
to exhibit one of Africa's most stable democratic governments.
Repeated droughts during the second half of the 20th century caused
significant hardship and prompted heavy emigration. As a result,
Cape Verde's expatriate population is greater than its domestic one.
Most Cape Verdeans have both African and Portuguese antecedents.


Geography
Cape Verde



Location:

Western Africa, group of islands in the North Atlantic Ocean, west
of Senegal


Geographic coordinates:

16 00 N, 24 00 W


Map references:

Political Map of the World


Area:

total: 4,033 sq km
land: 4,033 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than Rhode Island


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

965 km


Maritime claims:

measured from claimed archipelagic baselines
territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

temperate; warm, dry summer; precipitation meager and very erratic


Terrain:

steep, rugged, rocky, volcanic


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Mt. Fogo 2,829 m (a volcano on Fogo Island)


Natural resources:

salt, basalt rock, limestone, kaolin, fish, clay, gypsum


Land use:

arable land: 11.41%
permanent crops: 0.74%
other: 87.85% (2005)


Irrigated land:

30 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

0.3 cu km (1990)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.02 cu km/yr (7%/2%/91%)
per capita: 39 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

prolonged droughts; seasonal harmattan wind produces obscuring dust;
volcanically and seismically active


Environment - current issues:

soil erosion; deforestation due to demand for wood used as fuel;
water shortages; desertification; environmental damage has
threatened several species of birds and reptiles; illegal beach sand
extraction; overfishing


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

strategic location 500 km from west coast of Africa near major
north-south sea routes; important communications station; important
sea and air refueling site


People
Cape Verde



Population:

426,998 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 36.1% (male 77,533/female 76,489)
15-64 years: 57.4% (male 120,208/female 125,009)
65 years and over: 6.5% (male 10,226/female 17,533) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 20.6 years
male: 19.9 years
female: 21.5 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.595% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

23.95 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

6.26 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-11.74 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.96 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.58 male(s)/female
total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 42.55 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 48.66 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 36.25 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 71.33 years
male: 67.99 years
female: 74.76 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

3.17 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.035% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

775 (2001)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

225 (as of 2001)


Nationality:

noun: Cape Verdean(s)
adjective: Cape Verdean


Ethnic groups:

Creole (mulatto) 71%, African 28%, European 1%


Religions:

Roman Catholic (infused with indigenous beliefs), Protestant (mostly
Church of the Nazarene)


Languages:

Portuguese, Crioulo (a blend of Portuguese and West African words)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 76.6%
male: 85.8%
female: 69.2% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 12 years
male: 11 years
female: 12 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

6.3% of GDP (2006)


Government
Cape Verde



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Cape Verde
conventional short form: Cape Verde
local long form: Republica de Cabo Verde
local short form: Cabo Verde


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Praia
geographic coordinates: 14 55 N, 23 31 W
time difference: UTC-1 (4 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

17 municipalities (concelhos, singular - concelho); Boa Vista,
Brava, Maio, Mosteiros, Paul, Praia, Porto Novo, Ribeira Grande,
Sal, Santa Catarina, Santa Cruz, Sao Domingos, Sao Filipe, Sao
Miguel, Sao Nicolau, Sao Vicente, Tarrafal


Independence:

5 July 1975 (from Portugal)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 5 July (1975)


Constitution:

25 September 1992; a major revision on 23 November 1995
substantially increased the powers of the president; a 1999 revision
created the position of national ombudsman (Provedor de Justica)


Legal system:

based on the legal system of Portugal; has not accepted compulsory
ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Pedro Verona PIRES (since 22 March 2001)
head of government: Prime Minister Jose Maria Pereira NEVES (since 1
February 2001)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
recommendation of the prime minister
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 12 February 2006
(next to be held in February 2011); prime minister nominated by the
National Assembly and appointed by the president
election results: Pedro PIRES reelected president; percent of vote -
Pedro PIRES (PAICV) 51.2%, Carlos VIEGA (MPD) 48.8%


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly or Assembleia Nacional (72 seats;
members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held 22 January 2006 (next to be held in January
2011)
election results: percent of vote by party - PAICV 52.3%, MPD 44%,
UCID 2.7%; seats by party - PAICV 41, MPD 29, UCID 2


Judicial branch:

Supreme Tribunal of Justice or Supremo Tribunal de Justia


Political parties and leaders:

African Party for Independence of Cape Verde or PAICV [Jose Maria
Pereira NEVES, chairman]; Democratic Alliance for Change or ADM [Dr.
Eurico MONTEIRO] (a coalition of PCD, PTS, and UCID); Democratic
Christian Party or PDC [Manuel RODRIGUES]; Democratic Renovation
Party or PRD [Victor FIDALGO]; Democratic and Independent Cape
Verdean Union or UCID [Antonio MONTEIRO]; Movement for Democracy or
MPD [Agostinho LOPES]; Party for Democratic Convergence or PCD [Dr.
Eurico MONTEIRO]; Party of Work and Solidarity or PTS [Isaias
RODRIGUES]; Social Democratic Party or PSD [Joao ALEM]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

other: environmentalists; political pressure groups


International organization participation:

ACCT, ACP, AfDB, AU, CPLP, ECOWAS, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt
(signatory), ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol,
IOC, IOM, IPU, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OIF, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Fatima Lima VEIGA
chancery: 3415 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20007
telephone: [1] (202) 965-6820
FAX: [1] (202) 965-1207
consulate(s) general: Boston


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Marianne M. MYLES
embassy: Rua Abilio Macedo n6, Praia
mailing address: C. P. 201, Praia
telephone: [238] 2-60-89-00
FAX: [238] 2-61-13-55


Flag description:

five unequal horizontal bands; the top-most band of blue - equal to
one half the width of the flag - is followed by three bands of
white, red, and white, each equal to 1/12 of the width, and a bottom
stripe of blue equal to one quarter of the flag width; a circle of
10, yellow, five-pointed stars, each representing one of the
islands, is centered on the red stripe and positioned 3/8 of the
length of the flag from the hoist side


Economy
Cape Verde



Economy - overview:

This island economy suffers from a poor natural resource base,
including serious water shortages exacerbated by cycles of long-term
drought. The economy is service-oriented, with commerce, transport,
tourism, and public services accounting for about three-fourths of
GDP. Although nearly 70% of the population lives in rural areas, the
share of food production in GDP is low. About 82% of food must be
imported. The fishing potential, mostly lobster and tuna, is not
fully exploited. Cape Verde annually runs a high trade deficit,
financed by foreign aid and remittances from emigrants; remittances
supplement GDP by more than 20%. Economic reforms are aimed at
developing the private sector and attracting foreign investment to
diversify the economy. Future prospects depend heavily on the
maintenance of aid flows, the encouragement of tourism, remittances,
and the momentum of the government's development program. Cape Verde
became a member of the WTO in July 2008.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$1.603 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$1.428 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6.9% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$3,200 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 9.3%
industry: 16.7%
services: 74% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

120,600 (1990)


Unemployment rate:

21% (2000 est.)


Population below poverty line:

30% (2000)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Investment (gross fixed):

37% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $436.1 million
expenditures: $449.7 million (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

4.4% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

8.5% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

10.55% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$574 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$689 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$1.049 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

bananas, corn, beans, sweet potatoes, sugarcane, coffee, peanuts;
fish


Industries:

food and beverages, fish processing, shoes and garments, salt
mining, ship repair


Industrial production growth rate:

7.5% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

47 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

43.71 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

2,117 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

1,785 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$132.6 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$76.5 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

fuel, shoes, garments, fish, hides


Exports - partners:

Spain 37.2%, Portugal 29.9%, Morocco 7%, US 6.6% (2007)


Imports:

$743.6 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

foodstuffs, industrial products, transport equipment, fuels


Imports - partners:

Portugal 40.7%, Netherlands 10.9%, France 6.5%, Spain 5.6%, Cote
d'Ivoire 4.9%, Brazil 4.7%, Italy 4.7% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$160.6 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$398 million (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$325 million (2002)


Currency (code):

Cape Verdean escudo (CVE)


Currency code:

CVE


Exchange rates:

Cape Verdean escudos (CVE) per US dollar - 81.235 (2007), 87.946
(2006), 88.67 (2005), 88.808 (2004), 97.703 (2003)


Communications
Cape Verde



Telephones - main lines in use:

71,600 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

148,000 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: effective system, extensive modernization from
1996-2000 following partial privatization in 1995
domestic: major service provider is Cabo Verde Telecom (CVT);
fiber-optic ring, completed in 2001, links all islands providing
Internet access and ISDN services; cellular service introduced in
1998; broadband services launched in 2004
international: country code - 238; landing point for the Atlantis-2
fiber-optic transatlantic telephone cable that provides links to
South America, Senegal, and Europe; HF radiotelephone to Senegal and
Guinea-Bissau; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)
(2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 0, FM 22 (plus 12 repeaters), shortwave 0 (2001)


Radios:

100,000 (2002 est.)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (plus 7 repeaters) (2001)


Televisions:

15,000 (2002 est.)


Internet country code:

.cv


Internet hosts:

20 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2002)


Internet users:

37,000 (2007)


Transportation
Cape Verde



Airports:

8 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 8
over 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 4
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 1,350 km
paved: 932 km
unpaved: 418 km (2000)


Merchant marine:

total: 8
by type: cargo 2, chemical tanker 1, passenger/cargo 5
foreign-owned: 2 (Spain 1, UK 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Porto Grande


Military
Cape Verde



Military branches:

People's Revolutionary Armed Forces (FARP): Army, Coast Guard
(includes maritime air wing) (2007)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age (est.) for selective compulsory military service;
14-month conscript service obligation (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 103,650
females age 16-49: 103,553 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 83,082
females age 16-49: 88,832 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 5,566
female: 5,441 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0.7% of GDP (2005)


Transnational Issues
Cape Verde



Disputes - international:

none


Illicit drugs:

used as a transshipment point for Latin American cocaine destined
for Western Europe; the lack of a well-developed financial system
limits the country's utility as a money-laundering center



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Cayman Islands

Introduction
Cayman Islands



Background:

The Cayman Islands were colonized from Jamaica by the British during
the 18th and 19th centuries, and were administered by Jamaica after
1863. In 1959, the islands became a territory within the Federation
of the West Indies, but when the Federation dissolved in 1962, the
Cayman Islands chose to remain a British dependency.


Geography
Cayman Islands



Location:

Caribbean, three-island group (Grand Cayman, Cayman Brac, Little
Cayman) in Caribbean Sea, 240 km south of Cuba and 268 km northwest
of Jamaica


Geographic coordinates:

19 30 N, 80 30 W


Map references:

Central America and the Caribbean


Area:

total: 262 sq km
land: 262 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

1.5 times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

160 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical marine; warm, rainy summers (May to October) and cool,
relatively dry winters (November to April)


Terrain:

low-lying limestone base surrounded by coral reefs


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
highest point: The Bluff (Cayman Brac) 43 m


Natural resources:

fish, climate and beaches that foster tourism


Land use:

arable land: 3.85%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 96.15% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

hurricanes (July to November)


Environment - current issues:

no natural fresh water resources; drinking water supplies must be
met by rainwater catchments


Geography - note:

important location between Cuba and Central America


People
Cayman Islands



Population:

47,862
note: most of the population lives on Grand Cayman (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 19.9% (male 4,774/female 4,759)
15-64 years: 71.1% (male 16,594/female 17,434)
65 years and over: 9% (male 2,022/female 2,279) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 37.8 years
male: 37.4 years
female: 38.2 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.449% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

12.43 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

4.83 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

16.88 migrant(s)/1,000 population
note: major destination for Cubans trying to migrate to the US (2008
est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.02 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.95 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.89 male(s)/female
total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 7.1 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 8.16 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 6.03 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 80.32 years
male: 77.68 years
female: 83 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.89 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Caymanian(s)
adjective: Caymanian


Ethnic groups:

mixed 40%, white 20%, black 20%, expatriates of various ethnic
groups 20%


Religions:

Church of God 26%, United Church 11.8% (Presbyterian and
Congregational), Roman Catholic 11%, Baptist 8.7%, Seventh Day
Adventist 8.2%, Anglican 5.7%, Pentacostal 5.3%, other Christian
2.7%, non-denominational 5.8%, other 3.8%, none 9.8%, unspecified
1.1% (1999 census)


Languages:

English 95%, Spanish 3.2%, other 1.8% (1999 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over has ever attended school
total population: 98%
male: 98%
female: 98% (1970 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 13 years
male: 12 years
female: 13 years (2001)


Education expenditures:

2.8% of GDP (2005)


Government
Cayman Islands



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Cayman Islands


Dependency status:

overseas territory of the UK


Government type:

British crown colony


Capital:

name: George Town (on Grand Cayman)
geographic coordinates: 19 18 N, 81 23 W
time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard
Time)


Administrative divisions:

8 districts; Creek, Eastern, Midland, South Town, Spot Bay, Stake
Bay, West End, Western


Independence:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


National holiday:

Constitution Day, first Monday in July


Constitution:

1959; revised 1962, 1972, and 1994


Legal system:

British common law and local statutes


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by Governor Stuart JACK (since 23 November 2005)
head of government: Leader of Government Business Kurt TIBBETTS
(since 18 May 2005)
cabinet: Executive Council (three members appointed by the governor,
four members elected by the Legislative Assembly)
elections: the monarch is hereditary; the governor is appointed by
the monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the
majority party or coalition is appointed by the governor Leader of
Government Business


Legislative branch:

unicameral Legislative Assembly (18 seats; 3 appointed members from
the Executive Council and 15 elected by popular vote; to serve
four-year terms)
elections: last held 11 May 2005 (next to be held in 2009)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
PPM 9, UDP 5, independent 1


Judicial branch:

Summary Court; Grand Court; Cayman Islands Court of Appeal


Political parties and leaders:

United Democratic Party or UDP [McKeeva BUSH]; People's Progressive
Movement or PPM [Kurt TIBBETTS]; note - no national teams (loose
groupings of political organizations) were formed for the 2000
elections


Political pressure groups and leaders:

National Trust
other: environmentalists


International organization participation:

Caricom (associate), CDB, Interpol (subbureau), IOC, UNESCO
(associate), UPU, WFTU


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


Flag description:

blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and
the Caymanian coat of arms centered on the outer half of the flag;
the coat of arms includes a pineapple and turtle above a shield with
three stars (representing the three islands) and a scroll at the
bottom bearing the motto HE HATH FOUNDED IT UPON THE SEAS


Economy
Cayman Islands



Economy - overview:

With no direct taxation, the islands are a thriving offshore
financial center. More than 68,000 companies were registered in the
Cayman Islands as of 2003, including almost 500 banks, 800 insurers,
and 5,000 mutual funds. A stock exchange was opened in 1997. Tourism
is also a mainstay, accounting for about 70% of GDP and 75% of
foreign currency earnings. The tourist industry is aimed at the
luxury market and caters mainly to visitors from North America.
Total tourist arrivals exceeded 2.1 million in 2003, with about half
from the US. About 90% of the islands' food and consumer goods must
be imported. The Caymanians enjoy one of the highest outputs per
capita and one of the highest standards of living in the world.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$1.939 billion (2004 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$NA


GDP - real growth rate:

0.9% (2004 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$43,800 (2004 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 1.4%
industry: 3.2%
services: 95.4% (1994 est.)


Labor force:

23,450 (2004)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 1.4%
industry: 12.6%
services: 86% (1995)


Unemployment rate:

4.4% (2004)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $423.8 million
expenditures: $392.6 million (2004)


Fiscal year:

1 April - 31 March


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

4.4% (2004)


Agriculture - products:

vegetables, fruit; livestock; turtle farming


Industries:

tourism, banking, insurance and finance, construction, construction
materials, furniture


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

546.1 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

546.1 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

2,767 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

2,818 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Exports:

$2.52 million (2004)


Exports - commodities:

turtle products, manufactured consumer goods


Exports - partners:

mostly US (2006)


Imports:

$866.9 million (2004)


Imports - commodities:

foodstuffs, manufactured goods


Imports - partners:

US, Netherlands Antilles, Japan (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$390,000 (2004)


Debt - external:

$70 million (1996)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$NA


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$130 million (2005)


Currency (code):

Caymanian dollar (KYD)


Currency code:

KYD


Exchange rates:

Caymanian dollars (KYD) per US dollar - NA (2007), 0.8496 (2006)


Communications
Cayman Islands



Telephones - main lines in use:

38,000 (2002)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

33,800 (2004)


Telephone system:

general assessment: reasonably good system
domestic: liberalization of telecom market in 2003; introduction of
competition in the mobile-cellular market in 2004
international: country code - 1-345; landing point for the MAYA-1
submarine telephone cable network that provides links to the US and
parts of Central and South America; submarine cable provides
connectivity to Jamaica; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat
(Atlantic Ocean) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 4, shortwave 0 (2004)


Radios:

36,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

4 with cable system (2004)


Televisions:

7,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.ky


Internet hosts:

4,648 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

16 (2000)


Internet users:

22,000 (2007)


Transportation
Cayman Islands



Airports:

3 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 785 km
paved: 785 km (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 109
by type: bulk carrier 30, cargo 2, chemical tanker 42, petroleum
tanker 15, refrigerated cargo 10, roll on/roll off 3, vehicle
carrier 7
foreign-owned: 107 (Denmark 3, Germany 15, Greece 16, Italy 4, Japan
13, Norway 1, Singapore 10, UK 3, US 42) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Cayman Brac, George Town


Military
Cayman Islands



Military branches:

no regular military forces; Royal Cayman Islands Police Force (2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 11,790 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 9,577 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 336
female: 336 (2008 est.)


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of the UK


Transnational Issues
Cayman Islands



Disputes - international:

none


Illicit drugs:

offshore financial center; vulnerable to drug transshipment to the
US and Europe



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Central African Republic

Introduction
Central African Republic



Background:

The former French colony of Ubangi-Shari became the Central African
Republic upon independence in 1960. After three tumultuous decades
of misrule - mostly by military governments - civilian rule was
established in 1993 and lasted for one decade. President Ange-Felix
PATASSE's civilian government was plagued by unrest, and in March
2003 he was deposed in a military coup led by General Francois
BOZIZE, who established a transitional government. Though the
government has the tacit support of civil society groups and the
main parties, a wide field of candidates contested the municipal,
legislative, and presidential elections held in March and May of
2005 in which General BOZIZE was affirmed as president. The
government still does not fully control the countryside, where
pockets of lawlessness persist. Unrest in neighboring nations, Chad,
Sudan, and the DRC, continues to affect stability in the Central
African Republic as well.


Geography
Central African Republic



Location:

Central Africa, north of Democratic Republic of the Congo


Geographic coordinates:

7 00 N, 21 00 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 622,984 sq km
land: 622,984 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Texas


Land boundaries:

total: 5,203 km
border countries: Cameroon 797 km, Chad 1,197 km, Democratic
Republic of the Congo 1,577 km, Republic of the Congo 467 km, Sudan
1,165 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

tropical; hot, dry winters; mild to hot, wet summers


Terrain:

vast, flat to rolling, monotonous plateau; scattered hills in
northeast and southwest


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Oubangui River 335 m
highest point: Mont Ngaoui 1,420 m


Natural resources:

diamonds, uranium, timber, gold, oil, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 3.1%
permanent crops: 0.15%
other: 96.75% (2005)


Irrigated land:

20 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

144.4 cu km (2003)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.03 cu km/yr (80%/16%/4%)
per capita: 7 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

hot, dry, dusty harmattan winds affect northern areas; floods are
common


Environment - current issues:

tap water is not potable; poaching has diminished the country's
reputation as one of the last great wildlife refuges;
desertification; deforestation


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
Ozone Layer Protection, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea


Geography - note:

landlocked; almost the precise center of Africa


People
Central African Republic



Population:

4,444,330
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 41.3% (male 922,053/female 911,601)
15-64 years: 54.6% (male 1,206,121/female 1,221,158)
65 years and over: 4.1% (male 71,597/female 111,800) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 18.7 years
male: 18.4 years
female: 19 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.509% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

33.13 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

18.04 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.64 male(s)/female
total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 82.13 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 88.84 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 75.23 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 44.22 years
male: 44.14 years
female: 44.29 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

4.23 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

13.5% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

260,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

23,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne disease: malaria
respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Central African(s)
adjective: Central African


Ethnic groups:

Baya 33%, Banda 27%, Mandjia 13%, Sara 10%, Mboum 7%, M'Baka 4%,
Yakoma 4%, other 2%


Religions:

indigenous beliefs 35%, Protestant 25%, Roman Catholic 25%, Muslim
15%
note: animistic beliefs and practices strongly influence the
Christian majority


Languages:

French (official), Sangho (lingua franca and national language),
tribal languages


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 48.6%
male: 64.8%
female: 33.5% (2000 est.)


Education expenditures:

1.4% of GDP (2006)


Government
Central African Republic



Country name:

conventional long form: Central African Republic
conventional short form: none
local long form: Republique Centrafricaine
local short form: none
former: Ubangi-Shari, Central African Empire
abbreviation: CAR


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Bangui
geographic coordinates: 4 22 N, 18 35 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

14 prefectures (prefectures, singular - prefecture), 2 economic
prefectures* (prefectures economiques, singular - prefecture
economique), and 1 commune**; Bamingui-Bangoran, Bangui**,
Basse-Kotto, Haute-Kotto, Haut-Mbomou, Kemo, Lobaye, Mambere-Kadei,
Mbomou, Nana-Grebizi*, Nana-Mambere, Ombella-Mpoko, Ouaka, Ouham,
Ouham-Pende, Sangha-Mbaere*, Vakaga


Independence:

13 August 1960 (from France)


National holiday:

Republic Day, 1 December (1958)


Constitution:

ratified by popular referendum 5 December 2004; effective 27
December 2004


Legal system:

based on French law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

21 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Francois BOZIZE (since 15 March 2003 coup)
head of government: Prime Minister Faustin-Archange TOUADERA (since
22 January 2008)
cabinet: Council of Ministers
elections: under the new constitution, the president elected to a
five-year term (eligible for a second term); elections last held 13
March and 8 May 2005 (next to be held in 2010); prime minister
appointed by the political party with a parliamentary majority
election results: Francois BOZIZE elected president; percent of
second round balloting - Francois BOZIZE (KNK) 64.6%, Martin ZIGUELE
(MLPC) 35.4%


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale (105 seats;
members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held 13 March 2005 and 8 May 2005 (next to be held
in 2010)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
KNK 42, MLPC 11, RDC 8, PSD 4, FPP 2, ADP 2, LONDO 1, independents
34, other 1


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court or Cour Supreme; Constitutional Court (3 judges
appointed by the president, 3 by the president of the National
Assembly, and 3 by fellow judges); Court of Appeal; Criminal Courts;
Inferior Courts


Political parties and leaders:

Alliance for Democracy and Progress or ADP [Jacques MBOLIEDAS];
Central African Democratic Rally or RDC [Andre KOLINGBA]; Civic
Forum or FC [Gen. Timothee MALENDOMA]; Democratic Forum for
Modernity or FODEM [Charles MASSI]; Liberal Democratic Party or PLD
[Nestor KOMBO-NAGUEMON]; Londo Association or LONDO; Movement for
Democracy and Development or MDD [David DACKO]; Movement for the
Liberation of the Central African People or MLPC [Ange-Felix
PATASSE] (the party of deposed president); National Convergence or
KNK; Patriotic Front for Progress or FPP [Abel GOUMBA]; People's
Union for the Republic or UPR [Pierre Sammy MAKFOY]; National Unity
Party or PUN [Jean-Paul NGOUPANDE]; Social Democratic Party or PSD
[Enoch LAKOUE]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Monam (combating gender-base violence)


International organization participation:

ACCT, ACP, AfDB, AU, BDEAC, CEMAC, FAO, FZ, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC, ITSO,
ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OIC (observer), OIF, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Emmanuel TOUABOY
chancery: 1618 22nd Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 483-7800
FAX: [1] (202) 332-9893


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Frederick B. COOK
embassy: Avenue David Dacko, Bangui
mailing address: B. P. 924, Bangui
telephone: [236] 61 02 00
FAX: [236] 61 44 94
note: the embassy is currently operating with a minimal staff


Flag description:

four equal horizontal bands of blue (top), white, green, and yellow
with a vertical red band in center; a yellow five-pointed star to
the hoist side of the blue band


Economy
Central African Republic



Economy - overview:

Subsistence agriculture, together with forestry, remains the
backbone of the economy of the Central African Republic (CAR), with
more than 70% of the population living in outlying areas. The
agricultural sector generates more than half of GDP. Timber has
accounted for about 16% of export earnings and the diamond industry,
for 40%. Important constraints to economic development include the
CAR's landlocked position, a poor transportation system, a largely
unskilled work force, and a legacy of misdirected macroeconomic
policies. Factional fighting between the government and its
opponents remains a drag on economic revitalization. Distribution of
income is extraordinarily unequal. Grants from France and the
international community can only partially meet humanitarian needs.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$3.007 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$1.714 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

4% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$700 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 55%
industry: 20%
services: 25% (2001 est.)


Labor force:

1.857 million (2006)


Unemployment rate:

8% (23% for Bangui) (2001 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 0.7%
highest 10%: 47.7% (1993)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

61.3 (1993)


Budget:

revenues: $250 million
expenditures: $273 million (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

0.9% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

5.25% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

15% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$218.3 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$47.58 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$320.2 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

timber, cotton, coffee, tobacco, manioc (tapioca), yams, millet,
corn, bananas; timber


Industries:

gold and diamond mining, logging, brewing, textiles, footwear,
assembly of bicycles and motorcycles


Industrial production growth rate:

3% (2002)


Electricity - production:

110 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

102.3 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 19.8%
hydro: 80.2%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

2,322 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

2,057 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006)


Current account balance:

-$77 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$146.7 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

diamonds, timber, cotton, coffee, tobacco


Exports - partners:

Belgium 22.7%, Indonesia 19.3%, Italy 7.7%, France 7.1%, Spain 6.9%,
Democratic Republic of the Congo 6.8%, China 4.9%, Turkey 4.7% (2007)


Imports:

$237.3 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

food, textiles, petroleum products, machinery, electrical equipment,
motor vehicles, chemicals, pharmaceuticals


Imports - partners:

France 16.6%, Netherlands 13%, Cameroon 9.7%, US 6.3% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

ODA, $95.29 million; note - traditional budget subsidies from France
(2005 est.)


Debt - external:

$1.153 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XAF); note - responsible
authority is the Bank of the Central African States


Currency code:

XAF


Exchange rates:

Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XAF) per US dollar - 481.8
(2007), 522.59 (2006), 527.47 (2005), 528.29 (2004), 581.2 (2003)


Communications
Central African Republic



Telephones - main lines in use:

12,000 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

130,000 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: limited telephone service; fixed-line
connections for well less than 1 per 100 persons coupled with
mobile-cellular usage of only about 3 per 100 persons; most
fixed-line and cellular telephone services are concentrated in Bangui
domestic: network consists principally of microwave radio relay and
low-capacity, low-powered radiotelephone communication
international: country code - 236; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 5, shortwave 1 (2001)


Radios:

283,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (2001)


Televisions:

18,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.cf


Internet hosts:

21 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2002)


Internet users:

13,000 (2006)


Transportation
Central African Republic



Airports:

51 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 3
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 48
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 10
914 to 1,523 m: 24
under 914 m: 13 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 24,307 km (2000)


Waterways:

2,800 km (primarily on the Oubangui and Sangha rivers) (2006)


Ports and terminals:

Bangui, Nola, Salo, Nzinga


Military
Central African Republic



Military branches:

Central African Armed Forces (Forces Armees Centrafricaines, FACA):
Ground Forces, General Directorate of Gendarmerie Inspection (DGIG),
Military Air Service, National Police (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military service;
2-year conscript service obligation (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,032,828
females age 16-49: 999,330 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 534,141
females age 16-49: 495,303 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 54,655
female: 54,420 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.1% of GDP (2006 est.)


Transnational Issues
Central African Republic



Disputes - international:

periodic skirmishes over water and grazing rights among related
pastoral populations along the border with southern Sudan persist


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 7,900 (Sudan); 3,700 (Democratic
Republic of the Congo); note - UNHCR resumed repatriation of
Southern Sudanese refugees in 2006
IDPs: 197,000 (ongoing unrest following coup in 2003) (2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Central African Republic is a source, transit,
and destination country for men, women, and children trafficked for
the purposes of forced labor and sexual exploitation; the majority
of victims are children trafficked within the country for sexual
exploitation, domestic servitude, street vending, and forced
agricultural, mine, market and restaurant labor; to a lesser extent,
children are trafficked from the Central African Republic to
Cameroon, Nigeria, and the Democratic Republic of Congo; rebels
conscript children into armed forces within the country
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Central African Republic is on the
Tier 2 Watch List for the third consecutive year for its failure to
show evidence of increasing efforts to combat trafficking in 2007;
efforts to address trafficking through vigorous law enforcement
measures and victim protection efforts were minimal, though
awareness about trafficking appeared to be increasing in the
country; the government does not actively investigate cases, work to
identify trafficking victims among vulnerable populations, or rescue
and provide care to victims; the government has not taken measures
to reduce demand for commercial sex acts (2008)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Chad

Introduction
Chad



Background:

Chad, part of France's African holdings until 1960, endured three
decades of civil warfare as well as invasions by Libya before a
semblance of peace was finally restored in 1990. The government
eventually drafted a democratic constitution, and held flawed
presidential elections in 1996 and 2001. In 1998, a rebellion broke
out in northern Chad, which has sporadically flared up despite
several peace agreements between the government and the rebels. In
2005, new rebel groups emerged in western Sudan and made probing
attacks into eastern Chad, despite signing peace agreements in
December 2006 and October 2007. Power remains in the hands of an
ethnic minority. In June 2005, President Idriss DEBY held a
referendum successfully removing constitutional term limits and won
another controversial election in 2006. Sporadic rebel campaigns
continued throughout 2006 and 2007, and the capital experienced a
significant rebel threat in early 2008.


Geography
Chad



Location:

Central Africa, south of Libya


Geographic coordinates:

15 00 N, 19 00 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 1.284 million sq km
land: 1,259,200 sq km
water: 24,800 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly more than three times the size of California


Land boundaries:

total: 5,968 km
border countries: Cameroon 1,094 km, Central African Republic 1,197
km, Libya 1,055 km, Niger 1,175 km, Nigeria 87 km, Sudan 1,360 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

tropical in south, desert in north


Terrain:

broad, arid plains in center, desert in north, mountains in
northwest, lowlands in south


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Djourab Depression 160 m
highest point: Emi Koussi 3,415 m


Natural resources:

petroleum, uranium, natron, kaolin, fish (Lake Chad), gold,
limestone, sand and gravel, salt


Land use:

arable land: 2.8%
permanent crops: 0.02%
other: 97.18% (2005)


Irrigated land:

300 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

43 cu km (1987)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.23 cu km/yr (17%/0%/83%)
per capita: 24 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

hot, dry, dusty harmattan winds occur in north; periodic droughts;
locust plagues


Environment - current issues:

inadequate supplies of potable water; improper waste disposal in
rural areas contributes to soil and water pollution; desertification


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered
Species, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping


Geography - note:

landlocked; Lake Chad is the most significant water body in the Sahel


People
Chad



Population:

10,111,337 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 47% (male 2,408,638/female 2,346,984)
15-64 years: 50.1% (male 2,317,406/female 2,746,104)
65 years and over: 2.9% (male 123,561/female 168,644) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 16.4 years
male: 15.2 years
female: 17.5 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.195% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

41.61 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

16.39 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-3.27 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.04 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.84 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.73 male(s)/female
total population: 0.92 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 100.36 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 106.48 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 94 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 47.43 years
male: 46.4 years
female: 48.5 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

5.43 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

4.8% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

200,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

18,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne disease: malaria
water contact disease: schistosomiasis
respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Chadian(s)
adjective: Chadian


Ethnic groups:

Sara 27.7%, Arab 12.3%, Mayo-Kebbi 11.5%, Kanem-Bornou 9%, Ouaddai
8.7%, Hadjarai 6.7%, Tandjile 6.5%, Gorane 6.3%, Fitri-Batha 4.7%,
other 6.4%, unknown 0.3% (1993 census)


Religions:

Muslim 53.1%, Catholic 20.1%, Protestant 14.2%, animist 7.3%, other
0.5%, unknown 1.7%, atheist 3.1% (1993 census)


Languages:

French (official), Arabic (official), Sara (in south), more than 120
different languages and dialects


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write French or Arabic
total population: 25.7%
male: 40.8%
female: 12.8% (2000 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 6 years
male: 7 years
female: 4 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

1.9% of GDP (2005)


Government
Chad



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Chad
conventional short form: Chad
local long form: Republique du Tchad/Jumhuriyat Tshad
local short form: Tchad/Tshad


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: N'Djamena
geographic coordinates: 12 06 N, 15 02 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

18 regions (regions, singular - region); Batha,
Borkou-Ennedi-Tibesti, Chari-Baguirmi, Guera, Hadjer-Lamis, Kanem,
Lac, Logone Occidental, Logone Oriental, Mandoul, Mayo-Kebbi Est,
Mayo-Kebbi Ouest, Moyen-Chari, Ouaddai, Salamat, Tandjile, Ville de
N'Djamena, Wadi Fira


Independence:

11 August 1960 (from France)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 11 August (1960)


Constitution:

passed by referendum 31 March 1996; a June 2005 referendum removed
constitutional term limits


Legal system:

based on French civil law system and Chadian customary law; has not
accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Lt. Gen. Idriss DEBY Itno (since 4
December 1990)
head of government: Prime Minister Youssof Saleh ABBAS (since 16
April 2008)
cabinet: Council of State, members appointed by the president on the
recommendation of the prime minister
elections: president elected by popular vote to serve five-year
term; if no candidate receives at least 50% of the total vote, the
two candidates receiving the most votes must stand for a second
round of voting; last held 3 May 2006 (next to be held by May 2011);
prime minister appointed by the president
election results: Lt. Gen. Idriss DEBY Itno reelected president;
percent of vote - Lt. Gen. Idriss DEBY 64.7%, Delwa Kassire
KOUMAKOYE 15.1%, Albert Pahimi PADACKE 7.8%, Mahamat ABDOULAYE 7.1%,
Brahim KOULAMALLAH 5.3%; note - a June 2005 national referendum
altered the constitution removing presidential term limits and
permitting Lt. Gen. Idriss DEBY Itno to run for reelection


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly (155 seats; members elected by popular
vote to serve four-year terms); note - the 1996 constitution called
for a Senate that has never been formed
elections: National Assembly - last held 21 April 2002 (next to be
held by 2009); note - legislative elections, originally scheduled
for 2006, were first delayed by National Assembly action and
subsequently by an accord, signed in August 2007, between government
and opposition parties
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
MPS 110, RDP 12, FAR 9, RNDP 5, UNDR 5, URD 3, other 11


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court; Court of Appeal; Criminal Courts; Magistrate Courts


Political parties and leaders:

Federation Action for the Republic or FAR [Ngarledjy YORONGAR];
National Rally for Development and Progress or RNDP [Delwa Kassire
KOUMAKOYE]; National Union for Democracy and Renewal or UNDR [Saleh
KEBZABO]; Party for Liberty and Development or PLD [Ibni Oumar
Mahamat SALEH]; Patriotic Salvation Movement or MPS [Mahamat Saleh
AHMAT, chairman]; Rally for Democracy and Progress or RDP [Lol
Mahamat CHOUA]; Union for Renewal and Democracy or URD [Gen. Wadal
Abdelkader KAMOUGUE]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

rebel groups


International organization participation:

ACCT, ACP, AfDB, AU, BDEAC, CEMAC, FAO, FZ, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC,
ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OIC, OIF, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNIDO, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Mahamat Adam BECHIR
chancery: 2002 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20009
telephone: [1] (202) 462-4009
FAX: [1] (202) 265-1937


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Louis NIGRO
embassy: Avenue Felix Eboue, N'Djamena
mailing address: B. P. 413, N'Djamena
telephone: [235] 251-62-11, [235] 251-70-09, [235] 251-77-59
FAX: [235] 251-56-54


Flag description:

three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side), yellow, and red
note: similar to the flag of Romania; also similar to the flags of
Andorra and Moldova, both of which have a national coat of arms
centered in the yellow band; design was based on the flag of France


Economy
Chad



Economy - overview:

Chad's primarily agricultural economy will continue to be boosted by
major foreign direct investment projects in the oil sector that
began in 2000. At least 80% of Chad's population relies on
subsistence farming and livestock raising for its livelihood. Chad's
economy has long been handicapped by its landlocked position, high
energy costs, and a history of instability. Chad relies on foreign
assistance and foreign capital for most public and private sector
investment projects. A consortium led by two US companies has been
investing $3.7 billion to develop oil reserves - estimated at 1
billion barrels - in southern Chad. Chinese companies are also
expanding exploration efforts and plan to build a refinery. The
nation's total oil reserves have been estimated to be 1.5 billion
barrels. Oil production came on stream in late 2003. Chad began to
export oil in 2004. Cotton, cattle, and gum arabic provide the bulk
of Chad's non-oil export earnings.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$15.26 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$7.095 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

1.3% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$1,500 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 21.5%
industry: 47.8%
services: 30.6% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

3.747 million (2006)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 80% (subsistence farming, herding, and fishing)
industry and services: 20% (2006 est.)


Unemployment rate:

NA%


Population below poverty line:

80% (2001 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Investment (gross fixed):

11.4% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $1.864 billion
expenditures: $1.749 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

4% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

5.25% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

15% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$874.5 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$55.23 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$82.81 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

cotton, sorghum, millet, peanuts, rice, potatoes, manioc (tapioca);
cattle, sheep, goats, camels


Industries:

oil, cotton textiles, meatpacking, brewing, natron (sodium
carbonate), soap, cigarettes, construction materials


Industrial production growth rate:

2% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

95 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

88.35 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

156,000 bbl/day (2008 est.)


Oil - consumption:

1,352 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

176,700 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

1,492 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

1.5 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$171 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$4.201 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

oil, cattle, cotton, gum arabic


Exports - partners:

US 89.5%, Japan 3.7%, China 3.4% (2007)


Imports:

$1.158 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and transportation equipment, industrial goods,
foodstuffs, textiles


Imports - partners:

France 20.4%, Cameroon 16.1%, US 10.9%, China 10%, Germany 7.5%,
Saudi Arabia 4.4% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

ODA, $379.8 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$969 million (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$1.6 billion (2005 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$4.5 billion (2006 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XAF); note - responsible
authority is the Bank of the Central African States


Currency code:

XAF


Exchange rates:

Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XAF) per US dollar - 480.1
(2007), 522.59 (2006), 527.47 (2005), 528.29 (2004), 581.2 (2003)


Communications
Chad



Telephones - main lines in use:

13,000 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

918,400 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: primitive system with high costs and low
telephone density; fixed-line connections for only about 1 per 1000
persons coupled with mobile-cellular usage of only about 9 per 100
persons
domestic: fair system of radiotelephone communication stations
international: country code - 235; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 2, FM 4, shortwave 5 (2001)


Radios:

1.67 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (2001)


Televisions:

10,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.td


Internet hosts:

5 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2002)


Internet users:

60,000 (2006)


Transportation
Chad



Airports:

55 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 7
over 3,047 m: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 3
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 48
1,524 to 2,437 m: 16
914 to 1,523 m: 21
under 914 m: 11 (2007)


Pipelines:

oil 250 km (2007)


Roadways:

total: 33,400 km
paved: 267 km
unpaved: 33,133 km (2002)


Waterways:

Chari and Legone rivers are navigable only in wet season (2006)


Military
Chad



Military branches:

Armed Forces: Chadian National Army (Armee Nationale du Tchad, ANT),
Chadian Air Force (Force Aerienne Tchadienne, FAT), Gendarmerie
(2008)


Military service age and obligation:

20 years of age for conscripts, with 3-year service obligation; 18
years of age for volunteers; no minimum age restriction for
volunteers with consent from a guardian; women are subject to 1 year
of compulsory military or civic service at age of 21 (2004)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,906,545
females age 16-49: 2,258,758 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,066,565
females age 16-49: 1,279,318 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 116,824
female: 117,831 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

4.2% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Chad



Disputes - international:

since 2003, Janjawid armed militia and the Sudanese military have
driven hundreds of thousands of Darfur residents into Chad; Chad
remains an important mediator in the Sudanese civil conflict,
reducing tensions with Sudan arising from cross-border banditry;
Chadian Aozou rebels reside in southern Libya; only Nigeria and
Cameroon have heeded the Lake Chad Commission's admonition to ratify
the delimitation treaty, which also includes the Chad-Niger and
Niger-Nigeria boundaries


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 234,000 (Sudan); 54,200 (Central
African Republic)
IDPs: 178,918 (2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Chad is a source, transit, and destination
country for children trafficked for the purposes of forced labor and
commercial sexual exploitation; the majority of children are
trafficked within Chad for involuntary domestic servitude, forced
cattle herding, forced begging, forced labor in petty commerce or
the fishing industry, or for commercial sexual exploitation; to a
lesser extent, Chadian children are also trafficked to Cameroon, the
Central African Republic, and Nigeria for cattle herding; children
may also be trafficked from Cameroon and the Central African
Republic to Chad's oil producing regions for sexual exploitation
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Chad is on the Tier 2 Watch List
for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to combat
human trafficking in 2007; Chad was destabilized during 2007 by
civil conflict leading to a declared state of emergency in February
2008, and a steady influx of refugees fleeing Sudan and the Central
African Republic; the government demonstrated insufficient overall
efforts to combat trafficking; Chad has not ratified the 2000 UN TIP
Protocol (2008)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Chile

Introduction
Chile



Background:

Prior to the coming of the Spanish in the 16th century, northern
Chile was under Inca rule while Araucanian Indians (also known as
Mapuches) inhabited central and southern Chile. Although Chile
declared its independence in 1810, decisive victory over the Spanish
was not achieved until 1818. In the War of the Pacific (1879-83),
Chile defeated Peru and Bolivia and won its present northern
regions. It was not until the 1880s that the Araucanian Indians were
completely subjugated. A three-year-old Marxist government of
Salvador ALLENDE was overthrown in 1973 by a military coup led by
Augusto PINOCHET, who ruled until a freely elected president was
installed in 1990. Sound economic policies, maintained consistently
since the 1980s, have contributed to steady growth, reduced poverty
rates by over half, and have helped secure the country's commitment
to democratic and representative government. Chile has increasingly
assumed regional and international leadership roles befitting its
status as a stable, democratic nation.


Geography
Chile



Location:

Southern South America, bordering the South Pacific Ocean, between
Argentina and Peru


Geographic coordinates:

30 00 S, 71 00 W


Map references:

South America


Area:

total: 756,950 sq km
land: 748,800 sq km
water: 8,150 sq km
note: includes Easter Island (Isla de Pascua) and Isla Sala y Gomez


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than twice the size of Montana


Land boundaries:

total: 6,339 km
border countries: Argentina 5,308 km, Bolivia 860 km, Peru 171 km


Coastline:

6,435 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200/350 nm


Climate:

temperate; desert in north; Mediterranean in central region; cool
and damp in south


Terrain:

low coastal mountains; fertile central valley; rugged Andes in east


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: Nevado Ojos del Salado 6,880 m


Natural resources:

copper, timber, iron ore, nitrates, precious metals, molybdenum,
hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 2.62%
permanent crops: 0.43%
other: 96.95% (2005)


Irrigated land:

19,000 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

922 cu km (2000)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 12.55 cu km/yr (11%/25%/64%)
per capita: 770 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

severe earthquakes; active volcanism; tsunamis


Environment - current issues:

widespread deforestation and mining threaten natural resources; air
pollution from industrial and vehicle emissions; water pollution
from raw sewage


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living
Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate
Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered
Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

strategic location relative to sea lanes between Atlantic and
Pacific Oceans (Strait of Magellan, Beagle Channel, Drake Passage);
Atacama Desert is one of world's driest regions


People
Chile



Population:

16,454,143 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 23.6% (male 1,987,962/female 1,899,489)
15-64 years: 67.6% (male 5,556,867/female 5,563,666)
65 years and over: 8.8% (male 602,789/female 843,370) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 31.1 years
male: 30.1 years
female: 32.1 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.905% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

14.82 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

5.77 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.72 male(s)/female
total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 7.9 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 8.7 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 7.06 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 77.15 years
male: 73.88 years
female: 80.59 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.95 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.3% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

26,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

1,400 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Chilean(s)
adjective: Chilean


Ethnic groups:

white and white-Amerindian 95.4%, Mapuche 4%, other indigenous
groups 0.6% (2002 census)


Religions:

Roman Catholic 70%, Evangelical 15.1%, Jehovah's Witness 1.1%, other
Christian 1%, other 4.6%, none 8.3% (2002 census)


Languages:

Spanish (official), Mapudungun, German, English


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 95.7%
male: 95.8%
female: 95.6% (2002 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 14 years
male: 14 years
female: 14 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

3.2% of GDP (2006)


Government
Chile



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Chile
conventional short form: Chile
local long form: Republica de Chile
local short form: Chile


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Santiago
geographic coordinates: 33 27 S, 70 40 W
time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins second Sunday in October; ends
second Sunday in March


Administrative divisions:

15 regions (regiones, singular - region); Aisen del General Carlos
Ibanez del Campo, Antofagasta, Araucania, Arica y Parinacota,
Atacama, Biobio, Coquimbo, Libertador General Bernardo O'Higgins,
Los Lagos, Los Rios, Magallanes y de la Antartica Chilena, Maule,
Region Metropolitana (Santiago), Tarapaca, Valparaiso
note: the US does not recognize claims to Antarctica


Independence:

18 September 1810 (from Spain)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 18 September (1810)


Constitution:

11 September 1980, effective 11 March 1981; amended 1989, 1991,
1997, 1999, 2000, 2003, and 2005


Legal system:

based on Code of 1857 derived from Spanish law and subsequent codes
influenced by French and Austrian law; judicial review of
legislative acts in the Supreme Court; has not accepted compulsory
ICJ jurisdiction; note - in June 2005, Chile completed overhaul of
its criminal justice system to a new, US-style adversarial system


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal and compulsory


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Michelle BACHELET Jeria (since 11 March
2006); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government
head of government: President Michelle BACHELET Jeria (since 11
March 2006)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president
elections: president elected by popular vote for a single four-year
term; election last held 11 December 2005, with runoff election held
15 January 2006 (next to be held in December 2009)
election results: Michelle BACHELET Jeria elected president; percent
of vote - Michelle BACHELET Jeria 53.5%; Sebastian PINERA Echenique
46.5%


Legislative branch:

bicameral National Congress or Congreso Nacional consists of the
Senate or Senado (38 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve
eight-year terms; one-half elected every four years) and the Chamber
of Deputies or Camara de Diputados (120 seats; members are elected
by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
elections: Senate - last held 11 December 2005 (next to be held in
December 2009); Chamber of Deputies - last held 11 December 2005
(next to be held in December 2009)
election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - CPD 20 (PDC 6, PS 8, PPD 3, PRSD 3), APC 17 (UDI 9, RN 8),
independent 1; Chamber of Deputies - percent of vote by party - NA;
seats by party - CPD 65 (PDC 21, PPD 22, PS 15, PRSD 7), APC 54 (UDI
34, RN 20), independent 1; note - as of 8 January 2008: Senate -
seats by party - CPD 18, (PDC 5, PS 8, PPD 2, PRSD 3), APC 16 (UDI
9, RN 7), independent 4; Chamber of Deputies - seats by party - CPD
57 (PDC 16, PPD 19, PS 15, PRSD 7), APC 53 (UDI 33, RN 20),
independent 10.


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (judges are appointed by the
president and ratified by the Senate from lists of candidates
provided by the court itself; the president of the Supreme Court is
elected every three years by the 20-member court); Constitutional
Tribunal


Political parties and leaders:

Alliance for Chile (Alianza) or APC (including National Renewal or
RN [Carlos LARRAIN Pena] and Independent Democratic Union or UDI
[Hernan LARRAIN Fernandez]); Coalition of Parties for Democracy
(Concertacion) or CPD (including Christian Democratic Party or PDC
[Soledad ALVEAR], Socialist Party or PS [Camilo ESCALONA Medina],
Party for Democracy or PPD [Sergio BITAR Chacra], Radical Social
Democratic Party or PRSD [Jose Antonio GOMEZ Urrutia]); Communist
Party or PC [Guillermo TEILLIER]; Humanist Party [Marilen CABRERA
Olmos]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Roman Catholic Church; United Labor Central or CUT includes trade
unionists from the country's five largest labor confederations
other: revitalized university student federations at all major
universities


International organization participation:

APEC, BIS, CAN (associate), FAO, G-15, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICC, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF,
IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES,
LAIA, Mercosur (associate), MIGA, MINUSTAH, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW,
PCA, RG, UN, UNASUR, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, Union Latina,
UNMOGIP, UNTSO, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Mariano FERNANDEZ
chancery: 1732 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036
telephone: [1] (202) 785-1746
FAX: [1] (202) 887-5579
consulate(s) general: Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New
York, Philadelphia, San Francisco, San Juan (Puerto Rico)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Paul E. SIMONS
embassy: Avenida Andres Bello 2800, Las Condes, Santiago
mailing address: APO AA 34033
telephone: [56] (2) 330-3000
FAX: [56] (2) 330-3710, 330-3160


Flag description:

two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and red; a blue square the
same height as the white band at the hoist-side end of the white
band; the square bears a white five-pointed star in the center
representing a guide to progress and honor; blue symbolizes the sky,
white is for the snow-covered Andes, and red represents the blood
spilled to achieve independence
note: design was influenced by the US flag


Economy
Chile



Economy - overview:

Chile has a market-oriented economy characterized by a high level of
foreign trade. During the early 1990s, Chile's reputation as a role
model for economic reform was strengthened when the democratic
government of Patricio AYLWIN - which took over from the military in
1990 - deepened the economic reform initiated by the military
government. Growth in real GDP averaged 8% during 1991-97, but fell
to half that level in 1998 because of tight monetary policies
implemented to keep the current account deficit in check and because
of lower export earnings - the latter a product of the global
financial crisis. A severe drought exacerbated the recession in
1999, reducing crop yields and causing hydroelectric shortfalls and
electricity rationing, and Chile experienced negative economic
growth for the first time in more than 15 years. Despite the effects
of the recession, Chile maintained its reputation for strong
financial institutions and sound policy that have given it the
strongest sovereign bond rating in South America. Between 2000 and
2007 growth ranged between 2%-6%. Throughout these years Chile
maintained a low rate of inflation with GDP growth coming from high
copper prices, solid export earnings (particularly forestry,
fishing, and mining), and growing domestic consumption. President
BACHELET in 2006 established an Economic and Social Stabilization
Fund to hold excess copper revenues so that social spending can be
maintained during periods of copper shortfalls. This fund probably
surpassed $20 billion at the end of 2007. Chile continues to attract
foreign direct investment, but most foreign investment goes into
gas, water, electricity and mining. Unemployment has exhibited a
downward trend over the past two years, dropping to 7.8% and 7.0% at
the end of 2006 and 2007, respectively. Chile deepened its
longstanding commitment to trade liberalization with the signing of
a free trade agreement with the US, which took effect on 1 January
2004. Chile claims to have more bilateral or regional trade
agreements than any other country. It has 57 such agreements (not
all of them full free trade agreements), including with the European
Union, Mercosur, China, India, South Korea, and Mexico.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$232.8 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$163.8 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

5.1% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$14,300 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 4.8%
industry: 51.2%
services: 44% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

7.167 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 13.6%
industry: 23.4%
services: 63% (2003)


Unemployment rate:

7% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

18.2% (2005)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 1.4%
highest 10%: 45% (2003)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

54.9 (2003)


Investment (gross fixed):

20.6% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $44.96 billion
expenditures: $30.51 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

4.1% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

4.4% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

6% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

8.67% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$16.6 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$80.42 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$127.1 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

grapes, apples, pears, onions, wheat, corn, oats, peaches, garlic,
asparagus, beans; beef, poultry, wool; fish; timber


Industries:

copper, other minerals, foodstuffs, fish processing, iron and steel,
wood and wood products, transport equipment, cement, textiles


Industrial production growth rate:

11.1% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

50.37 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

45.52 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

1.628 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 47%
hydro: 51.5%
nuclear: 0%
other: 1.4% (2001)


Oil - production:

11,610 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

253,000 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

32,500 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

222,900 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - proved reserves:

150 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

1.8 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

4.2 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

2.4 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

97.97 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$7.2 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$67.64 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

copper, fruit, fish products, paper and pulp, chemicals, wine


Exports - partners:

China 14.8%, US 12.5%, Japan 10.5%, Netherlands 5.8%, South Korea
5.7%, Italy 5.1%, Brazil 5% (2007)


Imports:

$43.99 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

petroleum and petroleum products, chemicals, electrical and
telecommunications equipment, industrial machinery, vehicles,
natural gas


Imports - partners:

US 16.7%, China 11.2%, Brazil 10.3%, Argentina 9.9% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$0 (2006)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$16.84 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$57.6 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$91.49 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$24.68 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$174.6 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

Chilean peso (CLP)


Currency code:

CLP


Exchange rates:

Chilean pesos (CLP) per US dollar - 526.25 (2007), 530.29 (2006),
560.09 (2005), 609.37 (2004), 691.43 (2003)


Communications
Chile



Telephones - main lines in use:

3.379 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

13.955 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: privatization begun in 1988; most advanced
telecommunications infrastructure in South America; modern system
based on extensive microwave radio relay facilities; fixed-line
connections have dropped in recent years as mobile-cellular usage
continues to increase, reaching a level of 85 telephones per 100
persons
domestic: extensive microwave radio relay links; domestic satellite
system with 3 earth stations
international: country code - 56; submarine cables provide links to
the US and to Central and South America; satellite earth stations -
2 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 180 (8 inactive), FM 64, shortwave 17 (1 inactive) (1998)


Radios:

5.18 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

63 (plus 121 repeaters) (1997)


Televisions:

3.15 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.cl


Internet hosts:

847,215 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

7 (2000)


Internet users:

5.57 million (2007)


Transportation
Chile



Airports:

358 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 79
over 3,047 m: 5
2,438 to 3,047 m: 8
1,524 to 2,437 m: 22
914 to 1,523 m: 25
under 914 m: 19 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 279
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 12
914 to 1,523 m: 49
under 914 m: 216 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 2,550 km; gas/liquid petroleum gas 42 km; liquid petroleum gas
539 km; oil 1,002 km; refined products 757 km; unknown (oil/water)
97 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 6,585 km
broad gauge: 2,831 km 1.676-m gauge (1,317 km electrified)
narrow gauge: 3,754 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 80,505 km
paved: 16,745 km (includes 2,414 km of expressways)
unpaved: 63,760 km (2004)


Merchant marine:

total: 44
by type: bulk carrier 9, cargo 7, chemical tanker 8, container 1,
liquefied gas 2, passenger 4, passenger/cargo 2, petroleum tanker 7,
roll on/roll off 1, vehicle carrier 3
registered in other countries: 40 (Argentina 7, Brazil 1, Cyprus 1,
Isle of Man 6, Marshall Islands 4, Norway 2, Panama 12, Singapore 6,
Venezuela 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Coronel, Huasco, Lirquen, Puerto Ventanas, San Antonio, San Vicente,
Valparaiso


Military
Chile



Military branches:

Army of the Nation, Chilean Navy (Armada de Chile, includes naval
air, marine corps, and Maritime Territory and Merchant Marine
Directorate (Directemar)), Chilean Air Force (Fuerza Aerea de Chile,
FACh), Carabineros Corps (Cuerpo de Carabineros) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18-45 years of age for voluntary male and female military service,
although the right to compulsory recruitment is retained; service
obligation - 12 months for Army, 22 months for Navy and Air Force
(2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 4,242,912
females age 16-49: 4,182,509 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 3,542,448
females age 16-49: 3,500,059 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 147,518
female: 141,139 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

2.7% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Chile



Disputes - international:

Chile and Peru rebuff Bolivia's reinvigorated claim to restore the
Atacama corridor, ceded to Chile in 1884, but Chile has offered
instead unrestricted but not sovereign maritime access through Chile
to Bolivian gas and other commodities; Chile rejects Peru's
unilateral legislation to change its latitudinal maritime boundary
with Chile to an equidistance line with a southwestern axis favoring
Peru, in October 2007, Peru took its maritime complaint with Chile
to the ICJ; territorial claim in Antarctica (Chilean Antarctic
Territory) partially overlaps Argentine and British claims; the
joint boundary commission, established by Chile and Argentina in
2001, has yet to map and demarcate the delimited boundary in the
inhospitable Andean Southern Ice Field (Campo de Hielo Sur)


Illicit drugs:

transshipment country for cocaine destined for Europe and the
region; economic prosperity and increasing trade have made Chile
more attractive to traffickers seeking to launder drug profits,
especially through the Iquique Free Trade Zone, but a recent
anti-money-laundering law improves controls; imported precursors
passed on to Bolivia; domestic cocaine consumption is rising, making
Chile a significant consumer of cocaine



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@China

Introduction
China



Background:

For centuries China stood as a leading civilization, outpacing the
rest of the world in the arts and sciences, but in the 19th and
early 20th centuries, the country was beset by civil unrest, major
famines, military defeats, and foreign occupation. After World War
II, the Communists under MAO Zedong established an autocratic
socialist system that, while ensuring China's sovereignty, imposed
strict controls over everyday life and cost the lives of tens of
millions of people. After 1978, his successor DENG Xiaoping and
other leaders focused on market-oriented economic development and by
2000 output had quadrupled. For much of the population, living
standards have improved dramatically and the room for personal
choice has expanded, yet political controls remain tight.


Geography
China



Location:

Eastern Asia, bordering the East China Sea, Korea Bay, Yellow Sea,
and South China Sea, between North Korea and Vietnam


Geographic coordinates:

35 00 N, 105 00 E


Map references:

Asia


Area:

total: 9,596,960 sq km
land: 9,326,410 sq km
water: 270,550 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than the US


Land boundaries:

total: 22,117 km
border countries: Afghanistan 76 km, Bhutan 470 km, Burma 2,185 km,
India 3,380 km, Kazakhstan 1,533 km, North Korea 1,416 km,
Kyrgyzstan 858 km, Laos 423 km, Mongolia 4,677 km, Nepal 1,236 km,
Pakistan 523 km, Russia (northeast) 3,605 km, Russia (northwest) 40
km, Tajikistan 414 km, Vietnam 1,281 km
regional borders: Hong Kong 30 km, Macau 0.34 km


Coastline:

14,500 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin


Climate:

extremely diverse; tropical in south to subarctic in north


Terrain:

mostly mountains, high plateaus, deserts in west; plains, deltas,
and hills in east


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Turpan Pendi -154 m
highest point: Mount Everest 8,850 m


Natural resources:

coal, iron ore, petroleum, natural gas, mercury, tin, tungsten,
antimony, manganese, molybdenum, vanadium, magnetite, aluminum,
lead, zinc, uranium, hydropower potential (world's largest)


Land use:

arable land: 14.86%
permanent crops: 1.27%
other: 83.87% (2005)


Irrigated land:

545,960 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

2,829.6 cu km (1999)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 549.76 cu km/yr (7%/26%/68%)
per capita: 415 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

frequent typhoons (about five per year along southern and eastern
coasts); damaging floods; tsunamis; earthquakes; droughts; land
subsidence


Environment - current issues:

air pollution (greenhouse gases, sulfur dioxide particulates) from
reliance on coal produces acid rain; water shortages, particularly
in the north; water pollution from untreated wastes; deforestation;
estimated loss of one-fifth of agricultural land since 1949 to soil
erosion and economic development; desertification; trade in
endangered species


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic Treaty,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

world's fourth largest country (after Russia, Canada, and US); Mount
Everest on the border with Nepal is the world's tallest peak


People
China



Population:

1,330,044,544 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 20.1% (male 142,085,665/female 125,300,391)
15-64 years: 71.9% (male 491,513,378/female 465,020,030)
65 years and over: 8% (male 50,652,480/female 55,472,661) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 33.6 years
male: 33.1 years
female: 34.2 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.629% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

13.71 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

7.03 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-0.39 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.11 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.13 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.91 male(s)/female
total population: 1.06 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 21.16 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 19.43 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 23.08 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 73.18 years
male: 71.37 years
female: 75.18 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.77 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.1% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

840,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

44,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: intermediate
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: Crimean Congo hemorrhagic fever, Japanese
encephalitis, and malaria
water contact disease: leptospirosis
animal contact disease: rabies
note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Chinese (singular and plural)
adjective: Chinese


Ethnic groups:

Han Chinese 91.5%, Zhuang, Manchu, Hui, Miao, Uyghur, Tujia, Yi,
Mongol, Tibetan, Buyi, Dong, Yao, Korean, and other nationalities
8.5% (2000 census)


Religions:

Daoist (Taoist), Buddhist, Christian 3%-4%, Muslim 1%-2%
note: officially atheist (2002 est.)


Languages:

Standard Chinese or Mandarin (Putonghua, based on the Beijing
dialect), Yue (Cantonese), Wu (Shanghainese), Minbei (Fuzhou),
Minnan (Hokkien-Taiwanese), Xiang, Gan, Hakka dialects, minority
languages (see Ethnic groups entry)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 90.9%
male: 95.1%
female: 86.5% (2000 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 11 years
male: 11 years
female: 11 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

1.9% of GDP (1999)


Government
China



Country name:

conventional long form: People's Republic of China
conventional short form: China
local long form: Zhonghua Renmin Gongheguo
local short form: Zhongguo
abbreviation: PRC


Government type:

Communist state


Capital:

name: Beijing
geographic coordinates: 39 55 N, 116 23 E
time difference: UTC+8 (13 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
note: despite its size, all of China falls within one time zone


Administrative divisions:

23 provinces (sheng, singular and plural), 5 autonomous regions
(zizhiqu, singular and plural), and 4 municipalities (shi, singular
and plural)
provinces: Anhui, Fujian, Gansu, Guangdong, Guizhou, Hainan, Hebei,
Heilongjiang, Henan, Hubei, Hunan, Jiangsu, Jiangxi, Jilin,
Liaoning, Qinghai, Shaanxi, Shandong, Shanxi, Sichuan, Yunnan,
Zhejiang; (see note on Taiwan)
autonomous regions: Guangxi, Nei Mongol, Ningxia, Xinjiang Uygur,
Xizang (Tibet)
municipalities: Beijing, Chongqing, Shanghai, Tianjin
note: China considers Taiwan its 23rd province; see separate entries
for the special administrative regions of Hong Kong and Macau


Independence:

221 BC (unification under the Qin or Ch'in Dynasty); 1 January 1912
(Manchu Dynasty replaced by a Republic); 1 October 1949 (People's
Republic established)


National holiday:

Anniversary of the Founding of the People's Republic of China, 1
October (1949)


Constitution:

most recent promulgation 4 December 1982


Legal system:

based on civil law system; derived from Soviet and continental civil
code legal principles; legislature retains power to interpret
statutes; constitution ambiguous on judicial review of legislation;
has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President HU Jintao (since 15 March 2003); Vice
President XI Jinping (since 15 March 2008)
head of government: Premier WEN Jiabao (since 16 March 2003);
Executive Vice Premier LI Keqiang (17 March 2008), Vice Premier HUI
Liangyu (since 17 March 2003), Vice Premier ZHANG Deijiang (since 17
March 2008), and Vice Premier WANG Qishan (since 17 March 2008)
cabinet: State Council appointed by National People's Congress (NPC)
elections: president and vice president elected by National People's
Congress for a five-year term (eligible for a second term);
elections last held 15-17 March 2008 (next to be held in mid-March
2013); premier nominated by president, confirmed by National
People's Congress
election results: HU Jintao elected president by National People's
Congress with a total of 2,963 votes; XI Jinping elected vice
president with a total of 2,919 votes


Legislative branch:

unicameral National People's Congress or Quanguo Renmin Daibiao
Dahui (2,987 seats; members elected by municipal, regional, and
provincial people's congresses, and People's Liberation Army to
serve five-year terms)
elections: last held December 2007-February 2008; date of next
election - NA
election results: percent of vote - NA; seats - 2,987


Judicial branch:

Supreme People's Court (judges appointed by the National People's
Congress); Local People's Courts (comprise higher, intermediate, and
basic courts); Special People's Courts (primarily military,
maritime, railway transportation, and forestry courts)


Political parties and leaders:

Chinese Communist Party or CCP [HU Jintao]; eight registered small
parties controlled by CCP


Political pressure groups and leaders:

the China Democracy Party; the Falungong spiritual movement
note: no substantial political opposition groups exist, although the
government has identified the organizations listed above as
subversive groups


International organization participation:

ADB, AfDB (nonregional members), APEC, APT, Arctic Council
(observer), ARF, ASEAN (dialogue partner), BIS, CDB, EAS, FAO, G-24
(observer), G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), IPU,
ISO, ITSO, ITU, LAIA (observer), MIGA, MINURSO, MONUC, NAM
(observer), NSG, OAS (observer), OPCW, PCA, PIF (partner), SAARC
(observer), SCO, UN, UN Security Council, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNITAR, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNMIT, UNOCI, UNTSO,
UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador ZHOU Wenzhong
chancery: 2300 Connecticut Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 328-2500
FAX: [1] (202) 328-2582
consulate(s) general: Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, New York, San
Francisco


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Clark T. RANDT, Jr.
embassy: 55 An Jia Lou Lu, 100600 Beijing
mailing address: PSC 461, Box 50, FPO AP 96521-0002
telephone: [86] (10) 8531-3000
FAX: [86] (10) 8531-3300
consulate(s) general: Chengdu, Guangzhou, Hong Kong and Macau,
Shanghai, Shenyang


Flag description:

red with a large yellow five-pointed star and four smaller yellow
five-pointed stars (arranged in a vertical arc toward the middle of
the flag) in the upper hoist-side corner


Economy
China



Economy - overview:

China's economy during the last quarter century has changed from a
centrally planned system that was largely closed to international
trade to a more market-oriented economy that has a rapidly growing
private sector and is a major player in the global economy. Reforms
started in the late 1970s with the phasing out of collectivized
agriculture, and expanded to include the gradual liberalization of
prices, fiscal decentralization, increased autonomy for state
enterprises, the foundation of a diversified banking system, the
development of stock markets, the rapid growth of the non-state
sector, and the opening to foreign trade and investment. China has
generally implemented reforms in a gradualist or piecemeal fashion,
including the sale of minority shares in four of China's largest
state banks to foreign investors and refinements in foreign exchange
and bond markets in 2005. After keeping its currency tightly linked
to the US dollar for years, China in July 2005 revalued its currency
by 2.1% against the US dollar and moved to an exchange rate system
that references a basket of currencies. Cumulative appreciation of
the renminbi against the US dollar since the end of the dollar peg
reached 15% in January 2008. The restructuring of the economy and
resulting efficiency gains have contributed to a more than tenfold
increase in GDP since 1978. Measured on a purchasing power parity
(PPP) basis, China in 2007 stood as the second-largest economy in
the world after the US, although in per capita terms the country is
still lower middle-income. Annual inflows of foreign direct
investment in 2007 rose to $75 billion. By the end of 2007, more
than 5,000 domestic Chinese enterprises had established direct
investments in 172 countries and regions around the world. The
Chinese government faces several economic development challenges:
(a) to sustain adequate job growth for tens of millions of workers
laid off from state-owned enterprises, migrants, and new entrants to
the work force; (b) to reduce corruption and other economic crimes;
and (c) to contain environmental damage and social strife related to
the economy's rapid transformation. Economic development has been
more rapid in coastal provinces than in the interior, and
approximately 200 million rural laborers have relocated to urban
areas to find work. One demographic consequence of the "one child"
policy is that China is now one of the most rapidly aging countries
in the world. Deterioration in the environment - notably air
pollution, soil erosion, and the steady fall of the water table,
especially in the north - is another long-term problem. China
continues to lose arable land because of erosion and economic
development. In 2007 China intensified government efforts to improve
environmental conditions, tying the evaluation of local officials to
environmental targets, publishing a national climate change policy,
and establishing a high level leading group on climate change,
headed by Premier WEN Jiabao. The Chinese government seeks to add
energy production capacity from sources other than coal and oil as
its double-digit economic growth increases demand. Chinese energy
officials in 2007 agreed to purchase five third generation nuclear
reactors from Western companies. More power generating capacity came
on line in 2006 as large scale investments - including the Three
Gorges Dam across the Yangtze River - were completed.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$7.099 trillion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$3.251 trillion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

11.9% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$5,400 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 11.3%
industry: 48.6%
services: 40.1% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

800.7 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 43%
industry: 25%
services: 32% (2006 est.)


Unemployment rate:

4% unemployment in urban areas; substantial unemployment and
underemployment in rural areas (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

8%
note: 21.5 million rural population live below the official
"absolute poverty" line (approximately $90 per year); and an
additional 35.5 million rural population above that but below the
official "low income" line (approximately $125 per year) (2006 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 1.6%
highest 10%: 34.9% (2004)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

47 (2007)


Investment (gross fixed):

42.7% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $674.3 billion
expenditures: $651.6 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

18.4% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

4.8% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

3.33% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

7.47% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$2.09 trillion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$3.437 trillion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$4.653 trillion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

rice, wheat, potatoes, corn, peanuts, tea, millet, barley, apples,
cotton, oilseed; pork; fish


Industries:

mining and ore processing, iron, steel, aluminum, and other metals,
coal; machine building; armaments; textiles and apparel; petroleum;
cement; chemicals; fertilizers; consumer products, including
footwear, toys, and electronics; food processing; transportation
equipment, including automobiles, rail cars and locomotives, ships,
and aircraft; telecommunications equipment, commercial space launch
vehicles, satellites


Industrial production growth rate:

13.4% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

3.256 trillion kWh (2007)


Electricity - consumption:

2.859 trillion kWh (2006)


Electricity - exports:

14.04 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

4.771 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 80.2%
hydro: 18.5%
nuclear: 1.2%
other: 0.1% (2001)


Oil - production:

3.725 million bbl/day (2008 est.)


Oil - consumption:

7.578 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

79,060 bbl/day (2007)


Oil - imports:

3.19 million bbl/day (2007)


Oil - proved reserves:

16 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

69.27 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

70.51 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

2.69 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

3.92 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

2.265 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$371.8 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$1.22 trillion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

machinery, electrical products, data processing equipment, apparel,
textile, steel, mobile phones


Exports - partners:

US 19.1%, Hong Kong 15.1%, Japan 8.4%, South Korea 4.6%, Germany 4%
(2007)


Imports:

$904.6 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, oil and mineral fuels, plastics, LED
screens, data processing equipment, optical and medical equipment,
organic chemicals, steel, copper


Imports - partners:

Japan 14%, South Korea 10.9%, Taiwan 10.5%, US 7.3%, Germany 4.7%
(2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$1.641 billion (FY07)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$1.534 trillion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$363 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$758.9 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$93.75 billion ( 2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$4.477 trillion (31 December 2007 est.)


Currency (code):

Renminbi (RMB); note - also referred to by the unit yuan (CNY)


Currency code:

CNY


Exchange rates:

Renminbi yuan (RMB) per US dollar - 7.61 (2007), 7.97 (2006), 8.1943
(2005), 8.2768 (2004), 8.277 (2003)


Communications
China



Telephones - main lines in use:

365.4 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

547.286 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: domestic and international services are
increasingly available for private use; unevenly distributed
domestic system serves principal cities, industrial centers, and
many towns; nonetheless, by the end of 2006, more than 95% of
China's villages had been connected to the telephone network; China
continues to develop its telecommunications infrastructure, and is
partnering with foreign providers to expand its global reach; 3 of
China's 6 major telecommunications operators are part of an
international consortium which, in December 2006, signed an
agreement with Verizon Business to build the first next-generation
fiber optic submarine cable system directly linking the US mainland
and China
domestic: interprovincial fiber-optic trunk lines and cellular
telephone systems have been installed; mobile-cellular
subscribership is increasing rapidly; the number of Internet users
reached 253 million in 2008; a domestic satellite system with 55
earth stations is in place
international: country code - 86; a number of submarine cables
provide connectivity to Asia, the Middle East, Europe, and the US;
satellite earth stations - 7 (5 Intelsat - 4 Pacific Ocean and 1
Indian Ocean; 1 Intersputnik - Indian Ocean region; and 1 Inmarsat -
Pacific and Indian Ocean regions) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 369, FM 259, shortwave 45 (1998)


Radios:

417 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

3,240 (of which 209 are operated by China Central Television, 31 are
provincial TV stations, and nearly 3,000 are local city stations)
(1997)


Televisions:

400 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.cn


Internet hosts:

14.306 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

3 (2000)


Internet users:

253 million (2008)


Transportation
China



Airports:

467 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 403
over 3,047 m: 58
2,438 to 3,047 m: 128
1,524 to 2,437 m: 130
914 to 1,523 m: 20
under 914 m: 67 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 64
over 3,047 m: 4
2,438 to 3,047 m: 4
1,524 to 2,437 m: 13
914 to 1,523 m: 17
under 914 m: 26 (2007)


Heliports:

35 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 26,344 km; oil 17,240 km; refined products 6,106 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 75,438 km
standard gauge: 75,438 km 1.435-m gauge (20,151 km electrified)
(2005)


Roadways:

total: 1,930,544 km
paved: 1,575,571 km (includes 41,005 km of expressways)
unpaved: 354,973 km (2005)


Waterways:

124,000 km navigable (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 1,826
by type: barge carrier 4, bulk carrier 451, cargo 689, carrier 2,
chemical tanker 69, combination ore/oil 1, container 162, liquefied
gas 44, passenger 8, passenger/cargo 83, petroleum tanker 244,
refrigerated cargo 33, roll on/roll off 10, specialized tanker 9,
vehicle carrier 17
foreign-owned: 20 (Ecuador 1, Greece 2, Hong Kong 12, Indonesia 1,
Japan 2, South Korea 1, Norway 1)
registered in other countries: 1,441 (Bahamas 10, Bangladesh 1,
Belize 71, Bermuda 10, Bolivia 1, Cambodia 193, Cyprus 10, France 5,
Georgia 10, Germany 2, Honduras 3, Hong Kong 324, India 1, Indonesia
2, Kiribati 15, South Korea 1, Liberia 11, Malta 12, Marshall
Islands 7, Mongolia 1, Norway 36, Panama 532, Philippines 4, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines 94, Sierra Leone 15, Singapore 14,
Thailand 1, Tuvalu 16, unknown 39) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Dalian, Guangzhou, Ningbo, Qingdao, Qinhuangdao, Shanghai, Shenzhen,
Tianjin


Military
China



Military branches:

People's Liberation Army (PLA): Ground Forces, Navy (includes
marines and naval aviation), Air Force (includes airborne forces),
and Second Artillery Corps (strategic missile force); People's Armed
Police (PAP); PLA Reserve Force (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18-22 years of age for selective compulsory military service, with
24-month service obligation; no minimum age for voluntary service
(all officers are volunteers); 18-19 years of age for women high
school graduates who meet requirements for specific military jobs
(2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 375,009,345
females age 16-49: 354,314,328 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 313,321,639
females age 16-49: 295,951,438 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 10,760,380
female: 9,710,032 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

4.3% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
China



Disputes - international:

continuing talks and confidence-building measures work toward
reducing tensions over Kashmir that nonetheless remains militarized
with portions under the de facto administration of China (Aksai
Chin), India (Jammu and Kashmir), and Pakistan (Azad Kashmir and
Northern Areas); India does not recognize Pakistan's ceding historic
Kashmir lands to China in 1964; China and India continue their
security and foreign policy dialogue started in 2005 related to the
dispute over most of their rugged, militarized boundary, regional
nuclear proliferation, and other matters; China claims most of
India's Arunachal Pradesh to the base of the Himalayas; lacking any
treaty describing the boundary, Bhutan and China continue
negotiations to establish a common boundary alignment to resolve
territorial disputes due to cartographic discrepancies; Chinese maps
show an international boundary symbol off the coasts of the littoral
states of the South China Seas, where China has interrupted
Vietnamese hydrocarbon exploration; China asserts sovereignty over
the Spratly Islands together with Malaysia, Philippines, Taiwan,
Vietnam, and possibly Brunei; the 2002 "Declaration on the Conduct
of Parties in the South China Sea" eased tensions in the Spratly's
but is not the legally binding "code of conduct" sought by some
parties; Vietnam and China continue to expand construction of
facilities in the Spratly's and in March 2005, the national oil
companies of China, the Philippines, and Vietnam signed a joint
accord on marine seismic activities in the Spratly Islands; China
occupies some of the Paracel Islands also claimed by Vietnam and
Taiwan; China and Taiwan continue to reject both Japan's claims to
the uninhabited islands of Senkaku-shoto (Diaoyu Tai) and Japan's
unilaterally declared equidistance line in the East China Sea, the
site of intensive hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation; certain
islands in the Yalu and Tumen rivers are in dispute with North
Korea; North Korea and China seek to stem illegal migration to China
by North Koreans, fleeing privations and oppression, by building a
fence along portions of the border and imprisoning North Koreans
deported by China; China and Russia have demarcated the once
disputed islands at the Amur and Ussuri confluence and in the Argun
River in accordance with their 2004 Agreement; China and Tajikistan
have begun demarcating the revised boundary agreed to in the
delimitation of 2002; the decade-long demarcation of the
China-Vietnam land boundary is expected to be completed by the end
of 2008, while the maritime boundary delimitation and fisheries
agreements in the Gulf of Tonkin, ratified in June 2004, have been
implemented; citing environmental, cultural, and social concerns,
China has reconsidered construction of 13 dams on the Salween River,
but energy-starved Burma, with backing from Thailand, remains intent
on building five hydro-electric dams downstream despite regional and
international protests; Chinese and Hong Kong authorities met in
March 2008 to resolve ownership and use of lands recovered in
Shenzhen River channelization, including 96-hectare Lok Ma Chau
Loop; Hong Kong developing plans to reduce 2,000 out of 2,800
hectares of its restricted Closed Area by 2010


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 300,897 (Vietnam); estimated
30,000-50,000 (North Korea)
IDPs: 90,000 (2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: China is a source, transit, and destination
country for men, women, and children trafficked for the purposes of
sexual exploitation and forced labor; the majority of trafficking in
China occurs within the country's borders, but there is also
considerable international trafficking of Chinese citizens to
Africa, Asia, Europe, Latin America, the Middle East, and North
America; Chinese women are lured abroad through false promises of
legitimate employment, only to be forced into commercial sexual
exploitation, largely in Taiwan, Thailand, Malaysia, and Japan;
women and children are trafficked to China from Mongolia, Burma,
North Korea, Russia, and Vietnam for forced labor, marriage, and
prostitution; some North Korean women and children seeking to leave
their country voluntarily cross the border into China and are then
sold into prostitution, marriage, or forced labor
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - China is on the Tier 2 Watch List
for the fourth consecutive year for its failure to provide evidence
of increasing efforts to combat human trafficking, particularly in
terms of punishment of trafficking crimes and the protection of
Chinese and foreign victims of trafficking; victims are sometimes
punished for unlawful acts that were committed as a direct result of
their being trafficked, such as violations of prostitution or
immigration/emigration controls; the Chinese Government continued to
treat North Korean victims of trafficking solely as economic
migrants, routinely deporting them back to horrendous conditions in
North Korea; additional challenges facing the Chinese Government
include the enormous size of its trafficking problem and the
significant level of corruption and complicity in trafficking by
some local government officials (2008)


Illicit drugs:

major transshipment point for heroin produced in the Golden Triangle
region of Southeast Asia; growing domestic drug abuse problem;
source country for chemical precursors, despite new regulations on
its large chemical industry



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Christmas Island

Introduction
Christmas Island



Background:

Named in 1643 for the day of its discovery, the island was annexed
and settlement began by the UK in 1888. Phosphate mining began in
the 1890s. The UK transferred sovereignty to Australia in 1958.
Almost two-thirds of the island has been declared a national park.


Geography
Christmas Island



Location:

Southeastern Asia, island in the Indian Ocean, south of Indonesia


Geographic coordinates:

10 30 S, 105 40 E


Map references:

Southeast Asia


Area:

total: 135 sq km
land: 135 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

about three-quarters the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

138.9 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 12 nm
exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical with a wet season (December to April) and dry season; heat
and humidity moderated by trade winds


Terrain:

steep cliffs along coast rise abruptly to central plateau


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
highest point: Murray Hill 361 m


Natural resources:

phosphate, beaches


Land use:

arable land: 0%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 100% (mainly tropical rainforest; 63% of the island is a
national park) (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

the narrow fringing reef surrounding the island can be a maritime
hazard


Environment - current issues:

loss of rainforest; impact of phosphate mining


Geography - note:

located along major sea lanes of Indian Ocean


People
Christmas Island



Population:

1,402 (July 2007 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: NA
15-64 years: NA
65 years and over: NA


Population growth rate:

0% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Death rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

NA


Infant mortality rate:

total: NA
male: NA
female: NA (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: NA
male: NA
female: NA (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

NA (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Christmas Islander(s)
adjective: Christmas Island


Ethnic groups:

Chinese 70%, European 20%, Malay 10%
note: no indigenous population (2001)


Religions:

Buddhist 36%, Muslim 25%, Christian 18%, other 21% (1997)


Languages:

English (official), Chinese, Malay


Literacy:

NA


Government
Christmas Island



Country name:

conventional long form: Territory of Christmas Island
conventional short form: Christmas Island


Dependency status:

non-self governing territory of Australia; administered from
Canberra by the Australian Attorney-General's Department


Government type:

NA


Capital:

name: The Settlement
geographic coordinates: 10 25 S, 105 43 E
time difference: UTC+7 (12 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

none (territory of Australia)


Independence:

none (territory of Australia)


National holiday:

Australia Day, 26 January (1788)


Constitution:

Christmas Island Act of 1958-59 (1 October 1958) as amended by the
Territories Law Reform Act of 1992


Legal system:

under the authority of the governor general of Australia and
Australian law


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952),
represented by the Australian governor general
head of government: Administrator Neil LUCAS (since 30 January 2006)
elections: the monarch is hereditary; administrator appointed by the
governor general of Australia and represents the monarch and
Australia


Legislative branch:

unicameral Christmas Island Shire Council (9 seats; members elected
by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
elections: held every two years with half the members standing for
election; last held 20 October 2007 (next to be held in 2009)
election results: percent of vote - NA; seats - independents 9


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court; District Court; Magistrate's Court


Political parties and leaders:

none


Political pressure groups and leaders:

none


International organization participation:

none


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (territory of Australia)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (territory of Australia)


Flag description:

territorial flag; divided diagonally from upper hoist to lower fly;
the upper triangle is green with a yellow image of the Golden Bosun
Bird superimposed, while the lower triangle is blue with the
Southern Cross constellation, representing Australia, superimposed;
a centered yellow disk displays a green map of the island
note: the flag of Australia is used for official purposes


Economy
Christmas Island



Economy - overview:

Phosphate mining had been the only significant economic activity,
but in December 1987 the Australian Government closed the mine. In
1991, the mine was reopened. With the support of the government, a
$34 million casino opened in 1993, but closed in 1998. The
Australian Government in 2001 agreed to support the creation of a
commercial space-launching site on the island, expected to begin
operations in the near future.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$NA


Labor force:

NA


Budget:

revenues: $NA
expenditures: $NA


Fiscal year:

1 July - 30 June


Agriculture - products:

NA


Industries:

tourism, phosphate extraction (near depletion)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: NA
hydro: NA
nuclear: NA
other: NA


Exports:

$NA


Exports - commodities:

phosphate


Exports - partners:

Australia, NZ (2006)


Imports:

$NA


Imports - commodities:

consumer goods


Imports - partners:

principally Australia (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$NA


Currency (code):

Australian dollar (AUD)


Currency code:

AUD


Exchange rates:

Australian dollars (AUD) per US dollar - 1.2137 (2007), 1.3285
(2006), 1.3095 (2005), 1.3598 (2004), 1.5419 (2003)


Communications
Christmas Island



Telephones - main lines in use:

NA


Telephone system:

general assessment: service provided by the Australian network
domestic: GSM mobile telephone service replaced older analog system
in February 2005
international: country code - 61-8; satellite earth station - 1
(Intelsat provides telephone and telex service) (2005)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 0 (2006)


Radios:

1,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

0 (TV broadcasts received via satellite from mainland Australia)
(2006)


Televisions:

600 (1997)


Internet country code:

.cx


Internet hosts:

1,821 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

2 (2000)


Internet users:

464 (2001)


Transportation
Christmas Island



Airports:

1 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 140 km
paved: 30 km
unpaved: 110 km (2007)


Ports and terminals:

Flying Fish Cove


Military
Christmas Island



Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of Australia


Transnational Issues
Christmas Island



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Clipperton Island

Introduction
Clipperton Island



Background:

This isolated island was named for John CLIPPERTON, a pirate who
made it his hideout early in the 18th century. Annexed by France in
1855, it was seized by Mexico in 1897. Arbitration eventually
awarded the island to France, which took possession in 1935.


Geography
Clipperton Island



Location:

Middle America, atoll in the North Pacific Ocean, 1,120 km southwest
of Mexico


Geographic coordinates:

10 17 N, 109 13 W


Map references:

Political Map of the World


Area:

total: 6 sq km
land: 6 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

about 12 times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

11.1 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; humid, average temperature 20-32 degrees C, wet season
(May to October)


Terrain:

coral atoll


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: Rocher Clipperton 29 m


Natural resources:

fish


Land use:

arable land: 0%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 100% (all coral) (2005)


Irrigated land:

0 sq km


Natural hazards:

NA


Environment - current issues:

NA


Geography - note:

reef 12 km in circumference


People
Clipperton Island



Population:

uninhabited


Government
Clipperton Island



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Clipperton Island
local long form: none
local short form: Ile Clipperton
former: sometimes called Ile de la Passion


Dependency status:

possession of France; administered directly by the Minister of
Overseas France


Legal system:

the laws of France, where applicable, apply


Flag description:

the flag of France is used


Economy
Clipperton Island



Economy - overview:

Although 115 species of fish have been identified in the territorial
waters of Clipperton Island, the only economic activity is tuna
fishing.



Transportation
Clipperton Island



Ports and terminals:

none; offshore anchorage only


Military
Clipperton Island



Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of France


Transnational Issues
Clipperton Island



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Cocos (Keeling) Islands

Introduction
Cocos (Keeling) Islands



Background:

There are 27 coral islands in the group. Captain William KEELING
discovered the islands in 1609, but they remained uninhabited until
the 19th century. From the 1820s to 1978, members of the CLUNIE-ROSS
family controlled the islands and the copra produced from local
coconuts. Annexed by the UK in 1857, the Cocos Islands were
transferred to the Australian Government in 1955. The population on
the two inhabited islands generally is split between the ethnic
Europeans on West Island and the ethnic Malays on Home Island.


Geography
Cocos (Keeling) Islands



Location:

Southeastern Asia, group of islands in the Indian Ocean, southwest
of Indonesia, about halfway from Australia to Sri Lanka


Geographic coordinates:

12 30 S, 96 50 E


Map references:

Southeast Asia


Area:

total: 14 sq km
land: 14 sq km
water: 0 sq km
note: includes the two main islands of West Island and Home Island


Area - comparative:

about 24 times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

26 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical with high humidity, moderated by the southeast trade winds
for about nine months of the year


Terrain:

flat, low-lying coral atolls


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
highest point: unnamed location 5 m


Natural resources:

fish


Land use:

arable land: 0%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 100% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

cyclone season is October to April


Environment - current issues:

fresh water resources are limited to rainwater accumulations in
natural underground reservoirs


Geography - note:

islands are thickly covered with coconut palms and other vegetation;
site of a World War I naval battle in November 1914 between the
Australian light cruiser HMAS Sydney and the German raider SMS
Emden; after being heavily damaged in the engagement, the Emden was
beached by her captain on North Keeling Island


People
Cocos (Keeling) Islands



Population:

596 (July 2007 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: NA
15-64 years: NA
65 years and over: NA


Population growth rate:

0% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Death rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: NA
male: NA
female: NA (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: NA
male: NA
female: NA (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

NA (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Cocos Islander(s)
adjective: Cocos Islander


Ethnic groups:

Europeans, Cocos Malays


Religions:

Sunni Muslim 80%, other 20% (2002 est.)


Languages:

Malay (Cocos dialect), English


Literacy:

NA


Government
Cocos (Keeling) Islands



Country name:

conventional long form: Territory of Cocos (Keeling) Islands
conventional short form: Cocos (Keeling) Islands


Dependency status:

non-self governing territory of Australia; administered from
Canberra by the Australian Attorney-General's Department


Government type:

NA


Capital:

name: West Island
geographic coordinates: 12 10 S, 96 50 E
time difference: UTC+6.5 (11.5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

none (territory of Australia)


Independence:

none (territory of Australia)


National holiday:

Australia Day, 26 January (1788)


Constitution:

Cocos (Keeling) Islands Act of 1955 (23 November 1955) as amended by
the Territories Law Reform Act of 1992


Legal system:

based upon the laws of Australia and local laws


Suffrage:

NA


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by the Australian governor general
head of government: Administrator (nonresident) Neil LUCAS (since 30
January 2006)
cabinet: NA
elections: the monarch is hereditary; administrator appointed by the
governor general of Australia and represents the monarch and
Australia


Legislative branch:

unicameral Cocos (Keeling) Islands Shire Council (7 seats)
elections: held every two years with half the members standing for
election; last held in May 2007 (next to be held in May 2009)


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court; Magistrate's Court


Political parties and leaders:

none


Political pressure groups and leaders:

The Cocos Islands Youth Support Centre


International organization participation:

none


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (territory of Australia)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (territory of Australia)


Flag description:

the flag of Australia is used


Economy
Cocos (Keeling) Islands



Economy - overview:

Grown throughout the islands, coconuts are the sole cash crop. Small
local gardens and fishing contribute to the food supply, but
additional food and most other necessities must be imported from
Australia. There is a small tourist industry.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$NA


Labor force:

NA


Labor force - by occupation:

note: the Cocos Islands Cooperative Society Ltd. employs
construction workers, stevedores, and lighterage workers; tourism
employs others


Unemployment rate:

60% (2000 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $NA
expenditures: $NA


Fiscal year:

1 July - 30 June


Agriculture - products:

vegetables, bananas, pawpaws, coconuts


Industries:

copra products and tourism


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: NA
hydro: NA
nuclear: NA
other: NA


Exports:

$NA


Exports - commodities:

copra


Exports - partners:

Australia (2006)


Imports:

$NA


Imports - commodities:

foodstuffs


Imports - partners:

Australia (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$NA


Currency (code):

Australian dollar (AUD)


Currency code:

AUD


Exchange rates:

Australian dollars (AUD) per US dollar - 1.2137 (2007), 1.3285
(2006), 1.3095 (2005), 1.3598 (2004), 1.5419 (2003)


Communications
Cocos (Keeling) Islands



Telephones - main lines in use:

287 (1992)


Telephone system:

general assessment: connected within Australia's telecommunication
system; a local mobile-cellular network is in operation
domestic: NA
international: country code - 61; telephone, telex, and facsimile
communications with Australia and elsewhere via satellite; satellite
earth station - 1 (Intelsat) (2001)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 0 (2004)


Radios:

300 (1992)


Television broadcast stations:

4 (2007)


Televisions:

NA


Internet country code:

.cc


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

2 (2000)


Internet users:

NA


Transportation
Cocos (Keeling) Islands



Airports:

1 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 22 km
paved: 10 km
unpaved: 12 km (2006)


Ports and terminals:

Port Refuge


Military
Cocos (Keeling) Islands



Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of Australia; the territory has a
five-person police force


Transnational Issues
Cocos (Keeling) Islands



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Colombia

Introduction
Colombia



Background:

Colombia was one of the three countries that emerged from the
collapse of Gran Colombia in 1830 (the others are Ecuador and
Venezuela). A 40-year conflict between government forces and
anti-government insurgent groups and illegal paramilitary groups -
both heavily funded by the drug trade - escalated during the 1990s.
The insurgents lack the military or popular support necessary to
overthrow the government, and violence has been decreasing since
about 2002, but insurgents continue attacks against civilians and
large swaths of the countryside are under guerrilla influence. More
than 32,000 former paramilitaries had demobilized by the end of 2006
and the United Self Defense Forces of Colombia (AUC) as a formal
organization had ceased to function. Still, some renegades continued
to engage in criminal activities. The Colombian Government has
stepped up efforts to reassert government control throughout the
country, and now has a presence in every one of its administrative
departments. However, neighboring countries worry about the violence
spilling over their borders.


Geography
Colombia



Location:

Northern South America, bordering the Caribbean Sea, between Panama
and Venezuela, and bordering the North Pacific Ocean, between
Ecuador and Panama


Geographic coordinates:

4 00 N, 72 00 W


Map references:

South America


Area:

total: 1,138,910 sq km
land: 1,038,700 sq km
water: 100,210 sq km
note: includes Isla de Malpelo, Roncador Cay, and Serrana Bank


Area - comparative:

slightly less than twice the size of Texas


Land boundaries:

total: 6,309 km
border countries: Brazil 1,644 km, Ecuador 590 km, Panama 225 km,
Peru 1,800 km, Venezuela 2,050 km


Coastline:

3,208 km (Caribbean Sea 1,760 km, North Pacific Ocean 1,448 km)


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation


Climate:

tropical along coast and eastern plains; cooler in highlands


Terrain:

flat coastal lowlands, central highlands, high Andes Mountains,
eastern lowland plains


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: Pico Cristobal Colon 5,775 m
note: nearby Pico Simon Bolivar also has the same elevation


Natural resources:

petroleum, natural gas, coal, iron ore, nickel, gold, copper,
emeralds, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 2.01%
permanent crops: 1.37%
other: 96.62% (2005)


Irrigated land:

9,000 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

2,132 cu km (2000)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 10.71 cu km/yr (50%/4%/46%)
per capita: 235 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

highlands subject to volcanic eruptions; occasional earthquakes;
periodic droughts


Environment - current issues:

deforestation; soil and water quality damage from overuse of
pesticides; air pollution, especially in Bogota, from vehicle
emissions


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Hazardous Wastes, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection,
Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea


Geography - note:

only South American country with coastlines on both the North
Pacific Ocean and Caribbean Sea


People
Colombia



Population:

45,013,672 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 29.4% (male 6,688,530/female 6,531,768)
15-64 years: 65.1% (male 14,292,647/female 15,017,204)
65 years and over: 5.5% (male 1,072,644/female 1,410,881) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 26.8 years
male: 25.9 years
female: 27.8 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.405% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

19.86 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

5.54 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-0.28 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.95 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.76 male(s)/female
total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 19.51 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 23.18 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 15.7 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 72.54 years
male: 68.71 years
female: 76.5 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.49 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.7% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

190,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

3,600 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A
vectorborne diseases: dengue fever, malaria, and yellow fever
water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Colombian(s)
adjective: Colombian


Ethnic groups:

mestizo 58%, white 20%, mulatto 14%, black 4%, mixed
black-Amerindian 3%, Amerindian 1%


Religions:

Roman Catholic 90%, other 10%


Languages:

Spanish


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 92.8%
male: 92.9%
female: 92.7% (2004 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 12 years
male: 12 years
female: 13 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

4.7% of GDP (2006)


Government
Colombia



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Colombia
conventional short form: Colombia
local long form: Republica de Colombia
local short form: Colombia


Government type:

republic; executive branch dominates government structure


Capital:

name: Bogota
geographic coordinates: 4 36 N, 74 05 W
time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard
Time)


Administrative divisions:

32 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento) and 1
capital district* (distrito capital); Amazonas, Antioquia, Arauca,
Atlantico, Bogota*, Bolivar, Boyaca, Caldas, Caqueta, Casanare,
Cauca, Cesar, Choco, Cordoba, Cundinamarca, Guainia, Guaviare,
Huila, La Guajira, Magdalena, Meta, Narino, Norte de Santander,
Putumayo, Quindio, Risaralda, San Andres y Providencia, Santander,
Sucre, Tolima, Valle del Cauca, Vaupes, Vichada


Independence:

20 July 1810 (from Spain)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 20 July (1810)


Constitution:

5 July 1991; amended many times


Legal system:

based on Spanish law; a new criminal code modeled after US
procedures was enacted into law in 2004 and reached full
implemention in January 2008; judicial review of executive and
legislative acts; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Alvaro URIBE Velez (since 7 August 2002);
Vice President Francisco SANTOS (since 7 August 2002); note - the
president is both the chief of state and head of government
head of government: President Alvaro URIBE Velez (since 7 August
2002); Vice President Francisco SANTOS (since 7 August 2002)
cabinet: Cabinet consists of a coalition of the three largest
parties that supported President URIBE's reelection - the PSUN, PC,
and CR - and independents
elections: president and vice president elected by popular vote for
a four-year term (eligible for a second term); election last held 28
May 2006 (next to be held in May 2010)
election results: President Alvaro URIBE Velez reelected president;
percent of vote - Alvaro URIBE Velez 62%, Carlos GAVIRIA Diaz 22%,
Horacio SERPA Uribe 12%, other 4%


Legislative branch:

bicameral Congress or Congreso consists of the Senate or Senado (102
seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
and the House of Representatives or Camara de Representantes (166
seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
elections: Senate - last held 12 March 2006 (next to be held in
March 2010); House of Representatives - last held 12 March 2006
(next to be held in March 2010)
election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - PSUN 20, PC 18, PL 18, CR 15, PDI 10, other parties 21;
House of Representatives - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - PL 35, PSUN 33, PC 29, CR 20, PDA 8, other parties 41


Judicial branch:

four roughly coequal, supreme judicial organs; Supreme Court of
Justice or Corte Suprema de Justicia (highest court of criminal law;
judges are selected by their peers from the nominees of the Superior
Judicial Council for eight-year terms); Council of State (highest
court of administrative law; judges are selected from the nominees
of the Superior Judicial Council for eight-year terms);
Constitutional Court (guards integrity and supremacy of the
constitution; rules on constitutionality of laws, amendments to the
constitution, and international treaties); Superior Judicial Council
(administers and disciplines the civilian judiciary; resolves
jurisdictional conflicts arising between other courts; members are
elected by three sister courts and Congress for eight-year terms)


Political parties and leaders:

Colombian Conservative Party or PC [Efrain Jose CEPEDA Sarabia];
Alternative Democratic Pole or PDA [Carlos GAVIRIA Diaz]; Liberal
Party or PL [Cesar GAVIRIA Trujillo]; Radical Change or CR [German
VARGAS Lleras]; Social National Unity Party or U Party [Carlos
GARCIA Orjuela]
note: Colombia has 15 formally recognized political parties, and
numerous unofficial parties that did not meet the vote threshold in
the March 2006 legislative elections required for recognition


Political pressure groups and leaders:

National Liberation Army or ELN; Revolutionary Armed Forces of
Colombia or FARC
note: two largest insurgent groups active in Colombia


International organization participation:

BCIE, CAN, Caricom (observer), CDB, FAO, G-3, G-24, G-77, IADB,
IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO,
IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES,
LAIA, Mercosur (associate), MIGA, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG,
UN, UNASUR, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNWTO, UPU,
WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Carolina BARCO Isakson
chancery: 2118 Leroy Place NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 387-8338
FAX: [1] (202) 232-8643
consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los
Angeles, Miami, New York, San Francisco, San Juan (Puerto Rico),
Washington, DC


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador William R. BROWNFIELD
embassy: Calle 24 Bis No. 48-50, Bogota, D.C.
mailing address: Carrera 45 No. 24B-27, Bogota, D.C.
telephone: [57] (1) 315-0811
FAX: [57] (1) 315-2197


Flag description:

three horizontal bands of yellow (top, double-width), blue, and red
note: similar to the flag of Ecuador, which is longer and bears the
Ecuadorian coat of arms superimposed in the center


Economy
Colombia



Economy - overview:

Colombia's economy has experienced positive growth over the past
five years despite a serious armed conflict. In fact, 2007 is
regarded by policy makers and the private sector as one of the best
economic years in recent history, after 2005. The economy continues
to improve in part because of austere government budgets, focused
efforts to reduce public debt levels, an export-oriented growth
strategy, improved domestic security, and high commodity prices.
Ongoing economic problems facing President URIBE include reforming
the pension system, reducing high unemployment, and funding new
exploration to offset declining oil production. The government's
economic reforms and democratic security strategy, coupled with
increased investment, have engendered a growing sense of confidence
in the economy. However, the business sector continues to be
concerned about failure of the US Congress to approve the signed FTA.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$327.7 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$171.6 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

8.2% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$7,400 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 11.5%
industry: 36%
services: 52.5% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

20.5 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 22.7%
industry: 18.7%
services: 58.5% (2000 est.)


Unemployment rate:

11.2% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

49.2% (2005)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 7.9%
highest 10%: 34.3% (2004)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

53.8 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

22.5% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $63.69 billion
expenditures: $64.96 billion; including capital expenditures of $NA
(2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

52.8% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

5.5% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

11.5% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

15.38% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$21.81 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$27.25 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$85.34 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

coffee, cut flowers, bananas, rice, tobacco, corn, sugarcane, cocoa
beans, oilseed, vegetables; forest products; shrimp


Industries:

textiles, food processing, oil, clothing and footwear, beverages,
chemicals, cement; gold, coal, emeralds


Industrial production growth rate:

9.8% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

51.83 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

39.58 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

876.7 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

39.4 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 26%
hydro: 72.7%
nuclear: 0%
other: 1.3% (2001)


Oil - production:

550,000 bbl/day (2008 est.)


Oil - consumption:

265,400 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

276,100 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

12,480 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

1.506 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

7.22 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

7.22 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

122.9 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$5.862 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$30.58 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

petroleum, coffee, coal, nickel, emeralds, apparel, bananas, cut
flowers


Exports - partners:

US 35.4%, Venezuela 17.4%, Ecuador 4.3% (2007)


Imports:

$31.17 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

industrial equipment, transportation equipment, consumer goods,
chemicals, paper products, fuels, electricity


Imports - partners:

US 26.2%, China 10.1%, Mexico 9.3%, Brazil 7.3%, Venezuela 4.2%
(2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$511.1 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$20.95 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$41.39 billion (30 June 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$56.19 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$10.38 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$56.2 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

Colombian peso (COP)


Currency code:

COP


Exchange rates:

Colombian pesos (COP) per US dollar - 2,013.8 (2007), 2,358.6
(2006), 2,320.75 (2005), 2,628.61 (2004), 2,877.65 (2003)


Communications
Colombia



Telephones - main lines in use:

7.936 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

33.941 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: modern system in many respects;
telecommunications sector liberalized during the 1990s; multiple
providers of both fixed-line and mobile-cellular services;
fixed-line connections stand at about 18 per 100 persons; mobile
cellular usage is about 75 per 100 persons; competition among
cellular service providers is resulting in falling local and
international calling rates and contributing to the steep decline in
the market share of fixed line services
domestic: nationwide microwave radio relay system; domestic
satellite system with 41 earth stations; fiber-optic network linking
50 cities
international: country code - 57; submarine cables provide links to
the US, parts of the Caribbean, and Central and South America;
satellite earth stations - 10 (6 Intelsat, 1 Inmarsat, 3 fully
digitalized international switching centers) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 454, FM 34, shortwave 27 (1999)


Radios:

21 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

60 (1997)


Televisions:

4.59 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.co


Internet hosts:

1.554 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

18 (2000)


Internet users:

12.1 million (2007)


Transportation
Colombia



Airports:

934 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 103
over 3,047 m: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 8
1,524 to 2,437 m: 39
914 to 1,523 m: 42
under 914 m: 12 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 831
over 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 34
914 to 1,523 m: 216
under 914 m: 580 (2007)


Heliports:

2 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 4,329 km; oil 6,140 km; refined products 3,145 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 3,304 km
standard gauge: 150 km 1.435-m gauge
narrow gauge: 3,154 km 0.914-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 164,257 km (2005)


Waterways:

18,000 km (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 17
by type: cargo 13, petroleum tanker 3, specialized tanker 1
registered in other countries: 6 (Antigua and Barbuda 2, Panama 4)
(2008)


Ports and terminals:

Barranquilla, Buenaventura, Cartagena, Santa Marta, Turbo


Military
Colombia



Military branches:

National Army (Ejercito Nacional), National Navy (Armada Nacional,
includes Naval Aviation, Naval Infantry (Infanteria de Marina,
Colmar), and Coast Guard), Colombian Air Force (Fuerza Aerea de
Colombia, FAC) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18-24 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military service;
service obligation - 18 months (2004)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 11,478,109
females age 16-49: 11,809,279 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 8,056,336
females age 16-49: 9,919,952 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 442,403
female: 433,192 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

3.4% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Colombia



Disputes - international:

in December 2007, ICJ allocates San Andres, Providencia, and Santa
Catalina islands to Colombia under 1928 Treaty but does not rule on
82°W meridian as maritime boundary with Nicaragua; managed dispute
with Venezuela over maritime boundary and Venezuelan-administered
Los Monjes Islands near the Gulf of Venezuela; Colombian-organized
illegal narcotics, guerrilla, and paramilitary activities penetrate
all neighboring borders and have caused Colombian citizens to flee
mostly into neighboring countries; Colombia, Honduras, Nicaragua,
Jamaica, and the US assert various claims to Bajo Nuevo and
Serranilla Bank


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

IDPs: 1.8-3.5 million (conflict between government and illegal armed
groups and drug traffickers) (2007)


Illicit drugs:

illicit producer of coca, opium poppy, and cannabis; world's leading
coca cultivator with 167,000 hectares in coca cultivation in 2007, a
6% increase over 2006, producing a potential of 535 metric tons of
pure cocaine; the world's largest producer of coca derivatives;
supplies cocaine to most of the US market and the great majority of
other international drug markets; in 2007, aerial eradication
dispensed herbicide to treat over 153,000 hectares with another
67,000 hectares manually eradicated, but aggressive replanting on
the part of coca growers means Colombia remains a key producer; a
significant portion of non-US narcotics proceeds are either
laundered or invested in Colombia through the black market peso
exchange; important supplier of heroin to the US market; opium poppy
cultivation is estimated to have fallen 25% between 2006 and 2007
with a corresponding estimated 27% decline in the yield of pure
heroin to 1.9 metric tons; (2007)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Comoros

Introduction
Comoros



Background:

Comoros has endured more than 20 coups or attempted coups since
gaining independence from France in 1975. In 1997, the islands of
Anjouan and Moheli declared independence from Comoros. In 1999,
military chief Col. AZALI seized power in a bloodless coup, and
helped negotiate the 2000 Fomboni Accords power-sharing agreement in
which the federal presidency rotates among the three islands, and
each island maintains its own local government. AZALI won the 2002
Presidential election, and each island in the archipelago elected
its own president. AZALI stepped down in 2006 and President SAMBI
took office. Since 2006, Anjouan's President Mohamed BACAR has
refused to work effectively with the Union presidency. In 2007,
BACAR effected Anjouan's de-facto secession from the Union, refusing
to step down in favor of fresh Anjouanais elections when Comoros'
other islands held legitimate elections in July. The African Union
(AU) initially attempted to resolve the political crisis by applying
sanctions and a naval blockade on Anjouan, but in March 2008, AU and
Comoran soldiers seized the island. The move was generally welcomed
by the island's inhabitants.


Geography
Comoros



Location:

Southern Africa, group of islands at the northern mouth of the
Mozambique Channel, about two-thirds of the way between northern
Madagascar and northern Mozambique


Geographic coordinates:

12 10 S, 44 15 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 2,170 sq km
land: 2,170 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly more than 12 times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

340 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical marine; rainy season (November to May)


Terrain:

volcanic islands, interiors vary from steep mountains to low hills


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
highest point: Le Karthala 2,360 m


Natural resources:

NEGL


Land use:

arable land: 35.87%
permanent crops: 23.32%
other: 40.81% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Total renewable water resources:

1.2 cu km (2003)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.01 cu km/yr (48%/5%/47%)
per capita: 13 cu m/yr (1999)


Natural hazards:

cyclones possible during rainy season (December to April); Le
Kartala on Grand Comore is an active volcano


Environment - current issues:

soil degradation and erosion results from crop cultivation on slopes
without proper terracing; deforestation


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

important location at northern end of Mozambique Channel


People
Comoros



Population:

731,775 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 42.4% (male 155,662/female 154,520)
15-64 years: 54.6% (male 197,178/female 202,231)
65 years and over: 3% (male 10,203/female 11,981) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 18.7 years
male: 18.5 years
female: 19 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.803% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

35.78 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

7.76 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.85 male(s)/female
total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 68.58 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 76.65 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 60.28 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 63.1 years
male: 60.72 years
female: 65.55 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

4.9 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.12% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Comoran(s)
adjective: Comoran


Ethnic groups:

Antalote, Cafre, Makoa, Oimatsaha, Sakalava


Religions:

Sunni Muslim 98%, Roman Catholic 2%


Languages:

Arabic (official), French (official), Shikomoro (a blend of Swahili
and Arabic)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 56.5%
male: 63.6%
female: 49.3% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 8 years
male: 9 years
female: 7 years (2004)


Education expenditures:

3.8% of GDP (2002)


Government
Comoros



Country name:

conventional long form: Union of the Comoros
conventional short form: Comoros
local long form: Union des Comores
local short form: Comores


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Moroni
geographic coordinates: 11 42 S, 43 14 E
time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

3 islands and 4 municipalities*; Grande Comore, Anjouan, Domoni*,
Fomboni*, Moheli, Moroni*, Mutsamudu*


Independence:

6 July 1975 (from France)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 6 July (1975)


Constitution:

23 December 2001


Legal system:

French and Islamic law in a new consolidated code; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Ahmed Abdallah SAMBI (since 26 May 2006)
head of government: President Ahmed Abdallah SAMBI (since 26 May
2006)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
elections: as defined by the 2001 constitution, the presidency
rotates every four years among the elected presidents from the three
main islands in the Union; election last held 14 May 2006 (next to
be held by May 2010); prime minister appointed by the president;
note - the post of prime minister has been vacant since May 2002
election results: Ahmed Abdallah SAMBI elected president; percent of
vote - Ahmed Abdallah SAMBI 58.0%, Ibrahim HALIDI 28.3%, Mohamed
DJAANFAMI 13.7%


Legislative branch:

unicameral Assembly of the Union (33 seats; 15 deputies are selected
by the individual islands' local assemblies and 18 by universal
suffrage; to serve for five years);
elections: last held 18 and 25 April 2004 (next to be held in 2009)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
CdIA 12, CRC 6; note - 15 additional seats are filled by deputies
from local island assemblies


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court or Cour Supremes (two members appointed by the
president, two members elected by the Federal Assembly, one elected
by the Council of each island, and others are former presidents of
the republic)


Political parties and leaders:

Convention for the Renewal of the Comoros or CRC [AZALI Assowmani];
Camp of the Autonomous Islands or CdIA (a coalition of parties
organized by the islands' presidents in opposition to the Union
President); Front National pour la Justice or FNJ [Ahmed RACHID]
(Islamic party in opposition); Mouvement pour la Democratie et le
Progress or MDP-NGDC [Abbas DJOUSSOUF]; Parti Comorien pour la
Democratie et le Progress or PCDP [Ali MROUDJAE]; Rassemblement
National pour le Development or RND [Omar TAMOU, Abdoulhamid
AFFRAITANE]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

other: environmentalists


International organization participation:

ACCT, ACP, AfDB, AMF, AU, COMESA, FAO, FZ, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt,
ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, InOC,
Interpol, IOC, IPU, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAS, NAM, OIC, OIF, OPCW, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Representative to the US and Ambassador to the UN
Mohamed TOIHIRI
chancery: Mission to the US, 866 United Nations Plaza, Suite 418,
New York, NY 10017
telephone: [1] (212) 750-1637


Diplomatic representation from the US:

the US does not have an embassy in Comoros; the ambassador to
Madagascar is accredited to Comoros


Flag description:

four equal horizontal bands of yellow (top), white, red, and blue
with a green isosceles triangle based on the hoist; centered within
the triangle is a white crescent with the convex side facing the
hoist and four white, five-pointed stars placed vertically in a line
between the points of the crescent; the horizontal bands and the
four stars represent the four main islands of the archipelago -
Mwali, Njazidja, Nzwani, and Mahore (Mayotte - territorial
collectivity of France, but claimed by Comoros)
note: the crescent, stars, and color green are traditional symbols
of Islam


Economy
Comoros



Economy - overview:

One of the world's poorest countries, Comoros is made up of three
islands that have inadequate transportation links, a young and
rapidly increasing population, and few natural resources. The low
educational level of the labor force contributes to a subsistence
level of economic activity, high unemployment, and a heavy
dependence on foreign grants and technical assistance. Agriculture,
including fishing, hunting, and forestry, contributes 40% to GDP,
employs 80% of the labor force, and provides most of the exports.
The country is not self-sufficient in food production; rice, the
main staple, accounts for the bulk of imports. The government -
which is hampered by internal political disputes - is struggling to
upgrade education and technical training, privatize commercial and
industrial enterprises, improve health services, diversify exports,
promote tourism, and reduce the high population growth rate. The
political problems caused the economy to contract in 2007.
Remittances from 150,000 Comorans abroad help supplement GDP.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$1.262 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$442 million (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

-1% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$1,100 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 40%
industry: 4%
services: 56% (2001 est.)


Labor force:

144,500 (1996 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 80%
industry and services: 20% (1996 est.)


Unemployment rate:

20% (1996 est.)


Population below poverty line:

60% (2002 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $27.6 million
expenditures: $NA (2001 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

3% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

5.36% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

10.5% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$76.68 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$23.39 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$45.09 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

vanilla, cloves, ylang-ylang, perfume essences, copra, coconuts,
bananas, cassava (tapioca)


Industries:

fishing, tourism, perfume distillation


Industrial production growth rate:

-2% (1999 est.)


Electricity - production:

20 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

18.6 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 90.6%
hydro: 9.4%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

712.3 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

755.4 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

$8 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$32 million f.o.b. (2006)


Exports - commodities:

vanilla, ylang-ylang (perfume essence), cloves, copra


Exports - partners:

Turkey 38%, France 27.5%, Singapore 9.2%, Saudi Arabia 4.1% (2007)


Imports:

$143 million f.o.b. (2006)


Imports - commodities:

rice and other foodstuffs, consumer goods, petroleum products,
cement, transport equipment


Imports - partners:

France 18.2%, UAE 10.8%, South Africa 8.5%, Pakistan 7.2%, Kenya
5.7%, China 5.4%, India 5% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$25.23 million (2005 est.)


Debt - external:

$232 million (2000 est.)


Currency (code):

Comoran franc (KMF)


Currency code:

KMF


Exchange rates:

Comoran francs (KMF) per US dollar - 361.4 (2007), 391.8 (2006),
395.6 (2005), 396.21 (2004), 435.9 (2003)
note: the Comoran franc is pegged to the euro at a rate of 491.9677
Comoran francs per euro


Communications
Comoros



Telephones - main lines in use:

19,100 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

40,000 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: sparse system of microwave radio relay and HF
radiotelephone communication stations; fixed-line connections only
about 3 per 100 persons; mobile cellular usage about 5 per 100
persons
domestic: HF radiotelephone communications and microwave radio relay
international: country code - 269; HF radiotelephone communications
to Madagascar and Reunion


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 4, shortwave 1 (2001)


Radios:

90,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

NA


Televisions:

1,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.km


Internet hosts:

8 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

21,000 (2006)


Transportation
Comoros



Airports:

4 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 4
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 3 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 880 km
paved: 673 km
unpaved: 207 km (2002)


Merchant marine:

total: 136
by type: bulk carrier 15, cargo 87, carrier 2, chemical tanker 5,
container 2, passenger 1, passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 9,
refrigerated cargo 5, roll on/roll off 8, specialized tanker 1
foreign-owned: 68 (Bangladesh 2, Bulgaria 2, Cyprus 1, Greece 6,
India 2, Kenya 1, Kuwait 1, Lebanon 4, Norway 1, Pakistan 4,
Philippines 1, Russia 12, Saudi Arabia 1, Singapore 1, Syria 4,
Turkey 8, Ukraine 8, UAE 7, US 2) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Mayotte, Mutsamudu


Military
Comoros



Military branches:

National Development Army (AND): Comoran Security Force; Comoran
Federal Police (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 167,850
females age 16-49: 167,362 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 121,550
females age 16-49: 131,015 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 7,901
female: 7,894 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

2.8% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Comoros



Disputes - international:

claims French-administered Mayotte and challenges France's and
Madagascar's claims to Banc du Geyser, a drying reef in the
Mozambique Channel; in May 2008, African Union forces are called in
to assist the Comoros military recapture Anjouan Island from rebels
who seized it in 2001



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Congo, Democratic Republic of the

Introduction
Congo, Democratic Republic of the



Background:

Established as a Belgian colony in 1908, the Republic of the Congo
gained its independence in 1960, but its early years were marred by
political and social instability. Col. Joseph MOBUTU seized power
and declared himself president in a November 1965 coup. He
subsequently changed his name - to MOBUTU Sese Seko - as well as
that of the country - to Zaire. MOBUTU retained his position for 32
years through several sham elections, as well as through the use of
brutal force. Ethnic strife and civil war, touched off by a massive
inflow of refugees in 1994 from fighting in Rwanda and Burundi, led
in May 1997 to the toppling of the MOBUTU regime by a rebellion
backed by Rwanda and Uganda and fronted by Laurent KABILA. He
renamed the country the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), but
in August 1998 his regime was itself challenged by a second
insurrection again backed by Rwanda and Uganda. Troops from Angola,
Chad, Namibia, Sudan, and Zimbabwe intervened to support KABILA's
regime. A cease-fire was signed in July 1999 by the DRC, Congolese
armed rebel groups, Angola, Namibia, Rwanda, Uganda, and Zimbabwe
but sporadic fighting continued. Laurent KABILA was assassinated in
January 2001 and his son, Joseph KABILA, was named head of state. In
October 2002, the new president was successful in negotiating the
withdrawal of Rwandan forces occupying eastern Congo; two months
later, the Pretoria Accord was signed by all remaining warring
parties to end the fighting and establish a government of national
unity. A transitional government was set up in July 2003. Joseph
KABILA as president and four vice presidents represented the former
government, former rebel groups, the political opposition, and civil
society. The transitional government held a successful
constitutional referendum in December 2005 and elections for the
presidency, National Assembly, and provincial legislatures in 2006.
KABILA was inaugurated president in December 2006. The National
Assembly was installed in September 2006. Its president, Vital
KAMERHE, was chosen in December. Provincial assemblies were
constituted in early 2007, and elected governors and national
senators in January 2007.


Geography
Congo, Democratic Republic of the



Location:

Central Africa, northeast of Angola


Geographic coordinates:

0 00 N, 25 00 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 2,345,410 sq km
land: 2,267,600 sq km
water: 77,810 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly less than one-fourth the size of the US


Land boundaries:

total: 10,730 km
border countries: Angola 2,511 km (of which 225 km is the boundary
of Angola's discontiguous Cabinda Province), Burundi 233 km, Central
African Republic 1,577 km, Republic of the Congo 2,410 km, Rwanda
217 km, Sudan 628 km, Tanzania 459 km, Uganda 765 km, Zambia 1,930 km


Coastline:

37 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: boundaries with neighbors


Climate:

tropical; hot and humid in equatorial river basin; cooler and drier
in southern highlands; cooler and wetter in eastern highlands; north
of Equator - wet season (April to October), dry season (December to
February); south of Equator - wet season (November to March), dry
season (April to October)


Terrain:

vast central basin is a low-lying plateau; mountains in east


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Pic Marguerite on Mont Ngaliema (Mount Stanley) 5,110
m


Natural resources:

cobalt, copper, niobium, tantalum, petroleum, industrial and gem
diamonds, gold, silver, zinc, manganese, tin, uranium, coal,
hydropower, timber


Land use:

arable land: 2.86%
permanent crops: 0.47%
other: 96.67% (2005)


Irrigated land:

110 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

1,283 cu km (2001)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.36 cu km/yr (53%/17%/31%)
per capita: 6 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

periodic droughts in south; Congo River floods (seasonal); in the
east, in the Great Rift Valley, there are active volcanoes


Environment - current issues:

poaching threatens wildlife populations; water pollution;
deforestation; refugees responsible for significant deforestation,
soil erosion, and wildlife poaching; mining of minerals (coltan - a
mineral used in creating capacitors, diamonds, and gold) causing
environmental damage


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Tropical Timber
83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification


Geography - note:

straddles equator; has narrow strip of land that controls the lower
Congo River and is only outlet to South Atlantic Ocean; dense
tropical rain forest in central river basin and eastern highlands


People
Congo, Democratic Republic of the



Population:

66,514,504
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 47.1% (male 15,711,817/female 15,594,449)
15-64 years: 50.4% (male 16,672,399/female 16,875,468)
65 years and over: 2.5% (male 674,766/female 985,607) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 16.3 years
male: 16.1 years
female: 16.5 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

3.236% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

43 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

11.88 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

1.24 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.68 male(s)/female
total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 83.11 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 91.14 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 74.83 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 53.98 years
male: 52.22 years
female: 55.8 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

6.28 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

4.2% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

1.1 million (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

100,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: malaria, plague, and African trypanosomiasis
(sleeping sickness)
water contact disease: schistosomiasis
animal contact disease: rabies (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Congolese (singular and plural)
adjective: Congolese or Congo


Ethnic groups:

over 200 African ethnic groups of which the majority are Bantu; the
four largest tribes - Mongo, Luba, Kongo (all Bantu), and the
Mangbetu-Azande (Hamitic) make up about 45% of the population


Religions:

Roman Catholic 50%, Protestant 20%, Kimbanguist 10%, Muslim 10%,
other (includes syncretic sects and indigenous beliefs) 10%


Languages:

French (official), Lingala (a lingua franca trade language),
Kingwana (a dialect of Kiswahili or Swahili), Kikongo, Tshiluba


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write French, Lingala,
Kingwana, or Tshiluba
total population: 67.2%
male: 80.9%
female: 54.1% (2001 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 9 years
male: 10 years
female: 8 years (2003)


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Congo, Democratic Republic of the



Country name:

conventional long form: Democratic Republic of the Congo
conventional short form: none
local long form: Republique Democratique du Congo
local short form: none
former: Congo Free State, Belgian Congo, Congo/Leopoldville,
Congo/Kinshasa, Zaire
abbreviation: DRC


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Kinshasa
geographic coordinates: 4 19 S, 15 18 E
time difference: UTC+1 (six hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

10 provinces (provinces, singular - province) and 1 city* (ville);
Bandundu, Bas-Congo, Equateur, Kasai-Occidental, Kasai-Oriental,
Katanga, Kinshasa*, Maniema, Nord-Kivu, Orientale, Sud-Kivu
note: according to the Constitution adopted in December 2005, the
current administrative divisions will be subdivided into 26 new
provinces by 2009


Independence:

30 June 1960 (from Belgium)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 30 June (1960)


Constitution:

18 February 2006


Legal system:

a new constitution was adopted by referendum 18 December 2005;
accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal and compulsory


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Joseph KABILA (since 17 January 2001);
note - following the assassination of his father, Joseph KABILA
succeeded to the presidency which he retained through the 2003-06
transition; he was subsequently elected president in October 2006
head of government: Prime Minister Adolphe MUZITO (since 10 October
2008)
cabinet: Ministers of State appointed by the president
elections: under the new constitution the president is elected by
popular vote for a five-year term (eligible for a second term);
elections last held 30 July 2006 and 29 October 2006 (next to be
held in 2011); prime minister appointed by the president
election results: Joseph KABILA elected president; percent of vote
(second round) - Joseph KABILA 58%, Jean-Pierre BEMBA Gombo 42%
note: Joseph KABILA succeeded his father, Laurent Desire KABILA,
following the latter's assassination in January 2001; negotiations
with rebel leaders led to the establishment of a transitional
government in July 2003 with free elections held on 30 July 2006 and
29 October 2006 confirming Joseph KABILA as president


Legislative branch:

bicameral legislature consists of a National Assembly (500 seats; 61
members elected by majority vote in single-member constituencies,
439 members elected by open list proportional-representation in
multi-member constituencies; to serve five-year terms) and a Senate
(108 seats; members elected by provincial assemblies to serve
five-year terms)
elections: National Assembly - last held 30 July 2006 (next to be
held in 2011); Senate - last held 19 January 2007 (next to be held
by 2012)
election results: National Assembly - percent of vote by party - NA;
seats by party - PPRD 111, MLC 64, PALU 34, MSR 27, FR 26, RCD 15,
independents 63, others 160 (includes 63 political parties that won
10 or fewer seats); Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - PPRD 22, MLC 14, FR 7, RCD 7, PDC 6, CDC 3, MSR 3, PALU 2,
independents 26, others 18 (political parties that won a single seat)


Judicial branch:

Constitutional Court; Appeals Court or Cour de Cassation; Council of
State; High Military Court; plus civil and military courts and
tribunals


Political parties and leaders:

Christian Democrat Party or PDC [Jose ENDUNDO]; Congolese Rally for
Democracy or RCD [Azarias RUBERWA]; Convention of Christian
Democrats or CDC; Forces of Renewal or FR [Mbusa NYAMWISI]; Movement
for the Liberation of the Congo or MLC [Jean-Pierre BEMBA]; People's
Party for Reconstruction and Democracy or PPRD [Joseph KABILA];
Social Movement for Renewal or MSR [Pierre LUMBI]; Unified Lumumbist
Party or PALU [Antoine GIZENGA]; Union for Democracy and Social
Progress or UDPS [Etienne TSHISEKEDI]; Union of Mobutuist Democrats
or UDEMO [MOBUTU Nzanga]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

MONUC - UN organization working with the government; FARDC (Forces
Armees de la Republique du Congo) - Army of the Democratic Republic
of the Congo which commits atrocities on citizens; FDLA (Forces
Democratiques de Liberation du Rwanda) - Rwandan militia group


International organization participation:

ACCT, ACP, AfDB, AU, CEPGL, COMESA, FAO, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO (suspended), ILO, IMF,
IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OIF,
OPCW, PCA, SADC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCL,
WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Faida MITIFU
chancery: 1800 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009: note -
Consular Office at 1726 M Street, NW, Washington, DC, 20036
telephone: [1] (202) 234-7690, 7691
FAX: [1] (202) 234-2609


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador William GARVELINK
embassy: 310 Avenue des Aviateurs, Kinshasa
mailing address: Unit 31550, APO AE 09828
telephone: [243] (81) 225-5872
FAX: [243] (81) 301-0561


Flag description:

sky blue field divided diagonally from the lower hoist corner to
upper fly corner by a red stripe bordered by two narrow yellow
stripes; a yellow, five-pointed star appears in the upper hoist
corner


Economy
Congo, Democratic Republic of the



Economy - overview:

The economy of the Democratic Republic of the Congo - a nation
endowed with vast potential wealth - is slowly recovering from two
decades of decline. Conflict, which began in August 1998,
dramatically reduced national output and government revenue,
increased external debt, and resulted in the deaths of more than 3.5
million people from violence, famine, and disease. Foreign
businesses curtailed operations due to uncertainty about the outcome
of the conflict, lack of infrastructure, and the difficult operating
environment. Conditions began to improve in late 2002 with the
withdrawal of a large portion of the invading foreign troops. The
transitional government reopened relations with international
financial institutions and international donors, and President
KABILA has begun implementing reforms, although progress is slow and
the International Monetary Fund curtailed their program for the DRC
at the end of March 2006 because of fiscal overruns. Much economic
activity still occurs in the informal sector, and is not reflected
in GDP data. Renewed activity in the mining sector, the source of
most export income, boosted Kinshasa's fiscal position and GDP
growth. Government reforms and improved security may lead to
increased government revenues, outside budget assistance, and
foreign direct investment, although an uncertain legal framework,
corruption, and a lack of transparency in government policy are
continuing long-term problems.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$19.03 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$10.14 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

7% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$300 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 55%
industry: 11%
services: 34% (2000 est.)


Labor force:

15 million (2006 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: NA%
industry: NA%
services: NA%


Unemployment rate:

NA%


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $700 million
expenditures: $2 billion (2006 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

16.7% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

5.25% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

NA


Stock of money:

$597 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$677.9 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$559.5 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

coffee, sugar, palm oil, rubber, tea, quinine, cassava (tapioca),
palm oil, bananas, root crops, corn, fruits; wood products


Industries:

mining (diamonds, gold, copper, cobalt, coltan zinc), mineral
processing, consumer products (including textiles, footwear,
cigarettes, processed foods and beverages), cement, commercial ship
repair


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

7.243 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

5.158 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

1.799 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - imports:

6 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 1.8%
hydro: 98.2%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

22,160 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

10,460 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

19,820 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

8,220 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - proved reserves:

180 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

991.1 million cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$402 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$1.587 billion f.o.b. (2006)


Exports - commodities:

diamonds, copper, crude oil, coffee, cobalt


Exports - partners:

Belgium 23.6%, China 21.7%, US 9.8%, Finland 9.1%, Brazil 9.1%,
France 6.8%, Zambia 6% (2007)


Imports:

$2.263 billion f.o.b. (2006)


Imports - commodities:

foodstuffs, mining and other machinery, transport equipment, fuels


Imports - partners:

South Africa 22.5%, Belgium 10.3%, Zambia 8.9%, Zimbabwe 7.5%,
France 6.8%, Kenya 6.3%, US 4.1%, Cote d'Ivoire 4.1% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$1.828 billion (2005)


Debt - external:

$10 billion (2006 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Congolese franc (CDF)


Currency code:

CDF


Exchange rates:

Congolese francs (CDF) per US dollar - NA (2007), 464.69 (2006),
437.86 (2005), 401.04 (2004), 405.34 (2003)


Communications
Congo, Democratic Republic of the



Telephones - main lines in use:

9,700 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

6.592 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: inadequate; state-owned fixed-line operator has
been unable to expand fixed-line connections and there are now fewer
than 10,000 connections - less than 1 per 1000 persons; given the
backdrop of a wholly inadequate fixed-line infrastructure, the use
of cellular services has surged and subscribership in 2007 reached
6.6 million - 10 per 100 persons
domestic: barely adequate wire and microwave radio relay service in
and between urban areas; domestic satellite system with 14 earth
stations
international: country code - 243; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 3, FM 11, shortwave 2 (2001)


Radios:

18.03 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

4 (2001)


Televisions:

6.478 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.cd


Internet hosts:

3,211 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2001)


Internet users:

230,400 (2007)


Transportation
Congo, Democratic Republic of the



Airports:

237 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 26
over 3,047 m: 4
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 17
914 to 1,523 m: 2
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 211
1,524 to 2,437 m: 17
914 to 1,523 m: 95
under 914 m: 99 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 62 km; oil 71 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 5,138 km
narrow gauge: 3,987 km 1.067-m gauge (858 km electrified); 125 km
1.000-m gauge; 1,026 km 0.600-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 153,497 km
paved: 2,794 km
unpaved: 150,703 km (2004)


Waterways:

15,000 km (2005)


Merchant marine:

total: 1
by type: petroleum tanker 1
foreign-owned: 1 (Congo, Republic of the 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Banana, Boma, Bukavu, Bumba, Goma, Kalemie, Kindu, Kinshasa,
Kisangani, Matadi, Mbandaka


Military
Congo, Democratic Republic of the



Military branches:

Armed Forces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (Forces
d'Armees de la Republique Democratique du Congo, FARDC): Army,
National Navy (La Marine Nationale), Congolese Air Force (Force
Aerienne Congolaise, FAC) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18-45 years of age for military service


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 14,101,263 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 8,562,989 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 783,762
female: 780,922 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

2.5% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Congo, Democratic Republic of the



Disputes - international:

heads of the Great Lakes states and UN pledged in 2004 to abate
tribal, rebel, and militia fighting in the region, including
northeast Congo, where the UN Organization Mission in the Democratic
Republic of the Congo (MONUC), organized in 1999, maintains over
16,500 uniformed peacekeepers; members of Uganda's Lords Resistance
Army forces continue to seek refuge in Congo's Garamba National Park
as peace talks with the Uganda government evolve; the location of
the boundary in the broad Congo River with the Republic of the Congo
is indefinite except in the Pool Malebo/Stanley Pool area; Uganda
and DROC dispute Rukwanzi island in Lake Albert and other areas on
the Semliki River with hydrocarbon potential; boundary commission
continues discussions over Congolese-administered triangle of land
on the right bank of the Lunkinda river claimed by Zambia near the
DROC village of Pweto


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 132,295 (Angola); 37,313 (Rwanda);
17,777 (Burundi); 13,904 (Uganda); 6,181 (Sudan); 5,243 (Republic of
Congo)
IDPs: 1.4 million (fighting between government forces and rebels
since mid-1990s; most IDPs are in eastern provinces) (2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Democratic Republic of the Congo is a source and
destination country for men, women, and children trafficked for the
purposes of forced labor and sexual exploitation; much of this
trafficking occurs within the country's unstable eastern provinces
and is perpetrated by armed groups outside government control
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Democratic Republic of the Congo is
on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to provide evidence of
increasing efforts to combat trafficking in persons in 2007; while
some significant initial advances were noted, the government's
capacity to apprehend, convict, or imprison traffickers remained
weak; the government lacks sufficient financial, technical, and
human resources to effectively address not only trafficking crimes,
but also to provide basic levels of security in some parts of the
country (2008)


Illicit drugs:

one of Africa's biggest producers of cannabis, but mostly for
domestic consumption; while rampant corruption and inadequate
supervision leaves the banking system vulnerable to money
laundering, the lack of a well-developed financial system limits the
country's utility as a money-laundering center



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Congo, Republic of the

Introduction
Congo, Republic of the



Background:

Upon independence in 1960, the former French region of Middle Congo
became the Republic of the Congo. A quarter century of
experimentation with Marxism was abandoned in 1990 and a
democratically elected government took office in 1992. A brief civil
war in 1997 restored former Marxist President Denis SASSOU-NGUESSO,
and ushered in a period of ethnic and political unrest.
Southern-based rebel groups agreed to a final peace accord in March
2003, but the calm is tenuous and refugees continue to present a
humanitarian crisis. The Republic of Congo was once one of Africa's
largest petroleum producers, but with declining production it will
need new offshore oil finds to sustain its oil earnings over the
long term.


Geography
Congo, Republic of the



Location:

Western Africa, bordering the South Atlantic Ocean, between Angola
and Gabon


Geographic coordinates:

1 00 S, 15 00 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 342,000 sq km
land: 341,500 sq km
water: 500 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Montana


Land boundaries:

total: 5,504 km
border countries: Angola 201 km, Cameroon 523 km, Central African
Republic 467 km, Democratic Republic of the Congo 2,410 km, Gabon
1,903 km


Coastline:

169 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; rainy season (March to June); dry season (June to
October); persistent high temperatures and humidity; particularly
enervating climate astride the Equator


Terrain:

coastal plain, southern basin, central plateau, northern basin


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Mount Berongou 903 m


Natural resources:

petroleum, timber, potash, lead, zinc, uranium, copper, phosphates,
gold, magnesium, natural gas, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 1.45%
permanent crops: 0.15%
other: 98.4% (2005)


Irrigated land:

20 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

832 cu km (1987)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.03 cu km/yr (59%/29%/12%)
per capita: 8 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

seasonal flooding


Environment - current issues:

air pollution from vehicle emissions; water pollution from the
dumping of raw sewage; tap water is not potable; deforestation


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea


Geography - note:

about 70% of the population lives in Brazzaville, Pointe-Noire, or
along the railroad between them


People
Congo, Republic of the



Population:

3,903,318
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 46.1% (male 906,345/female 894,568)
15-64 years: 51% (male 989,126/female 1,002,682)
65 years and over: 2.8% (male 45,560/female 65,037) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 16.7 years
male: 16.5 years
female: 17 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.696% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

41.76 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

12.28 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-2.52 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.7 male(s)/female
total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 81.29 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 86.9 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 75.51 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 53.74 years
male: 52.52 years
female: 55 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

5.92 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

4.9% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

90,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

9,700 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne disease: malaria and African trypanosomiasis (sleeping
sickness)
animal contact disease: rabies (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Congolese (singular and plural)
adjective: Congolese or Congo


Ethnic groups:

Kongo 48%, Sangha 20%, M'Bochi 12%, Teke 17%, Europeans and other 3%


Religions:

Christian 50%, animist 48%, Muslim 2%


Languages:

French (official), Lingala and Monokutuba (lingua franca trade
languages), many local languages and dialects (of which Kikongo is
the most widespread)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 83.8%
male: 89.6%
female: 78.4% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 9 years
male: 10 years
female: 8 years (2003)


Education expenditures:

1.9% of GDP (2005)


Government
Congo, Republic of the



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of the Congo
conventional short form: Congo (Brazzaville)
local long form: Republique du Congo
local short form: none
former: Middle Congo, Congo/Brazzaville, Congo


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Brazzaville
geographic coordinates: 4 15 S, 15 17 E
time difference: UTC+1 (six hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

10 regions (regions, singular - region) and 1 commune*; Bouenza,
Brazzaville*, Cuvette, Cuvette-Ouest, Kouilou, Lekoumou, Likouala,
Niari, Plateaux, Pool, Sangha


Independence:

15 August 1960 (from France)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 15 August (1960)


Constitution:

approved by referendum 20 January 2002


Legal system:

based on French civil law system and customary law; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Denis SASSOU-NGUESSO (since 25 October
1997, following the civil war in which he toppled elected president
Pascal LISSOUBA);
head of government: Prime Minister Isidore MVOUBA (since 7 January
2005)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
elections: president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 10 March 2002 (next
to be held in 2009)
election results: Denis SASSOU-NGUESSO reelected president; percent
of vote - Denis SASSOU-NGUESSO 89.4%, Joseph Kignoumbi Kia MBOUNGOU
2.7%


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (66 seats; members are
elected by indirect vote to serve five-year terms) and the National
Assembly (137 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
five-year terms)
elections: Senate - last held 11 July 2002 (next to be held in July
2008); National Assembly - last held 24 June and 5 August 2007 (next
to be held in 2012)
election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - FDU 56, other 10; National Assembly - percent of vote by
party - NA; seats by party - PCT 46, MCDDI 11, UPADS 11, MAR 5, MSD
5, independents 37, other 22


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court or Cour Supreme


Political parties and leaders:

Action Movement for Renewal or MAR; Congolese Movement for Democracy
and Integral Development or MCDDI [Michel MAMPOUYA]; Congolese
Labour Party or PCT; Movement for Solidarity and Development or MSD;
Pan-African Union for Social Development or UPADS [Martin MBERI];
Rally for Democracy and Social Progress or RDPS [Jean-Pierre
Thystere TCHICAYA, president]; Rally for Democracy and the Republic
or RDR [Raymond Damasge NGOLLO]; Union for Democracy and Republic or
UDR; United Democratic Forces or FDU [Sebastian EBAO]; many less
important parties


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Congolese Trade Union Congress or CSC; General Union of Congolese
Pupils and Students or UGEEC; Revolutionary Union of Congolese Women
or URFC; Union of Congolese Socialist Youth or UJSC


International organization participation:

ACCT, ACP, AfDB, AU, BDEAC, CEMAC, FAO, FZ, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt,
ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU,
ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OIF, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
UNITAR, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Serge MOMBOULI
chancery: 4891 Colorado Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20011
telephone: [1] (202) 726-5500
FAX: [1] (202) 726-1860


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Allan EASTHAM
embassy: Boulevard de la Revolution, BDEAC Building, 4th Floor,
Brazzaville; note - a new embassy is expected to open in 2009
mailing address: B.P. 1015, Brazzaville
telephone: [242] 281-1481, [242] 281-3368; note - until the new
embassy in Brazzaville becomes operational, some duties will still
be handled in the US embassy in Kinshasha, Democratic Republic of
the Congo


Flag description:

divided diagonally from the lower hoist side by a yellow band; the
upper triangle (hoist side) is green and the lower triangle is red
note: uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia


Economy
Congo, Republic of the



Economy - overview:

The economy is a mixture of subsistence agriculture, an industrial
sector based largely on oil, and support services, and a government
characterized by budget problems and overstaffing. Oil has
supplanted forestry as the mainstay of the economy, providing a
major share of government revenues and exports. In the early 1980s,
rapidly rising oil revenues enabled the government to finance
large-scale development projects with GDP growth averaging 5%
annually, one of the highest rates in Africa. The government has
mortgaged a substantial portion of its oil earnings through
oil-backed loans that have contributed to a growing debt burden and
chronic revenue shortfalls. Economic reform efforts have been
undertaken with the support of international organizations, notably
the World Bank and the IMF. However, the reform program came to a
halt in June 1997 when civil war erupted. Denis SASSOU-NGUESSO, who
returned to power when the war ended in October 1997, publicly
expressed interest in moving forward on economic reforms and
privatization and in renewing cooperation with international
financial institutions. Economic progress was badly hurt by slumping
oil prices and the resumption of armed conflict in December 1998,
which worsened the republic's budget deficit. The current
administration presides over an uneasy internal peace and faces
difficult economic challenges of stimulating recovery and reducing
poverty. Recovery of oil prices has boosted the economy's GDP and
near-term prospects. In March 2006, the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) approved Heavily Indebted Poor
Countries (HIPC) treatment for Congo.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$12.86 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$7.657 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

-1.6% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$3,400 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 5.6%
industry: 57.1%
services: 37.3% (2006 est.)


Labor force:

NA


Unemployment rate:

NA%


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Investment (gross fixed):

40.4% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $3.295 billion
expenditures: $2.444 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.7% (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

15% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$1.4 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$204.3 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

NA


Agriculture - products:

cassava (tapioca), sugar, rice, corn, peanuts, vegetables, coffee,
cocoa; forest products


Industries:

petroleum extraction, cement, lumber, brewing, sugar, palm oil,
soap, flour, cigarettes


Industrial production growth rate:

-12% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

444 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

564 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

411 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 0.3%
hydro: 99.7%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

261,000 bbl/day


Oil - consumption:

7,677 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

230,200 bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - imports:

1,702 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

1.6 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

180 million cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

180 million cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

90.61 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$1.491 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$5.8 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

petroleum, lumber, plywood, sugar, cocoa, coffee, diamonds


Exports - partners:

US 41%, China 36.5%, Taiwan 3.6% (2007)


Imports:

$2.634 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

capital equipment, construction materials, foodstuffs


Imports - partners:

France 18.1%, South Korea 14.7%, China 12.6%, Italy 10.3%, India
4.7%, US 4.2% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$1.449 billion (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$2.206 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$5 billion (2000 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XAF); note - responsible
authority is the Bank of the Central African States


Currency code:

XAF


Exchange rates:

Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XAF) per US dollar - 483.6
(2007), 522.59 (2006), 527.47 (2005), 528.29 (2004), 581.2 (2003)


Communications
Congo, Republic of the



Telephones - main lines in use:

15,900 (2005)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

1.334 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: services barely adequate for government use; key
exchanges are in Brazzaville, Pointe-Noire, and Loubomo; intercity
lines frequently out of order; fixed-line infrastructure inadequate
providing less than 1 connection per 100 persons; in the absence of
an adequate fixed line infrastructure, mobile-cellular
subscribership has surged reaching 35 per 100 persons
domestic: primary network consists of microwave radio relay and
coaxial cable
international: country code - 242; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 5, shortwave 3 (2001)


Radios:

341,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (2001)


Televisions:

33,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.cg


Internet hosts:

5 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

70,000 (2006)


Transportation
Congo, Republic of the



Airports:

31 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 5
over 3,047 m: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 26
1,524 to 2,437 m: 7
914 to 1,523 m: 10
under 914 m: 9 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 89 km; liquid petroleum gas 4 km; oil 758 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 894 km
narrow gauge: 894 km 1.067-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 17,289 km
paved: 864 km
unpaved: 16,425 km (2004)


Waterways:

1,125 km (commercially navigable on Congo and Oubanqui rivers) (2006)


Merchant marine:

registered in other countries: 1 (Congo, Democratic Republic of the
1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Brazzaville, Djeno, Impfondo, Ouesso, Oyo, Pointe-Noire


Military
Congo, Republic of the



Military branches:

Congolese Armed Forces (Forces Armees Congolaises, FAC): Army, Navy,
Congolese Air Force (Armee de l'Air Congolaise), Gendarmerie,
Special Presidential Security Guard (GSSP) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service; women allowed to
serve (2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 842,771
females age 16-49: 833,624 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 519,296
females age 16-49: 509,564 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 45,671
female: 45,248 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

3.1% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Congo, Republic of the



Disputes - international:

the location of the boundary in the broad Congo River with the
Democratic Republic of the Congo is indefinite except in the Pool
Malebo/Stanley Pool area


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 46,341 (Democratic Republic of Congo);
6,564 (Rwanda)
IDPs: 48,000 (multiple civil wars since 1992; most IDPs are ethnic
Lari) (2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Republic of the Congo is a source and destination
country for children trafficked for the purposes of forced labor and
commercial sexual exploitation; girls are trafficked from rural
areas within the country for commercial sexual exploitation, forced
street vending, and domestic servitude; children are trafficked from
other African countries for domestic servitude, forced market
vending, and forced labor in the fishing industry
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Republic of the Congo is on the
Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to show evidence of increasing
efforts to combat trafficking in persons in 2007; struggling to
recover from six years of civil conflict that ended in 2003, the
Republic of the Congo's capacity to address trafficking is
handicapped; the government neither monitors its borders for
trafficking activity nor provides specialized anti-trafficking
training for law enforcement officials; the government does not
encourage victims to assist in trafficking investigations or
prosecutions, and has not taken measures to reduce demand for
commercial sex acts in the Republic of the Congo (2008)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Cook Islands

Introduction
Cook Islands



Background:

Named after Captain COOK, who sighted them in 1770, the islands
became a British protectorate in 1888. By 1900, administrative
control was transferred to New Zealand; in 1965, residents chose
self-government in free association with New Zealand. The emigration
of skilled workers to New Zealand and government deficits are
continuing problems.


Geography
Cook Islands



Location:

Oceania, group of islands in the South Pacific Ocean, about half way
between Hawaii and New Zealand


Geographic coordinates:

21 14 S, 159 46 W


Map references:

Oceania


Area:

total: 236.7 sq km
land: 236.7 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

1.3 times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

120 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin


Climate:

tropical oceanic; moderated by trade winds; a dry season from April
to November and a more humid season from December to March


Terrain:

low coral atolls in north; volcanic, hilly islands in south


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: Te Manga 652 m


Natural resources:

NEGL


Land use:

arable land: 16.67%
permanent crops: 8.33%
other: 75% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

typhoons (November to March)


Environment - current issues:

NA


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone
Layer Protection
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

the northern Cook Islands are seven low-lying, sparsely populated,
coral atolls; the southern Cook Islands, where most of the
population lives, consist of eight elevated, fertile, volcanic
isles, including the largest, Rarotonga, at 67 sq km


People
Cook Islands



Population:

12,271 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: (male 1,834/female 1,624)
15-64 years: (male 3,973/female 3,747)
65 years and over: (male 542/female 551)


Median age:

total: 29.8 years
male: 29 years
female: 30.4 years (2001 census)


Population growth rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

16.71 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

total population: 1.07 male(s)/female (2001 census)


Infant mortality rate:

total: NA
male: NA
female: NA (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: NA
male: NA
female: NA (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

3.1 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Cook Islander(s)
adjective: Cook Islander


Ethnic groups:

Cook Island Maori (Polynesian) 87.7%, part Cook Island Maori 5.8%,
other 6.5% (2001 census)


Religions:

Cook Islands Christian Church 55.9%, Roman Catholic 16.8%,
Seventh-Day Adventists 7.9%, Church of Latter Day Saints 3.8%, other
Protestant 5.8%, other 4.2%, unspecified 2.6%, none 3% (2001 census)


Languages:

English (official), Maori


Literacy:

definition: NA
total population: 95%
male: NA%
female: NA%


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 10 years
male: 10 years
female: 10 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

0.2% of GDP (2001)


People - note:

2001 census counted a resident population of 15,017


Government
Cook Islands



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Cook Islands
former: Harvey Islands


Dependency status:

self-governing in free association with New Zealand; Cook Islands is
fully responsible for internal affairs; New Zealand retains
responsibility for external affairs and defense, in consultation
with the Cook Islands


Government type:

self-governing parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Avarua
geographic coordinates: 21 12 S, 159 46 W
time difference: UTC-10 (5 hours behind Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

none


Independence:

none (became self-governing in free association with New Zealand on
4 August 1965 and has the right at any time to move to full
independence by unilateral action)


National holiday:

Constitution Day, first Monday in August (1965)


Constitution:

4 August 1965


Legal system:

based on New Zealand law and English common law


Suffrage:

NA years of age; universal (adult)


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by Frederick GOODWIN (since 9 February 2001); New
Zealand High Commissioner Brian DONNELLY (since 21 February 2008),
representative of New Zealand
head of government: Prime Minister Jim MARURAI (since 14 December
2004); Deputy Prime Minister Terepai MAOATE (since 9 August 2005)
cabinet: Cabinet chosen by the prime minister; collectively
responsible to Parliament
elections: the monarch is hereditary; the UK representative is
appointed by the monarch; the New Zealand high commissioner is
appointed by the New Zealand Government; following legislative
elections, the leader of the majority party or the leader of the
majority coalition usually becomes prime minister


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament consisting of a Legislative Assembly (or lower
house) (24 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve four-year
terms) and a House of Ariki (or upper house) made up of traditional
leaders
note: the House of Ariki advises on traditional matters and
maintains considerable influence but has no legislative powers
elections: last held 26 September 2006 (next to be held by 2011)
election results: percent of vote by party - Demo 51.9%, CIP 45.5%,
independent 2.7%; seats by party - Demo 15, CIP 8, independent 1


Judicial branch:

High Court


Political parties and leaders:

Cook Islands Party or CIP [Henry PUNA]; Democratic Party or Demo
[Dr. Terepai MAOATE]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Reform Conference (lobby for political system changes)
other: various groups lobbying for political change


International organization participation:

ACP, ADB, FAO, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IFAD, IFRCS, IMSO, IOC, ITUC, OPCW,
PIF, Sparteca, SPC, UNESCO, UPU, WHO, WMO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (self-governing in free association with New Zealand)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (self-governing in free association with New Zealand)


Flag description:

blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and a
large circle of 15 white five-pointed stars (one for every island)
centered in the outer half of the flag


Economy
Cook Islands



Economy - overview:

Like many other South Pacific island nations, the Cook Islands'
economic development is hindered by the isolation of the country
from foreign markets, the limited size of domestic markets, lack of
natural resources, periodic devastation from natural disasters, and
inadequate infrastructure. Agriculture, employing about one-third of
the working population, provides the economic base with major
exports made up of copra and citrus fruit. Black pearls are the Cook
Islands' leading export. Manufacturing activities are limited to
fruit processing, clothing, and handicrafts. Trade deficits are
offset by remittances from emigrants and by foreign aid,
overwhelmingly from New Zealand. In the 1980s and 1990s, the country
lived beyond its means, maintaining a bloated public service and
accumulating a large foreign debt. Subsequent reforms, including the
sale of state assets, the strengthening of economic management, the
encouragement of tourism, and a debt restructuring agreement, have
rekindled investment and growth.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$183.2 million (2005 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$183.2 million (2005 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

0.1% (2005 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$9,100 (2005 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 15.1%
industry: 9.6%
services: 75.3% (2004)


Labor force:

6,820 (2001)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 29%
industry: 15%
services: 56% (1995)


Unemployment rate:

13.1% (2005)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $70.95 million
expenditures: $69.05 million (FY05/06)


Fiscal year:

1 April - 31 March


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.1% (2005 est.)


Agriculture - products:

copra, citrus, pineapples, tomatoes, beans, pawpaws, bananas, yams,
taro, coffee; pigs, poultry


Industries:

fruit processing, tourism, fishing, clothing, handicrafts


Industrial production growth rate:

1% (2002)


Electricity - production:

30 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

27.9 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

463.7 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

475.5 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

$26.67 million (2005)


Exports:

$5.222 million (2005)


Exports - commodities:

copra, papayas, fresh and canned citrus fruit, coffee; fish; pearls
and pearl shells; clothing


Exports - partners:

Australia 34%, Japan 27%, NZ 25%, US 8% (2006)


Imports:

$81.04 million (2005)


Imports - commodities:

foodstuffs, textiles, fuels, timber, capital goods


Imports - partners:

NZ 61%, Fiji 19%, US 9%, Australia 6% (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$13.1 million; note - New Zealand continues to furnish the greater
part (1995)


Debt - external:

$141 million (1996 est.)


Currency (code):

NZ dollar (NZD)


Currency code:

NZD


Exchange rates:

NZ dollars (NZD) per US dollar - 1.3811 (2007), 1.5408 (2006),
1.4203 (2005), 1.5087 (2004), 1.7221 (2003)


Communications
Cook Islands



Telephones - main lines in use:

6,200 (2002)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

1,500 (2002)


Telephone system:

general assessment: Telecom Cook Islands offers international direct
dialing, Internet, email, fax, and Telex
domestic: individual islands are connected by a combination of
satellite earth stations, microwave systems, and VHF and HF
radiotelephone; within the islands, service is provided by small
exchanges connected to subscribers by open-wire, cable, and
fiber-optic cable
international: country code - 682; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 0 (2004)


Radios:

14,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (outer islands receive satellite broadcasts) (2004)


Televisions:

4,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.ck


Internet hosts:

2,234 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

3 (2000)


Internet users:

3,600 (2002)


Transportation
Cook Islands



Airports:

9 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 7
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 4
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 320 km
paved: 33 km
unpaved: 287 km (2003)


Merchant marine:

total: 26
by type: cargo 14, chemical tanker 1, petroleum tanker 1,
refrigerated cargo 8, roll on/roll off 2
foreign-owned: 17 (Latvia 1, Lithuania 1, NZ 1, Nigeria 1, Norway 5,
Sweden 8) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Avatiu


Military
Cook Islands



Military branches:

no regular military forces; National Police Department (2007)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 157
female: 133 (2008 est.)


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of New Zealand, in consultation with
the Cook Islands and at its request


Transnational Issues
Cook Islands



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Coral Sea Islands

Introduction
Coral Sea Islands



Background:

Scattered over more than three-quarters of a million square
kilometers of ocean, the Coral Sea Islands were declared a territory
of Australia in 1969. They are uninhabited except for a small
meteorological staff on the Willis Islets. Automated weather
stations, beacons, and a lighthouse occupy many other islands and
reefs.


Geography
Coral Sea Islands



Location:

Oceania, islands in the Coral Sea, northeast of Australia


Geographic coordinates:

18 00 S, 152 00 E


Map references:

Oceania


Area:

total: less than 3 sq km
land: less than 3 sq km
water: 0 sq km
note: includes numerous small islands and reefs scattered over a sea
area of about 780,000 sq km, with the Willis Islets the most
important


Area - comparative:

NA


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

3,095 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 3 nm
exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical


Terrain:

sand and coral reefs and islands (or cays)


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: unnamed location on Cato Island 6 m


Natural resources:

NEGL


Land use:

arable land: 0%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 100% (mostly grass or scrub cover) (2005)


Irrigated land:

0 sq km


Natural hazards:

occasional tropical cyclones


Environment - current issues:

no permanent fresh water resources


Geography - note:

important nesting area for birds and turtles


People
Coral Sea Islands



Population:

no indigenous inhabitants
note: there is a staff of three to four at the meteorological
station on Willis Island (July 2007 est.)


Government
Coral Sea Islands



Country name:

conventional long form: Coral Sea Islands Territory
conventional short form: Coral Sea Islands


Dependency status:

territory of Australia; administered from Canberra by the Australian
Attorney-General's Department


Legal system:

the laws of Australia, where applicable, apply


Executive branch:

administered from Canberra by the Australian Attorney-General's
Department


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (territory of Australia)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (territory of Australia)


Flag description:

the flag of Australia is used


Economy
Coral Sea Islands



Economy - overview:

no economic activity


Communications
Coral Sea Islands



Communications - note:

there are automatic weather stations on many of the isles and reefs
relaying data to the mainland


Transportation
Coral Sea Islands



Ports and terminals:

none; offshore anchorage only


Military
Coral Sea Islands



Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of Australia


Transnational Issues
Coral Sea Islands



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Costa Rica

Introduction
Costa Rica



Background:

Although explored by the Spanish early in the 16th century, initial
attempts at colonizing Costa Rica proved unsuccessful due to a
combination of factors, including: disease from mosquito-infested
swamps, brutal heat, resistance by natives, and pirate raids. It was
not until 1563 that a permanent settlement of Cartago was
established in the cooler, fertile central highlands. The area
remained a colony for some two and a half centuries. In 1821, Costa
Rica became one of several Central American provinces that jointly
declared their independence from Spain. Two years later it joined
the United Provinces of Central America, but this federation
disintegrated in 1838, at which time Costa Rica proclaimed its
sovereignty and independence. Since the late 19th century, only two
brief periods of violence have marred the country's democratic
development. Although it still maintains a large agricultural
sector, Costa Rica has expanded its economy to include strong
technology and tourism industries. The standard of living is
relatively high. Land ownership is widespread.


Geography
Costa Rica



Location:

Central America, bordering both the Caribbean Sea and the North
Pacific Ocean, between Nicaragua and Panama


Geographic coordinates:

10 00 N, 84 00 W


Map references:

Central America and the Caribbean


Area:

total: 51,100 sq km
land: 50,660 sq km
water: 440 sq km
note: includes Isla del Coco


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than West Virginia


Land boundaries:

total: 639 km
border countries: Nicaragua 309 km, Panama 330 km


Coastline:

1,290 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical and subtropical; dry season (December to April); rainy
season (May to November); cooler in highlands


Terrain:

coastal plains separated by rugged mountains including over 100
volcanic cones, of which several are major volcanoes


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: Cerro Chirripo 3,810 m


Natural resources:

hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 4.4%
permanent crops: 5.87%
other: 89.73% (2005)


Irrigated land:

1,080 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

112.4 cu km (2000)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 2.68 cu km/yr (29%/17%/53%)
per capita: 619 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

occasional earthquakes, hurricanes along Atlantic coast; frequent
flooding of lowlands at onset of rainy season and landslides; active
volcanoes


Environment - current issues:

deforestation and land use change, largely a result of the clearing
of land for cattle ranching and agriculture; soil erosion; coastal
marine pollution; fisheries protection; solid waste management; air
pollution


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: Marine Life Conservation


Geography - note:

four volcanoes, two of them active, rise near the capital of San
Jose in the center of the country; one of the volcanoes, Irazu,
erupted destructively in 1963-65


People
Costa Rica



Population:

4,195,914 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 27.2% (male 584,782/female 557,952)
15-64 years: 66.8% (male 1,416,456/female 1,384,692)
65 years and over: 6% (male 116,461/female 135,571) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 27.1 years
male: 26.7 years
female: 27.6 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.388% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

17.71 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

4.31 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

0.48 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.86 male(s)/female
total population: 1.02 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 9.01 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 9.92 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 8.05 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 77.4 years
male: 74.79 years
female: 80.14 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.17 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.6% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

12,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

900 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: intermediate
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A
vectorborne diseases: dengue fever (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Costa Rican(s)
adjective: Costa Rican


Ethnic groups:

white (including mestizo) 94%, black 3%, Amerindian 1%, Chinese 1%,
other 1%


Religions:

Roman Catholic 76.3%, Evangelical 13.7%, Jehovah's Witnesses 1.3%,
other Protestant 0.7%, other 4.8%, none 3.2%


Languages:

Spanish (official), English


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 94.9%
male: 94.7%
female: 95.1% (2000 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 12 years
male: 12 years
female: 12 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

4.9% of GDP (2004)


Government
Costa Rica



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Costa Rica
conventional short form: Costa Rica
local long form: Republica de Costa Rica
local short form: Costa Rica


Government type:

democratic republic


Capital:

name: San Jose
geographic coordinates: 9 56 N, 84 05 W
time difference: UTC-6 (1 hour behind Washington, DC during Standard
Time)


Administrative divisions:

7 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia); Alajuela, Cartago,
Guanacaste, Heredia, Limon, Puntarenas, San Jose


Independence:

15 September 1821 (from Spain)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 15 September (1821)


Constitution:

7 November 1949


Legal system:

based on Spanish civil law system; judicial review of legislative
acts in the Supreme Court; has accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal and compulsory


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Oscar ARIAS Sanchez (since 8 May 2006);
First Vice President Laura CHINCHILLA (since 8 May 2006); Second
Vice President (vacant); note - the president is both the chief of
state and head of government
head of government: President Oscar ARIAS Sanchez (since 8 May
2006); First Vice President Laura CHINCHILLA (since 8 May 2006);
Second Vice President (vacant)
cabinet: Cabinet selected by the president
elections: president and vice presidents elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for a single four-year term; election last held 5
February 2006 (next to be held in February 2010)
election results: Oscar ARIAS Sanchez elected president; percent of
vote - Oscar ARIAS Sanchez (PLN) 40.9%; Otton SOLIS (PAC) 39.8%,
Otto GUEVARA Guth (PML) 8%, Ricardo TOLEDO (PUSC) 3%


Legislative branch:

unicameral Legislative Assembly or Asamblea Legislativa (57 seats;
members are elected by direct, popular vote to serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 5 February 2006 (next to be held in February
2010)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
PLN 25, PAC 17, PML 6, PUSC 5, PASE 1, PFA 1, PRN 1, PUN 1


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (22 justices are elected for
renewable eight-year terms by the Legislative Assembly)


Political parties and leaders:

Authentic Member from Heredia [Jose SALAS]; Citizen Action Party or
PAC [Epsy CAMPBELL Barr]; Costa Rican Renovation Party or PRC
[Gerardo Justo OROZCO Alvarez]; Democratic Force Party or PFD [Marco
NUNEZ Gonzalez]; General Union Party or PUGEN [Carlos Alberto
FERNANDEZ Vega]; Homeland First or PP [Juan Jose VARGAS Fallas];
Independent Worker Party or PIO [Jose Alberto CUBERO Carmona];
Libertarian Movement Party or PML [Otto GUEVARA Guth]; National
Christian Alliance Party or ANC [Juan Carlos CHAVEZ Mora]; National
Integration Party or PIN [Walter MUNOZ Cespedes]; National
Liberation Party or PLN [Francisco Antonio PACHECO Fernandez];
National Patriotic Party or PPN [Daniel Enrique REYNOLDS Vargas];
National Restoration Party or PRN [Fabio Enrique DELGADO Hernandez];
National Union Party or PUN [Arturo ACOSTA Mora]; Nationalist
Democratic Alliance or ADN [Jose Miguel VILLALOBOS Umana]; Patriotic
Union or UP [Jose Miguel CORRALES Bolanos]; Social Christian Unity
Party or PUSC [Luis FISHMAN Zonzinski]; Union for Change Party or
UPC [Antonio ALVAREZ Desanti]; United Leftist Coalition or IU
[Humberto VARGAS Carbonel]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Authentic Confederation of Democratic Workers or CATD (Communist
Party affiliate); Chamber of Coffee Growers; Confederated Union of
Workers or CUT (Communist Party affiliate); Costa Rican
Confederation of Democratic Workers or CCTD (Liberation Party
affiliate); Costa Rican Exporter's Chamber or CADEXCO; Costa Rican
Solidarity Movement; Costa Rican Union of Private Sector Enterprises
or UCCAEP [Rafael CARRILLO]; Federation of Public Service Workers or
FTSP; National Association for Economic Development or ANFE;
National Association of Educators or ANDE; National Association of
Public and Private Employees or ANEP [Albino VARGAS]; Rerum Novarum
or CTRN (PLN affiliate) [Gilbert BROWN]


International organization participation:

BCIE, CACM, FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO,
ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES, LAIA (observer), MIGA, NAM (observer), OAS,
OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN, UN Security Council (temporary), UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO,
WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Tomas DUENAS
chancery: 2114 S Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 234-2945
FAX: [1] (202) 265-4795
consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami,
New Orleans, New York, San Juan (Puerto Rico), Tampa (temporarily
closed), Washington, DC
consulate(s): San Francisco


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Peter CIANCHETTE
embassy: Calle 120 Avenida O, Pavas, San Jose
mailing address: APO AA 34020
telephone: [506] 519-2000
FAX: [506] 519-2305


Flag description:

five horizontal bands of blue (top), white, red (double width),
white, and blue, with the coat of arms in a white elliptical disk on
the hoist side of the red band; above the coat of arms a light blue
ribbon contains the words, AMERICA CENTRAL, and just below it near
the top of the coat of arms is a white ribbon with the words,
REPUBLICA COSTA RICA


Economy
Costa Rica



Economy - overview:

Costa Rica's basically stable economy depends on tourism,
agriculture, and electronics exports. Poverty has remained around
20% for nearly 20 years, and the strong social safety net that had
been put into place by the government has eroded due to increased
financial constraints on government expenditures. Immigration from
Nicaragua has increasingly become a concern for the government. The
estimated 300,000-500,000 Nicaraguans estimated to be in Costa Rica
legally and illegally are an important source of (mostly unskilled)
labor, but also place heavy demands on the social welfare system.
Foreign investors remain attracted by the country's political
stability and high education levels, as well as the fiscal
incentives offered in the free-trade zones. Exports have become more
diversified in the past 10 years due to the growth of the high-tech
manufacturing sector, which is dominated by the microprocessor
industry. Tourism continues to bring in foreign exchange, as Costa
Rica's impressive biodiversity makes it a key destination for
ecotourism. The government continues to grapple with its large
internal and external deficits and sizable internal debt. Reducing
inflation remains a difficult problem because of rising import
prices, labor market rigidities, and fiscal deficits. Tax and public
expenditure reforms will be necessary to close the budget gap. In
October 2007, a national referendum voted in favor of the US-Central
American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA).


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$45.77 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$26.24 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6.8% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$11,100 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 8.6%
industry: 29.4%
services: 62.1% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

1.92 million
note: this official estimate excludes Nicaraguans living in Costa
Rica (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 14%
industry: 22%
services: 64% (2006 est.)


Unemployment rate:

4.6% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

16% (2006 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 1%
highest 10%: 37.4% (2003)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

49.8 (2003)


Investment (gross fixed):

21.6% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $3.976 billion
expenditures: $3.808 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

46.6% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

9.4% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

17% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

12.8% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$4.504 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$2.87 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$12.91 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

bananas, pineapples, coffee, melons, ornamental plants, sugar, corn,
rice, beans, potatoes; beef; timber


Industries:

microprocessors, food processing, medical equipment, textiles and
clothing, construction materials, fertilizer, plastic products


Industrial production growth rate:

7.3% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

8.521 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

7.779 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

39.55 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

203.2 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 1.5%
hydro: 81.9%
nuclear: 0%
other: 16.6% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2004)


Oil - consumption:

45,600 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

2,115 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

43,110 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$1.499 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$9.268 billion (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

bananas, pineapples, coffee, melons, ornamental plants, sugar;
seafood; electronic components, medical equipment


Exports - partners:

US 25.7%, China 14.1%, Netherlands 10.9%, UK 6.3%, Mexico 5% (2007)


Imports:

$12.26 billion (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

raw materials, consumer goods, capital equipment, petroleum,
construction materials


Imports - partners:

US 41%, Mexico 6.1%, Venezuela 5.7%, Japan 5.4%, China 5.1%, Brazil
4.3% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$29.51 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$4.114 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$7.416 billion (30 June 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$8.53 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$490 million (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$1.478 billion (2005)


Currency (code):

Costa Rican colon (CRC)


Currency code:

CRC


Exchange rates:

Costa Rican colones (CRC) per US dollar - 519.53 (2007), 511.3
(2006), 477.79 (2005), 437.91 (2004), 398.66 (2003)


Communications
Costa Rica



Telephones - main lines in use:

1.437 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

1.503 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: good domestic telephone service in terms of
breadth of coverage; restricted cellular telephone service;
state-run monopoly provider is struggling with the demand for new
lines, resulting in long waiting times
domestic: point-to-point and point-to-multi-point microwave,
fiber-optic, and coaxial cable link rural areas; Internet service is
available
international: country code - 506; landing point for the Americas
Region Caribbean Ring System (ARCOS-1) fiber-optic
telecommunications submarine cable and the MAYA-1 submarine cable
that provide links to South and Central America, parts of the
Caribbean, and the US; connected to Central American Microwave
System; satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 65, FM 51, shortwave 19 (2002)


Radios:

980,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

20 (plus 43 repeaters) (2002)


Televisions:

525,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.cr


Internet hosts:

16,440 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

3 (of which only one is legal) (2000)


Internet users:

1.5 million (2007)


Transportation
Costa Rica



Airports:

151 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 36
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 21
under 914 m: 11 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 115
914 to 1,523 m: 19
under 914 m: 96 (2007)


Pipelines:

refined products 242 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 278 km
narrow gauge: 278 km 1.067-m gauge
note: none of the railway network is in use (2007)


Roadways:

total: 35,330 km
paved: 8,621 km
unpaved: 26,709 km (2004)


Waterways:

730 km (seasonally navigable by small craft) (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 1
by type: passenger/cargo 1 (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Caldera, Puerto Limon


Military
Costa Rica



Military branches:

no regular military forces; Ministry of Public Security, Government,
and Police (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,134,205
females age 16-49: 1,095,763 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 958,013
females age 16-49: 925,727 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 40,767
female: 38,899 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0.4% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Costa Rica



Disputes - international:

the ICJ has given Costa Rica until January 2008 to reply and
Nicaragua until July 2008 to rejoin before rendering its decision on
the navigation, security, and commercial rights of Costa Rican
vessels on the Río San Juan over which Nicaragua retains sovereignty


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 9,699-11,500 (Colombia) (2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Costa Rica is a source, transit, and destination
country for men, women, and children trafficked for the purposes of
commercial sexual exploitation and forced labor; women and girls
from neighboring states, Russia, Uzbekistan, and the Philippines are
trafficked into the country for sexual exploitation; Costa Rica also
serves as a transit point for victims trafficked to North America
and Europe; the government identifies child sex tourism as a serious
problem; men, women, and children are also trafficked within the
country for forced labor in fishing and construction, and as
domestic servants
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Costa Rica is on the Tier 2 Watch
List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to
combat human trafficking, particularly in terms of its failure to
improve its inadequate assistance to victims; while Costa Rican
officials recognize human trafficking as a serious problem, the lack
of a stronger response by the government is of concern (2008)


Illicit drugs:

transshipment country for cocaine and heroin from South America;
illicit production of cannabis in remote areas; domestic cocaine
consumption, particularly crack cocaine, is rising; significant
consumption of amphetamines



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Cote d'Ivoire

Introduction
Cote d'Ivoire



Background:

Close ties to France since independence in 1960, the development of
cocoa production for export, and foreign investment made Cote
d'Ivoire one of the most prosperous of the West African states, but
did not protect it from political turmoil. In December 1999, a
military coup - the first ever in Cote d'Ivoire's history -
overthrew the government. Junta leader Robert GUEI blatantly rigged
elections held in late 2000 and declared himself the winner. Popular
protest forced him to step aside and brought Laurent GBAGBO into
power. Ivorian dissidents and disaffected members of the military
launched a failed coup attempt in September 2002. Rebel forces
claimed the northern half of the country, and in January 2003 were
granted ministerial positions in a unity government under the
auspices of the Linas-Marcoussis Peace Accord. President GBAGBO and
rebel forces resumed implementation of the peace accord in December
2003 after a three-month stalemate, but issues that sparked the
civil war, such as land reform and grounds for citizenship, remained
unresolved. In March 2007 President GBAGBO and former New Force
rebel leader Guillaume SORO signed the Ouagadougou Political
Agreement. As a result of the agreement, SORO joined GBAGBO's
government as Prime Minister and the two agreed to reunite the
country by dismantling the zone of confidence separating North from
South, integrate rebel forces into the national armed forces, and
hold elections. Several thousand French and UN troops remain in Cote
d'Ivoire to help the parties implement their commitments and to
support the peace process.


Geography
Cote d'Ivoire



Location:

Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean, between Ghana
and Liberia


Geographic coordinates:

8 00 N, 5 00 W


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 322,460 sq km
land: 318,000 sq km
water: 4,460 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than New Mexico


Land boundaries:

total: 3,110 km
border countries: Burkina Faso 584 km, Ghana 668 km, Guinea 610 km,
Liberia 716 km, Mali 532 km


Coastline:

515 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical along coast, semiarid in far north; three seasons - warm
and dry (November to March), hot and dry (March to May), hot and wet
(June to October)


Terrain:

mostly flat to undulating plains; mountains in northwest


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Gulf of Guinea 0 m
highest point: Mont Nimba 1,752 m


Natural resources:

petroleum, natural gas, diamonds, manganese, iron ore, cobalt,
bauxite, copper, gold, nickel, tantalum, silica sand, clay, cocoa
beans, coffee, palm oil, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 10.23%
permanent crops: 11.16%
other: 78.61% (2005)


Irrigated land:

730 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

81 cu km (2001)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.93 cu km/yr (24%/12%/65%)
per capita: 51 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

coast has heavy surf and no natural harbors; during the rainy season
torrential flooding is possible


Environment - current issues:

deforestation (most of the country's forests - once the largest in
West Africa - have been heavily logged); water pollution from sewage
and industrial and agricultural effluents


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

most of the inhabitants live along the sandy coastal region; apart
from the capital area, the forested interior is sparsely populated


People
Cote d'Ivoire



Population:

20,179,602
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 40.9% (male 4,161,238/female 4,092,593)
15-64 years: 56.3% (male 5,790,503/female 5,568,621)
65 years and over: 2.8% (male 285,116/female 281,531) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 19 years
male: 19.2 years
female: 18.9 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.156% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

32.73 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

11.17 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 1.01 male(s)/female
total population: 1.03 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 69.76 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 77.06 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 62.25 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 54.64 years
male: 53.95 years
female: 55.35 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

4.23 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

7% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

570,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

47,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: malaria and yellow fever
water contact: schistosomiasis
animal contact disease: rabies
note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Ivoirian(s)
adjective: Ivoirian


Ethnic groups:

Akan 42.1%, Voltaiques or Gur 17.6%, Northern Mandes 16.5%, Krous
11%, Southern Mandes 10%, other 2.8% (includes 130,000 Lebanese and
14,000 French) (1998)


Religions:

Muslim 38.6%, Christian 32.8%, indigenous 11.9%, none 16.7% (2008
est)
note: the majority of foreigners (migratory workers) are Muslim
(70%) and Christian (20%)


Languages:

French (official), 60 native dialects with Dioula the most widely
spoken


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 48.7%
male: 60.8%
female: 38.6% (2000 est.)


Education expenditures:

4.6% of GDP (2001)


Government
Cote d'Ivoire



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Cote d'Ivoire
conventional short form: Cote d'Ivoire
local long form: Republique de Cote d'Ivoire
local short form: Cote d'Ivoire
note: pronounced coat-div-whar
former: Ivory Coast


Government type:

republic; multiparty presidential regime established 1960
note: the government is currently operating under a power-sharing
agreement mandated by international mediators


Capital:

name: Yamoussoukro
geographic coordinates: 6 49 N, 5 17 W
time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
note: although Yamoussoukro has been the official capital since
1983, Abidjan remains the commercial and administrative center; the
US, like other countries, maintains its Embassy in Abidjan


Administrative divisions:

19 regions; Agneby, Bafing, Bas-Sassandra, Denguele, Dix-Huit
Montagnes, Fromager, Haut-Sassandra, Lacs, Lagunes, Marahoue,
Moyen-Cavally, Moyen-Comoe, N'zi-Comoe, Savanes, Sud-Bandama,
Sud-Comoe, Vallee du Bandama, Worodougou, Zanzan


Independence:

7 August 1960 (from France)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 7 August (1960)


Constitution:

approved by referendum 23 July 2000


Legal system:

based on French civil law system and customary law; judicial review
in the Constitutional Chamber of the Supreme Court; accepts
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Laurent GBAGBO (since 26 October 2000)
head of government: Prime Minister Guillaume SORO (since 4 April
2007)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president; note -
under the current power-sharing agreement the prime minister and the
president share the authority to appoint ministers
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(no term limits); election last held 26 October 2000 (next to be
held 30 November 2008; elections were to be held in 2005 but have
been repeatedly postponed by the government; the UN Security Council
has extended the government's mandate); prime minister appointed by
the president
election results: Laurent GBAGBO elected president; percent of vote
- Laurent GBAGBO 59.4%, Robert GUEI 32.7%, Francis WODIE 5.7%, other
2.2%


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale (225 seats;
members are elected in single- and multi-district elections by
direct popular vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: elections last held 10 December 2000 with by-elections on
14 January 2001 (next to be held in November 2008 after the
government postponed the elections in 2005 and 2006)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
FPI 96, PDCI-RDA 94, RDR 5, PIT 4, other 2, independents 22, vacant 2
note: a Senate that was scheduled to be created in the October 2006
elections never took place


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court or Cour Supreme consists of four chambers: Judicial
Chamber for criminal cases, Audit Chamber for financial cases,
Constitutional Chamber for judicial review cases, and Administrative
Chamber for civil cases; there is no legal limit to the number of
members


Political parties and leaders:

Citizen's Democratic Union or UDCY [Theodore MEL EG]; Democratic
Party of Cote d'Ivoire or PDCI [Henri Konan BEDIE]; Ivorian Popular
Front or FPI [Pascale Affi N'GUESSAN]; Ivorian Worker's Party or PIT
[Francis WODIE]; Opposition Movement of the Future or MFA [Innocent
Augustin ANAKY]; Rally of the Republicans or RDR [Alassane
OUATTARA]; Union for Democracy and Peace in Cote d'Ivoire or UDPCI
[Toikeuse MABRI]; over 144 smaller registered parties


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Federation of University and High School Students of Cote d'Ivoire
or FESCI [Serges KOFFI]; Rally of Houphouetists for Democracy and
Peace or RHDP [Alphonse DJEDJE MADY]; Young Patriots [Charles BLE
GOUDE]


International organization participation:

ACCT, ACP, AfDB, AU, ECOWAS, Entente, FAO, FZ, G-24, G-77, IAEA,
IBRD, ICAO, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO,
IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OIC,
OIF, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNWTO,
UPU, WADB (regional), WAEMU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Yao Charles KOFFI
chancery: 3421 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20007
telephone: [1] (202) 797-0300
FAX: [1] (202) 244-3088


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Wanda L. NESBITT
embassy: Cocody Riviera Golf 01, Abidjan
mailing address: B. P. 1712, Abidjan 01
telephone: [225] 22 49 40 00
FAX: [225] 22 49 43 32


Flag description:

three equal vertical bands of orange (hoist side), white, and green
note: similar to the flag of Ireland, which is longer and has the
colors reversed - green (hoist side), white, and orange; also
similar to the flag of Italy, which is green (hoist side), white,
and red; design was based on the flag of France


Economy
Cote d'Ivoire



Economy - overview:

Cote d'Ivoire is the world's largest producer and exporter of cocoa
beans and a significant producer and exporter of coffee and palm
oil. Consequently, the economy is highly sensitive to fluctuations
in international prices for these products, and, to a lesser extent,
in climatic conditions. Despite government attempts to diversify the
economy, it is still heavily dependent on agriculture and related
activities, engaging roughly 68% of the population. Since 2006, oil
and gas production have become more important engines of economic
activity than cocoa. According to IMF statistics, earnings from oil
and refined products were $1.3 billion in 2006, while cocoa-related
revenues were $1 billion during the same period. Cote d'Ivoire's
offshore oil and gas production has resulted in substantial crude
oil exports and provides sufficient natural gas to fuel electricity
exports to Ghana, Togo, Benin, Mali and Burkina Faso. Oil
exploration by a number of consortiums of private companies
continues offshore, and President GBAGBO has expressed hope that
daily crude output could reach 200,000 barrels per day (b/d) by the
end of the decade. Since the end of the civil war in 2003, political
turmoil has continued to damage the economy, resulting in the loss
of foreign investment and slow economic growth. GDP grew by 1.8% in
2006 and 1.7% in 2007. Per capita income has declined by 15% since
1999.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$32.85 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$19.6 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

1.6% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$1,700 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 28.1%
industry: 21.5%
services: 50.5% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

6.907 million (68% agricultural) (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 68%
industry and services: NA (2007 est.)


Unemployment rate:

unemployment may have climbed to 40-50% as a result of the civil war


Population below poverty line:

42% (2006 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2%
highest 10%: 34% (2002)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

44.6 (2002)


Investment (gross fixed):

8.8% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $3.884 billion
expenditures: $4.106 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

75.2% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

1.9% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

4.25% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

NA


Stock of money:

$4.451 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$1.915 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$4.404 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

coffee, cocoa beans, bananas, palm kernels, corn, rice, manioc
(tapioca), sweet potatoes, sugar, cotton, rubber; timber


Industries:

foodstuffs, beverages; wood products, oil refining, truck and bus
assembly, textiles, fertilizer, building materials, electricity,
ship construction and repair


Industrial production growth rate:

-1.8% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

5.274 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

3.177 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

1.066 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 61.9%
hydro: 38.1%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

54,400 bbl/day (2008 est.)


Oil - consumption:

25,950 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

84,940 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

71,850 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

100 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

1.3 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

1.3 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

28.32 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$146 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$8.476 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

cocoa, coffee, timber, petroleum, cotton, bananas, pineapples, palm
oil, fish


Exports - partners:

Germany 9.7%, Nigeria 9.2%, Netherlands 8.4%, France 7.3%, US 7%,
Burkina Faso 4.4% (2007)


Imports:

$5.932 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

fuel, capital equipment, foodstuffs


Imports - partners:

Nigeria 31.1%, France 16.7%, China 7.3% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

ODA, $60 million (2007 est.)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$2.519 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$13.79 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$NA


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$4.155 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note - responsible
authority is the Central Bank of the West African States


Currency code:

XOF


Exchange rates:

Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US dollar - 481.83
(2007), 522.89 (2006), 527.47 (2005), 528.29 (2004), 581.2 (2003)
note: since 1 January 1999, the XOF franc has been pegged to the
euro at a rate of 655.957 XOF francs per euro


Communications
Cote d'Ivoire



Telephones - main lines in use:

730,000 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

7.05 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: well developed by African standards;
telecommunications sector privatized in late 1990s and operational
fixed-lines have more than quadrupled since that time; with multiple
cellular service providers competing in the market, cellular usage
has increased sharply to roughly 40 per 100 persons
domestic: open-wire lines and microwave radio relay; 90% digitalized
international: country code - 225; landing point for the SAT-3/WASC
fiber-optic submarine cable that provides connectivity to Europe and
Asia; satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Atlantic Ocean and 1
Indian Ocean) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 2, FM 9, shortwave 3 (1998)


Radios:

2.26 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

14 (1998)


Televisions:

1.09 million (2000)


Internet country code:

.ci


Internet hosts:

5,569 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

5 (2001)


Internet users:

300,000 (2006)


Transportation
Cote d'Ivoire



Airports:

34 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 7
over 3,047 m: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 4 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 27
1,524 to 2,437 m: 8
914 to 1,523 m: 14
under 914 m: 5 (2007)


Pipelines:

condensate 102 km; gas 245 km; oil 112 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 660 km
narrow gauge: 660 km 1.000 meter gauge
note: an additional 622 km of this railroad extends into Burkina
Faso (2006)


Roadways:

total: 80,000 km
paved: 6,500 km
unpaved: 73,500 km
note: includes intercity and urban roads; another 20,000 km of dirt
roads are in poor condition and 150,000 km of dirt roads are
impassable (2006)


Waterways:

980 km (navigable rivers, canals, and numerous coastal lagoons)
(2006)


Ports and terminals:

Abidjan, Espoir, San-Pedro


Military
Cote d'Ivoire



Military branches:

Cote d'Ivoire Defense and Security Forces (FDSC): Army, Navy, Air
Force (2006)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military service (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 4,369,735
females age 16-49: 4,287,042 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,393,104
females age 16-49: 2,381,607 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 234,032
female: 230,799 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.6% of GDP (2005 est)


Transnational Issues
Cote d'Ivoire



Disputes - international:

despite the presence of over 9,000 UN forces (UNOCI) in Cote
d'Ivoire since 2004, ethnic conflict still leaves displaced hundreds
of thousands of Ivorians in and out of the country as well as driven
out migrants from neighboring states who worked in Ivorian cocoa
plantations; the March 2007 peace deal between Ivorian rebels and
the government brought significant numbers of rebels out of hiding
in neighboring states


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 25,615 (Liberia)
IDPs: 709,000 (2002 coup; most IDPs are in western regions) (2007)


Trafficking in persons:

Cote d'Ivoire is a source, transit, and destination country for
women and children trafficked for forced labor and commercial sexual
exploitation; trafficking within the country is more prevalent than
international trafficking and the majority of victims are children;
women and girls are trafficked from northern areas to southern
cities for domestic servitude, restaurant labor, and sexual
exploitation; boys are trafficked internally for agricultural and
service labor and transnationally for forced labor in agriculture,
mining, construction, and in the fishing industry; women and girls
are trafficked to and from other West and Central African countries
for domestic servitude and forced street vending
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Cote d'Ivoire is on the Tier 2
Watch List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts
to eliminate trafficking in 2007, particularly with regard to its
law enforcement efforts and protection of sex trafficking victims;
in addition, Ivoirian law does not prohibit all forms of
trafficking, and Cote d'Ivoire has not ratified the 2000 UN TIP
Protocol (2008)


Illicit drugs:

illicit producer of cannabis, mostly for local consumption; utility
as a narcotic transshipment point to Europe reduced by ongoing
political instability; while rampant corruption and inadequate
supervision leave the banking system vulnerable to money laundering,
the lack of a developed financial system limits the country's
utility as a major money-laundering center



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Croatia

Introduction
Croatia



Background:

The lands that today comprise Croatia were part of the
Austro-Hungarian Empire until the close of World War I. In 1918, the
Croats, Serbs, and Slovenes formed a kingdom known after 1929 as
Yugoslavia. Following World War II, Yugoslavia became a federal
independent Communist state under the strong hand of Marshal TITO.
Although Croatia declared its independence from Yugoslavia in 1991,
it took four years of sporadic, but often bitter, fighting before
occupying Serb armies were mostly cleared from Croatian lands. Under
UN supervision, the last Serb-held enclave in eastern Slavonia was
returned to Croatia in 1998.


Geography
Croatia



Location:

Southeastern Europe, bordering the Adriatic Sea, between Bosnia and
Herzegovina and Slovenia


Geographic coordinates:

45 10 N, 15 30 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 56,542 sq km
land: 56,414 sq km
water: 128 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than West Virginia


Land boundaries:

total: 1,982 km
border countries: Bosnia and Herzegovina 932 km, Hungary 329 km,
Serbia 241 km, Montenegro 25 km, Slovenia 455 km


Coastline:

5,835 km (mainland 1,777 km, islands 4,058 km)


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation


Climate:

Mediterranean and continental; continental climate predominant with
hot summers and cold winters; mild winters, dry summers along coast


Terrain:

geographically diverse; flat plains along Hungarian border, low
mountains and highlands near Adriatic coastline and islands


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Adriatic Sea 0 m
highest point: Dinara 1,830 m


Natural resources:

oil, some coal, bauxite, low-grade iron ore, calcium, gypsum,
natural asphalt, silica, mica, clays, salt, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 25.82%
permanent crops: 2.19%
other: 71.99% (2005)


Irrigated land:

110 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

105.5 cu km (1998)


Natural hazards:

destructive earthquakes


Environment - current issues:

air pollution (from metallurgical plants) and resulting acid rain is
damaging the forests; coastal pollution from industrial and domestic
waste; landmine removal and reconstruction of infrastructure
consequent to 1992-95 civil strife


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants


Geography - note:

controls most land routes from Western Europe to Aegean Sea and
Turkish Straits; most Adriatic Sea islands lie off the coast of
Croatia - some 1,200 islands, islets, ridges, and rocks


People
Croatia



Population:

4,491,543 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 15.8% (male 363,551/female 345,132)
15-64 years: 67.2% (male 1,501,949/female 1,517,962)
65 years and over: 17% (male 295,229/female 467,720) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 40.8 years
male: 38.9 years
female: 42.6 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

-0.043% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

9.64 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

11.66 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

1.58 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.63 male(s)/female
total population: 0.93 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 6.49 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 6.51 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 6.46 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 75.13 years
male: 71.49 years
female: 78.97 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.41 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

less than 0.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

200 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 10 (2001 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: intermediate
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A
vectorborne diseases: tickborne encephalitis
note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Croat(s), Croatian(s)
adjective: Croatian


Ethnic groups:

Croat 89.6%, Serb 4.5%, other 5.9% (including Bosniak, Hungarian,
Slovene, Czech, and Roma) (2001 census)


Religions:

Roman Catholic 87.8%, Orthodox 4.4%, other Christian 0.4%, Muslim
1.3%, other and unspecified 0.9%, none 5.2% (2001 census)


Languages:

Croatian 96.1%, Serbian 1%, other and undesignated 2.9% (including
Italian, Hungarian, Czech, Slovak, and German) (2001 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 98.1%
male: 99.3%
female: 97.1% (2001 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 14 years
male: 13 years
female: 14 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

4.5% of GDP (2004)


Government
Croatia



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Croatia
conventional short form: Croatia
local long form: Republika Hrvatska
local short form: Hrvatska
former: People's Republic of Croatia, Socialist Republic of Croatia


Government type:

presidential/parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Zagreb
geographic coordinates: 45 48 N, 16 00 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

20 counties (zupanije, zupanija - singular) and 1 city* (grad -
singular); Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska, Brodsko-Posavska,
Dubrovacko-Neretvanska (Dubrovnik-Neretva), Istarska (Istria),
Karlovacka, Koprivnicko-Krizevacka, Krapinsko-Zagorska,
Licko-Senjska (Lika-Senj), Medimurska, Osjecko-Baranjska,
Pozesko-Slavonska (Pozega-Slavonia), Primorsko-Goranska,
Sibensko-Kninska, Sisacko-Moslavacka, Splitsko-Dalmatinska
(Split-Dalmatia), Varazdinska, Viroviticko-Podravska,
Vukovarsko-Srijemska, Zadarska, Zagreb*, Zagrebacka


Independence:

25 June 1991 (from Yugoslavia)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 8 October (1991); note - 25 June 1991 was the day
the Croatian Parliament voted for independence; following a
three-month moratorium to allow the European Community to solve the
Yugoslav crisis peacefully, Parliament adopted a decision on 8
October 1991 to sever constitutional relations with Yugoslavia


Constitution:

adopted on 22 December 1990; revised 2000, 2001


Legal system:

based on Austro-Hungarian law system with Communist law influences;
has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal (16 years of age, if employed)


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Stjepan (Stipe) MESIC (since 18 February
2000)
head of government: Prime Minister Ivo SANADER (since 9 December
2003); Deputy Prime Ministers Jadranka KOSOR (since 23 December
2003) and Damir POLANCEC (since 15 February 2005), Djurdja ADLESIC
(since 12 January 2008), Slobodan UZELAC (since 12 January 2008)
cabinet: Council of Ministers named by the prime minister and
approved by the parliamentary Assembly
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 16 January 2005
(next to be held in January 2010); the leader of the majority party
or the leader of the majority coalition is usually appointed prime
minister by the president and then approved by the Assembly
election results: Stjepan MESIC reelected president; percent of vote
- Stjepan MESIC 66%, Jadranka KOSOR 34% in the second round


Legislative branch:

unicameral Assembly or Sabor (153 seats; members elected from party
lists by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 25 November 2007 (next to be held in November
2011)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; number of seats by
party - HDZ 66, SDP 56, HNS 7, HSS 6, HDSSB 3, IDS 3, SDSS 3, other 9


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court; Constitutional Court; judges for both courts
appointed for eight-year terms by the Judicial Council of the
Republic, which is elected by the Assembly


Political parties and leaders:

Croatian Democratic Congress of Slavonia and Baranja or HDSSB
[Vladimir SISLJAGIC]; Croatian Democratic Union or HDZ [Ivo
SANADER]; Croatian Party of the Right or HSP [Anto DJAPIC]; Croatian
Peasant Party or HSS [Josip FRISCIC]; Croatian Pensioner Party or
HSU [Vladimir JORDAN]; Croatian People's Party or HNS [Vesna PUSIC];
Croatian Social Liberal Party or HSLS [Djurdja ADLESIC]; Independent
Democratic Serb Party or SDSS [Vojislav STANIMIROVIC]; Istrian
Democratic Assembly or IDS [Ivan JAKOVCIC]; Social Democratic Party
of Croatia or SDP [Zoran MILANOVIC]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

other: human rights groups


International organization participation:

ACCT (observer), Australia Group, BIS, BSEC (observer), CE, CEI,
EAPC, EBRD, FAO, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD,
IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO,
ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURSO, MINUSTAH, NAM (observer), NSG, OAS
(observer), OIF (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PCA, PFP, SECI, UN, UN
Security Council (temporary), UNCTAD, UNDOF, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNIDO,
UNIFIL, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNMOGIP, UNOCI, UNOMIG, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU,
WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Kolinda GRABAR-KITAROVIC
chancery: 2343 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 588-5899
FAX: [1] (202) 588-8936
consulate(s) general: Chicago, Los Angeles, New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Robert A. BRADTKE
embassy: 2 Thomas Jefferson Street, 10010 Zagreb
mailing address: use street address
telephone: [385] (1) 661-2200
FAX: [385] (1) 661-2373


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and blue
superimposed by the Croatian coat of arms (red and white checkered)


Economy
Croatia



Economy - overview:

Once one of the wealthiest of the Yugoslav republics, Croatia's
economy suffered badly during the 1991-95 war as output collapsed
and the country missed the early waves of investment in Central and
Eastern Europe that followed the fall of the Berlin Wall. Since
2000, however, Croatia's economic fortunes have begun to improve
slowly, with moderate but steady GDP growth between 4% and 6% led by
a rebound in tourism and credit-driven consumer spending. Inflation
over the same period has remained tame and the currency, the kuna,
stable. Nevertheless, difficult problems still remain, including a
stubbornly high unemployment rate, a growing trade deficit and
uneven regional development. The state retains a large role in the
economy, as privatization efforts often meet stiff public and
political resistance. While macroeconomic stabilization has largely
been achieved, structural reforms lag because of deep resistance on
the part of the public and lack of strong support from politicians.
The EU accession process should accelerate fiscal and structural
reform.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$69.59 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$51.36 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

5.7% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$15,500 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 7.2%
industry: 31.7%
services: 61.2% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

1.749 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 2.7%
industry: 32.8%
services: 64.5% (2004)


Unemployment rate:

11.8% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

11% (2003)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 3.4%
highest 10%: 24.5% (2003 est.)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

29 (2001)


Investment (gross fixed):

30.1% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $22.56 billion
expenditures: $23.92 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

47.8% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

4.5% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

9% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

9.33% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$11.61 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$31.86 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$45.7 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

wheat, corn, sugar beets, sunflower seed, barley, alfalfa, clover,
olives, citrus, grapes, soybeans, potatoes; livestock, dairy products


Industries:

chemicals and plastics, machine tools, fabricated metal,
electronics, pig iron and rolled steel products, aluminum, paper,
wood products, construction materials, textiles, shipbuilding,
petroleum and petroleum refining, food and beverages, tourism


Industrial production growth rate:

5.3% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

12.41 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

15.57 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

3.306 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - imports:

8.374 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 33.6%
hydro: 66%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0.4% (2001)


Oil - production:

23,620 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

101,800 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

43,680 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

112,200 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

79.15 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

1.58 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

2.73 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

1.103 billion cu m (2005)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

28.54 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$4.85 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$12.62 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

transport equipment, textiles, chemicals, foodstuffs, fuels


Exports - partners:

Italy 19.3%, Bosnia and Herzegovina 13.9%, Germany 10.2%, Slovenia
8.4%, Austria 6.2% (2007)


Imports:

$25.99 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery, transport and electrical equipment; chemicals, fuels and
lubricants; foodstuffs


Imports - partners:

Italy 16.1%, Germany 14.4%, Russia 10.1%, China 6.2%, Slovenia 6%,
Austria 5.3% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

ODA, $125.4 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$13.67 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$46.3 billion (30 June 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$23.13 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$3.161 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$29.01 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

kuna (HRK)


Currency code:

HRK


Exchange rates:

kuna (HRK) per US dollar - 5.3735 (2007), 5.8625 (2006), 5.9473
(2005), 6.0358 (2004), 6.7035 (2003)


Communications
Croatia



Telephones - main lines in use:

1.825 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

5.035 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: the telecommunications network has improved
steadily since the mid-1990s; the number of fixed telephone lines
holding steady at about 40 per 100 persons; the number of cellular
telephone subscriptions exceeds the population
domestic: more than 90 percent of local lines are digital
international: country code - 385; digital international service is
provided through the main switch in Zagreb; Croatia participates in
the Trans-Asia-Europe (TEL) fiber-optic project, which consists of 2
fiber-optic trunk connections with Slovenia and a fiber-optic trunk
line from Rijeka to Split and Dubrovnik; the ADRIA-1 submarine cable
provides connectivity to Albania and Greece (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 16, FM 98, shortwave 5 (1999)


Radios:

1.51 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

36 (plus 321 repeaters) (1995)


Televisions:

1.22 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.hr


Internet hosts:

1.111 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

9 (2000)


Internet users:

1.995 million (2007)


Transportation
Croatia



Airports:

68 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 23
over 3,047 m: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 6
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 4
under 914 m: 9 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 45
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 7
under 914 m: 37 (2007)


Heliports:

2 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 1,556 km; oil 583 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 2,726 km
standard gauge: 2,726 km 1.435-m gauge (1,199 km electrified) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 28,788 km (includes 877 km of expressways) (2006)


Waterways:

785 km (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 80
by type: bulk carrier 25, cargo 11, chemical tanker 3,
passenger/cargo 30, petroleum tanker 8, refrigerated cargo 1, roll
on/roll off 2
registered in other countries: 30 (Bahamas 1, Belize 2, Liberia 2,
Malta 9, Marshall Islands 6, Panama 3, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines 7) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Omisalj, Ploce, Rijeka, Sibenik, Vukovar (on Danube)


Military
Croatia



Military branches:

Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia (Oruzane Snage Republike
Hrvatske, OSRH), consists of five major commands directly
subordinate to a General Staff: Ground Forces (Hrvatska Kopnena
Vojska, HKoV), Naval Forces (Hrvatska Ratna Mornarica, HRM), Air
Force (Hrvatsko Ratno Zrakoplovstvo, HRZ), Joint Education and
Training Command, Logistics Command; Military Police Force supports
each of the three Croatian military forces (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18-27 years of age for compulsory military service; 16 years of age
with consent for voluntary service; 6-month conscript service
obligation; full conversion to professional military service by 2010
(2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,035,712
females age 16-49: 1,037,896 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 771,323
females age 16-49: 855,937 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 27,500
female: 25,893 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

2.39% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Croatia



Disputes - international:

dispute remains with Bosnia and Herzegovina over several small
disputed sections of the boundary related to maritime access that
hinders ratification of the 1999 border agreement; the
Croatia-Slovenia land and maritime boundary agreement, which would
have ceded most of Pirin Bay and maritime access to Slovenia and
several villages to Croatia, remains un-ratified and in dispute;
Slovenia also protests Croatia's 2003 claim to an exclusive economic
zone in the Adriatic; as a European Union peripheral state, Slovenia
imposed a hard border Schengen regime with non-member Croatia in
December 2007


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

IDPs: 2,900-7,000 (Croats and Serbs displaced in 1992-95 war) (2007)


Illicit drugs:

transit point along the Balkan route for Southwest Asian heroin to
Western Europe; has been used as a transit point for maritime
shipments of South American cocaine bound for Western Europe



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Cuba

Introduction
Cuba



Background:

The native Amerindian population of Cuba began to decline after the
European discovery of the island by Christopher COLUMBUS in 1492 and
following its development as a Spanish colony during the next
several centuries. Large numbers of African slaves were imported to
work the coffee and sugar plantations, and Havana became the
launching point for the annual treasure fleets bound for Spain from
Mexico and Peru. Spanish rule, marked initially by neglect, became
increasingly repressive, provoking an independence movement and
occasional rebellions that were harshly suppressed. It was US
intervention during the Spanish-American War in 1898 that finally
overthrew Spanish rule. The subsequent Treaty of Paris established
Cuban independence, which was granted in 1902 after a three-year
transition period. Fidel CASTRO led a rebel army to victory in 1959;
his iron rule held the subsequent regime together for nearly five
decades. He stepped down as president in February 2008 in favor of
his younger brother Raul CASTRO. Cuba's Communist revolution, with
Soviet support, was exported throughout Latin America and Africa
during the 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s. The country is now slowly
recovering from a severe economic downturn in 1990, following the
withdrawal of former Soviet subsidies, worth $4 billion to $6
billion annually. Cuba portrays its difficulties as the result of
the US embargo in place since 1961. Illicit migration to the US -
using homemade rafts, alien smugglers, air flights, or via the
southwest border - is a continuing problem. The US Coast Guard
intercepted 2,864 individuals attempting to cross the Straits of
Florida in fiscal year 2006.


Geography
Cuba



Location:

Caribbean, island between the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic
Ocean, 150 km south of Key West, Florida


Geographic coordinates:

21 30 N, 80 00 W


Map references:

Central America and the Caribbean


Area:

total: 110,860 sq km
land: 110,860 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Pennsylvania


Land boundaries:

total: 29 km
border countries: US Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay 29 km
note: Guantanamo Naval Base is leased by the US and remains part of
Cuba


Coastline:

3,735 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; moderated by trade winds; dry season (November to April);
rainy season (May to October)


Terrain:

mostly flat to rolling plains, with rugged hills and mountains in
the southeast


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
highest point: Pico Turquino 2,005 m


Natural resources:

cobalt, nickel, iron ore, chromium, copper, salt, timber, silica,
petroleum, arable land


Land use:

arable land: 27.63%
permanent crops: 6.54%
other: 65.83% (2005)


Irrigated land:

8,700 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

38.1 cu km (2000)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 8.2 cu km/yr (19%/12%/69%)
per capita: 728 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

the east coast is subject to hurricanes from August to November (in
general, the country averages about one hurricane every other year);
droughts are common


Environment - current issues:

air and water pollution; biodiversity loss; deforestation


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Marine Life Conservation


Geography - note:

largest country in Caribbean and westernmost island of the Greater
Antilles


People
Cuba



Population:

11,423,952 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 18.5% (male 1,088,311/female 1,030,499)
15-64 years: 70.5% (male 4,029,381/female 4,025,154)
65 years and over: 10.9% (male 569,002/female 681,605) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 36.8 years
male: 36.1 years
female: 37.5 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.251% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

11.27 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

7.19 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-1.57 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.84 male(s)/female
total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 5.93 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 6.64 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 5.17 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 77.27 years
male: 75.02 years
female: 79.64 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.6 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

less than 0.1% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

3,300 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 200 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: intermediate
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A
vectorborne diseases: dengue fever (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Cuban(s)
adjective: Cuban


Ethnic groups:

white 65.1%, mulatto and mestizo 24.8%, black 10.1% (2002 census)


Religions:

nominally 85% Roman Catholic prior to CASTRO assuming power;
Protestants, Jehovah's Witnesses, Jews, and Santeria are also
represented


Languages:

Spanish


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99.8%
male: 99.8%
female: 99.8% (2002 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 16 years
male: 15 years
female: 17 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

9.1% of GDP (2006)


People - note:

illicit emigration is a continuing problem; Cubans attempt to depart
the island and enter the US using homemade rafts, alien smugglers,
direct flights, or falsified visas; Cubans also use non-maritime
routes to enter the US including direct flights to Miami and
over-land via the southwest border


Government
Cuba



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Cuba
conventional short form: Cuba
local long form: Republica de Cuba
local short form: Cuba


Government type:

Communist state


Capital:

name: Havana
geographic coordinates: 23 07 N, 82 21 W
time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard
Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

14 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia) and 1 special
municipality* (municipio especial); Camaguey, Ciego de Avila,
Cienfuegos, Ciudad de La Habana, Granma, Guantanamo, Holguin, Isla
de la Juventud*, La Habana, Las Tunas, Matanzas, Pinar del Rio,
Sancti Spiritus, Santiago de Cuba, Villa Clara


Independence:

20 May 1902 (from Spain 10 December 1898; administered by the US
from 1898 to 1902); not acknowledged by the Cuban Government as a
day of independence


National holiday:

Triumph of the Revolution, 1 January (1959)


Constitution:

24 February 1976; amended July 1992 and June 2002


Legal system:

based on Spanish civil law and influenced by American legal
concepts, with large elements of Communist legal theory; has not
accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

16 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President of the Council of State and President of
the Council of Ministers Gen. Raul CASTRO Ruz (president since 24
February 2008); First Vice President of the Council of State and
First Vice President of the Council of Ministers Gen. Jose Ramon
MACHADO Ventura (since 24 February 2008); note - the president is
both the chief of state and head of government
head of government: President of the Council of State and President
of the Council of Ministers Gen. Raul CASTRO Ruz (president since 24
February 2008); First Vice President of the Council of State and
First Vice President of the Council of Ministers Gen. Jose Ramon
MACHADO Ventura (since 24 February 2008)
cabinet: Council of Ministers proposed by the president of the
Council of State and appointed by the National Assembly or the
31-member Council of State, elected by the Assembly to act on its
behalf when it is not in session
elections: president and vice presidents elected by the National
Assembly for a term of five years; election last held 24 February
2008 (next to be held in 2013)
election results: Gen. Raul CASTRO Ruz elected president; percent of
legislative vote - 100%; Gen. Jose Ramon MACHADO Ventura elected
vice president; percent of legislative vote - 100%


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly of People's Power or Asemblea Nacional
del Poder Popular (number of seats in the National Assembly is based
on population; 614 seats; members elected directly from slates
approved by special candidacy commissions to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held 20 January 2008 (next to be held in January
2013)
election results: Cuba's Communist Party is the only legal party,
and officially sanctioned candidates run unopposed


Judicial branch:

People's Supreme Court or Tribunal Supremo Popular (president, vice
president, and other judges are elected by the National Assembly)


Political parties and leaders:

Cuban Communist Party or PCC [Fidel CASTRO Ruz, first secretary]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Human Rights Watch; National Association of Small Farmers


International organization participation:

ACP, FAO, G-77, IAEA, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IFAD, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMO,
IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, LAES,
LAIA, NAM, OAS (excluded from formal participation since 1962),
OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNITAR,
UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none; note - Cuba has an Interests Section in the Swiss Embassy,
headed by Principal Officer Jorge BOLANOS Suarez; address: Cuban
Interests Section, Swiss Embassy, 2630 16th Street NW, Washington,
DC 20009; telephone: [1] (202) 797-8518; FAX: [1] (202) 797-8521


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none; note - the US has an Interests Section in the Swiss Embassy,
headed by Chief of Mission Jonathan D. FARRAR; address: USINT, Swiss
Embassy, Calzada between L and M Streets, Vedado, Havana; telephone:
[53] (7) 833-3551 through 3559 (operator assistance required); FAX:
[53] (7) 833-1653; protecting power in Cuba is Switzerland


Flag description:

five equal horizontal bands of blue (top, center, and bottom)
alternating with white; a red equilateral triangle based on the
hoist side bears a white, five-pointed star in the center


Economy
Cuba



Economy - overview:

The government continues to balance the need for economic loosening
against a desire for firm political control. It has rolled back
limited reforms undertaken in the 1990s to increase enterprise
efficiency and alleviate serious shortages of food, consumer goods,
and services. The average Cuban's standard of living remains at a
lower level than before the downturn of the 1990s, which was caused
by the loss of Soviet aid and domestic inefficiencies. Since late
2000, Venezuela has been providing oil on preferential terms, and it
currently supplies about 100,000 barrels per day of petroleum
products. Cuba has been paying for the oil, in part, with the
services of Cuban personnel in Venezuela, including some 20,000
medical professionals. In 2007, high metals prices continued to
boost Cuban earnings from nickel and cobalt production. Havana
continued to invest in the country's energy sector to mitigate
electrical blackouts that had plagued the country since 2004.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$125.5 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$45.58 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6.5% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$11,000 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 5.2%
industry: 25%
services: 69.8% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

4.956 million
note: state sector 78%, non-state sector 22% (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 20%
industry: 19.4%
services: 60.6% (2005)


Unemployment rate:

1.8% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Investment (gross fixed):

13.1% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $41.84 billion
expenditures: $43.9 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

36.8% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

3.1% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

NA


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

NA


Stock of money:

NA


Stock of quasi money:

NA


Stock of domestic credit:

NA


Agriculture - products:

sugar, tobacco, citrus, coffee, rice, potatoes, beans; livestock


Industries:

sugar, petroleum, tobacco, construction, nickel, steel, cement,
agricultural machinery, pharmaceuticals


Industrial production growth rate:

2.5% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

16.97 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

14.02 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 93.9%
hydro: 0.6%
nuclear: 0%
other: 5.4% (2001)


Oil - production:

61,300 bbl/day (2008 est.)


Oil - consumption:

203,500 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2006)


Oil - imports:

123,200 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

124 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

1.058 billion cu m (2006)


Natural gas - consumption:

1.058 billion cu m (2006)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

70.79 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$240 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$3.734 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

sugar, nickel, tobacco, fish, medical products, citrus, coffee


Exports - partners:

China 27.5%, Canada 26.9%, Netherlands 11.1%, Spain 4.7% (2007)


Imports:

$10.08 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

petroleum, food, machinery and equipment, chemicals


Imports - partners:

Venezuela 29.6%, China 13.4%, Spain 10.4%, Canada 6%, US 5.1% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$87.8 million (2005 est.)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$4.247 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$16.79 billion (convertible currency); another $15-20 billion owed
to Russia (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$11.24 billion (2006 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$4.138 billion (2006 est.)


Currency (code):

Cuban peso (CUP) and Convertible peso (CUC)


Currency code:

CUP (nonconvertible Cuban peso) and CUC (convertible Cuban peso)


Exchange rates:

Cuban pesos (CUP) per US dollar - 0.9259 (2007), 0.9231 (2006)
note: Cuba has two currencies in circulation: the Cuban peso (CUP)
and the convertible peso (CUC); in April 2005 the official exchange
rate changed from $1 per CUC to $1.08 per CUC (0.93 CUC per $1),
both for individuals and enterprises; individuals can buy 24 Cuban
pesos (CUP) for each CUC sold, or sell 25 Cuban pesos for each CUC
bought; enterprises, however, must exchange CUP and CUC at a 1:1
ratio.


Communications
Cuba



Telephones - main lines in use:

1.043 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

198,300 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: greater investment beginning in 1994 and the
establishment of a new Ministry of Information Technology and
Communications in 2000 has resulted in improvements in the system;
wireless service is expensive and must be paid in convertible pesos
which effectively limits mobile cellular subscribership
domestic: national fiber-optic system under development; 95% of
switches digitized by end of 2006; fixed telephone line density
remains low, at less than 10 per 100 inhabitants; domestic cellular
service expanding but remains at only about 2 per 100 persons
international: country code - 53; fiber-optic cable laid to but not
linked to US network; satellite earth station - 1 Intersputnik
(Atlantic Ocean region) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 169, FM 55, shortwave 1 (1998)


Radios:

3.9 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

58 (1997)


Televisions:

2.64 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.cu


Internet hosts:

3,664 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

5 (2001)


Internet users:

1.31 million
note: private citizens are prohibited from buying computers or
accessing the Internet without special authorization; foreigners may
access the Internet in large hotels but are subject to firewalls;
some Cubans buy illegal passwords on the black market or take
advantage of public outlets to access limited email and the
government-controlled "intranet" (2007)


Transportation
Cuba



Airports:

165 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 70
over 3,047 m: 7
2,438 to 3,047 m: 9
1,524 to 2,437 m: 18
914 to 1,523 m: 5
under 914 m: 31 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 95
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 23
under 914 m: 71 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 49 km; oil 230 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 4,226 km
standard gauge: 4,226 km 1.435-m gauge (140 km electrified)
note: an additional 7,742 km of track is used by sugar plantations;
about 65% of this track is standard gauge; the rest is narrow gauge
(2006)


Roadways:

total: 60,858 km
paved: 29,820 km (includes 638 km of expressway)
unpaved: 31,038 km (2000)


Waterways:

240 km (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 11
by type: bulk carrier 2, cargo 3, passenger 1, petroleum tanker 3,
refrigerated cargo 2
foreign-owned: 1 (Spain 1)
registered in other countries: 13 (Bahamas 1, Cyprus 1, Netherlands
Antilles 1, Panama 10) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Cienfuegos, Havana, Matanzas


Military
Cuba



Military branches:

Revolutionary Armed Forces (Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias, FAR):
Revolutionary Army (ER; includes Territorial Militia Troops, MTT),
Revolutionary Navy (Marina de Guerra Revolucionaria, MGR; includes
Marine Corps), Revolutionary Air and Air Defense Force (DAAFAR),
Youth Labor Army (EJT) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

17-28 years of age for compulsory military service; 2-year service
obligation; both sexes subject to military service (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 3,094,388
females age 16-49: 3,024,876 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,543,044
females age 16-49: 2,481,823 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 79,945
female: 76,014 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

3.8% of GDP (2006 est.)


Military - note:

the collapse of the Soviet Union deprived the Cuban Army of its
major economic and logistic support, and had a significant impact on
equipment numbers and serviceability; the army remains well trained
and professional in nature; while the lack of replacement parts for
its existing equipment and the current severe shortage of fuel have
increasingly affected operational capabilities, Cuba remains able to
offer considerable resistance to any regional power (2008)


Transnational Issues
Cuba



Disputes - international:

US Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay is leased to US and only mutual
agreement or US abandonment of the facility can terminate the lease


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Cuba is principally a source country for women
and children trafficked within the country for the purpose of
commercial sexual exploitation and possibly for forced labor; the
country is a destination for sex tourism, including child sex
tourism, which is a problem in many areas of the country; some Cuban
nationals willingly migrate to the United States, but are
subsequently exploited for forced labor by their smugglers; Cuba is
also a transit point for the smuggling of migrants from China, Sri
Lanka, Bangladesh, Lebanon, and other nations to the United States
and Canada
tier rating: Tier 3 - Cuba does not fully comply with the minimum
standards for the elimination of trafficking and is not making
significant efforts to do so; exact information about trafficking in
Cuba is difficult to obtain because the government does not
acknowledge or condemn human trafficking as a problem in Cuba;
tangible efforts to prosecute offenders, protect victims, or prevent
human trafficking activity do not appear to have been made during
2007; Cuba has not ratified the 2000 UN TIP Protocol (2008)


Illicit drugs:

territorial waters and air space serve as transshipment zone for US-
and European-bound drugs; established the death penalty for certain
drug-related crimes in 1999



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Cyprus

Introduction
Cyprus



Background:

A former British colony, Cyprus became independent in 1960 following
years of resistance to British rule. Tensions between the Greek
Cypriot majority and Turkish Cypriot minority came to a head in
December 1963, when violence broke out in the capital of Nicosia.
Despite the deployment of UN peacekeepers in 1964, sporadic
intercommunal violence continued forcing most Turkish Cypriots into
enclaves throughout the island. In 1974, a Greek
Government-sponsored attempt to seize control of Cyprus was met by
military intervention from Turkey, which soon controlled more than a
third of the island. In 1983, the Turkish-held area declared itself
the "Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus" (TRNC), but it is
recognized only by Turkey. The latest two-year round of UN-brokered
talks - between the leaders of the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot
communities to reach an agreement to reunite the divided island -
ended when the Greek Cypriots rejected the UN settlement plan in an
April 2004 referendum. The entire island entered the EU on 1 May
2004, although the EU acquis - the body of common rights and
obligations - applies only to the areas under direct government
control, and is suspended in the areas administered by Turkish
Cypriots. However, individual Turkish Cypriots able to document
their eligibility for Republic of Cyprus citizenship legally enjoy
the same rights accorded to other citizens of European Union states.
The election of a new Cypriot president in 2008 served as the
impetus for the UN to encourage both the Turkish and Cypriot
Governments to reopen unification negotiations.


Geography
Cyprus



Location:

Middle East, island in the Mediterranean Sea, south of Turkey


Geographic coordinates:

35 00 N, 33 00 E


Map references:

Middle East


Area:

total: 9,250 sq km (of which 3,355 sq km are in north Cyprus)
land: 9,240 sq km
water: 10 sq km


Area - comparative:

about 0.6 times the size of Connecticut


Land boundaries:

total: 150.4 km (approximately)
border sovereign base areas: Akrotiri 47.4 km, Dhekelia 103 km
(approximately)


Coastline:

648 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation


Climate:

temperate; Mediterranean with hot, dry summers and cool winters


Terrain:

central plain with mountains to north and south; scattered but
significant plains along southern coast


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Mediterranean Sea 0 m
highest point: Mount Olympus 1,951 m


Natural resources:

copper, pyrites, asbestos, gypsum, timber, salt, marble, clay earth
pigment


Land use:

arable land: 10.81%
permanent crops: 4.32%
other: 84.87% (2005)


Irrigated land:

400 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

0.4 cu km (2005)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.21 cu km/yr (27%/1%/71%)
per capita: 250 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

moderate earthquake activity; droughts


Environment - current issues:

water resource problems (no natural reservoir catchments, seasonal
disparity in rainfall, sea water intrusion to island's largest
aquifer, increased salination in the north); water pollution from
sewage and industrial wastes; coastal degradation; loss of wildlife
habitats from urbanization


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

the third largest island in the Mediterranean Sea (after Sicily and
Sardinia)


People
Cyprus



Population:

792,604 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 19.5% (male 78,922/female 75,523)
15-64 years: 68.5% (male 275,223/female 267,798)
65 years and over: 12% (male 41,592/female 53,546) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 35.3 years
male: 34.3 years
female: 36.4 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.522% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

12.56 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

7.76 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

0.42 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.78 male(s)/female
total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 6.75 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 8.34 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 5.07 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 78.15 years
male: 75.75 years
female: 80.67 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.79 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.1% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

fewer than 1,000 (1999 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Cypriot(s)
adjective: Cypriot


Ethnic groups:

Greek 77%, Turkish 18%, other 5% (2001)


Religions:

Greek Orthodox 78%, Muslim 18%, other (includes Maronite and
Armenian Apostolic) 4%


Languages:

Greek, Turkish, English


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 97.6%
male: 98.9%
female: 96.3% (2001 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 14 years
male: 13 years
female: 14 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

6.3% of GDP (2004)


Government
Cyprus



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Cyprus
conventional short form: Cyprus
local long form: Kypriaki Dimokratia/Kibris Cumhuriyeti
local short form: Kypros/Kibris
note: the Turkish Cypriot community, which administers the northern
part of the island, refers to itself as the "Turkish Republic of
Northern Cyprus" (TRNC)


Government type:

republic
note: a separation of the two ethnic communities inhabiting the
island began following the outbreak of communal strife in 1963; this
separation was further solidified after the Turkish intervention in
July 1974 that followed a Greek junta-supported coup attempt gave
the Turkish Cypriots de facto control in the north; Greek Cypriots
control the only internationally recognized government; on 15
November 1983 Turkish Cypriot "President" Rauf DENKTASH declared
independence and the formation of a "Turkish Republic of Northern
Cyprus" (TRNC), which is recognized only by Turkey


Capital:

name: Nicosia (Lefkosia)
geographic coordinates: 35 10 N, 33 22 E
time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

6 districts; Famagusta, Kyrenia, Larnaca, Limassol, Nicosia, Paphos;
note - Turkish Cypriot area's administrative divisions include
Kyrenia, all but a small part of Famagusta, and small parts of
Lefkosia (Nicosia)


Independence:

16 August 1960 (from UK); note - Turkish Cypriots proclaimed
self-rule on 13 February 1975 and independence in 1983, but these
proclamations are only recognized by Turkey


National holiday:

Independence Day, 1 October (1960); note - Turkish Cypriots
celebrate 15 November (1983) as Independence Day


Constitution:

16 August 1960
note: from December 1963, the Turkish Cypriots no longer
participated in the government; negotiations to create the basis for
a new or revised constitution to govern the island and for better
relations between Greek and Turkish Cypriots have been held
intermittently since the mid-1960s; in 1975, following the 1974
Turkish intervention, Turkish Cypriots created their own
constitution and governing bodies within the "Turkish Federated
State of Cyprus," which became the "Turkish Republic of Northern
Cyprus (TRNC)" when the Turkish Cypriots declared their independence
in 1983; a new constitution for the "TRNC" passed by referendum on 5
May 1985, although the "TRNC" remains unrecognized by any country
other than Turkey


Legal system:

based on English common law, with civil law modifications; accepts
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Dimitris CHRISTOFIAS (since 28 February
2008); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government; post of vice president is currently vacant; under the
1960 constitution, the post is reserved for a Turkish Cypriot
head of government: President Dimitris CHRISTOFIAS (since 28
February 2008)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed jointly by the president and
vice president
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election last held 17 and 24 February 2008 (next to be held in
February 2013)
election results: Dimitris CHRISTOFIAS elected president; percent of
vote (first round) - Ioannis KASOULIDIS 33.5%, Dimitris CHRISTOFIAS
33.3%, Tassos PAPADOPOULOS 31.8%; (second round) Dimitris
CHRISTOFIAS 53.4%, Ioannis KASOULIDIS 46.6%
note: Mehmet Ali TALAT became "president" of the "TRNC", 24 April
2005, after "presidential" elections on 17 April 2005; results -
Mehmet Ali TALAT 55.6%, Dervis EROGLU 22.7%; Ferdi Sabit SOYER is
"TRNC prime minister" and heads the Council of Ministers (cabinet)
in coalition with "Foreign Minister and Deputy Prime Minister"
Turgay AVCI


Legislative branch:

unicameral - area under government control: House of Representatives
or Vouli Antiprosopon (80 seats, 56 assigned to the Greek Cypriots,
24 to Turkish Cypriots; note - only those assigned to Greek Cypriots
are filled; members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year
terms); area administered by Turkish Cypriots: Assembly of the
Republic or Cumhuriyet Meclisi (50 seats; members are elected by
popular vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: area under government control: last held 21 May 2006
(next to be held 2011); area administered by Turkish Cypriots: last
held 14 December 2003 (next to be held in 2008)
election results: area under government control: House of
Representatives - percent of vote by party - AKEL 31.1%, DISY 30.3%,
DIKO 17.9%, EDEK 8.9%, EURO.KO 5.8%, Greens 2.0%; seats by party -
AKEL (Communist) 18, DISY 18, DIKO 11, EDEK 5, EURO.KO 3, Greens 1;
area administered by Turkish Cypriots: Assembly of the Republic -
percent of vote by party - CTP 35.8%, UBP 32.3%, Peace and
Democratic Movement 13.4%, DP 12.3%; seats by party - CTP 19, UBP
18, Peace and Democratic Movement 6, DP 7; note - "TRNC" seats by
party as of September 2006 - CTP 25, OP 3, UBP 13, DP 6, BDH 1,
independents 2


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (judges are appointed jointly by the president and
vice president)
note: there is also a Supreme Court in the area administered by
Turkish Cypriots


Political parties and leaders:

area under government control: Democratic Party or DIKO [Marios
KAROYIAN]; Democratic Rally or DISY [Nikos ANASTASIADHIS]; European
Democracy or EURO.DI [Prodromos PRODROMOU] (evolved from For Europe
which merged with New Horizons); European Party or EURO.KO [Demetris
SYLLOURIS]; Fighting Democratic Movement or ADIK [Dinos
MIKHAILIDIS]; Green Party of Cyprus [George PERDIKIS]; Movement for
Social Democrats or EDEK [Yannakis OMIROU]; Political Movement of
Hunters [Michalis PAFITANIS]; Progressive Party of the Working
People or AKEL (Communist Party) [Dimitris CHRISTOFIAS]; United
Democrats or EDI [Michalis PAPAPETROU]
area administered by Turkish Cypriots: Communal Liberation Party or
TKP [Huseyin ANGOLEMLI]; Cyprus Socialist Party or KSP [Kazim
ONGEN]; Democratic Party or DP [Serder DENKTASH]; Freedom and Reform
Party or OP [Turgay AVCI]; National Unity Party or UBP [Tahsin
ERTUGRULOGLU]; Nationalist Justice Party or MAP [Ata TEPE]; New
Party or YP [Huseyin TURAN]; Our Party or BP [Okyay SADIKOGLU];
Patriotic Unity Movement or YBH [Oguz OZEN]; Peace and Democratic
Movement or BDH [Mustafa AKINCI]; Renewal Progress Party or YAP
[Ertugrul HASIPOGLU]; Republican Turkish Party or CTP [Ferdi Sabit
SOYER]; United Cyprus Party or BKP [Isset IZCAN]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Confederation of Cypriot Workers or SEK (pro-West); Confederation of
Revolutionary Labor Unions or Dev-Is; Federation of Turkish Cypriot
Labor Unions or Turk-Sen; Pan-Cyprian Labor Federation or PEO
(Communist controlled)


International organization participation:

Australia Group, C, CE, EBRD, EIB, EMU, EU, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICC, ICCt, IFAD, IFC, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM (guest), NSG, OAS (observer),
OIF (associate member), OPCW, OSCE, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR,
UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Andreas KAKOURIS
chancery: 2211 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 462-5772, 462-0873
FAX: [1] (202) 483-6710
consulate(s) general: New York
note: representative of the Turkish Cypriot community in the US is
Hilmi AKIL; office at 1667 K Street NW, Washington, DC; telephone
[1] (202) 887-6198


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Frank C. URBANCIC, Jr.
embassy: corner of Metochiou and Ploutarchou Streets, 2407 Engomi,
Nicosia
mailing address: P. O. Box 24536, 1385 Nicosia
telephone: [357] (22) 393939
FAX: [357] (22) 780944


Flag description:

white with a copper-colored silhouette of the island (the name
Cyprus is derived from the Greek word for copper) above two green
crossed olive branches in the center of the flag; the branches
symbolize the hope for peace and reconciliation between the Greek
and Turkish communities
note: the "Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus" flag has a white
field with narrow horizontal red stripes positioned a small distance
from the top and bottom edges between which is centered a red
crescent and a red five-pointed star


Economy
Cyprus



Economy - overview:

The area of the Republic of Cyprus under government control has a
market economy dominated by the service sector, which accounts for
78% of GDP. Tourism, financial services, and real estate are the
most important sectors. Erratic growth rates over the past decade
reflect the economy's reliance on tourism, which often fluctuates
with political instability in the region and economic conditions in
Western Europe. Nevertheless, the economy in the area under
government control grew by an average of 3.6% per year during the
period of 2000-06, well above the EU average. Cyprus joined the
European Exchange Rate Mechanism (ERM2) in May 2005 and adopted the
euro as its national currency on 1 January 2008. An aggressive
austerity program in the preceding years, aimed at paving the way
for the euro, helped turn a soaring fiscal deficit (6.3% in 2003)
into a surplus of 1.5% in 2007. As in the area administered by
Turkish Cypriots, water shortages are a perennial problem; a few
desalination plants are now on line. After 10 years of drought, the
country received substantial rainfall from 2001-04 alleviating
immediate concerns. Rainfall in 2005 and 2006, however, was well
below average, making water rationing a necessity in 2007.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$21.4 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$21.3 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

4.4% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$27,100 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 2.7%
industry: 19.2%
services: 78% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

393,000 (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 8.5%
industry: 20.5%
services: 71% (2006 est.)


Unemployment rate:

3.9% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

29 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

20.8% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues:: $9.996 billion
expenditures:: $9.304 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

59.6% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.4% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

5% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

6.74% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$4.094 billion
note: see entry for the European Union for money supply in the Euro
Area; the European Central Bank (ECB) controls monetary policy for
the 15 members of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU); individual
members of the EMU do not control the quantity of money and quasi
money circulating within their own borders (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$43.93 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$52.09 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

citrus, vegetables, barley, grapes, olives, vegetables; poultry,
pork, lamb; dairy, cheese


Industries:

tourism, food and beverage processing, cement and gypsum production,
ship repair and refurbishment, textiles, light chemicals, metal
products, wood, paper, stone, and clay products


Industrial production growth rate:

3.8% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

4.52 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

4.151 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2008 est.)


Oil - consumption:

57,830 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

55,970 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

NA


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

NA


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

NA


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006)


Current account balance:

-$2.144 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$1.495 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

citrus, potatoes, pharmaceuticals, cement, and clothing


Exports - partners:

Greece 21.1%, UK 14.3%, Germany 6.6% (2007)


Imports:

$7.84 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

consumer goods, petroleum and lubricants, intermediate goods,
machinery, transport equipment


Imports - partners:

Greece 17.7%, Italy 10.2%, UK 9.6%, Germany 9.4%, Israel 6.5%,
France 5.4%, China 5.3%, Netherlands 4.1% (2007)


Economic aid - donor:

$25.9 million (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$15 million (2006)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$6.507 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$26.97 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$13.36 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$5.419 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$48.2 billion (2005)


Currency (code):

Cypriot pound (CYP); euro (EUR) after 1 January 2008


Currency code:

CYP; TRL


Exchange rates:

Cypriot pounds (CYP) per US dollar -: 0.4286 (2007), 0.4586 (2006),
0.4641 (2005), 0.4686 (2004), 0.5174 (2003)


Economy of the area administered by Turkish Cypriots:

Economy - overview: The Turkish Cypriot economy has roughly 30% of
the per capita GDP of the south, and economic growth tends to be
volatile, given the north's relative isolation, bloated public
sector, reliance on the Turkish lira, and small market size.
Agriculture and services, together, employ more than half of the
work force. The Turkish Cypriot economy grew around 10.6% in 2006,
fueled by growth in the construction and education sectors, as well
as increased employment of Turkish Cypriots in the area under
government control. GDP declined about 2.0% in 2007. The Turkish
Cypriots are heavily dependent on transfers from the Turkish
Government. Ankara directly finances around one-third of the
"TRNC's" budget. Aid from Turkey has exceeded $400 million annually
in recent years.
GDP (purchasing power parity): $1.865 billion (2006 est.)
GDP - real growth rate: -2% (2007 est.)
GDP - per capita: $11,800 (2006 est.)
GDP - composition by sector: agriculture: 8.6%, industry: 22.5%,
services: 69.1% (2006 est.)
Labor force: 95,030 (2007 est.)
Labor force - by occupation: agriculture: 14.5%, industry: 29%,
services: 56.5% (2004)
Unemployment rate: 9.4% (2005 est.)
Population below poverty line: %NA
Inflation rate: 11.4% (2006)
Budget: revenues: $2.5 billion, expenditures: $2.5 billion (2006)
Agriculture - products: citrus fruit, dairy, potatoes, grapes,
olives, poultry, lamb
Industries: foodstuffs, textiles, clothing, ship repair, clay,
gypsum, copper, furniture
Industrial production growth rate: -0.3% (2007 est.)
Electricity production: 998.9 million kWh (2005)
Electricity consumption: 797.9 million kWh (2005)
Exports: $68.1 million, f.o.b. (2007 est.)
Export - commodities: citrus, dairy, potatoes, textiles
Export - partners: Turkey 40%; direct trade between the area
administered by Turkish Cypriots and the area under government
control remains limited
Imports: $1.2 billion, f.o.b. (2007 est.)
Import - commodities: vehicles, fuel, cigarettes, food, minerals,
chemicals, machinery
Import - partners: Turkey 60%; direct trade between the area
administered by Turkish Cypriots and the area under government
control remains limited
Economic aid - recipient: under a July 2006 agreement, Turkey plans
to provide the area administered by Turkish Cypriots 1.875 billion
YTL ($1.3 billion) over three years (600 million YTL in 2006, 625
million YTL in 2007 and 650 million YTL in 2008); Turkey has
forgiven most past aid; additionally, the EU pledged financial
assistance of Euro 259 million ($388 million) in 2004, which is yet
to be disbursed.
Reserves of foreign exchange and gold: $NA
Debt - external: $NA
Currency (code): Turkish new lira (YTL)
Exchange rates: Turkish new lira per US dollar: 1.319 (2007) 1.4286
(2006) 1.3436 (2005) 1.4255 (2004) 1.5009 (2003)


Communications
Cyprus



Telephones - main lines in use:

area under government control: 376,000 (2007); area administered by
Turkish Cypriots: 86,228 (2002)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

area under government control: 962,200 (2007); area administered by
Turkish Cypriots: 147,522 (2002)


Telephone system:

general assessment: excellent in both area under government control
and area administered by Turkish Cypriots
domestic: open-wire, fiber-optic cable, and microwave radio relay
international: country code - 357 (area administered by Turkish
Cypriots uses the country code of Turkey - 90); a number of
submarine cables, including the SEA-ME-WE-3, combine to provide
connectivity to Western Europe, the Middle East, and Asia;
tropospheric scatter; satellite earth stations - 8 (3 Intelsat - 1
Atlantic Ocean and 2 Indian Ocean, 2 Eutelsat, 2 Intersputnik, and 1
Arabsat)


Radio broadcast stations:

area under government control: AM 5, FM 76, shortwave 0
area administered by Turkish Cypriots: AM 1, FM 20, shortwave 1
(2004)


Radios:

Greek Cypriot area: 310,000 (1997); Turkish Cypriot area: 56,450
(1994)


Television broadcast stations:

area under government control: 8
area administered by Turkish Cypriots: 2 (plus 4 relay) (2004)


Televisions:

Greek Cypriot area: 248,000 (1997); Turkish Cypriot area: 52,300
(1994)


Internet country code:

.cy


Internet hosts:

143,099 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

6 (2000)


Internet users:

380,000 (2007)


Transportation
Cyprus



Airports:

16 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 13
2,438 to 3,047 m: 7
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 3
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 3
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
under 914 m: 2 (2007)


Heliports:

10 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 14,630 km (area under government control: 12,280 km; area
administered by Turkish Cypriots: 2,350 km)
paved: area under government control: 7,979 km (includes 257 km of
expressways); area administered by Turkish Cypriots: 1,370 km
unpaved: area under government control: 4,301 km; area administered
by Turkish Cypriots: 980 km (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 858
by type: bulk carrier 295, cargo 182, chemical tanker 63, container
193, liquefied gas 10, passenger 5, passenger/cargo 24, petroleum
tanker 58, refrigerated cargo 10, roll on/roll off 12, specialized
tanker 1, vehicle carrier 5
foreign-owned: 690 (Austria 1, Belgium 2, Canada 2, Chile 1, China
10, Cuba 1, Denmark 4, Estonia 5, Germany 189, Greece 259, Hong Kong
2, India 2, Iran 10, Ireland 3, Israel 4, Italy 7, Japan 21, South
Korea 1, Latvia 1, Lebanon 1, Netherlands 22, Norway 18, Philippines
1, Poland 18, Portugal 1, Russia 50, Singapore 3, Slovenia 4, Spain
6, Sweden 2, Syria 2, Ukraine 4, UAE 9, UK 19, US 5)
registered in other countries: 256 (Antigua and Barbuda 18, Bahamas
25, Belize 1, Burma 1, Cambodia 7, Comoros 1, Georgia 1, Germany 2,
Gibraltar 1, Greece 7, Liberia 63, Malta 31, Marshall Islands 37,
Netherlands 8, Netherlands Antilles 21, Panama 19, Poland 1, Russia
2, Saint Kitts and Nevis 1, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 1,
Samoa 1, Singapore 1, Tonga 1, Turkey 2, UK 2, unknown 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

area under government control: Larnaca, Limassol, Vasilikos; area
administered by Turkish Cypriots: Famagusta, Kyrenia


Military
Cyprus



Military branches:

Republic of Cyprus: Greek Cypriot National Guard (Ethniki Forea, EF;
includes air and naval elements); northern Cyprus: Turkish Cypriot
Security Force (GKK) (2007)


Military service age and obligation:

Greek Cypriot National Guard (GCNG): 18-50 years of age for
compulsory military service for all Greek Cypriot males; 17 years of
age for voluntary service; females are not conscripted; age of
military eligibility 17 to 50; length of normal service is 25 months
with a minimum of 3 months (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

Greek Cypriot National Guard (GCNG):
males age 16-49: 199,767
females age 16-49: 190,665 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

Greek Cypriot National Guard (GCNG):
males age 16-49: 165,042
females age 16-49: 158,869 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 6,482
female: 6,208 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

3.8% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Cyprus



Disputes - international:

hostilities in 1974 divided the island into two de facto autonomous
entities, the internationally recognized Cypriot Government and a
Turkish-Cypriot community (north Cyprus); the 1,000-strong UN
Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus (UNFICYP) has served in Cyprus since
1964 and maintains the buffer zone between north and south; on 1 May
2004, Cyprus entered the European Union still divided, with the EU's
body of legislation and standards (acquis communitaire) suspended in
the north; Turkey protests Cypriot Government creating hydrocarbon
blocks and maritime boundary with Lebanon in March 2007


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

IDPs: 210,000 (both Turkish and Greek Cypriots; many displaced for
over 30 years) (2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Cyprus is primarily a destination country for a
large number of women trafficked from Eastern and Central Europe,
the Philippines, and the Dominican Republic for the purpose of
sexual exploitation; traffickers continued to fraudulently recruit
victims for work as dancers in cabarets and nightclubs on short-term
"artiste" visas, for work in pubs and bars on employment visas, or
for illegal work on tourist or student visas
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Cyprus is on the Tier 2 Watch List
for a third consecutive year for failure to show evidence of
increasing efforts to combat human trafficking during 2007; although
Cyprus passed a new trafficking law and opened a government
trafficking shelter, these efforts are outweighed by its failure to
show tangible and critically needed progress in the areas of law
enforcement, victim protection, and the prevention of trafficking
(2008)


Illicit drugs:

minor transit point for heroin and hashish via air routes and
container traffic to Europe, especially from Lebanon and Turkey;
some cocaine transits as well; despite a strengthening of
anti-money-laundering legislation, remains vulnerable to money
laundering; reporting of suspicious transactions in offshore sector
remains weak



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Czech Republic

Introduction
Czech Republic



Background:

Following the First World War, the closely related Czechs and
Slovaks of the former Austro-Hungarian Empire merged to form
Czechoslovakia. During the interwar years, the new country's leaders
were frequently preoccupied with meeting the demands of other ethnic
minorities within the republic, most notably the Sudeten Germans and
the Ruthenians (Ukrainians). After World War II, a truncated
Czechoslovakia fell within the Soviet sphere of influence. In 1968,
an invasion by Warsaw Pact troops ended the efforts of the country's
leaders to liberalize Communist party rule and create "socialism
with a human face." Anti-Soviet demonstrations the following year
ushered in a period of harsh repression. With the collapse of Soviet
authority in 1989, Czechoslovakia regained its freedom through a
peaceful "Velvet Revolution." On 1 January 1993, the country
underwent a "velvet divorce" into its two national components, the
Czech Republic and Slovakia. The Czech Republic joined NATO in 1999
and the European Union in 2004.


Geography
Czech Republic



Location:

Central Europe, southeast of Germany


Geographic coordinates:

49 45 N, 15 30 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 78,866 sq km
land: 77,276 sq km
water: 1,590 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than South Carolina


Land boundaries:

total: 1,989 km
border countries: Austria 362 km, Germany 815 km, Poland 615 km,
Slovakia 197 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

temperate; cool summers; cold, cloudy, humid winters


Terrain:

Bohemia in the west consists of rolling plains, hills, and plateaus
surrounded by low mountains; Moravia in the east consists of very
hilly country


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Elbe River 115 m
highest point: Snezka 1,602 m


Natural resources:

hard coal, soft coal, kaolin, clay, graphite, timber


Land use:

arable land: 38.82%
permanent crops: 3%
other: 58.18% (2005)


Irrigated land:

240 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

16 cu km (2005)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 1.91 cu km/yr (41%/57%/2%)
per capita: 187 cu m/yr (2002)


Natural hazards:

flooding


Environment - current issues:

air and water pollution in areas of northwest Bohemia and in
northern Moravia around Ostrava present health risks; acid rain
damaging forests; efforts to bring industry up to EU code should
improve domestic pollution


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands,
Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

landlocked; strategically located astride some of oldest and most
significant land routes in Europe; Moravian Gate is a traditional
military corridor between the North European Plain and the Danube in
central Europe


People
Czech Republic



Population:

10,220,911 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 13.8% (male 723,521/female 684,786)
15-64 years: 71.2% (male 3,653,679/female 3,619,872)
65 years and over: 15.1% (male 604,419/female 934,634) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 39.8 years
male: 38.2 years
female: 41.6 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

-0.082% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

8.89 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

10.69 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

0.97 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.65 male(s)/female
total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 3.83 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 4.17 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 3.46 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 76.62 years
male: 73.34 years
female: 80.08 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.23 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

less than 0.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

2,500 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 10 (2001 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Czech(s)
adjective: Czech


Ethnic groups:

Czech 90.4%, Moravian 3.7%, Slovak 1.9%, other 4% (2001 census)


Religions:

Roman Catholic 26.8%, Protestant 2.1%, other 3.3%, unspecified 8.8%,
unaffiliated 59% (2001 census)


Languages:

Czech 94.9%, Slovak 2%, other 2.3%, unidentified 0.8% (2001 census)


Literacy:

definition: NA
total population: 99%
male: 99%
female: 99% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 15 years
male: 15 years
female: 15 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

4.4% of GDP (2004)


Government
Czech Republic



Country name:

conventional long form: Czech Republic
conventional short form: Czech Republic
local long form: Ceska Republika
local short form: Cesko


Government type:

parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Prague
geographic coordinates: 50 05 N, 14 28 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

13 regions (kraje, singular - kraj) and 1 capital city* (hlavni
mesto); Jihocesky (South Bohemia), Jihomoravsky (South Moravia),
Karlovarsky, Kralovehradecky, Liberecky, Moravskoslezsky
(Moravia-Silesia), Olomoucky, Pardubicky, Plzensky (Pilsen), Praha
(Prague)*, Stredocesky (Central Bohemia), Ustecky, Vysocina, Zlinsky


Independence:

1 January 1993 (Czechoslovakia split into the Czech Republic and
Slovakia)


National holiday:

Czech Founding Day, 28 October (1918)


Constitution:

ratified 16 December 1992, effective 1 January 1993


Legal system:

civil law system based on Austro-Hungarian codes; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction; legal code modified to bring it in line
with Organization on Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE)
obligations and to expunge Marxist-Leninist legal theory


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Vaclav KLAUS (since 7 March 2003)
head of government: Prime Minister Mirek TOPOLANEK (since 9 January
2007); Deputy Prime Ministers Petr NECAS (since 9 January 2007),
Martin BURSIK (since 9 January 2007), and Alexandr VONDRA (since 9
January 2007)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president on the recommendation of
the prime minister
elections: president elected by Parliament for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); last successful election held 15
February 2008 (after earlier elections held 8 and 9 February 2008
were inconclusive; next election to be held in February 2013); prime
minister appointed by the president
election results: Vaclav KLAUS reelected president on 15 February
2008; Vaclav KLAUS 141 votes, Jan SVEJNAR 111 votes (third round;
combined votes of both chambers of parliament)


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament or Parlament consists of the Senate or Senat
(81 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve six-year
terms; one-third elected every two years) and the Chamber of
Deputies or Poslanecka Snemovna (200 seats; members are elected by
popular vote to serve four-year terms)
elections: Senate - last held in two rounds 17-18 and 24-25 October
2008 (next to be held in October 2010); Chamber of Deputies - last
held 2-3 June 2006 (next to be held by June 2010)
election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - ODS 35, CSSD 29, KDU-CSL 7, others 8, independents 2;
Chamber of Deputies - percent of vote by party - ODS 35.4%, CSSD
32.3%, KSCM 12.8%, KDU-CSL 7.2%, Greens 6.3%, other 6%; seats by
party - ODS 81, CSSD 74, KSCM 26, KDU-CSL 13, Greens 6; note - seats
by party as of December 2007 - ODS 81, CSSD 72, KSCM 26, KDU-CSL 13,
Greens 6, unaffiliated 2 (former CSSD members)


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court; Constitutional Court; chairman and deputy chairmen
are appointed by the president for a 10-year term


Political parties and leaders:

Association of Independent Candidates-European Democrats or SNK-ED
[Helmut DOHNALEK]; Christian Democratic Union-Czechoslovak People's
Party or KDU-CSL [Jiri CUNEK]; Civic Democratic Party or ODS [Mirek
TOPOLANEK]; Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia or KSCM [Vojtech
FILIP]; Czech Social Democratic Party or CSSD [Jiri PAROUBEK]; Union
of Freedom-Democratic Union or US-DEU [Jan CERNY]; Green Party
[Martin BURSIK]; Independent Democrats (NEZDEM) [Vladimir ZELEZNY];
Party of Open Society (SOS) [Pavel NOVACEK]; Path of Change [Jiri
LOBKOWITZ]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Czech-Moravian Confederation of Trade Unions or CMKOS [Milan STECH]


International organization participation:

ACCT (observer), Australia Group, BIS, BSEC (observer), CE, CEI,
CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, ESA (cooperating state), EU, FAO, IAEA, IBRD,
ICAO, ICC, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF,
IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA,
MONUC, NAM (guest), NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OIF
(observer), OPCW, OSCE, PCA, Schengen Convention, UN, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNOMIG, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WEU (associate),
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Petr KOLAR
chancery: 3900 Spring of Freedom Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 274-9100
FAX: [1] (202) 966-8540
consulate(s) general: Chicago, Los Angeles, New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Richard W. GRABER
embassy: Trziste 15, 118 01 Prague 1
mailing address: use embassy street address
telephone: [420] 257 022 000
FAX: [420] 257 022 809


Flag description:

two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and red with a blue
isosceles triangle based on the hoist side
note: identical to the flag of the former Czechoslovakia


Economy
Czech Republic



Economy - overview:

The Czech Republic is one of the most stable and prosperous of the
post-Communist states of Central and Eastern Europe. Growth in
2000-07 was supported by exports to the EU, primarily to Germany,
and a strong recovery of foreign and domestic investment. Domestic
demand is playing an ever more important role in underpinning growth
as the availability of credit cards and mortgages increases. The
current account deficit has declined to around 3.3% of GDP as demand
for automotive and other products from the Czech Republic remains
strong in the European Union. Rising inflation from higher food and
energy prices are a risk to balanced economic growth. Significant
increases in social spending in the run-up to June 2006 elections
prevented, the government from meeting its goal of reducing its
budget deficit to 3% of GDP in 2007. Negotiations on pension and
additional healthcare reforms are continuing without clear prospects
for agreement and implementation. Intensified restructuring among
large enterprises, improvements in the financial sector, and
effective use of available EU funds should strengthen output growth.
The pro-business Civic Democratic Party-led government approved
reforms in 2007 designed to cut spending on some social welfare
benefits and reform the tax system with the aim of eventually
reducing the budget deficit to 2.3% of GDP by 2010. Parliamentary
approval for any additional reforms could prove difficult, however,
because of the parliament's even split. The government withdrew a
2010 target date for euro adoption and instead aims to meet the
eurozone criteria around 2012.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$251 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$175.3 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6.6% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$24,500 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 2.7%
industry: 38.7%
services: 58.6% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

5.36 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 4.1%
industry: 37.6%
services: 58.3% (2003)


Unemployment rate:

6.6% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 4.3%
highest 10%: 22.4% (1996)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

26 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

24.1% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $72.1 billion
expenditures: $74.98 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

26% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.9% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

3.5% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

5.79% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$84.43 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$58.77 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$103.9 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

wheat, potatoes, sugar beets, hops, fruit; pigs, poultry


Industries:

metallurgy, machinery and equipment, motor vehicles, glass, armaments


Industrial production growth rate:

9.8% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

82.88 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

61.52 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

26.36 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

10.2 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 76.1%
hydro: 2.9%
nuclear: 20%
other: 1% (2001)


Oil - production:

13,530 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

207,400 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

27,360 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

224,600 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

15 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

172 million cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

8.622 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

402 million cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

8.628 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

3.964 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$4.534 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$122.3 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

machinery and transport equipment 52%, raw materials and fuel 9%,
chemicals 5% (2003)


Exports - partners:

Germany 30.7%, Slovakia 8.7%, Poland 5.9%, France 5.4%, UK 5.1%,
Italy 4.9%, Austria 4.6% (2007)


Imports:

$116.6 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and transport equipment 46%, raw materials and fuels 15%,
chemicals 10% (2003)


Imports - partners:

Germany 31.8%, Netherlands 6.7%, Slovakia 6.4%, Poland 6.3%, Austria
5.1%, China 5.1%, Russia 4.5%, Italy 4.4%, France 4.1% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$278.7 million in available EU structural adjustment and cohesion
funds (2004)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$34.59 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$74.7 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$86.75 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$6.058 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$48.6 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

Czech koruna (CZK)


Currency code:

CZK


Exchange rates:

koruny (CZK) per US dollar - 20.53 (2007), 22.596 (2006), 23.957
(2005), 25.7 (2004), 28.209 (2003)


Communications
Czech Republic



Telephones - main lines in use:

2.888 million (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

13.075 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: privatization and modernization of the Czech
telecommunication system got a late start but is advancing steadily;
access to the fixed-line telephone network expanded throughout the
1990s but the number of fixed line connections has been dropping
since then; mobile telephone usage increased sharply beginning in
the mid-1990s and the number of cellular telephone subscriptions now
greatly exceeds the population
domestic: virtually all exchanges now digital; existing copper
subscriber systems enhanced with Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line
(ADSL) equipment to accommodate Internet and other digital signals;
trunk systems include fiber-optic cable and microwave radio relay
international: country code - 420; satellite earth stations - 6 (2
Intersputnik - Atlantic and Indian Ocean regions, 1 Intelsat, 1
Eutelsat, 1 Inmarsat, 1 Globalstar) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 31, FM 304, shortwave 17 (2000)


Radios:

3,159,134 (December 2000)


Television broadcast stations:

150 (plus 1,434 repeaters) (2000)


Televisions:

3,405,834 (December 2000)


Internet country code:

.cz


Internet hosts:

2.434 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

more than 300 (2000)


Internet users:

4.4 million (2007)


Transportation
Czech Republic



Airports:

122 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 45
over 3,047 m: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 10
1,524 to 2,437 m: 13
914 to 1,523 m: 2
under 914 m: 18 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 77
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 26
under 914 m: 50 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 7,010 km; oil 547 km; refined products 94 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 9,597 km
standard gauge: 9,597 km 1.435-m gauge (3,041 km electrified) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 128,512 km
paved: 128,512 km (includes 657 km of expressways) (2007)


Waterways:

664 km (principally on Elbe, Vltava, Oder, and other navigable
rivers, lakes, and canals) (2006)


Merchant marine:

registered in other countries: 1 (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Decin, Prague, Usti nad Labem


Military
Czech Republic



Military branches:

Army of the Czech Republic (ACR): Joint Forces Command (includes
Army and Air Forces), Support and Training Forces Command (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18-28 years of age for voluntary and 19-28 for compulsory military
service (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,522,383
females age 16-49: 2,425,095 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,100,789
females age 16-49: 2,018,101 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 63,124
female: 59,786 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.46% of GDP (2007 est.)


Transnational Issues
Czech Republic



Disputes - international:

while threats of international legal action never materialized in
2007, 915,220 Austrians, with the support of the popular Freedom
Party, signed a petition in January 2008, demanding that Austria
block the Czech Republic's accession to the EU unless Prague closes
its controversial Soviet-style nuclear plant in Temelin, bordering
Austria


Illicit drugs:

transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin and minor transit
point for Latin American cocaine to Western Europe; producer of
synthetic drugs for local and regional markets; susceptible to money
laundering related to drug trafficking, organized crime; significant
consumer of ecstasy



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Denmark

Introduction
Denmark



Background:

Once the seat of Viking raiders and later a major north European
power, Denmark has evolved into a modern, prosperous nation that is
participating in the general political and economic integration of
Europe. It joined NATO in 1949 and the EEC (now the EU) in 1973.
However, the country has opted out of certain elements of the
European Union's Maastricht Treaty, including the European Economic
and Monetary Union (EMU), European defense cooperation, and issues
concerning certain justice and home affairs.


Geography
Denmark



Location:

Northern Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea and the North Sea, on a
peninsula north of Germany (Jutland); also includes two major
islands (Sjaelland and Fyn)


Geographic coordinates:

56 00 N, 10 00 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 43,094 sq km
land: 42,394 sq km
water: 700 sq km
note: includes the island of Bornholm in the Baltic Sea and the rest
of metropolitan Denmark (the Jutland Peninsula, and the major
islands of Sjaelland and Fyn), but excludes the Faroe Islands and
Greenland


Area - comparative:

slightly less than twice the size of Massachusetts


Land boundaries:

total: 68 km
border countries: Germany 68 km


Coastline:

7,314 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation


Climate:

temperate; humid and overcast; mild, windy winters and cool summers


Terrain:

low and flat to gently rolling plains


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Lammefjord -7 m
highest point: Yding Skovhoej 173 m


Natural resources:

petroleum, natural gas, fish, salt, limestone, chalk, stone, gravel
and sand


Land use:

arable land: 52.59%
permanent crops: 0.19%
other: 47.22% (2005)


Irrigated land:

4,490 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

6.1 cu km (2003)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.67 cu km/yr (32%/26%/42%)
per capita: 123 cu m/yr (2002)


Natural hazards:

flooding is a threat in some areas of the country (e.g., parts of
Jutland, along the southern coast of the island of Lolland) that are
protected from the sea by a system of dikes


Environment - current issues:

air pollution, principally from vehicle and power plant emissions;
nitrogen and phosphorus pollution of the North Sea; drinking and
surface water becoming polluted from animal wastes and pesticides


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

controls Danish Straits (Skagerrak and Kattegat) linking Baltic and
North Seas; about one-quarter of the population lives in greater
Copenhagen


People
Denmark



Population:

5,484,723 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 18.4% (male 516,735/female 490,532)
15-64 years: 65.9% (male 1,818,681/female 1,796,753)
65 years and over: 15.7% (male 374,388/female 487,634) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 40.3 years
male: 39.4 years
female: 41.2 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.295% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

10.71 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

10.25 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

2.49 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.77 male(s)/female
total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 4.4 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 4.44 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 4.35 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 78.13 years
male: 75.8 years
female: 80.59 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.74 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.2% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

5,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 100 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Dane(s)
adjective: Danish


Ethnic groups:

Scandinavian, Inuit, Faroese, German, Turkish, Iranian, Somali


Religions:

Evangelical Lutheran 95%, other Christian (includes Protestant and
Roman Catholic) 3%, Muslim 2%


Languages:

Danish, Faroese, Greenlandic (an Inuit dialect), German (small
minority)
note: English is the predominant second language


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99%
male: 99%
female: 99% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 17 years
male: 16 years
female: 17 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

8.3% of GDP (2005)


Government
Denmark



Country name:

conventional long form: Kingdom of Denmark
conventional short form: Denmark
local long form: Kongeriget Danmark
local short form: Danmark


Government type:

constitutional monarchy


Capital:

name: Copenhagen
geographic coordinates: 55 40 N, 12 35 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October
note: applies to continental Denmark only, not to the North Atlantic
components


Administrative divisions:

metropolitan Denmark - 5 regions (regioner, singular - region);
Hovedstaden, Midtjylland, Nordjylland, Sjaelland, Syddanmark
note: an extensive local government reform merged 271 municipalities
into 98 and 13 counties into five regions, effective 1 January 2007


Independence:

first organized as a unified state in 10th century; in 1849 became a
constitutional monarchy


National holiday:

none designated; Constitution Day, 5 June (1849) is generally viewed
as the National Day


Constitution:

5 June 1953 constitution allowed for a unicameral legislature and a
female chief of state


Legal system:

civil law system; judicial review of legislative acts; accepts
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen MARGRETHE II (since 14 January 1972); Heir
Apparent Crown Prince FREDERIK, elder son of the monarch (born 26
May 1968)
head of government: Prime Minister Anders Fogh RASMUSSEN (since 27
November 2001)
cabinet: Council of State appointed by the monarch
elections: the monarch is hereditary; following legislative
elections, the leader of the majority party or the leader of the
majority coalition is usually appointed prime minister by the monarch


Legislative branch:

unicameral People's Assembly or Folketinget (179 seats, including 2
from Greenland and 2 from the Faroe Islands; members are elected by
popular vote on the basis of proportional representation to serve
four-year terms unless the Folketinget is dissolved earlier)
elections: last held 13 November 2007 (next to be held in 2011)
election results: percent of vote by party - Liberal Party 26.2%,
Social Democrats 25.5%, Danish People's Party 13.9%, Socialist
People's Party 13.0%, Conservative People's Party 10.4%, Social
Liberal Party 5.1%, New Alliance 2.8%, Red-Green Alliance 2.2%,
other 0.9%; seats by party - Liberal Party 46, Social Democrats 45,
Danish People's Party 25, Socialist People's Party 23, Conservative
People's Party 18, Social Liberal Party 9, New Alliance 5, Red-Green
Alliance 4; note - does not include the two seats from Greenland and
the two seats from the Faroe Islands


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the monarch for life)


Political parties and leaders:

Christian Democrats [Bjarne Hartung KIRKEGAARD] (was Christian
People's Party); Conservative Party [Bendt BENDTSEN] (sometimes
known as Conservative People's Party); Danish People's Party [Pia
KJAERSGAARD]; Liberal Party [Anders Fogh RASMUSSEN]; New Alliance
[Naser KHADER]; Red-Green Unity List (Alliance) [collective
leadership] (bloc includes Left Socialist Party, Communist Party of
Denmark, Socialist Workers' Party); Social Democratic Party [Helle
THORNING-SCHMIDT]; Social Liberal Party [Margrethe VESTAGER];
Socialist People's Party [Villy SOEVNDAL]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Danish Free Press Society (freedom of speech); Danish National
Socialist Movement or DNSB [Jonni HANSEN] (neo-Nazi organization)
other: human rights groups


International organization participation:

ADB (nonregional members), AfDB (nonregional members), Arctic
Council, Australia Group, BIS, CBSS, CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, ESA,
EU, FAO, G-9, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IEA,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU,
ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MONUC, NATO, NC, NEA, NIB, NSG, OAS
(observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, Paris Club, PCA, Schengen Convention,
UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNMOGIP, UNOMIG,
UNRWA, UNTSO, UPU, WCO, WEU (observer), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Friis Arne PETERSEN
chancery: 3200 Whitehaven Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 234-4300
FAX: [1] (202) 328-1470
consulate(s) general: Chicago, New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador James P. CAIN
embassy: Dag Hammarskjolds Alle 24, 2100 Copenhagen
mailing address: PSC 73, APO AE 09716
telephone: [45] 33 41 71 00
FAX: [45] 35 43 02 23


Flag description:

red with a white cross that extends to the edges of the flag; the
vertical part of the cross is shifted to the hoist side; the banner
is referred to as the Dannebrog (Danish flag)
note: the shifted design element was subsequently adopted by the
other Nordic countries of Finland, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden


Economy
Denmark



Economy - overview:

The Danish economy has in recent years undergone strong expansion
fueled primarily by private consumption growth, but also supported
by exports and investments. This thoroughly modern market economy
features high-tech agriculture, up-to-date small-scale and corporate
industry, extensive government welfare measures, comfortable living
standards, a stable currency, and high dependence on foreign trade.
Unemployment is low and capacity constraints are limiting growth
potential. Denmark is a net exporter of food and energy and enjoys a
comfortable balance of payments surplus. Government objectives
include streamlining the bureaucracy and further privatization of
state assets. The government has been successful in meeting, and
even exceeding, the economic convergence criteria for participating
in the third phase (a common European currency) of the European
Economic and Monetary Union (EMU), but so far Denmark has decided
not to join 15 other EU members in the euro. Nonetheless, the Danish
krone remains pegged to the euro. Economic growth gained momentum in
2004 and the upturn continued through 2007. The controversy over
caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad printed in a Danish newspaper in
September 2005 led to boycotts of some Danish exports to the Muslim
world, especially exports of dairy products, but the boycotts did
not have a significant impact on the overall Danish economy. Because
of high GDP per capita, welfare benefits, a low Gini index, and
political stability, the Danish living standards are among the
highest in the world. A major long-term issue will be the sharp
decline in the ratio of workers to retirees.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$203.3 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$311.9 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

1.7% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$37,200 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 1.3%
industry: 25.7%
services: 73% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

2.86 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 3%
industry: 21%
services: 76% (2004 est.)


Unemployment rate:

2.8% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2%
highest 10%: 24% (2000 est.)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

24 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

22.9% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $170.6 billion
expenditures: $156.8 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

26% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

1.7% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

4% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

NA


Stock of money:

$148.7 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$81.64 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$684.7 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

barley, wheat, potatoes, sugar beets; pork, dairy products; fish


Industries:

iron, steel, nonferrous metals, chemicals, food processing,
machinery and transportation equipment, textiles and clothing,
electronics, construction, furniture and other wood products,
shipbuilding and refurbishment, windmills, pharmaceuticals, medical
equipment


Industrial production growth rate:

0.5% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

36.99 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

34.68 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

11.38 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

10.43 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 82.7%
hydro: 0.1%
nuclear: 0%
other: 17.3% (2001)


Oil - production:

313,800 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

190,600 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

320,000 bbl/day (2006)


Oil - imports:

164,000 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - proved reserves:

1.188 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

9.223 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

4.555 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

4.517 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

70.51 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$4.279 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$101.2 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

machinery and instruments, meat and meat products, dairy products,
fish, pharmaceuticals, furniture, windmills


Exports - partners:

Germany 17.4%, Sweden 14.5%, UK 8%, US 6.1%, Norway 5.7%, France
4.8%, Netherlands 4.8% (2007)


Imports:

$102 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, raw materials and semimanufactures for
industry, chemicals, grain and foodstuffs, consumer goods


Imports - partners:

Germany 21.6%, Sweden 14.4%, Netherlands 7.1%, Norway 6%, China
5.4%, UK 5.3%, Italy 4.1%, France 4% (2007)


Economic aid - donor:

ODA, $2.236 billion (2006)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$34.32 billion (2006 est.)


Debt - external:

$492.6 billion (30 June 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$149.7 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$166.6 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$178 billion (2005)


Currency (code):

Danish krone (DKK)


Currency code:

DKK


Exchange rates:

Danish kroner (DKK) per US dollar - 5.4797 (2007), 5.9468 (2006),
5.9969 (2005), 5.9911 (2004), 6.5877 (2003)


Communications
Denmark



Telephones - main lines in use:

2.824 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

6.243 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: excellent telephone and telegraph services
domestic: buried and submarine cables and microwave radio relay form
trunk network, 4 cellular mobile communications systems
international: country code - 45; a series of fiber-optic submarine
cables link Denmark with Canada, Faroe Islands, Germany, Iceland,
Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Russia, Sweden, and UK; satellite earth
stations - 18 (6 Intelsat, 10 Eutelsat, 1 Orion, 1 Inmarsat
(Blaavand-Atlantic-East)); note - the Nordic countries (Denmark,
Finland, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden) share the Danish earth station
and the Eik, Norway, station for worldwide Inmarsat access


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 2, FM 355, shortwave 0 (1998)


Radios:

6.02 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

26 (plus 51 repeaters) (1998)


Televisions:

3.121 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.dk


Internet hosts:

3.642 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

13 (2000)


Internet users:

3.5 million (2007)


Transportation
Denmark



Airports:

91 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 28
over 3,047 m: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 7
1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
914 to 1,523 m: 12
under 914 m: 3 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 63
914 to 1,523 m: 3
under 914 m: 60 (2007)


Pipelines:

condensate 11 km; gas 4,073 km; oil 617 km; oil/gas/water 2 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 2,644 km
standard gauge: 2,644 km 1.435-m gauge (636 km electrified) (2007)


Roadways:

total: 72,362 km
paved: 72,362 km (includes 1,032 km of expressways) (2006)


Waterways:

400 km (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 327
by type: bulk carrier 8, cargo 63, carrier 2, chemical tanker 78,
container 84, liquefied gas 2, passenger/cargo 42, petroleum tanker
29, refrigerated cargo 7, roll on/roll off 8, specialized tanker 4
foreign-owned: 26 (Canada 1, Germany 1, Germany 9, Greece 4, Iceland
2, Norway 3, Sweden 6)
registered in other countries: 534 (Antigua and Barbuda 19, Bahamas
67, Belgium 4, Brazil 2, Cayman Islands 3, Cyprus 4, Egypt 1,
Estonia 1, France 2, Germany 1, Gibraltar 7, Hong Kong 24, Isle of
Man 29, Italy 3, Jamaica 2, Liberia 12, Lithuania 5, Luxembourg 1,
Malta 30, Marshall Islands 10, Mexico 2, Netherlands 29, Netherlands
Antilles 2, Norway 25, Panama 40, Portugal 3, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines 16, Singapore 87, South Africa 1, Spain 1, Spain 1,
Sweden 4, Togo 1, UAE 1, UK 62, US 31, Venezuela 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Aalborg, Aarhus, Copenhagen, Ensted, Esbjerg, Fredericia, Kalundborg


Military
Denmark



Military branches:

Defense Command: Army Operational Command, Admiral Danish Fleet,
Island Command Greenland, Tactical Air Command, Home Guard (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military service;
conscripts serve an initial training period that varies from 4 to 12
months according to specialization; reservists are assigned to
mobilization units following completion of their conscript service;
women eligible to volunteer for military service (2004)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,235,067
females age 16-49: 1,215,418 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,012,716
females age 16-49: 996,436 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 36,561
female: 34,603 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.5% of GDP (2006; 1.28% 2007 est.)


Transnational Issues
Denmark



Disputes - international:

Iceland, the UK, and Ireland dispute Denmark's claim that the Faroe
Islands' continental shelf extends beyond 200 nm; Faroese continue
to study proposals for full independence; sovereignty dispute with
Canada over Hans Island in the Kennedy Channel between Ellesmere
Island and Greenland



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Dhekelia

Introduction
Dhekelia



Background:

By terms of the 1960 Treaty of Establishment that created the
independent Republic of Cyprus, the UK retained full sovereignty and
jurisdiction over two areas of almost 254 square kilometers -
Akrotiri and Dhekelia. The larger of these is the Dhekelia Sovereign
Base Area, which is also referred to as the Eastern Sovereign Base
Area.


Geography
Dhekelia



Location:

Eastern Mediterranean, on the southeast coast of Cyprus near
Famagusta


Geographic coordinates:

34 59 N, 33 45 E


Map references:

Middle East


Area:

total: 130.8 sq km
note: area surrounds three Cypriot enclaves


Area - comparative:

about three-quarters the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

total: 103 km (approximately)
border countries: Cyprus 103 km (approximately)


Coastline:

27.5 km


Climate:

temperate; Mediterranean with hot, dry summers and cool winters


Environment - current issues:

netting and trapping of small migrant songbirds in the spring and
autumn


Geography - note:

British extraterritorial rights also extended to several small
off-post sites scattered across Cyprus; of the Sovereign Base Area
land 60% is privately owned and farmed, 20% is owned by the Ministry
of Defense, and 20% is SBA Crown land


People
Dhekelia



Population:

approximately 15,700 live on the Sovereign Base Areas of Akrotiri
and Dhekelia including 7,700 Cypriots, 3,600 Service and UK Based
Contract personnel, and 4,400 dependents


Languages:

English, Greek


Government
Dhekelia



Country name:

conventional long form: Dhekelia Sovereign Base Area
conventional short form: Dhekelia


Dependency status:

a special form of UK overseas territory; administered by an
administrator who is also the Commander, British Forces Cyprus


Capital:

name: Episkopi Cantonment (base administrative center for Akrotiri
and Dhekelia); located in Akrotiri
geographic coordinates: 34 40 N, 32 51 E
time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Constitution:

Sovereign Base Areas of Akrotiri and Dhekelia Order in Council 1960,
effective 16 August 1960, functions as a basic legal document


Legal system:

the Sovereign Base Area Administration has its own court system to
deal with civil and criminal matters; laws applicable to the Cypriot
population are, as far as possible, the same as the laws of the
Republic of Cyprus


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952)
head of government: Administrator Air Vice-Marshal Richard LACEY
(since 26 April 2006); note - reports to the British Ministry of
Defense
elections: none; the monarch is hereditary; the administrator is
appointed by the monarch


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


Flag description:

the flag of the UK is used


Economy
Dhekelia



Economy - overview:

Economic activity is limited to providing services to the military
and their families located in Dhekelia. All food and manufactured
goods must be imported.


Industries:

none


Currency (code):

euro (EUR) adopted 1 January 2008; note - the Cypriot pound (CYP)
formerly used


Exchange rates:

euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.4286 (2007), 0.46019 (2006), 0.4641
(2005), 0.4686 (2004), 0.5174 (2003)


Communications
Dhekelia



Radio broadcast stations:

AM NA, FM 1 (located in Akrotiri), shortwave NA (British Forces
Broadcasting Service (BFBS) provides Radio 1 and Radio 2 service to
Akrotiri, Dhekelia, and Nicosia) (2006)


Television broadcast stations:

0 (British Forces Broadcasting Service (BFBS) provides multi-channel
satellite service to Akrotiri, Dhekelia, and Nicosia) (2006)



Military
Dhekelia



Military - note:

includes Dhekelia Garrison and Ayios Nikolaos Station connected by a
roadway




This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Djibouti

Introduction
Djibouti



Background:

The French Territory of the Afars and the Issas became Djibouti in
1977. Hassan Gouled APTIDON installed an authoritarian one-party
state and proceeded to serve as president until 1999. Unrest among
the Afars minority during the 1990s led to a civil war that ended in
2001 following the conclusion of a peace accord between Afar rebels
and the Issa-dominated government. In 1999, Djibouti's first
multi-party presidential elections resulted in the election of
Ismail Omar GUELLEH; he was re-elected to a second and final term in
2005. Djibouti occupies a strategic geographic location at the mouth
of the Red Sea and serves as an important transshipment location for
goods entering and leaving the east African highlands. The present
leadership favors close ties to France, which maintains a
significant military presence in the country, but also has strong
ties with the US. Djibouti hosts the only US military base in
sub-Saharan Africa and is a front-line state in the global war on
terrorism.


Geography
Djibouti



Location:

Eastern Africa, bordering the Gulf of Aden and the Red Sea, between
Eritrea and Somalia


Geographic coordinates:

11 30 N, 43 00 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 23,000 sq km
land: 22,980 sq km
water: 20 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Massachusetts


Land boundaries:

total: 516 km
border countries: Eritrea 109 km, Ethiopia 349 km, Somalia 58 km


Coastline:

314 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

desert; torrid, dry


Terrain:

coastal plain and plateau separated by central mountains


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Lac Assal -155 m
highest point: Moussa Ali 2,028 m


Natural resources:

geothermal areas, gold, clay, granite, limestone, marble, salt,
diatomite, gypsum, pumice, petroleum


Land use:

arable land: 0.04%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 99.96% (2005)


Irrigated land:

10 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

0.3 cu km (1997)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.02 cu km/yr (84%/0%/16%)
per capita: 25 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

earthquakes; droughts; occasional cyclonic disturbances from the
Indian Ocean bring heavy rains and flash floods


Environment - current issues:

inadequate supplies of potable water; limited arable land;
desertification; endangered species


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

strategic location near world's busiest shipping lanes and close to
Arabian oilfields; terminus of rail traffic into Ethiopia; mostly
wasteland; Lac Assal (Lake Assal) is the lowest point in Africa


People
Djibouti



Population:

506,221 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 43.3% (male 110,089/female 109,331)
15-64 years: 53.1% (male 139,164/female 129,614)
65 years and over: 3.6% (male 9,068/female 8,955) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 18.2 years
male: 18.6 years
female: 17.7 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.945% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

38.61 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

19.16 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.07 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 1.01 male(s)/female
total population: 1.04 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 99.13 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 106.65 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 91.38 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 43.31 years
male: 41.89 years
female: 44.77 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

5.14 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

2.9% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

9,100 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

690 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A and E, and typhoid fever
vectorborne disease: malaria
note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Djiboutian(s)
adjective: Djiboutian


Ethnic groups:

Somali 60%, Afar 35%, other 5% (includes French, Arab, Ethiopian,
and Italian)


Religions:

Muslim 94%, Christian 6%


Languages:

French (official), Arabic (official), Somali, Afar


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 67.9%
male: 78%
female: 58.4% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 4 years
male: 5 years
female: 4 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

8.4% of GDP (2006)


Government
Djibouti



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Djibouti
conventional short form: Djibouti
local long form: Republique de Djibouti/Jumhuriyat Jibuti
local short form: Djibouti/Jibuti
former: French Territory of the Afars and Issas, French Somaliland


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Djibouti
geographic coordinates: 11 35 N, 43 09 E
time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

6 districts (cercles, singular - cercle); Ali Sabieh, Arta, Dikhil,
Djibouti, Obock, Tadjourah


Independence:

27 June 1977 (from France)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 27 June (1977)


Constitution:

multiparty constitution approved by referendum 4 September 1992


Legal system:

based on French civil law system, traditional practices, and Islamic
law; accepts ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Ismail Omar GUELLEH (since 8 May 1999)
head of government: Prime Minister Mohamed Dileita DILEITA (since 4
March 2001)
cabinet: Council of Ministers responsible to the president
elections: president elected by popular vote for a six-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 8 April 2005 (next
to be held by April 2011); prime minister appointed by the president
election results: Ismail Omar GUELLEH reelected president; percent
of vote - Ismail Omar GUELLEH 100%


Legislative branch:

unicameral Chamber of Deputies or Chambre des Deputes (65 seats;
members elected by popular vote for five-year terms)
elections: last held 8 February 2008 (next to be held 2013)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats - UMP
(coalition of parties associated with President Ismail Omar GUELLAH)
65


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court or Cour Supreme


Political parties and leaders:

Democratic National Party or PND [ADEN Robleh Awaleh]; Democratic
Renewal Party or PRD [Abdillahi HAMARITEH]; Djibouti Development
Party or PDD [Mohamed Daoud CHEHEM]; Front pour la Restauration de
l'Unite Democratique or FRUD [Ali Mohamed DAOUD]; People's Progress
Assembly or RPP [Ismail Omar GUELLEH] (governing party); Peoples
Social Democratic Party or PPSD [Moumin Bahdon FARAH]; Republican
Alliance for Democracy or ARD; Union for a Presidential Majority or
UMP (a coalition of parties including RPP, FRUD, PND, and PPSD);
Union for Democracy and Justice or UDJ


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Union for Presidential Majority UMP (coalition includes RPP, FRUD,
PPSD and PND); Union for Democratic Changeover or UAD (opposition
coalition includes ARD, MRDD, and UDJ)


International organization participation:

ACCT, ACP, AfDB, AFESD, AMF, AU, COMESA, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO,
ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IGAD, ILO, IMF, IMO,
Interpol, IOC, ITU, ITUC, LAS, MIGA, MINURSO, NAM, OIC, OIF, OPCW,
UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Roble OLHAYE Oudine
chancery: Suite 515, 1156 15th Street NW, Washington, DC 20005
telephone: [1] (202) 331-0270
FAX: [1] (202) 331-0302


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador James C. SWAN
embassy: Plateau du Serpent, Boulevard Marechal Joffre, Djibouti
mailing address: B. P. 185, Djibouti
telephone: [253] 35 39 95
FAX: [253] 35 39 40


Flag description:

two equal horizontal bands of light blue (top) and light green with
a white isosceles triangle based on the hoist side bearing a red
five-pointed star in the center


Economy
Djibouti



Economy - overview:

The economy is based on service activities connected with the
country's strategic location and status as a free trade zone in the
Horn of Africa. Two-thirds of Djibouti's inhabitants live in the
capital city; the remainder are mostly nomadic herders. Scanty
rainfall limits crop production to fruits and vegetables, and most
food must be imported. Djibouti provides services as both a transit
port for the region and an international transshipment and refueling
center. Imports and exports from landlocked neighbor Ethiopia
represent 85% of port activity at Djibouti's container terminal.
Djibouti has few natural resources and little industry. The nation
is, therefore, heavily dependent on foreign assistance to help
support its balance of payments and to finance development projects.
An unemployment rate of nearly 60% continues to be a major problem.
While inflation is not a concern, due to the fixed tie of the
Djiboutian franc to the US dollar, the artificially high value of
the Djiboutian franc adversely affects Djibouti's balance of
payments. Per capita consumption dropped an estimated 35% between
1999 and 2006 because of recession, civil war, and a high population
growth rate (including immigrants and refugees). Faced with a
multitude of economic difficulties, the government has fallen in
arrears on long-term external debt and has been struggling to meet
the stipulations of foreign aid donors.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$1.738 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$841 million (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

5.2% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$2,300 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 3.2%
industry: 14.9%
services: 81.9% (2006)


Labor force:

282,000 (2000)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: NA%
industry: NA%
services: NA%


Unemployment rate:

59% in urban areas, 83% in rural areas (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

42% (2007 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $135 million
expenditures: $182 million (1999 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

5% (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

NA


Stock of money:

$380 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$284.1 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$224.7 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

fruits, vegetables; goats, sheep, camels, animal hides


Industries:

construction, agricultural processing


Industrial production growth rate:

3% (1996 est.)


Electricity - production:

250 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

232.5 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

12,170 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

19.18 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

11,810 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$212 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$340 million f.o.b. (2006)


Exports - commodities:

reexports, hides and skins, coffee (in transit)


Exports - partners:

Somalia 66.4%, Ethiopia 21.5%, Yemen 3.4% (2007)


Imports:

$1.555 billion f.o.b. (2006)


Imports - commodities:

foods, beverages, transport equipment, chemicals, petroleum products


Imports - partners:

Saudi Arabia 21%, India 18.1%, China 9.4%, Ethiopia 4.7%, Malaysia
4.6%, Japan 4.2% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$78.6 million (2005)


Debt - external:

$428 million (2006)


Currency (code):

Djiboutian franc (DJF)


Currency code:

DJF


Exchange rates:

Djiboutian francs (DJF) per US dollar - 177.71 (2007), 174.75
(2006), 177.72 (2005), 177.72 (2004), 177.72 (2003)


Communications
Djibouti



Telephones - main lines in use:

10,800 (2005)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

45,000 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: telephone facilities in the city of Djibouti are
adequate, as are the microwave radio relay connections to outlying
areas of the country
domestic: microwave radio relay network; mobile cellular coverage is
primarily limited to the area in and around Djibouti city
international: country code - 253; landing point for the SEA-ME-WE-3
optical telecommunications submarine cable with links to Asia, the
Middle East, and Europe; satellite earth stations - 2 (1 Intelsat -
Indian Ocean and 1 Arabsat); Medarabtel regional microwave radio
relay telephone network (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 0 (2001)


Radios:

52,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (2001)


Televisions:

28,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.dj


Internet hosts:

161 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

11,000 (2006)


Transportation
Djibouti



Airports:

13 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 3
over 3,047 m: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 10
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 5
under 914 m: 3 (2007)


Railways:

total: 100 km (Djibouti segment of the Addis Ababa-Djibouti railway)
narrow gauge: 100 km 1.000-m gauge
note: railway under joint control of Djibouti and Ethiopia but
remains largely inoperable (2006)


Roadways:

total: 3,065 km
paved: 1,226 km
unpaved: 1,839 km (2000)


Ports and terminals:

Djibouti


Transportation - note:

the International Maritime Bureau reports offshore waters in the
Gulf of Aden are high risk for piracy; numerous vessels, including
commercial shipping and pleasure craft, have been attacked and
hijacked both at anchor and while underway; crew, passengers, and
cargo are held for ransom


Military
Djibouti



Military branches:

Djibouti National Army (includes Navy and Air Force)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service; 16-25 years of age
for voluntary military training; no conscription (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 111,274
females age 16-49: 105,168 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 54,460
females age 16-49: 51,684 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 5,618
female: 5,609 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

3.8% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Djibouti



Disputes - international:

Djibouti maintains economic ties and border accords with
"Somaliland" leadership while maintaining some political ties to
various factions in Somalia; Kuwait is chief investor in the 2008
restoration and upgrade of the Ethiopian-Djibouti rail link


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 8,642 (Somalia) (2007)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Dominica

Introduction
Dominica



Background:

Dominica was the last of the Caribbean islands to be colonized by
Europeans due chiefly to the fierce resistance of the native Caribs.
France ceded possession to Great Britain in 1763, which made the
island a colony in 1805. In 1980, two years after independence,
Dominica's fortunes improved when a corrupt and tyrannical
administration was replaced by that of Mary Eugenia CHARLES, the
first female prime minister in the Caribbean, who remained in office
for 15 years. Some 3,000 Carib Indians still living on Dominica are
the only pre-Columbian population remaining in the eastern Caribbean.


Geography
Dominica



Location:

Caribbean, island between the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic
Ocean, about half way between Puerto Rico and Trinidad and Tobago


Geographic coordinates:

15 25 N, 61 20 W


Map references:

Central America and the Caribbean


Area:

total: 754 sq km
land: 754 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly more than four times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

148 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; moderated by northeast trade winds; heavy rainfall


Terrain:

rugged mountains of volcanic origin


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
highest point: Morne Diablatins 1,447 m


Natural resources:

timber, hydropower, arable land


Land use:

arable land: 6.67%
permanent crops: 21.33%
other: 72% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Total renewable water resources:

NA


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.02 cu km/yr
per capita: 213 cu m/yr (1996)


Natural hazards:

flash floods are a constant threat; destructive hurricanes can be
expected during the late summer months


Environment - current issues:

NA


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

known as "The Nature Island of the Caribbean" due to its
spectacular, lush, and varied flora and fauna, which are protected
by an extensive natural park system; the most mountainous of the
Lesser Antilles, its volcanic peaks are cones of lava craters and
include Boiling Lake, the second-largest, thermally active lake in
the world


People
Dominica



Population:

72,514 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 24.7% (male 9,175/female 8,762)
15-64 years: 65.1% (male 24,192/female 22,995)
65 years and over: 10.2% (male 3,178/female 4,212) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 29.4 years
male: 29 years
female: 29.8 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.196% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

15.73 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

8.32 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-5.46 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.76 male(s)/female
total population: 1.02 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 14.12 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 19 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 9.01 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 75.33 years
male: 72.39 years
female: 78.41 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.1 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Dominican(s)
adjective: Dominican


Ethnic groups:

black 86.8%, mixed 8.9%, Carib Amerindian 2.9%, white 0.8%, other
0.7% (2001 census)


Religions:

Roman Catholic 61.4%, Seventh Day Adventist 6%, Pentecostal 5.6%,
Baptist 4.1%, Methodist 3.7%, Church of God 1.2%, Jehovah's
Witnesses 1.2%, other Christian 7.7%, Rastafarian 1.3%, other or
unspecified 1.6%, none 6.1% (2001 census)


Languages:

English (official), French patois


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over has ever attended school
total population: 94%
male: 94%
female: 94% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 13 years
male: 13 years
female: 14 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

5% of GDP (1999)


Government
Dominica



Country name:

conventional long form: Commonwealth of Dominica
conventional short form: Dominica


Government type:

parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Roseau
geographic coordinates: 15 18 N, 61 24 W
time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

10 parishes; Saint Andrew, Saint David, Saint George, Saint John,
Saint Joseph, Saint Luke, Saint Mark, Saint Patrick, Saint Paul,
Saint Peter


Independence:

3 November 1978 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 3 November (1978)


Constitution:

3 November 1978


Legal system:

based on English common law; accepts ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Nicholas J. O. LIVERPOOL (since October
2003)
head of government: Prime Minister Roosevelt SKERRIT (since 8
January 2004)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president on the advice of the
prime minister
elections: president elected by the House of Assembly for a
five-year term; election last held 1 October 2003 (next to be held
in October 2008); prime minister appointed by the president
election results: Nicholas LIVERPOOL elected president; percent of
legislative vote - NA%


Legislative branch:

unicameral House of Assembly (30 seats; 9 members appointed, 21
elected by popular vote; to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held 5 May 2005 (next to be held by 5 August 2010);
note - tradition dictates that the election will be held within five
years of the last election, but technically it is five years from
the first seating of parliament (12 May 2005) plus a 90-day grace
period
election results: percent of vote by party - DLP 52.1%, UWP 43.6%,
DFP 3.2%, other 1.1%; seats by party - DLP 12, UWP 8, independent 1


Judicial branch:

Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court, consisting of the Court of Appeal
and the High Court (located in Saint Lucia; one of the six judges
must reside in Dominica and preside over the Court of Summary
Jurisdiction)


Political parties and leaders:

Dominica Freedom Party or DFP [Charles SAVARIN]; Dominica Labor
Party or DLP [Roosevelt SKERRIT]; Dominica United Workers Party or
UWP [Earl WILLIAMS]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Dominica Liberation Movement or DLM (a small leftist party)


International organization participation:

ACCT, ACP, C, Caricom, CDB, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD,
IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, ISO (subscriber), ITU,
ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OAS, OECS, OIF, OPANAL, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); note - Judith Ann ROLLE
(Charge d'Affaires)
chancery: 3216 New Mexico Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20016
telephone: [1] (202) 364-6781
FAX: [1] (202) 364-6791
consulate(s) general: New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

the US does not have an embassy in Dominica; the US Ambassador to
Barbados is accredited to Dominica


Flag description:

green, with a centered cross of three equal bands - the vertical
part is yellow (hoist side), black, and white and the horizontal
part is yellow (top), black, and white; superimposed in the center
of the cross is a red disk bearing a sisserou parrot encircled by 10
green, five-pointed stars edged in yellow; the 10 stars represent
the 10 administrative divisions (parishes)


Economy
Dominica



Economy - overview:

The Dominican economy depends on agriculture, primarily bananas, and
remains highly vulnerable to climatic conditions and international
economic developments. Tourism has increased as the government seeks
to promote Dominica as an "ecotourism" destination. In 2003, the
government began a comprehensive restructuring of the economy -
including elimination of price controls, privatization of the state
banana company, and tax increases - to address Dominica's economic
and financial crisis of 2001-02 and to meet IMF targets. This
restructuring paved the way for the current economic recovery - real
growth for 2006 reached a two-decade high - and will help to reduce
the debt burden, which remains at about 100% of GDP. In order to
diversify the island's production base, the government is attempting
to develop an offshore financial sector and is researching
Dominica's capability to export geothermal energy.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$648 million (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$311 million (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

0.9% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$9,000 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 17.7%
industry: 32.8%
services: 49.5% (2004 est.)


Labor force:

25,000 (2000 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 40%
industry: 32%
services: 28% (2000 est.)


Unemployment rate:

23% (2000 est.)


Population below poverty line:

30% (2002 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $73.9 million
expenditures: $84.4 million (2001)


Fiscal year:

1 July - 30 June


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.7% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

6.5% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

9.17% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$73.71 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$269.1 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$193.1 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

bananas, citrus, mangoes, root crops, coconuts, cocoa; forest and
fishery potential not exploited


Industries:

soap, coconut oil, tourism, copra, furniture, cement blocks, shoes


Industrial production growth rate:

-10% (1997 est.)


Electricity - production:

90 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

83.7 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 47.1%
hydro: 52.9%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

850.5 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

669.6 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$72 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$94 million f.o.b. (2006)


Exports - commodities:

bananas, soap, bay oil, vegetables, grapefruit, oranges


Exports - partners:

China 24.4%, Jamaica 10.3%, Antigua and Barbuda 10.1%, Guyana 8.5%,
UK 8.2%, Trinidad and Tobago 5.5%, Saint Lucia 4.6%, Saint Kitts &
Nevis 4% (2007)


Imports:

$296 million f.o.b. (2006)


Imports - commodities:

manufactured goods, machinery and equipment, food, chemicals


Imports - partners:

US 24.1%, China 21.2%, Trinidad and Tobago 13.2%, Japan 11.1% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$15.17 million (2005 est.)


Debt - external:

$213 million (2004)


Currency (code):

East Caribbean dollar (XCD)


Currency code:

XCD


Exchange rates:

East Caribbean dollars (XCD) per US dollar - 2.7 (2007), 2.7 (2006),
2.7 (2005), 2.7 (2004), 2.7 (2003)


Communications
Dominica



Telephones - main lines in use:

21,000 (2004)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

41,800 (2004)


Telephone system:

general assessment: NA
domestic: fully automatic network
international: country code - 1-767; landing point for the East
Caribbean Fiber Optic System (ECFS) submarine cable with links to 13
other islands in the eastern Caribbean extending from the British
Virgin Islands to Trinidad; microwave radio relay and SHF
radiotelephone links to Martinique and Guadeloupe; VHF and UHF
radiotelephone links to Saint Lucia


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 2, FM 4, shortwave 0 (2003)


Radios:

46,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (2004)


Televisions:

6,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.dm


Internet hosts:

29 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

16 (2000)


Internet users:

26,500 (2006)


Transportation
Dominica



Airports:

2 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 2 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 780 km
paved: 393 km
unpaved: 387 km (2000)


Merchant marine:

total: 53
by type: bulk carrier 14, cargo 27, chemical tanker 3, petroleum
tanker 5, refrigerated cargo 2, roll on/roll off 1, vehicle carrier 1
foreign-owned: 47 (Australia 2, Estonia 7, Greece 10, India 2,
Latvia 1, Norway 1, Russia 3, Saudi Arabia 2, Singapore 7, Syria 2,
Turkey 5, Ukraine 4, UAE 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Portsmouth, Roseau


Military
Dominica



Military branches:

no regular military forces; Commonwealth of Dominica Police Force
(includes Coast Guard) (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 18,584 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 15,648 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 756
female: 713 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

NA (2006)


Transnational Issues
Dominica



Disputes - international:

Dominica is the only Caribbean state to challenge Venezuela's
sovereignty claim over Aves Island and joins the other island
nations in challenging whether the feature sustains human
habitation, a criterion under the UN Convention on the Law of the
Sea (UNCLOS), which permits Venezuela to extend its Exclusive
Economic Zone (EEZ) and continental shelf claims over a large
portion of the eastern Caribbean Sea


Illicit drugs:

transshipment point for narcotics bound for the US and Europe; minor
cannabis producer; anti-money-laundering enforcement is weak, making
the country particularly vulnerable to money laundering



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Dominican Republic

Introduction
Dominican Republic



Background:

Explored and claimed by Christopher COLUMBUS on his first voyage in
1492, the island of Hispaniola became a springboard for Spanish
conquest of the Caribbean and the American mainland. In 1697, Spain
recognized French dominion over the western third of the island,
which in 1804 became Haiti. The remainder of the island, by then
known as Santo Domingo, sought to gain its own independence in 1821,
but was conquered and ruled by the Haitians for 22 years; it finally
attained independence as the Dominican Republic in 1844. In 1861,
the Dominicans voluntarily returned to the Spanish Empire, but two
years later they launched a war that restored independence in 1865.
A legacy of unsettled, mostly non-representative rule followed,
capped by the dictatorship of Rafael Leonidas TRUJILLO from 1930-61.
Juan BOSCH was elected president in 1962, but was deposed in a
military coup in 1963. In 1965, the United States led an
intervention in the midst of a civil war sparked by an uprising to
restore BOSCH. In 1966, Joaquin BALAGUER defeated BOSCH in an
election to become president. BALAGUER maintained a tight grip on
power for most of the next 30 years when international reaction to
flawed elections forced him to curtail his term in 1996. Since then,
regular competitive elections have been held in which opposition
candidates have won the presidency. Former President (1996-2000)
Leonel FERNANDEZ Reyna won election to a second term in 2004
following a constitutional amendment allowing presidents to serve
more than one term.


Geography
Dominican Republic



Location:

Caribbean, eastern two-thirds of the island of Hispaniola, between
the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean, east of Haiti


Geographic coordinates:

19 00 N, 70 40 W


Map references:

Central America and the Caribbean


Area:

total: 48,730 sq km
land: 48,380 sq km
water: 350 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly more than twice the size of New Hampshire


Land boundaries:

total: 360 km
border countries: Haiti 360 km


Coastline:

1,288 km


Maritime claims:

measured from claimed archipelagic straight baselines
territorial sea: 6 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin


Climate:

tropical maritime; little seasonal temperature variation; seasonal
variation in rainfall


Terrain:

rugged highlands and mountains with fertile valleys interspersed


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Lago Enriquillo -46 m
highest point: Pico Duarte 3,175 m


Natural resources:

nickel, bauxite, gold, silver


Land use:

arable land: 22.49%
permanent crops: 10.26%
other: 67.25% (2005)


Irrigated land:

2,750 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

21 cu km (2000)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 3.39 cu km/yr (32%/2%/66%)
per capita: 381 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

lies in the middle of the hurricane belt and subject to severe
storms from June to October; occasional flooding; periodic droughts


Environment - current issues:

water shortages; soil eroding into the sea damages coral reefs;
deforestation


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection,
Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea


Geography - note:

shares island of Hispaniola with Haiti


People
Dominican Republic



Population:

9,507,133 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 31.8% (male 1,537,981/female 1,482,546)
15-64 years: 62.4% (male 3,029,349/female 2,905,471)
65 years and over: 5.8% (male 255,898/female 295,888) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 24.7 years
male: 24.6 years
female: 24.8 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.495% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

22.65 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

5.3 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-2.4 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.04 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.86 male(s)/female
total population: 1.03 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 26.93 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 29.01 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 24.78 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 73.39 years
male: 71.61 years
female: 75.24 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.78 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

1.7% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

88,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

7,900 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria
water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Dominican(s)
adjective: Dominican


Ethnic groups:

mixed 73%, white 16%, black 11%


Religions:

Roman Catholic 95%, other 5%


Languages:

Spanish


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 87%
male: 86.8%
female: 87.2% (2002 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 12 years
male: 12 years
female: 13 years (2004)


Education expenditures:

3.6% of GDP (2006)


Government
Dominican Republic



Country name:

conventional long form: Dominican Republic
conventional short form: The Dominican
local long form: Republica Dominicana
local short form: La Dominicana


Government type:

democratic republic


Capital:

name: Santo Domingo
geographic coordinates: 18 28 N, 69 54 W
time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

31 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia) and 1 district*
(distrito); Azua, Bahoruco, Barahona, Dajabon, Distrito Nacional*,
Duarte, El Seibo, Elias Pina, Espaillat, Hato Mayor, Independencia,
La Altagracia, La Romana, La Vega, Maria Trinidad Sanchez, Monsenor
Nouel, Monte Cristi, Monte Plata, Pedernales, Peravia, Puerto Plata,
Salcedo, Samana, San Cristobal, San Jose de Ocoa, San Juan, San
Pedro de Macoris, Sanchez Ramirez, Santiago, Santiago Rodriguez,
Santo Domingo, Valverde


Independence:

27 February 1844 (from Haiti)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 27 February (1844)


Constitution:

28 November 1966; amended 25 July 2002


Legal system:

based on French civil codes; Criminal Procedures Code modified in
2004 to include important elements of an accusatory system; accepts
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age, universal and compulsory; married persons
regardless of age; note - members of the armed forces and national
police cannot vote


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Leonel FERNANDEZ Reyna (since 16 August
2004); Vice President Rafael ALBURQUERQUE de Castro (since 16 August
2004); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government
head of government: President Leonel FERNANDEZ Reyna (since 16
August 2004); Vice President Rafael ALBURQUERQUE de Castro (since 16
August 2004)
cabinet: Cabinet nominated by the president
elections: president and vice president elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for four-year terms (eligible for a second
consecutive term); election last held 16 May 2008 (next to be held
in May 2012)
election results: Leonel FERNANDEZ reelected president; percent of
vote - Leonel FERNANDEZ 53.6%, Miguel VARGAS 41%, Amable ARISTY less
than 5%


Legislative branch:

bicameral National Congress or Congreso Nacional consists of the
Senate or Senado (32 seats; members are elected by popular vote to
serve four-year terms) and the House of Representatives or Camara de
Diputados (178 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
four-year terms)
elections: Senate - last held 16 May 2006 (next to be held in May
2010); House of Representatives - last held 16 May 2006 (next to be
held in May 2010)
election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - PLD 22, PRD 6, PRSC 4; House of Representatives - percent of
vote by party - NA; seats by party - PLD 96, PRD 60, PRSC 22


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (judges are appointed by the National
Judicial Council comprised of the president, the leaders of both
chambers of congress, the president of the Supreme Court, and an
additional non-governing party congressional representative)


Political parties and leaders:

Dominican Liberation Party or PLD [Leonel FERNANDEZ Reyna];
Dominican Revolutionary Party or PRD [Ramon ALBURQUERQUE]; National
Progressive Front [Vincent CASTILLO, Pelegrin CASTILLO]; Social
Christian Reformist Party or PRSC [Enrique ANTUN]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Citizen Participation Group (Participacion Ciudadania); Collective
of Popular Organizations or COP; Foundation for Institution-Building
and Justice (FINJUS)


International organization participation:

ACP, BCIE, Caricom (observer), FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO (suspended), ILO, IMF,
IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC,
LAES, LAIA (observer), MIGA, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW (signatory),
PCA, RG, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNWTO, UPU, WCL,
WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Flavio Dario ESPINAL Jacobo
chancery: 1715 22nd Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 332-6280
FAX: [1] (202) 265-8057
consulate(s) general: Anchorage, Boston, Chicago, Mayaguez (Puerto
Rico), Miami, New Orleans, New York, San Francisco, San Juan (Puerto
Rico)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador P. Robert FANNIN
embassy: corner of Calle Cesar Nicolas Penson and Calle Leopoldo
Navarro, Santo Domingo
mailing address: Unit 5500, APO AA 34041-5500
telephone: [1] (809) 221-2171
FAX: [1] (809) 686-7437


Flag description:

a centered white cross that extends to the edges divides the flag
into four rectangles - the top ones are blue (hoist side) and red,
and the bottom ones are red (hoist side) and blue; a small coat of
arms featuring a shield supported by an olive branch (left) and a
palm branch (right) is at the center of the cross; above the shield
a blue ribbon displays the motto, DIOS, PATRIA, LIBERTAD (God,
Fatherland, Liberty), and below the shield, REPUBLICA DOMINICANA
appears on a red ribbon


Economy
Dominican Republic



Economy - overview:

The Dominican Republic has enjoyed strong GDP growth since 2005,
with double digit growth in 2006. In 2007, exports were bolstered by
the nearly 50% increase in nickel prices; however, prices are
expected to fall in 2008, contributing to a slowdown in GDP growth
for the year. Although the country has long been viewed primarily as
an exporter of sugar, coffee, and tobacco, in recent years the
service sector has overtaken agriculture as the economy's largest
employer due to growth in tourism and free trade zones. The economy
is highly dependent upon the US, the source of nearly three-fourths
of exports, and remittances represent about a tenth of GDP,
equivalent to almost half of exports and three-quarters of tourism
receipts. With the help of strict fiscal targets agreed to in the
2004 renegotiation of an IMF standby loan, President FERNANDEZ has
stabilized the country's financial situation, lowering inflation to
less than 6%. A fiscal expansion is expected for 2008 prior to the
elections in May and for Tropical Storm Noel reconstruction.
Although the economy is growing at a respectable rate, high
unemployment and underemployment remains an important challenge. The
country suffers from marked income inequality; the poorest half of
the population receives less than one-fifth of GNP, while the
richest 10% enjoys nearly 40% of national income. The Central
America-Dominican Republic Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA-DR) came into
force in March 2007, which should boost investment and exports and
reduce losses to the Asian garment industry.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$61.67 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$36.4 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

8.5% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$6,600 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 11.7%
industry: 23.8%
services: 64.4% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

4.027 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 17%
industry: 24.3%
services: 58.7% (1998 est.)


Unemployment rate:

15.6% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

42.2% (2004)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 1.4%
highest 10%: 41.1% (2004)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

51.6 (2004)


Investment (gross fixed):

18.8% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $7.423 billion
expenditures: $7.259 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

41% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

6.1% (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

15.83% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$4.074 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$5.631 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$15.92 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

sugarcane, coffee, cotton, cocoa, tobacco, rice, beans, potatoes,
corn, bananas; cattle, pigs, dairy products, beef, eggs


Industries:

tourism, sugar processing, ferronickel and gold mining, textiles,
cement, tobacco


Industrial production growth rate:

2.4% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

13.37 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

11.81 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 92%
hydro: 7.6%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0.4% (2001)


Oil - production:

12 bbl/day (2004)


Oil - consumption:

117,300 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

116,600 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

250 million cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

239.8 million cu m (2005)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$2.231 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$7.237 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

ferronickel, sugar, gold, silver, coffee, cocoa, tobacco, meats,
consumer goods


Exports - partners:

US 66.4%, Belgium 3.7%, Finland 3.2% (2007)


Imports:

$13.82 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

foodstuffs, petroleum, cotton and fabrics, chemicals and
pharmaceuticals


Imports - partners:

US 46%, Venezuela 8.1%, Mexico 5.9%, Colombia 4.7% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$76.99 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$2.562 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$10.21 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$12.75 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$59 million (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Dominican peso (DOP)


Currency code:

DOP


Exchange rates:

Dominican pesos (DOP) per US dollar - 33.113 (2007), 33.406 (2006),
30.409 (2005), 42.12 (2004), 30.831 (2003)


Communications
Dominican Republic



Telephones - main lines in use:

907,000 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

5.513 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: relatively efficient system based on island-wide
microwave radio relay network
domestic: fixed telephone line density is about 10 per 100 persons;
multiple providers of mobile cellular service with a subscribership
of roughly 60 per 100 persons
international: country code - 1-809; landing point for the Americas
Region Caribbean Ring System (ARCOS-1) fiber-optic
telecommunications submarine cable that provides links to South and
Central America, parts of the Caribbean, and US; satellite earth
station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 120, FM 56, shortwave 4 (1998)


Radios:

1.44 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

25 (2003)


Televisions:

770,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.do


Internet hosts:

105,546 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

24 (2000)


Internet users:

1.677 million (2007)


Transportation
Dominican Republic



Airports:

34 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 15
over 3,047 m: 3
2,438 to 3,047 m: 4
1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
914 to 1,523 m: 3
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 19
1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
914 to 1,523 m: 5
under 914 m: 11 (2007)


Railways:

total: 517 km
standard gauge: 375 km 1.435-m gauge
narrow gauge: 142 km 0.762-m gauge
note: additional 1,226 km operated by sugar companies in 1.076 m,
0.889 m, and 0.762-m gauges (2006)


Roadways:

total: 19,705 km
paved: 9,872 km
unpaved: 9,833 km (2002)


Merchant marine:

total: 1
by type: cargo 1
registered in other countries: 1 (Panama 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Boca Chica, Caucedo, Puerto Plata, Rio Haina, Santo Domingo


Military
Dominican Republic



Military branches:

Army, Navy, Air Force (Fuerza Aerea Dominicana, FAD) (2007)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service (2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,440,203
females age 16-49: 2,326,694 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,020,490
females age 16-49: 1,883,875 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 96,971
female: 93,116 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0.8% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Dominican Republic



Disputes - international:

Haitian migrants cross the porous border into the Dominican Republic
to find work; illegal migrants from the Dominican Republic cross the
Mona Passage each year to Puerto Rico to find better work


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: the Dominican Republic is a source, transit, and
destination country for men, women, and children trafficked for the
purposes of commercial sexual exploitation and forced labor; a large
number of Dominican women are trafficked into prostitution and
sexual exploitation in Western Europe, Australia, Central and South
America, and Caribbean destinations; a significant number of women,
boys, and girls are trafficked within the country for sexual
exploitation and domestic servitude
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - for a second consecutive year, the
Dominican Republic is on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to
show evidence of increasing efforts to combat human trafficking,
particularly in terms of not adequately investigating and
prosecuting public officials who may be complicit with trafficking
activity, and inadequate government efforts to protect trafficking
victims; the government has taken measures to reduce demand for
commercial sex acts with children through criminal prosecutions
(2008)


Illicit drugs:

transshipment point for South American drugs destined for the US and
Europe; has become a transshipment point for ecstasy from the
Netherlands and Belgium destined for US and Canada; substantial
money laundering activity; Colombian narcotics traffickers favor the
Dominican Republic for illicit financial transactions; significant
amphetamine consumption



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Ecuador

Introduction
Ecuador



Background:

What is now Ecuador formed part of the northern Inca Empire until
the Spanish conquest in 1533. Quito became a seat of Spanish
colonial government in 1563 and part of the Viceroyalty of New
Granada in 1717. The territories of the Viceroyalty - New Granada
(Colombia), Venezuela, and Quito - gained their independence between
1819 and 1822 and formed a federation known as Gran Colombia. When
Quito withdrew in 1830, the traditional name was changed in favor of
the "Republic of the Equator." Between 1904 and 1942, Ecuador lost
territories in a series of conflicts with its neighbors. A border
war with Peru that flared in 1995 was resolved in 1999. Although
Ecuador marked 25 years of civilian governance in 2004, the period
has been marred by political instability. Protests in Quito have
contributed to the mid-term ouster of Ecuador's last three
democratically elected Presidents. In 2007, a Constituent Assembly
was elected to draft a new constitution; Ecuador's twentieth since
gaining independence.


Geography
Ecuador



Location:

Western South America, bordering the Pacific Ocean at the Equator,
between Colombia and Peru


Geographic coordinates:

2 00 S, 77 30 W


Map references:

South America


Area:

total: 283,560 sq km
land: 276,840 sq km
water: 6,720 sq km
note: includes Galapagos Islands


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Nevada


Land boundaries:

total: 2,010 km
border countries: Colombia 590 km, Peru 1,420 km


Coastline:

2,237 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 200 nm
continental shelf: 100 nm from 2,500-m isobath


Climate:

tropical along coast, becoming cooler inland at higher elevations;
tropical in Amazonian jungle lowlands


Terrain:

coastal plain (costa), inter-Andean central highlands (sierra), and
flat to rolling eastern jungle (oriente)


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: Chimborazo 6,267 m


Natural resources:

petroleum, fish, timber, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 5.71%
permanent crops: 4.81%
other: 89.48% (2005)


Irrigated land:

8,650 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

432 cu km (2000)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 16.98 cu km/yr (12%/5%/82%)
per capita: 1,283 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

frequent earthquakes, landslides, volcanic activity; floods;
periodic droughts


Environment - current issues:

deforestation; soil erosion; desertification; water pollution;
pollution from oil production wastes in ecologically sensitive areas
of the Amazon Basin and Galapagos Islands


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic Treaty,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

Cotopaxi in Andes is highest active volcano in world


People
Ecuador



Population:

13,927,650 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 32.1% (male 2,274,986/female 2,189,437)
15-64 years: 62.7% (male 4,355,909/female 4,381,141)
65 years and over: 5.2% (male 340,861/female 385,316) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 24.2 years
male: 23.7 years
female: 24.7 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.935% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

21.54 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

4.21 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-7.98 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.88 male(s)/female
total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 21.35 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 25.61 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 16.88 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 76.81 years
male: 73.94 years
female: 79.84 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.59 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.3% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

21,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

1,700 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: dengue fever, malaria, and yellow fever
water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Ecuadorian(s)
adjective: Ecuadorian


Ethnic groups:

mestizo (mixed Amerindian and white) 65%, Amerindian 25%, Spanish
and others 7%, black 3%


Religions:

Roman Catholic 95%, other 5%


Languages:

Spanish (official), Amerindian languages (especially Quechua)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 91%
male: 92.3%
female: 89.7% (2001 census)


Education expenditures:

1% of GDP (2001)


Government
Ecuador



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Ecuador
conventional short form: Ecuador
local long form: Republica del Ecuador
local short form: Ecuador


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Quito
geographic coordinates: 0 13 S, 78 30 W
time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard
Time)


Administrative divisions:

24 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia); Azuay, Bolivar,
Canar, Carchi, Chimborazo, Cotopaxi, El Oro, Esmeraldas, Galapagos,
Guayas, Imbabura, Loja, Los Rios, Manabi, Morona-Santiago, Napo,
Orellana, Pastaza, Pichincha, Santa Elena, Santo Domingo de los
Tsachilas, Sucumbios, Tungurahua, Zamora-Chinchipe


Independence:

24 May 1822 (from Spain)


National holiday:

Independence Day (independence of Quito), 10 August (1809)


Constitution:

10 August 1998


Legal system:

based on civil law system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal, compulsory for literate persons ages
18-65, optional for other eligible voters


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Rafael CORREA Delgado (since 15 January
2007); Vice President Lenin MORENO Garces (since 15 January 2007);
note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government
head of government: President Rafael CORREA Delgado (since 15
January 2007); Vice President Lenin MORENO Garces (since 15 January
2007)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president
elections: the president and vice president are elected on the same
ticket by popular vote for a four-year term (may not serve
consecutive terms); election last held 15 October 2006 with a runoff
election on 26 November 2006 (next to be held in October 2010)
election results: Rafael CORREA Delgado elected president; percent
of vote - Rafael CORREA Delgado 56.7%; Alvaro NOBOA 43.3%


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Congress or Congreso Nacional (100 seats;
members are elected through a party-list proportional representation
system to serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 15 October 2006 (next to be held in October
2010)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
PRIAN 28; PSP 24; PSC 13; ID 7; PRE 6; MUPP-NP 6; RED 5; UDC 5;
other 6; note - defections by members of National Congress are
commonplace, resulting in frequent changes in the numbers of seats
held by the various parties; as of 29 November 2007, Congress is on
indefinite recess while a Constituent Assembly is convened


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (according to the Constitution, new
justices are elected by the full Supreme Court; in December 2004,
however, Congress successfully replaced the entire court via a
simple-majority resolution)


Political parties and leaders:

Alianza PAIS Movement [Rafael Vicente CORREA Delgado]; Christian
Democratic Union or UDC [Diego ORDONEZ Guerrero]; Democratic Left or
ID [Andres PAEZ Benalcazar]; Ethical and Democratic Network or RED
[Leon ROLDOS]; Institutional Renewal and National Action Party or
PRIAN [Alvaro NOBOA]; Pachakutik Plurinational Unity Movement - New
Country or MUPP-NP [Jorge GUAMAN]; Patriotic Society Party or PSP
[Lucio GUTIERREZ Borbua]; Popular Democratic Movement or MPD [Ciro
GUZMAN Aldaz]; Roldosist Party or PRE [Abdala BUCARAM Ortiz,
director]; Social Christian Party or PSC [Pascual DEL CIOPPO];
Socialist Party - Broad Front or PS-FA [Gustavo AYALA Cruz]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador or CONAIE
[Marlon SANTI, president]; Coordinator of Social Movements or CMS
[F. Napoleon SANTOS]; Federation of Indigenous Evangelists of
Ecuador or FEINE [Marco MURILLO, president]; National Federation of
Indigenous Afro-Ecuatorianos and Peasants or FENOCIN [Pedro DE LA
CRUZ, president]


International organization participation:

CAN, FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD,
IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO,
ITU, ITUC, LAES, LAIA, Mercosur (associate), MIGA, MINURCAT,
MINUSTAH, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, OPEC, PCA, RG, UN, UNASUR, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU,
WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Luis Benigno GALLEGOS Chiriboga
chancery: 2535 15th Street NW, Washington, DC 20009
telephone: [1] (202) 234-7200
FAX: [1] (202) 667-3482
consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Denver,
Houston, Jersey City (New Jersey), Los Angeles, Miami, New Orleans,
New York, San Francisco, San Juan (Puerto Rico), Washington, DC


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Heather HODGES
embassy: Avenida Avigiras E12-170 y Avenida Eloy Alfaro, Quito
mailing address: Avenida Guayacanes N52-205 y Avenida Avigiras
telephone: [593] (2) 398-5000
FAX: [593] (2) 398-5100
consulate(s) general: Guayaquil


Flag description:

three horizontal bands of yellow (top, double width), blue, and red
with the coat of arms superimposed at the center of the flag;
similar to the flag of Colombia, which is shorter and does not bear
a coat of arms


Economy
Ecuador



Economy - overview:

Ecuador is substantially dependent on its petroleum resources, which
have accounted for more than half of the country's export earnings
and one-fourth of public sector revenues in recent years. In
1999/2000, Ecuador suffered a severe economic crisis, with GDP
contracted by more than 6%, with a significant increase in poverty.
The banking system also collapsed, and Ecuador defaulted on its
external debt later that year. In March 2000, Congress approved a
series of structural reforms that also provided for the adoption of
the US dollar as legal tender. Dollarization stabilized the economy,
and positive growth returned in the years that followed, helped by
high oil prices, remittances, and increased non-traditional exports.
From 2002-06 the economy grew 5.5%, the highest five-year average in
25 years. The poverty rate declined but remained high at 38% in
2006. In 2006 the government of Alfredo PALACIO (2005-07) seized the
assets of Occidental Petroleum for alleged contract violations and
imposed a windfall revenue tax on foreign oil companies, leading to
the suspension of free trade negotiations with the US. These
measures, combined with chronic underinvestment in the state oil
company, Petroecuador, led to a drop in petroleum production in
2007. PALACIO's successor, Rafael CORREA, raised the specter of debt
default - but Ecuador has paid its debt on time. He also decreed a
higher windfall revenue tax on private oil companies, then sought to
renegotiate their contracts to overcome the debilitating effect of
the tax. This generated economic uncertainty; private investment has
dropped and economic growth has slowed significantly.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$98.71 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$44.18 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

2% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$7,200 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 6.7%
industry: 35.1%
services: 58.2% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

4.51 million (urban) (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 8%
industry: 24%
services: 68% (2001)


Unemployment rate:

8.8% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

38.3% (2006)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2%
highest 10%: 35%
note: data for urban households only (October 2006)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

46
note: data are for urban households (2006)


Investment (gross fixed):

21.9% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $13.46 billion
expenditures: planned $11.96 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

33.1% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.3% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

10.72% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

12.08% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$4.395 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$7.974 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$8.926 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

bananas, coffee, cocoa, rice, potatoes, manioc (tapioca), plantains,
sugarcane; cattle, sheep, pigs, beef, pork, dairy products; balsa
wood; fish, shrimp


Industries:

petroleum, food processing, textiles, wood products, chemicals


Industrial production growth rate:

1.4% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

14.84 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

12.9 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

38.53 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - imports:

861 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 81%
hydro: 19%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

511,600 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

160,500 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

421,700 bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - imports:

47,060 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

4.517 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

280 million cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

280 million cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

9.369 billion cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

$1.064 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$14.37 billion (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

petroleum, bananas, cut flowers, shrimp, cacao, coffee, hemp, wood,
fish


Exports - partners:

US 41.9%, Peru 8.5%, Chile 4.9%, Russia 4.8%, Colombia 4.7% (2007)


Imports:

$12.76 billion (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

industrial materials, fuels and lubricants, nondurable consumer goods


Imports - partners:

US 23.7%, Colombia 10.3%, China 7.6%, Brazil 5.3%, Japan 4.3% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$209.5 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$3.521 billion (30 November 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$17.12 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$16.31 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$1.456 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$4.04 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

US dollar (USD)


Currency code:

USD


Exchange rates:

the US dollar is used; the sucre was eliminated in 2000


Communications
Ecuador



Telephones - main lines in use:

1.805 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

10.086 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: generally elementary but being expanded
domestic: fixed-line services provided by three state-owned
enterprises; plans to transfer the state-owned operators to private
ownership have repeatedly failed; fixed-line density stands at about
13 per 100 persons; mobile cellular use has surged and has a
subscribership of nearly 75 per 100 persons
international: country code - 593; landing point for the PAN-AM
submarine telecommunications cable that provides links to the west
coast of South America, Panama, Colombia, Venezuela, and extending
onward to Aruba and the US Virgin Islands in the Caribbean;
satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 392, FM 35, shortwave 29 (2001)


Radios:

5 million (2001)


Television broadcast stations:

7 (plus 14 repeaters) (2000)


Televisions:

2.5 million (2001)


Internet country code:

.ec


Internet hosts:

45,404 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

31 (2001)


Internet users:

1.549 million (2006)


Transportation
Ecuador



Airports:

406 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 104
over 3,047 m: 4
2,438 to 3,047 m: 3
1,524 to 2,437 m: 17
914 to 1,523 m: 26
under 914 m: 54 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 302
914 to 1,523 m: 34
under 914 m: 268 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Pipelines:

extra heavy crude oil 578 km; gas 71 km; oil 1,389 km; refined
products 1,185 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 966 km
narrow gauge: 966 km 1.067-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 43,670 km
paved: 6,472 km
unpaved: 37,198 km (2006)


Waterways:

1,500 km (most inaccessible) (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 37
by type: cargo 1, chemical tanker 1, liquefied gas 1, passenger 8,
petroleum tanker 24, refrigerated cargo 1, specialized tanker 1
foreign-owned: 1 (US 1)
registered in other countries: 5 (China 1, Panama 4) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Esmeraldas, Guayaquil, Manta, Puerto Bolivar


Military
Ecuador



Military branches:

Army, Navy (includes Naval Infantry, Naval Aviation, Coast Guard),
Air Force (Fuerza Aerea Ecuatoriana, FAE) (2007)


Military service age and obligation:

20 years of age for selective conscript military service; 12-month
service obligation (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 3,536,602
females age 16-49: 3,559,188 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 3,030,664
females age 16-49: 3,037,892 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 144,821
female: 139,091 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

2.8% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Ecuador



Disputes - international:

organized illegal narcotics operations in Colombia penetrate across
Ecuador's shared border, which thousands of Colombians also cross to
escape the violence in their home country


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 11,526 (Colombia); note - UNHCR
estimates as many as 250,000 Columbians are seeking asylum in
Ecuador, many of whom do not register as refugees for fear of
deportation (2007)


Illicit drugs:

significant transit country for cocaine originating in Colombia and
Peru, with over half of the US-bound cocaine passing through
Ecuadorian Pacific waters; importer of precursor chemicals used in
production of illicit narcotics; attractive location for
cash-placement by drug traffickers laundering money because of
dollarization and weak anti-money-laundering regime; increased
activity on the northern frontier by trafficking groups and
Colombian insurgents



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Egypt

Introduction
Egypt



Background:

The regularity and richness of the annual Nile River flood, coupled
with semi-isolation provided by deserts to the east and west,
allowed for the development of one of the world's great
civilizations. A unified kingdom arose circa 3200 B.C., and a series
of dynasties ruled in Egypt for the next three millennia. The last
native dynasty fell to the Persians in 341 B.C., who in turn were
replaced by the Greeks, Romans, and Byzantines. It was the Arabs who
introduced Islam and the Arabic language in the 7th century and who
ruled for the next six centuries. A local military caste, the
Mamluks took control about 1250 and continued to govern after the
conquest of Egypt by the Ottoman Turks in 1517. Following the
completion of the Suez Canal in 1869, Egypt became an important
world transportation hub, but also fell heavily into debt.
Ostensibly to protect its investments, Britain seized control of
Egypt's government in 1882, but nominal allegiance to the Ottoman
Empire continued until 1914. Partially independent from the UK in
1922, Egypt acquired full sovereignty with the overthrow of the
British-backed monarchy in 1952. The completion of the Aswan High
Dam in 1971 and the resultant Lake Nasser have altered the
time-honored place of the Nile River in the agriculture and ecology
of Egypt. A rapidly growing population (the largest in the Arab
world), limited arable land, and dependence on the Nile all continue
to overtax resources and stress society. The government has
struggled to meet the demands of Egypt's growing population through
economic reform and massive investment in communications and
physical infrastructure.


Geography
Egypt



Location:

Northern Africa, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between Libya and
the Gaza Strip, and the Red Sea north of Sudan, and includes the
Asian Sinai Peninsula


Geographic coordinates:

27 00 N, 30 00 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 1,001,450 sq km
land: 995,450 sq km
water: 6,000 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly more than three times the size of New Mexico


Land boundaries:

total: 2,665 km
border countries: Gaza Strip 11 km, Israel 266 km, Libya 1,115 km,
Sudan 1,273 km


Coastline:

2,450 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 m depth or to the depth of exploitation


Climate:

desert; hot, dry summers with moderate winters


Terrain:

vast desert plateau interrupted by Nile valley and delta


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Qattara Depression -133 m
highest point: Mount Catherine 2,629 m


Natural resources:

petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, phosphates, manganese, limestone,
gypsum, talc, asbestos, lead, zinc


Land use:

arable land: 2.92%
permanent crops: 0.5%
other: 96.58% (2005)


Irrigated land:

34,220 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

86.8 cu km (1997)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 68.3 cu km/yr (8%/6%/86%)
per capita: 923 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

periodic droughts; frequent earthquakes, flash floods, landslides;
hot, driving windstorm called khamsin occurs in spring; dust storms,
sandstorms


Environment - current issues:

agricultural land being lost to urbanization and windblown sands;
increasing soil salination below Aswan High Dam; desertification;
oil pollution threatening coral reefs, beaches, and marine habitats;
other water pollution from agricultural pesticides, raw sewage, and
industrial effluents; limited natural fresh water resources away
from the Nile, which is the only perennial water source; rapid
growth in population overstraining the Nile and natural resources


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
Timber 94, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

controls Sinai Peninsula, only land bridge between Africa and
remainder of Eastern Hemisphere; controls Suez Canal, a sea link
between Indian Ocean and Mediterranean Sea; size, and juxtaposition
to Israel, establish its major role in Middle Eastern geopolitics;
dependence on upstream neighbors; dominance of Nile basin issues;
prone to influxes of refugees


People
Egypt



Population:

81,713,520 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 31.8% (male 13,292,961/female 12,690,711)
15-64 years: 63.5% (male 26,257,440/female 25,627,390)
65 years and over: 4.7% (male 1,636,560/female 2,208,455) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 24.5 years
male: 24.1 years
female: 24.9 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.682% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

22.12 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

5.09 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-0.21 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.74 male(s)/female
total population: 1.02 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 28.36 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 30.06 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 26.57 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 71.85 years
male: 69.3 years
female: 74.52 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.72 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

less than 0.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

12,000 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

700 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: intermediate
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever
water contact disease: schistosomiasis
note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Egyptian(s)
adjective: Egyptian


Ethnic groups:

Egyptian 99.6%, other 0.4% (2006 census)


Religions:

Muslim (mostly Sunni) 90%, Coptic 9%, other Christian 1%


Languages:

Arabic (official), English and French widely understood by educated
classes


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 71.4%
male: 83%
female: 59.4% (2005 est.)


Education expenditures:

4.2% of GDP (2006)


Government
Egypt



Country name:

conventional long form: Arab Republic of Egypt
conventional short form: Egypt
local long form: Jumhuriyat Misr al-Arabiyah
local short form: Misr
former: United Arab Republic (with Syria)


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Cairo
geographic coordinates: 30 03 N, 31 15 E
time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Friday in April; ends last
Thursday in September


Administrative divisions:

26 governorates (muhafazat, singular - muhafazah); Ad Daqahliyah, Al
Bahr al Ahmar (Red Sea), Al Buhayrah (El Beheira), Al Fayyum (El
Faiyum), Al Gharbiyah, Al Iskandariyah (Alexandria), Al Isma'iliyah
(Ismailia), Al Jizah (Giza), Al Minufiyah (El Monofia), Al Minya, Al
Qahirah (Cairo), Al Qalyubiyah, Al Wadi al Jadid (New Valley), As
Suways (Suez), Ash Sharqiyah, Aswan, Asyut, Bani Suwayf (Beni Suef),
Bur Sa'id (Port Said), Dumyat (Damietta), Janub Sina' (South Sinai),
Kafr ash Shaykh, Matruh (Western Desert), Qina (Qena), Shamal Sina'
(North Sinai), Suhaj (Sohag)


Independence:

28 February 1922 (from UK)


National holiday:

Revolution Day, 23 July (1952)


Constitution:

11 September 1971; amended 22 May 1980, 25 May 2005, and 26 March
2007


Legal system:

based on Islamic and civil law (particularly Napoleonic codes);
judicial review by Supreme Court and Council of State (oversees
validity of administrative decisions); accepts compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal and compulsory


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Mohamed Hosni MUBARAK (since 14 October
1981)
head of government: Prime Minister Ahmed Mohamed NAZIF (since 9 July
2004)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president
elections: president elected by popular vote for six-year term (no
term limits); note - a national referendum in May 2005 approved a
constitutional amendment that changed the presidential election to a
multicandidate popular vote; previously the president was nominated
by the People's Assembly and the nomination was validated by a
national, popular referendum; last referendum held 26 September
1999; first election under terms of constitutional amendment held 7
September 2005; next election scheduled for 2011
election results: Hosni MUBARAK reelected president; percent of vote
- Hosni MUBARAK 88.6%, Ayman NOUR 7.6%, Noman GOMAA 2.9%


Legislative branch:

bicameral system consists of the People's Assembly or Majlis
al-Sha'b (454 seats; 444 elected by popular vote, 10 appointed by
the president; members serve five-year terms) and the Advisory
Council or Majlis al-Shura that traditionally functions only in a
consultative role but 2007 constitutional amendments could grant the
Council new powers (264 seats; 176 elected by popular vote, 88
appointed by the president; members serve six-year terms; mid-term
elections for half of the elected members)
elections: People's Assembly - three-phase voting - last held 7 and
20 November, 1 December 2005;(next to be held November-December
2010); Advisory Council - last held June 2007 (next to be held
May-June 2010)
election results: People's Assembly - percent of vote by party - NA;
seats by party - NDP 311, NWP 6, Tagammu 2, Tomorrow Party 1,
independents 112 (12 seats to be determined by rerun elections, 10
seats appointed by President); Advisory Council - percent of vote by
party - NA; seats by party - NDP 84, Tagammu 1, independents 3


Judicial branch:

Supreme Constitutional Court


Political parties and leaders:

National Democratic Party or NDP (governing party) [Mohamed Hosni
MUBARAK]; National Progressive Unionist Grouping or Tagammu [Rifaat
EL-SAID]; New Wafd Party or NWP [Mahmoud ABAZA]; Tomorrow Party
[Moussa Mustafa MOUSSA]
note: formation of political parties must be approved by the
government; only parties with representation in elected bodies are
listed


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Muslim Brotherhood (technically illegal)
note: despite a constitutional ban against religious-based parties
and political activity, the technically illegal Muslim Brotherhood
constitutes Hosni MUBARAK's potentially most significant political
opposition


International organization participation:

ABEDA, ACCT, AfDB, AFESD, AMF, AU, BSEC (observer), CAEU, COMESA,
EBRD, FAO, G-15, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt
(signatory), ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, LAS, MIGA, MINURCAT,
MINURSO, MONUC, NAM, OAPEC, OAS (observer), OIC, OIF, OSCE
(partner), PCA, UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIL,
UNMIS, UNOMIG, UNRWA, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador (designate) Sameh SHOUKRY
chancery: 3521 International Court NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 895-5400
FAX: [1] (202) 244-4319
consulate(s) general: Chicago, Houston, New York, San Francisco


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Margaret SCOBEY
embassy: 8 Kamal El Din Salah St., Garden City, Cairo
mailing address: Unit 64900, Box 15, APO AE 09839-4900; 5 Tawfik
Diab Street, Garden City, Cairo
telephone: [20] (2) 2797-3300
FAX: [20] (2) 2797-3200


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and black; the
national emblem (a gold Eagle of Saladin facing the hoist side with
a shield superimposed on its chest above a scroll bearing the name
of the country in Arabic) centered in the white band; design is
based on the Arab Liberation flag and similar to the flag of Syria,
which has two green stars in the white band, Iraq, which has an
Arabic inscription centered in the white band, and Yemen, which has
a plain white band


Economy
Egypt



Economy - overview:

Occupying the northeast corner of the African continent, Egypt is
bisected by the highly fertile Nile valley, where most economic
activity takes place. In the last 30 years, the government has
reformed the highly centralized economy it inherited from President
Gamel Abdel NASSER. In 2005, Prime Minister Ahmed NAZIF's government
reduced personal and corporate tax rates, reduced energy subsidies,
and privatized several enterprises. The stock market boomed, and GDP
grew about 5% per year in 2005-06, and topped 7% in 2007. Despite
these achievements, the government has failed to raise living
standards for the average Egyptian, and has had to continue
providing subsidies for basic necessities. The subsidies have
contributed to a sizeable budget deficit - roughly 7.5% of GDP in
2007 - and represent a significant drain on the economy. Foreign
direct investment has increased significantly in the past two years,
but the NAZIF government will need to continue its aggressive
pursuit of reforms in order to sustain the spike in investment and
growth and begin to improve economic conditions for the broader
population. Egypt's export sectors - particularly natural gas - have
bright prospects.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$405.4 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$127.9 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

7.1% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$5,000 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 13.8%
industry: 38.1%
services: 48% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

22.1 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 32%
industry: 17%
services: 51% (2001 est.)


Unemployment rate:

9.1% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

20% (2005 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 3.7%
highest 10%: 29.5% (2000)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

34.4 (2001)


Investment (gross fixed):

21.2% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $35.05 billion
expenditures: $44.83 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 July - 30 June


Public debt:

105.8% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

9.5% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

9% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

12.51% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$27.6 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$102.6 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$113.9 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

cotton, rice, corn, wheat, beans, fruits, vegetables; cattle, water
buffalo, sheep, goats


Industries:

textiles, food processing, tourism, chemicals, pharmaceuticals,
hydrocarbons, construction, cement, metals, light manufactures


Industrial production growth rate:

7.5% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

109.1 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

96.2 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

557 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - imports:

208 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 81%
hydro: 19%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

664,000 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

652,700 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

204,700 bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - imports:

140,000 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

3.7 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

47.5 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

31.8 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

15.7 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

1.656 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$500.9 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$24.45 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

crude oil and petroleum products, cotton, textiles, metal products,
chemicals


Exports - partners:

US 9.7%, Italy 9.5%, Spain 7.6%, Syria 5.5%, Saudi Arabia 4.9%, UK
4.2% (2007)


Imports:

$44.95 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, foodstuffs, chemicals, wood products, fuels


Imports - partners:

US 11.7%, China 9.7%, Italy 6.4%, Germany 6.3%, Saudi Arabia 4.7%,
Russia 4.3% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

ODA, $925.9 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$31.37 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$29.2 billion (30 June 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$48.46 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$1.295 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$93.48 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

Egyptian pound (EGP)


Currency code:

EGP


Exchange rates:

Egyptian pounds (EGP) per US dollar - 5.67 (2007), 5.725 (2006),
5.78 (2005), 6.1962 (2004), 5.8509 (2003)


Communications
Egypt



Telephones - main lines in use:

11.229 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

30.065 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: large system; underwent extensive upgrading
during 1990s and is reasonably modern; Telecom Egypt, the landline
monopoly, has been increasing service availability and in 2007
fixed-line density stood at 14 per 100 persons; as of 2007 there
were three mobile-cellular networks and service is expanding rapidly
domestic: principal centers at Alexandria, Cairo, Al Mansurah,
Ismailia, Suez, and Tanta are connected by coaxial cable and
microwave radio relay
international: country code - 20; landing point for both the
SEA-ME-WE-3 and SEA-ME-WE-4 submarine cable networks; linked to the
international submarine cable FLAG (Fiber-Optic Link Around the
Globe); satellite earth stations - 4 (2 Intelsat - Atlantic Ocean
and Indian Ocean, 1 Arabsat, and 1 Inmarsat); tropospheric scatter
to Sudan; microwave radio relay to Israel; a participant in
Medarabtel (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 42 (plus 15 repeaters), FM 14, shortwave 3 (1999)


Radios:

20.5 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

98 (September 1995)


Televisions:

7.7 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.eg


Internet hosts:

175,342 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

50 (2000)


Internet users:

8.62 million (2007)


Transportation
Egypt



Airports:

88 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 72
over 3,047 m: 15
2,438 to 3,047 m: 36
1,524 to 2,437 m: 16
under 914 m: 5 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 16
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
914 to 1,523 m: 5
under 914 m: 7 (2007)


Heliports:

3 (2007)


Pipelines:

condensate 483 km; condensate/gas 74 km; gas 6,466 km; liquid
petroleum gas 957 km; oil 5,518 km; oil/gas/water 37 km; refined
products 895 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 5,063 km
standard gauge: 5,063 km 1.435-m gauge (62 km electrified) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 92,370 km
paved: 74,820 km
unpaved: 17,550 km (2004)


Waterways:

3,500 km
note: includes Nile River, Lake Nasser, Alexandria-Cairo Waterway,
and numerous smaller canals in delta; Suez Canal (193.5 km including
approaches) navigable by oceangoing vessels drawing up to 17.68 m
(2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 67
by type: bulk carrier 11, cargo 28, container 2, passenger/cargo 4,
petroleum tanker 13, roll on/roll off 9
foreign-owned: 10 (Denmark 1, Greece 8, Lebanon 1)
registered in other countries: 58 (Cambodia 13, Georgia 12, Honduras
3, North Korea 1, Malta 1, Moldova 1, Panama 17, Saint Kitts and
Nevis 2, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 3, Saudi Arabia 1, Sierra
Leone 3, Togo 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Ayn Sukhnah, Alexandria, Damietta, El Dekheila, Sidi Kurayr, Suez


Military
Egypt



Military branches:

Army, Navy, Air Force, Air Defense Command


Military service age and obligation:

18-30 years of age for male conscript military service; service
obligation 12-36 months, followed by a 9-year reserve obligation
(2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 21,247,777
females age 16-49: 20,406,408 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 18,153,158
females age 16-49: 17,405,837 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 825,300
female: 786,590 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

3.4% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Egypt



Disputes - international:

while Sudan retains claim to the Hala'ib Triangle north of the 1899
Treaty boundary along the 22nd Parallel, both states withdrew their
military presence in the 1990s and Egypt has invested in and
effectively administers the area; Egypt no longer shows its
administration of the Bir Tawil trapezoid in Sudan on its maps;
Gazan breaches in the security wall with Egypt in January 2008
highlight difficulties in monitoring the Sinai border


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 60,000 - 80,000 (Iraq); 70,198
(Palestinian Territories); 12,157 (Sudan) (2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Egypt is a transit country for women trafficked
from Eastern European countries to Israel for sexual exploitation,
and is a source for children trafficked within the country for
commercial sexual exploitation and domestic servitude, although the
extent to which children are trafficked internally is unknown;
children were also recruited for domestic and agricultural work;
some of these children face conditions of involuntary servitude,
such as restrictions on movement, non-payment of wages, threats, and
physical or sexual abuse
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Egypt is on the Tier 2 Watch List
for the third year in a row because it did not provide evidence of
increasing efforts to investigate and prosecute traffickers;
however, in July 2007, the government established the "National
Coordinating Committee to Combat and Prevent Trafficking in
Persons," which improved inter-governmental coordination on
anti-trafficking initiatives; Egypt made no discernible efforts to
punish trafficking crimes in 2007 and the Egyptian penal code does
not prohibit all forms of trafficking; Egypt did not increase its
services to trafficking victims during the reporting period (2008)


Illicit drugs:

transit point for cannabis, heroin, and opium moving to Europe,
Israel, and North Africa; transit stop for Nigerian drug couriers;
concern as money laundering site due to lax enforcement of financial
regulations



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@El Salvador

Introduction
El Salvador



Background:

El Salvador achieved independence from Spain in 1821 and from the
Central American Federation in 1839. A 12-year civil war, which cost
about 75,000 lives, was brought to a close in 1992 when the
government and leftist rebels signed a treaty that provided for
military and political reforms.


Geography
El Salvador



Location:

Central America, bordering the North Pacific Ocean, between
Guatemala and Honduras


Geographic coordinates:

13 50 N, 88 55 W


Map references:

Central America and the Caribbean


Area:

total: 21,040 sq km
land: 20,720 sq km
water: 320 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Massachusetts


Land boundaries:

total: 545 km
border countries: Guatemala 203 km, Honduras 342 km


Coastline:

307 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; rainy season (May to October); dry season (November to
April); tropical on coast; temperate in uplands


Terrain:

mostly mountains with narrow coastal belt and central plateau


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: Cerro El Pital 2,730 m


Natural resources:

hydropower, geothermal power, petroleum, arable land


Land use:

arable land: 31.37%
permanent crops: 11.88%
other: 56.75% (2005)


Irrigated land:

450 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

25.2 cu km (2001)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 1.28 cu km/yr (25%/16%/59%)
per capita: 186 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

known as the Land of Volcanoes; frequent and sometimes destructive
earthquakes and volcanic activity; extremely susceptible to
hurricanes


Environment - current issues:

deforestation; soil erosion; water pollution; contamination of soils
from disposal of toxic wastes


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea


Geography - note:

smallest Central American country and only one without a coastline
on Caribbean Sea


People
El Salvador



Population:

7,066,403 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 35.8% (male 1,291,147/female 1,237,453)
15-64 years: 59% (male 1,987,671/female 2,179,620)
65 years and over: 5.2% (male 162,100/female 208,412) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 22.2 years
male: 21.1 years
female: 23.4 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.679% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

25.72 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

5.53 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-3.4 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.91 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.78 male(s)/female
total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 22.19 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 25.06 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 19.18 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 72.06 years
male: 68.45 years
female: 75.84 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

3.04 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.7% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

29,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

2,200 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: dengue fever
water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Salvadoran(s)
adjective: Salvadoran


Ethnic groups:

mestizo 90%, white 9%, Amerindian 1%


Religions:

Roman Catholic 57.1%, Protestant 21.2%, Jehovah's Witnesses 1.9%,
Mormon 0.7%, other religions 2.3%, none 16.8% (2003 est.)


Languages:

Spanish, Nahua (among some Amerindians)


Literacy:

definition: age 10 and over can read and write
total population: 80.2%
male: 82.8%
female: 77.7% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 12 years
male: 12 years
female: 12 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

3.1% of GDP (2006)


Government
El Salvador



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of El Salvador
conventional short form: El Salvador
local long form: Republica de El Salvador
local short form: El Salvador


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: San Salvador
geographic coordinates: 13 42 N, 89 12 W
time difference: UTC-6 (1 hour behind Washington, DC during Standard
Time)


Administrative divisions:

14 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento); Ahuachapan,
Cabanas, Chalatenango, Cuscatlan, La Libertad, La Paz, La Union,
Morazan, San Miguel, San Salvador, San Vicente, Santa Ana,
Sonsonate, Usulutan


Independence:

15 September 1821 (from Spain)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 15 September (1821)


Constitution:

20 December 1983


Legal system:

based on civil and Roman law with traces of common law; judicial
review of legislative acts in the Supreme Court; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Elias Antonio SACA Gonzalez (since 1 June
2004); Vice President Ana Vilma Albanez DE ESCOBAR (since 1 June
2004); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government
head of government: President Elias Antonio SACA Gonzalez (since 1
June 2004); Vice President Ana Vilma Albanez DE ESCOBAR (since 1
June 2004)
cabinet: Council of Ministers selected by the president
elections: president and vice president elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for a single five-year term; election last held 21
March 2004 (next to be held in March 2009)
election results: Elias Antonio SACA Gonzalez elected president;
percent of vote - Elias Antonio SACA Gonzalez 57.7%, Schafik HANDAL
35.6%, Hector SILVA 3.9%, other 2.8%


Legislative branch:

unicameral Legislative Assembly or Asamblea Legislativa (84 seats;
members are elected by direct, popular vote to serve three-year
terms)
elections: last held 12 March 2006 (next to be held in March 2009)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
ARENA 34, FMLN 32, PCN 10, PDC 6, CD 2


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (15 judges are selected by the
Legislative Assembly; the 15 judges are assigned to four Supreme
Court chambers - constitutional, civil, penal, and administrative
conflict)


Political parties and leaders:

Christian Democratic Party or PDC [Rodolfo PARKER]; Democratic
Convergence or CD [Ruben ZAMORA] (formerly United Democratic Center
or CDU); Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front or FMLN [Medardo
GONZALEZ]; National Conciliation Party or PCN [Ciro CRUZ ZEPEDA];
National Republican Alliance or ARENA [Elias Antonio SACA Gonzalez];
Popular Social Christian Party or PPSC [Rene AGUILUZ]; Revolutionary
Democratic Front or FDR [Julio Cesar HERNANDEZ Carcamo]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

labor organizations - Electrical Industry Union of El Salvador or
SIES; Federation of the Construction Industry, Similar Transport and
other activities, or FESINCONTRANS; National Confederation of
Salvadoran Workers or CNTS; National Union of Salvadoran Workers or
UNTS; Port Industry Union of El Salvador or SIPES; Salvadoran Union
of Ex-Petrolleros and Peasant Workers or USEPOC; Salvadoran Workers
Central or CTS; Workers Union of Electrical Corporation or STCEL;
business organizations - National Association of Small Enterprise or
ANEP; Salvadoran Assembly Industry Association or ASIC; Salvadoran
Industrial Association or ASI


International organization participation:

BCIE, CACM, FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA, IFAD,
IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO
(correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURSO, NAM (observer),
OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIFIL, Union
Latina, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Rene Antonio LEON Rodriguez
chancery: 1400 16th Street, Washington, DC 20036
telephone: [1] (202) 265-9671
FAX: [1] (202) 234-3763
consulate(s) general: Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Elizabeth (New
Jersey), Houston, Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Miami, New York (2),
Nogales (Arizona), Santa Ana (California), San Francisco, Washington
(DC), Woodbridge (Virginia), Woodstock (Georgia)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Charles L. GLAZER
embassy: Final Boulevard Santa Elena Sur, Antiguo Cuscatlan, La
Libertad, San Salvador
mailing address: Unit 3116, APO AA 34023; 3450 San Salvador Place,
Washington, DC 20521-3450
telephone: [503] 2501-2999
FAX: [503] 2501-2150


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), white, and blue with the
national coat of arms centered in the white band; the coat of arms
features a round emblem encircled by the words REPUBLICA DE EL
SALVADOR EN LA AMERICA CENTRAL; similar to the flag of Nicaragua,
which has a different coat of arms centered in the white band - it
features a triangle encircled by the words REPUBLICA DE NICARAGUA on
top and AMERICA CENTRAL on the bottom; also similar to the flag of
Honduras, which has five blue stars arranged in an X pattern
centered in the white band


Economy
El Salvador



Economy - overview:

The smallest country in Central America, El Salvador has the third
largest economy, but growth has been modest in recent years. Robust
growth in non-traditional exports have offset declines in the
maquila exports, while remittances and external aid offset the trade
deficit from high oil prices and strong import demand for consumer
and intermediate goods. El Salvador leads the region in remittances
per capita with inflows equivalent to nearly all export income.
Implementation in 2006 of the Central America-Dominican Republic
Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA), which El Salvador was the first to
ratify, has strengthened an already positive export trend. With the
adoption of the US dollar as its currency in 2001, El Salvador lost
control over monetary policy and must concentrate on maintaining a
disciplined fiscal policy. The current government has pursued
economic diversification, with some success in promoting textile
production, international port services, and tourism through tax
incentives. It is committed to opening the economy to trade and
investment, and has embarked on a wave of privatizations extending
to telecom, electricity distribution, banking, and pension funds. In
late 2006, the government and the Millennium Challenge Corporation
signed a five-year, $461 million compact to stimulate economic
growth and reduce poverty in the country's northern region through
investments in education, public services, enterprise development,
and transportation infrastructure.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$41.63 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$20.37 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

4.7% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$6,000 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 10.8%
industry: 30.8%
services: 58.4% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

2.913 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 19%
industry: 23%
services: 58% (2006 est.)


Unemployment rate:

6.2% official rate; but the economy has much underemployment (2007
est.)


Population below poverty line:

30.7% (2006 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 0.7%
highest 10%: 38.8% (2002)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

52.4 (2002)


Investment (gross fixed):

16.1% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $3.659 billion
expenditures: $3.709 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

37.3% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

4.6% (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

NA


Stock of money:

$1.802 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$764.1 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$9.729 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

coffee, sugar, corn, rice, beans, oilseed, cotton, sorghum; beef,
dairy products; shrimp


Industries:

food processing, beverages, petroleum, chemicals, fertilizer,
textiles, furniture, light metals


Industrial production growth rate:

3.4% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

5.338 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

4.426 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - exports:

8.64 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

11.08 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 44%
hydro: 30.9%
nuclear: 0%
other: 25.1% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - consumption:

44,330 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

4,963 bbl/day (2006)


Oil - imports:

45,210 bbl/day (2006)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$1.119 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$4.035 billion (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

offshore assembly exports, coffee, sugar, shrimp, textiles,
chemicals, electricity


Exports - partners:

US 51%, Guatemala 13.6%, Honduras 11.2%, Nicaragua 5.5% (2007)


Imports:

$8.108 billion (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

raw materials, consumer goods, capital goods, fuels, foodstuffs,
petroleum, electricity


Imports - partners:

US 35.7%, Mexico 9.8%, Guatemala 8.5%, China 4.7% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$267.6 million of which $55 million from US (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$2.199 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$9.574 billion (December 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$5.918 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$384 million (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$3.623 billion (2005)


Currency (code):

US dollar (USD)


Currency code:

USD


Exchange rates:

the US dollar became El Salvador's currency in 2001


Communications
El Salvador



Telephones - main lines in use:

1.08 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

6.137 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: multiple mobile-cellular service providers are
expanding services rapidly and in 2007 mobile-cellular density stood
at nearly 90 per 100 persons; growth in fixed-line services has
slowed in the face of mobile-cellular competition
domestic: nationwide microwave radio relay system
international: country code - 503; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean); connected to Central American Microwave
System (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 52, FM 144, shortwave 0 (2005)


Radios:

2.75 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

5 (1997)


Televisions:

600,000 (1990)


Internet country code:

.sv


Internet hosts:

11,434 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

4 (2000)


Internet users:

700,000 (2006)


Transportation
El Salvador



Airports:

65 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 4
over 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 2 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 61
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 12
under 914 m: 48 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Railways:

total: 562 km
narrow gauge: 562 km 0.914-m gauge
note: railways not in operation since 2005 because of disuse and
high costs that led to a lack of maintenance (2007)


Roadways:

total: 10,886 km
paved: 2,827 km (includes 327 km of expressways)
unpaved: 8,059 km (2000)


Waterways:

Rio Lempa partially navigable for small craft (2007)


Ports and terminals:

Acajutla, Puerto Cutuco


Military
El Salvador



Military branches:

Salvadoran Army (ES), Salvadoran Navy (FNES), Salvadoran Air Force
(Fuerza Aerea Salvadorena, FAS) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for selective compulsory military service; 16 years
of age for voluntary service; service obligation - 8 months, but 11
months for officers and NCOs (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,634,816
females age 16-49: 1,775,474 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,168,406
females age 16-49: 1,519,375 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 73,915
female: 71,252 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

5% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
El Salvador



Disputes - international:

International Court of Justice (ICJ) ruled on the delimitation of
"bolsones" (disputed areas) along the El Salvador-Honduras boundary,
in 1992, with final agreement by the parties in 2006 after an
Organization of American States (OAS) survey and a further ICJ
ruling in 2003; the 1992 ICJ ruling advised a tripartite resolution
to a maritime boundary in the Gulf of Fonseca advocating Honduran
access to the Pacific; El Salvador continues to claim tiny Conejo
Island, not identified in the ICJ decision, off Honduras in the Gulf
of Fonseca


Illicit drugs:

transshipment point for cocaine; small amounts of marijuana produced
for local consumption; significant use of cocaine



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Equatorial Guinea

Introduction
Equatorial Guinea



Background:

Equatorial Guinea gained independence in 1968 after 190 years of
Spanish rule. This tiny country, composed of a mainland portion plus
five inhabited islands, is one of the smallest on the African
continent. President Teodoro OBIANG NGUEMA MBASOGO has ruled the
country since 1979 when he seized power in a coup. Although
nominally a constitutional democracy since 1991, the 1996 and 2002
presidential elections - as well as the 1999 and 2004 legislative
elections - were widely seen as flawed. The president exerts almost
total control over the political system and has discouraged
political opposition. Equatorial Guinea has experienced rapid
economic growth due to the discovery of large offshore oil reserves,
and in the last decade has become Sub-Saharan Africa's third largest
oil exporter. Despite the country's economic windfall from oil
production resulting in a massive increase in government revenue in
recent years, there have been few improvements in the population's
living standards.


Geography
Equatorial Guinea



Location:

Western Africa, bordering the Bight of Biafra, between Cameroon and
Gabon


Geographic coordinates:

2 00 N, 10 00 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 28,051 sq km
land: 28,051 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Maryland


Land boundaries:

total: 539 km
border countries: Cameroon 189 km, Gabon 350 km


Coastline:

296 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; always hot, humid


Terrain:

coastal plains rise to interior hills; islands are volcanic


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Pico Basile 3,008 m


Natural resources:

petroleum, natural gas, timber, gold, bauxite, diamonds, tantalum,
sand and gravel, clay


Land use:

arable land: 4.63%
permanent crops: 3.57%
other: 91.8% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Total renewable water resources:

26 cu km (2001)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.11 cu km/yr (83%/16%/1%)
per capita: 220 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

violent windstorms, flash floods


Environment - current issues:

tap water is not potable; deforestation


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

insular and continental regions widely separated


People
Equatorial Guinea



Population:

616,459 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 42% (male 131,696/female 127,253)
15-64 years: 53.8% (male 162,458/female 169,445)
65 years and over: 4.2% (male 11,394/female 14,213) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 18.9 years
male: 18.3 years
female: 19.5 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.732% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

37.04 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

9.72 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.96 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.8 male(s)/female
total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 83.75 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 84.85 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 82.61 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 61.23 years
male: 60.36 years
female: 62.13 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

5.16 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

3.4% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

5,900 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

370 (2001 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne disease: malaria (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Equatorial Guinean(s) or Equatoguinean(s)
adjective: Equatorial Guinean or Equatoguinean


Ethnic groups:

Fang 85.7%, Bubi 6.5%, Mdowe 3.6%, Annobon 1.6%, Bujeba 1.1%, other
1.4% (1994 census)


Religions:

nominally Christian and predominantly Roman Catholic, pagan practices


Languages:

Spanish 67.6% (official), other 32.4% (includes French (official),
Fang, Bubi) (1994 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 87%
male: 93.4%
female: 80.5% (2000 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 10 years
male: 10 years
female: 9 years (2000)


Education expenditures:

0.6% of GDP (2003)


Government
Equatorial Guinea



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Equatorial Guinea
conventional short form: Equatorial Guinea
local long form: Republica de Guinea Ecuatorial/Republique de Guinee
equatoriale
local short form: Guinea Ecuatorial/Guinee equatoriale
former: Spanish Guinea


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Malabo
geographic coordinates: 3 45 N, 8 47 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

7 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia); Annobon, Bioko
Norte, Bioko Sur, Centro Sur, Kie-Ntem, Litoral, Wele-Nzas


Independence:

12 October 1968 (from Spain)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 12 October (1968)


Constitution:

approved by national referendum 17 November 1991; amended January
1995


Legal system:

partly based on Spanish civil law and tribal custom; has not
accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Brig. Gen. (Ret.) Teodoro OBIANG NGUEMA
MBASOGO (since 3 August 1979 when he seized power in a military coup)
head of government: Prime Minister Ignacio Milan TANG (since 8 July
2008);
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
elections: president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term
(no term limits); election last held 15 December 2002 (next to be
held in December 2009); prime minister and deputy prime ministers
appointed by the president
election results: Teodoro OBIANG NGUEMA MBASOGO reelected president;
percent of vote - Teodoro OBIANG NGUEMA MBASOGO 97.1%, Celestino
Bonifacio BACALE 2.2%; elections marred by widespread fraud


Legislative branch:

unicameral House of People's Representatives or Camara de
Representantes del Pueblo (100 seats; members directly elected by
popular vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held 25 April 2004 (next to be held 4 May 2008)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
PDGE 98, CPDS 2
note: Parliament has little power since the constitution vests all
executive authority in the president


Judicial branch:

Supreme Tribunal


Political parties and leaders:

Convergence Party for Social Democracy or CPDS [Placido MICO Abogo];
Democratic Party for Equatorial Guinea or PDGE (ruling party)
[Teodoro OBIANG NGUEMA MBASOGO]; Party for Progress of Equatorial
Guinea or PPGE [Severo MOTO]; Popular Action of Equatorial Guinea or
APGE [Avelino MOCACHE]; Popular Union or UP


Political pressure groups and leaders:

ASODEGUE (Madrid-based pressure group for democratic reform); Global
Witness (anti-corruption)


International organization participation:

ACP, AfDB, AU, BDEAC, CEMAC, CPLP (associate), FAO, FZ, G-77, IBRD,
ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC,
ITSO, ITU, MIGA, NAM, OAS (observer), OIF, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WTO (observer)


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Purificacion ANGUE ONDO
chancery: 2020 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20009
telephone: [1] (202) 518-5700
FAX: [1] (202) 518-5252


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant)
embassy: K-3, Carreterade Aeropuerto, al lado de Restaurante El
Paraiso, Malabo; note - relocated embassy is opened for limited
functions; inquiries should continue to be directed to the US
Embassy in Yaounde, Cameroon
mailing address: B.P. 817, Yaounde, Cameroon; US Embassy Yaounde, US
Department of State, Washington, DC 20521-2520
telephone: [237] 2220-1500
FAX: [237] 2220-1572


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of green (top), white, and red with a
blue isosceles triangle based on the hoist side and the coat of arms
centered in the white band; the coat of arms has six yellow
six-pointed stars (representing the mainland and five offshore
islands) above a gray shield bearing a silk-cotton tree and below
which is a scroll with the motto UNIDAD, PAZ, JUSTICIA (Unity,
Peace, Justice)


Economy
Equatorial Guinea



Economy - overview:

The discovery and exploitation of large oil reserves have
contributed to dramatic economic growth in recent years. Forestry,
farming, and fishing are also major components of GDP. Subsistence
farming predominates. Although pre-independence Equatorial Guinea
counted on cocoa production for hard currency earnings, the neglect
of the rural economy under successive regimes has diminished
potential for agriculture-led growth (the government has stated its
intention to reinvest some oil revenue into agriculture). A number
of aid programs sponsored by the World Bank and the IMF have been
cut off since 1993, because of corruption and mismanagement. No
longer eligible for concessional financing because of large oil
revenues, the government has been trying to agree on a "shadow"
fiscal management program with the World Bank and IMF. Government
officials and their family members own most businesses. Undeveloped
natural resources include titanium, iron ore, manganese, uranium,
and alluvial gold. Growth remained strong in 2007, led by oil.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$15.54 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$10.49 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

12.4% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$28,200 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 2.9%
industry: 92.2%
services: 4.8% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

NA


Unemployment rate:

30% (1998 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Investment (gross fixed):

37.9% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $4.963 billion
expenditures: $2.494 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

1.6% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

6% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

5.25% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

15% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$835.2 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$174.5 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

NA


Agriculture - products:

coffee, cocoa, rice, yams, cassava (tapioca), bananas, palm oil
nuts; livestock; timber


Industries:

petroleum, fishing, sawmilling, natural gas


Industrial production growth rate:

10.1% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

27 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

25.11 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 94.3%
hydro: 5.7%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

368,500 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

918.3 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

375,400 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

1,070 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

1.1 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

1.3 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

1.3 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

36.81 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$415 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$9.904 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

petroleum, methanol, timber, cocoa


Exports - partners:

US 20.6%, China 18.8%, Spain 13.9%, Taiwan 13.4%, France 7.5%, Japan
6.5%, Portugal 6.4% (2007)


Imports:

$3.083 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

petroleum sector equipment, other equipment


Imports - partners:

US 19.6%, Spain 13.7%, Cote d'Ivoire 11.9%, France 9.6%, China 7.7%,
Italy 6.6%, UK 6.4%, Netherlands 4.1% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$39 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$3.846 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$338 million (31 December 2007 est.)


Currency (code):

Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XAF); note - responsible
authority is the Bank of the Central African States


Currency code:

XAF


Exchange rates:

Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XAF) per US dollar - 481.83
(2007), 522.4 (2006), 527.47 (2005), 528.29 (2004), 581.2 (2003)


Communications
Equatorial Guinea



Telephones - main lines in use:

10,000 (2005)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

220,000 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: digital fixed-line network in most major urban
areas and good mobile coverage
domestic: fixed-line density is about 2 per 100 persons;
mobile-cellular subscribership has been increasing and in 2007 stood
at about 40 percent of the population
international: country code - 240; international communications from
Bata and Malabo to African and European countries; satellite earth
station - 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 0, FM 3, shortwave 5 (2001)


Radios:

180,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (2001)


Televisions:

4,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.gq


Internet hosts:

9 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2002)


Internet users:

8,000 (2006)


Transportation
Equatorial Guinea



Airports:

5 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 5
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 2 (2007)


Pipelines:

condensate 42 km; condensate/gas 5 km; gas 80 km; oil 54 km (2007)


Roadways:

total: 2,880 km (2000)


Merchant marine:

total: 1
by type: cargo 1 (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Bata, Malabo


Military
Equatorial Guinea



Military branches:

National Guard (Guardia Nacional (Army), with Coast Guard (Navy) and
Air Wing) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age (est.) for compulsory military service (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 136,725
females age 16-49: 138,018 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 101,712
females age 16-49: 104,381 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 6,784
female: 6,543 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0.1% of GDP (2006 est.)


Transnational Issues
Equatorial Guinea



Disputes - international:

in 2002, ICJ ruled on an equidistance settlement of
Cameroon-Equatorial Guinea-Nigeria maritime boundary in the Gulf of
Guinea, but a dispute between Equatorial Guinea and Cameroon over an
island at the mouth of the Ntem River and imprecisely defined
maritime coordinates in the ICJ decision delay final delimitation;
UN urges Equatorial Guinea and Gabon to resolve the sovereignty
dispute over Gabon-occupied Mbane and lesser islands and to create a
maritime boundary in the hydrocarbon-rich Corisco Bay


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Equatorial Guinea is primarily a destination
country for children trafficked for the purpose of forced labor and
possibly for the purpose of sexual exploitation; children have been
trafficked from nearby countries for domestic servitude, market
labor, ambulant vending, and possibly sexual exploitation; women may
also be trafficked to Equatorial Guinea from Cameroon, Benin, other
neighboring countries, and China for sexual exploitation
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Equatorial Guinea is on the Tier 2
Watch List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts
to eliminate trafficking, particularly in the areas of prosecuting
and convicting trafficking offenders and failing to formalize
mechanisms to provide assistance to victims; although the government
made some effort to enforce laws against child labor exploitation,
it failed to report any trafficking prosecutions or convictions in
2007; the government continued to lack shelters or formal procedures
for providing care to victims (2008)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Eritrea

Introduction
Eritrea



Background:

Eritrea was awarded to Ethiopia in 1952 as part of a federation.
Ethiopia's annexation of Eritrea as a province 10 years later
sparked a 30-year struggle for independence that ended in 1991 with
Eritrean rebels defeating governmental forces; independence was
overwhelmingly approved in a 1993 referendum. A two-and-a-half-year
border war with Ethiopia that erupted in 1998 ended under UN
auspices in December 2000. Eritrea currently hosts a UN peacekeeping
operation that is monitoring a 25 km-wide Temporary Security Zone
(TSZ) on the border with Ethiopia. An international commission,
organized to resolve the border dispute, posted its findings in
2002. However, both parties have been unable to reach agreement on
implementing the decision. On 30 November 2007, the Eritrea-Ethiopia
Boundary Commission remotely demarcated the border by coordinates
and dissolved itself, leaving Ethiopia still occupying several
tracts of disputed territory, including the town of Badme. Eritrea
accepted the EEBC's "virtual demarcation" decision and called on
Ethiopia to remove its troops from the TSZ which it states is
Eritrean territory. Ethiopia has not accepted the virtual
demarcation decision.


Geography
Eritrea



Location:

Eastern Africa, bordering the Red Sea, between Djibouti and Sudan


Geographic coordinates:

15 00 N, 39 00 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 121,320 sq km
land: 121,320 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than Pennsylvania


Land boundaries:

total: 1,626 km
border countries: Djibouti 109 km, Ethiopia 912 km, Sudan 605 km


Coastline:

2,234 km (mainland on Red Sea 1,151 km, islands in Red Sea 1,083 km)


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm


Climate:

hot, dry desert strip along Red Sea coast; cooler and wetter in the
central highlands (up to 61 cm of rainfall annually, heaviest June
to September); semiarid in western hills and lowlands


Terrain:

dominated by extension of Ethiopian north-south trending highlands,
descending on the east to a coastal desert plain, on the northwest
to hilly terrain and on the southwest to flat-to-rolling plains


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: near Kulul within the Denakil depression -75 m
highest point: Soira 3,018 m


Natural resources:

gold, potash, zinc, copper, salt, possibly oil and natural gas, fish


Land use:

arable land: 4.78%
permanent crops: 0.03%
other: 95.19% (2005)


Irrigated land:

210 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

6.3 cu km (2001)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.3 cu km/yr (3%/0%/97%)
per capita: 68 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

frequent droughts; locust swarms


Environment - current issues:

deforestation; desertification; soil erosion; overgrazing; loss of
infrastructure from civil warfare


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
Ozone Layer Protection
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

strategic geopolitical position along world's busiest shipping
lanes; Eritrea retained the entire coastline of Ethiopia along the
Red Sea upon de jure independence from Ethiopia on 24 May 1993


People
Eritrea



Population:

5,502,026 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 43% (male 1,188,496/female 1,178,520)
15-64 years: 53.4% (male 1,437,653/female 1,502,449)
65 years and over: 3.5% (male 89,634/female 105,274) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 18.3 years
male: 17.9 years
female: 18.7 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.631% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

34.94 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

8.63 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.96 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.85 male(s)/female
total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 44.34 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 50.09 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 38.42 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 61.38 years
male: 59.35 years
female: 63.46 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

4.84 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

2.7% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

60,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

6,300 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever
vectorborne disease: malaria (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Eritrean(s)
adjective: Eritrean


Ethnic groups:

Tigrinya 50%, Tigre and Kunama 40%, Afar 4%, Saho (Red Sea coast
dwellers) 3%, other 3%


Religions:

Muslim, Coptic Christian, Roman Catholic, Protestant


Languages:

Afar, Arabic, Tigre and Kunama, Tigrinya, other Cushitic languages


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 58.6%
male: 69.9%
female: 47.6% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 5 years
male: 6 years
female: 4 years (2004)


Education expenditures:

2.4% of GDP (2006)


Government
Eritrea



Country name:

conventional long form: State of Eritrea
conventional short form: Eritrea
local long form: Hagere Ertra
local short form: Ertra
former: Eritrea Autonomous Region in Ethiopia


Government type:

transitional government
note: following a successful referendum on independence for the
Autonomous Region of Eritrea on 23-25 April 1993, a National
Assembly, composed entirely of the People's Front for Democracy and
Justice or PFDJ, was established as a transitional legislature; a
Constitutional Commission was also established to draft a
constitution; ISAIAS Afworki was elected president by the
transitional legislature; the constitution, ratified in May 1997,
did not enter into effect, pending parliamentary and presidential
elections; parliamentary elections were scheduled in December 2001,
but were postponed indefinitely; currently the sole legal party is
the People's Front for Democracy and Justice (PFDJ)


Capital:

name: Asmara (Asmera)
geographic coordinates: 15 20 N, 38 56 E
time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

6 regions (zobatat, singular - zoba); Anseba, Debub (Southern),
Debubawi K'eyih Bahri (Southern Red Sea), Gash Barka, Ma'akel
(Central), Semenawi Keyih Bahri (Northern Red Sea)


Independence:

24 May 1993 (from Ethiopia)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 24 May (1993)


Constitution:

a transitional constitution, decreed on 19 May 1993, was replaced by
a new constitution adopted on 23 May 1997, but not yet implemented


Legal system:

primary basis is the Ethiopian legal code of 1957, with revisions;
new civil, commercial, and penal codes have not yet been
promulgated; government also issues unilateral proclamations setting
laws and policies; also relies on customary and
post-independence-enacted laws and, for civil cases involving
Muslims, Islamic law; does not accept compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President ISAIAS Afworki (since 8 June 1993); note -
the president is both the chief of state and head of government and
is head of the State Council and National Assembly
head of government: President ISAIAS Afworki (since 8 June 1993)
cabinet: State Council is the collective executive authority;
members appointed by the president
elections: president elected by the National Assembly for a
five-year term (eligible for a second term); the most recent and
only election held 8 June 1993 (next election date uncertain as the
National Assembly did not hold a presidential election in December
2001 as anticipated)
election results: ISAIAS Afworki elected president; percent of
National Assembly vote - ISAIAS Afworki 95%, other 5%


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly (150 seats; members elected by direct
popular vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: in May 1997, following the adoption of the new
constitution, 75 members of the PFDJ Central Committee (the old
Central Committee of the EPLF), 60 members of the 527-member
Constituent Assembly, which had been established in 1997 to discuss
and ratify the new constitution, and 15 representatives of Eritreans
living abroad were formed into a Transitional National Assembly to
serve as the country's legislative body until countrywide elections
to a National Assembly were held; although only 75 of 150 members of
the Transitional National Assembly were elected, the constitution
stipulates that once past the transition stage, all members of the
National Assembly will be elected by secret ballot of all eligible
voters; National Assembly elections scheduled for December 2001 were
postponed indefinitely


Judicial branch:

High Court - regional, subregional, and village courts; also have
military and special courts


Political parties and leaders:

People's Front for Democracy and Justice or PFDJ [ISAIAS Afworki]
(the only party recognized by the government); note - a National
Assembly committee drafted a law on political parties in January
2001, but the full National Assembly has yet to debate or vote on it


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Eritrean Democratic Party (EDP) [HAGOS, Mesfin]; Eritrean Islamic
Jihad or EIJ (includes Eritrean Islamic Jihad Movement or EIJM also
known as the Abu Sihel Movement); Eritrean Islamic Salvation or EIS
(also known as the Arafa Movement); Eritrean Liberation Front or ELF
[ABDULLAH Muhammed]; Eritrean National Alliance or ENA (a coalition
including EIJ, EIS, ELF, and a number of ELF factions) [HERUY Tedla
Biru]; Eritrean Public Forum or EPF [ARADOM Iyob]


International organization participation:

ACP, AfDB, AU, COMESA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt
(signatory), IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS (observer), ILO, IMF, IMO,
Interpol, IOC, ISO (correspondent), ITU, ITUC, LAS (observer), MIGA,
NAM, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU,
WHO, WIPO, WMO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador GHIRMAI Ghebremariam
chancery: 1708 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009
telephone: [1] (202) 319-1991
FAX: [1] (202) 319-1304
consulate(s) general: Oakland (California)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Ronald MCMULLEN
embassy: 179 Ala Street, Asmara
mailing address: P. O. Box 211, Asmara
telephone: [291] (1) 120004
FAX: [291] (1) 127584


Flag description:

red isosceles triangle (based on the hoist side) dividing the flag
into two right triangles; the upper triangle is green, the lower one
is blue; a gold wreath encircling a gold olive branch is centered on
the hoist side of the red triangle


Economy
Eritrea



Economy - overview:

Since independence from Ethiopia in 1993, Eritrea has faced the
economic problems of a small, desperately poor country, accentuated
by the recent implementation of restrictive economic policies.
Eritrea has a command economy under the control of the sole
political party, the People's Front for Democracy and Justice
(PFDJ). Like the economies of many African nations, the economy is
largely based on subsistence agriculture, with 80% of the population
involved in farming and herding. The Ethiopian-Eritrea war in
1998-2000 severely hurt Eritrea's economy. GDP growth fell to zero
in 1999 and to -12.1% in 2000. The May 2000 Ethiopian offensive into
northern Eritrea caused some $600 million in property damage and
loss, including losses of $225 million in livestock and 55,000
homes. The attack prevented planting of crops in Eritrea's most
productive region, causing food production to drop by 62%. Even
during the war, Eritrea developed its transportation infrastructure,
asphalting new roads, improving its ports, and repairing war-damaged
roads and bridges. Since the war ended, the government has
maintained a firm grip on the economy, expanding the use of the
military and party-owned businesses to complete Eritrea's
development agenda. The government strictly controls the use of
foreign currency, limiting access and availability. Few private
enterprises remain in Eritrea. Eritrea's economy is heavily
dependent on taxes paid by members of the diaspora. Erratic rainfall
and the delayed demobilization of agriculturalists from the military
continue to interfere with agricultural production, and Eritrea's
recent harvests have not been able to meet the food needs of the
country. The government continues to place its hope for additional
revenue on the development of several international mining projects.
Despite difficulties for international companies in working with the
Eritrean government, a Canadian mining company signed a contract
with the GSE in 2007 and plans to begin mineral extraction in 2010.
Eritrea also anticipates opening a free trade zone at the port of
Massawa in 2008. Eritrea's economic future depends upon its ability
to master social problems such as illiteracy, unemployment, and low
skills, and more importantly, on the government's willingness to
support a true market economy.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$3.619 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$1.316 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

1.3% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$800 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 17.5%
industry: 23.2%
services: 59.3% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

NA


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 80%
industry and services: 20% (2004 est.)


Unemployment rate:

NA%


Population below poverty line:

50% (2004 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Investment (gross fixed):

19.1% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $234.6 million
expenditures: $471.4 million (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

17% (2007 est.)


Stock of money:

$749.1 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$932.9 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$1.711 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

sorghum, lentils, vegetables, corn, cotton, tobacco, sisal;
livestock, goats; fish


Industries:

food processing, beverages, clothing and textiles, light
manufacturing, salt, cement


Industrial production growth rate:

2% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

253 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

216 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

5,186 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

54.74 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

4,924 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$205 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$12 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

livestock, sorghum, textiles, food, small manufactures


Exports - partners:

Italy 34.4%, China 16.2%, Sudan 15.2%, France 9.4%, Saudi Arabia
5.2%, Australia 4.4% (2007)


Imports:

$573 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery, petroleum products, food, manufactured goods


Imports - partners:

Saudi Arabia 19.1%, Italy 15.1%, China 11.1%, Turkey 8.3%, Germany
7.2%, Ukraine 5.1% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$355.2 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$23 million (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$311 million (2000 est.)


Currency (code):

nakfa (ERN)


Currency code:

ERN


Exchange rates:

nakfa (ERN) per US dollar - 15.5 (2007), 15.4 (2006), 14.5 (2005),
13.788 (2004), 13.878 (2003)
note: the official exchange rate is 15 nakfa to the dollar


Communications
Eritrea



Telephones - main lines in use:

37,500 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

70,000 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: inadequate; combined fixed-line and mobile
cellular subscribership is only about 2 per 100 persons
domestic: inadequate; most telephones are in Asmara; government is
seeking international tenders to improve the system (2002)
international: country code - 291; note - international connections
exist


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 2, FM NA, shortwave 2 (2000)


Radios:

345,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

2 (2006)


Televisions:

1,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.er


Internet hosts:

1,074 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

5 (2001)


Internet users:

120,000 (2007)


Transportation
Eritrea



Airports:

18 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 4
over 3,047 m: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 14
over 3,047 m: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 6
914 to 1,523 m: 4
under 914 m: 2 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Railways:

total: 306 km
narrow gauge: 306 km 0.950-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 4,010 km
paved: 874 km
unpaved: 3,136 km (2000)


Merchant marine:

total: 5
by type: cargo 2, liquefied gas 1, petroleum tanker 1, roll on/roll
off 1 (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Assab, Massawa


Military
Eritrea



Military branches:

Eritrean Armed Forces: Ground Forces, Navy, Air Force (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18-40 years of age for male and female voluntary and compulsory
military service; 16-month conscript service obligation (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,108,836
females age 16-49: 1,096,120 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 715,531
females age 16-49: 731,511 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 60,490
female: 60,639 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

6.3% of GDP (2006 est.)


Transnational Issues
Eritrea



Disputes - international:

Eritrea and Ethiopia agreed to abide by 2002 Ethiopia-Eritrea
Boundary Commission's (EEBC) delimitation decision but, neither
party responded to the revised line detailed in the November 2006
EEBC Demarcation Statement; UN Peacekeeping Mission to Ethiopia and
Eritrea (UNMEE), which has monitored the 25-km-wide Temporary
Security Zone in Eritrea since 2000, is extended for six months in
2007 despite Eritrean restrictions on its operations and reduced
force of 17,000; Sudan accuses Eritrea of supporting eastern
Sudanese rebel groups


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

IDPs: 32,000 (border war with Ethiopia from 1998-2000; most IDPs are
near the central border region) (2007)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Estonia

Introduction
Estonia



Background:

After centuries of Danish, Swedish, German, and Russian rule,
Estonia attained independence in 1918. Forcibly incorporated into
the USSR in 1940 - an action never recognized by the US - it
regained its freedom in 1991, with the collapse of the Soviet Union.
Since the last Russian troops left in 1994, Estonia has been free to
promote economic and political ties with Western Europe. It joined
both NATO and the EU in the spring of 2004.


Geography
Estonia



Location:

Eastern Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea and Gulf of Finland,
between Latvia and Russia


Geographic coordinates:

59 00 N, 26 00 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 45,226 sq km
land: 43,211 sq km
water: 2,015 sq km
note: includes 1,520 islands in the Baltic Sea


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than New Hampshire and Vermont combined


Land boundaries:

total: 633 km
border countries: Latvia 343 km, Russia 290 km


Coastline:

3,794 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: limits fixed in coordination with
neighboring states


Climate:

maritime, wet, moderate winters, cool summers


Terrain:

marshy, lowlands; flat in the north, hilly in the south


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Baltic Sea 0 m
highest point: Suur Munamagi 318 m


Natural resources:

oil shale, peat, phosphorite, clay, limestone, sand, dolomite,
arable land, sea mud


Land use:

arable land: 12.05%
permanent crops: 0.35%
other: 87.6% (2005)


Irrigated land:

40 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

21.1 cu km (2005)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 1.41 cu km/yr (56%/39%/5%)
per capita: 1,060 cu m/yr (2002)


Natural hazards:

sometimes flooding occurs in the spring


Environment - current issues:

air polluted with sulfur dioxide from oil-shale burning power plants
in northeast; however, the amount of pollutants emitted to the air
have fallen steadily, the emissions of 2000 were 80% less than in
1980; the amount of unpurified wastewater discharged to water bodies
in 2000 was one-20th the level of 1980; in connection with the
start-up of new water purification plants, the pollution load of
wastewater decreased; Estonia has more than 1,400 natural and
manmade lakes, the smaller of which in agricultural areas need to be
monitored; coastal seawater is polluted in certain locations


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic Treaty,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

the mainland terrain is flat, boggy, and partly wooded; offshore lie
more than 1,500 islands


People
Estonia



Population:

1,307,605 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 14.9% (male 100,143/female 94,450)
15-64 years: 67.5% (male 420,896/female 462,072)
65 years and over: 17.6% (male 76,171/female 153,873) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 39.6 years
male: 36.2 years
female: 43.2 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

-0.632% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

10.28 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

13.35 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-3.24 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.91 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.5 male(s)/female
total population: 0.84 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 7.45 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 8.62 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 6.21 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 72.56 years
male: 67.16 years
female: 78.3 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.42 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

1.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

7,800 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 200 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: intermediate
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A
vectorborne disease: tickborne encephalitis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Estonian(s)
adjective: Estonian


Ethnic groups:

Estonian 67.9%, Russian 25.6%, Ukrainian 2.1%, Belarusian 1.3%, Finn
0.9%, other 2.2% (2000 census)


Religions:

Evangelical Lutheran 13.6%, Orthodox 12.8%, other Christian
(including Methodist, Seventh-Day Adventist, Roman Catholic,
Pentecostal) 1.4%, unaffiliated 34.1%, other and unspecified 32%,
none 6.1% (2000 census)


Languages:

Estonian (official) 67.3%, Russian 29.7%, other 2.3%, unknown 0.7%
(2000 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99.8%
male: 99.8%
female: 99.8% (2000 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 16 years
male: 15 years
female: 17 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

5.1% of GDP (2004)


Government
Estonia



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Estonia
conventional short form: Estonia
local long form: Eesti Vabariik
local short form: Eesti
former: Estonian Soviet Socialist Republic


Government type:

parliamentary republic


Capital:

name: Tallinn
geographic coordinates: 59 26 N, 24 43 E
time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

15 counties (maakonnad, singular - maakond): Harjumaa (Tallinn),
Hiiumaa (Kardla), Ida-Virumaa (Johvi), Jarvamaa (Paide), Jogevamaa
(Jogeva), Laanemaa (Haapsalu), Laane-Virumaa (Rakvere), Parnumaa
(Parnu), Polvamaa (Polva), Raplamaa (Rapla), Saaremaa (Kuressaare),
Tartumaa (Tartu), Valgamaa (Valga), Viljandimaa (Viljandi), Vorumaa
(Voru)
note: counties have the administrative center name following in
parentheses


Independence:

20 August 1991 (from Soviet Union)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 24 February (1918); note - 24 February 1918 was
the date Estonia declared its independence from Soviet Russia; 20
August 1991 was the date it declared its independence from the
Soviet Union


Constitution:

adopted 28 June 1992


Legal system:

based on civil law system; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with
reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal for all Estonian citizens


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Toomas Hendrik ILVES (since 9 October 2006)
head of government: Prime Minister Andrus ANSIP (since 12 April 2005)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister,
approved by Parliament
elections: president elected by Parliament for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); if a candidate does not secure
two-thirds of the votes after three rounds of balloting in the
Parliament, then an electoral assembly (made up of Parliament plus
members of local governments) elects the president, choosing between
the two candidates with the largest percentage of votes; election
last held 23 September 2006 (next to be held in the fall of 2011);
prime minister nominated by the president and approved by Parliament
election results: Toomas Hendrik ILVES elected president on 23
September 2006 by a 345-member electoral assembly; ILVES received
174 votes to incumbent Arnold RUUTEL's 162; remaining 9 ballots left
blank or invalid


Legislative branch:

unicameral Parliament or Riigikogu (101 seats; members are elected
by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 4 March 2007 (next to be held in March 2011)
election results: percent of vote by party - Estonian Reform Party
27.8%, Center Party of Estonia 26.1%, Union of Pro Patria and Res
Publica 17.9%, Social Democratic Party 10.6%, Estonian Greens 7.1%,
Estonian People's Union 7.1%, other 5%; seats by party - Estonian
Reform Party 31, Center Party 29, Union of Pro Patria and Res
Publica 19, Social Democratic Party 10, Estonian Greens 6, Estonian
People's Union 6


Judicial branch:

National Court (chairman appointed by Parliament for life)


Political parties and leaders:

Center Party of Estonia (Keskerakond) [Edgar SAVISAAR]; Estonian
Greens (Rohelised) [Marek STRANDBERG]; Estonian People's Union
(Rahvaliit) [Villu REILJAN]; Estonian Reform Party (Reformierakond)
[Andrus ANSIP]; Estonian United Russian People's Party or EUVRP
[Yevgeniy TOMBERG]; Social Democratic Party (formerly People's Party
Moodukad or Moderates) [Ivari PADAR]; Union of Pro Patria and Res
Publica (Isamaa je Res Publica Liit) [Mart LAAR]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Nochnoy Dozor/Night Watch anti-fascist movement (leader Alexander
KOROBOV)


International organization participation:

Australia Group, BA, BIS, CBSS, CE, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EU, FAO, IAEA,
IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NATO,
NIB, NSG, OAS (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PCA, Schengen Convention, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNITAR, UNTSO, UPU, WCO, WEU (associate
partner), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Vaino REINART
chancery: 2131 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 588-0101
FAX: [1] (202) 588-0108
consulate(s) general: New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Stanley Davis PHILLIPS
embassy: Kentmanni 20, 15099 Tallinn
mailing address: use embassy street address
telephone: [372] 668-8100
FAX: [372] 668-8265


Flag description:

pre-1940 flag restored by Supreme Soviet in May 1990 - three equal
horizontal bands of blue (top), black, and white


Economy
Estonia



Economy - overview:

Estonia, a 2004 European Union entrant, has a modern market-based
economy and one of the highest per capita income levels in Central
Europe. The economy benefits from strong electronics and
telecommunications sectors and strong trade ties with Finland,
Sweden, and Germany. The current government has pursued relatively
sound fiscal policies, resulting in balanced budgets and low public
debt. In 2007, however, a large current account deficit and rising
inflation put pressure on Estonia's currency, which is pegged to the
euro, highlighting the need for growth in export-generating
industries.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$28.69 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$21.28 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

7.1% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$21,800 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 3%
industry: 28.5%
services: 68.5% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

687,000 (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 11%
industry: 20%
services: 69% (1999 est.)


Unemployment rate:

4.7% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

5% (2003)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.5%
highest 10%: 27.6% (2003)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

34 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

31.9% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $7.854 billion
expenditures: $7.171 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

3.4% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

6.6% (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

6.46% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$7.158 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$4.253 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$21.35 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

potatoes, vegetables; livestock and dairy products; fish


Industries:

engineering, electronics, wood and wood products, textiles;
information technology, telecommunications


Industrial production growth rate:

7.7% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

9.158 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

7.331 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

3.179 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

400 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 99.8%
hydro: 0.1%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0.2% (2001)


Oil - production:

7,430 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

30,440 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

7,000 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

28,170 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

1.48 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

1.48 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$3.771 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$11.08 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

machinery and equipment 33%, wood and paper 15%, textiles 14%, food
products 8%, furniture 7%, metals, chemical products (2001)


Exports - partners:

Finland 17.9%, Sweden 13.2%, Latvia 11.4%, Russia 8.9%, Lithuania
5.8%, Germany 5.2%, US 4.1% (2007)


Imports:

$14.75 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment 33.5%, chemical products 11.6%, textiles
10.3%, foodstuffs 9.4%, transportation equipment 8.9% (2001)


Imports - partners:

Finland 15.9%, Germany 12.8%, Sweden 10.1%, Russia 10%, Latvia 7.6%,
Lithuania 6.9%, Poland 4.5% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$135.5 million (2004)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$3.27 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$24.82 billion (30 June 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$16.59 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$5.873 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$5.963 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

Estonian kroon (EEK)


Currency code:

EEK


Exchange rates:

krooni (EEK) per US dollar - 11.535 (2007), 12.473 (2006), 12.584
(2005), 12.596 (2004), 13.856 (2003)
note: the krooni is pegged to the euro


Communications
Estonia



Telephones - main lines in use:

495,500 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

1.982 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: foreign investment in the form of joint business
ventures greatly improved telephone service; substantial fiber-optic
cable systems carry telephone, TV, and radio traffic in the digital
mode; Internet services are widely available; schools and libraries
are connected to the Internet, a large percentage of the population
files income-tax returns online, and online voting was used for the
first time in the 2005 local elections
domestic: a wide range of high quality voice, data, and Internet
services is available throughout the country
international: country code - 372; fiber-optic cables to Finland,
Sweden, Latvia, and Russia provide worldwide packet-switched
service; 2 international switches are located in Tallinn (2001)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 0, FM 98, shortwave 0 (2001)


Radios:

1.01 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

3 (2001)


Televisions:

605,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.ee


Internet hosts:

645,495 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

38 (2001)


Internet users:

780,000 (2007)


Transportation
Estonia



Airports:

19 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 12
over 3,047 m: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 7
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 3 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 7
over 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 3 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 859 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 968 km
broad gauge: 968 km 1.520 m/1.524-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 57,016 km
paved: 12,926 km (includes 99 km of expressways)
unpaved: 44,090 km (2005)


Waterways:

320 km (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 29
by type: cargo 5, passenger/cargo 21, petroleum tanker 2, chemical
tanker 1
foreign-owned: 4 (Denmark 1, Germany 1, Norway 2)
registered in other countries: 85 (Antigua and Barbuda 23, Belize 6,
Cyprus 5, Dominica 7, Finland 2, Latvia 2, Liberia 1, Malta 11,
Norway 1, Panama 5, Saint Kitts and Nevis 3, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines 16, Sweden 2, Vanuatu 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Kuivastu, Kunda, Muuga, Tallinn, Virtsu


Military
Estonia



Military branches:

Estonian Defense Forces: Land Force, Navy, Air Force (Eesti
Ohuvagi), Volunteer Defense League (Kaitseliit, KL) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

compulsory military service for men between 19 and 28; conscription
lasts 11 months for junior NCOs and reserve platoon leaders; reserve
officers and designated specialists have a different conscript
service obligation; Estonia has committed to retaining conscription
for men up to 2010 and, unlike Latvia and Lithuania, has no plan to
transition to a contract armed forces; 17 years of age for
volunteers; reserve commitment up to the age of 60 (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 306,273
females age 16-49: 317,852 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 218,448
females age 16-49: 264,187 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 8,322
female: 7,846 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

2% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Estonia



Disputes - international:

Russia recalled its signature to the 1996 technical border agreement
with Estonia in 2005, rather than concede to Estonia's appending
prepared a unilateral declaration referencing Soviet occupation and
territorial losses; Russia demands better accommodation of
Russian-speaking population in Estonia; Estonian citizen groups
continue to press for realignment of the boundary based on the 1920
Tartu Peace Treaty that would bring the now divided ethnic Setu
people and parts of the Narva region within Estonia; as a member
state that forms part of the EU's external border, Estonia must
implement the strict Schengen border rules with Russia


Illicit drugs:

growing producer of synthetic drugs; increasingly important
transshipment zone for cannabis, cocaine, opiates, and synthetic
drugs since joining the European Union and the Schengen Accord;
potential money laundering related to organized crime and drug
trafficking is a concern, as is possible use of the gambling sector
to launder funds; major use of opiates and ecstasy



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Ethiopia

Introduction
Ethiopia



Background:

Unique among African countries, the ancient Ethiopian monarchy
maintained its freedom from colonial rule with the exception of the
1936-41 Italian occupation during World War II. In 1974, a military
junta, the Derg, deposed Emperor Haile SELASSIE (who had ruled since
1930) and established a socialist state. Torn by bloody coups,
uprisings, wide-scale drought, and massive refugee problems, the
regime was finally toppled in 1991 by a coalition of rebel forces,
the Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF). A
constitution was adopted in 1994, and Ethiopia's first multiparty
elections were held in 1995. A border war with Eritrea late in the
1990s ended with a peace treaty in December 2000. The
Eritrea-Ethiopia Border Commission in November 2007 remotely
demarcated the border by geographical coordinates, but final
demarcation of the boundary on the ground is currently on hold
because of Ethiopian objections to an international commission's
finding requiring it to surrender territory considered sensitive to
Ethiopia.


Geography
Ethiopia



Location:

Eastern Africa, west of Somalia


Geographic coordinates:

8 00 N, 38 00 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 1,127,127 sq km
land: 1,119,683 sq km
water: 7,444 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly less than twice the size of Texas


Land boundaries:

total: 5,328 km
border countries: Djibouti 349 km, Eritrea 912 km, Kenya 861 km,
Somalia 1,600 km, Sudan 1,606 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

tropical monsoon with wide topographic-induced variation


Terrain:

high plateau with central mountain range divided by Great Rift Valley


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Denakil Depression -125 m
highest point: Ras Dejen 4,533 m


Natural resources:

small reserves of gold, platinum, copper, potash, natural gas,
hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 10.01%
permanent crops: 0.65%
other: 89.34% (2005)


Irrigated land:

2,900 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

110 cu km (1987)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 5.56 cu km/yr (6%/0%/94%)
per capita: 72 cu m/yr (2002)


Natural hazards:

geologically active Great Rift Valley susceptible to earthquakes,
volcanic eruptions; frequent droughts


Environment - current issues:

deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification; water
shortages in some areas from water-intensive farming and poor
management


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
Ozone Layer Protection
signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification, Law of the Sea


Geography - note:

landlocked - entire coastline along the Red Sea was lost with the de
jure independence of Eritrea on 24 May 1993; the Blue Nile, the
chief headstream of the Nile by water volume, rises in T'ana Hayk
(Lake Tana) in northwest Ethiopia; three major crops are believed to
have originated in Ethiopia: coffee, grain sorghum, and castor bean


People
Ethiopia



Population:

82,544,840
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 46% (male 18,922,334/female 19,017,593)
15-64 years: 51.4% (male 20,749,002/female 21,656,509)
65 years and over: 2.7% (male 947,323/female 1,252,077) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 16.9 years
male: 16.6 years
female: 17.2 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

3.212% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

43.97 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

11.83 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA
note: repatriation of Ethiopian refugees residing in Sudan is
expected to continue for several years; some Sudanese, Somali, and
Eritrean refugees, who fled to Ethiopia from the fighting or famine
in their own countries, continue to return to their homes (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.96 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.76 male(s)/female
total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 82.64 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 94.08 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 70.87 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 54.99 years
male: 52.54 years
female: 57.51 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

6.17 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

4.4% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

1.5 million (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

120,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A and E, and typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: malaria
respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis
animal contact disease: rabies
water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Ethiopian(s)
adjective: Ethiopian


Ethnic groups:

Oromo 32.1%, Amara 30.1%, Tigraway 6.2%, Somalie 5.9%, Guragie 4.3%,
Sidama 3.5%, Welaita 2.4%, other 15.4% (1994 census)


Religions:

Christian 60.8% (Orthodox 50.6%, Protestant 10.2%), Muslim 32.8%,
traditional 4.6%, other 1.8% (1994 census)


Languages:

Amarigna 32.7%, Oromigna 31.6%, Tigrigna 6.1%, Somaligna 6%,
Guaragigna 3.5%, Sidamigna 3.5%, Hadiyigna 1.7%, other 14.8%,
English (major foreign language taught in schools) (1994 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 42.7%
male: 50.3%
female: 35.1% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 8 years
male: 8 years
female: 7 years (2007)


Education expenditures:

6% of GDP (2006)


Government
Ethiopia



Country name:

conventional long form: Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
conventional short form: Ethiopia
local long form: Ityop'iya Federalawi Demokrasiyawi Ripeblik
local short form: Ityop'iya
former: Abyssinia, Italian East Africa
abbreviation: FDRE


Government type:

federal republic


Capital:

name: Addis Ababa
geographic coordinates: 9 02 N, 38 42 E
time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

9 ethnically based states (kililoch, singular - kilil) and 2
self-governing administrations* (astedaderoch, singular -
astedader); Adis Abeba* (Addis Ababa), Afar, Amara (Amhara),
Binshangul Gumuz, Dire Dawa*, Gambela Hizboch (Gambela Peoples),
Hareri Hizb (Harari People), Oromiya (Oromia), Sumale (Somali),
Tigray, Ye Debub Biheroch Bihereseboch na Hizboch (Southern Nations,
Nationalities and Peoples)


Independence:

oldest independent country in Africa and one of the oldest in the
world - at least 2,000 years


National holiday:

National Day (defeat of MENGISTU regime), 28 May (1991)


Constitution:

ratified 8 December 1994, effective 22 August 1995


Legal system:

based on civil law; currently transitional mix of national and
regional courts; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President GIRMA Woldegiorgis (since 8 October 2001)
head of government: Prime Minister MELES Zenawi (since August 1995)
cabinet: Council of Ministers as provided for in the December 1994
constitution; ministers are selected by the prime minister and
approved by the House of People's Representatives
elections: president elected by the House of People's
Representatives for a six-year term (eligible for a second term);
election last held 9 October 2007 (next to be held in October 2013);
prime minister designated by the party in power following
legislative elections
election results: GIRMA Woldegiorgis elected president; percent of
vote by the House of People's Representatives - 79%


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament consists of the House of Federation (or upper
chamber responsible for interpreting the constitution and
federal-regional issues) (108 seats; members are chosen by state
assemblies to serve five-year terms) and the House of People's
Representatives (or lower chamber responsible for passing
legislation) (547 seats; members are directly elected by popular
vote from single-member districts to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held 15 May 2005 (next to be held in 2010)
election results: percent of vote - NA; seats by party - EPRDF 327,
CUD 109, UEDF 52, SPDP 23, OFDM 11, BGPDUF 8, ANDP 8, independent 1,
others 6, undeclared 2
note: some seats still remain vacant as detained opposition MPs did
not take their seats


Judicial branch:

Federal Supreme Court (the president and vice president of the
Federal Supreme Court are recommended by the prime minister and
appointed by the House of People's Representatives; for other
federal judges, the prime minister submits to the House of People's
Representatives for appointment candidates selected by the Federal
Judicial Administrative Council)


Political parties and leaders:

Afar National Democratic Party or ANDP; Benishangul Gumuz People's
Democratic Unity Front or BGPDUF [Mulualem BESSE]; Coalition for
Unity and Democratic Party or CUDP [AYELE Chamisso] (awarded to
AYELE by the National Electoral Board on 11 January 2008, but AYELE
has virtually no support among former CUD MPs, other CUD MPs must
now be affiliated with their original CUD-precursor parties);
Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front or EPRDF [MELES
Zenawi] (an alliance of Amhara National Democratic Movement or ANDM,
Oromo People's Democratic Organization or OPDO, the South Ethiopian
People's Democratic Front or SEPDF, and Tigrayan Peoples' Liberation
Front or TPLF); Gurage Nationalities' Democratic Movement or GNDM;
Oromo Federalist Democratic Movement or OFDM [BULCHA Demeksa]; Omoro
People's Congress or OPC [IMERERA Gudina]; Somali People's
Democratic Party or SPDP; United Ethiopian Democratic Forces or UEDF
[BEYENE Petros]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Ethiopian People's Patriotic Front or EPPF; Ogaden National
Liberation Front or ONLF; Oromo Liberation Front or OLF [DAOUD Ibsa]


International organization participation:

ACP, AfDB, AU, COMESA, FAO, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IGAD, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM
(observer), IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OPCW, PCA, UN,
UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCO,
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Samuel ASSEFA
chancery: 3506 International Drive NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 364-1200
FAX: [1] (202) 587-0195
consulate(s) general: Los Angeles
consulate(s): New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Donald Y. YAMAMOTO
embassy: Entoto Street, Addis Ababa
mailing address: P. O. Box 1014, Addis Ababa
telephone: [251] 11-517-40-00
FAX: [251] 11-517-40-01


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of green (top), yellow, and red with a
yellow pentagram and single yellow rays emanating from the angles
between the points on a light blue disk centered on the three bands;
Ethiopia is the oldest independent country in Africa, and the three
main colors of her flag were so often adopted by other African
countries upon independence that they became known as the
pan-African colors


Economy
Ethiopia



Economy - overview:

Ethiopia's poverty-stricken economy is based on agriculture,
accounting for almost half of GDP, 60% of exports, and 80% of total
employment. The agricultural sector suffers from frequent drought
and poor cultivation practices. Coffee is critical to the Ethiopian
economy with exports of some $350 million in 2006, but historically
low prices have seen many farmers switching to qat to supplement
income. The war with Eritrea in 1998-2000 and recurrent drought have
buffeted the economy, in particular coffee production. In November
2001, Ethiopia qualified for debt relief from the Highly Indebted
Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative, and in December 2005 the IMF voted
to forgive Ethiopia's debt to the body. Under Ethiopia's
constitution, the state owns all land and provides long-term leases
to the tenants; the system continues to hamper growth in the
industrial sector as entrepreneurs are unable to use land as
collateral for loans. Drought struck again late in 2002, leading to
a 3.3% decline in GDP in 2003. Normal weather patterns helped
agricultural and GDP growth recover during 2004-07.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$56.05 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$19.43 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

11.1% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$700 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 47%
industry: 13.2%
services: 39.8% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

27.27 million (1999)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 80%
industry: 8%
services: 12% (1985)


Unemployment rate:

NA%


Population below poverty line:

38.7% (FY05/06 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 3.9%
highest 10%: 25.5% (2000)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

30 (2000)


Investment (gross fixed):

25.9% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $3.231 billion
expenditures: $3.785 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

8 July - 7 July


Public debt:

44.5% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

17.2% (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

7% (31 December 2006)


Stock of money:

$3.651 billion (31 December 2006)


Stock of quasi money:

$3.258 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$6.694 billion (31 December 2006)


Agriculture - products:

cereals, pulses, coffee, oilseed, cotton, sugarcane, potatoes, qat,
cut flowers; hides, cattle, sheep, goats; fish


Industries:

food processing, beverages, textiles, leather, chemicals, metals
processing, cement


Industrial production growth rate:

11% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

3.268 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

2.941 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 1.3%
hydro: 97.6%
nuclear: 0%
other: 1.2% (2001)


Oil - production:

7.334 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

30,450 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

29,820 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

428,000 bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

24.92 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$826.8 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$1.288 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

coffee, qat, gold, leather products, live animals, oilseeds


Exports - partners:

Germany 8.2%, Saudi Arabia 7%, US 6.9%, Djibouti 6.6%, China 6.5%,
Italy 6.5%, Japan 5.9%, Netherlands 4.8% (2007)


Imports:

$5.165 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

food and live animals, petroleum and petroleum products, chemicals,
machinery, motor vehicles, cereals, textiles


Imports - partners:

Saudi Arabia 17%, China 15.9%, India 7.8%, Italy 5.1% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$1.6 billion (FY05/06)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$1.294 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$2.621 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

birr (ETB)


Currency code:

ETB


Exchange rates:

birr (ETB) per US dollar - 8.96 (2007), 8.69 (2006), 8.68 (2005),
8.6356 (2004), 8.5997 (2003)
note: since 24 October 2001, exchange rates are determined on a
daily basis via interbank transactions regulated by the Central Bank


Communications
Ethiopia



Telephones - main lines in use:

880,100 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

1.208 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: inadequate telephone system; the number of fixed
lines and mobile telephones is increasing from a very small base;
combined fixed and mobile-cellular teledensity is only about 2 per
100 persons
domestic: open-wire; microwave radio relay; radio communication in
the HF, VHF, and UHF frequencies; 2 domestic satellites provide the
national trunk service
international: country code - 251; open-wire to Sudan and Djibouti;
microwave radio relay to Kenya and Djibouti; satellite earth
stations - 3 Intelsat (1 Atlantic Ocean and 2 Pacific Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 8, FM 0, shortwave 1 (2001)


Radios:

15.2 million (2002)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (plus 24 repeaters) (2001)


Televisions:

682,000 (2002)


Internet country code:

.et


Internet hosts:

128 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2002)


Internet users:

291,000 (2007)


Transportation
Ethiopia



Airports:

84 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 15
over 3,047 m: 3
2,438 to 3,047 m: 5
1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 69
over 3,047 m: 3
2,438 to 3,047 m: 5
1,524 to 2,437 m: 11
914 to 1,523 m: 29
under 914 m: 21 (2007)


Railways:

total: 699 km (Ethiopian segment of the Addis Ababa-Djibouti
railroad)
narrow gauge: 699 km 1.000-m gauge
note: railway under joint control of Djibouti and Ethiopia but
remains largely inoperable (2006)


Roadways:

total: 36,469 km
paved: 6,980 km
unpaved: 29,489 km (2004)


Merchant marine:

total: 9
by type: cargo 8, roll on/roll off 1 (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Ethiopia is landlocked and uses ports of Djibouti in Djibouti and
Berbera in Somalia


Military
Ethiopia



Military branches:

Ethiopian National Defense Force (ENDF): Ground Forces, Ethiopian
Air Force (ETAF) (2008)
note: Ethiopia is landlocked and has no navy; following the
secession of Eritrea, Ethiopian naval facilities remained in
Eritrean possession


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military service;
theoretically, no compulsory military service, but the military can
conduct call-ups when necessary and compliance is compulsory (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 17,666,967
females age 16-49: 17,530,211 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 10,060,775
females age 16-49: 9,854,710 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 887,061
female: 896,048 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

3% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Ethiopia



Disputes - international:

Eritrea and Ethiopia agreed to abide by the 2002 Eritrea-Ethiopia
Boundary Commission's (EEBC) delimitation decision, but neither
party responded to the revised line detailed in the November 2006
EEBC Demarcation Statement; UN Peacekeeping Mission to Ethiopia and
Eritrea (UNMEE), which has monitored the 25-km-wide Temporary
Security Zone in Eritrea since 2000, is extended for six months in
2007 despite Eritrean restrictions on its operations and reduced
force of 17,000; the undemarcated former British administrative line
has little meaning as a political separation to rival clans within
Ethiopia's Ogaden and southern Somalia's Oromo region; Ethiopian
forces invaded southern Somalia and routed Islamist Courts from
Mogadishu in January 2007; "Somaliland" secessionists provide port
facilities in Berbera and trade ties to landlocked Ethiopia; civil
unrest in eastern Sudan has hampered efforts to demarcate the porous
boundary with Ethiopia


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 66,980 (Sudan); 16,576 (Somalia);
13,078 (Eritrea)
IDPs: 200,000 (border war with Eritrea from 1998-2000, ethnic
clashes in Gambela, and ongoing Ethiopian military counterinsurgency
in Somali region; most IDPs are in Tigray and Gambela Provinces)
(2007)


Illicit drugs:

transit hub for heroin originating in Southwest and Southeast Asia
and destined for Europe, as well as cocaine destined for markets in
southern Africa; cultivates qat (khat) for local use and regional
export, principally to Djibouti and Somalia (legal in all three
countries); the lack of a well-developed financial system limits the
country's utility as a money laundering center



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@European Union

Introduction
European Union



Preliminary statement:

The evolution of the European Union (EU) from a regional economic
agreement among six neighboring states in 1951 to today's
supranational organization of 27 countries across the European
continent stands as an unprecedented phenomenon in the annals of
history. Dynastic unions for territorial consolidation were long the
norm in Europe. On a few occasions even country-level unions were
arranged - the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth and the
Austro-Hungarian Empire were examples - but for such a large number
of nation-states to cede some of their sovereignty to an overarching
entity is truly unique.
Although the EU is not a federation in the strict sense, it is far
more than a free-trade association such as ASEAN, NAFTA, or
Mercosur, and it has many of the attributes associated with
independent nations: its own flag, anthem, founding date, and
currency, as well as an incipient common foreign and security policy
in its dealings with other nations.
In the future, many of these nation-like characteristics are likely
to be expanded. Thus, inclusion of basic intelligence on the EU has
been deemed appropriate as a new, separate entity in The World
Factbook. However, because of the EU's special status, this
description is placed after the regular country entries.


Background:

Following the two devastating World Wars of the first half of the
20th century, a number of European leaders in the late 1940s became
convinced that the only way to establish a lasting peace was to
unite the two chief belligerent nations - France and Germany - both
economically and politically. In 1950, the French Foreign Minister
Robert SCHUMAN proposed an eventual union of all Europe, the first
step of which would be the integration of the coal and steel
industries of Western Europe. The following year the European Coal
and Steel Community (ECSC) was set up when six members, Belgium,
France, West Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands, signed
the Treaty of Paris.
The ECSC was so successful that within a few years the decision was
made to integrate other parts of the countries' economies. In 1957,
the Treaties of Rome created the European Economic Community (EEC)
and the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom), and the six
member states undertook to eliminate trade barriers among themselves
by forming a common market. In 1967, the institutions of all three
communities were formally merged into the European Community (EC),
creating a single Commission, a single Council of Ministers, and the
European Parliament. Members of the European Parliament were
initially selected by national parliaments, but in 1979 the first
direct elections were undertaken and they have been held every five
years since.
In 1973, the first enlargement of the EC took place with the
addition of Denmark, Ireland, and the United Kingdom. The 1980s saw
further membership expansion with Greece joining in 1981 and Spain
and Portugal in 1986. The 1992 Treaty of Maastricht laid the basis
for further forms of cooperation in foreign and defense policy, in
judicial and internal affairs, and in the creation of an economic
and monetary union - including a common currency. This further
integration created the European Union (EU). In 1995, Austria,
Finland, and Sweden joined the EU, raising the membership total to
15.
A new currency, the euro, was launched in world money markets on 1
January 1999; it became the unit of exchange for all of the EU
states except the United Kingdom, Sweden, and Denmark. In 2002,
citizens of the 12 euro-area countries began using the euro
banknotes and coins. Ten new countries joined the EU in 2004 -
Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania,
Malta, Poland, Slovakia, and Slovenia - and in 2007 Bulgaria and
Romania joined, bringing the current membership to 27. In order to
ensure that the EU can continue to function efficiently with an
expanded membership, the Treaty of Nice (in force as of 1 February
2003) set forth rules streamlining the size and procedures of EU
institutions. An effort to establish an EU constitution, begun in
October 2004, failed to attain unanimous ratification. A new effort,
undertaken in June 2007, calls for the creation of an
Intergovernmental Conference to form a political agreement, known as
the Reform Treaty, which is to serve as a constitution. Unlike the
constitution, however, the Reform Treaty would amend existing
treaties rather than replace them.


Geography
European Union



Location:

Europe between the North Atlantic Ocean in the west and Russia,
Belarus, and Ukraine to the east


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 4,324,782 sq km


Area - comparative:

less than one-half the size of the US


Land boundaries:

total: 12,440.8 km
border countries: Albania 282 km, Andorra 120.3 km, Belarus 1,050
km, Croatia 999 km, Holy See 3.2 km, Liechtenstein 34.9 km,
Macedonia 394 km, Moldova 450 km, Monaco 4.4 km, Norway 2,348 km,
Russia 2,257 km, San Marino 39 km, Serbia 945 km, Switzerland 1,811
km, Turkey 446 km, Ukraine 1,257 km
note: data for European Continent only


Coastline:

65,992.9 km


Maritime claims:

NA


Climate:

cold temperate; potentially subarctic in the north to temperate;
mild wet winters; hot dry summers in the south


Terrain:

fairly flat along the Baltic and Atlantic coast; mountainous in the
central and southern areas


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Lammefjord, Denmark -7 m; Zuidplaspolder, Netherlands
-7 m
highest point: Mont Blanc 4,807 m; note - situated on the border
between France and Italy


Natural resources:

iron ore, natural gas, petroleum, coal, copper, lead, zinc, bauxite,
uranium, potash, salt, hydropower, arable land, timber, fish


Land use:

arable land: NA
permanent crops: NA
other: NA


Irrigated land:

168,050 sq km (2003 est.)


Natural hazards:

flooding along coasts; avalanches in mountainous area; earthquakes
in the south; volcanic eruptions in Italy; periodic droughts in
Spain; ice floes in the Baltic


Environment - current issues:

NA


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94,
Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes,
Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Tropical Timber 82, Tropical
Timber 94
signed but not ratified: Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds


People
European Union



Population:

491,018,683 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 15.7% (male 37,208,905/female 35,254,445)
15-64 years: 67.2% (male 155,807,769/female 153,690,235)
65 years and over: 17.1% (male 32,592,595/female 46,273,197) (2008
est.)


Median age:

note - see individual country entries of member states


Population growth rate:

0.11% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

10.25 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

10.39 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

1.23 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.68 male(s)/female
total population: 0.92 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 6.38 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 7.23 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 5.49 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 77.32 years
male: 74 years
female: 80.84 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.5 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

note - see individual country entries of member states


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

note - see individual country entries of member states


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

note - see individual country entries of member states


Religions:

Roman Catholic, Protestant, Orthodox, Muslim, Jewish


Languages:

Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French,
Gaelic, German, Greek, Hungarian, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian,
Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Slovak, Slovene, Spanish,
Swedish
note: only official languages are listed; German, the major language
of Germany, Austria, and Switzerland, is the most widely spoken
mother tongue - over 19% of the EU population; English is the most
widely spoken language - about 49% of the EU population is
conversant with it (2007)


Government
European Union



Union name:

conventional long form: European Union
abbreviation: EU


Political structure:

a hybrid intergovernmental and supranational organization


Capital:

name: Brussels (Belgium), Strasbourg (France), Luxembourg
geographic coordinates: 50 50 N, 4 20 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October
note: the Council of the European Union meets in Brussels, Belgium,
the European Parliament meets in Brussels and Strasbourg, France,
and the Court of Justice of the European Communities meets in
Luxembourg


Member states:

27 countries: Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary,
Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands,
Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, UK;
note - Canary Islands (Spain), Azores and Madeira (Portugal), French
Guiana, Guadeloupe, Martinique, and Reunion (France) are sometimes
listed separately even though they are legally a part of Spain,
Portugal, and France; candidate countries: Croatia, Macedonia, Turkey


Independence:

7 February 1992 (Maastricht Treaty signed establishing the EU); 1
November 1993 (Maastricht Treaty entered into force)


National holiday:

Europe Day 9 May (1950); note - a Union-wide holiday, the day that
Robert SCHUMAN proposed the creation of the European Coal and Steel
Community to achieve an organized Europe


Constitution:

based on a series of treaties: the Treaty of Paris, which set up the
European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) in 1951; the Treaties of
Rome, which set up the European Economic Community (EEC) and the
European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom) in 1957; the Single
European Act in 1986; the Treaty on European Union (Maastricht) in
1992; the Treaty of Amsterdam in 1997; and the Treaty of Nice in
2003; note - a new draft Constitutional Treaty, signed on 29 October
2004 in Rome, gave member states two years for ratification either
by parliamentary vote or national referendum before it was scheduled
to take effect on 1 November 2006; defeat in French and Dutch
referenda in May-June 2005 dealt a severe setback to the
ratification process; in June 2007, the European Council agreed on a
clear and concise mandate for an Intergovernmental Conference to
form a political agreement and put it into legal form; this
agreement, known as the Reform Treaty, would have served as a
constitution and was presented to the European Council in October
2007 for individual country ratification; it was rejected by Irish
voters in June 2008, again stalling the ratification process


Legal system:

comparable to the legal systems of member states; first
supranational law system


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of union: President of the European Commission Jose Manuel
DURAO BARROSO (since 22 November 2004)
cabinet: European Commission (composed of 27 members, one from each
member country; each commissioner responsible for one or more policy
areas)
elections: the president of the European Commission is designated by
member governments and is confirmed by the European Parliament;
working from member state recommendations, the Commission president
then assembles a "college" of Commission members; the European
Parliament confirms the entire Commission for a five-year term; the
last confirmation process was held 18 November 2004 (next to be held
in 2009)
election results: European Parliament approved the European
Commission by an approval vote of 449 to 149 with 82 abstentions
note: the European Council brings together heads of state and
government and the president of the European Commission and meets at
least four times a year; its aim is to provide the impetus for the
major political issues relating to European integration and to issue
general policy guidelines


Legislative branch:

two legislative bodies consisting of the Council of the European
Union (27 member-state ministers having 345 votes; the number of
votes is roughly proportional to member-states' population; note -
the Council is the main decision-making body of the EU) and the
European Parliament (785 seats, as of 1 January 2007; seats
allocated among member states by proportion to population; members
elected by direct universal suffrage for a five-year term)
elections: last held 10-13 June 2004 (next to be held June 2009)
election results: percent of vote - NA; seats by party - EPP-ED 268,
PES 202, ALDE 88, Greens/EFA 42, EUL/NGL 41, IND/DEM 36, UEN 27,
independents 28; note - seats by party as of 1 December 2007 -
EPP-ED 275, PES 217, ALDE 104, UEN 44, Greens/EFA 42, EUL/NGL 41,
IND/DEM 24, independents 34, 4 unaccounted for


Judicial branch:

Court of Justice of the European Communities (ensures that the
treaties are interpreted and applied uniformly throughout the EU;
resolve constitutional issues among the EU institutions) - 27
justices (one from each member state) appointed for a six-year term;
note - for the sake of efficiency, the court can sit with 13
justices known as the "Grand Chamber"; Court of First Instance - 27
justices appointed for a six-year term


Political parties and leaders:

Confederal Group of the European United Left-Nordic Green Left or
EUL/NGL [Francis WURTZ]; European People's Party-European Democrats
or EPP-ED [Joseph DAUL]; Group of the Alliance of Liberals and
Democrats for Europe or ALDE [Graham R. WATSON]; Group of
Greens/European Free Alliance or Greens/EFA [Monica FRASSONI and
Daniel Marc COHN-BENDIT]; Identity, Tradition, Sovereignty Group or
ITS [Bruno GOLLNISCH]; Independence/Democracy Group or IND/DEM
[Jens-Peter BONDE and Nigel FARAGE]; Socialist Group in the European
Parliament or PES [Martin SCHULZ]; Union for Europe of the Nations
Group or UEN [Brian CROWLEY and Cristiana MUSCARDINI]


International organization participation:

European Union: ARF (dialogue member), ASEAN (dialogue member), IDA,
OAS (observer), PIF (partner), SAARC (observer), UN (observer)
European Community: Australian Group, CBSS, CERN, FAO, EBRD, G-10,
LAIA, NSG (observer), OECD, UNRWA, WCO, WTO, ZC (observer)
European Central Bank: BIS
European Investment Bank: EBRD, WADB (nonregional member)


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador John BRUTON
chancery: 2300 M Street, NW, Washington, DC 20037
telephone: [1] (202) 862-9500
FAX: [1] (202) 429-1766


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Kristen SILVERBERG
embassy: 13 Zinnerstraat/Rue Zinner, B-1000 Brussels
mailing address: same as above
telephone: [32] (2) 508-2111
FAX: [32] (2) 508-2063


Flag description:

blue field with 12 five-pointed gold stars arranged in a circle in
the center, representing the union of the peoples of Europe; the
number of stars is fixed


Economy
European Union



Economy - overview:

Internally, the EU is attempting to lower trade barriers, adopt a
common currency, and move toward convergence of living standards.
Internationally, the EU aims to bolster Europe's trade position and
its political and economic power. Because of the great differences
in per capita income among member states (from $7,000 to $69,000)
and historic national animosities, the EU faces difficulties in
devising and enforcing common policies. For example, since 2003
Germany and France have flouted the member states' treaty obligation
to prevent their national budgets from running more than a 3%
deficit. In 2004 and 2007, the EU admitted 10 and two countries,
respectively, that are, in general, less advanced technologically
and economically than the other 15. Eleven established EU member
states introduced the euro as their common currency on 1 January
1999 (Greece did so two years later), but the UK, Sweden, and
Denmark chose not to participate. Of the 12 most recent member
states, only Slovenia (1 January 2007) and Cyprus and Malta (1
January 2008) have adopted the euro; the remaining nine are legally
required to adopt the currency upon meeting EU's fiscal and monetary
convergence criteria.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$14.43 trillion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$16.62 trillion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

3% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$32,700 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 2.1%
industry: 27.1%
services: 70.7% (2006 est.)


Labor force:

222.7 million (2006 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 4.4%
industry: 27.1%
services: 67.1%
note: the remainder is in miscellaneous public and private sector
industries and services (2002 est.)


Unemployment rate:

8.5% (2006 est.)


Population below poverty line:

note - see individual country entries of member states


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.8%
highest 10%: 25.2% (2001 est.)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

30.7 (2003 est.)


Investment (gross fixed):

21.5% of GDP (2006 est.)


Fiscal year:

NA


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

1.8% (2006 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

5%
note: This is the European Central Bank's rate on the marginal
lending facility, which offers overnight credit to banks from the
Eurosystem (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

8.03% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$5.742 trillion
note: this is the quantity of money, M1, for the Euro Area,
converted into US dollars at the exchange rate for the date
indicated; it excludes the stock of money carried by non-Eurozone
members of the European Union


Stock of quasi money:

$10.93 trillion
note: this is the quantity of quasi money, M2, for the Euro Area,
converted into US dollars at the exchange rate for the date
indicated; it excludes the stock of quasi money carried by
non-Eurozone members of the European Union


Stock of domestic credit:

$20.94 trillion
note: this figure refers to the Euro area only; it excludes credit
data for members of the EU outside the Eurozone (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

wheat, barley, oilseeds, sugar beets, wine, grapes; dairy products,
cattle, sheep, pigs, poultry; fish


Industries:

among the world's largest and most technologically advanced, the
European Union industrial base includes: ferrous and non-ferrous
metal production and processing, metal products, petroleum, coal,
cement, chemicals, pharmaceuticals, aerospace, rail transportation
equipment, passenger and commercial vehicles, construction
equipment, industrial equipment, shipbuilding, electrical power
equipment, machine tools and automated manufacturing systems,
electronics and telecommunications equipment, fishing, food and
beverage processing, furniture, paper, textiles, tourism


Industrial production growth rate:

3.2% (2006 est.)


Electricity - production:

3.056 trillion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

2.858 trillion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - exports:

NA kWh


Electricity - imports:

NA kWh


Oil - production:

2.674 million bbl/day (2007)


Oil - consumption:

14.39 million bbl/day (2007)


Oil - exports:

6.979 million bbl/day (2001)


Oil - imports:

17.71 million bbl/day (2001)


Oil - proved reserves:

6.144 billion bbl (1 January 2008)


Natural gas - production:

197.8 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

500.1 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

76.48 billion cu m (2005 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

361.2 billion cu m (2005 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

2.476 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$NA


Exports:

$1.33 trillion; note - external exports, excluding intra-EU trade
(2005)


Exports - commodities:

machinery, motor vehicles, aircraft, plastics, pharmaceuticals and
other chemicals, fuels, iron and steel, nonferrous metals, wood pulp
and paper products, textiles, meat, dairy products, fish, alcoholic
beverages.


Exports - partners:

US 23.3%, Switzerland 7.6%, Russia 5.2%, China 4.8% (2006)


Imports:

$1.466 trillion; note - external imports, excluding intra-EU trade
(2005)


Imports - commodities:

machinery, vehicles, aircraft, plastics, crude oil, chemicals,
textiles, metals, foodstuffs, clothing


Imports - partners:

US 13.8%, China 13.4%, Russia 8.2%, Japan 6.2% (2006)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$11.64 trillion (2006)


Currency (code):

euro, British pound, Bulgarian lev, Czech koruna, Danish krone,
Estonian kroon, Hungarian forint, Latvian lat, Lithuanian litas,
Polish zloty, Romanian leu, Slovak koruna, Swedish krona


Currency code:

EUR


Exchange rates:

euros per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006), 0.8041 (2005),
0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)


Communications
European Union



Telephones - main lines in use:

238 million (2005)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

466 million (2005)


Telephone system:

note - see individual country entries of member states


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 930, FM 13,655, shortwave 71 (1998); note - sum of individual
country radio broadcast stations; there is also a European-wide
station (Euroradio)


Television broadcast stations:

2,700 (1995); note - sum of individual country television broadcast
stations excluding repeaters; there is also a European-wide station
(Eurovision)


Internet country code:

.eu (effective 2005); note - see country entries of member states
for individual country codes


Internet hosts:

31,693 (2008); note - this sum reflects the number of internet hosts
assigned the .eu internet country code


Internet users:

247 million (2006)


Transportation
European Union



Airports:

3,393 (2006)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1,991
over 3,047m: 110
2,438 to 3,047m: 347
1,524 to 2,437m: 545
914 to 1,523m: 420
under 914m: 569 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 1,373
over 3,047m: 2
2,438 to 3,047m: 5
1,524 to 2,437m: 30
914m to 1,523m: 267
under 914m: 1,043 (2007)


Heliports:

100 (2007)


Railways:

total: 236,436 km
broad gauge: 28,250 km
standard gauge: 200,401 km
narrow gauge: 7,771 km
other: 23 km (2007)


Roadways:

total: 5,454,446 km (2008)


Waterways:

52,332 km (2006)


Ports and terminals:

Antwerp (Belgium), Barcelona (Spain), Braila (Romania), Bremen
(Germany), Burgas (Bulgaria), Constanta (Romania), Copenhagen
(Denmark), Galati (Romania), Gdansk (Poland), Hamburg (Germany),
Helsinki (Finland), Las Palmas (Canary Islands, Spain), Le Havre
(France), Lisbon (Portugal), London (UK), Marseille (France), Naples
(Italy), Peiraiefs or Piraeus (Greece), Riga (Latvia), Rotterdam
(Netherlands), Stockholm (Sweden), Talinn (Estonia), Tulcea
(Romania), Varna (Bulgaria)


Military
European Union



Military - note:

the five-nation Eurocorps - created in 1992 by France, Germany,
Belgium, Spain, and Luxembourg - has deployed troops and police on
peacekeeping missions to Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia, and the
Democratic Republic of the Congo and assumed command of the ISAF in
Afghanistan in August 2004; Eurocorps directly commands the
5,000-man Franco-German Brigade, the Multinational Command Support
Brigade, and EUFOR in Bosnia and Herzegovina; in November 2004, the
EU Council of Ministers formally committed to creating 13 1,500-man
battle groups by the end of 2007, to respond to international crises
on a rotating basis; 22 of the EU's 25 nations have agreed to supply
troops; France, Italy, and the UK formed the first of three battle
groups in 2005; Norway, Sweden, Estonia, and Finland established the
Nordic Battle Group effective 1 January 2008; nine other groups are
to be formed; a rapid-reaction naval EU Maritime Task Group was
stood up in March 2007 (2007)


Transnational Issues
European Union



Disputes - international:

as a political union, the EU has no border disputes with neighboring
countries, but Estonia has no land boundary agreements with Russia,
Slovenia disputes its land and maritime boundaries with Croatia, and
Spain has territorial and maritime disputes with Morocco and with
the UK over Gibraltar; the EU has set up a Schengen area -
consisting of 22 EU member states that have signed the convention
implementing the Schengen agreements or "acquis" (1985 and 1990) on
the free movement of persons and the harmonization of border
controls in Europe; these agreements became incorporated into EU law
with the implementation of the 1997 Treaty of Amsterdam on 1 May
1999; in addition, non-EU states Iceland and Norway (as part of the
Nordic Union) have been included in the Schengen area since 1996
(full members in 2001), and Switzerland since 2008 bringing the
total current membership to 25; the UK (since 2000) and Ireland
(since 2002) take part in only some aspects of the Schengen area,
especially with respect to police and criminal matters; nine of the
12 new member states that joined the EU since 2004 joined Schengen
on 21 December 2007; of the three remaining EU states, Cyprus is
expected to join by 2009, while Romania and Bulgaria continue to
enhance their border security systems



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)

Introduction
Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)



Background:

Although first sighted by an English navigator in 1592, the first
landing (English) did not occur until almost a century later in
1690, and the first settlement (French) was not established until
1764. The colony was turned over to Spain two years later and the
islands have since been the subject of a territorial dispute, first
between Britain and Spain, then between Britain and Argentina. The
UK asserted its claim to the islands by establishing a naval
garrison there in 1833. Argentina invaded the islands on 2 April
1982. The British responded with an expeditionary force that landed
seven weeks later and after fierce fighting forced an Argentine
surrender on 14 June 1982.


Geography
Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)



Location:

Southern South America, islands in the South Atlantic Ocean, east of
southern Argentina


Geographic coordinates:

51 45 S, 59 00 W


Map references:

South America


Area:

total: 12,173 sq km
land: 12,173 sq km
water: 0 sq km
note: includes the two main islands of East and West Falkland and
about 200 small islands


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Connecticut


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

1,288 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm
exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm


Climate:

cold marine; strong westerly winds, cloudy, humid; rain occurs on
more than half of days in year; average annual rainfall is 24 inches
in Stanley; occasional snow all year, except in January and
February, but does not accumulate


Terrain:

rocky, hilly, mountainous with some boggy, undulating plains


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Mount Usborne 705 m


Natural resources:

fish, squid, wildlife, calcified seaweed, sphagnum moss


Land use:

arable land: 0%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 100% (99% permanent pastures, 1% other) (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

strong winds persist throughout the year


Environment - current issues:

overfishing by unlicensed vessels is a problem; reindeer were
introduced to the islands in 2001 for commercial reasons; this is
the only commercial reindeer herd in the world unaffected by the
1986 Chornobyl disaster


Geography - note:

deeply indented coast provides good natural harbors; short growing
season


People
Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)



Population:

3,140 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: NA
15-64 years: NA
65 years and over: NA


Population growth rate:

0.011% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Death rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: NA
male: NA
female: NA (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: NA
male: NA
female: NA (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

NA (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Falkland Islander(s)
adjective: Falkland Island


Ethnic groups:

British


Religions:

Christian 67.2%, none 31.5%, other 1.3% (2006 census)


Languages:

English


Literacy:

NA


Government
Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)


Dependency status:

overseas territory of the UK; also claimed by Argentina


Government type:

NA


Capital:

name: Stanley
geographic coordinates: 51 42 S, 57 51 W
time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins first Sunday in September; ends
third Sunday in April


Administrative divisions:

none (overseas territory of the UK; also claimed by Argentina)


Independence:

none (overseas territory of the UK; also claimed by Argentina)


National holiday:

Liberation Day, 14 June (1982)


Constitution:

3 October 1985; amended 1997 and 1998


Legal system:

English common law


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952)
head of government: Governor Alan HUCKLE (since 25 August 2006);
Chief Executive Dr. Tim THOROGOOD (since 3 January 2008)
cabinet: Executive Council; three members elected by the Legislative
Council, two ex officio members (chief executive and the financial
secretary), and the governor
elections: the monarchy is hereditary; governor appointed by the
monarch


Legislative branch:

unicameral Legislative Council (10 seats; 2 members are ex officio
and 8 are elected by popular vote; to serve four-year terms);
presided over by the governor
elections: last held 17 November 2005 (next to be held in November
2009)
election results: percent of vote - NA; seats - independents 8


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (chief justice is a nonresident); Magistrates Court
(senior magistrate presides over civil and criminal divisions);
Court of Summary Jurisdiction


Political parties and leaders:

none; all independents


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Falkland Islands Association (supports freedom of the people from
external causes)


International organization participation:

UPU


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (overseas territory of the UK; also claimed by Argentina)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (overseas territory of the UK; also claimed by Argentina)


Flag description:

blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and
the Falkland Island coat of arms centered on the outer half of the
flag; the coat of arms contains a white ram (sheep raising was once
the major economic activity) above the sailing ship Desire (whose
crew discovered the islands) with a scroll at the bottom bearing the
motto DESIRE THE RIGHT


Economy
Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)



Economy - overview:

The economy was formerly based on agriculture, mainly sheep farming,
but today fishing contributes the bulk of economic activity. In
1987, the government began selling fishing licenses to foreign
trawlers operating within the Falkland Islands' exclusive fishing
zone. These license fees total more than $40 million per year, which
help support the island's health, education, and welfare system.
Squid accounts for 75% of the fish taken. Dairy farming supports
domestic consumption; crops furnish winter fodder. Exports feature
shipments of high-grade wool to the UK and the sale of postage
stamps and coins. The islands are now self-financing except for
defense. The British Geological Survey announced a 200-mile oil
exploration zone around the islands in 1993, and early seismic
surveys suggest substantial reserves capable of producing 500,000
barrels per day; to date, no exploitable site has been identified.
An agreement between Argentina and the UK in 1995 seeks to defuse
licensing and sovereignty conflicts that would dampen foreign
interest in exploiting potential oil reserves. Tourism, especially
eco-tourism, is increasing rapidly, with about 30,000 visitors in
2001. Another large source of income is interest paid on money the
government has in the bank. The British military presence also
provides a sizeable economic boost.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$75 million (2002 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$NA


GDP - real growth rate:

NA%


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$25,000 (2002 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 95%
industry: NA%
services: NA%


Labor force:

1,724 (est.) (1996)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 95% (mostly sheepherding and fishing)
industry and services: 5% (1996)


Unemployment rate:

full employment; labor shortage (2001)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $66.2 million
expenditures: $67.9 million (FY98/99 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 April - 31 March


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

3.6% (1998)


Agriculture - products:

fodder and vegetable crops; sheep, dairy products; fish, squid


Industries:

fish and wool processing; tourism


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

16 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

14.88 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

252.3 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

248.9 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Exports:

$125 million (2004 est.)


Exports - commodities:

wool, hides, meat, fish, squid


Exports - partners:

Spain 81.9%, US 6%, UK 4.5% (2006)


Imports:

$90 million (2004 est.)


Imports - commodities:

fuel, food and drink, building materials, clothing


Imports - partners:

UK 72.5%, US 15.1%, Netherlands 8.5% (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$0 (1997 est.)


Debt - external:

$NA


Currency (code):

Falkland pound (FKP)


Currency code:

FKP


Exchange rates:

Falkland pounds (FKP) per US dollar - 0.4993 (2007), 0.5434 (2006),
0.5504 (2005), 0.5462 (2004), 0.6125 (2003)
note: the Falkland pound is at par with the British pound


Communications
Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)



Telephones - main lines in use:

2,400 (2002)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

0 (2001)


Telephone system:

general assessment: NA
domestic: government-operated radiotelephone and private VHF/CB
radiotelephone networks provide effective service to almost all
points on both islands
international: country code - 500; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) with links through London to other
countries


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 7, shortwave 0 (British Forces Broadcasting Service (BFBS)
provides Radio 1 and Radio 2 service) (2006)


Radios:

1,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

2 (British Forces Broadcasting Service (BFBS) provides multi-channel
satellite service to members of UK Forces as well as islanders);
cable television is available in Stanley (2006)


Televisions:

1,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.fk


Internet hosts:

91 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

2 (2000)


Internet users:

1,900 (2002)


Transportation
Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)



Airports:

6 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 4
under 914 m: 4 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 440 km
paved: 50 km
unpaved: 390 km (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Stanley


Military
Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)



Military branches:

no regular military forces


Military expenditures:

NA


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of the UK


Transnational Issues
Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)



Disputes - international:

Argentina, which claims the islands in its constitution and briefly
occupied them by force in 1982, agreed in 1995 to no longer seek
settlement by force; UK continues to reject Argentine requests for
sovereignty talks



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Faroe Islands

Introduction
Faroe Islands



Background:

The population of the Faroe Islands is largely descended from Viking
settlers who arrived in the 9th century. The islands have been
connected politically to Denmark since the 14th century. A high
degree of self government was attained in 1948.


Geography
Faroe Islands



Location:

Northern Europe, island group between the Norwegian Sea and the
North Atlantic Ocean, about half way between Iceland and Norway


Geographic coordinates:

62 00 N, 7 00 W


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 1,399 sq km
land: 1,399 sq km
water: 0 sq km (some lakes and streams)


Area - comparative:

eight times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

1,117 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 3 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm or agreed boundaries or median line
exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm or agreed boundaries or median line


Climate:

mild winters, cool summers; usually overcast; foggy, windy


Terrain:

rugged, rocky, some low peaks; cliffs along most of coast


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Slaettaratindur 882 m


Natural resources:

fish, whales, hydropower, possible oil and gas


Land use:

arable land: 2.14%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 97.86% (2005)


Irrigated land:

0 sq km


Natural hazards:

NA


Environment - current issues:

NA


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Marine Dumping -associate member to the London Convention
and Ship Pollution


Geography - note:

archipelago of 17 inhabited islands and one uninhabited island, and
a few uninhabited islets; strategically located along important sea
lanes in northeastern Atlantic; precipitous terrain limits
habitation to small coastal lowlands


People
Faroe Islands



Population:

48,668 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 21.9% (male 5,489/female 5,166)
15-64 years: 64% (male 16,650/female 14,482)
65 years and over: 14.1% (male 3,233/female 3,648) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 36.7 years
male: 36 years
female: 37.5 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.376% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

13.25 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

8.67 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-0.82 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.07 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.15 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.89 male(s)/female
total population: 1.09 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 6.46 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 6.69 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 6.2 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 79.29 years
male: 76.86 years
female: 81.89 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.45 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Faroese (singular and plural)
adjective: Faroese


Ethnic groups:

Scandinavian


Religions:

Evangelical Lutheran 83.8%, other and unspecified 16.2% (2006
administrative data)


Languages:

Faroese (derived from Old Norse), Danish


Literacy:

NA; note - probably 99%, the same as Denmark proper


Government
Faroe Islands



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Faroe Islands
local long form: none
local short form: Foroyar


Dependency status:

part of the Kingdom of Denmark; self-governing overseas
administrative division of Denmark since 1948


Government type:

NA


Capital:

name: Torshavn
geographic coordinates: 62 01 N, 6 46 W
time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

none (part of the Kingdom of Denmark; self-governing overseas
administrative division of Denmark); there are no first-order
administrative divisions as defined by the US Government, but there
are 34 municipalities


Independence:

none (part of the Kingdom of Denmark; self-governing overseas
administrative division of Denmark)


National holiday:

Olaifest (Olavasoka), 29 July


Constitution:

5 June 1953 (Danish constitution)


Legal system:

the laws of Denmark, where applicable, apply


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen MARGRETHE II of Denmark (since 14 January
1972), represented by High Commissioner Birgit KLEIS, chief
administrative officer (since 1 November 2001)
head of government: Prime Minister Kaj Leo JOHANNESSEN (since 24
September 2008)
cabinet: Landsstyri appointed by the prime minister
elections: the monarch is hereditary; high commissioner appointed by
the monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the
majority party or the leader of the majority coalition is usually
elected prime minister by the Faroese Parliament; election last held
19 January 2008 (next to be held no later than January 2012)
election results: Kaj Leo JOHANNESSEN elected prime minister;
percent of parliamentary vote - NA


Legislative branch:

unicameral Faroese Parliament or Logting (33 seats; members are
elected by popular vote on a proportional basis from the seven
constituencies to serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 19 January 2008 (next to be held no later than
January 2012)
election results: percent of vote by party - Union Party 21%, Social
Democratic Party 19.4%, Republican Party 23.3%, People's Party
20.1%, Center Party 8.4%, Self-Government Party 7.2%, other 0.6%;
seats by party - Republican Party 8, Union Party 7, Social
Democratic Party 6, People's Party 7, Center Party 3, Independence
Party 2
note: election of two seats to the Danish Parliament was last held
on 13 November 2007 (next to be held no later than November 2011);
results - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - Republican
Party 1, Union Party 1


Judicial branch:

none


Political parties and leaders:

Center Party [Jenis A. RANA]; Independence Party [Kari P. HOJGAARD];
People's Party [Jorgen NICLASEN]; Republican Party [Hogni HOYDAL];
Social Democratic Party [Joannes EIDESGAARD]; Union Party [Kaj Leo
JOHANNESEN]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Sea Shepard [Paul WATSON] (preservation of small whales)
other: conservationists


International organization participation:

Arctic Council, FAO, IMO (associate), NC, NIB, UPU


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (self-governing overseas administrative division of Denmark)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (self-governing overseas administrative division of Denmark)


Flag description:

white with a red cross outlined in blue extending to the edges of
the flag; the vertical part of the cross is shifted toward the hoist
side in the style of the Dannebrog (Danish flag)


Economy
Faroe Islands



Economy - overview:

The Faroese economy is dependent on fishing, which makes the economy
vulnerable to price swings. Since 2003 the Faroese economy has
picked up as a result of higher prices for fish and for housing.
Unemployment is minimal and government finances are relatively
sound. Oil finds close to the Islands give hope for economically
recoverable deposits, which could eventually lay the basis for a
more diversified economy and lessen dependence on Danish economic
assistance. Aided by a substantial annual subsidy (about 15% of GDP)
from Denmark, the Faroese have a standard of living not far below
the Danes and other Scandinavians.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$1 billion (2001 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$1.7 billion (2005 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

2.4% (2005 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$31,000 (2001 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 27%
industry: 11%
services: 62% (1999)


Labor force:

24,250 (October 2000)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 33%
industry: 33%
services: 34% (October 2000)


Unemployment rate:

2.1% (2006)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $588 million
expenditures: $623 million (2005)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

1.8% (2005)


Agriculture - products:

milk, potatoes, vegetables; sheep; salmon, other fish


Industries:

fishing, fish processing, small ship repair and refurbishment,
handicrafts


Industrial production growth rate:

8% (1999 est.)


Electricity - production:

295 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

274.4 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 62.4%
hydro: 37.6%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

4,628 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

4,636 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Exports:

$634 million f.o.b. (2006)


Exports - commodities:

fish and fish products 94%, stamps, ships (1999)


Exports - partners:

Denmark 29.6%, UK 24.5%, Norway 13.3%, Nigeria 10.5%, Netherlands
6.8% (2007)


Imports:

$751 million c.i.f. (2006)


Imports - commodities:

consumer goods 36%, raw materials and semi-manufactures 32%,
machinery and transport equipment 29%, fuels, fish, salt (1999)


Imports - partners:

Denmark 51.9%, Norway 21.6%, Sweden 5%, UK 4.6% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$105 million; note - annual subsidy from Denmark (2005)


Debt - external:

$64 million (1999)


Currency (code):

Danish krone (DKK)


Currency code:

DKK


Exchange rates:

Danish kroner (DKK) per US dollar - 5.4797 (2007), 5.9468 (2006),
5.9969 (2005), 5.9911 (2004), 6.5877 (2003)


Communications
Faroe Islands



Telephones - main lines in use:

23,000 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

50,000 (2006)


Telephone system:

general assessment: good international communications; good domestic
facilities
domestic: digitalization was completed in 1998; both NMT (analog)
and GSM (digital) mobile telephone systems are installed
international: country code - 298; satellite earth stations - 1
Orion; 1 fiber-optic submarine cable to the Shetland Islands,
linking the Faroe Islands with Denmark and Iceland; fiber-optic
submarine cable connection to Canada-Europe cable


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 13, shortwave 0 (1998)


Radios:

26,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

3 (plus 43 repeaters) (September 1995)


Televisions:

15,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.fo


Internet hosts:

8,516 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

2 (2000)


Internet users:

34,000 (2006)


Transportation
Faroe Islands



Airports:

1 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 463 km (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 12
by type: cargo 9, passenger/cargo 3
foreign-owned: 5 (Iceland 1, Norway 4) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Torshavn, Vagur


Military
Faroe Islands



Military branches:

no regular military forces


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 11,725 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 9,735 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 400
female: 387 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

NA


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of Denmark


Transnational Issues
Faroe Islands



Disputes - international:

because anticipated offshore hydrocarbon resources have not been
realized, earlier Faroese proposals for full independence have been
deferred; Iceland, the UK, and Ireland dispute Denmark's claim that
the Faroe Islands' continental shelf extends beyond 200 nm



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Fiji

Introduction
Fiji



Background:

Fiji became independent in 1970, after nearly a century as a British
colony. Democratic rule was interrupted by two military coups in
1987, caused by concern over a government perceived as dominated by
the Indian community (descendants of contract laborers brought to
the islands by the British in the 19th century). The coups and a
1990 constitution that cemented native Melanesian control of Fiji,
led to heavy Indian emigration; the population loss resulted in
economic difficulties, but ensured that Melanesians became the
majority. A new constitution enacted in 1997 was more equitable.
Free and peaceful elections in 1999 resulted in a government led by
an Indo-Fijian, but a civilian-led coup in May 2000 ushered in a
prolonged period of political turmoil. Parliamentary elections held
in August 2001 provided Fiji with a democratically elected
government led by Prime Minister Laisenia QARASE. Re-elected in May
2006, QARASE was ousted in a December 2006 military coup led by
Commodore Voreqe BAINIMARAMA, who initially appointed himself acting
president. In January 2007, BAINIMARAMA was appointed interim prime
minister.


Geography
Fiji



Location:

Oceania, island group in the South Pacific Ocean, about two-thirds
of the way from Hawaii to New Zealand


Geographic coordinates:

18 00 S, 175 00 E


Map references:

Oceania


Area:

total: 18,270 sq km
land: 18,270 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than New Jersey


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

1,129 km


Maritime claims:

measured from claimed archipelagic straight baselines
territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation;
rectilinear shelf claim added


Climate:

tropical marine; only slight seasonal temperature variation


Terrain:

mostly mountains of volcanic origin


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: Tomanivi 1,324 m


Natural resources:

timber, fish, gold, copper, offshore oil potential, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 10.95%
permanent crops: 4.65%
other: 84.4% (2005)


Irrigated land:

30 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

28.6 cu km (1987)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.07 cu km/yr (14%/14%/71%)
per capita: 82 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

cyclonic storms can occur from November to January


Environment - current issues:

deforestation; soil erosion


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea,
Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Tropical Timber
83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

includes 332 islands; approximately 110 are inhabited


People
Fiji



Population:

931,741 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 30.6% (male 145,430/female 139,498)
15-64 years: 64.8% (male 302,460/female 301,344)
65 years and over: 4.6% (male 19,413/female 23,596) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 25.2 years
male: 24.7 years
female: 25.7 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.388% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

22.15 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

5.66 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-2.62 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.82 male(s)/female
total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 11.88 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 13.07 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 10.63 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 70.44 years
male: 67.9 years
female: 73.1 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.68 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.1% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

600 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 200 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Fijian(s)
adjective: Fijian


Ethnic groups:

Fijian 57.3% (predominantly Melanesian with a Polynesian admixture),
Indian 37.6%, Rotuman 1.2%, other 3.9% (European, other Pacific
Islanders, Chinese) (2007 census)


Religions:

Christian 53% (Methodist 34.5%, Roman Catholic 7.2%, Assembly of God
3.8%, Seventh Day Adventist 2.6%, other 4.9%), Hindu 34% (Sanatan
25%, Arya Samaj 1.2%, other 7.8%), Muslim 7% (Sunni 4.2%. other
2.8%), other or unspecified 5.6%, none 0.3% (1996 census)


Languages:

English (official), Fijian (official), Hindustani


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 93.7%
male: 95.5%
female: 91.9% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 13 years
male: 13 years
female: 13 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

6.5% of GDP (2004)


Government
Fiji



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of the Fiji Islands
conventional short form: Fiji
local long form: Republic of the Fiji Islands/Matanitu ko Viti
local short form: Fiji/Viti


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Suva (on Viti Levu)
geographic coordinates: 18 08 S, 178 25 E
time difference: UTC+12 (17 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

4 divisions and 1 dependency*; Central, Eastern, Northern, Rotuma*,
Western


Independence:

10 October 1970 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day, second Monday of October (1970)


Constitution:

enacted on 25 July 1997 to encourage multiculturalism and make
multiparty government mandatory; effective 28 July 1998


Legal system:

based on British system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

21 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Ratu Josefa ILOILOVATU Uluivuda (since 18
July 2000); note - ILOILOVATU was reaffirmed as president by the
Great Council of Chiefs in a statement issued on 22 December, and
reappointed by the coup leader Commodore Voreqe BAINIMARAMA in
January 2007
head of government: Prime Minister Laisenia QARASE (since 10
September 2000); note - although QARASE is still the legal prime
minister, he has been confined to his home island; the president
appointed Commodore Voreqe BAINIMARAMA interim prime minister under
the military regime
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the prime minister from among the
members of Parliament and is responsible to Parliament; note - coup
leader Commodore Voreqe BAINIMARAMA has appointed an interim cabinet
elections: president elected by the Great Council of Chiefs for a
five-year term (eligible for a second term); prime minister
appointed by the president; election last held 8 March 2006
election results: Ratu Josefa ILOILOVATU Uluivuda elected president
by the Great Council of Chiefs; percent of vote - NA


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (32 seats; 14 appointed
by the president on the advice of the Great Council of Chiefs, 9
appointed by the president on the advice of the Prime Minister, 8 on
the advice of the Opposition Leader, and 1 appointed on the advice
of the council of Rotuma) and the House of Representatives (71
seats; 23 reserved for ethnic Fijians, 19 reserved for ethnic
Indians, 3 reserved for other ethnic groups, 1 reserved for the
council of Rotuma constituency encompassing the whole of Fiji, and
25 open seats; members serve five-year terms)
elections: House of Representatives - last held 6-13 May 2006 (next
to be held in 2011)
election results: House of Representatives - percent of vote by
party - SDL 44.6%, FLP 39.2%, UPP 0.8%, independents 4.9%, other
10.5%; seats by party - SDL 36, FLP 31, UPP 2, independents 2


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the president); Court of
Appeal; High Court; Magistrates' Courts


Political parties and leaders:

Dodonu Ni Taukei Party or DNT [Fereti S. DEWA]; Fiji Democratic
Party or FDP [Filipe BOLE] (a merger of the Christian Democrat
Alliance or VLV [Poesci Waqalevu BUNE], Fijian Association Party or
FAP, Fijian Political Party or SVT (primarily Fijian) [Sitiveni
RABUKA], and New Labor Unity Party or NLUP [Ofa SWANN]); Fiji Labor
Party or FLP [Mahendra CHAUDHRY]; General Voters Party or GVP
(became part of United General Party); Girmit Heritage Party or GHP;
Justice and Freedom Party or AIM; Lio 'On Famor Rotuma Party or LFR;
National Federation Party or NFP (primarily Indian) [Pramond RAE];
Nationalist Vanua Takolavo Party or NVTLP [Saula TELAWA]; Party of
National Unity or PANU [Ponipate LESAVUA]; Party of the Truth or
POTT; United Fiji Party/Sogosogo Duavata ni Lewenivanua or SDL
[Laisenia QARASE]; United Peoples Party or UPP [Millis Mick BEDDOES]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Group Against Racial Discrimination or GARD [Dr. Anirudk SINGH] (for
restoration of a democratic government); Viti Landowners Association


International organization participation:

ACP, ADB, C (suspended), CP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, ISO, ITSO, ITU,
ITUC, MIGA, OPCW, PCA, PIF, Sparteca, SPC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNIDO, UNMIS, UNMIT, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); note - Penijamini R. LOMALOMA
(Charge d'Affaires)
chancery: 2000 M Street, NW, Suite 710, Washington, DC 20036
telephone: [1] (202) 466-8320
FAX: [1] (202) 466-8325


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador C. Steven McGANN
embassy: 31 Loftus Street, Suva
mailing address: P. O. Box 218, Suva
telephone: [679] 331-4466
FAX: [679] 330-0081


Flag description:

light blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant
and the Fijian shield centered on the outer half of the flag; the
shield depicts a yellow lion above a white field quartered by the
cross of Saint George featuring stalks of sugarcane, a palm tree,
bananas, and a white dove


Economy
Fiji



Economy - overview:

Fiji, endowed with forest, mineral, and fish resources, is one of
the most developed of the Pacific island economies, though still
with a large subsistence sector. Sugar exports, remittances from
Fijians working abroad, and a growing tourist industry - with
400,000 to 500,000 tourists annually - are the major sources of
foreign exchange. Fiji's sugar has special access to European Union
markets, but will be harmed by the EU's decision to cut sugar
subsidies. Sugar processing makes up one-third of industrial
activity but is not efficient. Fiji's tourism industry was damaged
by the December 2006 coup and is facing an uncertain recovery time.
The coup has created a difficult business climate. Tourist arrivals
for 2007 are estimated to be down almost 6%, with substantial job
losses in the service sector. In July 2007 the Reserve Bank of Fiji
announced the economy was expected to contract by 3.1% in 2007.
Fiji's current account deficit reached 23% of GDP in 2006. The EU
has suspended all aid until the interim government takes steps
toward new elections. Long-term problems include low investment,
uncertain land ownership rights, and the government's inability to
manage its budget. Overseas remittances from Fijians working in
Kuwait and Iraq have decreased significantly.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$5.079 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$3.409 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

-4.4% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$3,900 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 8.9%
industry: 13.5%
services: 77.6% (2004 est.)


Labor force:

117,500 (2006 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 70%
industry and services: 30% (2001 est.)


Unemployment rate:

7.6% (1999)


Population below poverty line:

25.5% (FY90/91)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $1.363 billion
expenditures: $1.376 billion (2006)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

4.8% (2007)


Central bank discount rate:

9.25% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

9.01% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$1.042 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$1.088 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$1.948 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

sugarcane, coconuts, cassava (tapioca), rice, sweet potatoes,
bananas; cattle, pigs, horses, goats; fish


Industries:

tourism, sugar, clothing, copra, gold, silver, lumber, small cottage
industries


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

928 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

1.016 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 18.5%
hydro: 81.5%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

9,971 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

2,848 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

10,900 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$507 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$1.202 billion f.o.b. (2006)


Exports - commodities:

sugar, garments, gold, timber, fish, molasses, coconut oil


Exports - partners:

US 17.3%, UK 11.3%, Australia 10%, Samoa 5.4%, Tonga 4.7%, NZ 4.5%,
Japan 4.1% (2007)


Imports:

$3.12 billion c.i.f. (2006)


Imports - commodities:

manufactured goods, machinery and transport equipment, petroleum
products, food, chemicals


Imports - partners:

Singapore 30.4%, Australia 21.6%, NZ 17.7%, China 4.5% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$63.96 million (2005)


Debt - external:

$127 million (2004 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$NA


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$586.7 million (2005)


Currency (code):

Fijian dollar (FJD)


Currency code:

FJD


Exchange rates:

Fijian dollars (FJD) per US dollar - NA (2007), 1.7313 (2006), 1.691
(2005), 1.7331 (2004), 1.8958 (2003)


Communications
Fiji



Telephones - main lines in use:

108,400 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

437,000 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: modern local, interisland, and international
(wire/radio integrated) public and special-purpose telephone,
telegraph, and teleprinter facilities; regional radio communications
center
domestic: telephone or radio telephone links to almost all inhabited
islands; most towns and large villages have automatic telephone
exchanges and direct dialing; combined fixed and mobile-cellular
density is about 60 per 100 persons
international: country code - 679; access to important cable links
between US and Canada as well as between NZ and Australia; satellite
earth stations - 2 Inmarsat (Pacific Ocean) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 13, FM 40, shortwave 0 (1998)


Radios:

541,476 (1999)


Television broadcast stations:

NA


Televisions:

88,110 (1999)


Internet country code:

.fj


Internet hosts:

12,592 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

2 (2000)


Internet users:

80,000 (2006)


Transportation
Fiji



Airports:

28 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 3
over 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 25
914 to 1,523 m: 7
under 914 m: 18 (2007)


Railways:

total: 597 km
narrow gauge: 597 km 0.600-m gauge
note: belongs to the government-owned Fiji Sugar Corporation; used
to haul sugarcane during harvest season (May to December) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 3,440 km
paved: 1,692 km
unpaved: 1,748 km (2000)


Waterways:

203 km
note: 122 km navigable by motorized craft and 200-metric-ton barges
(2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 9
by type: passenger 3, passenger/cargo 4, roll on/roll off 2
foreign-owned: 1 (Australia 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Lautoka, Suva


Military
Fiji



Military branches:

Republic of Fiji Military Forces (RFMF): Land Forces, Naval Forces
(2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service; reserve obligation
to age 45 (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 242,567
females age 16-49: 238,556 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 189,282
females age 16-49: 202,350 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 9,077
female: 8,728 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

2.2% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Fiji



Disputes - international:

none


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Fiji is a source country for children trafficked
for the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation and a destination
country for a small number of women from China and India trafficked
for the purposes of forced labor and commercial sexual exploitation
tier rating: Tier 3 - Fiji does not fully comply with the minimum
standards for the elimination of trafficking and is not making
significant efforts to do so; the government has demonstrated no
action to investigate or prosecute traffickers, assist victims, take
steps to reduce the demand for commercial sex acts, or support any
anti-trafficking information or education campaigns; Fiji has not
ratified the 2000 UN TIP Protocol (2008)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Finland

Introduction
Finland



Background:

Finland was a province and then a grand duchy under Sweden from the
12th to the 19th centuries, and an autonomous grand duchy of Russia
after 1809. It won its complete independence in 1917. During World
War II, it was able to successfully defend its freedom and resist
invasions by the Soviet Union - albeit with some loss of territory.
In the subsequent half century, the Finns made a remarkable
transformation from a farm/forest economy to a diversified modern
industrial economy; per capita income is now among the highest in
Western Europe. A member of the European Union since 1995, Finland
was the only Nordic state to join the euro system at its initiation
in January 1999.


Geography
Finland



Location:

Northern Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea, Gulf of Bothnia, and Gulf
of Finland, between Sweden and Russia


Geographic coordinates:

64 00 N, 26 00 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 338,145 sq km
land: 304,473 sq km
water: 33,672 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Montana


Land boundaries:

total: 2,654 km
border countries: Norway 727 km, Sweden 614 km, Russia 1,313 km


Coastline:

1,250 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm (in the Gulf of Finland - 3 nm)
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive fishing zone: 12 nm; extends to continental shelf boundary
with Sweden
continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation


Climate:

cold temperate; potentially subarctic but comparatively mild because
of moderating influence of the North Atlantic Current, Baltic Sea,
and more than 60,000 lakes


Terrain:

mostly low, flat to rolling plains interspersed with lakes and low
hills


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Baltic Sea 0 m
highest point: Haltiatunturi 1,328 m


Natural resources:

timber, iron ore, copper, lead, zinc, chromite, nickel, gold,
silver, limestone


Land use:

arable land: 6.54%
permanent crops: 0.02%
other: 93.44% (2005)


Irrigated land:

640 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

110 cu km (2005)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 2.33 cu km/yr (14%/84%/3%)
per capita: 444 cu m/yr (1999)


Natural hazards:

NA


Environment - current issues:

air pollution from manufacturing and power plants contributing to
acid rain; water pollution from industrial wastes, agricultural
chemicals; habitat loss threatens wildlife populations


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

long boundary with Russia; Helsinki is northernmost national capital
on European continent; population concentrated on small southwestern
coastal plain


People
Finland



Population:

5,244,749 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 16.6% (male 443,738/female 427,875)
15-64 years: 66.8% (male 1,773,232/female 1,731,808)
65 years and over: 16.6% (male 349,826/female 518,270) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 41.8 years
male: 40.3 years
female: 43.4 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.112% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

10.39 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

10 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

0.73 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.04 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.68 male(s)/female
total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 3.5 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 3.81 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 3.17 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 78.82 years
male: 75.31 years
female: 82.46 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.73 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

less than 0.1% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

1,500 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 100 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Finn(s)
adjective: Finnish


Ethnic groups:

Finn 93.4%, Swede 5.6%, Russian 0.5%, Estonian 0.3%, Roma (Gypsy)
0.1%, Sami 0.1% (2006)


Religions:

Lutheran Church of Finland 82.5%, Orthodox Church 1.1%, other
Christian 1.1%, other 0.1%, none 15.1% (2006)


Languages:

Finnish 91.5% (official), Swedish 5.5% (official), other 3% (small
Sami- and Russian-speaking minorities) (2006)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 100%
male: 100%
female: 100% (2000 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 17 years
male: 17 years
female: 18 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

6.4% of GDP (2005)


Government
Finland



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Finland
conventional short form: Finland
local long form: Suomen tasavalta/Republiken Finland
local short form: Suomi/Finland


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Helsinki
geographic coordinates: 60 10 N, 24 56 E
time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

6 provinces (laanit, singular - laani); Aland, Etela-Suomen Laani
(Southern Finland), Ita-Suomen Laani (Eastern Finland), Lansi-Suomen
Laani (Western Finland), Lappi (Lapland), Oulun Laani


Independence:

6 December 1917 (from Russia)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 6 December (1917)


Constitution:

1 March 2000


Legal system:

civil law system based on Swedish law; the president may request the
Supreme Court to review laws; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Tarja HALONEN (since 1 March 2000)
head of government: Prime Minister Matti VANHANEN (since 24 June
2003); Deputy Prime Minister Jyrki KATAINEN (since 19 April 2007)
cabinet: Council of State or Valtioneuvosto appointed by the
president, responsible to parliament
elections: president elected by popular vote for a six-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 15 January 2006
(next to be held in January 2012); the president appoints the prime
minister and deputy prime minister from the majority party or the
majority coalition after parliamentary elections and the parliament
must approve the appointment; Prime Minister VANHANEN reelected 17
April 2007
election results: percent of vote - Tarja HALONEN (SDP) 46.3%, Sauli
NIINISTO (Kok) 24.1%, Matti Vanhanen (Kesk) 18.6%, Heidi HAUTALA
(VIHR) 3.5%; a runoff election between HALONEN and NIINISTO was held
29 January 2006 - HALONEN 51.8%, NIINISTO 48.2%; Matti VANHANEN
reelected prime minister; election results 121-71
note: government coalition - Kesk, KOK, VIHR, and SFP


Legislative branch:

unicameral Parliament or Eduskunta (200 seats; members are elected
by popular vote on a proportional basis to serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 18 March 2007 (next to be held March 2011)
election results: percent of vote by party - Kesk 23.1%, Kok 22.3%,
SDP 21.4%, VAS 8.8%, VIHR 8.5%, KD 4.9%, SFP 4.5%, True Finns 4.1%,
other 3.4%; seats by party - Kesk 51, Kok 50, SDP 45, VAS 17, VIHR
15, SFP 9, KD 7, True Finns 5, other 1


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court or Korkein Oikeus (judges appointed by the president)


Political parties and leaders:

Center Party or Kesk [Matti VANHANEN]; Christian Democrats or KD
[Paivi RASANEN]; Green Party or VIHR [Tarja CRONBERG]; Left Alliance
or VAS [Martti KORHONEN] (composed of People's Democratic League and
Democratic Alternative); National Coalition (conservative) Party or
Kok [Jyrki KATAINEN]; Social Democratic Party or SDP [Eero
HEINALUOMA]; Swedish People's Party or SFP [Stefan WALLIN]; True
Finns [Timo SOINI]


International organization participation:

ADB (nonregional members), AfDB (nonregional members), Arctic
Council, Australia Group, BIS, CBSS, CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EMU,
ESA, EU, FAO, G-9, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA,
IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM (guest), NC, NEA, NIB, NSG, OAS
(observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, Paris Club, PCA, PFP, Schengen
Convention, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNMOGIP,
UNTSO, UPU, WCO, WEU (observer), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Pekka LINTU
chancery: 3301 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 298-5800
FAX: [1] (202) 298-6030
consulate(s) general: Los Angeles, New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Barbara BARRETT
embassy: Itainen Puistotie 14B, 00140 Helsinki
mailing address: APO AE 09723
telephone: [358] (9) 616250
FAX: [358] (9) 6162 5800


Flag description:

white with a blue cross extending to the edges of the flag; the
vertical part of the cross is shifted to the hoist side in the style
of the Dannebrog (Danish flag)


Economy
Finland



Economy - overview:

Finland has a highly industrialized, largely free-market economy
with per capita output roughly that of the UK, France, Germany, and
Italy. Its key economic sector is manufacturing - principally the
wood, metals, engineering, telecommunications, and electronics
industries. Trade is important; exports equal nearly two-fifths of
GDP. Finland excels in high-tech exports, e.g., mobile phones.
Except for timber and several minerals, Finland depends on imports
of raw materials, energy, and some components for manufactured
goods. Because of the climate, agricultural development is limited
to maintaining self-sufficiency in basic products. Forestry, an
important export earner, provides a secondary occupation for the
rural population. High unemployment remains a persistent problem. In
2007 Russia announced plans to impose high tariffs on raw timber
exported to Finland. The Finnish pulp and paper industry will be
threatened if these duties are put into place in 2008 and 2009, and
the matter is now being handled by the European Union.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$188.4 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$245 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

4.5% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$36,000 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 3.1%
industry: 32.6%
services: 64.3% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

2.675 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture and forestry 4.4%, industry 18.6%, construction 6%,
commerce 16.3%, finance, insurance, and business services 13.9%,
transport and communications 7.6%, public services 33.2% (2004)


Unemployment rate:

6.9% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 4%
highest 10%: 22.6% (2000)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

26 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

20.3% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $62.02 billion
expenditures: $58.16 billion (2007)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

35.9% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.5% (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

5.62% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

NA
note: see entry for the European Union for money supply in the Euro
Area; the European Central Bank (ECB) controls monetary policy for
the 15 members of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU); individual
members of the EMU do not control the quantity of money and quasi
money circulating within their own borders


Stock of quasi money:

NA


Stock of domestic credit:

$240.7 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

barley, wheat, sugar beets, potatoes; dairy cattle; fish


Industries:

metals and metal products, electronics, machinery and scientific
instruments, shipbuilding, pulp and paper, foodstuffs, chemicals,
textiles, clothing


Industrial production growth rate:

8.1% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

77.02 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

86.04 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

2.86 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

15.42 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 39%
hydro: 18.7%
nuclear: 30.4%
other: 11.8% (2001)


Oil - production:

8,951 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

228,200 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

126,300 bbl/day (January-September 2007 est.)


Oil - imports:

281,300 bbl/day (January-September 2007 est.)


Oil - proved reserves:

NA bbl


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

4.581 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

4.576 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006)


Current account balance:

$11.4 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$89.91 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, chemicals, metals; timber, paper, pulp


Exports - partners:

Germany 10.9%, Sweden 10.7%, Russia 10.3%, US 6.4%, UK 5.8%,
Netherlands 5.6% (2007)


Imports:

$78.05 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

foodstuffs, petroleum and petroleum products, chemicals, transport
equipment, iron and steel, machinery, textile yarn and fabrics,
grains


Imports - partners:

Germany 15.8%, Russia 14%, Sweden 13.7%, Netherlands 6.8%, China
5.5%, UK 4.9% (2007)


Economic aid - donor:

ODA, $1.023 billion (2007)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$8.385 billion (2007)


Debt - external:

$271.2 billion (30 June 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$85.24 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$113 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$1.095 trillion (January 2008)


Currency (code):

euro (EUR)


Currency code:

EUR


Exchange rates:

euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006), 0.8041
(2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)


Communications
Finland



Telephones - main lines in use:

1.74 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

6.08 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: modern system with excellent service
domestic: digital fiber-optic fixed-line network and an extensive
cellular network provide domestic needs
international: country code - 358; submarine cables provide links to
Estonia and Sweden; satellite earth stations - access to Intelsat
transmission service via a Swedish satellite earth station, 1
Inmarsat (Atlantic and Indian Ocean regions); note - Finland shares
the Inmarsat earth station with the other Nordic countries (Denmark,
Iceland, Norway, and Sweden)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 2, FM 186, shortwave 1 (1998)


Radios:

7.7 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

120 (plus 431 repeaters) (1999); note - On 1 September 2007, Finland
became one of the first countries in the world to broadcast all
television signals digitally


Televisions:

3.2 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.fi; note - Aland Islands assigned .ax


Internet hosts:

3.877 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

3 (2002)


Internet users:

3.6 million (2007)


Transportation
Finland



Airports:

148 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 76
over 3,047 m: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 27
1,524 to 2,437 m: 10
914 to 1,523 m: 22
under 914 m: 15 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 72
914 to 1,523 m: 4
under 914 m: 68 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 694 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 5,741 km
broad gauge: 5,741 km 1.524-m gauge (2,619 km electrified) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 78,821 km
paved: 50,854 km (includes 700 km of expressways)
unpaved: 27,967 km (2008)


Waterways:

7,842 km
note: includes Saimaa Canal system of 3,577 km; southern part leased
from Russia (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 98
by type: bulk carrier 3, cargo 28, carrier 1, chemical tanker 6,
container 3, passenger 5, passenger/cargo 18, petroleum tanker 5,
roll on/roll off 27, vehicle carrier 2
foreign-owned: 8 (Estonia 2, Germany 1, Norway 3, Sweden 2)
registered in other countries: 47 (Bahamas 9, Germany 4, Gibraltar
3, Netherlands 14, Norway 1, Panama 2, Saint Kitts and Nevis 1,
Sweden 12, UK 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Hamina, Helsinki, Kokkola, Kotka, Naantali, Pori, Raahe, Rauma, Turku


Military
Finland



Military branches:

Finnish Defense Forces (FDF): Army, Navy (includes Coastal Defense
Forces), Air Force (Suomen Ilmavoimat) (2007)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for male voluntary and compulsory national military
and nonmilitary service; service obligation 6-12 months (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,169,910
females age 16-49: 1,121,187 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 965,131
females age 16-49: 923,224 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 34,152
female: 32,870 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

2% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Finland



Disputes - international:

various groups in Finland advocate restoration of Karelia and other
areas ceded to the Soviet Union, but the Finnish Government asserts
no territorial demands



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@France

Introduction
France



Background:

Although ultimately a victor in World Wars I and II, France suffered
extensive losses in its empire, wealth, manpower, and rank as a
dominant nation-state. Nevertheless, France today is one of the most
modern countries in the world and is a leader among European
nations. Since 1958, it has constructed a hybrid
presidential-parliamentary governing system resistant to the
instabilities experienced in earlier more purely parliamentary
administrations. In recent years, its reconciliation and cooperation
with Germany have proved central to the economic integration of
Europe, including the introduction of a common exchange currency,
the euro, in January 1999. At present, France is at the forefront of
efforts to develop the EU's military capabilities to supplement
progress toward an EU foreign policy.


Geography
France



Location:

metropolitan France: Western Europe, bordering the Bay of Biscay and
English Channel, between Belgium and Spain, southeast of the UK;
bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between Italy and Spain
French Guiana: Northern South America, bordering the North Atlantic
Ocean, between Brazil and Suriname
Guadeloupe: Caribbean, islands between the Caribbean Sea and the
North Atlantic Ocean, southeast of Puerto Rico
Martinique: Caribbean, island between the Caribbean Sea and North
Atlantic Ocean, north of Trinidad and Tobago
Reunion: Southern Africa, island in the Indian Ocean, east of
Madagascar


Geographic coordinates:

metropolitan France: 46 00 N, 2 00 E
French Guiana: 4 00 N, 53 00 W
Guadeloupe: 16 15 N, 61 35 W
Martinique: 14 40 N, 61 00 W
Reunion: 21 06 S, 55 36 E


Map references:

metropolitan France: Europe
French Guiana: South America
Guadeloupe: Central America and the Caribbean
Martinique: Central America and the Caribbean
Reunion: World


Area:

total: 643,427 sq km; 547,030 sq km (metropolitan France)
land: 640,053 sq km; 545,630 sq km (metropolitan France)
water: 3,374 sq km; 1,400 sq km (metropolitan France)
note: the first numbers include the overseas regions of French
Guiana, Guadeloupe, Martinique, and Reunion


Area - comparative:

slightly less than the size of Texas


Land boundaries:

metropolitan France - total: 2,889 km
border countries: Andorra 56.6 km, Belgium 620 km, Germany 451 km,
Italy 488 km, Luxembourg 73 km, Monaco 4.4 km, Spain 623 km,
Switzerland 573 km
French Guiana - total: 1,183 km
border countries: Brazil 673 km, Suriname 510 km


Coastline:

total: 4,668 km
metropolitan France: 3,427 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm (does not apply to the Mediterranean)
continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation


Climate:

metropolitan France: generally cool winters and mild summers, but
mild winters and hot summers along the Mediterranean; occasional
strong, cold, dry, north-to-northwesterly wind known as mistral
French Guiana: tropical; hot, humid; little seasonal temperature
variation
Guadeloupe and Martinique: subtropical tempered by trade winds;
moderately high humidity; rainy season (June to October); vulnerable
to devastating cyclones (hurricanes) every eight years on average
Reunion: tropical, but temperature moderates with elevation; cool
and dry (May to November), hot and rainy (November to April)


Terrain:

metropolitan France: mostly flat plains or gently rolling hills in
north and west; remainder is mountainous, especially Pyrenees in
south, Alps in east
French Guiana: low-lying coastal plains rising to hills and small
mountains
Guadeloupe: Basse-Terre is volcanic in origin with interior
mountains; Grande-Terre is low limestone formation; most of the
seven other islands are volcanic in origin
Martinique: mountainous with indented coastline; dormant volcano
Reunion: mostly rugged and mountainous; fertile lowlands along coast


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Rhone River delta -2 m
highest point: Mont Blanc 4,807 m


Natural resources:

metropolitan France: coal, iron ore, bauxite, zinc, uranium,
antimony, arsenic, potash, feldspar, fluorspar, gypsum, timber, fish
French Guiana: gold deposits, petroleum, kaolin, niobium, tantalum,
clay


Land use:

arable land: 33.46%
permanent crops: 2.03%
other: 64.51%
note: French Guiana - arable land 0.13%, permanent crops 0.04%,
other 99.83% (90% forest, 10% other); Guadeloupe - arable land
11.70%, permanent crops 2.92%, other 85.38%; Martinique - arable
land 9.09%, permanent crops 10.0%, other 80.91%; Reunion - arable
land 13.94%, permanent crops 1.59%, other 84.47% (2005)


Irrigated land:

total: 26,190 sq km;
metropolitan France: 26,000 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

189 cu km (2005)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 33.16 cu km/yr (16%/74%/10%)
per capita: 548 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

metropolitan France: flooding; avalanches; midwinter windstorms;
drought; forest fires in south near the Mediterranean
overseas departments: hurricanes (cyclones), flooding, volcanic
activity (Guadeloupe, Martinique, Reunion)


Environment - current issues:

some forest damage from acid rain; air pollution from industrial and
vehicle emissions; water pollution from urban wastes, agricultural
runoff


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life
Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical
Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

largest West European nation


People
France



Population:

total: 64,057,792
note: 62,150,775 in metropolitan France (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 18.6% (male 6,091,571/female 5,803,127)
15-64 years: 65.2% (male 20,884,919/female 20,849,988)
65 years and over: 16.3% (male 4,335,996/female 6,092,189) (2008
est.)


Median age:

total: 39.2 years
male: 37.7 years
female: 40.7 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.574% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

12.73 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

8.48 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

1.48 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.71 male(s)/female
total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 3.36 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 3.69 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 3.02 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 80.87 years
male: 77.68 years
female: 84.23 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.98 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.4% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

120,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 1,000 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Frenchman(men), Frenchwoman(women)
adjective: French


Ethnic groups:

Celtic and Latin with Teutonic, Slavic, North African, Indochinese,
Basque minorities
overseas departments: black, white, mulatto, East Indian, Chinese,
Amerindian


Religions:

Roman Catholic 83%-88%, Protestant 2%, Jewish 1%, Muslim 5%-10%,
unaffiliated 4%
overseas departments: Roman Catholic, Protestant, Hindu, Muslim,
Buddhist, pagan


Languages:

French 100%, rapidly declining regional dialects and languages
(Provencal, Breton, Alsatian, Corsican, Catalan, Basque, Flemish)
overseas departments: French, Creole patois


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99%
male: 99%
female: 99% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 16 years
male: 16 years
female: 17 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

5.7% of GDP (2005)


Government
France



Country name:

conventional long form: French Republic
conventional short form: France
local long form: Republique francaise
local short form: France


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Paris
geographic coordinates: 48 52 N, 2 20 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October
note: applies to metropolitan France only, not to its overseas
departments, collectivities, or territories


Administrative divisions:

26 regions (regions, singular - region); Alsace, Aquitaine,
Auvergne, Basse-Normandie (Lower Normandy), Bourgogne (Burgundy),
Bretagne (Brittany), Centre, Champagne-Ardenne, Corse (Corsica),
Franche-Comte, Guadeloupe, Guyane (French Guiana), Haute-Normandie
(Upper Normandy), Ile-de-France, Languedoc-Roussillon, Limousin,
Lorraine, Martinique, Midi-Pyrenees, Nord-Pas-de-Calais, Pays de la
Loire, Picardie, Poitou-Charentes, Provence-Alpes-Cote d'Azur,
Reunion, Rhone-Alpes
note: France is divided into 22 metropolitan regions (including the
"territorial collectivity" of Corse or Corsica) and 4 overseas
regions (including French Guiana, Guadeloupe, Martinique, and
Reunion) and is subdivided into 96 metropolitan departments and 4
overseas departments (which are the same as the overseas regions)


Dependent areas:

Clipperton Island, French Polynesia, French Southern and Antarctic
Lands, Mayotte, New Caledonia, Saint Barthelemy, Saint Martin,
Wallis and Futuna
note: the US does not recognize claims to Antarctica; New Caledonia
has been considered a "sui generis" collectivity of France since
1999, a unique status falling between that of an independent country
and a French overseas department


Independence:

486 (Frankish tribes unified); 843 (Western Francia established from
the division of the Carolingian Empire)


National holiday:

Fete de la Federation, 14 July (1790); note - although often
incorrectly referred to as Bastille Day, the celebration actually
commemorates the holiday held on the first anniversary of the
storming of the Bastille (on 14 July 1789) and the establishment of
a constitutional monarchy; other names for the holiday are Fete
Nationale (National Holiday) and quatorze juillet (14th of July)


Constitution:

adopted by referendum 28 September 1958, effective 4 October 1958
note: amended concerning election of president in 1962; amended to
comply with provisions of 1992 EC Maastricht Treaty, 1997 Amsterdam
Treaty, 2003 Treaty of Nice; amended to tighten immigration laws in
1993; amended in 2000 to change the seven-year presidential term to
a five-year term; amended in 2005 to make the EU constitutional
treaty compatible with the Constitution of France and to ensure that
the decision to ratify EU accession treaties would be made by
referendum


Legal system:

civil law system with indigenous concepts; review of administrative
but not legislative acts; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Nicolas SARKOZY (since 16 May 2007)
head of government: Prime Minister Francois FILLON (since 17 May
2007)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president at the
suggestion of the prime minister
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(changed from seven-year term in October 2000); election last held
22 April and 6 May 2007 (next to be held spring 2012); prime
minister nominated by the National Assembly majority and appointed
by the president
election results: Nicolas SARKOZY wins the election; First Round:
percent of vote - Nicolas SARKOZY 31.18%, Segolene ROYAL 25.87%,
Francois BAYROU 18.57%, Jean-Marie LE PEN 10.44%, others 13.94%;
Second Round: SARKOZY 53.1% and ROYAL 46.9%


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament or Parlement consists of the Senate or Senat
(331 seats, 305 for metropolitan France, 9 for overseas departments,
5 for dependencies, and 12 for French nationals abroad; members are
indirectly elected by an electoral college to serve six-year terms;
one third elected every three years); note - between 2006 and 2011,
15 new seats will be added to the Senate for a total of 348 seats -
326 for metropolitan France and overseas departments, 2 for New
Caledonia, 2 for Mayotte, 1 for Saint-Pierre and Miquelon, 1 for
Saint-Barthelemy, 1 for Saint-Martin, 3 for overseas territories,
and 12 for French nationals abroad; starting in 2008, members will
be indirectly elected by an electoral college to serve six-year
terms, with one-half elected every three years; and the National
Assembly or Assemblee Nationale (577 seats, 555 for metropolitan
France, 15 for overseas departments, 7 for dependencies; members are
elected by popular vote under a single-member majority system to
serve five-year terms)
elections: Senate - last held 26 September 2004 (next to be held in
September 2008); National Assembly - last held 10 and 17 June 2007
(next to be held in June 2012)
election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - UMP 156, PS 97, UDF (now MoDem) 33, PCF 23, RDSE 15, other
7; National Assembly - percent of vote by party - UMP 46.37%, PS
42.25%, miscellaneous left wing parties 2.47%, PCF 2.28%, NC 2.12%,
PRG 1.65%, miscellaneous right wing parties 1.17%, the Greens 0.45,
other 1.24%; seats by party - UMP 313, PS 186, NC 22, miscellaneous
left wing parties 15, PCF 15, miscellaneous right wing parties 9,
PRG 7, the Greens 4, other 6


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court of Appeals or Cour de Cassation (judges are appointed
by the president from nominations of the High Council of the
Judiciary); Constitutional Council or Conseil Constitutionnel (three
members appointed by the president, three appointed by the president
of the National Assembly, and three appointed by the president of
the Senate); Council of State or Conseil d'Etat


Political parties and leaders:

Democratic Movement or MoDem [Francois BAYROU] (previously Union for
French Democracy or UDF); Democratic and Social European Rally or
RDSE [Pierre LAFFITTE] (mainly Radical Republican and Socialist
Parties, and PRG); French Communist Party or PCF [Marie-George
BUFFET]; Greens [Cecile DUFLOT]; Left Radical Party or PRG
[Jean-Michel BAYLET] (previously Radical Socialist Party or PRS and
the Left Radical Movement or MRG); Movement for France or MPF
[Philippe DE VILLIERS]; National Front or FN [Jean-Marie LE PEN];
New Center or NC [Herve MORIN]; Rally for France or RPF [Charles
PASQUA]; Republican and Citizen Movement or MRC [Jean Pierre
CHEVENEMENT and Georges SARRE]; Socialist Party or PS [Francois
HOLLANDE]; Union for a Popular Movement or UMP [Patrick DEVEDJIAN,
Jean-Claude GAUDIN, Jean-Pierre RAFFARIN, Pierre MEHAIGNERIE];
Radical Party [Jean-Louis BORLOO]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Confederation Francaise Democratique du Travail or CFDT,
left-leaning labor union with approximately 803,000 members;
Confederation Generale des Cadres or CGC, independent white-collar
union with 196,000 members; Confederation Generale du Travail or
CGT, historically communist labor union with approximately 700,000
members; Confederation Generale du Travail - Force Ouvriere or FO,
independent labor union with an estimated 300,000 members; Mouvement
des Entreprises de France or MEDEF, employers' union with 750,000
companies as members (claimed)
French Guiana: conservationists; gold mining pressure groups;
hunting pressure groups
Guadeloupe: Christian Movement for the Liberation of Guadeloupe or
KLPG; General Federation of Guadeloupe Workers or CGT-G; General
Union of Guadeloupe Workers or UGTG; Movement for an Independent
Guadeloupe or MPGI; The Socialist Renewal Movement
Martinique: Caribbean Revolutionary Alliance or ARC; Central Union
for Martinique Workers or CSTM; Frantz Fanon Circle; League of
Workers and Peasants; Proletarian Action Group or GAP
Reunion: NA


International organization participation:

ADB (nonregional members), AfDB (nonregional members), Arctic
Council (observer), Australia Group, BDEAC, BIS, BSEC (observer),
CBSS (observer), CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EMU, ESA, EU, FAO, FZ,
G-5, G-7, G-8, G-10, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA,
IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, InOC, Interpol,
IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURCAT, MINURSO,
MINUSTAH, MONUC, NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OIF, OPCW,
OSCE, Paris Club, PCA, PIF (partner), Schengen Convention, SECI
(observer), SPC, UN, UN Security Council, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, Union Latina, UNITAR, UNMIL, UNOCI, UNOMIG,
UNRWA, UNTSO, UNWTO, UPU, WADB (nonregional), WCL, WCO, WEU, WFTU,
WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Pierre VIMONT
chancery: 4101 Reservoir Road NW, Washington, DC 20007
telephone: [1] (202) 944-6000
FAX: [1] (202) 944-6166
consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los
Angeles, Miami, New Orleans, New York, San Francisco, Washington, DC


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Craig R. STAPLETON
embassy: 2 Avenue Gabriel, 75382 Paris Cedex 08
mailing address: PSC 116, APO AE 09777
telephone: [33] (1) 43-12-22-22
FAX: [33] (1) 42 66 97 83
consulate(s) general: Marseille, Strasbourg


Flag description:

three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side), white, and red;
known as the "Le drapeau tricolore" (French Tricolor), the origin of
the flag dates to 1790 and the French Revolution; the design and/or
colors are similar to a number of other flags, including those of
Belgium, Chad, Ireland, Cote d'Ivoire, Luxembourg, and Netherlands;
the official flag for all French dependent areas


Economy
France



Economy - overview:

France is in the midst of transition from a well-to-do modern
economy that has featured extensive government ownership and
intervention to one that relies more on market mechanisms. The
government has partially or fully privatized many large companies,
banks, and insurers, and has ceded stakes in such leading firms as
Air France, France Telecom, Renault, and Thales. It maintains a
strong presence in some sectors, particularly power, public
transport, and defense industries. The telecommunications sector is
gradually being opened to competition. France's leaders remain
committed to a capitalism in which they maintain social equity by
means of laws, tax policies, and social spending that reduce income
disparity and the impact of free markets on public health and
welfare. Widespread opposition to labor reform has in recent years
hampered the government's ability to revitalize the economy. In
2007, the government launched divisive labor reform efforts that
will continue into 2008. France's tax burden remains one of the
highest in Europe (nearly 50% of GDP in 2005). France brought the
budget deficit within the eurozone's 3%-of-GDP limit for the first
time in 2007 and has reduced unemployment to roughly 8%. With at
least 75 million foreign tourists per year, France is the most
visited country in the world and maintains the third largest income
in the world from tourism.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$2.075 trillion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$2.56 trillion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

2.1% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$32,600 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 2.2%
industry: 20.6%
services: 77.2% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

27.91 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 4.1%
industry: 24.4%
services: 71.5% (1999)


Unemployment rate:

7.9% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

6.2% (2004)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 3%
highest 10%: 24.8% (2004)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

28 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

21.5% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $1.287 trillion
expenditures: $1.356 trillion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

63.9% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

1.5% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

NA


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

7.28% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

NA
note: see entry for the European Union for money supply in the Euro
Area; the European Central Bank (ECB) controls monetary policy for
the 15 members of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU); individual
members of the EMU do not control the quantity of money and quasi
money circulating within their own borders


Stock of quasi money:

NA


Stock of domestic credit:

$4.105 trillion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

wheat, cereals, sugar beets, potatoes, wine grapes; beef, dairy
products; fish


Industries:

machinery, chemicals, automobiles, metallurgy, aircraft,
electronics; textiles, food processing; tourism


Industrial production growth rate:

1.8% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

537.9 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

447.3 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

67.6 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

10.78 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 8.2%
hydro: 14%
nuclear: 77.1%
other: 0.7% (2001)


Oil - production:

69,680 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

1.95 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

584,700 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

2.465 million bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

119.8 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

953 million cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

42.69 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

966 million cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

42.9 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

7.277 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$31.25 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$546 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

machinery and transportation equipment, aircraft, plastics,
chemicals, pharmaceutical products, iron and steel, beverages


Exports - partners:

Germany 14.9%, Spain 9.3%, Italy 8.9%, UK 8.1%, Belgium 7.3%, US
6.1%, Netherlands 4.1% (2007)


Imports:

$600.9 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, vehicles, crude oil, aircraft, plastics,
chemicals


Imports - partners:

Germany 18.9%, Belgium 11.4%, Italy 8.4%, Spain 7.1%, Netherlands
7%, UK 5.6%, US 4.4%, China 4% (2007)


Economic aid - donor:

ODA, $10.6 billion (2006)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$115.7 billion (2006 est.)


Debt - external:

$4.396 trillion (30 June 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$942.3 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$1.307 trillion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$1.71 trillion (2005)


Currency (code):

euro (EUR)


Currency code:

EUR


Exchange rates:

euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006), 0.8041
(2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)


Communications
France



Telephones - main lines in use:

35.533 million; 34.8 million (metropolitan France) (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

56.719 million; 55.358 million (metropolitan France) (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: highly developed
domestic: extensive cable and microwave radio relay; extensive
introduction of fiber-optic cable; domestic satellite system
international: country code - 33; numerous submarine cables provide
links throughout Europe, Asia, Australia, the Middle East, and US;
satellite earth stations - more than 3 (2 Intelsat (with total of 5
antennas - 2 for Indian Ocean and 3 for Atlantic Ocean), NA
Eutelsat, 1 Inmarsat - Atlantic Ocean region); HF radiotelephone
communications with more than 20 countries
overseas departments: country codes: French Guiana - 594; Guadeloupe
- 590; Martinique - 596; Reunion - 262


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 41, FM about 3,500 (this figure is an approximation and includes
many repeaters), shortwave 2 (1998)


Radios:

55.3 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

584 (plus 9,676 repeaters) (1995)


Televisions:

34.8 million (1997)


Internet country code:

metropolitan France - .fr; French Guiana - .gf; Guadeloupe - .gp;
Martinique - .mq; Reunion - .re


Internet hosts:

14.256 million; 14,256,000 (metropolitan France) (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

62 (2000)


Internet users:

31.295 million; 30.838 million (metropolitan France) (2007)


Transportation
France



Airports:

476 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 292
over 3,047 m: 14
2,438 to 3,047 m: 27
1,524 to 2,437 m: 97
914 to 1,523 m: 80
under 914 m: 74 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 184
1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
914 to 1,523 m: 72
under 914 m: 108 (2007)


Heliports:

3 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 14,665 km; oil 3,032 km; refined products 4,947 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 29,370 km
standard gauge: 29,203 km 1.435-m gauge (14,778 km electrified)
narrow gauge: 167 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 951,500 km
paved: 951,500 km (metropolitan France; includes 10,950 km of
expressways)
note: there are another 5,100 km of roadways in overseas departments
(2006)


Waterways:

metropolitan France: 8,500 km (1,686 km accessible to craft of 3,000
metric tons)
French Guiana: 3,760 km (460 km navigable by small oceangoing
vessels and coastal and river steamers, 3,300 km by native craft)
(2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 138
by type: bulk carrier 2, cargo 1, chemical tanker 32, container 25,
liquefied gas 12, passenger 3, passenger/cargo 33, petroleum tanker
23, roll on/roll off 7
foreign-owned: 38 (Belgium 6, China 5, Denmark 2, Germany 1, Italy
2, Japan 1, NZ 1, Norway 5, Saudi Arabia 1, Singapore 2, Sweden 9,
Switzerland 1, Switzerland 2)
registered in other countries: 127 (Antigua and Barbuda 1, Australia
1, Bahamas 30, Belgium 2, Bermuda 1, Hong Kong 1, Indonesia 1, Isle
of Man 1, Italy 2, Liberia 5, Luxembourg 17, Malta 5, Morocco 14,
Netherlands 1, Norway 3, Panama 5, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
6, Singapore 1, Taiwan 1, UK 23, Wallis and Futuna 6) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Bordeaux, Calais, Dunkerque, Le Havre, Marseille, Nantes, Paris,
Rouen, Strasbourg


Military
France



Military branches:

Army (Armee de Terre; includes Marines, Foreign Legion, Army Light
Aviation), Navy (Marine Nationale, includes Naval Air), Air Force
(Armee de l'Air, includes Air Defense), National Gendarmerie (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

17-40 years of age for male or female voluntary military service);
no conscription; 12-month service obligation; women serve in
noncombat military posts (2005)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 14,646,427
females age 16-49: 14,379,630 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 12,110,718
females age 16-49: 11,849,988 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 401,379
female: 382,409 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

2.6% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
France



Disputes - international:

Madagascar claims the French territories of Bassas da India, Europa
Island, Glorioso Islands, and Juan de Nova Island; Comoros claims
Mayotte; Mauritius claims Tromelin Island; territorial dispute
between Suriname and the French overseas department of French
Guiana; France asserts a territorial claim in Antarctica (Adelie
Land); France and Vanuatu claim Matthew and Hunter Islands, east of
New Caledonia


Illicit drugs:

metropolitan France: transshipment point for South American cocaine,
Southwest Asian heroin, and European synthetics
French Guiana: small amount of marijuana grown for local
consumption; minor transshipment point to Europe
Martinique: transshipment point for cocaine and marijuana bound for
the US and Europe



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@French Polynesia

Introduction
French Polynesia



Background:

The French annexed various Polynesian island groups during the 19th
century. In September 1995, France stirred up widespread protests by
resuming nuclear testing on the Mururoa atoll after a three-year
moratorium. The tests were suspended in January 1996. In recent
years, French Polynesia's autonomy has been considerably expanded.


Geography
French Polynesia



Location:

Oceania, archipelagoes in the South Pacific Ocean about half way
between South America and Australia


Geographic coordinates:

15 00 S, 140 00 W


Map references:

Oceania


Area:

total: 4,167 sq km (118 islands and atolls)
land: 3,660 sq km
water: 507 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly less than one-third the size of Connecticut


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

2,525 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical, but moderate


Terrain:

mixture of rugged high islands and low islands with reefs


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: Mont Orohena 2,241 m


Natural resources:

timber, fish, cobalt, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 0.75%
permanent crops: 5.5%
other: 93.75% (2005)


Irrigated land:

10 sq km (2003)


Natural hazards:

occasional cyclonic storms in January


Environment - current issues:

NA


Geography - note:

includes five archipelagoes (four volcanic, one coral); Makatea in
French Polynesia is one of the three great phosphate rock islands in
the Pacific Ocean - the others are Banaba (Ocean Island) in Kiribati
and Nauru


People
French Polynesia



Population:

283,019 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 24.8% (male 35,903/female 34,364)
15-64 years: 68.6% (male 100,700/female 93,492)
65 years and over: 6.6% (male 9,374/female 9,186) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 28.7 years
male: 29 years
female: 28.4 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.425% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

16.16 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

4.67 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

2.77 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.08 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 1.02 male(s)/female
total population: 1.06 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 7.7 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 8.84 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 6.5 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 76.51 years
male: 74.07 years
female: 79.08 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.95 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: French Polynesian(s)
adjective: French Polynesian


Ethnic groups:

Polynesian 78%, Chinese 12%, local French 6%, metropolitan French 4%


Religions:

Protestant 54%, Roman Catholic 30%, other 10%, no religion 6%


Languages:

French 61.1% (official), Polynesian 31.4% (official), Asian
languages 1.2%, other 0.3%, unspecified 6% (2002 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 14 and over can read and write
total population: 98%
male: 98%
female: 98% (1977 est.)


Education expenditures:

( )


Government
French Polynesia



Country name:

conventional long form: Overseas Lands of French Polynesia
conventional short form: French Polynesia
local long form: Pays d'outre-mer de la Polynesie Francaise
local short form: Polynesie Francaise
former: French Colony of Oceania


Dependency status:

overseas lands of France; overseas territory of France from 1946-2004


Government type:

NA


Capital:

name: Papeete
geographic coordinates: 17 32 S, 149 34 W
time difference: UTC-10 (5 hours behind Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

none (overseas lands of France); there are no first-order
administrative divisions as defined by the US Government, but there
are five archipelagic divisions named Archipel des Marquises,
Archipel des Tuamotu, Archipel des Tubuai, Iles du Vent, Iles
Sous-le-Vent


Independence:

none (overseas lands of France)


National holiday:

Bastille Day, 14 July (1789)


Constitution:

4 October 1958 (French Constitution)


Legal system:

the laws of France, where applicable, apply


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Nicolas SARKOZY (since 16 May 2007),
represented by High Commissioner of the Republic Adolphe COLRAT
(since 7 July 2008)
head of government: President of French Polynesia Gaston TONG SANG
(since 15 April 2008); President of the Territorial Assembly Antony
GEROS (since 9 May 2004)
cabinet: Council of Ministers; president submits a list of members
of the Territorial Assembly for approval by them to serve as
ministers
elections: French president elected by popular vote for a five-year
term; high commissioner appointed by the French president on the
advice of the French Ministry of Interior; president of the
territorial government and the president of the Territorial Assembly
are elected by the members of the assembly for five-year terms (no
term limits)


Legislative branch:

unicameral Territorial Assembly or Assemblee Territoriale (57 seats;
members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held 27 January 2008 (first round) and 10 February
2008 (second round) (next to be held NA 2013)
election results: percent of vote by party - Our Home alliance
45.2%, Union for Democracy alliance 37.2%, Popular Rally (Tahoeraa
Huiraatira) 17.2% other 0.5%; seats by party - Our Home alliance 27,
Union for Democracy alliance 20, Popular Rally 10
note: one seat was elected to the French Senate on 27 September 1998
(next to be held in September 2007); results - percent of vote by
party - NA; seats by party - NA; two seats were elected to the
French National Assembly on 9 June-16 June 2002 (next to be held in
2007); results - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
UMP/RPR 1, UMP 1


Judicial branch:

Court of Appeal or Cour d'Appel; Court of the First Instance or
Tribunal de Premiere Instance; Court of Administrative Law or
Tribunal Administratif


Political parties and leaders:

Alliance for a New Democracy or ADN [Nicole BOUTEAU and Philip
SCHYLE](includes the parties The New Star and This Country is
Yours); Independent Front for the Liberation of Polynesia (Tavini
Huiraatira) [Oscar TEMARU]; New Fatherland Party (Ai'a Api) [Emile
VERNAUDON]; Our Home alliance; People's Rally for the Republic of
Polynesia or RPR (Tahoeraa Huiraatira) [Gaston FLOSSE]; Union for
Democracy alliance or UPD [Oscar TEMARU]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

FZ, ITUC, PIF (associate member), SPC, UPU, WMO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (overseas lands of France)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (overseas lands of France)


Flag description:

two narrow red horizontal bands encase a wide white band; centered
on the white band is a disk with a blue and white wave pattern on
the lower half and a gold and white ray pattern on the upper half; a
stylized red, blue, and white ship rides on the wave pattern; the
French flag is used for official occasions


Government - note:

under certain acts of France, French Polynesia has acquired autonomy
in all areas except those relating to police and justice, monetary
policy, tertiary education, immigration, and defense and foreign
affairs; the duties of its president are fashioned after those of
the French prime minister


Economy
French Polynesia



Economy - overview:

Since 1962, when France stationed military personnel in the region,
French Polynesia has changed from a subsistence agricultural economy
to one in which a high proportion of the work force is either
employed by the military or supports the tourist industry. With the
halt of French nuclear testing in 1996, the military contribution to
the economy fell sharply. Tourism accounts for about one-fourth of
GDP and is a primary source of hard currency earnings. Other sources
of income are pearl farming and deep-sea commercial fishing. The
small manufacturing sector primarily processes agricultural
products. The territory benefits substantially from development
agreements with France aimed principally at creating new businesses
and strengthening social services.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$4.58 billion (2003 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$3.8 billion (2002)


GDP - real growth rate:

5.1% (2002)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$17,500 (2003 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 3.1%
industry: 19%
services: 77.8% (2005)


Labor force:

65,930 (December 2005)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 13%
industry: 19%
services: 68% (2002)


Unemployment rate:

11.7% (2005)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $865 million
expenditures: $644.1 million (1999)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

1.1% (2006 est.)


Agriculture - products:

fish; coconuts, vanilla, vegetables, fruits, coffee; poultry, beef,
dairy products


Industries:

tourism, pearls, agricultural processing, handicrafts, phosphates


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

475 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

441.8 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 60.7%
hydro: 39.3%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

6,082 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

6,271 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Exports:

$211 million f.o.b. (2005 est.)


Exports - commodities:

cultured pearls, coconut products, mother-of-pearl, vanilla, shark
meat


Exports - partners:

France 46.3%, Japan 20.8%, Niger 12.8%, US 12.5% (2006)


Imports:

$1.706 billion f.o.b. (2005 est.)


Imports - commodities:

fuels, foodstuffs, machinery and equipment


Imports - partners:

France 52.7%, Singapore 14.9%, NZ 6.8%, US 6.6% (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$579.8 million (2004)


Debt - external:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Comptoirs Francais du Pacifique franc (XPF)


Currency code:

XPF


Exchange rates:

Comptoirs Francais du Pacifique francs (XPF) per US dollar - 87.59
(2007), 94.97 (2006), 95.89 (2005), 96.04 (2004), 105.66 (2003)
note: pegged at the rate of 119.25 XPF to the euro


Communications
French Polynesia



Telephones - main lines in use:

53,600 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

174,800 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: NA
domestic: NA
international: country code - 689; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 2, FM 14, shortwave 2 (1998)


Radios:

128,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

7 (plus 17 repeaters) (1997)


Televisions:

40,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.pf


Internet hosts:

14,070 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

2 (2000)


Internet users:

75,000 (2007)


Transportation
French Polynesia



Airports:

54 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 37
over 3,047 m: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
914 to 1,523 m: 27
under 914 m: 3 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 17
914 to 1,523 m: 9
under 914 m: 8 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 2,590 km
paved: 1,735 km
unpaved: 855 km (1999)


Merchant marine:

total: 15
by type: cargo 6, passenger 2, passenger/cargo 5, refrigerated cargo
1, roll on/roll off 1
registered in other countries: 2 (Wallis and Futuna 2) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Papeete


Military
French Polynesia



Military branches:

no regular military forces; Gendarmerie and National Police Force
(2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 79,540 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 64,287 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 2,699
female: 2,589 (2008 est.)


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of France


Transnational Issues
French Polynesia



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@French Southern and Antarctic Lands

Introduction
French Southern and Antarctic Lands



Background:

In February 2007, the Iles Eparses became an integral part of the
French Southern and Antarctic Lands (TAAF). The Southern Lands are
now divided into five administrative districts, two of which are
archipelagos, Iles Crozet and Iles Kerguelen; the third is a
district composed of two volcanic islands, Ile Saint-Paul and Ile
Amsterdam; the fourth, Iles Eparses, consists of five scattered
tropical islands around Madagascar. They contain no permanent
inhabitants and are visited only by researchers studying the native
fauna, scientists at the various scientific stations, fishermen, and
military personnel. The fifth district is the Antarctic portion,
which consists of "Adelie Land," a thin slice of the Antarctic
continent discovered and claimed by the French in 1840.
Ile Amsterdam: Discovered but not named in 1522 by the Spanish, the
island subsequently received the appellation of Nieuw Amsterdam from
a Dutchman; it was claimed by France in 1843. A short-lived attempt
at cattle farming began in 1871. A French meteorological station
established on the island in 1949 is still in use.
Ile Saint Paul: Claimed by France since 1893, the island was a
fishing industry center from 1843 to 1914. In 1928, a spiny lobster
cannery was established, but when the company went bankrupt in 1931,
seven workers were abandoned. Only two survived until 1934 when
rescue finally arrived.
Iles Crozet: A large archipelago formed from the Crozet Plateau,
Iles Crozet is divided into two main groups: L'Occidental (the
West), which includes Ile aux Cochons, Ilots des Apotres, Ile des
Pingouins, and the reefs Brisants de l'Heroine; and L'Oriental (the
east), which includes Ile d'Est and Ile de la Possession (the
largest island of the Crozets). Discovered and claimed by France in
1772, the islands were used for seal hunting and as a base for
whaling. Originally administered as a dependency of Madagascar, they
became part of the TAAF in 1955.
Iles Kerguelen: This island group, discovered in 1772, is made up of
one large island (Ile Kerguelen) and about 300 smaller islands. A
permanent group of 50 to 100 scientists resides at the main base at
Port-aux-Francais.
Adelie Land: The only non-insular district of the TAAF is the
Antarctic claim known as "Adelie Land." The US Government does not
recognize it as a French dependency.
Bassas da India: A French possession since 1897, this atoll is a
volcanic rock surrounded by reefs and is awash at high tide.
Europa Island: This heavily wooded island has been a French
possession since 1897; it is the site of a small military garrison
that staffs a weather station.
Glorioso Islands: A French possession since 1892, the Glorioso
Islands are composed of two lushly vegetated coral islands (Ile
Glorieuse and Ile du Lys) and three rock islets. A military garrison
operates a weather and radio station on Ile Glorieuse.
Juan de Nova Island: Named after a famous 15th century Spanish
navigator and explorer, the island has been a French possession
since 1897. It has been exploited for its guano and phosphate.
Presently a small military garrison oversees a meteorological
station.
Tromelin Island: First explored by the French in 1776, the island
came under the jurisdiction of Reunion in 1814. At present, it
serves as a sea turtle sanctuary and is the site of an important
meteorological station.


Geography
French Southern and Antarctic Lands



Location:

southeast and east of Africa, islands in the southern Indian Ocean,
some near Madagascar and others about equidistant between Africa,
Antarctica, and Australia; note - French Southern and Antarctic
Lands include Ile Amsterdam, Ile Saint-Paul, Iles Crozet, Iles
Kerguelen, Bassas da India, Europa Island, Glorioso Islands, Juan de
Nova Island, and Tromelin Island in the southern Indian Ocean, along
with the French-claimed sector of Antarctica, "Adelie Land"; the US
does not recognize the French claim to "Adelie Land"


Geographic coordinates:

Ile Amsterdam (Ile Amsterdam et Ile Saint-Paul): 37 50 S, 77 32 E
Ile Saint-Paul (Ile Amsterdam et Ile Saint-Paul): 38 72 S, 77 53 E
Iles Crozet: 46 25 S, 51 00 E
Iles Kerguelen: 49 15 S, 69 35 E
Bassas da India (Iles Eparses): 21 30 S, 39 50 E
Europa Island (Iles Eparses): 22 20 S, 40 22 E
Glorioso Islands (Iles Eparses): 11 30 S, 47 20 E
Juan de Nova Island (Iles Eparses): 17 03 S, 42 45 E
Tromelin Island (Iles Eparses): 15 52 S, 54 25 E


Map references:

Antarctic Region, Africa


Area:

Ile Amsterdam (Ile Amsterdam et Ile Saint-Paul): total - 55 sq km;
land - 55 sq km; water - 0 sq km
Ile Saint-Paul (Ile Amsterdam et Ile Saint-Paul): total - 7 sq km;
land - 7 sq km; water - 0 sq km
Iles Crozet: total - 352 sq km; land - 352 sq km; water - 0 sq km
Iles Kerguelen: total - 7,215 sq km; land - 7,215 sq km; water - 0
sq km
Bassas da India (Iles Eparses): total - 80 sq km; land - 0.2 sq km;
water - 79.8 sq km (lagoon)
Europa Island (Iles Eparses): total - 28 sq km; land - 28 sq km;
water - 0 sq km
Glorioso Islands (Iles Eparses): total - 5 sq km; land - 5 sq km;
water - 0 sq km
Juan de Nova Island (Iles Eparses): total - 4.4 sq km; land - 4.4 sq
km; water - 0 sq km
Tromelin Island (Iles Eparses): total - 1 sq km; land - 1 sq km;
water - 0 sq km
note: excludes "Adelie Land" claim of about 500,000 sq km in
Antarctica that is not recognized by the US


Area - comparative:

Ile Amsterdam (Ile Amsterdam et Ile Saint-Paul): less than one-half
the size of Washington, DC
Ile Saint-Paul (Ile Amsterdam et Ile Saint-Paul): more than 10 times
the size of The Mall in Washington, DC
Iles Crozet: about twice the size of Washington, DC
Iles Kerguelen: a little larger than Delaware
Bassas da India (Iles Eparses): land area about one-third the size
of The Mall in Washington, DC
Europa Island (Iles Eparses): about one-sixth the size of
Washington, DC
Glorioso Islands (Iles Eparses): about eight times the size of The
Mall in Washington, DC
Juan de Nova Island (Iles Eparses): about seven times the size of
The Mall in Washington, DC
Tromelin Island (Iles Eparses): about 1.7 times the size of The Mall
in Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

Ile Amsterdam (Ile Amsterdam et Ile Saint-Paul): 28 km
Ile Saint-Paul (Ile Amsterdam et Ile Saint-Paul):
Iles Kerguelen: 2,800 km
Bassas da India (Iles Eparses): 35.2 km
Europa Island (Iles Eparses): 22.2 km
Glorioso Islands (Iles Eparses): 35.2 km
Juan de Nova Island (Iles Eparses): 24.1 km
Tromelin Island (Iles Eparses): 3.7 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm from Iles Kerguelen and Iles Eparses
(does not include the rest of French Southern and Antarctic Lands);
Juan de Nova Island and Tromelin Island claim a continental shelf of
200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation


Climate:

Ile Amsterdam et Ile Saint-Paul: oceanic with persistent westerly
winds and high humidity
Iles Crozet: windy, cold, wet, and cloudy
Iles Kerguelen: oceanic, cold, overcast, windy
Iles Eparses: tropical


Terrain:

Ile Amsterdam (Ile Amsterdam et Ile Saint-Paul): a volcanic island
with steep coastal cliffs; the center floor of the volcano is a
large plateau
Ile Saint-Paul (Ile Amsterdam et Ile Saint-Paul): triangular in
shape, the island is the top of a volcano, rocky with steep cliffs
on the eastern side; has active thermal springs
Iles Crozet: a large archipelago formed from the Crozet Plateau is
divided into two groups of islands
Iles Kerguelen: the interior of the large island of Ile Kerguelen is
composed of rugged terrain of high mountains, hills, valleys, and
plains with a number of peninsulas stretching off its coasts
Bassas da India (Iles Eparses): atoll, awash at high tide; shallow
(15 m) lagoon
Europa Island, Glorioso Islands, Juan de Nova Island: low, flat, and
sandy
Tromelin Island (Iles Eparses): low, flat, sandy; likely volcanic
seamount


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
highest point: Mont de la Dives on Ile Amsterdam (Ile Amsterdam et
Ile Saint-Paul) 867 m; unnamed location on Ile Saint-Paul (Ile
Amsterdam et Ile Saint-Paul) 272 m; Pic Marion-Dufresne in Iles
Crozet 1,090 m; Mont Ross in Iles Kerguelen 1,850 m; unnamed
location on Bassas de India (Iles Eparses) 2.4 m; unnamed location
on Europa Island (Iles Eparses) 24 m; unnamed location on Glorioso
Islands (Iles Eparses) 12 m; unnamed location on Juan de Nova Island
(Iles Eparses) 10 m; unnamed location on Tromelin Island (Iles
Eparses) 7 m


Natural resources:

fish, crayfish
note: Glorioso Islands and Tromelin Island (Iles Eparses) have
guano, phosphates, and coconuts


Land use:

Ile Amsterdam (Ile Amsterdam et Ile Saint-Paul) - 100% trees,
grasses, ferns, and moss; Ile Saint-Paul (Ile Amsterdam et Ile
Saint-Paul) - 100% grass, ferns, and moss; Iles Crozet - 100%
tossock grass, heath, and fern; Iles Kerguelen - 100% tossock grass
and Kerguelen cabbage; Bassas da India (Iles Eparses) - 100% rock,
coral reef, and sand; Europa Island (Iles Eparses) - 100% mangrove
swamp and dry woodlands; Glorioso Islands (Iles Eparses) - 100% lush
vegetation and coconut palms; Juan de Nova Island (Iles Eparses) -
90% forest, 10% other; Tromelin Island (Iles Eparses) - 100% grasses
and scattered brush (2005)


Irrigated land:

0 sq km


Natural hazards:

Ile Amsterdam and Ile Saint-Paul are inactive volcanoes; Iles
Eparses subject to periodic cyclones; Bassas da India is a maritime
hazard since it is under water for a period of three hours prior to
and following the high tide and surrounded by reefs


Environment - current issues:

introduction of foreign species on Iles Crozet has caused severe
damage to the original ecosystem; overfishing of Patagonian
Toothfish around Iles Crozet and Iles Kerguelen


Geography - note:

islands component is widely scattered across remote locations in the
southern Indian Ocean
Bassas da India (Iles Eparses): the atoll is a circular reef that
sits atop a long-extinct, submerged volcano
Europa Island and Juan de Nova Island (Iles Eparses): wildlife
sanctuary for seabirds and sea turtles
Glorioso Island (Iles Eparses): the islands and rocks are surrounded
by an extensive reef system
Tromelin Island (Iles Eparses): climatologically important location
for forecasting cyclones in the western Indian Ocean; wildlife
sanctuary (seabirds, tortoises)


People
French Southern and Antarctic Lands



Population:

no indigenous inhabitants
Ile Amsterdam (Ile Amsterdam et Ile Saint-Paul): has no permanent
residents but has a meteorological station
Ile Saint-Paul (Ile Amsterdam et Ile Saint-Paul): is uninhabited but
is frequently visited by fishermen and has a scientific research
cabin for short stays
Iles Crozet: are uninhabited except for 18 to 30 people staffing the
Alfred Faure research station on Ile del la Possession
Iles Kerguelen: 50 to 100 scientists are located at the main base at
Port-aux-Francais on Ile Kerguelen
Bassas da India (Iles Eparses): uninhabitable
Europa Island, Glorioso Islands, Juan de Nova Island (Iles Eparses):
a small French military garrison and a few meteorologists on each
possession; visited by scientists
Tromelin Island (Iles Eparses): uninhabited, except for visits by
scientists


Government
French Southern and Antarctic Lands



Country name:

conventional long form: Territory of the French Southern and
Antarctic Lands
conventional short form: French Southern and Antarctic Lands
local long form: Territoire des Terres Australes et Antarctiques
Francaises
local short form: Terres Australes et Antarctiques Francaises
abbreviation: TAAF


Dependency status:

overseas territory of France since 1955; administered from Paris by
Administrateur Superieur Eric PILLOTON (since 10 April 2007)


Administrative divisions:

none (overseas territory of France); there are no first-order
administrative divisions as defined by the US Government, but there
are five administrative districts named Iles Crozet, Iles Eparses,
Iles Kerguelen, Ile Saint-Paul et Ile Amsterdam; the fifth district
is the "Adelie Land" claim in Antarctica that is not recognized by
the US


Legal system:

the laws of France, where applicable, apply


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Nicolas SARKOZY (since 16 May 2007),
represented by Senior Administrator Rollon MOUCHEL-BLAISOT (16
October 2008)


International organization participation:

UPU


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (overseas territory of France)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (overseas territory of France)


Flag description:

the flag of France is used


Economy
French Southern and Antarctic Lands



Economy - overview:

Economic activity is limited to servicing meteorological and
geophysical research stations, military bases, and French and other
fishing fleets. The fish catches landed on Iles Kerguelen by foreign
ships are exported to France and Reunion.


Communications
French Southern and Antarctic Lands



Internet country code:

.tf


Internet hosts:

38 (2008)


Communications - note:

one or more meteorological stations on each possession; note -
meteorological station on Tromelin Island (Iles Eparses) is
important for forecasting cyclones


Transportation
French Southern and Antarctic Lands



Airports:

4 (one each on Europa Island, Glorioso Islands, Juan de Nova Island,
and Tromelin Island in the Iles Eparses district) (2006)


Ports and terminals:

none; offshore anchorage only


Transportation - note:

aids to navigation - lighthouses: Europa Island 18m; Juan de Nova
Island (W side) 37m; Tromelin Island (NW point) 11m (all in the Iles
Eparses district)


Military
French Southern and Antarctic Lands



Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of France


Transnational Issues
French Southern and Antarctic Lands



Disputes - international:

French claim to "Adelie Land" in Antarctica is not recognized by the
US
Bassas da India, Europa Island, Glorioso Islands, Juan de Nova
Island (Iles Eparses): claimed by Madagascar
Tromelin Island (Iles Eparses): claimed by Mauritius



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Gabon

Introduction
Gabon



Background:

Only two autocratic presidents have ruled Gabon since independence
from France in 1960. The current president of Gabon, El Hadj Omar
BONGO Ondimba - one of the longest-serving heads of state in the
world - has dominated the country's political scene for four
decades. President BONGO introduced a nominal multiparty system and
a new constitution in the early 1990s. However, allegations of
electoral fraud during local elections in 2002-03 and the
presidential elections in 2005 have exposed the weaknesses of formal
political structures in Gabon. Gabon's political opposition remains
weak, divided, and financially dependent on the current regime.
Despite political conditions, a small population, abundant natural
resources, and considerable foreign support have helped make Gabon
one of the more prosperous and stable African countries.


Geography
Gabon



Location:

Western Africa, bordering the Atlantic Ocean at the Equator, between
Republic of the Congo and Equatorial Guinea


Geographic coordinates:

1 00 S, 11 45 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 267,667 sq km
land: 257,667 sq km
water: 10,000 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Colorado


Land boundaries:

total: 2,551 km
border countries: Cameroon 298 km, Republic of the Congo 1,903 km,
Equatorial Guinea 350 km


Coastline:

885 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; always hot, humid


Terrain:

narrow coastal plain; hilly interior; savanna in east and south


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Mont Iboundji 1,575 m


Natural resources:

petroleum, natural gas, diamond, niobium, manganese, uranium, gold,
timber, iron ore, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 1.21%
permanent crops: 0.64%
other: 98.15% (2005)


Irrigated land:

70 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

164 cu km (1987)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.12 cu km/yr (50%/8%/42%)
per capita: 87 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

NA


Environment - current issues:

deforestation; poaching


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea,
Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical
Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

a small population and oil and mineral reserves have helped Gabon
become one of Africa's wealthier countries; in general, these
circumstances have allowed the country to maintain and conserve its
pristine rain forest and rich biodiversity


People
Gabon



Population:

1,485,832
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 42.1% (male 314,078/female 311,900)
15-64 years: 53.9% (male 399,586/female 401,602)
65 years and over: 3.9% (male 24,388/female 34,278) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 18.6 years
male: 18.4 years
female: 18.9 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.954% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

35.75 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

12.59 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-3.62 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.71 male(s)/female
total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 52.65 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 61.27 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 43.77 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 53.52 years
male: 52.5 years
female: 54.57 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

4.68 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

8.1% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

48,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

3,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever
vectorborne disease: malaria (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Gabonese (singular and plural)
adjective: Gabonese


Ethnic groups:

Bantu tribes, including four major tribal groupings (Fang, Bapounou,
Nzebi, Obamba); other Africans and Europeans, 154,000, including
10,700 French and 11,000 persons of dual nationality


Religions:

Christian 55%-75%, animist, Muslim less than 1%


Languages:

French (official), Fang, Myene, Nzebi, Bapounou/Eschira, Bandjabi


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 63.2%
male: 73.7%
female: 53.3% (1995 est.)


Education expenditures:

3.8% of GDP (2000)


Government
Gabon



Country name:

conventional long form: Gabonese Republic
conventional short form: Gabon
local long form: Republique gabonaise
local short form: Gabon


Government type:

republic; multiparty presidential regime


Capital:

name: Libreville
geographic coordinates: 0 23 N, 9 27 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

9 provinces; Estuaire, Haut-Ogooue, Moyen-Ogooue, Ngounie, Nyanga,
Ogooue-Ivindo, Ogooue-Lolo, Ogooue-Maritime, Woleu-Ntem


Independence:

17 August 1960 (from France)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 17 August (1960)


Constitution:

adopted 14 March 1991


Legal system:

based on French civil law system and customary law; judicial review
of legislative acts in Constitutional Chamber of the Supreme Court;
has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

21 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President El Hadj Omar BONGO Ondimba (since 2
December 1967)
head of government: Prime Minister Jean Eyeghe NDONG (since 20
January 2006)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister in
consultation with the president
elections: president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term
(no term limits); election last held 27 November 2005 (next to be
held in 2012); prime minister appointed by the president
election results: President El Hadj Omar BONGO Ondimba reelected;
percent of vote - El Hadj Omar BONGO Ondimba 79.2%, Pierre
MAMBOUNDOU 13.6%, Zacharie MYBOTO 6.6%


Legislative branch:

bicameral legislature consists of the Senate (91 seats; members
elected by members of municipal councils and departmental assemblies
to serve six-year terms) and the National Assembly or Assemblee
Nationale (120 seats; members are elected by direct, popular vote to
serve five-year terms)
elections: Senate - last held 26 January and 9 February 2003 (next
to be held by January 2009); National Assembly - last held 17 and 24
December 2006 (next to be held in December 2011)
election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - PDG 53, RNB 20, PGP 4, ADERE 3, RDP 1, CLR 1, independents
9; National Assembly - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party
- PDG 82, RPG 8, UPG 8, UGDD 4, ADERE 3, CLR 2, PGP-Ndaot 2, PSD 2,
independents 4, others 5


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court or Cour Supreme consisting of three chambers -
Judicial, Administrative, and Accounts; Constitutional Court; Courts
of Appeal; Court of State Security; County Courts


Political parties and leaders:

Circle of Liberal Reformers or CLR [General Jean Boniface ASSELE];
Congress for Democracy and Justice or CDJ [Jules Aristide Bourdes
OGOULIGUENDE]; Democratic and Republican Alliance or ADERE
[Divungui-di-Ndinge DIDJOB]; Gabonese Democratic Party or PDG
(former sole party) [Simplice Nguedet MANZELA]; Gabonese Party for
Progress or PGP [Benoit Mouity NZAMBA]; Gabonese Union for Democracy
and Development or UGDD [Zacherie MYBOTO]; National Rally of
Woodcutters or RNB; National Rally of Woodcutters-Rally for Gabon or
RNB-RPG (Bucherons) [Fr. Paul M'BA-ABESSOLE]; Party of Development
and Social Solidarity or PDS [Seraphin Ndoat REMBOGO]; People's
Unity Party or PUP [Louis Gaston MAYILA]; Social Democratic Party or
PSD [Pierre Claver MAGANGA-MOUSSAVOU]; Union for Democracy and
Social Integration or UDIS; Union of Gabonese Patriots or UPG
[Pierre MAMBOUNDOU]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

ACCT, ACP, AfDB, AU, BDEAC, CEMAC, FAO, FZ, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO,
Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA,
MINURCAT, NAM, OIC, OIF, OPCW, UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
UNMIS, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Carlos BOUNGOU
chancery: Suite 200, 2034 20th Street NW, Washington, DC 20009
telephone: [1] (202) 797-1000
FAX: [1] (202) 332-0668
consulate(s): New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Eunice S. REDDICK
embassy: Boulevard du Bord de Mer, Libreville
mailing address: Centre Ville, B. P. 4000, Libreville; pouch:2270
Libreville Place, Washington, DC 20521-2270
telephone: [241] 76 20 03 through 76 20 04, after hours - 07380171
FAX: [241] 74 55 07


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of green (top), yellow, and blue


Economy
Gabon



Economy - overview:

Gabon enjoys a per capita income four times that of most of
sub-Saharan African nations. but because of high income inequality,
a large proportion of the population remains poor. Gabon depended on
timber and manganese until oil was discovered offshore in the early
1970s. The oil sector now accounts for 50% of GDP. Gabon continues
to face fluctuating prices for its oil, timber, and manganese
exports. Despite the abundance of natural wealth, poor fiscal
management hobbles the economy. The devaluation of the CFA franc -
its currency - by 50% in January 1994 sparked a one-time
inflationary surge, to 35%; the rate dropped to 6% in 1996. The IMF
provided a one-year standby arrangement in 1994-95, a three-year
Enhanced Financing Facility (EFF) at near commercial rates beginning
in late 1995, and stand-by credit of $119 million in October 2000.
Those agreements mandated progress in privatization and fiscal
discipline. France provided additional financial support in January
1997 after Gabon met IMF targets for mid-1996. In 1997, an IMF
mission to Gabon criticized the government for overspending on
off-budget items, overborrowing from the central bank, and slipping
on its schedule for privatization and administrative reform. The
rebound of oil prices since 1999 have helped growth, but drops in
production have hampered Gabon from fully realizing potential gains,
and will continue to temper the gains for most of this decade. In
December 2000, Gabon signed a new agreement with the Paris Club to
reschedule its official debt. A follow-up bilateral repayment
agreement with the US was signed in December 2001. Gabon signed a
14-month Stand-By Arrangement with the IMF in May 2004, and received
Paris Club debt rescheduling later that year. Short-term progress
depends on an upbeat world economy and fiscal and other adjustments
in line with IMF policies.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$20.44 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$11.3 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6.2% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$14,000 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 6.1%
industry: 58%
services: 35.9% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

582,000 (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 60%
industry: 15%
services: 25%


Unemployment rate:

21% (2006 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Investment (gross fixed):

24.2% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $3.536 billion
expenditures: $2.347 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

52.8% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

5% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

5.25% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

15% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$1.547 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$799.3 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$359.8 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

cocoa, coffee, sugar, palm oil, rubber; cattle; okoume (a tropical
softwood); fish


Industries:

petroleum extraction and refining; manganese, gold; chemicals, ship
repair, food and beverages, textiles, lumbering and plywood, cement


Industrial production growth rate:

5.2% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

1.671 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

1.365 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 34.5%
hydro: 65.5%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

243,900 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

13,170 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

255,500 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

2,485 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

2 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

100 million cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

100 million cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

28.32 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$1.552 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$6.956 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

crude oil 77%, timber, manganese, uranium (2001)


Exports - partners:

US 32.5%, China 15.8%, France 9.4%, Malaysia 6%, Trinidad and Tobago
5% (2007)


Imports:

$2.107 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, foodstuffs, chemicals, construction
materials


Imports - partners:

France 27.7%, US 19.1%, Belgium 5.4%, Netherlands 4.7%, China 4.1%
(2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$53.87 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$1.238 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$4.895 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XAF); note - responsible
authority is the Bank of the Central African States


Currency code:

XAF


Exchange rates:

Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XAF) per US dollar - 481.83
(2007), 522.89 (2006), 527.47 (2005), 528.29 (2004), 581.2 (2003)


Communications
Gabon



Telephones - main lines in use:

26,500 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

1.169 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: adequate service by African standards and
improving with the help of a growing mobile cell network system with
multiple providers; mobile-cellular subscribership reached 80 per
100 persons in 2007
domestic: adequate system of cable, microwave radio relay,
tropospheric scatter, radiotelephone communication stations, and a
domestic satellite system with 12 earth stations
international: country code - 241; landing point for the SAT-3/WASC
fiber-optic submarine cable that provides connectivity to Europe and
Asia; satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 6, FM 7 (plus 11 repeaters), shortwave 4 (2001)


Radios:

208,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

4 (plus 4 repeaters) (2001)


Televisions:

63,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.ga


Internet hosts:

88 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2001)


Internet users:

145,000 (2007)


Transportation
Gabon



Airports:

53 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 10
over 3,047 m: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 7
914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 43
1,524 to 2,437 m: 7
914 to 1,523 m: 13
under 914 m: 23 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 384 km; oil 1,427 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 814 km
standard gauge: 814 km 1.435-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 9,170 km
paved: 937 km
unpaved: 8,233 km (2004)


Waterways:

1,600 km (310 km on Ogooue River) (2007)


Merchant marine:

registered in other countries: 2 (Cambodia 1, Panama 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Gamba, Libreville, Lucinda, Port-Gentil


Military
Gabon



Military branches:

Army, Navy, Air Force, National Gendarmerie, National Police


Military service age and obligation:

20 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military service (2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 331,181
females age 16-49: 332,498 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 192,717
females age 16-49: 188,539 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 16,558
female: 16,577 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

3.4% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Gabon



Disputes - international:

UN urges Equatorial Guinea and Gabon to resolve the sovereignty
dispute over Gabon-occupied Mbane Island and lesser islands and to
establish a maritime boundary in hydrocarbon-rich Corisco Bay


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 7,178 (Republic of Congo) (2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Gabon is predominantly a destination country for
children trafficked from other African countries for the purpose of
forced labor; girls are primarily trafficked for domestic servitude,
forced market vending, forced restaurant labor, and sexual
exploitation, while boys are trafficked for forced street hawking
and forced labor in small workshops
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Gabon is on the Tier 2 Watch List
for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to combat
human trafficking in 2007, particularly in terms of efforts to
convict and punish trafficking offenders; the government has not
reported the convictions or sentences of any trafficking offenders;
the government did not take steps to reduce demand for commercial
sex acts (2008)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Gambia, The

Introduction
Gambia, The



Background:

The Gambia gained its independence from the UK in 1965.
Geographically surrounded by Senegal, it formed a short-lived
federation of Senegambia between 1982 and 1989. In 1991 the two
nations signed a friendship and cooperation treaty, but tensions
have flared up intermittently since then. Yahya A. J. J. JAMMEH led
a military coup in 1994 that overthrew the president and banned
political activity. A new constitution and presidential elections in
1996, followed by parliamentary balloting in 1997, completed a
nominal return to civilian rule. JAMMEH has been elected president
in all subsequent elections, including most recently in late 2006.


Geography
Gambia, The



Location:

Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean and Senegal


Geographic coordinates:

13 28 N, 16 34 W


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 11,300 sq km
land: 10,000 sq km
water: 1,300 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly less than twice the size of Delaware


Land boundaries:

total: 740 km
border countries: Senegal 740 km


Coastline:

80 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 18 nm
exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: extent not specified


Climate:

tropical; hot, rainy season (June to November); cooler, dry season
(November to May)


Terrain:

flood plain of the Gambia River flanked by some low hills


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: unnamed location 53 m


Natural resources:

fish, titanium (rutile and ilmenite), tin, zircon, silica sand,
clay, petroleum


Land use:

arable land: 27.88%
permanent crops: 0.44%
other: 71.68% (2005)


Irrigated land:

20 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

8 cu km (1982)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.03 cu km/yr (23%/12%/65%)
per capita: 20 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

drought (rainfall has dropped by 30% in the last 30 years)


Environment - current issues:

deforestation; desertification; water-borne diseases prevalent


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

almost an enclave of Senegal; smallest country on the continent of
Africa


People
Gambia, The



Population:

1,735,464 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 43.9% (male 382,385/female 378,853)
15-64 years: 53.4% (male 459,315/female 466,689)
65 years and over: 2.8% (male 24,303/female 23,919) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 17.9 years
male: 17.7 years
female: 18 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.724% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

38.36 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

11.74 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

0.61 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 1.02 male(s)/female
total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 68.72 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 75.07 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 62.18 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 54.95 years
male: 53.06 years
female: 56.9 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

5.13 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

1.2% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

6,800 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

600 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: dengue fever, malaria, Crimean-Congo
hemorrhagic fever, and yellow fever
water contact disease: schistosomiasis
respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Gambian(s)
adjective: Gambian


Ethnic groups:

African 99% (Mandinka 42%, Fula 18%, Wolof 16%, Jola 10%, Serahuli
9%, other 4%), non-African 1% (2003 census)


Religions:

Muslim 90%, Christian 8%, indigenous beliefs 2%


Languages:

English (official), Mandinka, Wolof, Fula, other indigenous
vernaculars


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 40.1%
male: 47.8%
female: 32.8% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 7 years
male: 7 years
female: 7 years (2004)


Education expenditures:

2% of GDP (2004)


Government
Gambia, The



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of The Gambia
conventional short form: The Gambia


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Banjul
geographic coordinates: 13 27 N, 16 34 W
time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

5 divisions and 1 city*; Banjul*, Central River, Lower River, North
Bank, Upper River, Western


Independence:

18 February 1965 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 18 February (1965)


Constitution:

approved by national referendum 8 August 1996; effective 16 January
1997


Legal system:

based on a composite of English common law, Islamic law, and
customary law; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Yahya A. J. J. JAMMEH (since 18 October
1996); note - from 1994 to 1996 he was chairman of the Junta; Vice
President Isatou NJIE-SAIDY (since 20 March 1997); note - the
president is both the chief of state and head of government
head of government: President Yahya A. J. J. JAMMEH (since 18
October 1996); Vice President Isatou NJIE-SAIDY (since 20 March 1997)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(no term limits); election last held 22 September 2006 (next to be
held in 2011)
election results: Yahya A. J. J. JAMMEH reelected president; percent
of vote - Yahya A. J. J. JAMMEH 67.3%, Ousainou DARBOE 26.6%, Halifa
SALLAH 6.0%


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly (53 seats; 48 members elected by
popular vote, 5 appointed by the president; to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held 25 January 2007 (next to be held in 2012)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
APRC 47, UDP 4, NADD 1, independent 1


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court


Political parties and leaders:

Alliance for Patriotic Reorientation and Construction or APRC (the
ruling party) [Yahya A. J. J. JAMMEH]; Gambia People's Democratic
Party or GPDP [Henry GOMEZ]; National Alliance for Democracy and
Development or NADD [Halifa SALLAH]; National Convention Party or
NCP [Sheriff DIBBA]; National Reconciliation Party or NRP [Hamat N.
K. BAH]; People's Democratic Organization for Independence and
Socialism or PDOIS [Sidia JATTA]; United Democratic Party or UDP
[Ousainou DARBOE]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

National Environment Agency or NEA; West African Peace Building
Network-Gambian Chapter or WANEB-GAMBIA; Youth Employment Network
Gambia or YENGambia
other: special needs group advocates; teachers and principals


International organization participation:

ABEDA, ACP, AfDB, AU, C, ECOWAS, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM,
IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU,
ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURCAT, NAM, OIC, OPCW, UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Abdul
Rahman COLE
chancery: Suite 600, 1424 K Street NW, Washington, DC 20005
telephone: [1] (202) 785-1379
FAX: [1] (202) 785-1430


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Barry L. WELLS
embassy: Kairaba Avenue, Fajara, Banjul
mailing address: P. M. B. No. 19, Banjul
telephone: [220] 439-2856, 437-6169, 437-6170
FAX: [220] 439-2475


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of red (top), blue with white edges,
and green


Economy
Gambia, The



Economy - overview:

The Gambia has no confirmed mineral or natural resource deposits and
has a limited agricultural base. About 75% of the population depends
on crops and livestock for its livelihood. Small-scale manufacturing
activity features the processing of peanuts, fish, and hides.
Reexport trade normally constitutes a major segment of economic
activity, but a 1999 government-imposed preshipment inspection plan,
and instability of the Gambian dalasi (currency) have drawn some of
the reexport trade away from The Gambia. The Gambia's natural beauty
and proximity to Europe has made it one of the larger markets for
tourism in West Africa. The government's 1998 seizure of the private
peanut firm Alimenta eliminated the largest purchaser of Gambian
groundnuts. Despite an announced program to begin privatizing key
parastatals, no plans have been made public that would indicate that
the government intends to follow through on its promises.
Unemployment and underemployment rates remain extremely high;
short-run economic progress depends on sustained bilateral and
multilateral aid, on responsible government economic management, on
continued technical assistance from the IMF and bilateral donors,
and on expected growth in the construction sector.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$2.061 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$653 million (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

7% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$1,200 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 32.8%
industry: 8.7%
services: 58.5% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

400,000 (1996)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 75%
industry: 19%
services: 6% (1996)


Unemployment rate:

NA%


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 1.8%
highest 10%: 37% (1998)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

50.2 (1998)


Investment (gross fixed):

25.4% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $181.1 million
expenditures: $163.4 million (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

5.1% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

10% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

27.92% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$186.7 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$180.4 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$169.9 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

rice, millet, sorghum, peanuts, corn, sesame, cassava (tapioca),
palm kernels; cattle, sheep, goats


Industries:

processing peanuts, fish, and hides; tourism, beverages,
agricultural machinery assembly, woodworking, metalworking, clothing


Industrial production growth rate:

-2.3% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

200.2 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

143.6 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

2,082 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

41.62 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

2,123 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$71 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$88 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

peanut products, fish, cotton lint, palm kernels, re-exports


Exports - partners:

India 37.7%, China 17.5%, UK 8.7%, France 5.1%, Belgium 4.2% (2007)


Imports:

$271 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

foodstuffs, manufactures, fuel, machinery and transport equipment


Imports - partners:

China 23.7%, Senegal 11.5%, Cote d'Ivoire 8.3%, Brazil 8%,
Netherlands 5.2% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$58.15 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$142.8 million (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$628.8 million (2003 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

dalasi (GMD)


Currency code:

GMD


Exchange rates:

dalasis (GMD) per US dollar - 27.79 (2007), 28.066 (2006), 28.575
(2005), 30.03 (2004), 27.306 (2003)


Communications
Gambia, The



Telephones - main lines in use:

76,400 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

795,900 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: adequate; a packet switched data network is
available; two mobile-cellular service providers
domestic: adequate network of microwave radio relay and open-wire;
combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity reached 50
telephones per 100 persons in 2007
international: country code - 220; microwave radio relay links to
Senegal and Guinea-Bissau; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat
(Atlantic Ocean) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 3, FM 2, shortwave 0 (2001)


Radios:

196,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (government-owned) (1997)


Televisions:

5,000 (2000)


Internet country code:

.gm


Internet hosts:

320 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

2 (2001)


Internet users:

100,200 (2007)


Transportation
Gambia, The



Airports:

1 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
over 3,047 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 3,742 km
paved: 723 km
unpaved: 3,019 km (2004)


Waterways:

390 km (on River Gambia; small ocean-going vessels can reach 190 km)
(2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 5
by type: passenger/cargo 4, petroleum tanker 1 (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Banjul


Military
Gambia, The



Military branches:

Office of the Chief of Defense: Gambian National Army (National
Guard, GNA), Gambian Navy (GN) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service; no conscription
(2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 379,668
females age 16-49: 384,438 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 230,202
females age 16-49: 244,480 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 19,650
female: 19,582 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0.5% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Gambia, The



Disputes - international:

attempts to stem refugees, cross-border raids, arms smuggling, and
other illegal activities by separatists from southern Senegal's
Casamance region, as well as from conflicts in other west African
states


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 5,955 (Sierra Leone) (2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: The Gambia is a source, transit, and destination
country for children and women trafficked for the purposes of forced
labor and commercial sexual exploitation; women and girls, and to a
lesser extent boys, are trafficked for sexual exploitation - in
particular to meet the demand for European sex tourism - and for
domestic servitude; boys are trafficked within the country for
forced begging and street vending; Gambian women and children may be
trafficked to Europe through trafficking schemes disguised as
migrant smuggling
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - for a second consecutive year, The
Gambia is on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to provide
evidence of increasing efforts to eliminate trafficking; The Gambia
failed to report any trafficking arrests, prosecutions, or
convictions in 2007, and the government demonstrated weak victim
protection efforts during the reporting period (2008)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Gaza Strip

Introduction
Gaza Strip



Background:

The September 1993 Israel-PLO Declaration of Principles on Interim
Self-Government Arrangements provided for a transitional period of
Palestinian self-rule in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. Under a
series of agreements signed between May 1994 and September 1999,
Israel transferred to the Palestinian Authority (PA) security and
civilian responsibility for Palestinian-populated areas of the West
Bank and Gaza. Negotiations to determine the permanent status of the
West Bank and Gaza stalled following the outbreak of an intifada in
September 2000, as Israeli forces reoccupied most
Palestinian-controlled areas. In April 2003, the Quartet (US, EU,
UN, and Russia) presented a roadmap to a final settlement of the
conflict by 2005 based on reciprocal steps by the two parties
leading to two states, Israel and a democratic Palestine. The
proposed date for a permanent status agreement was postponed
indefinitely due to violence and accusations that both sides had not
followed through on their commitments. Following Palestinian leader
Yasir ARAFAT's death in late 2004, Mahmud ABBAS was elected PA
president in January 2005. A month later, Israel and the PA agreed
to the Sharm el-Sheikh Commitments in an effort to move the peace
process forward. In September 2005, Israel unilaterally withdrew all
its settlers and soldiers and dismantled its military facilities in
the Gaza Strip and withdrew settlers and redeployed soldiers from
four small northern West Bank settlements. Nonetheless, Israel
controls maritime, airspace, and most access to the Gaza Strip. A
November 2005 PA-Israeli agreement authorized the reopening of the
Rafah border crossing between the Gaza Strip and Egypt under joint
PA and Egyptian control. In January 2006, the Islamic Resistance
Movement, HAMAS, won control of the Palestinian Legislative Council
(PLC). The international community refused to accept the HAMAS-led
government because it did not recognize Israel, would not renounce
violence, and refused to honor previous peace agreements between
Israel and the PA. HAMAS took control of the PA government in March
2006, but President ABBAS had little success negotiating with HAMAS
to present a political platform acceptable to the international
community so as to lift economic sanctions on Palestinians. The PLC
was unable to convene throughout most of 2006 as a result of
Israel's detention of many HAMAS PLC members and Israeli-imposed
travel restrictions on other PLC members. Violent clashes took place
between Fatah and HAMAS supporters in the Gaza Strip in 2006 and
early 2007, resulting in numerous Palestinian deaths and injuries.
ABBAS and HAMAS Political Bureau Chief MISHAL in February 2007
signed the Mecca Agreement in Saudi Arabia that resulted in the
formation of a Palestinian National Unity Government (NUG) headed by
HAMAS member Ismail HANIYA. However, fighting continued in the Gaza
Strip, and in June, HAMAS militants succeeded in a violent takeover
of all military and governmental institutions in the Gaza Strip.
ABBAS dismissed the NUG and through a series of Presidential decrees
formed a PA government in the West Bank led by independent Salam
FAYYAD. HAMAS rejected the NUG's dismissal and has called for
resuming talks with Fatah, but ABBAS has ruled out negotiations
until HAMAS agrees to a return of PA control over the Gaza Strip and
recognizes the FAYYAD-led government. FAYYAD and his PA government
initiated a series of security and economic reforms to improve
conditions in the West Bank. ABBAS participated in talks with
Israel's Prime Minister OLMERT and secured the release of some
Palestinian prisoners and previously withheld customs revenue.
During a November 2007 international meeting in Annapolis Maryland,
ABBAS and OLMERT agreed to resume peace negotiations with the goal
of reaching a final peace settlement by the end of 2008.


Geography
Gaza Strip



Location:

Middle East, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between Egypt and
Israel


Geographic coordinates:

31 25 N, 34 20 E


Map references:

Middle East


Area:

total: 360 sq km
land: 360 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly more than twice the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

total: 62 km
border countries: Egypt 11 km, Israel 51 km


Coastline:

40 km


Maritime claims:

Israeli-occupied with current status subject to the
Israeli-Palestinian Interim Agreement - permanent status to be
determined through further negotiation


Climate:

temperate, mild winters, dry and warm to hot summers


Terrain:

flat to rolling, sand- and dune-covered coastal plain


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Mediterranean Sea 0 m
highest point: Abu 'Awdah (Joz Abu 'Auda) 105 m


Natural resources:

arable land, natural gas


Land use:

arable land: 29%
permanent crops: 21%
other: 50% (2002)


Irrigated land:

150 sq km; note - includes West Bank (2003)


Natural hazards:

droughts


Environment - current issues:

desertification; salination of fresh water; sewage treatment;
water-borne disease; soil degradation; depletion and contamination
of underground water resources


Geography - note:

strategic strip of land along Mideast-North African trade routes has
experienced an incredibly turbulent history; the town of Gaza itself
has been besieged countless times in its history


People
Gaza Strip



Population:

1,500,202 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 44.7% (male 343,988/female 325,856)
15-64 years: 52.7% (male 403,855/female 386,681)
65 years and over: 2.7% (male 16,196/female 23,626) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 17.2 years
male: 17 years
female: 17.4 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

3.422% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

37.75 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

3.53 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.69 male(s)/female
total population: 1.04 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 19 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 20.22 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 17.72 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 73.16 years
male: 71.6 years
female: 74.83 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

5.19 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: NA
adjective: NA


Ethnic groups:

Palestinian Arab


Religions:

Muslim (predominantly Sunni) 99.3%, Christian 0.7%


Languages:

Arabic, Hebrew (spoken by many Palestinians), English (widely
understood)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 92.4%
male: 96.7%
female: 88% (2004 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 14 years
male: 13 years
female: 14 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Gaza Strip



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Gaza Strip
local long form: none
local short form: Qita Ghazzah


Economy
Gaza Strip



Economy - overview:

High population density, limited land access, and strict internal
and external security controls have kept economic conditions in the
Gaza Strip - the smaller of the two areas under the Palestinian
Authority (PA)- even more degraded than in the West Bank. The
beginning of the second intifada in September 2000 sparked an
economic downturn, largely the result of Israeli closure policies;
these policies, which were imposed to address security concerns in
Israel, disrupted labor and trade access to and from the Gaza Strip.
In 2001, and even more severely in 2003, Israeli military measures
in PA areas resulted in the destruction of capital, the disruption
of administrative structures, and widespread business closures. The
Israeli withdrawal from the Gaza Strip in September 2005 offered
some medium-term opportunities for economic growth, but continued
Israeli-imposed crossings closures, which became more restrictive
after Hamas violently took over the territory in June 2007, have
resulted in widespread private sector layoffs and shortages of most
goods.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$5.034 billion (includes West Bank) (2006 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$5.328 billion (includes West Bank) (2006 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

-8% (includes West Bank) (2006 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$1,100 (includes West Bank) (2006 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 8%
industry: 13%
services: 79% (includes West Bank) (2006 est.)


Labor force:

267,000 (2006)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 12%
industry: 18%
services: 70% (2005)


Unemployment rate:

34.8% (2006)


Population below poverty line:

80% (2007 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $1.149 billion
expenditures: $2.31 billion
note: includes West Bank (2006)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

3.6% (includes West Bank) (2006)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

7.73% (31 December 2006)


Stock of money:

$1.574 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$3.048 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$1.455 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

olives, citrus, vegetables; beef, dairy products


Industries:

generally small family businesses that produce textiles, soap,
olive-wood carvings, and mother-of-pearl souvenirs; the Israelis had
established some small-scale modern industries in an industrial
center, but operations ceased prior to Israel's evacuation of Gaza
Strip settlements


Industrial production growth rate:

2.4% (includes West Bank) (2005)


Electricity - production:

140,000 kWh (2005)


Electricity - consumption:

230,000 kWh (2005)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2005)


Electricity - imports:

90,000 kWh; note - from Israeli Electric Company (2005)


Exports:

$301 million f.o.b.; (includes West Bank) (2005)


Exports - commodities:

citrus, flowers, textiles


Exports - partners:

Israel, Egypt, West Bank (2006)


Imports:

$2.44 billion c.i.f.; (includes West Bank) (2005)


Imports - commodities:

food, consumer goods, construction materials


Imports - partners:

Israel, Egypt, West Bank (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$1.4 billion; (includes West Bank) (2006 est.)


Debt - external:

$NA


Currency (code):

new Israeli shekel (ILS)


Currency code:

ILS


Exchange rates:

new Israeli shekels (ILS) per US dollar - 4.14 (2007), 4.4565
(2006), 4.4877 (2005), 4.482 (2004), 4.5541 (2003)


Communications
Gaza Strip



Telephones - main lines in use:

350,400 (includes West Bank) (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

1.026 million (includes West Bank) (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: NA
domestic: Israeli company BEZEK and the Palestinian company PALTEL
are responsible for fixed line services; the Palestinian JAWAL
company provides cellular services
international: country code - 970 (2004)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 0, FM 10, shortwave 0 (2008)


Radios:

NA; note - most Palestinian households have radios (1999)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (2008)


Televisions:

NA; note - most Palestinian households have televisions (1997)


Internet country code:

.ps; note - same as West Bank


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

3 (1999)


Internet users:

355,500 (includes West Bank) (2007)


Transportation
Gaza Strip



Airports:

2 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
over 3,047 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 1
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Roadways:

note: see entry for West Bank


Ports and terminals:

Gaza


Military
Gaza Strip



Military branches:

in accordance with the peace agreement, the Palestinian Authority is
not permitted conventional military forces; there are, however,
public security forces (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 337,670 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 291,467 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 19,275
female: 18,309 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

NA


Transnational Issues
Gaza Strip



Disputes - international:

West Bank and Gaza Strip are Israeli-occupied with current status
subject to the Israeli-Palestinian Interim Agreement - permanent
status to be determined through further negotiation; Israel removed
settlers and military personnel from the Gaza Strip in August 2005


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 1.017 million (Palestinian Refugees
(UNRWA)) (2007)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Georgia

Introduction
Georgia



Background:

The region of present-day Georgia contained the ancient kingdoms of
Colchis and Kartli-Iberia. The area came under Roman influence in
the first centuries A.D. and Christianity became the state religion
in the 330s. Domination by Persians, Arabs, and Turks was followed
by a Georgian golden age (11th-13th centuries) that was cut short by
the Mongol invasion of 1236. Subsequently, the Ottoman and Persian
empires competed for influence in the region. Georgia was absorbed
into the Russian Empire in the 19th century. Independent for three
years (1918-1921) following the Russian revolution, it was forcibly
incorporated into the USSR until the Soviet Union dissolved in 1991.
An attempt by the incumbent Georgian government to manipulate
national legislative elections in November 2003 touched off
widespread protests that led to the resignation of Eduard
SHEVARDNADZE, president since 1995. New elections in early 2004
swept Mikheil SAAKASHVILI into power along with his National
Movement party. Progress on market reforms and democratization has
been made in the years since independence, but this progress has
been complicated by Russian assistance and support to the breakaway
regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia. Georgian military action in
South Ossetia in early August 2008 led to a Russian military
response that not only occupied the breakaway areas, but large
portions of Georgia proper as well. Russian troops pulled back from
most occupied Georgian territory, but in late August 2008 Russia
unilaterally recognized the independence of Abkhazia and South
Ossetia. This action was strongly condemned by most of the world's
nations and international organizations.


Geography
Georgia



Location:

Southwestern Asia, bordering the Black Sea, between Turkey and Russia


Geographic coordinates:

42 00 N, 43 30 E


Map references:

Asia


Area:

total: 69,700 sq km
land: 69,700 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than South Carolina


Land boundaries:

total: 1,461 km
border countries: Armenia 164 km, Azerbaijan 322 km, Russia 723 km,
Turkey 252 km


Coastline:

310 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

warm and pleasant; Mediterranean-like on Black Sea coast


Terrain:

largely mountainous with Great Caucasus Mountains in the north and
Lesser Caucasus Mountains in the south; Kolkhet'is Dablobi (Kolkhida
Lowland) opens to the Black Sea in the west; Mtkvari River Basin in
the east; good soils in river valley flood plains, foothills of
Kolkhida Lowland


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Black Sea 0 m
highest point: Mt'a Shkhara 5,201 m


Natural resources:

forests, hydropower, manganese deposits, iron ore, copper, minor
coal and oil deposits; coastal climate and soils allow for important
tea and citrus growth


Land use:

arable land: 11.51%
permanent crops: 3.79%
other: 84.7% (2005)


Irrigated land:

4,690 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

63.3 cu km (1997)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 3.61 cu km/yr (20%/21%/59%)
per capita: 808 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

earthquakes


Environment - current issues:

air pollution, particularly in Rust'avi; heavy pollution of Mtkvari
River and the Black Sea; inadequate supplies of potable water; soil
pollution from toxic chemicals


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

strategically located east of the Black Sea; Georgia controls much
of the Caucasus Mountains and the routes through them


People
Georgia



Population:

4,630,841 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 16.3% (male 402,961/female 352,735)
15-64 years: 67.1% (male 1,496,802/female 1,610,725)
65 years and over: 16.6% (male 307,795/female 459,823) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 38.3 years
male: 35.8 years
female: 40.7 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

-0.325% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

10.62 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

9.51 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-4.36 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.13 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.14 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.93 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.67 male(s)/female
total population: 0.91 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 16.78 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 18.81 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 14.48 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 76.51 years
male: 73.21 years
female: 80.26 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.43 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

less than 0.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

3,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 200 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Georgian(s)
adjective: Georgian


Ethnic groups:

Georgian 83.8%, Azeri 6.5%, Armenian 5.7%, Russian 1.5%, other 2.5%
(2002 census)


Religions:

Orthodox Christian 83.9%, Muslim 9.9%, Armenian-Gregorian 3.9%,
Catholic 0.8%, other 0.8%, none 0.7% (2002 census)


Languages:

Georgian 71% (official), Russian 9%, Armenian 7%, Azeri 6%, other 7%
note: Abkhaz is the official language in Abkhazia


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 100%
male: 100%
female: 100% (2004 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 12 years
male: 12 years
female: 13 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

3.1% of GDP (2006)


Government
Georgia



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Georgia
local long form: none
local short form: Sak'art'velo
former: Georgian Soviet Socialist Republic


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: T'bilisi
geographic coordinates: 41 43 N, 44 47 E
time difference: UTC+4 (9 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

9 regions (mkharebi, singular - mkhare), 1 city (k'alak'i), and 2
autonomous republics (avtomnoy respubliki, singular - avtom
respublika)
regions: Guria, Imereti, Kakheti, Kvemo Kartli, Mtskheta-Mtianeti,
Racha-Lechkhumi and Kvemo Svaneti, Samegrelo and Zemo Svaneti,
Samtskhe-Javakheti, Shida Kartli
city: Tbilisi
autonomous republics: Abkhazia or Ap'khazet'is Avtonomiuri
Respublika (Sokhumi), Ajaria or Acharis Avtonomiuri Respublika
(Bat'umi)
note: the administrative centers of the two autonomous republics are
shown in parentheses


Independence:

9 April 1991 (from Soviet Union)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 26 May (1918); note - 26 May 1918 was the date of
independence from Soviet Russia, 9 April 1991 was the date of
independence from the Soviet Union


Constitution:

adopted 24 August 1995


Legal system:

based on civil law system; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Mikheil SAAKASHVILI (since 25 January
2004); the president is both the chief of state and head of
government for the power ministries: state security (includes
interior) and defense
head of government: President Mikheil SAAKASHVILI (since 25 January
2004); Prime Minister Grigol MGALOBLISHVILI (since 1 November 2008);
the president is both the chief of state and head of government for
the power ministries: state security (includes interior) and
defense; the prime minister is head of the remaining ministries of
government
cabinet: Cabinet of Ministers
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 5 January 2008
(next to be held January 2013)
election results: Mikheil SAAKASHVILI reelected president; percent
of vote - Mikheil SAAKASHVILI 53.5%, Levan GACHECHILADZE 25.7%,
Badri PATARKATSISHVILI 7.1%


Legislative branch:

unicameral Parliament or Parlamenti (also known as Supreme Council
or Umaghlesi Sabcho) (235 seats; 150 members elected by proportional
representation, 75 from single-seat constituencies, and 10 represent
displaced persons from Abkhazia; to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held 21 May 2008 (next to be held in spring 2012)
election results: percent of vote by party - National
Movement-Democratic Front 59.2%, National Council-New Rights 17.7%,
other parties 23.1%; seats by party - National Movement-Democratic
Front 120, National Council-New Rights 16


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (judges elected by the Supreme Council on the
president's or chairman of the Supreme Court's recommendation);
Constitutional Court; first and second instance courts


Political parties and leaders:

Burjanadze-Democrats [Nino BURJANADZE]; Georgian People's Front
[Nodar NATADZE]; Georgian United Communist Party or UCPG
[Panteleimon GIORGADZE]; Georgia's Way Party [Salome ZOURABICHVILI];
Greens [Giorgi GACHECHILADZE]; Industry Will Save Georgia
(Industrialists) or IWSG [Georgi TOPADZE]; Labor Party [Shalva
NATELASHVILI]; National Council-New Rights (a bloc uniting a
nine-party alliance with New Rights); National Democratic Party or
NDP [Bachuki KARDAVA]; National Movement-Democratic Front [Mikheil
SAAKASHVILI] (bloc composed of National Movement and
Burjanadze-Democrats); National Movement [Mikheil SAAKASHVILI]; New
Rights [David GAMKRELIDZE]; Republican Party [David USUPASHVILI];
Socialist Party or SPG [Irakli MINDELI]; Traditionalists [Akaki
ASATIANI]; Union of National Forces-Conservatives [Koba DAVITASHVILI
and Zviad DZIDZIGURI]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

other: Georgian independent deputies from Abkhaz government in
exile; separatists in the breakaway regions of Abkhazia and South
Ossetia


International organization participation:

ACCT (observer), ADB, BSEC, CE, CIS, EAPC, EBRD, FAO, GCTU, GUAM,
IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF,
IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC,
MIGA, OAS (observer), OIF (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PFP, SECI
(observer), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO,
WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Vasil SIKHARULIDZE
chancery: 2209 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 387-2390
FAX: [1] (202) 393-4537


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador John F. TEFFT
embassy: 11 George Balanchine Street, T'bilisi 0131
mailing address: 7060 T'bilisi Place, Washington, DC 20521-7060
telephone: [995] (32) 27-70-00
FAX: [995] (32) 53-23-10


Flag description:

white rectangle, in its central portion a red cross connecting all
four sides of the flag; in each of the four corners is a small red
bolnur-katskhuri cross; the five-cross flag appears to date back to
the 14th century


Economy
Georgia



Economy - overview:

Georgia's economy has sustained robust GDP growth of close to 10% in
2006 and 12% in 2007, based on strong inflows of foreign investment
and robust government spending. However, a widening trade deficit
and higher inflation are emerging risks to the economy. Areas of
recent improvement include increasing foreign direct investment as
well as growth in the construction, banking services and mining
sectors. Georgia's main economic activities include the cultivation
of agricultural products such as grapes, citrus fruits, and
hazelnuts; mining of manganese and copper; and output of a small
industrial sector producing alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages,
metals, machinery, aircraft and chemicals. The country imports
nearly all its needed supplies of natural gas and oil products. It
has sizeable hydropower capacity, a growing component of its energy
supplies. Despite the severe damage the economy suffered due to
civil strife in the 1990s, Georgia, with the help of the IMF and
World Bank, has made substantial economic gains since 2000,
achieving positive GDP growth and curtailing inflation. Georgia's
GDP growth neared 10% in 2006 and 2007 despite restrictions on
commerce with Russia. Areas of recent improvement include increased
foreign direct investment as well as growth in the construction,
banking services, and mining sectors. In addition, the reinvigorated
privatization process has met with success. However, a widening
trade deficit and higher inflation are emerging risks to the
economy. Georgia has suffered from a chronic failure to collect tax
revenues; however, the new government is making progress and has
reformed the tax code, improved tax administration, increased tax
enforcement, and cracked down on corruption. Government revenues
have increased nearly four fold since 2003. Due to improvements in
customs and financial (tax) enforcement, smuggling is a declining
problem. Georgia has overcome the chronic energy shortages of the
past by renovating hydropower plants and by bringing newly available
natural gas supplies from Azerbaijan. It also has an increased
ability to pay for more expensive gas imports from Russia. The
country is pinning its hopes for long-term growth on a determined
effort to reduce regulation, taxes and corruption in order to
attract foreign investment. The construction on the
Baku-T'bilisi-Ceyhan oil pipeline, the Baku-T'bilisi-Erzerum gas
pipeline, and the Kars-Akhalkalaki Railroad are part of a strategy
to capitalize on Georgia's strategic location between Europe and
Asia and develop its role as a transit point for gas, oil and other
goods.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$20.6 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$10.29 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

12% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$4,400 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 13%
industry: 28.7%
services: 58.3% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

2.02 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 55.6%
industry: 8.9%
services: 35.5% (2006 est.)


Unemployment rate:

13.6% (2006 est.)


Population below poverty line:

31% (2006)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.4%
highest 10%: 27% (2005)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

40.4 (2003)


Investment (gross fixed):

29.4% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $3.68 billion
expenditures: $3.08 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

9.3% (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

20.41% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$1.154 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$1.379 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$3.374 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

citrus, grapes, tea, hazelnuts, vegetables; livestock


Industries:

steel, aircraft, machine tools, electrical appliances, mining
(manganese and copper), chemicals, wood products, wine


Industrial production growth rate:

13.4% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

7.116 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

6.694 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

635 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

532 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 19.7%
hydro: 80.3%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

979.1 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

12,980 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

2,492 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

15,820 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

35 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

10 million cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

1.49 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

1.48 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

8.495 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$2.044 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$2.104 billion (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

scrap metal, wine, mineral water, ores, vehicles, fruits and nuts


Exports - partners:

Turkey 13%, US 11.2%, Azerbaijan 6.3%, UK 5.4%, Bulgaria 5.1%,
Ukraine 5%, Armenia 4.8%, Turkmenistan 4.5%, Canada 4.2% (2007)


Imports:

$4.977 billion (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

fuels, vehicles, machinery and parts, grain and other foods,
pharmaceuticals


Imports - partners:

Turkey 14%, Russia 12.3%, Ukraine 8.5%, Azerbaijan 7.3%, Germany
6.8%, US 5%, Bulgaria 4.6% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

ODA, $309.8 million (2005 est.)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$1.361 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$4.5 billion (2007)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$1.39 billion (2007)


Currency (code):

lari (GEL)


Currency code:

GEL


Exchange rates:

laris (GEL) per US dollar - 1.7 (2007), 1.78 (2006), 1.8127 (2005),
1.9167 (2004), 2.1457 (2003)


Communications
Georgia



Telephones - main lines in use:

544,000 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

2.4 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: fixed-line telecommunications network has only
limited coverage outside Tbilisi; multiple mobile-cellular providers
provide services to an increasing subscribership throughout the
country
domestic: cellular telephone networks now cover the entire country;
urban telephone density is about 20 per 100 people; rural telephone
density is about 4 per 100 people; intercity facilities include a
fiber-optic line between T'bilisi and K'ut'aisi; nationwide pager
service is available
international: country code - 995; the Georgia-Russia fiber optic
submarine cable provides connectivity to Russia; international
service is available by microwave, landline, and satellite through
the Moscow switch; international electronic mail and telex service
are available


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 7, FM 12, shortwave 4 (1998)


Radios:

3.02 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

12 (plus repeaters) (1998)


Televisions:

2.57 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.ge


Internet hosts:

27,905 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

6 (2000)


Internet users:

360,000 (2007)


Transportation
Georgia



Airports:

23 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 19
over 3,047 m: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 7
1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
914 to 1,523 m: 4
under 914 m: 2 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 4
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 2
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Heliports:

3 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 1,591 km; oil 1,253 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 1,612 km
broad gauge: 1,575 km 1.520-m gauge (1,575 electrified)
narrow gauge: 37 km 0.912-m gauge (37 electrified) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 20,329 km
paved: 7,854 km (includes 13 km of expressways)
unpaved: 12,475 km (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 191
by type: bulk carrier 18, cargo 148, carrier 2, chemical tanker 1,
container 4, liquefied gas 1, passenger/cargo 2, petroleum tanker 4,
refrigerated cargo 5, roll on/roll off 4, vehicle carrier 2
foreign-owned: 153 (China 10, Cyprus 1, Egypt 12, Germany 2, Greece
5, Hong Kong 2, Israel 2, Lebanon 4, Monaco 4, Nigeria 1, Romania
16, Russia 12, Syria 49, Turkey 14, Ukraine 18, UAE 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Bat'umi, P'ot'i


Transportation - note:

large parts of transportation network are in poor condition because
of lack of maintenance and repair


Military
Georgia



Military branches:

Georgian Armed Forces: Land Forces, Navy (includes coast guard), Air
and Air Defense Forces, National Guard (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 to 34 years of age for compulsory and voluntary active duty
military service; conscript service obligation - 18 months (2005)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,113,251
females age 16-49: 1,168,021 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 910,720
females age 16-49: 967,566 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 35,917
female: 34,566 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0.59% of GDP (2005 est.)


Military - note:

a CIS peacekeeping force of Russian troops is deployed in the
Abkhazia region of Georgia together with a UN military observer
group; a Russian peacekeeping battalion is deployed in South Ossetia


Transnational Issues
Georgia



Disputes - international:

Russia and Georgia agree on delimiting 80% of their common border,
leaving certain small, strategic segments and the maritime boundary
unresolved; OSCE observers monitor volatile areas such as the
Pankisi Gorge in the Akhmeti region and the Argun Gorge in Abkhazia;
UN Observer Mission in Georgia has maintained a peacekeeping force
in Georgia since 1993; Meshkheti Turks scattered throughout the
former Soviet Union seek to return to Georgia; boundary with Armenia
remains undemarcated; ethnic Armenian groups in Javakheti region of
Georgia seek greater autonomy from the Georgian government;
Azerbaijan and Georgia continue to discuss the alignment of their
boundary at certain crossing areas


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 1,100 (Russia)
IDPs: 220,000-240,000 (displaced from Abkhazia and South Ossetia)
(2007)


Illicit drugs:

limited cultivation of cannabis and opium poppy, mostly for domestic
consumption; used as transshipment point for opiates via Central
Asia to Western Europe and Russia



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Germany

Introduction
Germany



Background:

As Europe's largest economy and second most populous nation, Germany
is a key member of the continent's economic, political, and defense
organizations. European power struggles immersed Germany in two
devastating World Wars in the first half of the 20th century and
left the country occupied by the victorious Allied powers of the US,
UK, France, and the Soviet Union in 1945. With the advent of the
Cold War, two German states were formed in 1949: the western Federal
Republic of Germany (FRG) and the eastern German Democratic Republic
(GDR). The democratic FRG embedded itself in key Western economic
and security organizations, the EC, which became the EU, and NATO,
while the Communist GDR was on the front line of the Soviet-led
Warsaw Pact. The decline of the USSR and the end of the Cold War
allowed for German unification in 1990. Since then, Germany has
expended considerable funds to bring Eastern productivity and wages
up to Western standards. In January 1999, Germany and 10 other EU
countries introduced a common European exchange currency, the euro.


Geography
Germany



Location:

Central Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea and the North Sea, between
the Netherlands and Poland, south of Denmark


Geographic coordinates:

51 00 N, 9 00 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 357,021 sq km
land: 349,223 sq km
water: 7,798 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Montana


Land boundaries:

total: 3,621 km
border countries: Austria 784 km, Belgium 167 km, Czech Republic 646
km, Denmark 68 km, France 451 km, Luxembourg 138 km, Netherlands 577
km, Poland 456 km, Switzerland 334 km


Coastline:

2,389 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation


Climate:

temperate and marine; cool, cloudy, wet winters and summers;
occasional warm mountain (foehn) wind


Terrain:

lowlands in north, uplands in center, Bavarian Alps in south


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Neuendorf bei Wilster -3.54 m
highest point: Zugspitze 2,963 m


Natural resources:

coal, lignite, natural gas, iron ore, copper, nickel, uranium,
potash, salt, construction materials, timber, arable land


Land use:

arable land: 33.13%
permanent crops: 0.6%
other: 66.27% (2005)


Irrigated land:

4,850 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

188 cu km (2005)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 38.01 cu km/yr (12%/68%/20%)
per capita: 460 cu m/yr (2001)


Natural hazards:

flooding


Environment - current issues:

emissions from coal-burning utilities and industries contribute to
air pollution; acid rain, resulting from sulfur dioxide emissions,
is damaging forests; pollution in the Baltic Sea from raw sewage and
industrial effluents from rivers in eastern Germany; hazardous waste
disposal; government established a mechanism for ending the use of
nuclear power over the next 15 years; government working to meet EU
commitment to identify nature preservation areas in line with the
EU's Flora, Fauna, and Habitat directive


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83,
Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

strategic location on North European Plain and along the entrance to
the Baltic Sea


People
Germany



Population:

82,369,552 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 13.8% (male 5,826,066/female 5,524,568)
15-64 years: 66.2% (male 27,763,917/female 26,739,934)
65 years and over: 20% (male 6,892,743/female 9,622,320) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 43.4 years
male: 42.2 years
female: 44.7 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

-0.044% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

8.18 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

10.8 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

2.19 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.72 male(s)/female
total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 4.03 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 4.46 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 3.58 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 79.1 years
male: 76.11 years
female: 82.26 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.41 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

43,000 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 1,000 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: German(s)
adjective: German


Ethnic groups:

German 91.5%, Turkish 2.4%, other 6.1% (made up largely of Greek,
Italian, Polish, Russian, Serbo-Croatian, Spanish)


Religions:

Protestant 34%, Roman Catholic 34%, Muslim 3.7%, unaffiliated or
other 28.3%


Languages:

German


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99%
male: 99%
female: 99% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 16 years
male: 16 years
female: 16 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

4.6% of GDP (2004)


People - note:

second most populous country in Europe after Russia


Government
Germany



Country name:

conventional long form: Federal Republic of Germany
conventional short form: Germany
local long form: Bundesrepublik Deutschland
local short form: Deutschland
former: German Empire, German Republic, German Reich


Government type:

federal republic


Capital:

name: Berlin
geographic coordinates: 52 31 N, 13 24 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

16 states (Laender, singular - Land); Baden-Wuerttemberg, Bayern
(Bavaria), Berlin, Brandenburg, Bremen, Hamburg, Hessen,
Mecklenburg-Vorpommern (Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania),
Niedersachsen (Lower Saxony), Nordrhein-Westfalen (North
Rhine-Westphalia), Rheinland-Pfalz (Rhineland-Palatinate), Saarland,
Sachsen (Saxony), Sachsen-Anhalt (Saxony-Anhalt),
Schleswig-Holstein, Thueringen (Thuringia); note - Bayern, Sachsen,
and Thueringen refer to themselves as free states (Freistaaten,
singular - Freistaat)


Independence:

18 January 1871 (German Empire unification); divided into four zones
of occupation (UK, US, USSR, and later, France) in 1945 following
World War II; Federal Republic of Germany (FRG or West Germany)
proclaimed 23 May 1949 and included the former UK, US, and French
zones; German Democratic Republic (GDR or East Germany) proclaimed 7
October 1949 and included the former USSR zone; unification of West
Germany and East Germany took place 3 October 1990; all four powers
formally relinquished rights 15 March 1991


National holiday:

Unity Day, 3 October (1990)


Constitution:

23 May 1949, known as Basic Law; became constitution of the united
Germany 3 October 1990


Legal system:

civil law system with indigenous concepts; judicial review of
legislative acts in the Federal Constitutional Court; has not
accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Horst KOEHLER (since 1 July 2004)
head of government: Chancellor Angela MERKEL (since 22 November 2005)
cabinet: Cabinet or Bundesminister (Federal Ministers) appointed by
the president on the recommendation of the chancellor
elections: president elected for a five-year term (eligible for a
second term) by a Federal Convention, including all members of the
Federal Assembly and an equal number of delegates elected by the
state parliaments; election last held 23 May 2004 (next scheduled
for 23 May 2009); chancellor elected by an absolute majority of the
Federal Assembly for a four-year term; Bundestag vote for Chancellor
last held 22 November 2005 (next will follow the national elections
to be held by autumn 2009)
election results: Horst KOEHLER elected president; received 604
votes of the Federal Convention against 589 for Gesine SCHWAN;
Angela MERKEL elected chancellor; vote by Federal Assembly 397 to
202 with 12 abstentions


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament or Parlament consists of the Federal Assembly
or Bundestag (614 seats; elected by popular vote under a system
combining direct and proportional representation; a party must win
5% of the national vote or three direct mandates to gain
proportional representation and caucus recognition; to serve
four-year terms) and the Federal Council or Bundesrat (69 votes;
state governments are directly represented by votes; each has three
to six votes depending on population and are required to vote as a
block)
elections: Bundestag - last held on 18 September 2005 (next to be
held no later than autumn 2009); note - there are no elections for
the Bundesrat; composition is determined by the composition of the
state-level governments; the composition of the Bundesrat has the
potential to change any time one of the 16 states holds an election
election results: Bundestag - percent of vote by party - CDU/CSU
35.2%, SPD 34.3%, FDP 9.8%, Left 8.7%, Greens 8.1%, other 3.9%;
seats by party - CDU/CSU 225, SPD 222, FDP 61, Left 53, Greens 51,
independents 2


Judicial branch:

Federal Constitutional Court or Bundesverfassungsgericht (half the
judges are elected by the Bundestag and half by the Bundesrat)


Political parties and leaders:

Alliance '90/Greens [Claudia ROTH and Cem OEZDEMIR]; Christian
Democratic Union or CDU [Angela MERKEL]; Christian Social Union or
CSU [Horst SEEHOFER]; Free Democratic Party or FDP [Guido
WESTERWELLE]; Left Party or Die Linke [Lothar BISKY and Oskar
LAFONTAINE]; Social Democratic Party or SPD [Franz MUENTEFERING]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

other: business associations and employers' organizations;
religious, trade unions, immigrant, expellee, and veterans groups


International organization participation:

ADB (nonregional members), AfDB (nonregional members), Arctic
Council (observer), Australia Group, BIS, BSEC (observer), CBSS,
CDB, CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EMU, ESA, EU, FAO, G-5, G-7, G-8,
G-10, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO,
ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM (guest), NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD,
OPCW, OSCE, Paris Club, PCA, Schengen Convention, SECI (observer),
UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOMIG,
UNRWA, UNWTO, UPU, WADB (nonregional), WCO, WEU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
WMO, WTO, ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Klaus SCHARIOTH
chancery: 4645 Reservoir Road NW, Washington, DC 20007
telephone: [1] (202) 298-4000
FAX: [1] (202) 298-4249
consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los
Angeles, Miami, New York, San Francisco


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador William R. TIMKEN, Jr.
embassy: Pariser Platz 2, 10117 Berlin; note - new embassy opened 4
July 2008
mailing address: PSC 120, Box 1000, APO AE 09265, clayallee 170,
14195 Berlin
telephone: [49] (030) 2385174
FAX: [49] (030) 8305-1215
consulate(s) general: Duesseldorf, Frankfurt am Main, Hamburg,
Leipzig, Munich


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of black (top), red, and gold


Economy
Germany



Economy - overview:

Germany's affluent and technologically powerful economy - the fifth
largest in the world in PPP terms - showed considerable improvement
in 2007 with 2.6% growth. After a long period of stagnation with an
average growth rate of 0.7% between 2001-05 and chronically high
unemployment, stronger growth led to a considerable fall in
unemployment to about 8% near the end of 2007. Among the most
important reasons for Germany's high unemployment during the past
decade were macroeconomic stagnation, the declining level of
investment in plant and equipment, company restructuring, flat
domestic consumption, structural rigidities in the labor market,
lack of competition in the service sector, and high interest rates.
The modernization and integration of the eastern German economy
continues to be a costly long-term process, with annual transfers
from west to east amounting to roughly $80 billion. The former
government of Chancellor Gerhard SCHROEDER launched a comprehensive
set of reforms of labor market and welfare-related institutions. The
current government of Chancellor Angela MERKEL has initiated other
reform measures, such as a gradual increase in the mandatory
retirement age from 65 to 67 and measures to increase female
participation in the labor market. Germany's aging population,
combined with high chronic unemployment, has pushed social security
outlays to a level exceeding contributions, but higher government
revenues from the cyclical upturn in 2006-07 and a 3% rise in the
value-added tax pushed Germany's budget deficit well below the EU's
3% debt limit. Corporate restructuring and growing capital markets
are setting the foundations that could help Germany meet the
long-term challenges of European economic integration and
globalization, although some economists continue to argue the need
for change in inflexible labor and services markets. Growth may fall
below 2% in 2008 as the strong euro, high oil prices, tighter credit
markets, and slowing growth abroad take their toll.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$2.807 trillion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$3.322 trillion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

2.5% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$34,100 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 0.9%
industry: 30.1%
services: 69% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

43.54 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 2.8%
industry: 33.4%
services: 63.8% (1999)


Unemployment rate:

9%
note: this is the International Labor Organization's estimated rate
for international comparisons; Germany's Federal Employment Office
estimated a seasonally adjusted rate of 10.8% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

11% (2001 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 3.2%
highest 10%: 22.1% (2000)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

28 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

18.5% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $1.454 trillion
expenditures: $1.453 trillion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

64.9% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.3% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

NA


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

5.96% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

NA
note: see entry for the European Union for money supply in the Euro
Area; the European Central Bank (ECB) controls monetary policy for
the 15 members of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU); individual
members of the EMU do not control the quantity of money and quasi
money circulating within their own borders


Stock of quasi money:

NA


Stock of domestic credit:

$5.081 trillion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

potatoes, wheat, barley, sugar beets, fruit, cabbages; cattle, pigs,
poultry


Industries:

among the world's largest and most technologically advanced
producers of iron, steel, coal, cement, chemicals, machinery,
vehicles, machine tools, electronics, food and beverages,
shipbuilding, textiles


Industrial production growth rate:

5.2% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

594.7 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

549.1 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

62.51 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

46.13 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 61.8%
hydro: 4.2%
nuclear: 29.9%
other: 4.1% (2001)


Oil - production:

148,100 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

2.456 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

563,400 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

3.026 million bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

367 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

17.96 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

97.44 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

12.22 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

88.35 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

254.8 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$254.5 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$1.354 trillion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

machinery, vehicles, chemicals, metals and manufactures, foodstuffs,
textiles


Exports - partners:

France 9.7%, US 7.5%, UK 7.3%, Italy 6.7%, Netherlands 6.4%, Austria
5.4%, Belgium 5.3%, Spain 5% (2007)


Imports:

$1.075 trillion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery, vehicles, chemicals, foodstuffs, textiles, metals


Imports - partners:

Netherlands 12%, France 8.6%, Belgium 7.8%, China 6.2%, Italy 5.8%,
UK 5.6%, US 4.5%, Austria 4.4% (2007)


Economic aid - donor:

ODA, $10.44 billion (2006)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$136.2 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$4.489 trillion (30 June 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$855.8 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$1.218 trillion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$1.221 trillion (2005)


Currency (code):

euro (EUR)


Currency code:

EUR


Exchange rates:

euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006), 0.8041
(2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)


Communications
Germany



Telephones - main lines in use:

53.75 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

97.151 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: Germany has one of the world's most
technologically advanced telecommunications systems; as a result of
intensive capital expenditures since reunification, the formerly
backward system of the eastern part of the country, dating back to
World War II, has been modernized and integrated with that of the
western part
domestic: Germany is served by an extensive system of automatic
telephone exchanges connected by modern networks of fiber-optic
cable, coaxial cable, microwave radio relay, and a domestic
satellite system; cellular telephone service is widely available,
expanding rapidly, and includes roaming service to many foreign
countries
international: country code - 49; Germany's international service is
excellent worldwide, consisting of extensive land and undersea cable
facilities as well as earth stations in the Inmarsat, Intelsat,
Eutelsat, and Intersputnik satellite systems (2001)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 51, FM 787, shortwave 4 (1998)


Radios:

77.8 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

373 (plus 8,042 repeaters) (1995)


Televisions:

51.4 million (1998)


Internet country code:

.de


Internet hosts:

22.606 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

200 (2001)


Internet users:

42.5 million (2007)


Transportation
Germany



Airports:

550 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 331
over 3,047 m: 14
2,438 to 3,047 m: 52
1,524 to 2,437 m: 58
914 to 1,523 m: 72
under 914 m: 135 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 219
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
914 to 1,523 m: 34
under 914 m: 181 (2007)


Heliports:

28 (2007)


Pipelines:

condensate 37 km; gas 25,094 km; oil 3,546 km; refined products
3,828 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 48,215 km
standard gauge: 47,962 km 1.435-m gauge (20,278 km electrified)
narrow gauge: 229 km 1.000-m gauge (16 km electrified); 24 km
0.750-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 644,480 km
paved: 644,480 km (includes 12,400 km of expressways)
note: includes local roads (2006)


Waterways:

7,467 km
note: Rhine River carries most goods; Main-Danube Canal links North
Sea and Black Sea (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 393
by type: bulk carrier 2, cargo 43, chemical tanker 13, container
284, liquefied gas 5, passenger 5, passenger/cargo 27, petroleum
tanker 11, roll on/roll off 3
foreign-owned: 11 (China 2, Cyprus 2, Denmark 1, Finland 4,
Netherlands 1, Sweden 1)
registered in other countries: 2,998 (Antigua and Barbuda 941,
Australia 2, Bahamas 44, Bermuda 22, Brazil 6, Bulgaria 63, Burma 1,
Canada 3, Cayman Islands 15, Cyprus 189, Denmark 9, Denmark 1,
Estonia 1, Finland 1, France 1, Georgia 2, Gibraltar 129, Hong Kong
6, India 2, Indonesia 1, Isle of Man 56, Jamaica 4, Liberia 849,
Luxembourg 5, Malaysia 1, Malta 91, Marshall Islands 235, Mongolia
4, Morocco 2, Netherlands 75, Netherlands Antilles 43, Norway 1, NZ
1, Panama 44, Portugal 2, Portugal 18, Russia 1, Saint Vincent and
the Grenadines 3, Singapore 24, Slovakia 3, Spain 1, Spain 4, Sri
Lanka 5, Sweden 5, Turkey 1, UK 76, US 5) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Bremen, Bremerhaven, Duisburg, Hamburg, Karlsruhe, Lubeck, Rostock,
Wilhemshaven


Military
Germany



Military branches:

Federal Armed Forces (Bundeswehr): Army (Heer), Navy (Deutsche
Marine, includes naval air arm), Air Force (Luftwaffe), Central
Medical Service (Zentraler Sanitaetsdienst) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age (conscripts serve a 9-month tour of compulsory
military service) (2004)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 19,594,118
females age 16-49: 18,543,955 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 15,906,930
females age 16-49: 15,051,183 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 442,972
female: 420,801 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.5% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Germany



Disputes - international:

none


Illicit drugs:

source of precursor chemicals for South American cocaine processors;
transshipment point for and consumer of Southwest Asian heroin,
Latin American cocaine, and European-produced synthetic drugs; major
financial center



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Ghana

Introduction
Ghana



Background:

Formed from the merger of the British colony of the Gold Coast and
the Togoland trust territory, Ghana in 1957 became the first
sub-Saharan country in colonial Africa to gain its independence.
Ghana endured a long series of coups before Lt. Jerry RAWLINGS took
power in 1981 and banned political parties. After approving a new
constitution and restoring multiparty politics in 1992, RAWLINGS won
presidential elections in 1992 and 1996, but was constitutionally
prevented from running for a third term in 2000. John KUFUOR
succeeded him and was reelected in 2004. Kufuor is constitutionally
barred from running for a third term in upcoming Presidential
elections, which are scheduled for December 2008.


Geography
Ghana



Location:

Western Africa, bordering the Gulf of Guinea, between Cote d'Ivoire
and Togo


Geographic coordinates:

8 00 N, 2 00 W


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 239,460 sq km
land: 230,940 sq km
water: 8,520 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Oregon


Land boundaries:

total: 2,094 km
border countries: Burkina Faso 549 km, Cote d'Ivoire 668 km, Togo
877 km


Coastline:

539 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; warm and comparatively dry along southeast coast; hot and
humid in southwest; hot and dry in north


Terrain:

mostly low plains with dissected plateau in south-central area


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Mount Afadjato 880 m


Natural resources:

gold, timber, industrial diamonds, bauxite, manganese, fish, rubber,
hydropower, petroleum, silver, salt, limestone


Land use:

arable land: 17.54%
permanent crops: 9.22%
other: 73.24% (2005)


Irrigated land:

310 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

53.2 cu km (2001)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.98 cu km/yr (24%/10%/66%)
per capita: 44 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

dry, dusty, northeastern harmattan winds occur from January to
March; droughts


Environment - current issues:

recurrent drought in north severely affects agricultural activities;
deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion; poaching and habitat
destruction threatens wildlife populations; water pollution;
inadequate supplies of potable water


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Marine Life Conservation


Geography - note:

Lake Volta is the world's largest artificial lake


People
Ghana



Population:

23,382,848
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 37.8% (male 4,470,382/female 4,360,359)
15-64 years: 58.7% (male 6,852,363/female 6,866,470)
65 years and over: 3.6% (male 386,150/female 447,124) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 20.4 years
male: 20.2 years
female: 20.7 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.928% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

29.22 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

9.39 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-0.55 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.86 male(s)/female
total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 52.31 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 56.64 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 47.85 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 59.49 years
male: 58.65 years
female: 60.35 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

3.78 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

3.1% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

350,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

30,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: malaria and yellow fever
water contact disease: schistosomiasis
respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis
note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Ghanaian(s)
adjective: Ghanaian


Ethnic groups:

Akan 45.3%, Mole-Dagbon 15.2%, Ewe 11.7%, Ga-Dangme 7.3%, Guan 4%,
Gurma 3.6%, Grusi 2.6%, Mande-Busanga 1%, other tribes 1.4%, other
7.8% (2000 census)


Religions:

Christian 68.8% (Pentecostal/Charismatic 24.1%, Protestant 18.6%,
Catholic 15.1%, other 11%), Muslim 15.9%, traditional 8.5%, other
0.7%, none 6.1% (2000 census)


Languages:

Asante 14.8%, Ewe 12.7%, Fante 9.9%, Boron (Brong) 4.6%, Dagomba
4.3%, Dangme 4.3%, Dagarte (Dagaba) 3.7%, Akyem 3.4%, Ga 3.4%,
Akuapem 2.9%, other 36.1% (includes English (official)) (2000 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 57.9%
male: 66.4%
female: 49.8% (2000 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 9 years
male: 10 years
female: 9 years (2007)


Education expenditures:

5.4% of GDP (2005)


Government
Ghana



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Ghana
conventional short form: Ghana
former: Gold Coast


Government type:

constitutional democracy


Capital:

name: Accra
geographic coordinates: 5 33 N, 0 13 W
time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

10 regions; Ashanti, Brong-Ahafo, Central, Eastern, Greater Accra,
Northern, Upper East, Upper West, Volta, Western


Independence:

6 March 1957 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 6 March (1957)


Constitution:

approved 28 April 1992


Legal system:

based on English common law and customary law; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President John Agyekum KUFUOR (since 7 January
2001); Vice President Alhaji Aliu MAHAMA (since 7 January 2001);
note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government
head of government: President John Agyekum KUFUOR (since 7 January
2001); Vice President Alhaji Aliu MAHAMA (since 7 January 2001)
cabinet: Council of Ministers; president nominates members subject
to approval by Parliament
elections: president and vice president elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for four-year terms (eligible for a second term);
election last held 7 December 2004 (next to be held 7 December 2008)
election results: John Agyekum KUFUOR reelected president in
election; percent of vote - John KUFUOR 52.4%, John ATTA-MILLS 44.6%


Legislative branch:

unicameral Parliament (230 seats; members are elected by direct,
popular vote to serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 7 December 2004 (next to be held 7 December
2008)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
NPP 128, NDC 94, PNC 4, CPP 3, independent 1


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court


Political parties and leaders:

Convention People's Party or CPP [Ladi NYLANDER]; Democratic Freedom
Party or DFP [Alhaji Abudu Rahman ISSAKAH]; Every Ghanaian Living
Everywhere or EGLE; Great Consolidated Popular Party or GCPP [Dan
LARTEY]; National Democratic Congress or NDC [Dr. Kwabena ADJEI];
New Patriotic Party or NPP [Peter MAC-MANU]; People's National
Convention or PNC [Alhaji Amed RAMADAN]; Reform Party [Kyeretwie
OPUKU]; United Renaissance Party or URP [Charles WAYO]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Christian Aid (water rights); Committee for Joint Action or CJA
(education reform); National Coalition Against the Privatization of
Water or CAP (water rights); Oxfam (water rights); Public Citizen
(water rights); Students Coalition Against EPA [Kwabena Ososukene
OKAI] (education reform); Third World Network (education reform)


International organization participation:

ACP, AfDB, AU, C, ECOWAS, FAO, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol,
IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURCAT, MINURSO, MONUC,
NAM, OAS (observer), OIF (associate member), OPCW, UN, UNAMID,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNITAR, UNMIL, UNOCI, UNOMIG,
UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Dr. Kwame BAWUAH-EDUSEI
chancery: 3512 International Drive NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 785-1379
FAX: [1] (202) 785-1430
consulate(s) general: New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Donald G. TEITELBAUM
embassy: 24 4th Circular Rd. Cantonments, Accra
mailing address: P. O. Box 194, Accra
telephone: [233] (21) 741-000
FAX: [233] (21) 741-389


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of red (top), yellow, and green with a
large black five-pointed star centered in the yellow band; uses the
popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia; similar to the flag of
Bolivia, which has a coat of arms centered in the yellow band


Economy
Ghana



Economy - overview:

Well endowed with natural resources, Ghana has roughly twice the per
capita output of the poorest countries in West Africa. Even so,
Ghana remains heavily dependent on international financial and
technical assistance. Gold and cocoa production, and individual
remittances, are major sources of foreign exchange. The domestic
economy continues to revolve around agriculture, which accounts for
about 35% of GDP and employs about 55% of the work force, mainly
small landholders. Ghana opted for debt relief under the Heavily
Indebted Poor Country (HIPC) program in 2002, and is also benefiting
from the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative that took effect in
2006. Thematic priorities under its current Growth and Poverty
Reduction Strategy, which also provides the framework for
development partner assistance, are: macroeconomic stability;
private sector competitiveness; human resource development; and good
governance and civic responsibility. Sound macro-economic management
along with high prices for gold and cocoa helped sustain GDP growth
in 2007. Ghana signed a Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC)
Compact in 2006, which aims to assist in transforming Ghana's
agricultural sector.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$31.13 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$14.86 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

5.5% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$1,400 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 37.3%
industry: 25.3%
services: 37.5% (2006 est.)


Labor force:

11.29 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 56%
industry: 15%
services: 29% (2005 est.)


Unemployment rate:

11% (2000 est.)


Population below poverty line:

28.5% (2007 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.2%
highest 10%: 30.1% (1999)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

39.4 (2005-06)


Investment (gross fixed):

31.6% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $4.262 billion
expenditures: $5.481 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

58.5% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

10.7% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

13.5% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

NA


Stock of money:

$2.179 billion (31 December 2006)


Stock of quasi money:

$2.174 billion (31 December 2006)


Stock of domestic credit:

$4.173 billion (31 December 2006)


Agriculture - products:

cocoa, rice, cassava (tapioca), peanuts, corn, shea nuts, bananas;
timber


Industries:

mining, lumbering, light manufacturing, aluminum smelting, food
processing, cement, small commercial ship building


Industrial production growth rate:

7.8% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

8.204 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

6.76 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

755 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - imports:

629 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 5%
hydro: 95%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

7,571 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

49,300 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

5,709 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

45,520 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

15 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

22.65 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$1.549 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$4.162 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

gold, cocoa, timber, tuna, bauxite, aluminum, manganese ore,
diamonds, horticulture


Exports - partners:

Netherlands 11%, UK 9%, France 6.2%, US 5.9%, Germany 4.6%, Belgium
4.4% (2007)


Imports:

$8.053 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

capital equipment, petroleum, foodstuffs


Imports - partners:

Nigeria 15.1%, China 14.9%, UK 5.2%, US 5.1% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$1.316 billion in loans and grants (2007)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$2.204 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$4.891 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$NA


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$13.01 billion (2007)


Currency (code):

Ghana cedi (GHC)


Currency code:

GHC


Exchange rates:

cedis (GHC) per US dollar - 0.95 (2007), 9,174.8 (2006), 9,072.5
(2005), 9,004.6 (2004), 8,677.4 (2003)
note: in 2007 Ghana revalued its currency with 10,000 old cedis
equal to 1 new cedis


Communications
Ghana



Telephones - main lines in use:

376,500 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

7.604 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: outdated and unreliable fixed-line
infrastructure heavily concentrated in Accra; competition among
multiple mobile-cellular providers has spurred growth with
subscribership about 35 per 100 persons and rising
domestic: primarily microwave radio relay; wireless local loop has
been installed
international: country code - 233; landing point for the SAT-3/WASC
fiber-optic submarine cable that provides connectivity to Europe and
Asia; satellite earth stations - 4 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean);
microwave radio relay link to Panaftel system connects Ghana to its
neighbors (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 0, FM 86, shortwave 3 (2007)


Radios:

12.5 million (2001)


Television broadcast stations:

7 (2007)


Televisions:

1.9 million (2001)


Internet country code:

.gh


Internet hosts:

24,018 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

12 (2000)


Internet users:

650,000 (2007)


Transportation
Ghana



Airports:

12 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 7
over 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
914 to 1,523 m: 2 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 5
914 to 1,523 m: 3
under 914 m: 2 (2007)


Pipelines:

oil 13 km; refined products 316 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 953 km
narrow gauge: 953 km 1.067-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 62,221 km
paved: 9,955 km
unpaved: 52,266 km (2006)


Waterways:

1,293 km
note: 168 km for launches and lighters on Volta, Ankobra, and Tano
rivers; 1,125 km of arterial and feeder waterways on Lake Volta
(2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 4
by type: petroleum tanker 1, refrigerated cargo 3
foreign-owned: 1 (Brazil 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Tema


Military
Ghana



Military branches:

Ghanaian Army, Ghanaian Navy, Ghanaian Air Force (2007)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service; no conscription
(2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 5,802,096
females age 16-49: 5,729,939 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 3,737,481
females age 16-49: 3,729,699 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 273,265
female: 267,204 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0.8% of GDP (2006 est.)


Transnational Issues
Ghana



Disputes - international:

Ghana struggles to accommodate returning nationals who worked in the
cocoa plantations and escaped fighting in Cote d'Ivoire


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 35,653 (Liberia); 8,517 (Togo) (2007)


Illicit drugs:

illicit producer of cannabis for the international drug trade; major
transit hub for Southwest and Southeast Asian heroin and, to a
lesser extent, South American cocaine destined for Europe and the
US; widespread crime and money laundering problem, but the lack of a
well developed financial infrastructure limits the country's utility
as a money laundering center; significant domestic cocaine and
cannabis use



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Gibraltar

Introduction
Gibraltar



Background:

Strategically important, Gibraltar was reluctantly ceded to Great
Britain by Spain in the 1713 Treaty of Utrecht; the British garrison
was formally declared a colony in 1830. In a referendum held in
1967, Gibraltarians voted overwhelmingly to remain a British
dependency. The subsequent granting of autonomy in 1969 by the UK
led to Spain closing the border and severing all communication
links. A series of talks were held by the UK and Spain between 1997
and 2002 on establishing temporary joint sovereignty over Gibraltar.
In response to these talks, the Gibraltar Government called a
referendum in late 2002 in which the majority of citizens voted
overwhelmingly against any sharing of sovereignty with Spain. Since
the referendum, tripartite talks on other issues have been held with
Spain, the UK, and Gibraltar, and in September 2006 a three-way
agreement was signed. Spain agreed to remove restrictions on air
movements, to speed up customs procedures, to implement
international telephone dialing, and to allow mobile roaming
agreements. Britain agreed to pay increased pensions to Spaniards
who had been employed in Gibraltar before the border closed. Spain
will be allowed to open a cultural institute from which the Spanish
flag will fly. A new noncolonial constitution came into effect in
2007, but the UK retains responsibility for defense, foreign
relations, internal security, and financial stability.


Geography
Gibraltar



Location:

Southwestern Europe, bordering the Strait of Gibraltar, which links
the Mediterranean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean, on the southern
coast of Spain


Geographic coordinates:

36 08 N, 5 21 W


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 6.5 sq km
land: 6.5 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

a little less than one half the size of Rhode Island


Land boundaries:

total: 1.2 km
border countries: Spain 1.2 km


Coastline:

12 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 3 nm


Climate:

Mediterranean with mild winters and warm summers


Terrain:

a narrow coastal lowland borders the Rock of Gibraltar


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Mediterranean Sea 0 m
highest point: Rock of Gibraltar 426 m


Natural resources:

none


Land use:

arable land: 0%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 100% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

NA


Environment - current issues:

limited natural freshwater resources: large concrete or natural rock
water catchments collect rainwater (no longer used for drinking
water) and adequate desalination plant


Geography - note:

strategic location on Strait of Gibraltar that links the North
Atlantic Ocean and Mediterranean Sea


People
Gibraltar



Population:

28,002 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 16.9% (male 2,426/female 2,309)
15-64 years: 66.6% (male 9,507/female 9,153)
65 years and over: 16.5% (male 2,103/female 2,504) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 40.3 years
male: 39.8 years
female: 40.7 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.125% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

10.71 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

9.46 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.84 male(s)/female
total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 4.91 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 5.46 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 4.33 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 80.06 years
male: 77.17 years
female: 83.09 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.65 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Gibraltarian(s)
adjective: Gibraltar


Ethnic groups:

Spanish, Italian, English, Maltese, Portuguese, German, North
Africans


Religions:

Roman Catholic 78.1%, Church of England 7%, other Christian 3.2%,
Muslim 4%, Jewish 2.1%, Hindu 1.8%, other or unspecified 0.9%, none
2.9% (2001 census)


Languages:

English (used in schools and for official purposes), Spanish,
Italian, Portuguese


Literacy:

definition: NA
total population: above 80%
male: NA
female: NA


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Gibraltar



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Gibraltar


Dependency status:

overseas territory of the UK


Government type:

NA


Capital:

name: Gibraltar
geographic coordinates: 36 08 N, 5 21 W
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


Independence:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


National holiday:

National Day, 10 September (1967); note - day of the national
referendum to decide whether to remain with the UK or go with Spain


Constitution:

5 June 2006; came into force 2 January 2007


Legal system:

the laws of the UK, where applicable, apply


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal; and British citizens who have been
residents six months or more


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by Governor Sir Robert FULTON (since 27 October 2006)
head of government: Chief Minister Peter CARUANA (since 17 May 1996)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed from among the 17 elected
members of the Parliament by the governor in consultation with the
chief minister
elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor appointed by the
monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the majority
party or the leader of the majority coalition is usually appointed
chief minister by the governor


Legislative branch:

unicameral Parliament (18 seats: 17 members elected by popular vote,
1 for the Speaker appointed by Parliament; to serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 11 October 2007 (next to be held not later than
October 2011)
election results: percent of vote by party - GSD 49.3%, GSLP 31.8%,
Gibraltar Liberal Party 13.6%; seats by party - GSD 10, GSLP 4,
Gibraltar Liberal Party 3


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court; Court of Appeal


Political parties and leaders:

Gibraltar Liberal Party [Joseph GARCIA]; Gibraltar Social Democrats
or GSD [Peter CARUANA]; Gibraltar Socialist Labor Party or GSLP
[Joseph John BOSSANO]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Chamber of Commerce; Gibraltar Representatives Organization; Women's
Association


International organization participation:

Interpol (subbureau), UPU


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


Flag description:

two horizontal bands of white (top, double width) and red with a
three-towered red castle in the center of the white band; hanging
from the castle gate is a gold key centered in the red band


Economy
Gibraltar



Economy - overview:

Self-sufficient Gibraltar benefits from an extensive shipping trade,
offshore banking, and its position as an international conference
center. The British military presence has been sharply reduced and
now contributes about 7% to the local economy, compared with 60% in
1984. The financial sector, tourism (almost 5 million visitors in
1998), shipping services fees, and duties on consumer goods also
generate revenue. The financial sector, the shipping sector, and
tourism each contribute 25%-30% of GDP. Telecommunications accounts
for another 10%. In recent years, Gibraltar has seen major
structural change from a public to a private sector economy, but
changes in government spending still have a major impact on the
level of employment.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$1.066 billion (2005 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$1.066 billion (2005 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

7% (2005 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$38,200 (2005 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: NA%
industry: NA%
services: NA%


Labor force:

12,690 (including non-Gibraltar laborers) (2001)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: negligible
industry: 40%
services: 60% (2001)


Unemployment rate:

3% (2005 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $455.1 million
expenditures: $423.6 million (2005 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 July - 30 June


Public debt:

15.7% of GDP (2005 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.9% (2005)


Agriculture - products:

none


Industries:

tourism, banking and finance, ship repairing, tobacco


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

142 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

142 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

22,620 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

25,080 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Exports:

$271 million f.o.b. (2004 est.)


Exports - commodities:

(principally reexports) petroleum 51%, manufactured goods 41%, other
8%


Exports - partners:

UK 30.8%, Spain 22.7%, Germany 13.7%, Turkmenistan 10.4%,
Switzerland 8.3%, Italy 6.7% (2006)


Imports:

$2.967 billion c.i.f. (2004 est.)


Imports - commodities:

fuels, manufactured goods, and foodstuffs


Imports - partners:

Spain 23.4%, Russia 12.3%, Italy 12%, UK 9%, France 8.9%,
Netherlands 6.8%, US 4.7% (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$NA


Debt - external:

$NA


Currency (code):

Gibraltar pound (GIP)


Currency code:

GIP


Exchange rates:

Gibraltar pounds (GIP) per US dollar - 0.4993 (2007), 0.5434 (2006),
0.5504 (2005), 0.5462 (2004), 0.6125 (2003)
note: the Gibraltar pound is at par with the British pound


Communications
Gibraltar



Telephones - main lines in use:

24,512 (2002)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

9,797 (2002)


Telephone system:

general assessment: adequate, automatic domestic system and adequate
international facilities
domestic: automatic exchange facilities
international: country code - 350; radiotelephone; microwave radio
relay; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 5, shortwave 0 (1998)


Radios:

37,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (plus 3 repeaters) (1997)


Televisions:

10,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.gi


Internet hosts:

1,904 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

2 (2000)


Internet users:

6,200 (2002)


Transportation
Gibraltar



Airports:

1 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 29 km
paved: 29 km (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 240
by type: bulk carrier 5, cargo 125, chemical tanker 51, container
43, passenger 1, petroleum tanker 10, roll on/roll off 5
foreign-owned: 225 (Belgium 2, Cyprus 1, Denmark 7, Finland 3,
Germany 129, Greece 6, Iceland 1, Morocco 4, Netherlands 21, Norway
33, Sweden 13, UAE 3, UK 2)
registered in other countries: 7 (Liberia 5, Panama 1, Saint Vincent
and the Grenadines 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Gibraltar


Military
Gibraltar



Military branches:

Royal Gibraltar Regiment


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 6,308 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 5,244 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 190
female: 185 (2008 est.)


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of the UK; the Royal Gibraltar
Regiment replaced the last British regular infantry forces in 1992


Transnational Issues
Gibraltar



Disputes - international:

in 2002, Gibraltar residents voted overwhelmingly by referendum to
reject any "shared sovereignty" arrangement; the government of
Gibraltar insists on equal participation in talks between the UK and
Spain; Spain disapproves of UK plans to grant Gibraltar even greater
autonomy



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Greece

Introduction
Greece



Background:

Greece achieved independence from the Ottoman Empire in 1829. During
the second half of the 19th century and the first half of the 20th
century, it gradually added neighboring islands and territories,
most with Greek-speaking populations. In World War II, Greece was
first invaded by Italy (1940) and subsequently occupied by Germany
(1941-44); fighting endured in a protracted civil war between
supporters of the king and Communist rebels. Following the latter's
defeat in 1949, Greece joined NATO in 1952. A military dictatorship,
which in 1967 suspended many political liberties and forced the king
to flee the country, lasted seven years. The 1974 democratic
elections and a referendum created a parliamentary republic and
abolished the monarchy. In 1981, Greece joined the EC (now the EU);
it became the 12th member of the European Economic and Monetary
Union in 2001.


Geography
Greece



Location:

Southern Europe, bordering the Aegean Sea, Ionian Sea, and the
Mediterranean Sea, between Albania and Turkey


Geographic coordinates:

39 00 N, 22 00 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 131,940 sq km
land: 130,800 sq km
water: 1,140 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Alabama


Land boundaries:

total: 1,228 km
border countries: Albania 282 km, Bulgaria 494 km, Turkey 206 km,
Macedonia 246 km


Coastline:

13,676 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation


Climate:

temperate; mild, wet winters; hot, dry summers


Terrain:

mostly mountains with ranges extending into the sea as peninsulas or
chains of islands


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Mediterranean Sea 0 m
highest point: Mount Olympus 2,917 m


Natural resources:

lignite, petroleum, iron ore, bauxite, lead, zinc, nickel,
magnesite, marble, salt, hydropower potential


Land use:

arable land: 20.45%
permanent crops: 8.59%
other: 70.96% (2005)


Irrigated land:

14,530 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

72 cu km (2005)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 8.7 cu km/yr (16%/3%/81%)
per capita: 782 cu m/yr (1997)


Natural hazards:

severe earthquakes


Environment - current issues:

air pollution; water pollution


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Sulfur 94, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol,
Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds


Geography - note:

strategic location dominating the Aegean Sea and southern approach
to Turkish Straits; a peninsular country, possessing an archipelago
of about 2,000 islands


People
Greece



Population:

10,722,816 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 14.3% (male 789,137/female 742,469)
15-64 years: 66.6% (male 3,568,101/female 3,575,572)
65 years and over: 19.1% (male 898,337/female 1,149,200) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 41.5 years
male: 40.4 years
female: 42.6 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.146% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

9.54 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

10.42 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

2.33 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.78 male(s)/female
total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 5.25 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 5.77 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 4.7 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 79.52 years
male: 76.98 years
female: 82.21 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.36 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.2% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

9,100 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 100 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Greek(s)
adjective: Greek


Ethnic groups:

population: Greek 93%, other (foreign citizens) 7% (2001 census)
note: percents represent citizenship, since Greece does not collect
data on ethnicity


Religions:

Greek Orthodox 98%, Muslim 1.3%, other 0.7%


Languages:

Greek 99% (official), other 1% (includes English and French)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 96%
male: 97.8%
female: 94.2% (2001 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 17 years
male: 17 years
female: 17 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

4.4% of GDP (2005)


Government
Greece



Country name:

conventional long form: Hellenic Republic
conventional short form: Greece
local long form: Elliniki Dhimokratia
local short form: Ellas or Ellada
former: Kingdom of Greece


Government type:

parliamentary republic


Capital:

name: Athens
geographic coordinates: 37 59 N, 23 44 E
time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

51 prefectures (nomoi, singular - nomos) and 1 autonomous region*;
Achaia, Agion Oros* (Mt. Athos), Aitolia kai Akarnania, Argolis,
Arkadia, Arta, Attiki, Chalkidiki, Chanion, Chios, Dodekanisos,
Drama, Evros, Evrytania, Evvoia, Florina, Fokidos, Fthiotis,
Grevena, Ileia, Imathia, Ioannina, Irakleion, Karditsa, Kastoria,
Kavala, Kefallinia, Kerkyra, Kilkis, Korinthia, Kozani, Kyklades,
Lakonia, Larisa, Lasithi, Lefkas, Lesvos, Magnisia, Messinia, Pella,
Pieria, Preveza, Rethynnis, Rodopi, Samos, Serrai, Thesprotia,
Thessaloniki, Trikala, Voiotia, Xanthi, Zakynthos


Independence:

1829 (from the Ottoman Empire)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 25 March (1821)


Constitution:

11 June 1975; amended March 1986 and April 2001


Legal system:

based on codified Roman law; judiciary divided into civil, criminal,
and administrative courts; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with
reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal and compulsory


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Karolos PAPOULIAS (since 12 March 2005)
head of government: Prime Minister Konstandinos (Kostas) KARAMANLIS
(since 7 March 2004)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president on the recommendation of
the prime minister
elections: president elected by parliament for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 8 February 2005
(next to be held by February 2010); according to the Greek
Constitution, presidents may only serve two terms; president
appoints leader of the party securing plurality of vote in election
to become prime minister and form a government
election results: Karolos PAPOULIAS elected president; number of
parliamentary votes, 279 out of 300


Legislative branch:

unicameral Parliament or Vouli ton Ellinon (300 seats; members are
elected by direct popular vote to serve four-year terms)
elections: elections last held 16 September 2007 (next to be held by
2011)
election results: percent of vote by party - ND 41.8%, PASOK 38.1%,
KKE 8.2%, Synaspismos 5%, LAOS 3.8%, other 3.1%; seats by party - ND
152, PASOK 102, KKE 22, Synaspismos 14, LAOS 10


Judicial branch:

Supreme Judicial Court; Special Supreme Tribunal; all judges
appointed for life by the president after consultation with a
judicial council


Political parties and leaders:

Coalition of the Left and Progress (Synaspismos) [Alekos ALAVANOS];
Communist Party of Greece or KKE [Aleka PAPARIGA]; New Democracy or
ND (conservative) [Konstandinos KARAMANLIS]; Panhellenic Socialist
Movement or PASOK [Yiorgos PAPANDREOU]; Popular Orthodox Rally or
LAOS [Yeoryios KARATZAFERIS]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Civil Servants Confederation or ADEDY [Spyros PAPASPYROS];
Federation of Greek Industries or SEV [Dimitris DASKALOPOULOS];
General Confederation of Greek Workers or GSEE [Ioannis PANAGOPOULOS]


International organization participation:

Australia Group, BIS, BSEC, CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EMU, ESA, EU,
FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU,
ITUC, MIGA, MINURSO, NAM (guest), NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer),
OECD, OIF, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, Schengen Convention, SECI, UN, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNMIS, UNOMIG, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WEU,
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Alexandros P. MALLIAS
chancery: 2217 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 939-1300
FAX: [1] (202) 939-1324
consulate(s) general: Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, New York, San
Francisco, Tampa
consulate(s): Atlanta, Houston


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Daniel V. SPECKHARD
embassy: 91 Vasilisis Sophias Avenue, 10160 Athens
mailing address: PSC 108, APO AE 09842-0108
telephone: [30] (210) 721-2951
FAX: [30] (210) 645-6282
consulate(s) general: Thessaloniki


Flag description:

nine equal horizontal stripes of blue alternating with white; there
is a blue square in the upper hoist-side corner bearing a white
cross; the cross symbolizes Greek Orthodoxy, the established
religion of the country


Economy
Greece



Economy - overview:

Greece has a capitalist economy with the public sector accounting
for about 40% of GDP and with per capita GDP at least 75% of the
leading euro-zone economies. Tourism provides 15% of GDP. Immigrants
make up nearly one-fifth of the work force, mainly in agricultural
and unskilled jobs. Greece is a major beneficiary of EU aid, equal
to about 3.3% of annual GDP. The Greek economy grew by nearly 4.0%
per year between 2003 and 2007, due partly to infrastructural
spending related to the 2004 Athens Olympic Games, and in part to an
increased availability of credit, which has sustained record levels
of consumer spending. Greece violated the EU's Growth and Stability
Pact budget deficit criteria of no more than 3% of GDP from 2001 to
2006, but finally met that criteria in 2007. Public debt, inflation,
and unemployment are above the euro-zone average, but are falling.
The Greek Government continues to grapple with cutting government
spending, reducing the size of the public sector, and reforming the
labor and pension systems, in the face of often vocal opposition
from the country's powerful labor unions and the general public. The
economy remains an important domestic political issue in Greece and,
while the ruling New Democracy government has had some success in
improving economic growth and reducing the budget deficit, Athens
faces long-term challenges in its effort to continue its economic
reforms, especially social security reform and privatization.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$327.6 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$314.6 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

4% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$30,600 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 3.6%
industry: 24.5%
services: 71.9% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

4.92 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 12%
industry: 20%
services: 68% (2004 est.)


Unemployment rate:

8.3% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.5%
highest 10%: 26% (2000 est.)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

33 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

25.7% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $115.2 billion
expenditures: $124.1 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

89.5% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.9% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

NA


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

7.71% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

NA
note: see entry for the European Union for money supply in the Euro
Area; the European Central Bank (ECB) controls monetary policy for
the 15 members of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU); individual
members of the EMU do not control the quantity of money and quasi
money circulating within their own borders


Stock of quasi money:

NA


Stock of domestic credit:

$392.4 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

wheat, corn, barley, sugar beets, olives, tomatoes, wine, tobacco,
potatoes; beef, dairy products


Industries:

tourism, food and tobacco processing, textiles, chemicals, metal
products; mining, petroleum


Industrial production growth rate:

2.2% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

59.33 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

55.98 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

269 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

5.894 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 94.5%
hydro: 3.8%
nuclear: 0%
other: 1.7% (2001)


Oil - production:

4,265 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

441,400 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

125,100 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

527,200 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

10 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

24 million cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

4.069 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

4.1 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

1.982 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$44.4 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$23.91 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

food and beverages, manufactured goods, petroleum products,
chemicals, textiles


Exports - partners:

Germany 11.6%, Italy 10.8%, Cyprus 6.6%, Bulgaria 6.5%, UK 5.5%,
Romania 4.5%, France 4.2%, US 4.2% (2007)


Imports:

$80.79 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery, transport equipment, fuels, chemicals


Imports - partners:

Germany 12.9%, Italy 11.7%, Russia 5.6%, France 5.6%, China 5%,
Netherlands 5% (2007)


Economic aid - donor:

$424 million (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$8 billion annually from EU (2000-06); Greece will receive about
$3.8 billion per year between 2007-13 under the EU's Community
Support Funds IV


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$3.658 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$86.72 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$52.84 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$30.8 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$145 billion (2005)


Currency (code):

euro (EUR)


Currency code:

EUR


Exchange rates:

euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006), 0.8041
(2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)


Communications
Greece



Telephones - main lines in use:

6.227 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

11.997 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: adequate, modern networks reach all areas; good
mobile telephone and international service
domestic: microwave radio relay trunk system; extensive open-wire
connections; submarine cable to offshore islands
international: country code - 30; landing point for the SEA-ME-WE-3
optical telecommunications submarine cable that provides links to
Europe, Middle East, and Asia; a number of smaller submarine cables
provide connectivity to various parts of Europe, the Middle East,
and Cyprus; tropospheric scatter; satellite earth stations - 4 (2
Intelsat - 1 Atlantic Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean, 1 Eutelsat, and 1
Inmarsat - Indian Ocean region)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 26, FM 88, shortwave 4 (1998)


Radios:

5.02 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

36 (plus 1,341 repeaters); also 2 stations in the US Armed Forces
Radio and Television Service (1995)


Televisions:

2.54 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.gr


Internet hosts:

1.626 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

27 (2000)


Internet users:

2.54 million (2007)


Transportation
Greece



Airports:

81 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 66
over 3,047 m: 5
2,438 to 3,047 m: 15
1,524 to 2,437 m: 20
914 to 1,523 m: 17
under 914 m: 9 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 15
914 to 1,523 m: 3
under 914 m: 12 (2007)


Heliports:

9 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 1,166 km; oil 94 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 2,571 km
standard gauge: 1,565 km 1.435-m gauge (764 km electrified)
narrow gauge: 961 km 1.000-m gauge; 22 km 0.750-m gauge
dual gauge: 23 km combined 1.435 m and 1.000-m gauges (three rail
system) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 117,533 km
paved: 107,895 km (includes 880 km of expressways)
unpaved: 9,638 km (2005)


Waterways:

6 km
note: Corinth Canal (6 km) crosses the Isthmus of Corinth; shortens
sea voyage by 325 km (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 869
by type: bulk carrier 260, cargo 66, carrier 1, chemical tanker 66,
combination ore/oil 2, container 45, liquefied gas 10, passenger 13,
passenger/cargo 115, petroleum tanker 274, roll on/roll off 15,
specialized tanker 2
foreign-owned: 64 (Belgium 16, Cyprus 7, Turkey 1, UK 32, US 8)
registered in other countries: 2,357 (Antigua and Barbuda 3, Bahamas
209, Barbados 12, Belize 1, Bermuda 9, Brazil 1, Cambodia 3, Cayman
Islands 16, China 2, Comoros 6, Cyprus 259, Denmark 4, Dominica 10,
Egypt 8, Georgia 5, Gibraltar 6, Honduras 4, Hong Kong 22, Isle of
Man 50, Italy 6, Jamaica 6, North Korea 1, Lebanon 2, Liberia 358,
Maldives 1, Malta 452, Marshall Islands 269, Norway 3, Panama 510,
Philippines 4, Portugal 4, Russia 1, Saint Kitts and Nevis 3, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines 71, Sao Tome and Principe 1, Saudi Arabia
3, Sierra Leone 1, Singapore 15, Slovakia 2, Turkey 1, UAE 3,
Uruguay 1, Vanuatu 1, Venezuela 3, unknown 5) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Agioitheodoroi, Aspropyrgos, Pachi, Piraeus, Thessaloniki


Military
Greece



Military branches:

Hellenic Army (Ellinikos Stratos, ES), Hellenic Navy (Ellinikos
Polemiko Navtiko, EPN), Hellenic Air Force (Elliniki Polimiki
Aeroporia, EPA) (2007)


Military service age and obligation:

19-45 years of age for compulsory military service; during wartime
the law allows for recruitment beginning January of the year of
inductee's 18th birthday, thus including 17 year olds; 17 years of
age for volunteers; conscript service obligation - 1 year for all
services; women are eligible for voluntary military service (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,535,174
females age 16-49: 2,517,273 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,084,469
females age 16-49: 2,065,956 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 53,858
female: 50,488 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

4.3% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Greece



Disputes - international:

Greece and Turkey continue discussions to resolve their complex
maritime, air, territorial, and boundary disputes in the Aegean Sea;
Cyprus question with Turkey; Greece rejects the use of the name
Macedonia or Republic of Macedonia; the mass migration of unemployed
Albanians still remains a problem for developed countries, chiefly
Greece and Italy


Illicit drugs:

a gateway to Europe for traffickers smuggling cannabis and heroin
from the Middle East and Southwest Asia to the West and precursor
chemicals to the East; some South American cocaine transits or is
consumed in Greece; money laundering related to drug trafficking and
organized crime



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Greenland

Introduction
Greenland



Background:

Greenland, the world's largest island, is about 81% ice-capped.
Vikings reached the island in the 10th century from Iceland; Danish
colonization began in the 18th century, and Greenland was made an
integral part of Denmark in 1953. It joined the European Community
(now the EU) with Denmark in 1973, but withdrew in 1985 over a
dispute centered on stringent fishing quotas. Greenland was granted
self-government in 1979 by the Danish parliament; the law went into
effect the following year. Denmark continues to exercise control of
Greenland's foreign affairs in consultation with Greenland's Home
Rule Government.


Geography
Greenland



Location:

Northern North America, island between the Arctic Ocean and the
North Atlantic Ocean, northeast of Canada


Geographic coordinates:

72 00 N, 40 00 W


Map references:

Arctic Region


Area:

total: 2,166,086 sq km
land: 2,166,086 sq km (410,449 sq km ice-free, 1,755,637 sq km
ice-covered) (2000 est.)


Area - comparative:

slightly more than three times the size of Texas


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

44,087 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 3 nm
exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm or agreed boundaries or median line
continental shelf: 200 nm or agreed boundaries or median line


Climate:

arctic to subarctic; cool summers, cold winters


Terrain:

flat to gradually sloping icecap covers all but a narrow,
mountainous, barren, rocky coast


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Gunnbjorn 3,700 m


Natural resources:

coal, iron ore, lead, zinc, molybdenum, diamonds, gold, platinum,
niobium, tantalite, uranium, fish, seals, whales, hydropower,
possible oil and gas


Land use:

arable land: 0%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 100% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

continuous permafrost over northern two-thirds of the island


Environment - current issues:

protection of the arctic environment; preservation of the Inuit
traditional way of life, including whaling and seal hunting


Geography - note:

dominates North Atlantic Ocean between North America and Europe;
sparse population confined to small settlements along coast; close
to one-quarter of the population lives in the capital, Nuuk; world's
second largest ice cap


People
Greenland



Population:

57,564 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 23.5% (male 6,867/female 6,634)
15-64 years: 69.9% (male 21,683/female 18,575)
65 years and over: 6.6% (male 1,892/female 1,913) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 33.5 years
male: 34.9 years
female: 31.8 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.064% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

14.87 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

8.23 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-5.99 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.02 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.17 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.99 male(s)/female
total population: 1.12 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 11.2 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 12.84 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 9.48 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 69.46 years
male: 66.81 years
female: 72.25 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.22 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

100 (1999)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Greenlander(s)
adjective: Greenlandic


Ethnic groups:

Greenlander 88% (Inuit and Greenland-born whites), Danish and others
12% (2000)


Religions:

Evangelical Lutheran


Languages:

Greenlandic (East Inuit), Danish, English


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 100%
male: 100%
female: 100% (2001 est.)


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Greenland



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Greenland
local long form: none
local short form: Kalaallit Nunaat


Dependency status:

part of the Kingdom of Denmark; self-governing overseas
administrative division of Denmark since 1979


Government type:

parliamentary democracy within a constitutional monarchy


Capital:

name: Nuuk (Godthab)
geographic coordinates: 64 11 N, 51 45 W
time difference: UTC-3 (2 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October
note: Greenland is divided into four time zones


Administrative divisions:

3 districts (landsdele); Avannaa (Nordgronland), Tunu (Ostgronland),
Kitaa (Vestgronland)
note: there are 18 municipalities in Greenland


Independence:

none (extensive self-rule as part of the Kingdom of Denmark; foreign
affairs is the responsibility of Denmark, but Greenland actively
participates in international agreements relating to Greenland)


National holiday:

June 21 (longest day)


Constitution:

5 June 1953 (Danish constitution)


Legal system:

the laws of Denmark, where applicable, apply


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen MARGRETHE II of Denmark (since 14 January
1972), represented by High Commissioner Soren MOLLER (since April
2005)
head of government: Prime Minister Hans ENOKSEN (since 14 December
2002)
cabinet: Home Rule Government is elected by the parliament
(Landstinget) on the basis of the strength of parties
elections: the monarchy is hereditary; high commissioner appointed
by the monarch; prime minister is elected by parliament (usually the
leader of the majority party);
election results: Hans ENOKSEN reelected prime minister
note: government coalition - Siumut and Inuit Ataqatigiit


Legislative branch:

unicameral Parliament or Landstinget (31 seats; members are elected
by popular vote on the basis of proportional representation to serve
four-year terms)
elections: last held on 15 November 2005 (next to be held by
December 2009)
election results: percent of vote by party - Siumut 30.7%,
Demokratiit 22.8%, IA 22.6%, Atassut Party 19.1%; Katusseqatigiit
4.1%, other 0.7%; seats by party - Siumut 10, Demokratiit 7, IA 7,
Atassut 6, Katusseqatigiit 1
note: two representatives were elected to the Danish Parliament or
Folketing on 13 November 2007 (next to be held in November 2011);
percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - Siumut 1, Inuit
Ataqatigiit 1


Judicial branch:

High Court or Landsret (appeals can be made to the Ostre Landsret or
Eastern Division of the High Court or Supreme Court in Copenhagen)


Political parties and leaders:

Atassut Party (Solidarity) [Finn KARLSEN] (a conservative party
favoring continuing close relations with Denmark); Demokratiit [Per
BERTHELSEN]; Inuit Ataqatigiit or IA (Eskimo Brotherhood) [Josef
MOTZFELDT] (a leftist party favoring complete independence from
Denmark rather than home rule); Kattusseqatigiit (Candidate List)
(an independent right-of-center party with no official platform);
Siumut (Forward Party) [Hans ENOKSEN] (a social democratic party
advocating more distinct Greenlandic identity and greater autonomy
from Denmark)


Political pressure groups and leaders:

other: conservationists; environmentalists


International organization participation:

Arctic Council, NC, NIB, UPU


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (self-governing overseas administrative division of Denmark)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (self-governing overseas administrative division of Denmark)


Flag description:

two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and red with a large disk
slightly to the hoist side of center - the top half of the disk is
red, the bottom half is white


Economy
Greenland



Economy - overview:

The economy remains critically dependent on exports of fish and a
substantial subsidy from the Danish Government, which supplies about
half of government revenues. The public sector, including publicly
owned enterprises and the municipalities, plays the dominant role in
the economy. Several interesting hydrocarbon and mineral exploration
activities are ongoing. Press reports in early 2007 indicated that
two international aluminum companies were considering building
smelters in Greenland to take advantage of local hydropower
potential. Tourism is the only sector offering any near-term
potential, and even this is limited due to a short season and high
costs. Air Greenland began summer-season direct flights to the US
east coast in May 2007, potentially opening a major new tourism
market.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$1.1 billion (2001 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$1.7 billion (2005)


GDP - real growth rate:

2% (2005 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$20,000 (2001 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: NA%
industry: NA%
services: NA%


Labor force:

32,120 (2004)


Unemployment rate:

9.3% (2005 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $1.36 billion
expenditures: $1.27 billion (2005)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

1% (2005 est.)


Agriculture - products:

forage crops, garden and greenhouse vegetables; sheep, reindeer; fish


Industries:

fish processing (mainly shrimp and Greenland halibut); gold,
niobium, tantalite, uranium, iron and diamond mining; handicrafts,
hides and skins, small shipyards


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

305 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

283.7 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0%
note: Greenland is shifting its electricity production from fossil
fuel to hydropower production (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

3,927 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

149.5 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

4,089 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Exports:

$480 million f.o.b. (2006)


Exports - commodities:

fish and fish products 94% (prawns 63%) (2001 est.)


Exports - partners:

Denmark 61.8%, Japan 9.9%, Canada 7.3%, China 5.8% (2007)


Imports:

$712 million c.i.f. (2006)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and transport equipment, manufactured goods, food,
petroleum products


Imports - partners:

Denmark 68.1%, Sweden 19.3%, Canada 2.5% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$512 million; note - subsidy from Denmark (2005)


Debt - external:

$25 million (1999)


Currency (code):

Danish krone (DKK)


Currency code:

DKK


Exchange rates:

Danish kroner (DKK) per US dollar - 5.4797 (2007), 5.9468 (2006),
5.9969 (2005), 5.9911 (2004), 6.5877 (2003)


Communications
Greenland



Telephones - main lines in use:

36,000 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

66,400 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: adequate domestic and international service
provided by satellite, cables and microwave radio relay; totally
digitalized in 1995
domestic: microwave radio relay and satellite
international: country code - 299; satellite earth stations - 15 (12
Intelsat, 1 Eutelsat, 2 Americom GE-2 (all Atlantic Ocean)) (2000)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 5, FM 12, shortwave 0 (1998)


Radios:

30,000 (1998 est.)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (plus some local low-power stations, and 3 Armed Forces Radio and
Television Service (AFRTS) stations (1997)


Televisions:

30,000 (1998 est.)


Internet country code:

.gl


Internet hosts:

14,132 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

52,000 (2007)


Transportation
Greenland



Airports:

14 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 9
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 5 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 5
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 2
under 914 m: 2 (2007)


Roadways:

note: although there are short roads in towns, there are no roads
between towns; inter-urban transport takes place either by sea or
air (2005)


Merchant marine:

total: 2
by type: cargo 1, passenger 1 (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Sisimiut


Military
Greenland



Military branches:

no regular military forces


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 15,221 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 10,739 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 534
female: 503 (2008 est.)


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of Denmark


Transnational Issues
Greenland



Disputes - international:

managed dispute between Canada and Denmark over Hans Island in the
Kennedy Channel between Canada's Ellesmere Island and Greenland



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Grenada

Introduction
Grenada



Background:

Carib Indians inhabited Grenada when COLUMBUS discovered the island
in 1498, but it remained uncolonized for more than a century. The
French settled Grenada in the 17th century, established sugar
estates, and imported large numbers of African slaves. Britain took
the island in 1762 and vigorously expanded sugar production. In the
19th century, cacao eventually surpassed sugar as the main export
crop; in the 20th century, nutmeg became the leading export. In
1967, Britain gave Grenada autonomy over its internal affairs. Full
independence was attained in 1974, making Grenada one of the
smallest independent countries in the Western Hemisphere. Grenada
was seized by a Marxist military council on 19 October 1983. Six
days later the island was invaded by US forces and those of six
other Caribbean nations, which quickly captured the ringleaders and
their hundreds of Cuban advisers. Free elections were reinstituted
the following year and have continued since that time. Hurricane
Ivan struck Grenada in September of 2004 causing severe damage.


Geography
Grenada



Location:

Caribbean, island between the Caribbean Sea and Atlantic Ocean,
north of Trinidad and Tobago


Geographic coordinates:

12 07 N, 61 40 W


Map references:

Central America and the Caribbean


Area:

total: 344 sq km
land: 344 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

twice the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

121 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; tempered by northeast trade winds


Terrain:

volcanic in origin with central mountains


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
highest point: Mount Saint Catherine 840 m


Natural resources:

timber, tropical fruit, deepwater harbors


Land use:

arable land: 5.88%
permanent crops: 29.41%
other: 64.71% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Total renewable water resources:

NA


Natural hazards:

lies on edge of hurricane belt; hurricane season lasts from June to
November


Environment - current issues:

NA


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Ozone
Layer Protection, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

the administration of the islands of the Grenadines group is divided
between Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and Grenada


People
Grenada



Population:

90,343 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 32.4% (male 14,725/female 14,524)
15-64 years: 64.7% (male 30,911/female 27,502)
65 years and over: 3% (male 1,310/female 1,371) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 22.4 years
male: 22.9 years
female: 21.9 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.406% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

21.61 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

6.31 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-11.23 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.12 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.96 male(s)/female
total population: 1.08 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 13.58 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 13.25 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 13.91 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 65.6 years
male: 63.74 years
female: 67.47 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.27 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Grenadian(s)
adjective: Grenadian


Ethnic groups:

black 82%, mixed black and European 13%, European and East Indian
5%, and trace of Arawak/Carib Amerindian


Religions:

Roman Catholic 53%, Anglican 13.8%, other Protestant 33.2%


Languages:

English (official), French patois


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 96%
male: NA
female: NA (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 12 years
male: 12 years
female: 12 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

5.2% of GDP (2003)


Government
Grenada



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Grenada


Government type:

parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Saint George's
geographic coordinates: 12 03 N, 61 45 W
time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

6 parishes and 1 dependency*; Carriacou and Petite Martinique*,
Saint Andrew, Saint David, Saint George, Saint John, Saint Mark,
Saint Patrick


Independence:

7 February 1974 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 7 February (1974)


Constitution:

19 December 1973


Legal system:

based on English common law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by Governor General Carlyle Arnold GLEAN (since 27
November 2008)
head of government: Prime Minister Tillman THOMAS (since 9 July 2008)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the advice of
the prime minister
elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor general appointed by
the monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the
majority party or the leader of the majority coalition is usually
appointed prime minister by the governor general


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (13 seats, 10 appointed
by the government and 3 by the leader of the opposition) and the
House of Representatives (15 seats; members are elected by popular
vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held on 8 July 2008 (next to be held in 2013)
election results: House of Representatives - percent of vote by
party - NA; seats by party - NDC 11, NNP 4


Judicial branch:

Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court, consisting of a court of Appeal and
a High Court of Justice (a High Court judge is assigned to and
resides in Grenada)


Political parties and leaders:

Grenada United Labor Party or GULP [Gloria Payne BANFIELD]; National
Democratic Congress or NDC [Tillman THOMAS]; New National Party or
NNP [Keith MITCHELL]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Committee for Human Rights in Grenada or CHRG; New Jewel Movement
Support Group; The British Grenada Friendship Society; The New Jewel
19 Committee


International organization participation:

ACP, C, Caricom, CDB, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OAS,
OECS, OPANAL, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Denis G. ANTOINE
chancery: 1701 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009
telephone: [1] (202) 265-2561
FAX: [1] (202) 265-2468
consulate(s) general: New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: the US Ambassador to Barbados is accredited to
Grenada
embassy: Lance-aux-Epines Stretch, Saint George's
mailing address: P. O. Box 54, Saint George's
telephone: [1] (473) 444-1173 through 1177
FAX: [1] (473) 444-4820


Flag description:

a rectangle divided diagonally into yellow triangles (top and
bottom) and green triangles (hoist side and outer side), with a red
border around the flag; there are seven yellow, five-pointed stars
with three centered in the top red border, three centered in the
bottom red border, and one on a red disk superimposed at the center
of the flag; there is also a symbolic nutmeg pod on the hoist-side
triangle (Grenada is the world's second-largest producer of nutmeg,
after Indonesia); the seven stars represent the seven administrative
divisions


Economy
Grenada



Economy - overview:

Grenada relies on tourism as its main source of foreign exchange,
especially since the construction of an international airport in
1985. Strong performances in construction and manufacturing,
together with the development of an offshore financial industry,
have also contributed to growth in national output. Grenada has
rebounded from the devastating effects of Hurricanes Ivan (2004) and
Emily (2005), but is now saddled with the debt burden from the
rebuilding process. The agricultural sector, particularly nutmeg and
cocoa cultivation, has gradually recovered, and the tourism sector
has seen substantial increases in foreign direct investment as the
regional share of the tourism market increases.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$1.108 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$590 million (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

3.1% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$10,500 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 5.4%
industry: 18%
services: 76.6% (2003)


Labor force:

42,300 (1996)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 24%
industry: 14%
services: 62% (1999 est.)


Unemployment rate:

12.5% (2000)


Population below poverty line:

32% (2000)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $85.8 million
expenditures: $102.1 million (1997)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

3.7% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

6.5% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

9.76% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$151.2 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$533.4 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$575.8 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

bananas, cocoa, nutmeg, mace, citrus, avocados, root crops,
sugarcane, corn, vegetables


Industries:

food and beverages, textiles, light assembly operations, tourism,
construction


Industrial production growth rate:

0.7% (1997 est.)


Electricity - production:

167.2 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

144.2 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

2,043 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

1,844 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$138 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$38 million (2006)


Exports - commodities:

bananas, cocoa, nutmeg, fruit and vegetables, clothing, mace


Exports - partners:

Jamaica 92.8%, Saint Lucia 1.3%, US 1.2% (2007)


Imports:

$343 million (2006)


Imports - commodities:

food, manufactured goods, machinery, chemicals, fuel


Imports - partners:

Trinidad and Tobago 36.5%, US 23.3%, Italy 4.1% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$44.87 million (2005)


Debt - external:

$347 million (2004)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

East Caribbean dollar (XCD)


Currency code:

XCD


Exchange rates:

East Caribbean dollars (XCD) per US dollar - 2.7 (2007), 2.7 (2006),
2.7 (2005), 2.7 (2004), 2.7 (2003)


Communications
Grenada



Telephones - main lines in use:

27,700 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

46,200 (2006)


Telephone system:

general assessment: automatic, islandwide telephone system
domestic: interisland VHF and UHF radiotelephone links
international: country code - 1-473; landing point for the East
Caribbean Fiber Optic System (ECFS) submarine cable with links to 13
other islands in the eastern Caribbean extending from the British
Virgin Islands to Trinidad; SHF radiotelephone links to Trinidad and
Tobago and Saint Vincent; VHF and UHF radio links to Trinidad


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 2, FM 13, shortwave 0 (1998)


Radios:

57,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

2 (1997)


Televisions:

33,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.gd


Internet hosts:

9 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

14 (2000)


Internet users:

23,000 (2007)


Transportation
Grenada



Airports:

3 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 3
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 1,127 km
paved: 687 km
unpaved: 440 km (2000)


Ports and terminals:

Saint George's


Military
Grenada



Military branches:

no regular military forces; Royal Grenada Police Force (includes
Coast Guard) (2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 27,309 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 20,249 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 1,034
female: 970 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

NA


Transnational Issues
Grenada



Disputes - international:

none


Illicit drugs:

small-scale cannabis cultivation; lesser transshipment point for
marijuana and cocaine to US



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Guam

Introduction
Guam



Background:

Guam was ceded to the US by Spain in 1898. Captured by the Japanese
in 1941, it was retaken by the US three years later. The military
installation on the island is one of the most strategically
important US bases in the Pacific.


Geography
Guam



Location:

Oceania, island in the North Pacific Ocean, about three-quarters of
the way from Hawaii to the Philippines


Geographic coordinates:

13 28 N, 144 47 E


Map references:

Oceania


Area:

total: 541.3 sq km
land: 541.3 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

three times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

125.5 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical marine; generally warm and humid, moderated by northeast
trade winds; dry season (January to June), rainy season (July to
December); little seasonal temperature variation


Terrain:

volcanic origin, surrounded by coral reefs; relatively flat
coralline limestone plateau (source of most fresh water), with steep
coastal cliffs and narrow coastal plains in north, low hills in
center, mountains in south


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: Mount Lamlam 406 m


Natural resources:

aquatic wildlife (supporting tourism), fishing (largely undeveloped)


Land use:

arable land: 3.64%
permanent crops: 18.18%
other: 78.18% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

frequent squalls during rainy season; relatively rare, but
potentially very destructive typhoons (June - December)


Environment - current issues:

extirpation of native bird population by the rapid proliferation of
the brown tree snake, an exotic, invasive species


Geography - note:

largest and southernmost island in the Mariana Islands archipelago;
strategic location in western North Pacific Ocean


People
Guam



Population:

175,877 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 28.2% (male 25,644/female 23,910)
15-64 years: 64.8% (male 58,034/female 55,900)
65 years and over: 7% (male 5,801/female 6,588) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 28.9 years
male: 28.7 years
female: 29.2 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.373% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

18.37 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

4.65 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.07 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.88 male(s)/female
total population: 1.04 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 6.55 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 7.22 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 5.84 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 78.93 years
male: 75.86 years
female: 82.19 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.55 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Guamanian(s) (US citizens)
adjective: Guamanian


Ethnic groups:

Chamorro 37.1%, Filipino 26.3%, other Pacific islander 11.3%, white
6.9%, other Asian 6.3%, other ethnic origin or race 2.3%, mixed 9.8%
(2000 census)


Religions:

Roman Catholic 85%, other 15% (1999 est.)


Languages:

English 38.3%, Chamorro 22.2%, Philippine languages 22.2%, other
Pacific island languages 6.8%, Asian languages 7%, other languages
3.5% (2000 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99%
male: 99%
female: 99% (1990 est.)


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Guam



Country name:

conventional long form: Territory of Guam
conventional short form: Guam
local long form: Guahan
local short form: Guahan


Dependency status:

organized, unincorporated territory of the US with policy relations
between Guam and the US under the jurisdiction of the Office of
Insular Affairs, US Department of the Interior


Government type:

NA


Capital:

name: Hagatna (Agana)
geographic coordinates: 13 28 N, 144 44 E
time difference: UTC+10 (15 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

none (territory of the US)


Independence:

none (territory of the US)


National holiday:

Discovery Day, first Monday in March (1521)


Constitution:

Organic Act of Guam, 1 August 1950


Legal system:

modeled on US; US federal laws apply


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal; US citizens, but do not vote in US
presidential elections


Executive branch:

chief of state: President George W. BUSH of the US (since 20 January
2001); Vice President Richard B. CHENEY (since 20 January 2001)
head of government: Governor Felix P. CAMACHO (since 6 January
2003); Lieutenant Governor Dr. Michael W. CRUZ (since 1 January 2007)
cabinet: heads of executive departments; appointed by the governor
with the consent of the Guam legislature
elections: under the US Constitution, residents of unincorporated
territories, such as Guam, do not vote in elections for US president
and vice president; however, they may vote in Democratic and
Republican presidential primary elections; governor and lieutenant
governor elected on the same ticket by popular vote for four-year
term (can serve two consecutive terms, then must wait a full term
before running again); election last held 7 November 2006 (next to
be held in November 2010)
election results: Felix P. CAMACHO reelected governor; Dr. Michael
W. CRUZ elected lieutenant governor; percent of vote - NA


Legislative branch:

unicameral Legislature (15 seats; members are elected by popular
vote to serve two-year terms)
elections: last held 7 November 2006 (next to be held in November
2008)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
Republican Party 8, Democratic Party 7
note: Guam elects one nonvoting delegate to the US House of
Representatives; election last held 7 November 2006 (next to be held
in November 2008); results - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - Democratic Party 1


Judicial branch:

Federal District Court (judge is appointed by the president);
Territorial Superior Court (judges appointed for eight-year terms by
the governor)


Political parties and leaders:

Democratic Party [leader Michael PHILLIPS]; Republican Party [Philip
J. FLORES] (controls the legislature)


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Guam Federation of Teachers' Union; Guam Waterworks Authority Workers
other: activists; indigenous groups


International organization participation:

IOC, SPC, UPU


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (territory of the US)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (territory of the US)


Flag description:

territorial flag is dark blue with a narrow red border on all four
sides; centered is a red-bordered, pointed, vertical ellipse
containing a beach scene, outrigger canoe with sail, and a palm tree
with the word GUAM superimposed in bold red letters; US flag is the
national flag


Economy
Guam



Economy - overview:

The economy depends largely on US military spending and tourism.
Total US grants, wage payments, and procurement outlays amounted to
$1.3 billion in 2004. Over the past 30 years, the tourist industry
has grown to become the largest income source following national
defense. The Guam economy continues to experience expansion in both
its tourism and military sectors.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$2.5 billion (2005 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$2.773 billion (2001)


GDP - real growth rate:

NA%


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$15,000 (2005 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: NA%
industry: NA%
services: NA%


Labor force:

62,050 (2002 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 26%
industry: 10%
services: 64% (2004 est.)


Unemployment rate:

11.4% (2002 est.)


Population below poverty line:

23% (2001 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $319.6 million
expenditures: $427.8 million (2002 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 October - 30 September


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.5% (2005 est.)


Agriculture - products:

fruits, copra, vegetables; eggs, pork, poultry, beef


Industries:

US military, tourism, construction, transshipment services, concrete
products, printing and publishing, food processing, textiles


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

1.789 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

1.664 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

12,780 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

13,530 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Exports:

$45 million f.o.b. (2004 est.)


Exports - commodities:

transshipments of refined petroleum products, construction
materials, fish, food and beverage products


Exports - partners:

Japan 67.2%, Singapore 11.6%, UK 4.8% (2006)


Imports:

$701 million f.o.b. (2004 est.)


Imports - commodities:

petroleum and petroleum products, food, manufactured goods


Imports - partners:

Singapore 50%, South Korea 21.4%, Japan 14%, Hong Kong 4.6% (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

Guam receives large transfer payments from the US Federal Treasury
into which Guamanians pay no income or excise taxes; under the
provisions of a special law of Congress, the Guam Treasury, rather
than the US Treasury, receives federal income taxes paid by military
and civilian Federal employees stationed in Guam (2001 est.)


Debt - external:

$NA


Currency (code):

US dollar (USD)


Currency code:

USD


Exchange rates:

the US dollar is used


Communications
Guam



Telephones - main lines in use:

65,500 (2003)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

98,000 (2004)


Telephone system:

general assessment: modern system, integrated with US facilities for
direct dialing, including free use of 800 numbers
domestic: modern digital system, including cellular mobile service
and local access to the Internet
international: country code - 1-671; major landing point for
submarine cables between Asia and the US (Guam is a trans-Pacific
communications hub for major carriers linking the US and Asia);
satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 3, FM 11, shortwave 2 (2005)


Radios:

221,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

3 (2006)


Televisions:

106,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.gu


Internet hosts:

36 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

20 (2000)


Internet users:

65,000 (2005)


Transportation
Guam



Airports:

5 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 4
over 3,047 m: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 1
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 1,045 km (2007)


Ports and terminals:

Apra Harbor


Military
Guam



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 1,665
female: 1,547 (2008 est.)


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of the US


Transnational Issues
Guam



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Guatemala

Introduction
Guatemala



Background:

The Mayan civilization flourished in Guatemala and surrounding
regions during the first millennium A.D. After almost three
centuries as a Spanish colony, Guatemala won its independence in
1821. During the second half of the 20th century, it experienced a
variety of military and civilian governments, as well as a 36-year
guerrilla war. In 1996, the government signed a peace agreement
formally ending the conflict, which had left more than 100,000
people dead and had created, by some estimates, some 1 million
refugees.


Geography
Guatemala



Location:

Central America, bordering the North Pacific Ocean, between El
Salvador and Mexico, and bordering the Gulf of Honduras (Caribbean
Sea) between Honduras and Belize


Geographic coordinates:

15 30 N, 90 15 W


Map references:

Central America and the Caribbean


Area:

total: 108,890 sq km
land: 108,430 sq km
water: 460 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Tennessee


Land boundaries:

total: 1,687 km
border countries: Belize 266 km, El Salvador 203 km, Honduras 256
km, Mexico 962 km


Coastline:

400 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation


Climate:

tropical; hot, humid in lowlands; cooler in highlands


Terrain:

mostly mountains with narrow coastal plains and rolling limestone
plateau


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: Volcan Tajumulco 4,211 m


Natural resources:

petroleum, nickel, rare woods, fish, chicle, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 13.22%
permanent crops: 5.6%
other: 81.18% (2005)


Irrigated land:

1,300 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

111.3 cu km (2000)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 2.01 cu km/yr (6%/13%/80%)
per capita: 160 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

numerous volcanoes in mountains, with occasional violent
earthquakes; Caribbean coast extremely susceptible to hurricanes and
other tropical storms


Environment - current issues:

deforestation in the Peten rainforest; soil erosion; water pollution


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

no natural harbors on west coast


People
Guatemala



Population:

13,002,206 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 40.1% (male 2,653,915/female 2,565,841)
15-64 years: 56.2% (male 3,539,874/female 3,762,471)
65 years and over: 3.7% (male 222,303/female 257,802) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 19.2 years
male: 18.6 years
female: 19.7 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.11% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

28.55 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

5.19 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-2.26 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.94 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.86 male(s)/female
total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 28.79 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 31.21 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 26.24 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 69.99 years
male: 68.22 years
female: 71.86 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

3.59 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

1.1% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

78,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

5,800 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: intermediate
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever
vectorborne disease: dengue fever and malaria (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Guatemalan(s)
adjective: Guatemalan


Ethnic groups:

Mestizo (mixed Amerindian-Spanish - in local Spanish called Ladino)
and European 59.4%, K'iche 9.1%, Kaqchikel 8.4%, Mam 7.9%, Q'eqchi
6.3%, other Mayan 8.6%, indigenous non-Mayan 0.2%, other 0.1% (2001
census)


Religions:

Roman Catholic, Protestant, indigenous Mayan beliefs


Languages:

Spanish 60%, Amerindian languages 40% (23 officially recognized
Amerindian languages, including Quiche, Cakchiquel, Kekchi, Mam,
Garifuna, and Xinca)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 69.1%
male: 75.4%
female: 63.3% (2002 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 10 years
male: 11 years
female: 10 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

2.6% of GDP (2006)


Government
Guatemala



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Guatemala
conventional short form: Guatemala
local long form: Republica de Guatemala
local short form: Guatemala


Government type:

constitutional democratic republic


Capital:

name: Guatemala
geographic coordinates: 14 37 N, 90 31 W
time difference: UTC-6 (1 hour behind Washington, DC during Standard
Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in April; ends last
Friday in September; note - there is no DST planned for 2007-2009


Administrative divisions:

22 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento); Alta
Verapaz, Baja Verapaz, Chimaltenango, Chiquimula, El Progreso,
Escuintla, Guatemala, Huehuetenango, Izabal, Jalapa, Jutiapa, Peten,
Quetzaltenango, Quiche, Retalhuleu, Sacatepequez, San Marcos, Santa
Rosa, Solola, Suchitepequez, Totonicapan, Zacapa


Independence:

15 September 1821 (from Spain)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 15 September (1821)


Constitution:

31 May 1985, effective 14 January 1986; note - suspended 25 May 1993
by former President Jorge SERRANO; reinstated 5 June 1993 following
ouster of president; amended November 1993


Legal system:

civil law system; judicial review of legislative acts; has not
accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal; note - active duty members of the armed
forces may not vote and are restricted to their barracks on election
day


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Alvaro COLOM Caballeros (since 14 January
2008); Vice President Rafael ESPADA (since 14 January 2008); note -
the president is both the chief of state and head of government
head of government: President Alvaro COLOM Caballeros (since 14
January 2008); Vice President Rafael ESPADA (since 14 January 2008)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
elections: president elected by popular vote for a four-year term
(may not serve consecutive terms); election last held 9 September
2007; runoff held 4 November 2007 (next to be held September 2011)
election results: Alvaro COLOM Caballeros elected president; percent
of vote - Alvaro COLOM Caballeros 52.8%, Otto PEREZ Molina 47.2%


Legislative branch:

unicameral Congress of the Republic or Congreso de la Republica (158
seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 9 September 2007 (next to be held in September
2011)
election results: percent of vote by party - UNE 30.4%, GANA 23.4%,
PP 18.9%, FRG 9.5%, PU 5.1%, other 12.7%; seats by party - UNE 48,
GANA 37, PP 30, FRG 15, PU 8, CASA 5, EG 4, PAN 4, UCN 4, URNG 2, UD
1


Judicial branch:

Constitutional Court or Corte de Constitucionalidad is Guatemala's
highest court (five judges are elected for concurrent five-year
terms); Supreme Court of Justice or Corte Suprema de Justicia (13
members serve concurrent five-year terms and elect a president of
the Court each year from among their number; the president of the
Supreme Court of Justice also supervises trial judges around the
country, who are named to five-year terms)


Political parties and leaders:

Center of Social Action or CASA [Eduardo SUGER]; Democracy Front or
FRENTE [Alfonso CABRERA]; Democratic Union or UD [Manuel CONDE
Orellana]; Encounter for Guatemala or EG [Nineth MONTENGRO]; Grand
National Alliance or GANA [Alfredo VILLA]; Guatemalan National
Revolutionary Unity or URNG [Hector NUILA]; Guatemalan Republican
Front or FRG [Efrain RIOS Montt]; National Advancement Party or PAN
[Ruben Dario MORALES]; National Unity for Hope or UNE [Alvaro COLOM
Caballeros]; Patriot Party or PP [Ret. Gen. Otto PEREZ Molina];
Unionista Party or PU [Fritz GARCIA]; Unity of National Change or
UCN [Sidney SHAW]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Agrarian Owners Group or UNAGRO; Alliance Against Impunity or AAI;
Committee for Campesino Unity or CUC; Coordinating Committee of
Agricultural, Commercial, Industrial, and Financial Associations or
CACIF; Mutual Support Group or GAM


International organization participation:

BCIE, CACM, FAO, G-24, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO
(correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES, LAIA (observer), MIGA,
MINUSTAH, MONUC, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIFIL, Union Latina, UNMIS, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCL,
WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Francisco VILLAGRAN de Leon
chancery: 2220 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 745-4952
FAX: [1] (202) 745-1908
consulate(s) general: Chicago, Denver, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami,
New York, Providence, San Francisco


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Stephen G. MCFARLAND
embassy: 7-01 Avenida Reforma, Zone 10, Guatemala City
mailing address: APO AA 34024
telephone: [502] 2326-4000
FAX: [502] 2326-4654


Flag description:

three equal vertical bands of light blue (hoist side), white, and
light blue with the coat of arms centered in the white band; the
coat of arms includes a green and red quetzal (the national bird)
and a scroll bearing the inscription LIBERTAD 15 DE SEPTIEMBRE DE
1821 (the original date of independence from Spain) all superimposed
on a pair of crossed rifles and a pair of crossed swords and framed
by a wreath


Economy
Guatemala



Economy - overview:

Guatemala is the most populous of the Central American countries
with a GDP per capita roughly one-half that of Argentina, Brazil,
and Chile. The agricultural sector accounts for about one-tenth of
GDP, two-fifths of exports, and half of the labor force. Coffee,
sugar, and bananas are the main products, with sugar exports
benefiting from increased global demand for ethanol. The 1996
signing of peace accords, which ended 36 years of civil war, removed
a major obstacle to foreign investment, and Guatemala since then has
pursued important reforms and macroeconomic stabilization. On 1 July
2006, the Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA) entered into
force between the US and Guatemala and has since spurred increased
investment in the export sector. The distribution of income remains
highly unequal with about 56% of the population below the poverty
line. Other ongoing challenges include increasing government
revenues, negotiating further assistance from international donors,
upgrading both government and private financial operations,
curtailing drug trafficking and rampant crime, and narrowing the
trade deficit. Given Guatemala's large expatriate community in the
United States, it is the top remittance recipient in Central
America, with inflows serving as a primary source of foreign income
equivalent to nearly two-thirds of exports.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$64.76 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$33.69 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

5.7% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$5,100 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 13.3%
industry: 25.8%
services: 60.9% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

3.958 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 50%
industry: 15%
services: 35% (1999 est.)


Unemployment rate:

3.2% (2005 est.)


Population below poverty line:

56.2% (2004 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 0.9%
highest 10%: 43.4% (2002)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

55.1 (2007)


Investment (gross fixed):

17.1% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $4.38 billion
expenditures: $4.872 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

20.9% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

6.8% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

NA (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

12.84% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$6.227 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$8.928 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$13.96 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

sugarcane, corn, bananas, coffee, beans, cardamom; cattle, sheep,
pigs, chickens


Industries:

sugar, textiles and clothing, furniture, chemicals, petroleum,
metals, rubber, tourism


Industrial production growth rate:

4.8% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

7.643 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

6.617 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

131.9 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

8.11 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 51.9%
hydro: 35.2%
nuclear: 0%
other: 12.9% (2001)


Oil - production:

15,820 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

74,230 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

15,560 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - imports:

72,960 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - proved reserves:

83.07 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

2.96 billion cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$1.663 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$6.94 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

coffee, sugar, petroleum, apparel, bananas, fruits and vegetables,
cardamom


Exports - partners:

US 42.2%, El Salvador 9.6%, Honduras 8.6%, Mexico 6.5%, Costa Rica
4.5% (2007)


Imports:

$12.62 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

fuels, machinery and transport equipment, construction materials,
grain, fertilizers, electricity


Imports - partners:

US 34.9%, Mexico 9.9%, China 6.8%, El Salvador 4.6%, Costa Rica 4.1%
(2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$253.6 million (2005 est.)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$4.139 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$5.908 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

quetzal (GTQ), US dollar (USD), others allowed


Currency code:

GTQ; USD


Exchange rates:

quetzales (GTQ) per US dollar - 7.6833 (2007), 7.6026 (2006), 7.6339
(2005), 7.9465 (2004), 7.9409 (2003)


Communications
Guatemala



Telephones - main lines in use:

1.355 million (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

10.15 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: fairly modern network centered in the city of
Guatemala
domestic: state-owned telecommunications company privatized in the
late 1990s opening the way for competition; fixed-line teledensity
11 per 100 persons; mobile-cellular teledensity 80 per 100 persons
international: country code - 502; landing point for both the
Americas Region Caribbean Ring System (ARCOS-1) and the SAM-1 fiber
optic submarine cable system that together provide connectivity to
South and Central America, parts of the Caribbean, and the US;
connected to Central American Microwave System; satellite earth
station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 130, FM 487, shortwave 15 (2000)


Radios:

835,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

26 (plus 27 repeaters) (1997)


Televisions:

1.323 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.gt


Internet hosts:

124,095 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

5 (2000)


Internet users:

1.32 million (2006)


Transportation
Guatemala



Airports:

402 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 12
2,438 to 3,047 m: 3
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 4
under 914 m: 3 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 390
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 6
914 to 1,523 m: 82
under 914 m: 301 (2007)


Pipelines:

oil 480 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 886 km
narrow gauge: 886 km 0.914-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 14,095 km
paved: 4,863 km (includes 75 km of expressways)
unpaved: 9,232 km (2000)


Waterways:

990 km
note: 260 km navigable year round; additional 730 km navigable
during high-water season (2007)


Ports and terminals:

Puerto Quetzal, Santo Tomas de Castilla


Military
Guatemala



Military branches:

Army, Navy (includes Marines), Air Force


Military service age and obligation:

all male citizens between the ages of 18 and 50 are liable for
military service; conscript service obligation varies from 12 to 24
months; women can serve as officers (2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,861,696
females age 16-49: 3,062,967 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,310,272
females age 16-49: 2,622,450 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 161,550
female: 159,760 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0.4% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Guatemala



Disputes - international:

annual ministerial meetings under the OAS-initiated Agreement on the
Framework for Negotiations and Confidence Building Measures continue
to address Guatemalan land and maritime claims in Belize and the
Caribbean Sea; the Line of Adjacency created under the 2002
Differendum serves in lieu of the contiguous international boundary
to control squatting in the sparsely inhabited rain forests of
Belize's border region; Mexico must deal with thousands of
impoverished Guatemalans and other Central Americans who cross the
porous border looking for work in Mexico and the United States


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

IDPs: undetermined (the UN does not estimate there are any IDPs,
although some NGOs estimate over 200,000 IDPs as a result of over
three decades of internal conflict that ended in 1996) (2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Guatemala is a source, transit, and destination
country for Guatemalans and Central Americans trafficked for the
purposes of commercial sexual exploitation and forced labor; human
trafficking is a significant and growing problem in the country;
Guatemalan women and children are trafficked within the country for
commercial sexual exploitation, primarily to Mexico and the United
States; Guatemalan men, women, and children are also trafficked
within the country, and to Mexico and the United States, for forced
labor
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - for a second consecutive year,
Guatemala is on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to provide
evidence of increasing efforts to combat trafficking in persons,
particularly with respect to ensuring that trafficking offenders are
appropriately prosecuted for their crimes; while prosecutors
initiated trafficking prosecutions, they continued to face problems
in court with application of Guatemala's comprehensive
anti-trafficking law; the government made modest improvements to its
protection efforts, but assistance remained inadequate overall in
2007 (2008)


Illicit drugs:

major transit country for cocaine and heroin; in 2005, cultivated
100 hectares of opium poppy after reemerging as a potential source
of opium in 2004; potential production of less than 1 metric ton of
pure heroin; marijuana cultivation for mostly domestic consumption;
proximity to Mexico makes Guatemala a major staging area for drugs
(particularly for cocaine); money laundering is a serious problem;
corruption is a major problem



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Guernsey

Introduction
Guernsey



Background:

Guernsey and the other Channel Islands represent the last remnants
of the medieval Dukedom of Normandy, which held sway in both France
and England. The islands were the only British soil occupied by
German troops in World War II. Guernsey is a British crown
dependency, but is not part of the UK. However, the UK Government is
constitutionally responsible for its defense and international
representation.


Geography
Guernsey



Location:

Western Europe, islands in the English Channel, northwest of France


Geographic coordinates:

49 28 N, 2 35 W


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 78 sq km
land: 78 sq km
water: 0 sq km
note: includes Alderney, Guernsey, Herm, Sark, and some other
smaller islands


Area - comparative:

about one-half the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

50 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 3 nm
exclusive fishing zone: 12 nm


Climate:

temperate with mild winters and cool summers; about 50% of days are
overcast


Terrain:

mostly level with low hills in southwest


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: unnamed location on Sark 114 m


Natural resources:

cropland


Land use:

arable land: NA
permanent crops: NA
other: NA


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

NA


Environment - current issues:

NA


Geography - note:

large, deepwater harbor at Saint Peter Port


People
Guernsey



Population:

65,726 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 14.6% (male 4,849/female 4,727)
15-64 years: 67.5% (male 22,013/female 22,380)
65 years and over: 17.9% (male 4,988/female 6,769) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 42.1 years
male: 41 years
female: 43 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.228% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

8.57 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

10.09 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

3.8 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.74 male(s)/female
total population: 0.94 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 4.53 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 5.05 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 3.98 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 80.65 years
male: 77.64 years
female: 83.76 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.4 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Channel Islander(s)
adjective: Channel Islander


Ethnic groups:

UK and Norman-French descent with small percentages from other
European countries


Religions:

Anglican, Roman Catholic, Presbyterian, Baptist, Congregational,
Methodist


Languages:

English, French, Norman-French dialect spoken in country districts


Literacy:

NA


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Guernsey



Country name:

conventional long form: Bailiwick of Guernsey
conventional short form: Guernsey


Dependency status:

British crown dependency


Government type:

parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Saint Peter Port
geographic coordinates: 49 27 N, 2 32 W
time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

none (British crown dependency); there are no first-order
administrative divisions as defined by the US Government, but there
are 10 parishes including Castel, Forest, Saint Andrew, Saint
Martin, Saint Peter Port, Saint Pierre du Bois, Saint Sampson, Saint
Saviour, Torteval, Vale


Independence:

none (British crown dependency)


National holiday:

Liberation Day, 9 May (1945)


Constitution:

unwritten; partly statutes, partly common law and practice


Legal system:

the laws of the UK, where applicable, apply; justice is administered
by the Royal Court


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952),
represented by Lieutenant Governor Sir Fabian MALBON (since 28
October 2005)
head of government: Chief Minister Lyndon TROTT (since 1 May 2008)
cabinet: Policy Council elected by the States of Deliberation
elections: the monarch is hereditary; lieutenant governor appointed
by the monarch; chief minister is elected by States of Deliberation
election results: Lyndon TROTT elected chief minister, percent of
vote of the States of Deliberation NA


Legislative branch:

unicameral States of Deliberation (45 seats; members are elected by
popular vote for four years); note - Alderney and Sark have
parliaments
elections: last held 23 April 2008 (next to be held in 2012)
election results: percent of vote - NA; seats - all independents


Judicial branch:

Royal Court (judges elected by an electoral college and the bailiff)


Political parties and leaders:

none; all independents


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Stop Traffic Endangering Pedestrian Safety or STEPS; No More Masts
[Colin FALLAIZE]


International organization participation:

UPU


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (British crown dependency)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (British crown dependency)


Flag description:

white with the red cross of Saint George (patron saint of England)
extending to the edges of the flag and a yellow equal-armed cross of
William the Conqueror superimposed on the Saint George cross


Economy
Guernsey



Economy - overview:

Financial services - banking, fund management, insurance - account
for about 23% of employment and about 55% of total income in this
tiny, prosperous Channel Island economy. Tourism, manufacturing, and
horticulture, mainly tomatoes and cut flowers, have been declining.
Financial services, construction, retail, and the public sector have
been growing. Light tax and death duties make Guernsey a popular tax
haven. The evolving economic integration of the EU nations is
changing the environment under which Guernsey operates.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$2.742 billion (2005)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$2.742 billion (2005)


GDP - real growth rate:

3% (2005 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$44,600 (2005)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 3%
industry: 10%
services: 87% (2000)


Labor force:

31,470 (March 2006)


Unemployment rate:

0.9% (March 2006 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $563.6 million
expenditures: $530.9 million (2005)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

3.4% (June 2006)


Agriculture - products:

tomatoes, greenhouse flowers, sweet peppers, eggplant, fruit;
Guernsey cattle


Industries:

tourism, banking


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

NA kWh


Electricity - consumption:

NA kWh


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2002)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2002)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: NA
hydro: NA
nuclear: NA
other: NA


Exports:

$NA


Exports - commodities:

tomatoes, flowers and ferns, sweet peppers, eggplant, other
vegetables


Exports - partners:

UK; note - regarded as internal trade (2006)


Imports:

$NA


Imports - commodities:

coal, gasoline, oil, machinery and equipment


Imports - partners:

UK; note - regarded as internal trade (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$NA


Debt - external:

$NA


Currency (code):

Guernsey pound
note: the British pound is also legal tender


Currency code:

GBP


Exchange rates:

Guernsey pound 0.4993 (2007), 0.5418 (2006), 0.5493 (2005), 0.5462
(2004), 0.6125 (2003)
note: the Guernsey pound is at par with the British pound


Communications
Guernsey



Telephones - main lines in use:

45,100 (2005)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

43,800 (2004)


Telephone system:

general assessment: NA
domestic: NA
international: 1 submarine cable


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 0 (1998)


Radios:

NA


Television broadcast stations:

1 (1997)


Televisions:

NA


Internet country code:

.gg


Internet hosts:

156 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

NA


Internet users:

36,000 (2005)


Transportation
Guernsey



Airports:

2 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Ports and terminals:

Saint Peter Port, Saint Sampson


Military
Guernsey



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 379
female: 353 (2008 est.)


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of the UK


Transnational Issues
Guernsey



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Guinea

Introduction
Guinea



Background:

Guinea has had only two presidents since gaining its independence
from France in 1958. Lansana CONTE came to power in 1984 when the
military seized the government after the death of the first
president, Sekou TOURE. Guinea did not hold democratic elections
until 1993 when Gen. CONTE (head of the military government) was
elected president of the civilian government. He was reelected in
1998 and again in 2003, though all the polls have been marred by
irregularities. Guinea has maintained its internal stability despite
spillover effects from conflict in Sierra Leone and Liberia. As
those countries have rebuilt, Guinea's own vulnerability to
political and economic crisis has increased. Declining economic
conditions and popular dissatisfaction with corruption and bad
governance prompted two massive strikes in 2006; a third nationwide
strike in early 2007 sparked violent protests in many Guinean cities
and prompted two weeks of martial law. To appease the unions and end
the unrest, CONTE named a new prime minister in March 2007.


Geography
Guinea



Location:

Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean, between
Guinea-Bissau and Sierra Leone


Geographic coordinates:

11 00 N, 10 00 W


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 245,857 sq km
land: 245,857 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Oregon


Land boundaries:

total: 3,399 km
border countries: Cote d'Ivoire 610 km, Guinea-Bissau 386 km,
Liberia 563 km, Mali 858 km, Senegal 330 km, Sierra Leone 652 km


Coastline:

320 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

generally hot and humid; monsoonal-type rainy season (June to
November) with southwesterly winds; dry season (December to May)
with northeasterly harmattan winds


Terrain:

generally flat coastal plain, hilly to mountainous interior


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Mont Nimba 1,752 m


Natural resources:

bauxite, iron ore, diamonds, gold, uranium, hydropower, fish, salt


Land use:

arable land: 4.47%
permanent crops: 2.64%
other: 92.89% (2005)


Irrigated land:

950 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

226 cu km (1987)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 1.51 cu km/yr (8%/2%/90%)
per capita: 161 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

hot, dry, dusty harmattan haze may reduce visibility during dry
season


Environment - current issues:

deforestation; inadequate supplies of potable water;
desertification; soil contamination and erosion; overfishing,
overpopulation in forest region; poor mining practices have led to
environmental damage


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

the Niger and its important tributary the Milo have their sources in
the Guinean highlands


People
Guinea



Population:

9,806,509 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 42.9% (male 2,126,575/female 2,080,048)
15-64 years: 53.7% (male 2,628,675/female 2,633,876)
65 years and over: 3.4% (male 148,159/female 189,176) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 18.4 years
male: 18.2 years
female: 18.7 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.492% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

37.84 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

11.29 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-1.63 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.78 male(s)/female
total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 67.41 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 71.02 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 63.69 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 56.58 years
male: 55.12 years
female: 58.08 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

5.25 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

3.2% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

140,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

9,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: malaria and yellow fever
water contact disease: schistosomiasis
respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis
aerosolized dust or soil contact disease: Lassa fever (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Guinean(s)
adjective: Guinean


Ethnic groups:

Peuhl 40%, Malinke 30%, Soussou 20%, smaller ethnic groups 10%


Religions:

Muslim 85%, Christian 8%, indigenous beliefs 7%


Languages:

French (official); note - each ethnic group has its own language


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 29.5%
male: 42.6%
female: 18.1% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 8 years
male: 10 years
female: 7 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

1.6% of GDP (2005)


Government
Guinea



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Guinea
conventional short form: Guinea
local long form: Republique de Guinee
local short form: Guinee
former: French Guinea


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Conakry
geographic coordinates: 9 33 N, 13 42 W
time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

33 prefectures and 1 special zone (zone special)*; Beyla, Boffa,
Boke, Conakry*, Coyah, Dabola, Dalaba, Dinguiraye, Dubreka, Faranah,
Forecariah, Fria, Gaoual, Gueckedou, Kankan, Kerouane, Kindia,
Kissidougou, Koubia, Koundara, Kouroussa, Labe, Lelouma, Lola,
Macenta, Mali, Mamou, Mandiana, Nzerekore, Pita, Siguiri, Telimele,
Tougue, Yomou


Independence:

2 October 1958 (from France)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 2 October (1958)


Constitution:

23 December 1990 (Loi Fundamentale)


Legal system:

based on French civil law system, customary law, and decree; accepts
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Lansana CONTE (head of military government
since 5 April 1984, elected president 19 December 1993)
head of government: Prime Minister Ahmed Tidiane SOUARE (since 23
May 2008)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
elections: president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term
(no term limits); candidate must receive a majority of the votes
cast to be elected president; election last held 21 December 2003
(next to be held in December 2010); the prime minister is appointed
by the president
election results: Lansana CONTE reelected president; percent of vote
- Lansana CONTE 95.3%, Mamadou Bhoye BARRY 4.6%


Legislative branch:

unicameral People's National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale
Populaire (114 seats; members are elected by a mixed system of
direct popular vote and proportional party lists)
elections: last held 30 June 2002 (next to be held in 2008)
election results: percent of vote by party - PUP 61.6%, UPR 26.6%,
other 11.8%; seats by party - PUP 85, UPR 20, other 9
note: legislative elections were due in 2007 but have been postponed


Judicial branch:

Court of First Instance or Tribunal de Premiere Instance; Court of
Appeal or Cour d'Appel; Supreme Court or Cour Supreme


Political parties and leaders:

National Union for Progress or UPN [Mamadou Bhoye BARRY]; Party for
Unity and Progress or PUP (the governing party) [Lansana CONTE];
People's Party of Guinea or PPG [Charles Pascal TOLNO]; Rally for
the Guinean People or RPG [Alpha CONDE]; Union of Democratic Forces
of Guinea or UFDG [Cellou Dalein DIALLO]; Union of Republican Forces
or UFR [Sidya TOURE]; Union for Progress of Guinea or UPG
[Jean-Marie DORE, secretary-general]; Union for Progress and Renewal
or UPR [Ousmane BAH]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

National Confederation of Guinean Workers-Labor Union of Guinean
Workers or CNTG-USTG Alliance (includes National Confederation of
Guinean Workers or CNTG [Rabiatou Sarah DIALLO] and Labor Union of
Guinean Workers or USTG [Dr. Ibrahima FOFANA]); National Council of
Civil Society Organizations of Guinea or CNOSCG [Ben Sekou SYLLA];
Syndicate of Guinean Teachers and Researchers or SLECG [Dr. Louis
M'Bemba SOUMAH]


International organization participation:

ACP, AfDB, AU, ECOWAS, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IDB,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO
(correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURSO, NAM, OIC, OIF,
OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIS, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU,
WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Mory Karamoko KABA
chancery: 2112 Leroy Place NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 483-9420
FAX: [1] (202) 483-8688


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Elizabeth
RASPOLIC
embassy: Koloma, Conakry, east of Hamdallaye Circle
mailing address: B. P. 603, Transversale No. 2, Centre Administratif
de Koloma, Commune de Ratoma, Conakry
telephone: [224] 65-10-40-00
FAX: [224] 65-10-42-97


Flag description:

three equal vertical bands of red (hoist side), yellow, and green;
uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia


Economy
Guinea



Economy - overview:

Guinea possesses major mineral, hydropower, and agricultural
resources, yet remains an underdeveloped nation. The country has
almost half of the world's bauxite reserves and is the
second-largest bauxite producer. The mining sector accounts for over
70% of exports. Long-run improvements in government fiscal
arrangements, literacy, and the legal framework are needed if the
country is to move out of poverty. Investor confidence has been
sapped by rampant corruption, a lack of electricity and other
infrastructure, a lack of skilled workers, and the political
uncertainty due to the failing health of President Lansana CONTE.
Guinea is trying to reengage with the IMF and World Bank, which cut
off most assistance in 2003, and is working closely with technical
advisors from the U.S. Treasury Department, the World Bank and IMF,
seeking to return to a fully funded program. Growth rose slightly in
2006-07, primarily due to increases in global demand and commodity
prices on world markets, but the standard of living fell. The Guinea
franc depreciated sharply as the prices for basic necessities like
food and fuel rose beyond the reach of most Guineans.
Dissatisfaction with economic conditions prompted nationwide strikes
in February and June 2006.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$10.96 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$4.714 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

1.5% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$1,100 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 23.8%
industry: 38.6%
services: 37.6% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

3.7 million (2006 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 76%
industry and services: 24% (2006 est.)


Unemployment rate:

NA%


Population below poverty line:

47% (2006 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 1.9%
highest 10%: 41% (2006)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

38.1 (2006)


Investment (gross fixed):

11.3% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $347.1 million
expenditures: $742.7 million (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

23.4% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

22.25% (31 December 2005)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

NA (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$309.8 million (31 December 2005)


Stock of quasi money:

NA (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$422.1 million (31 December 2005)


Agriculture - products:

rice, coffee, pineapples, palm kernels, cassava (tapioca), bananas,
sweet potatoes; cattle, sheep, goats; timber


Industries:

bauxite, gold, diamonds, iron; alumina refining; light
manufacturing, and agricultural processing


Industrial production growth rate:

7.6% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

800 million kWh
note: excludes electricity generated at interior mining sites (2006
est.)


Electricity - consumption:

744 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 45.5%
hydro: 54.5%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

8,559 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

8,811 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$424 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$1.128 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

bauxite, alumina, gold, diamonds, coffee, fish, agricultural products


Exports - partners:

Russia 10.8%, Ukraine 9.6%, Spain 8.8%, US 7.5%, Germany 7.4%, South
Korea 7.2%, France 7%, Ireland 5.5%, China 5% (2007)


Imports:

$1.202 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

petroleum products, metals, machinery, transport equipment,
textiles, grain and other foodstuffs


Imports - partners:

China 10%, France 7%, Netherlands 6.3% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$182.1 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$119 million (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$3.351 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Guinean franc (GNF)


Currency code:

GNF


Exchange rates:

Guinean francs (GNF) per US dollar - 4,122.8 (2007), 5,350 (2006),
3,644.3 (2005), 2,225 (2004), 1,984.9 (2003)


Communications
Guinea



Telephones - main lines in use:

26,300 (2005)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

189,000 (2005)


Telephone system:

general assessment: inadequate system of open-wire lines, small
radiotelephone communication stations, and new microwave radio relay
system
domestic: Conakry reasonably well served; coverage elsewhere remains
inadequate and large companies tend to rely on their own systems for
nationwide links; combined fixed and mobile-cellular teledensity is
about 2 per 100 persons
international: country code - 224; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 0, FM 5, shortwave 3 (2006)


Radios:

357,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

6 (2001)


Televisions:

85,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.gn


Internet hosts:

16 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

4 (2001)


Internet users:

50,000 (2006)


Transportation
Guinea



Airports:

16 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 5
over 3,047 m: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 3 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 11
1,524 to 2,437 m: 6
914 to 1,523 m: 3
under 914 m: 2 (2007)


Railways:

total: 837 km
standard gauge: 175 km 1.435-m gauge
narrow gauge: 662 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 44,348 km
paved: 4,342 km
unpaved: 40,006 km (2003)


Waterways:

1,300 km (navigable by shallow-draft native craft) (2005)


Ports and terminals:

Conakry, Kamsar


Military
Guinea



Military branches:

Armed Forces: Army, Navy (Marine Guineenne, includes Marines), Air
Force, Presidential Guard (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for compulsory military service; 2-year conscript
service obligation (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,230,049
females age 16-49: 2,193,236 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,268,193
females age 16-49: 1,259,913 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 106,967
female: 104,631 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.7% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Guinea



Disputes - international:

conflicts among rebel groups, warlords, and youth gangs in
neighboring states have spilled over into Guinea, resulting in
domestic instability; Sierra Leone considers Guinea's definition of
the flood plain limits to define the left bank boundary of the
Makona and Moa rivers excessive and protests Guinea's continued
occupation of these lands, including the hamlet of Yenga, occupied
since 1998


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 21,856 (Liberia); 5,259 (Sierra
Leone); 3,900 (Cote d'Ivoire)
IDPs: 19,000 (cross-border incursions from Cote d'Ivoire, Liberia,
Sierra Leone) (2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Guinea is a source, transit, and destination
country for men, women, and children trafficked for the purposes of
forced labor and sexual exploitation; the majority of victims are
children, and internal trafficking is more prevalent than
transnational trafficking; within the country, girls are trafficked
primarily for domestic servitude and sexual exploitation, while boys
are trafficked for forced agricultural labor, and as forced beggars,
street vendors, shoe shiners, and laborers in gold and diamond
mines; some Guinean men are also trafficked for agricultural labor
within Guinea; transnationally, girls are trafficked into Guinea for
domestic servitude and likely also for sexual exploitation
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Guinea is on the Tier 2 Watch List
for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to
eliminate trafficking over 2006; Guinea demonstrated minimal law
enforcement efforts for a second year in a row, while protection
efforts diminished over efforts in 2006; the government did not
report any trafficking convictions in 2007; due to a lack of
resources, the government does not provide shelter services for
trafficking victims; the government took no measures to reduce the
demand for commercial sexual exploitation (2008)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Guinea-Bissau

Introduction
Guinea-Bissau



Background:

Since independence from Portugal in 1974, Guinea-Bissau has
experienced considerable political and military upheaval. In 1980, a
military coup established authoritarian dictator Joao Bernardo
'Nino' VIEIRA as president. Despite setting a path to a market
economy and multiparty system, VIEIRA's regime was characterized by
the suppression of political opposition and the purging of political
rivals. Several coup attempts through the 1980s and early 1990s
failed to unseat him. In 1994 VIEIRA was elected president in the
country's first free elections. A military mutiny and resulting
civil war in 1998 eventually led to VIEIRA's ouster in May 1999. In
February 2000, a transitional government turned over power to
opposition leader Kumba YALA, after he was elected president in
transparent polling. In September 2003, after only three years in
office, YALA was ousted by the military in a bloodless coup, and
businessman Henrique ROSA was sworn in as interim president. In
2005, former President VIEIRA was re-elected president pledging to
pursue economic development and national reconciliation.


Geography
Guinea-Bissau



Location:

Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean, between Guinea
and Senegal


Geographic coordinates:

12 00 N, 15 00 W


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 36,120 sq km
land: 28,000 sq km
water: 8,120 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly less than three times the size of Connecticut


Land boundaries:

total: 724 km
border countries: Guinea 386 km, Senegal 338 km


Coastline:

350 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; generally hot and humid; monsoonal-type rainy season (June
to November) with southwesterly winds; dry season (December to May)
with northeasterly harmattan winds


Terrain:

mostly low coastal plain rising to savanna in east


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: unnamed location in the northeast corner of the
country 300 m


Natural resources:

fish, timber, phosphates, bauxite, clay, granite, limestone,
unexploited deposits of petroleum


Land use:

arable land: 8.31%
permanent crops: 6.92%
other: 84.77% (2005)


Irrigated land:

250 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

31 cu km (2003)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.18 cu km/yr (13%/5%/82%)
per capita: 113 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

hot, dry, dusty harmattan haze may reduce visibility during dry
season; brush fires


Environment - current issues:

deforestation; soil erosion; overgrazing; overfishing


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Ozone
Layer Protection, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

this small country is swampy along its western coast and low-lying
inland


People
Guinea-Bissau



Population:

1,503,182 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 41% (male 307,353/female 308,726)
15-64 years: 55.9% (male 404,747/female 436,245)
65 years and over: 3.1% (male 18,819/female 27,292) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 19.2 years
male: 18.6 years
female: 19.8 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.035% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

36.4 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

16.05 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.93 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.69 male(s)/female
total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 101.64 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 111.74 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 91.25 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 47.52 years
male: 45.71 years
female: 49.39 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

4.72 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

10% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

17,000 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

1,200 (2001 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: malaria and yellow fever
water contact disease: schistosomiasis
respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Guinean(s)
adjective: Guinean


Ethnic groups:

African 99% (includes Balanta 30%, Fula 20%, Manjaca 14%, Mandinga
13%, Papel 7%), European and mulatto less than 1%


Religions:

Muslim 50%, indigenous beliefs 40%, Christian 10%


Languages:

Portuguese (official), Crioulo, African languages


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 42.4%
male: 58.1%
female: 27.4% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 5 years
male: 7 years
female: 4 years (2001)


Education expenditures:

5.2% of GDP (1999)


Government
Guinea-Bissau



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Guinea-Bissau
conventional short form: Guinea-Bissau
local long form: Republica da Guine-Bissau
local short form: Guine-Bissau
former: Portuguese Guinea


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Bissau
geographic coordinates: 11 51 N, 15 35 W
time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

9 regions (regioes, singular - regiao); Bafata, Biombo, Bissau,
Bolama, Cacheu, Gabu, Oio, Quinara, Tombali; note - Bolama may have
been renamed Bolama/Bijagos


Independence:

24 September 1973 (declared); 10 September 1974 (from Portugal)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 24 September (1973)


Constitution:

16 May 1984; amended 4 May 1991, 4 December 1991, 26 February 1993,
9 June 1993, and in 1996


Legal system:

based on French civil law; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Joao Bernardo 'Nino' VIEIRA (since 1
October 2005)
head of government: Prime Minister Carlos CORREIA (since 5 August
2008)
cabinet: NA
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(no term limits); election last held 24 July 2005 (next to be held
in 2010); prime minister appointed by the president after
consultation with party leaders in the legislature
election results: Joao Bernardo VIEIRA elected president; percent of
vote, second ballot - Joao Bernardo VIEIRA 52.4%, Malam Bacai SANHA
47.6%


Legislative branch:

unicameral National People's Assembly or Assembleia Nacional Popular
(100 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve four-year
terms)
elections: last held 28 March 2004 (next to be held 16 November 2008)
election results: percent of vote by party - PAIGC 31.5%, PRS 24.8%,
PUSD 16.1%, UE 4.1%, APU 1.3%, 13 other parties 22.2%; seats by
party - PAIGC 45, PRS 35, PUSD 17, UE 2, APU 1


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court or Supremo Tribunal da Justica (consists of nine
justices appointed by the president and serve at his pleasure; final
court of appeals in criminal and civil cases); Regional Courts (one
in each of nine regions; first court of appeals for Sectoral Court
decisions; hear all felony cases and civil cases valued at more than
$1,000); 24 Sectoral Courts (judges are not necessarily trained
lawyers; they hear civil cases valued at less than $1,000 and
misdemeanor criminal cases)


Political parties and leaders:

African Party for the Independence of Guinea-Bissau and Cape Verde
or PAIGC [Carlos GOMES Junior]; Party for Social Renewal or PRS
[Kumba YALA]; Democratic Social Front or FDS; Electoral Union or UE;
Guinea-Bissau Civic Forum/Social Democracy or FCGSD [Antonieta Rosa
GOMES]; Guinea-Bissau Democratic Party or PDG; Guinea-Bissau
Socialist Democratic Party or PDSG [Serifo BALDE]; Labor and
Solidarity Party or PST [Iancuba INDJAI]; Party for Democratic
Convergence or PCD [Victor MANDINGA]; Party for Renewal and Progress
or PRP; Progress Party or PP [Ibrahima SOW]; Union for Change or UM
[Amine SAAD]; Union of Guinean Patriots or UPG [Francisca VAZ];
United Platform or UP (coalition formed by PCD, FDS, FLING, and
RGB-MB); United Popular Alliance or APU; United Social Democratic
Party or PUSD


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

ACP, AfDB, AU, CPLP, ECOWAS, FAO, FZ, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt
(signatory), ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
Interpol, IOC, IOM, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OIC, OIF, OPCW, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNWTO, UPU, WADB (regional),
WAEMU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: none; note - Guinea-Bissau does not have official
representation in Washington, DC


Diplomatic representation from the US:

the US Embassy suspended operations on 14 June 1998 in the midst of
violent conflict between forces loyal to then President VIEIRA and
military-led junta; the US Ambassador to Senegal is accredited to
Guinea-Bissau


Flag description:

two equal horizontal bands of yellow (top) and green with a vertical
red band on the hoist side; there is a black five-pointed star
centered in the red band; uses the popular pan-African colors of
Ethiopia


Economy
Guinea-Bissau



Economy - overview:

One of the five poorest countries in the world, Guinea-Bissau
depends mainly on farming and fishing. Cashew crops have increased
remarkably in recent years, and the country now ranks sixth in
cashew production. Guinea-Bissau exports fish and seafood along with
small amounts of peanuts, palm kernels, and timber. Rice is the
major crop and staple food. However, intermittent fighting between
Senegalese-backed government troops and a military junta destroyed
much of the country's infrastructure and caused widespread damage to
the economy in 1998; the civil war led to a 28% drop in GDP that
year, with partial recovery in 1999-2002. Before the war, trade
reform and price liberalization were the most successful part of the
country's structural adjustment program under IMF sponsorship. The
tightening of monetary policy and the development of the private
sector had also begun to reinvigorate the economy. Because of high
costs, the development of petroleum, phosphate, and other mineral
resources is not a near-term prospect. Offshore oil prospecting is
underway in several sectors but has not yet led to commercially
viable crude deposits. The inequality of income distribution is one
of the most extreme in the world. The government and international
donors continue to work out plans to forward economic development
from a lamentably low base. In December 2003, the World Bank, IMF,
and UNDP were forced to step in to provide emergency budgetary
support in the amount of $107 million for 2004, representing over
80% of the total national budget. Government drift and indecision,
however, resulted in continued low growth in 2002-06. Higher raw
material prices boosted growth to 3.7% in 2007.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$826.4 million (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$343 million (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

2.7% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$600 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 62%
industry: 12%
services: 26% (1999 est.)


Labor force:

480,000 (1999)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 82%
industry and services: 18% (2000 est.)


Unemployment rate:

NA%


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 0.5%
highest 10%: 42.4% (1991)


Budget:

revenues: $NA
expenditures: $NA


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

3.8% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

4.25% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$142.5 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$12.04 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$46.44 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

rice, corn, beans, cassava (tapioca), cashew nuts, peanuts, palm
kernels, cotton; timber; fish


Industries:

agricultural products processing, beer, soft drinks


Industrial production growth rate:

4.7% (2003 est.)


Electricity - production:

60 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

55.8 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

2,520 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

2,560 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$6 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$133 million f.o.b. (2006)


Exports - commodities:

cashew nuts, shrimp, peanuts, palm kernels, sawn lumber


Exports - partners:

Brazil 56.2%, India 33.6%, Nigeria 8.3% (2007)


Imports:

$200 million f.o.b. (2006)


Imports - commodities:

foodstuffs, machinery and transport equipment, petroleum products


Imports - partners:

Portugal 21.7%, Senegal 16.8%, France 6%, Pakistan 4.7% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$79.12 million (2005)


Debt - external:

$941.5 million (2000 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note - responsible
authority is the Central Bank of the West African States


Currency code:

XOF; GWP


Exchange rates:

Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US dollar - 493.51
(2007), 522.59 (2006), 527.47 (2005), 528.29 (2004), 581.2 (2003)
note: since 1 January 1999, the XOF franc has been pegged to the
euro at a rate of 655.957 XOF francs per euro


Communications
Guinea-Bissau



Telephones - main lines in use:

4,600 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

296,200 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: small system
domestic: combination of microwave radio relay, open-wire lines,
radiotelephone, and cellular communications; fixed-line teledensity
less than 1 per 100 persons; mobile-cellular teledensity reached 20
per 100 in 2007
international: country code - 245


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1 (transmitter out of service), FM 4, shortwave 0 (2001)


Radios:

49,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

NA (2005)


Televisions:

NA


Internet country code:

.gw


Internet hosts:

82 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

2 (2002)


Internet users:

37,000 (2006)


Transportation
Guinea-Bissau



Airports:

27 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 3
over 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 24
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 4
under 914 m: 19 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 3,455 km
paved: 965 km
unpaved: 2,490 km (2002)


Waterways:

rivers are navigable for some distance; many inlets and creeks give
shallow-water access to much of interior (2007)


Ports and terminals:

Bissau, Buba, Cacheu, Farim


Military
Guinea-Bissau



Military branches:

People's Revolutionary Armed Force (FARP): Army, Navy, Air Force;
paramilitary force


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for selective compulsory military service (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 344,087
females age 16-49: 347,886 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 188,605
females age 16-49: 195,429 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 16,634
female: 16,841 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

3.1% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Guinea-Bissau



Disputes - international:

in 2006, political instability within Senegal's Casamance region
resulted in thousands of Senegalese refugees, cross-border raids,
and arms smuggling into Guinea-Bissau


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 7,454 (Senegal) (2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Guinea-Bissau is a source country for children
trafficked primarily for forced begging and forced agricultural
labor to other West African countries
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - for the second year in a row,
Guinea-Bissau is on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to combat
severe forms of trafficking in persons, as evidenced by the
continued failure to pass an anti-trafficking law and inadequate
efforts to investigate or prosecute trafficking crimes or convict
and punish trafficking offenders (2008)


Illicit drugs:

increasingly important transit country for South American cocaine
enroute to Europe; enabling environment for trafficker operations
thanks to pervasive corruption; archipelago-like geography around
the capital facilitates drug smuggling



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Guyana

Introduction
Guyana



Background:

Originally a Dutch colony in the 17th century, by 1815 Guyana had
become a British possession. The abolition of slavery led to black
settlement of urban areas and the importation of indentured servants
from India to work the sugar plantations. This ethnocultural divide
has persisted and has led to turbulent politics. Guyana achieved
independence from the UK in 1966, and since then it has been ruled
mostly by socialist-oriented governments. In 1992, Cheddi JAGAN was
elected president in what is considered the country's first free and
fair election since independence. After his death five years later,
his wife, Janet JAGAN, became president but resigned in 1999 due to
poor health. Her successor, Bharrat JAGDEO, was reelected in 2001
and again in 2006.


Geography
Guyana



Location:

Northern South America, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean, between
Suriname and Venezuela


Geographic coordinates:

5 00 N, 59 00 W


Map references:

South America


Area:

total: 214,970 sq km
land: 196,850 sq km
water: 18,120 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Idaho


Land boundaries:

total: 2,949 km
border countries: Brazil 1,606 km, Suriname 600 km, Venezuela 743 km


Coastline:

459 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm or to the outer edge of the continental
margin


Climate:

tropical; hot, humid, moderated by northeast trade winds; two rainy
seasons (May to August, November to January)


Terrain:

mostly rolling highlands; low coastal plain; savanna in south


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Mount Roraima 2,835 m


Natural resources:

bauxite, gold, diamonds, hardwood timber, shrimp, fish


Land use:

arable land: 2.23%
permanent crops: 0.14%
other: 97.63% (2005)


Irrigated land:

1,500 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

241 cu km (2000)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 1.64 cu km/yr (2%/1%/98%)
per capita: 2,187 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

flash floods are a constant threat during rainy seasons


Environment - current issues:

water pollution from sewage and agricultural and industrial
chemicals; deforestation


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber
83, Tropical Timber 94
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

the third-smallest country in South America after Suriname and
Uruguay; substantial portions of its western and eastern territories
are claimed by Venezuela and Suriname respectively


People
Guyana



Population:

770,794
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 25.9% (male 101,712/female 97,907)
15-64 years: 68.7% (male 267,239/female 262,188)
65 years and over: 5.4% (male 17,610/female 24,138) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 28.2 years
male: 27.7 years
female: 28.7 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.211% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

17.85 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

8.29 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-7.45 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.73 male(s)/female
total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 30.43 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 33.87 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 26.82 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 66.43 years
male: 63.81 years
female: 69.18 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.03 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

2.5% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

11,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

1,100 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria
water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Guyanese (singular and plural)
adjective: Guyanese


Ethnic groups:

East Indian 43.5%, black (African) 30.2%, mixed 16.7%, Amerindian
9.1%, other 0.5% (2002 census)


Religions:

Hindu 28.4%, Pentecostal 16.9%, Roman Catholic 8.1%, Anglican 6.9%,
Seventh Day Adventist 5%, Methodist 1.7%, Jehovah Witness 1.1%,
other Christian 17.7%, Muslim 7.2%, other 4.3%, none 4.3% (2002
census)


Languages:

English, Amerindian dialects, Creole, Caribbean Hindustani (a
dialect of Hindi), Urdu


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over has ever attended school
total population: 98.8%
male: 99.1%
female: 98.5% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 13 years
male: 13 years
female: 14 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

8.3% of GDP (2006)


Government
Guyana



Country name:

conventional long form: Cooperative Republic of Guyana
conventional short form: Guyana
former: British Guiana


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Georgetown
geographic coordinates: 6 48 N, 58 10 W
time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

10 regions; Barima-Waini, Cuyuni-Mazaruni, Demerara-Mahaica, East
Berbice-Corentyne, Essequibo Islands-West Demerara, Mahaica-Berbice,
Pomeroon-Supenaam, Potaro-Siparuni, Upper Demerara-Berbice, Upper
Takutu-Upper Essequibo


Independence:

26 May 1966 (from UK)


National holiday:

Republic Day, 23 February (1970)


Constitution:

6 October 1980


Legal system:

based on English common law with certain admixtures of Roman-Dutch
law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Bharrat JAGDEO (since 11 August 1999);
note - assumed presidency after resignation of President Janet JAGAN
and was reelected in 2001, and again in 2006
head of government: Prime Minister Samuel HINDS (since October 1992,
except for a period as chief of state after the death of President
Cheddi JAGAN on 6 March 1997)
cabinet: Cabinet of Ministers appointed by the president,
responsible to the legislature
elections: president elected by popular vote as leader of a party
list in parliamentary elections, which must be held at least every
five years (no term limits); elections last held 28 August 2006
(next to be held by August 2011); prime minister appointed by the
president
election results: President Bharrat JAGDEO reelected; percent of
vote 54.6%


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly (65 seats; members elected by popular
vote, also not more than 4 non-elected non-voting ministers and 2
non-elected non-voting parliamentary secretaries appointed by the
president; to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held 28 August 2006 (next to be held by August 2011)
election results: percent of vote by party - PPP/C 54.6%, PNC/R 34%,
AFC 8.1%, other 3.3%; seats by party - PPP/C 36, PNC/R 22, AFC 5,
other 2


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court of Judicature, consisting of the High Court and the
Judicial Court of Appeal, with right of final appeal to the
Caribbean Court of Justice


Political parties and leaders:

Alliance for Change or AFC [Raphael TROTMAN and Khemraj RAMJATTAN];
Guyana Action Party or GAP [Paul HARDY]; Justice for All Party [C.N.
SHARMA]; People's National Congress/Reform or PNC/R [Robert Herman
Orlando CORBIN]; People's Progressive Party/Civic or PPP/C [Bharrat
JAGDEO]; Rise, Organize, and Rebuild or ROAR [Ravi DEV]; The United
Force or TUF [Manzoor NADIR]; The Unity Party [Joey JAGAN]; Vision
Guyana [Peter RAMSAROOP]; Working People's Alliance or WPA [Rupert
ROOPNARAINE]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Amerindian People's Association; Guyana Bar Association; Guyana
Citizens Initiative; Guyana Human Rights Association; Guyana Public
Service Union or GPSU; Private Sector Commission; Trades Union
Congress


International organization participation:

ACP, C, Caricom, CDB, FAO, G-77, IADB, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO
(subscriber), ITU, ITUC, LAES, MIGA, NAM, OAS, OIC, OPANAL, OPCW,
PCA, RG, UN, UNASUR, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU,
WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Bayney KARRAN
chancery: 2490 Tracy Place NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 265-6900
FAX: [1] (202) 232-1297
consulate(s) general: New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador John Melvin JONES
embassy: US Embassy, 100 Young and Duke Streets, Kingston, Georgetown
mailing address: P. O. Box 10507, Georgetown; US Embassy, 3170
Georgetown Place, Washington DC 20521-3170
telephone: [592] 225-4900 through 4909
FAX: [592] 225-8497


Flag description:

green, with a red isosceles triangle (based on the hoist side)
superimposed on a long, yellow arrowhead; there is a narrow, black
border between the red and yellow, and a narrow, white border
between the yellow and the green


Economy
Guyana



Economy - overview:

The Guyanese economy exhibited moderate economic growth in 2001-07,
based on expansion in the agricultural and mining sectors, a more
favorable atmosphere for business initiatives, a more realistic
exchange rate, fairly low inflation, and the continued support of
international organizations. Economic recovery since the 2005
flood-related contraction has been buoyed by increases in
remittances and foreign direct investment. Chronic problems include
a shortage of skilled labor and a deficient infrastructure. The
government is juggling a sizable external debt against the urgent
need for expanded public investment. In March 2007, the
Inter-American Development Bank, Guyana's principal donor, canceled
Guyana's nearly $470 million debt, equivalent to nearly 48% of GDP.
The bauxite mining sector should benefit in the near term from
restructuring and partial privatization, and the state-owned sugar
industry will conduct efficiency increasing modernizations. Export
earnings from agriculture and mining have fallen sharply, while the
import bill has risen, driven by higher energy prices. Guyana's
entrance into the Caricom Single Market and Economy (CSME) in
January 2006 will broaden the country's export market, primarily in
the raw materials sector.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$2.819 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$1.039 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

5.3% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$3,700 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 31.1%
industry: 21.7%
services: 47.1% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

418,000 (2001 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: NA%
industry: NA%
services: NA%


Unemployment rate:

9.1% (understated) (2000)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 1.3%
highest 10%: 33.8% (1999)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

43.2 (1999)


Investment (gross fixed):

34.9% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $446.2 million
expenditures: $531.2 million (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

12.3% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

6.5% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

14.61% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$315.2 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$728.8 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$739.3 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

sugarcane, rice, shrimp, fish, vegetable oils; beef, pork, poultry,
dairy products


Industries:

bauxite, sugar, rice milling, timber, textiles, gold mining


Industrial production growth rate:

-26.4% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

901 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

747 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 99.4%
hydro: 0.6%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

10,440 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

10,960 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$157 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$683 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

sugar, gold, bauxite, alumina, rice, shrimp, molasses, rum, timber


Exports - partners:

Canada 18.7%, US 16.5%, UK 9.1%, Portugal 7.6%, Trinidad and Tobago
5.2%, France 4.7%, Netherlands 4.6%, Jamaica 4% (2007)


Imports:

$1.006 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

manufactures, machinery, petroleum, food


Imports - partners:

Trinidad and Tobago 26.2%, US 20.5%, Cuba 7.2%, China 7.1%, UK 5.4%
(2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$136.8 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$313 million (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$1.2 billion (2002)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$187.3 million (2005)


Currency (code):

Guyanese dollar (GYD)


Currency code:

GYD


Exchange rates:

Guyanese dollars (GYD) per US dollar - 201.89 (2007), 200.28 (2006),
200.79 (2005), 198.31 (2004), 193.88 (2003)


Communications
Guyana



Telephones - main lines in use:

110,100 (2005)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

281,400 (2005)


Telephone system:

general assessment: fair system for long-distance service
domestic: microwave radio relay network for trunk lines; fixed-line
teledensity is about 15 per 100 persons; many areas still lack
fixed-line telephone services; mobile-cellular teledensity reached
37 per 100 persons in 2005
international: country code - 592; tropospheric scatter to Trinidad;
satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 3, FM 3, shortwave 1 (1998)


Radios:

420,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

3 (1 public station; 2 private stations which relay US satellite
services) (1997)


Televisions:

46,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.gy


Internet hosts:

6,218 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

3 (2000)


Internet users:

190,000 (2007)


Transportation
Guyana



Airports:

93 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 9
1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
under 914 m: 6 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 84
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 14
under 914 m: 69 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 7,970 km
paved: 590 km
unpaved: 7,380 km (2000)


Waterways:

Berbice, Demerara, and Essequibo rivers are navigable by oceangoing
vessels for 150 km, 100 km, and 80 km respectively (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 8
by type: cargo 6, petroleum tanker 1, refrigerated cargo 1
registered in other countries: 3 (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
2, unknown 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Georgetown


Military
Guyana



Military branches:

Guyana Defense Force: Army (includes Coast Guard, Air Corps) (2007)


Military service age and obligation:

18-25 years of age for voluntary military service; no conscription
(2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 220,797 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 150,623 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 6,713
female: 6,451 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.8% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Guyana



Disputes - international:

all of the area west of the Essequibo River is claimed by Venezuela
preventing any discussion of a maritime boundary; Guyana has
expressed its intention to join Barbados in asserting claims before
UNCLOS that Trinidad and Tobago's maritime boundary with Venezuela
extends into their waters; Suriname claims a triangle of land
between the New and Kutari/Koetari rivers in a historic dispute over
the headwaters of the Courantyne; Guyana seeks arbitration under
provisions of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) to
resolve the long-standing dispute with Suriname over the axis of the
territorial sea boundary in potentially oil-rich waters


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Guyana is a source, transit, and destination
country for men, women, and children trafficked for the purposes of
commercial sexual exploitation and forced labor; most trafficking
appears to take place in remote mining camps in the country's
interior; some women and girls are trafficked from northern Brazil;
reporting from other nations suggests Guyanese women and girls are
trafficked for sexual exploitation to neighboring countries and
Guyanese men and boys are subject to labor exploitation in
construction and agriculture; trafficking victims from Suriname,
Brazil, and Venezuela transit Guyana en route to Caribbean
destinations
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - for a second consecutive year,
Guyana is on the Tier 2 Watch List for failing to provide evidence
of increasing efforts to combat trafficking, particularly in the
area of law enforcement actions against trafficking offenders; the
government has yet to produce an anti-trafficking conviction under
the comprehensive Combating of Trafficking in Persons Act, which
became law in 2005; the government operates no shelters for
trafficking victims, but did include limited funding for
anti-trafficking NGOs in its 2008 budget; the government did not
make any effort to reduce demand for commercial sex acts during 2007
(2008)


Illicit drugs:

transshipment point for narcotics from South America - primarily
Venezuela - to Europe and the US; producer of cannabis; rising money
laundering related to drug trafficking and human smuggling



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Haiti

Introduction
Haiti



Background:

The native Taino Amerindians - who inhabited the island of
Hispaniola when it was discovered by COLUMBUS in 1492 - were
virtually annihilated by Spanish settlers within 25 years. In the
early 17th century, the French established a presence on Hispaniola,
and in 1697, Spain ceded to the French the western third of the
island, which later became Haiti. The French colony, based on
forestry and sugar-related industries, became one of the wealthiest
in the Caribbean, but only through the heavy importation of African
slaves and considerable environmental degradation. In the late 18th
century, Haiti's nearly half million slaves revolted under Toussaint
L'OUVERTURE. After a prolonged struggle, Haiti became the first
black republic to declare its independence in 1804. The poorest
country in the Western Hemisphere, Haiti has been plagued by
political violence for most of its history. After an armed rebellion
led to the forced resignation and exile of President Jean-Bertrand
ARISTIDE in February 2004, an interim government took office to
organize new elections under the auspices of the United Nations
Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH). Continued violence and
technical delays prompted repeated postponements, but Haiti finally
did inaugurate a democratically elected president and parliament in
May of 2006.


Geography
Haiti



Location:

Caribbean, western one-third of the island of Hispaniola, between
the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean, west of the
Dominican Republic


Geographic coordinates:

19 00 N, 72 25 W


Map references:

Central America and the Caribbean


Area:

total: 27,750 sq km
land: 27,560 sq km
water: 190 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Maryland


Land boundaries:

total: 360 km
border countries: Dominican Republic 360 km


Coastline:

1,771 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: to depth of exploitation


Climate:

tropical; semiarid where mountains in east cut off trade winds


Terrain:

mostly rough and mountainous


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
highest point: Chaine de la Selle 2,680 m


Natural resources:

bauxite, copper, calcium carbonate, gold, marble, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 28.11%
permanent crops: 11.53%
other: 60.36% (2005)


Irrigated land:

920 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

14 cu km (2000)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.99 cu km/yr (5%/1%/94%)
per capita: 116 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

lies in the middle of the hurricane belt and subject to severe
storms from June to October; occasional flooding and earthquakes;
periodic droughts


Environment - current issues:

extensive deforestation (much of the remaining forested land is
being cleared for agriculture and used as fuel); soil erosion;
inadequate supplies of potable water


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine
Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection
signed, but not ratified: Hazardous Wastes


Geography - note:

shares island of Hispaniola with Dominican Republic (western
one-third is Haiti, eastern two-thirds is the Dominican Republic)


People
Haiti



Population:

8,924,553
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 41.8% (male 1,881,509/female 1,851,591)
15-64 years: 54.7% (male 2,386,761/female 2,495,233)
65 years and over: 3.5% (male 135,695/female 173,764) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 18.5 years
male: 18.1 years
female: 19 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.493% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

35.69 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

10.15 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-0.61 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.96 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.78 male(s)/female
total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 62.33 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 66.88 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 57.64 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 57.56 years
male: 55.83 years
female: 59.35 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

4.79 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

5.6% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

280,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

24,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A and E, and typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria
water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Haitian(s)
adjective: Haitian


Ethnic groups:

black 95%, mulatto and white 5%


Religions:

Roman Catholic 80%, Protestant 16% (Baptist 10%, Pentecostal 4%,
Adventist 1%, other 1%), none 1%, other 3%
note: roughly half of the population practices voodoo


Languages:

French (official), Creole (official)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 52.9%
male: 54.8%
female: 51.2% (2003 est.)


Education expenditures:

1.4% of GDP (1991)


Government
Haiti



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Haiti
conventional short form: Haiti
local long form: Republique d'Haiti/Repiblik d' Ayiti
local short form: Haiti/Ayiti


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Port-au-Prince
geographic coordinates: 18 32 N, 72 20 W
time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard
Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins first Sunday in April; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

10 departments (departements, singular - departement); Artibonite,
Centre, Grand 'Anse, Nippes, Nord, Nord-Est, Nord-Ouest, Ouest, Sud,
Sud-Est


Independence:

1 January 1804 (from France)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 1 January (1804)


Constitution:

approved March 1987; suspended June 1988 with most articles
reinstated March 1989; constitutional government ousted in a
military coup in September 1991, although in October 1991, military
government claimed to be observing the constitution; returned to
constitutional rule in October 1994; constitution, while technically
in force between 2004-2006, was not enforced; returned to
constitutional rule in May 2006


Legal system:

based on Roman civil law system; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Rene PREVAL (since 14 May 2006)
head of government: Prime Minister Michele PIERRE-LOUIS (since 5
September 2008)
cabinet: Cabinet chosen by the prime minister in consultation with
the president
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(may not serve consecutive terms); election last held 7 February
2006 (next to be held in 2011); prime minister appointed by the
president, ratified by the National Assembly
election results: Rene PREVAL elected president; percent of vote -
Rene PREVAL 51%


Legislative branch:

bicameral National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale consists of the
Senate (30 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve six-year
terms; one-third elected every two years) and the Chamber of
Deputies (99 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
four-year terms); note - in reestablishing the Senate, the candidate
in each department receiving the most votes in the last election
serves six years, the candidate with the second most votes serves
four years, and the candidate with the third most votes serves two
years
elections: Senate - last held 21 April 2006 with run-off elections
on 3 December 2006 (next regular election, for one third of seats,
to be held in 2008); Chamber of Deputies - last held 21 April 2006
with run-off elections on 3 December 2006 and 29 April 2007 (next
regular election to be held in 2010)
election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - L'ESPWA 11, FUSION 5, OPL 4, FL 3, LAAA 2, UNCRH 2, PONT 2,
ALYANS 1; Chamber of Deputies - percent of vote by party - NA; seats
by party - L'ESPWA 23, FUSION 17, FRN 12, OPL 10, ALYANS 10, LAAA 5,
MPH 3, MOCHRENA 3, other 10; results for six other seats contested
on 3 December 2006 remain unknown


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court or Cour de Cassation


Political parties and leaders:

Artibonite in Action or LAAA [Youri LATORTUE]; Assembly of
Progressive National Democrats or RDNP [Leslie MANIGAT]; Convention
for Democratic Unity or KID [Evans PAUL]; Cooperative Action to
Build Haiti or KONBA [Evans LESCOUFALIR]; Democratic Alliance or
ALYANS [Evans PAUL] (coalition composed of KID and PPRH); Effort and
Solidarity to Create an Alternative for the People or ESKAMP [Joseph
JASME]; For Us All or PONT [Jean-Marie CHERESTAL]; Front for Hope or
L'ESPWA [Rene PREVAL] (alliance of ESKAMP, PLB, and grass-roots
organizations Grand-Anse Resistance Committee, the Central Plateau
Peasants' Group, and Kombit Sudest); Haitian Christian Democratic
Party or PDCH [Osner FEVRY and Marie-Denise CLAUDE]; Haitian
Democratic and Reform Movement or MODEREH [Dany TOUSSAINT and Pierre
Soncon PRINCE]; Heads Together or Tet-Ansanm [Dr. Gerard BLOT];
Independent Movement for National Reconciliation or MIRN [Luc
FLEURINORD]; Justice for Peace and National Development or JPDN
[Rigaud DUPLAN]; Fanmi Lavalas or FL [Rudy HERIVEAUX]; Liberal Party
of Haiti or PLH [Gehy MICHEL]; Merging of Haitian Social Democratic
Parties or FUSION or FPSDH [Serge GILLES] (coalition of Ayiti
Capable, Haitian National Revolutionary Party, and National Congress
of Democratic Movements); Mobilization for Haiti's Development or
MPH [Samir MOURRA]; Mobilization for National Development or MDN
[Hubert de RONCERAY]; Movement for National Reconstruction or MRN
[Jean Henold BUTEAU]; Movement for the Installation of Democracy in
Haiti or MIDH [Marc BAZIN]; National Christian Union for the
Reconstruction of Haiti or UNCRH [Marie Claude GERMAIN]; National
Front for the Reconstruction of Haiti or FRN [Guy PHILIPPE]; New
Christian Movement for a New Haiti or MOCHRENA [Luc MESADIEU]; Open
the Gate Party or PLB [Anes LUBIN]; Popular Party for the Renewal of
Haiti or PPRH [Claude ROMAIN]; Struggling People's Organization or
OPL [Edgard LEBLANC]; Union of Nationalist and Progressive Haitians
or UNITE [Edouard FRANCISQUE]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Autonomous Organizations of Haitian Workers or CATH [Fignole
ST-CYR]; Confederation of Haitian Workers or CTH; Federation of
Workers Trade Unions or FOS; General Organization of Independent
Haitian Workers [Patrick NUMAS]; Grand-Anse Resistance Committee, or
KOREGA; National Popular Assembly or APN; Papaye Peasants Movement
or MPP [Chavannes JEAN-BAPTISTE]; Popular Organizations Gathering
Power or PROP; Protestant Federation of Haiti; Roman Catholic Church


International organization participation:

ACP, Caricom, CDB, FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt
(signatory), ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol,
IOC, IOM, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES, MIGA, NAM, OAS, OIF, OPANAL, OPCW,
PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO,
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Raymond JOSEPH
chancery: 2311 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 332-4090
FAX: [1] (202) 745-7215
consulate(s) general: Boston, Chicago, Miami, New York, San Juan
(Puerto Rico)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Janet A. SANDERSON
embassy: Tabarre 41, Route de Tabarre, Port-au-Prince
mailing address: use mailing address
telephone: [509] 229-8000
FAX: [509] 229-8028


Flag description:

two equal horizontal bands of blue (top) and red with a centered
white rectangle bearing the coat of arms, which contains a palm tree
flanked by flags and two cannons above a scroll bearing the motto
L'UNION FAIT LA FORCE (Union Makes Strength)


Economy
Haiti



Economy - overview:

Haiti is the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere, with 80% of
the population living under the poverty line and 54% in abject
poverty. Two-thirds of all Haitians depend on the agricultural
sector, mainly small-scale subsistence farming, and remain
vulnerable to damage from frequent natural disasters, exacerbated by
the country's widespread deforestation. A macroeconomic program
developed in 2005 with the help of the International Monetary Fund
helped the economy grow 3.5% in 2007, the highest growth rate since
1999. US economic engagement under the Haitian Hemispheric
Opportunity through Partnership Encouragement (HOPE) Act, passed in
December 2006, has boosted the garment and automotive parts exports
and investment by providing tariff-free access to the US. Haiti
suffers from high inflation, a lack of investment because of
insecurity and limited infrastructure, and a severe trade deficit.
In 2005, Haiti paid its arrears to the World Bank, paving the way
for reengagement with the Bank. The government relies on formal
international economic assistance for fiscal sustainability.
Remittances are the primary source of foreign exchange, equaling
nearly a quarter of GDP and more than twice the earnings from
exports.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$11.38 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$5.435 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

3.2% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$1,300 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 28%
industry: 20%
services: 52% (2004 est.)


Labor force:

3.6 million
note: shortage of skilled labor, unskilled labor abundant (1995)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 66%
industry: 9%
services: 25% (1995)


Unemployment rate:

widespread unemployment and underemployment; more than two-thirds of
the labor force do not have formal jobs (2002 est.)


Population below poverty line:

80% (2003 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 0.7%
highest 10%: 47.7% (2001)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

59.2 (2001)


Investment (gross fixed):

28.9% of GDP (2006 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $815.9 million
expenditures: $802.2 million (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 October - 30 September


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

8.5% (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

46.99% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$704.7 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$1.561 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$1.537 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

coffee, mangoes, sugarcane, rice, corn, sorghum; wood


Industries:

sugar refining, flour milling, textiles, cement, light assembly
based on imported parts


Industrial production growth rate:

2.5% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

549 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

330 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 60.3%
hydro: 39.7%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

12,370 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

11,980 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$467 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$522 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

apparel, manufactures, oils, cocoa, mangoes, coffee


Exports - partners:

US 72.9%, Dominican Republic 8.8%, Canada 3.3% (2007)


Imports:

$1.734 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

food, manufactured goods, machinery and transport equipment, fuels,
raw materials


Imports - partners:

US 41.2%, Netherlands Antilles 14.9%, China 4.7%, Brazil 4.4% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$515 million (2005 est.)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$444 million (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$1.475 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

gourde (HTG)


Currency code:

HTG


Exchange rates:

gourdes (HTG) per US dollar - 37.138 (2007), 40.232 (2006), 40.449
(2005), 38.352 (2004), 42.367 (2003)


Communications
Haiti



Telephones - main lines in use:

150,000 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

2.2 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: domestic facilities barely adequate;
international facilities slightly better; telephone density in Haiti
remains the lowest in the Latin American and Caribbean region
domestic: coaxial cable and microwave radio relay trunk service;
combined fixed and mobile-cellular teledensity is about 25 per 100
persons
international: country code - 509; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 41, FM 26, shortwave 0 (1999)


Radios:

415,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

2 (plus a cable TV service) (1997)


Televisions:

38,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.ht


Internet hosts:

7 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

3 (2000)


Internet users:

1 million (2007)


Transportation
Haiti



Airports:

14 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 4
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 3 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 10
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 9 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 4,160 km
paved: 1,011 km
unpaved: 3,149 km (2000)


Ports and terminals:

Cap-Haitien


Military
Haiti



Military branches:

no regular military forces - small Coast Guard; the regular Haitian
Armed Forces (FAdH) - Army, Navy, and Air Force - have been
demobilized but still exist on paper unless they are
constitutionally abolished (2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,047,083
females age 16-49: 2,047,953 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,303,743
females age 16-49: 1,332,316 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 105,655
female: 104,376 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0.4% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Haiti



Disputes - international:

since 2004, about 8,000 peacekeepers from the UN Stabilization
Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH) maintain civil order in Haiti; despite
efforts to control illegal migration, Haitians cross into the
Dominican Republic and sail to neighboring countries; Haiti claims
US-administered Navassa Island


Illicit drugs:

Caribbean transshipment point for cocaine en route to the US and
Europe; substantial bulk cash smuggling activity; Colombian
narcotics traffickers favor Haiti for illicit financial
transactions; pervasive corruption; significant consumer of cannabis



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Heard Island and McDonald Islands

Introduction
Heard Island and McDonald Islands



Background:

These uninhabited, barren, sub-Antarctic islands were transferred
from the UK to Australia in 1947. Populated by large numbers of seal
and bird species, the islands have been designated a nature preserve.


Geography
Heard Island and McDonald Islands



Location:

islands in the Indian Ocean, about two-thirds of the way from
Madagascar to Antarctica


Geographic coordinates:

53 06 S, 72 31 E


Map references:

Antarctic Region


Area:

total: 412 sq km
land: 412 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly more than two times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

101.9 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm


Climate:

antarctic


Terrain:

Heard Island - 80% ice-covered, bleak and mountainous, dominated by
a large massif (Big Ben) and an active volcano (Mawson Peak);
McDonald Islands - small and rocky


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
highest point: Mawson Peak, on Big Ben 2,745 m


Natural resources:

fish


Land use:

arable land: 0%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 100% (2005)


Irrigated land:

0 sq km


Natural hazards:

Mawson Peak, an active volcano, is on Heard Island


Environment - current issues:

NA


Geography - note:

Mawson Peak on Heard Island is the highest Australian mountain (at
2,745 meters, it is taller than Mt. Kosciuszko in Australia proper),
and one of only two active volcanoes located in Australian
territory, the other being McDonald Island; in 1992, McDonald Island
broke its dormancy and began erupting; it has erupted several times
since, the most recent being in 2005


People
Heard Island and McDonald Islands



Population:

uninhabited


Government
Heard Island and McDonald Islands



Country name:

conventional long form: Territory of Heard Island and McDonald
Islands
conventional short form: Heard Island and McDonald Islands
abbreviation: HIMI


Dependency status:

territory of Australia; administered from Canberra by the Australian
Antarctic Division of the Department of the Environment, Water,
Heritage and the Arts


Legal system:

the laws of Australia, where applicable, apply


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (territory of Australia)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (territory of Australia)


Flag description:

the flag of Australia is used


Economy
Heard Island and McDonald Islands



Economy - overview:

The islands have no indigenous economic activity, but the Australian
Government allows limited fishing in the surrounding waters.


Communications
Heard Island and McDonald Islands



Internet country code:

.hm


Transportation
Heard Island and McDonald Islands



Ports and terminals:

none; offshore anchorage only


Military
Heard Island and McDonald Islands



Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of Australia; Australia conducts
fisheries patrols


Transnational Issues
Heard Island and McDonald Islands



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Holy See (Vatican City)

Introduction
Holy See (Vatican City)



Background:

Popes in their secular role ruled portions of the Italian peninsula
for more than a thousand years until the mid 19th century, when many
of the Papal States were seized by the newly united Kingdom of
Italy. In 1870, the pope's holdings were further circumscribed when
Rome itself was annexed. Disputes between a series of "prisoner"
popes and Italy were resolved in 1929 by three Lateran Treaties,
which established the independent state of Vatican City and granted
Roman Catholicism special status in Italy. In 1984, a concordat
between the Holy See and Italy modified certain of the earlier
treaty provisions, including the primacy of Roman Catholicism as the
Italian state religion. Present concerns of the Holy See include
religious freedom, international development, the environment, the
Middle East, China, the decline of religion in Europe, terrorism,
interreligious dialogue and reconciliation, and the application of
church doctrine in an era of rapid change and globalization. About
one billion people worldwide profess the Catholic faith.


Geography
Holy See (Vatican City)



Location:

Southern Europe, an enclave of Rome (Italy)


Geographic coordinates:

41 54 N, 12 27 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 0.44 sq km
land: 0.44 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

about 0.7 times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

total: 3.2 km
border countries: Italy 3.2 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

temperate; mild, rainy winters (September to May) with hot, dry
summers (May to September)


Terrain:

urban; low hill


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: unnamed location 19 m
highest point: unnamed location 75 m


Natural resources:

none


Land use:

arable land: 0%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 100% (urban area) (2005)


Irrigated land:

0 sq km


Natural hazards:

NA


Environment - current issues:

NA


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Climate Change
signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution, Environmental Modification


Geography - note:

landlocked; enclave in Rome, Italy; world's smallest state; beyond
the territorial boundary of Vatican City, the Lateran Treaty of 1929
grants the Holy See extraterritorial authority over 23 sites in Rome
and five outside of Rome, including the Pontifical Palace at Castel
Gandolfo (the Pope's summer residence)


People
Holy See (Vatican City)



Population:

824 (July 2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.003% (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: none
adjective: none


Ethnic groups:

Italians, Swiss, other


Religions:

Roman Catholic


Languages:

Italian, Latin, French, various other languages


Literacy:

definition: NA
total population: 100%
male: 100%
female: 100%


Government
Holy See (Vatican City)



Country name:

conventional long form: The Holy See (State of the Vatican City)
conventional short form: Holy See (Vatican City)
local long form: Santa Sede (Stato della Citta del Vaticano)
local short form: Santa Sede (Citta del Vaticano)


Government type:

ecclesiastical


Capital:

name: Vatican City
geographic coordinates: 41 54 N, 12 27 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

none


Independence:

11 February 1929 (from Italy); note - the three treaties signed with
Italy on 11 February 1929 acknowledged, among other things, the full
sovereignty of the Vatican and established its territorial extent;
however, the origin of the Papal States, which over the years have
varied considerably in extent, may be traced back to the 8th century


National holiday:

Coronation Day of Pope BENEDICT XVI, 24 April (2005)


Constitution:

new Fundamental Law promulgated by Pope JOHN PAUL II on 26 November
2000, effective 22 February 2001 (replaces the first Fundamental Law
of 1929)


Legal system:

based on Code of Canon Law and revisions to it


Suffrage:

limited to cardinals less than 80 years old


Executive branch:

chief of state: Pope BENEDICT XVI (since 19 April 2005)
head of government: Secretary of State Cardinal Tarcisio BERTONE
(since 15 September 2006)
cabinet: Pontifical Commission for the State of Vatican City
appointed by the pope
elections: pope elected for life by the College of Cardinals;
election last held 19 April 2005 (next to be held after the death of
the current pope); secretary of state appointed by the pope
election results: Joseph RATZINGER elected Pope BENEDICT XVI


Legislative branch:

unicameral Pontifical Commission for the State of Vatican City


Judicial branch:

there are three tribunals responsible for civil and criminal matters
within Vatican City; three other tribunals rule on issues pertaining
to the Holy See
note: judicial duties were established by the Motu Proprio of Pope
PIUS XII on 1 May 1946


Political parties and leaders:

none


Political pressure groups and leaders:

none (exclusive of influence exercised by church officers)


International organization participation:

CE (observer), IAEA, Interpol, IOM (observer), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, NAM
(guest), OAS (observer), OPCW, OSCE, UN (observer), UNCTAD, UNHCR,
Union Latina (observer), UNWTO (observer), UPU, WFTU, WIPO, WTO
(observer)


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Apostolic Nuncio Archbishop Pietro SAMBI
chancery: 3339 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 333-7121
FAX: [1] (202) 337-4036


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Mary Ann GLENDON
embassy: Villa Domiziana, Via delle Terme Deciane 26, 00153 Rome
mailing address: PSC 59, Box 66, APO AE 09624
telephone: [39] (06) 4674-3428
FAX: [39] (06) 575-8346


Flag description:

two vertical bands of yellow (hoist side) and white with the arms of
the Holy See, consisting of the crossed keys of Saint Peter
surmounted by the three-tiered papal tiara, centered in the white
band


Economy
Holy See (Vatican City)



Economy - overview:

This unique, noncommercial economy is supported financially by an
annual contribution (known as Peter's Pence) from Roman Catholic
dioceses throughout the world; by the sale of postage stamps, coins,
medals, and tourist mementos; by fees for admission to museums; and
by the sale of publications. Investments and real estate income also
account for a sizable portion of revenue. The incomes and living
standards of lay workers are comparable to those of counterparts who
work in the city of Rome.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$NA


Labor force:

NA


Labor force - by occupation:

note: essentially services with a small amount of industry; nearly
all dignitaries, priests, nuns, guards, and the approximately 3,000
lay workers live outside the Vatican


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Budget:

revenues: $310 million
expenditures: $307 million (2006)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Industries:

printing; production of coins, medals, postage stamps; a small
amount of mosaics and staff uniforms; worldwide banking and
financial activities


Electricity - production:

NA kWh


Electricity - consumption:

NA kWh


Electricity - imports:

NA kWh; note - electricity supplied by Italy


Currency (code):

euro (EUR)


Currency code:

EUR


Exchange rates:

euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006), 0.8041
(2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)


Communications
Holy See (Vatican City)



Telephones - main lines in use:

5,120 (2005)


Telephone system:

general assessment: automatic digital exchange
domestic: connected via fiber optic cable to Telecom Italia network
international: country code - 39; uses Italian system


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 4, FM 3, shortwave 2 (2004)


Radios:

NA


Television broadcast stations:

1 (2005)


Televisions:

NA


Internet country code:

.va


Internet hosts:

55 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

NA


Internet users:

93 (2000)



Military
Holy See (Vatican City)



Military branches:

Pontifical Swiss Guard (Corpo della Guardia Svizzera Pontificia)
(2007)


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of Italy; ceremonial and limited
security duties performed by Pontifical Swiss Guard


Transnational Issues
Holy See (Vatican City)



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Honduras

Introduction
Honduras



Background:

Once part of Spain's vast empire in the New World, Honduras became
an independent nation in 1821. After two and a half decades of
mostly military rule, a freely elected civilian government came to
power in 1982. During the 1980s, Honduras proved a haven for
anti-Sandinista contras fighting the Marxist Nicaraguan Government
and an ally to Salvadoran Government forces fighting leftist
guerrillas. The country was devastated by Hurricane Mitch in 1998,
which killed about 5,600 people and caused approximately $2 billion
in damage.


Geography
Honduras



Location:

Central America, bordering the Caribbean Sea, between Guatemala and
Nicaragua and bordering the Gulf of Fonseca (North Pacific Ocean),
between El Salvador and Nicaragua


Geographic coordinates:

15 00 N, 86 30 W


Map references:

Central America and the Caribbean


Area:

total: 112,090 sq km
land: 111,890 sq km
water: 200 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than Tennessee


Land boundaries:

total: 1,520 km
border countries: Guatemala 256 km, El Salvador 342 km, Nicaragua
922 km


Coastline:

820 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: natural extension of territory or to 200 nm


Climate:

subtropical in lowlands, temperate in mountains


Terrain:

mostly mountains in interior, narrow coastal plains


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
highest point: Cerro Las Minas 2,870 m


Natural resources:

timber, gold, silver, copper, lead, zinc, iron ore, antimony, coal,
fish, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 9.53%
permanent crops: 3.21%
other: 87.26% (2005)


Irrigated land:

800 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

95.9 cu km (2000)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.86 cu km/yr (8%/12%/80%)
per capita: 119 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

frequent, but generally mild, earthquakes; extremely susceptible to
damaging hurricanes and floods along the Caribbean coast


Environment - current issues:

urban population expanding; deforestation results from logging and
the clearing of land for agricultural purposes; further land
degradation and soil erosion hastened by uncontrolled development
and improper land use practices such as farming of marginal lands;
mining activities polluting Lago de Yojoa (the country's largest
source of fresh water), as well as several rivers and streams, with
heavy metals


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

has only a short Pacific coast but a long Caribbean shoreline,
including the virtually uninhabited eastern Mosquito Coast


People
Honduras



Population:

7,639,327
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 38.7% (male 1,508,835/female 1,446,530)
15-64 years: 57.8% (male 2,210,187/female 2,203,620)
65 years and over: 3.5% (male 121,839/female 148,316) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 20 years
male: 19.7 years
female: 20.4 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.024% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

26.93 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

5.36 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-1.33 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.82 male(s)/female
total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 24.61 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 27.63 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 21.43 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 69.37 years
male: 67.81 years
female: 71.01 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

3.38 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

1.8% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

63,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

4,100 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria
water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Honduran(s)
adjective: Honduran


Ethnic groups:

mestizo (mixed Amerindian and European) 90%, Amerindian 7%, black
2%, white 1%


Religions:

Roman Catholic 97%, Protestant 3%


Languages:

Spanish, Amerindian dialects


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 80%
male: 79.8%
female: 80.2% (2001 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 11 years
male: 11 years
female: 12 years (2004)


Education expenditures:

3.8% of GDP (1991)


Government
Honduras



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Honduras
conventional short form: Honduras
local long form: Republica de Honduras
local short form: Honduras


Government type:

democratic constitutional republic


Capital:

name: Tegucigalpa
geographic coordinates: 14 06 N, 87 13 W
time difference: UTC-6 (1 hour behind Washington, DC during Standard
Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins second Sunday in March; ends
first Sunday in November


Administrative divisions:

18 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento); Atlantida,
Choluteca, Colon, Comayagua, Copan, Cortes, El Paraiso, Francisco
Morazan, Gracias a Dios, Intibuca, Islas de la Bahia, La Paz,
Lempira, Ocotepeque, Olancho, Santa Barbara, Valle, Yoro


Independence:

15 September 1821 (from Spain)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 15 September (1821)


Constitution:

11 January 1982, effective 20 January 1982; amended many times


Legal system:

rooted in Roman and Spanish civil law with increasing influence of
English common law; recent judicial reforms include abandoning
Napoleonic legal codes in favor of the oral adversarial system;
accepts ICJ jurisdiction with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal and compulsory


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Jose Manuel ZELAYA Rosales (since 27
January 2006); Vice President Elvin Ernesto SANTOS Ordonez (since 27
January 2006); note - the president is both the chief of state and
head of government
head of government: President Jose Manuel ZELAYA Rosales (since 27
January 2006); Vice President Elvin Ernesto SANTOS Ordonez (since 27
January 2006)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by president
elections: president elected by popular vote for a four-year term;
election last held 27 November 2005 (next to be held in November
2009)
election results: Jose Manuel ZELAYA Rosales elected president -
49.8%, Porfirio "Pepe" LOBO Sosa 46.1%, other 4.1%


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Congress or Congreso Nacional (128 seats;
members are elected proportionally to the number of votes their
party's presidential candidate receives to serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 27 November 2005 (next to be held in November
2009)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - PL
62, PN 55, PUD 5, PDC 4, PINU 2


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court of Justice or Corte Suprema de Justicia (15 judges are
elected for seven-year terms by the National Congress)


Political parties and leaders:

Christian Democratic Party or PDC [Felicito AVILA]; Democratic
Unification Party or PUD [Cesar HAM]; Liberal Party or PL [Patricia
RODAS]; National Innovation and Unity Party or PINU [Jorge AQUILAR
Paredes]; National Party of Honduras or PN [Porfirio LOBO]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Committee for the Defense of Human Rights in Honduras or CODEH;
Confederation of Honduran Workers or CTH; Coordinating Committee of
Popular Organizations or CCOP; General Workers Confederation or CGT;
Honduran Council of Private Enterprise or COHEP; National
Association of Honduran Campesinos or ANACH; National Union of
Campesinos or UNC; Popular Bloc or BP; United Confederation of
Honduran Workers or CUTH


International organization participation:

BCIE, CACM, FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO
(subscriber), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES, LAIA (observer), MIGA, MINURSO,
NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union
Latina, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Roberto FLORES BERMUDEZ
chancery: Suite 4-M, 3007 Tilden Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 966-7702
FAX: [1] (202) 966-9751
consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami,
New Orleans, New York, Phoenix, San Francisco
honorary consulate(s): Boston, Detroit, Jacksonville


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Hugo LLORENS
embassy: Avenida La Paz, Apartado Postal No. 3453, Tegucigalpa
mailing address: American Embassy, APO AA 34022, Tegucigalpa
telephone: [504] 236-9320, 238-5114
FAX: [504] 238-4357


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), white, and blue with
five blue, five-pointed stars arranged in an X pattern centered in
the white band; the stars represent the members of the former
Federal Republic of Central America - Costa Rica, El Salvador,
Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua; similar to the flag of El
Salvador, which features a round emblem encircled by the words
REPUBLICA DE EL SALVADOR EN LA AMERICA CENTRAL centered in the white
band; also similar to the flag of Nicaragua, which features a
triangle encircled by the word REPUBLICA DE NICARAGUA on top and
AMERICA CENTRAL on the bottom, centered in the white band


Economy
Honduras



Economy - overview:

Honduras, the second poorest country in Central America and one of
the poorest countries in the Western Hemisphere, with an
extraordinarily unequal distribution of income and massive
unemployment, is banking on expanded trade under the US-Central
America Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA) and on debt relief under the
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative. Despite
improvements in tax collections, the government's fiscal deficit is
growing due to increases in current expenditures and financial
losses from the state energy and telephone companies. Honduras is
the fastest growing remittance destination in the region with
inflows representing over a quarter of GDP, equivalent to nearly
three-quarters of exports. The economy relies heavily on a narrow
range of exports, notably bananas and coffee, making it vulnerable
to natural disasters and shifts in commodity prices, however,
investments in the maquila and non-traditional export sectors are
slowly diversifying the economy. Growth remains dependent on the
economy of the US, its largest trading partner, and on reduction of
the high crime rate, as a means of attracting and maintaining
investment.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$32.26 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$12.28 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6.3% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$4,300 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 13.4%
industry: 28.1%
services: 58.6% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

2.779 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 34%
industry: 23%
services: 43% (2003 est.)


Unemployment rate:

27.8% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

50.7% (2004)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 1.2%
highest 10%: 42.2% (2003)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

53.8 (2003)


Investment (gross fixed):

30.4% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $2.344 billion
expenditures: $2.631 billion; including capital expenditures of $106
million (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

24.1% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

6.9% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

NA (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

16.61% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$1.573 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$5.266 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$6.298 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

bananas, coffee, citrus; beef; timber; shrimp, tilapia, lobster;
corn, African palm


Industries:

sugar, coffee, textiles, clothing, wood products


Industrial production growth rate:

4.4% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

5.753 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

4.233 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

11.8 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 50.2%
hydro: 49.8%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

46,830 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

417.9 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

44,040 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$1.225 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$5.594 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

coffee, shrimp, bananas, gold, palm oil, fruit, lobster, lumber


Exports - partners:

US 67.2%, El Salvador 4.9%, Guatemala 3.9% (2007)


Imports:

$8.556 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and transport equipment, industrial raw materials,
chemical products, fuels, foodstuffs


Imports - partners:

US 52.4%, Guatemala 7.1%, El Salvador 5.2%, Mexico 4.5%, Costa Rica
4.2% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$680.8 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$2.546 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$3.411 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

lempira (HNL)


Currency code:

HNL


Exchange rates:

lempiras (HNL) per US dollar - 18.9 (2007), 18.895 (2006), 18.92
(2005), 18.206 (2004), 17.345 (2003)


Communications
Honduras



Telephones - main lines in use:

713,600 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

2.241 million (2006)


Telephone system:

general assessment: inadequate system
domestic: beginning in 2003, private sub-operators allowed to
provide fixed-lines in order to expand telephone coverage;
fixed-line teledensity has increased to about 10 per 100 persons;
mobile-cellular telephone service has been increasing rapidly and
subscribership in 2006 exceeded 30 per 100 persons
international: country code - 504; landing point for both the
Americas Region Caribbean Ring System (ARCOS-1) and the MAYA-1 fiber
optic submarine cable system that together provide connectivity to
South and Central America, parts of the Caribbean, and the US;
satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean); connected to
Central American Microwave System


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 241, FM 53, shortwave 12 (1998)


Radios:

2.45 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

11 (plus 17 repeaters) (1997)


Televisions:

570,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.hn


Internet hosts:

13,370 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

8 (2000)


Internet users:

344,100 (2006)


Transportation
Honduras



Airports:

112 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 12
2,438 to 3,047 m: 3
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 4
under 914 m: 3 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 100
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 15
under 914 m: 83 (2007)


Railways:

total: 699 km
narrow gauge: 279 km 1.067-m gauge; 420 km 0.914-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 13,600 km
paved: 2,775 km
unpaved: 10,825 km (2000)


Waterways:

465 km (most navigable only by small craft) (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 123
by type: bulk carrier 10, cargo 57, chemical tanker 6, container 1,
liquefied gas 1, passenger 4, passenger/cargo 7, petroleum tanker
25, refrigerated cargo 7, roll on/roll off 4, specialized tanker 1
foreign-owned: 42 (Bangladesh 1, Canada 1, China 3, Egypt 3, Greece
4, Hong Kong 1, Israel 1, Japan 4, South Korea 6, Lebanon 1, Mexico
1, Singapore 12, Taiwan 2, Tanzania 1, Vietnam 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

La Ceiba, Puerto Cortes, San Lorenzo, Tela


Military
Honduras



Military branches:

Army, Navy (includes Naval Infantry), Honduran Air Force (Fuerza
Aerea Hondurena, FAH) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary 2 to 3-year military service (2004)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,868,940
females age 16-49: 1,825,770 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,359,406
females age 16-49: 1,371,418 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 90,876
female: 87,292 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0.6% of GDP (2006 est.)


Transnational Issues
Honduras



Disputes - international:

International Court of Justice (ICJ) ruled on the delimitation of
"bolsones" (disputed areas) along the El Salvador-Honduras border in
1992 with final settlement by the parties in 2006 after an
Organization of American States (OAS) survey and a further ICJ
ruling in 2003; the 1992 ICJ ruling advised a tripartite resolution
to a maritime boundary in the Gulf of Fonseca with consideration of
Honduran access to the Pacific; El Salvador continues to claim tiny
Conejo Island, not mentioned in the ICJ ruling, off Honduras in the
Gulf of Fonseca; Honduras claims the Belizean-administered Sapodilla
Cays off the coast of Belize in its constitution, but agreed to a
joint ecological park around the cays should Guatemala consent to a
maritime corridor in the Caribbean under the OAS-sponsored 2002
Belize-Guatemala Differendum; memorials and countermemorials were
filed by the parties in Nicaragua's 1999 and 2001 proceedings
against Honduras and Colombia at the ICJ over the maritime boundary
and territorial claims in the western Caribbean Sea - final public
hearings are scheduled for 2007


Illicit drugs:

transshipment point for drugs and narcotics; illicit producer of
cannabis, cultivated on small plots and used principally for local
consumption; corruption is a major problem; some money-laundering
activity



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Hong Kong

Introduction
Hong Kong



Background:

Occupied by the UK in 1841, Hong Kong was formally ceded by China
the following year; various adjacent lands were added later in the
19th century. Pursuant to an agreement signed by China and the UK on
19 December 1984, Hong Kong became the Hong Kong Special
Administrative Region (SAR) of China on 1 July 1997. In this
agreement, China promised that, under its "one country, two systems"
formula, China's socialist economic system would not be imposed on
Hong Kong and that Hong Kong would enjoy a high degree of autonomy
in all matters except foreign and defense affairs for the next 50
years.


Geography
Hong Kong



Location:

Eastern Asia, bordering the South China Sea and China


Geographic coordinates:

22 15 N, 114 10 E


Map references:

Southeast Asia


Area:

total: 1,092 sq km
land: 1,042 sq km
water: 50 sq km


Area - comparative:

six times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

total: 30 km
regional border: China 30 km


Coastline:

733 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 3 nm


Climate:

subtropical monsoon; cool and humid in winter, hot and rainy from
spring through summer, warm and sunny in fall


Terrain:

hilly to mountainous with steep slopes; lowlands in north


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: South China Sea 0 m
highest point: Tai Mo Shan 958 m


Natural resources:

outstanding deepwater harbor, feldspar


Land use:

arable land: 5.05%
permanent crops: 1.01%
other: 93.94% (2001)


Irrigated land:

20 sq km (1998 est.)


Natural hazards:

occasional typhoons


Environment - current issues:

air and water pollution from rapid urbanization


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Marine Dumping (associate member), Ship Pollution
(associate member)


Geography - note:

more than 200 islands


People
Hong Kong



Population:

7,018,636 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 12.6% (male 463,300/female 422,945)
15-64 years: 74.4% (male 2,535,246/female 2,684,495)
65 years and over: 13% (male 425,500/female 487,150) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 41.7 years
male: 41.4 years
female: 42 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.532% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

7.37 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

6.6 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

4.55 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.08 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.1 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.94 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.87 male(s)/female
total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 2.93 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 3.11 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 2.73 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 81.77 years
male: 79.07 years
female: 84.69 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.1% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

2,600 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 200 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Chinese/Hong Konger
adjective: Chinese/Hong Kong


Ethnic groups:

Chinese 95%, Filipino 1.6%, Indonesian 1.3%, other 2.1% (2006 census)


Religions:

eclectic mixture of local religions 90%, Christian 10%


Languages:

Chinese (Cantonese) 89.2% (official), other Chinese dialects 6.4%,
English 3.2% (official), other 1.2% (2001 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over has ever attended school
total population: 93.5%
male: 96.9%
female: 89.6% (2002)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 14 years
male: 14 years
female: 13 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

3.9% of GDP (2006)


Government
Hong Kong



Country name:

conventional long form: Hong Kong Special Administrative Region
conventional short form: Hong Kong
local long form: Xianggang Tebie Xingzhengqu
local short form: Xianggang
abbreviation: HK


Dependency status:

special administrative region of China


Government type:

limited democracy


Administrative divisions:

none (special administrative region of China)


Independence:

none (special administrative region of China)


National holiday:

National Day (Anniversary of the Founding of the People's Republic
of China), 1 October (1949); note - 1 July 1997 is celebrated as
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Establishment Day


Constitution:

Basic Law, approved in March 1990 by China's National People's
Congress, is Hong Kong's "mini-constitution"


Legal system:

based on English common law


Suffrage:

direct election - 18 years of age for a number of non-executive
positions; universal for permanent residents living in the territory
of Hong Kong for the past seven years; indirect election - limited
to about 220,000 members of functional constituencies and an
800-member election committee drawn from broad regional groupings,
central government bodies, and municipal organizations


Executive branch:

chief of state: President of China HU Jintao (since 15 March 2003)
head of government: Chief Executive Donald TSANG (since 24 June 2005)
cabinet: Executive Council consists of 15 official members and 16
non-official members
elections: chief executive elected for five-year term by 800-member
electoral committee; last held on 25 March 2007 (next to be held in
2012)
election results: Donald TSANG elected chief executive receiving
84.1% of the vote of the election committee; Alan LEONG received
15.9%


Legislative branch:

unicameral Legislative Council or LEGCO (60 seats; 30 seats
indirectly elected by functional constituencies, 30 elected by
popular vote; members serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 7 September 2008 (next to be held in September
2012)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by parties -
pro-Beijing 37; pro-democracy 23


Judicial branch:

Court of Final Appeal in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region


Political parties and leaders:

Association for Democracy and People's Livelihood or ADPL [Frederick
FUNG Kin-kee]; Citizens Party [Alex CHAN Kai-chung]; Civic Party
[KUAN Hsin-chi]; Democratic Alliance for the Betterment and Progress
of Hong Kong or DAB [TAM Yiu Cheng]; Democratic Party [Albert HO];
Frontier Party [Emily LAU Wai-hing]; League of Social Democrats
[Raymond WONG]; Liberal Party [James TIEN Pei-chun]
note: political blocs include: pro-democracy - ADPL, Democratic
Party, Frontier Party, League of Social Democrats; pro-Beijing -
DAB, Liberal Party, The Alliance (a group of five generally
pro-government and pro-business Legco members from functional
constituencies); there is no political party ordinance, so there are
no registered political parties; politically active groups register
as societies or companies


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Chinese General Chamber of Commerce (pro-China); Chinese
Manufacturers' Association of Hong Kong; Confederation of Trade
Unions or CTU (pro-democracy) [LAU Chin-shek, president; LEE
Cheuk-yan, general secretary]; Federation of Hong Kong Industries;
Federation of Trade Unions or FTU (pro-China) [CHENG Yiu-tong,
executive councilor]; Hong Kong Alliance in Support of the Patriotic
Democratic Movement in China [Szeto WAH, chairman]; Hong Kong and
Kowloon Trade Union Council (pro-Taiwan); Hong Kong General Chamber
of Commerce; Hong Kong Professional Teachers' Union [CHEUNG
Man-kwong, president]; Neighborhood and Workers' Service Center or
NWSC (pro-democracy); The Alliance [Bernard CHARNWUT, executive
committee member]


International organization participation:

ADB, APEC, BIS, ICC, IHO, IMF, IMO (associate), IOC, ISO
(correspondent), ITUC, UNWTO (associate), UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WMO,
WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (special administrative region of China); Hong Kong Economic
and Trade Office in Washington and two other cities carries out
normal liaison and communication with the US Government and other US
entities


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Consul General Joseph A. DONOVAN, Jr.
consulate(s) general: 26 Garden Road, Hong Kong
mailing address: PSC 461, Box 1, FPO AP 96521-0006
telephone: [852] 2523-9011
FAX: [852] 2845-1598


Flag description:

red with a stylized, white, five-petal bauhinia flower in the center


Economy
Hong Kong



Economy - overview:

Hong Kong has a free market economy highly dependent on
international trade. In 2006, the total value of goods and services
trade, including the sizable share of reexports, was equivalent to
400% of GDP. The territory has become increasingly integrated with
mainland China over the past few years through trade, tourism, and
financial links. The mainland has long been Hong Kong's largest
trading partner, accounting for 46% of Hong Kong's total trade by
value in 2006. As a result of China's easing of travel restrictions,
the number of mainland tourists to the territory has surged from 4.5
million in 2001 to 13.6 million in 2006, when they outnumbered
visitors from all other countries combined. Hong Kong has also
established itself as the premier stock market for Chinese firms
seeking to list abroad. Bolstered by several successful initial
public offerings in early 2007, by September 2007 mainland companies
accounted for one-third of the firms listed on the Hong Kong Stock
Exchange, and more than half of the Exchange's market
capitalization. During the past decade, as Hong Kong's manufacturing
industry moved to the mainland, its service industry has grown
rapidly and now accounts for 91% of the territory's GDP. Hong Kong's
natural resources are limited, and food and raw materials must be
imported. GDP growth averaged a strong 5% from 1989 to 2007, despite
the economy suffering two recessions during the Asian financial
crisis in 1997-98 and the global downturn in 2001-02. Hong Kong
continues to link its currency closely to the US dollar, maintaining
an arrangement established in 1983.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$293.3 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$206.7 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6.4% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$42,000 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 0.1%
industry: 8.1%
services: 91.7% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

3.64 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

manufacturing 6.5%, construction 2.1%, wholesale and retail trade,
restaurants, and hotels 43.3%, financing, insurance, and real estate
20.7%, transport and communications 7.8%, community and social
services 19.5%
note: above data exclude public sector (2007 est.)


Unemployment rate:

4% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

53.3 (2007)


Investment (gross fixed):

20.3% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $36.9 billion
expenditures: $29.4 billion (FY07-08 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 April - 31 March


Public debt:

12.5% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

5.75% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

6.75% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$51.25 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$578.1 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$259.7 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

fresh vegetables; poultry, pork; fish


Industries:

textiles, clothing, tourism, banking, shipping, electronics,
plastics, toys, watches, clocks


Industrial production growth rate:

-0.8% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

36.61 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

38.02 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

4.035 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

10.96 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

293,100 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

22,420 bbl/day (2006)


Oil - imports:

314,700 bbl/day (2006)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

2.69 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

2.69 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

$28.04 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$345.9 billion f.o.b., including reexports (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

electrical machinery and appliances, textiles, apparel, footwear,
watches and clocks, toys, plastics, precious stones, printed material


Exports - partners:

China 48.7%, US 13.7%, Japan 4.5% (2007)


Imports:

$365.6 billion (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

raw materials and semi-manufactures, consumer goods, capital goods,
foodstuffs, fuel (most is re-exported)


Imports - partners:

China 46.3%, Japan 10%, Taiwan 7.1%, Singapore 6.8%, US 4.9%, South
Korea 4.2% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$6.95 million (2004)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$152.7 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$588 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$1.185 trillion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$1.027 trillion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$2.97 trillion (2007 est.)


Currency (code):

Hong Kong dollar (HKD)


Currency code:

HKD


Exchange rates:

Hong Kong dollars (HKD) per US dollar - 7.802 (2007), 7.7678 (2006),
7.7773 (2005), 7.788 (2004), 7.7868 (2003)


Communications
Hong Kong



Telephones - main lines in use:

3.875 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

10.55 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: modern facilities provide excellent domestic and
international services
domestic: microwave radio relay links and extensive fiber-optic
network
international: country code - 852; multiple international submarine
cables provide connections to Asia, US, Australia, the Middle East,
and Western Europe; satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (1 Pacific
Ocean and 2 Indian Ocean); coaxial cable to Guangzhou, China


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 5, FM 9, shortwave 0 (2004)


Radios:

4.45 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

55 (2 TV networks, each broadcasting on 2 channels) (2007)


Televisions:

1.84 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.hk


Internet hosts:

817,766 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

17 (2000)


Internet users:

3.961 million (2007)


Transportation
Hong Kong



Airports:

2 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 2
over 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)


Heliports:

5 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 2,009 km
paved: 2,009 km (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 1,114
by type: barge carrier 2, bulk carrier 525, cargo 142, carrier 3,
chemical tanker 68, combination ore/oil 2, container 205, liquefied
gas 22, passenger 6, passenger/cargo 5, petroleum tanker 114, roll
on/roll off 4, specialized tanker 9, vehicle carrier 7
foreign-owned: 703 (Belgium 3, Canada 44, China 324, Denmark 24,
France 1, Germany 6, Greece 22, Indonesia 7, Iran 15, Japan 111,
South Korea 3, Norway 40, Philippines 1, Portugal 1, Russia 2,
Singapore 18, Syria 1, Taiwan 11, UAE 1, UK 39, US 29)
registered in other countries: 357 (Bahamas 30, Bermuda 4, Cambodia
8, China 12, Cyprus 2, Georgia 2, Honduras 1, India 1, Jamaica 1,
Kiribati 4, Liberia 44, Malaysia 14, Malta 1, Marshall Islands 4,
Mexico 1, Netherlands Antilles 2, Norway 20, Panama 130, Philippines
1, Portugal 2, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 6, Seychelles 1,
Sierra Leone 1, Singapore 47, Tuvalu 7, UK 2, Vietnam 1, unknown 8)
(2008)


Ports and terminals:

Hong Kong


Military
Hong Kong



Military branches:

no regular indigenous military forces; Hong Kong garrison of China's
People's Liberation Army (PLA) includes elements of the PLA Ground
Forces, PLA Navy, and PLA Air Force; these forces are under the
direct leadership of the Central Military Commission in Beijing and
under administrative control of the adjacent Guangzhou Military
Region (2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,772,820
females age 16-49: 1,941,448 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,438,165
females age 16-49: 1,561,252 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 42,173
female: 38,753 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

NA


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of China


Transnational Issues
Hong Kong



Disputes - international:

none


Illicit drugs:

despite strenuous law enforcement efforts, faces difficult
challenges in controlling transit of heroin and methamphetamine to
regional and world markets; modern banking system provides conduit
for money laundering; rising indigenous use of synthetic drugs,
especially among young people



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Hungary

Introduction
Hungary



Background:

Hungary became a Christian kingdom in A.D. 1000 and for many
centuries served as a bulwark against Ottoman Turkish expansion in
Europe. The kingdom eventually became part of the polyglot
Austro-Hungarian Empire, which collapsed during World War I. The
country fell under Communist rule following World War II. In 1956, a
revolt and an announced withdrawal from the Warsaw Pact were met
with a massive military intervention by Moscow. Under the leadership
of Janos KADAR in 1968, Hungary began liberalizing its economy,
introducing so-called "Goulash Communism." Hungary held its first
multiparty elections in 1990 and initiated a free market economy. It
joined NATO in 1999 and the EU in 2004.


Geography
Hungary



Location:

Central Europe, northwest of Romania


Geographic coordinates:

47 00 N, 20 00 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 93,030 sq km
land: 92,340 sq km
water: 690 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Indiana


Land boundaries:

total: 2,185 km
border countries: Austria 366 km, Croatia 329 km, Romania 443 km,
Serbia 166 km, Slovakia 676 km, Slovenia 102 km, Ukraine 103 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

temperate; cold, cloudy, humid winters; warm summers


Terrain:

mostly flat to rolling plains; hills and low mountains on the
Slovakian border


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Tisza River 78 m
highest point: Kekes 1,014 m


Natural resources:

bauxite, coal, natural gas, fertile soils, arable land


Land use:

arable land: 49.58%
permanent crops: 2.06%
other: 48.36% (2005)


Irrigated land:

2,300 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

120 cu km (2005)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 21.03 cu km/yr (9%/59%/32%)
per capita: 2,082 cu m/yr (2001)


Environment - current issues:

the upgrading of Hungary's standards in waste management, energy
efficiency, and air, soil, and water pollution to meet EU
requirements will require large investments


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

landlocked; strategic location astride main land routes between
Western Europe and Balkan Peninsula as well as between Ukraine and
Mediterranean basin; the north-south flowing Duna (Danube) and Tisza
Rivers divide the country into three large regions


People
Hungary



Population:

9,930,915 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 15.2% (male 774,092/female 730,485)
15-64 years: 69.3% (male 3,393,630/female 3,488,011)
65 years and over: 15.6% (male 559,483/female 985,214) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 39.1 years
male: 36.8 years
female: 41.8 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

-0.254% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

9.59 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

12.99 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

0.86 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.97 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.57 male(s)/female
total population: 0.91 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 8.03 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 8.74 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 7.29 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 73.18 years
male: 69 years
female: 77.62 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.34 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

2,800 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 100 (2001 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: intermediate
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A
vectorborne diseases: tickborne encephalitis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Hungarian(s)
adjective: Hungarian


Ethnic groups:

Hungarian 92.3%, Roma 1.9%, other or unknown 5.8% (2001 census)


Religions:

Roman Catholic 51.9%, Calvinist 15.9%, Lutheran 3%, Greek Catholic
2.6%, other Christian 1%, other or unspecified 11.1%, unaffiliated
14.5% (2001 census)


Languages:

Hungarian 93.6%, other or unspecified 6.4% (2001 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99.4%
male: 99.5%
female: 99.3% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 15 years
male: 15 years
female: 16 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

5.5% of GDP (2005)


Government
Hungary



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Hungary
conventional short form: Hungary
local long form: Magyar Koztarsasag
local short form: Magyarorszag


Government type:

parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Budapest
geographic coordinates: 47 30 N, 19 05 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

19 counties (megyek, singular - megye), 23 urban counties (singular
- megyei varos), and 1 capital city (fovaros)
counties: Bacs-Kiskun, Baranya, Bekes, Borsod-Abauj-Zemplen,
Csongrad, Fejer, Gyor-Moson-Sopron, Hajdu-Bihar, Heves,
Jasz-Nagykun-Szolnok, Komarom-Esztergom, Nograd, Pest, Somogy,
Szabolcs-Szatmar-Bereg, Tolna, Vas, Veszprem, Zala
urban counties: Bekescsaba, Debrecen, Dunaujvaros, Eger, Erd, Gyor,
Hodmezovasarhely, Kaposvar, Kecskemet, Miskolc, Nagykanizsa,
Nyiregyhaza, Pecs, Salgotarjan, Sopron, Szeged, Szekesfehervar,
Szekszard, Szolnok, Szombathely, Tatabanya, Veszprem, Zalaegerszeg
capital city: Budapest


Independence:

25 December 1000 (crowning of King STEPHEN I, traditional founding
date)


National holiday:

Saint Stephen's Day, 20 August


Constitution:

18 August 1949, effective 20 August 1949; revised 19 April 1972; 18
October 1989 revision ensured legal rights for individuals and
constitutional checks on the authority of the prime minister and
also established the principle of parliamentary oversight; 1997
amendment streamlined the judicial system


Legal system:

based on the German-Austrian legal system; accepts compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Laszlo SOLYOM (since 5 August 2005)
head of government: Prime Minister Ferenc GYURCSANY (since 29
September 2004)
cabinet: Council of Ministers prime minister elected by the National
Assembly on the recommendation of the president; other ministers
proposed by the prime minister and appointed and relieved of their
duties by the president
elections: president elected by the National Assembly for a
five-year term (eligible for a second term); election last held 6-7
June 2005 (next to be held by June 2010); prime minister elected by
the National Assembly on the recommendation of the president;
election last held 29 September 2004
election results: Laszlo SOLYOM elected president by a simple
majority in the third round of voting, 185 to 182; Ferenc GYURCSANY
elected prime minister; result of legislative vote - 197 to 12
note: to be elected, the president must win two-thirds of
legislative vote in the first two rounds or a simple majority in the
third round


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly or Orszaggyules (386 seats; members are
elected by popular vote under a system of proportional and direct
representation to serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 9 and 23 April 2006 (next to be held in April
2010)
election results: percent of vote by party (5% or more of the vote
required for parliamentary representation in the first round) - MSzP
43.2%, Fidesz-KDNP 42%, SzDSz 6.5%, MDF 5%, other 3.3%; seats by
party - MSzP 190, Fidesz-KDNP 164, SzDSz 20, MDF 11, independent 1;
seats by party as of September 2008 - MSzP 189, Fidesz-KDNP 162,
SzDSz 20, MDF 11, independent 3, vacant 1


Judicial branch:

Constitutional Court (judges are elected by the National Assembly
for nine-year terms)


Political parties and leaders:

Alliance of Free Democrats or SzDSz [Gabor FODOR]; Christian
Democratic People's Party or KDNP [Zsolt SEMJEN]; Hungarian Civic
Alliance or Fidesz [Viktor ORBAN, chairman]; Hungarian Democratic
Forum or MDF [Ibolya DAVID]; Hungarian Socialist Party or MSzP
[Ferenc GYURCSANY]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Air Work Group (works to reduce air pollution in towns and cities);
Company For Freedom Rights (Tarsasag a Szabadsagjogokert) or TASZ
(personal data protection); Danube Circle (protests the building of
the Gabchikovo-Nagymaros dam); Green Future (protests the impact of
lead contamination of local factory on health of the people);
environmentalists: Hungarian Ornithological and Nature Conservation
Society (Magyar Madartani Egyesulet)or MME; Green Alternative (Zold
Alternativa)


International organization participation:

Australia Group, BIS, CE, CEI, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, ESA
(cooperating state), EU, FAO, G-9, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt,
ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURSO, NAM (guest), NATO, NEA,
NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OIF (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PCA, Schengen
Convention, SECI, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL,
UNOMIG, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WEU (associate), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
WTO, ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Ferenc SOMOGYI
chancery: 3910 Shoemaker Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 362-6730
FAX: [1] (202) 966-8135
consulate(s) general: Chicago, Los Angeles, New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador April H. FOLEY
embassy: Szabadsag ter 12, H-1054 Budapest
mailing address: pouch: American Embassy Budapest, 5270 Budapest
Place, US Department of State, Washington, DC 20521-5270
telephone: [36] (1) 475-4400
FAX: [36] (1) 475-4764


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and green


Economy
Hungary



Economy - overview:

Hungary has made the transition from a centrally planned to a market
economy, with a per capita income nearly two-thirds that of the
EU-25 average. The private sector accounts for more than 80% of GDP.
Foreign ownership of and investment in Hungarian firms are
widespread, with cumulative foreign direct investment totaling more
than $60 billion since 1989. Hungary issues investment-grade
sovereign debt. International observers, however, have expressed
concerns over Hungary's fiscal and current account deficits. In
2007, Hungary eliminated a trade deficit that had persisted for
several years. Inflation declined from 14% in 1998 to a low of 3.7%
in 2006, but jumped to 7.8% in 2007. Unemployment has persisted
above 6%. Hungary's labor force participation rate of 57% is one of
the lowest in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development (OECD). Germany is by far Hungary's largest economic
partner. Policy challenges include cutting the public sector deficit
to 4% of GDP by 2008, from about 6% in 2007. The government's
austerity program of tax hikes and subsidy cuts has reduced
Hungary's large budget deficit, but the reforms have dampened
domestic consumption, slowing GDP growth to about 2% in 2007. The
government will need to pass additional reforms to ensure the
long-term stability of public finances. The government plans to
eventually lower its public sector deficit to below 3% of GDP to
adopt the euro.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$191.7 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$138.4 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

1.3% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$19,300 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 2.8%
industry: 31.5%
services: 65.8% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

4.19 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 5.5%
industry: 33.3%
services: 61.2% (2003)


Unemployment rate:

7.3% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

8.6% (1993 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 4%
highest 10%: 22.2% (2002)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

28 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

20.9% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $64 billion
expenditures: $71.87 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

67% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

8% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

7.5% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

9.09% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$36.78 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$43.07 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$109.5 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

wheat, corn, sunflower seed, potatoes, sugar beets; pigs, cattle,
poultry, dairy products


Industries:

mining, metallurgy, construction materials, processed foods,
textiles, chemicals (especially pharmaceuticals), motor vehicles


Industrial production growth rate:

3.5% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

37.66 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

37.11 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

10.69 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

14.68 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 60.1%
hydro: 0.5%
nuclear: 39%
other: 0.3% (2001)


Oil - production:

32,580 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

162,800 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

66,660 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

178,400 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

20.18 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

2.545 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

13.36 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

138 million cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

10.45 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

8.098 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$8.018 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$87.77 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

machinery and equipment 61.1%, other manufactures 28.7%, food
products 6.5%, raw materials 2%, fuels and electricity 1.6% (2003)


Exports - partners:

Germany 28.1%, Italy 5.6%, France 4.7%, Austria 4.6%, Romania 4.5%,
UK 4.5%, Slovakia 4.2%, Poland 4.2% (2007)


Imports:

$86.88 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment 51.6%, other manufactures 35.7%, fuels and
electricity 7.7%, food products 3.1%, raw materials 2.0% (2003)


Imports - partners:

Germany 26.6%, China 7.8%, Russia 6.9%, Austria 6.1%, Italy 4.5%,
France 4.3%, Netherlands 4.3% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$302.6 million (2004)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$24.05 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$125.9 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$108.6 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$45.54 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$41.93 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

forint (HUF)


Currency code:

HUF


Exchange rates:

forints (HUF) per US dollar - 186.16 (2007), 210.39 (2006), 199.58
(2005), 202.75 (2004), 224.31 (2003)


Communications
Hungary



Telephones - main lines in use:

3.251 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

11.03 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: the telephone system has been modernized and is
capable of satisfying all requests for telecommunication service
domestic: the system is digitalized and highly automated; trunk
services are carried by fiber-optic cable and digital microwave
radio relay; a program for fiber-optic subscriber connections was
initiated in 1996; competition among mobile-cellular service
providers has led to a sharp increase in the use of mobile cellular
phones since 2000 and a decrease in the number of fixed-line
connections
international: country code - 36; Hungary has fiber-optic cable
connections with all neighboring countries; the international switch
is in Budapest; satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic
Ocean and Indian Ocean regions), 1 Inmarsat, 1 very small aperture
terminal (VSAT) system of ground terminals


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 17, FM 57, shortwave 3 (1998)


Radios:

7.01 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

35 (plus 161 repeaters) (1995)


Televisions:

4.42 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.hu


Internet hosts:

1.879 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

16 (2000)


Internet users:

4.2 million (2007)


Transportation
Hungary



Airports:

46 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 20
over 3,047 m: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 8
1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
914 to 1,523 m: 4
under 914 m: 2 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 26
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
914 to 1,523 m: 11
under 914 m: 10 (2007)


Heliports:

5 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 4,397 km; oil 990 km; refined products 335 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 8,057 km
broad gauge: 36 km 1.524-m gauge
standard gauge: 7,802 km 1.435-m gauge (2,628 km electrified)
narrow gauge: 219 km 0.760-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 159,568 km
paved: 70,050 km (30,874 km of interurban roads including 626 km of
expressways)
unpaved: 89,518 km (2005)


Waterways:

1,622 km (most on Danube River) (2007)


Ports and terminals:

Budapest, Dunaujvaros, Gyor-Gonyu, Csepel, Baja, Mohacs (2003)


Military
Hungary



Military branches:

Ground Forces, Hungarian Air Force (Magyar Legiero, ML) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service; conscription
abolished in June 2004; 6-month service obligation, with reserve
obligation to age 50 (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,391,400
females age 16-49: 2,337,240 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,890,105
females age 16-49: 1,943,422 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 62,197
female: 59,267 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.75% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Hungary



Disputes - international:

bilateral government, legal, technical and economic working group
negotiations continue in 2006 with Slovakia over Hungary's failure
to complete its portion of the Gabcikovo-Nagymaros hydroelectric dam
project along the Danube; as a member state that forms part of the
EU's external border, Hungary has implemented the strict Schengen
border rules


Illicit drugs:

transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin and cannabis and for
South American cocaine destined for Western Europe; limited producer
of precursor chemicals, particularly for amphetamine and
methamphetamine; efforts to counter money laundering, related to
organized crime and drug trafficking, are improving, but remain
vulnerable; significant consumer of ecstasy



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Iceland

Introduction
Iceland



Background:

Settled by Norwegian and Celtic (Scottish and Irish) immigrants
during the late 9th and 10th centuries A.D., Iceland boasts the
world's oldest functioning legislative assembly, the Althing,
established in 930. Independent for over 300 years, Iceland was
subsequently ruled by Norway and Denmark. Fallout from the Askja
volcano of 1875 devastated the Icelandic economy and caused
widespread famine. Over the next quarter century, 20% of the
island's population emigrated, mostly to Canada and the US. Limited
home rule from Denmark was granted in 1874 and complete independence
attained in 1944. Literacy, longevity, income, and social cohesion
are first-rate by world standards.


Geography
Iceland



Location:

Northern Europe, island between the Greenland Sea and the North
Atlantic Ocean, northwest of the UK


Geographic coordinates:

65 00 N, 18 00 W


Map references:

Arctic Region


Area:

total: 103,000 sq km
land: 100,250 sq km
water: 2,750 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Kentucky


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

4,970 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin


Climate:

temperate; moderated by North Atlantic Current; mild, windy winters;
damp, cool summers


Terrain:

mostly plateau interspersed with mountain peaks, icefields; coast
deeply indented by bays and fiords


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Hvannadalshnukur 2,110 m (at Vatnajokull glacier)


Natural resources:

fish, hydropower, geothermal power, diatomite


Land use:

arable land: 0.07%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 99.93% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Total renewable water resources:

170 cu km (2005)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.17 cu km/yr (34%/66%/0%)
per capita: 567 cu m/yr (2003)


Natural hazards:

earthquakes and volcanic activity


Environment - current issues:

water pollution from fertilizer runoff; inadequate wastewater
treatment


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
Kyoto Protocol, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Transboundary Air Pollution, Wetlands,
Whaling
signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification, Marine Life
Conservation


Geography - note:

strategic location between Greenland and Europe; westernmost
European country; Reykjavik is the northernmost national capital in
the world; more land covered by glaciers than in all of continental
Europe


People
Iceland



Population:

304,367 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 21% (male 32,500/female 31,566)
15-64 years: 67% (male 103,231/female 100,545)
65 years and over: 12% (male 16,530/female 19,995) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 34.8 years
male: 34.4 years
female: 35.3 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.783% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

13.5 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

6.81 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

1.13 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.04 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.83 male(s)/female
total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 3.25 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 3.39 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 3.1 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 80.55 years
male: 78.43 years
female: 82.76 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.91 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.2% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

220 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 100 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Icelander(s)
adjective: Icelandic


Ethnic groups:

homogeneous mixture of descendants of Norse and Celts 94%,
population of foreign origin 6%


Religions:

Lutheran Church of Iceland 82.1%, Roman Catholic Church 2.4%,
Reykjavik Free Church 2.3%, Hafnarfjorour Free Church 1.6%, other
Christian 2.8%, other religions 0.9%, unaffiliated 2.6%, other or
unspecified 5.5% (2006 est.)


Languages:

Icelandic, English, Nordic languages, German widely spoken


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99%
male: 99%
female: 99% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 18 years
male: 17 years
female: 19 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

7.6% of GDP (2004)


Government
Iceland



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Iceland
conventional short form: Iceland
local long form: Lydveldid Island
local short form: Island


Government type:

constitutional republic


Capital:

name: Reykjavik
geographic coordinates: 64 09 N, 21 57 W
time difference: UTC (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

8 regions; Austurland, Hofudhborgarsvaedhi, Nordhurland Eystra,
Nordhurland Vestra, Sudhurland, Sudhurnes, Vestfirdhir, Vesturland


Independence:

1 December 1918 (became a sovereign state under the Danish Crown);
17 June 1944 (from Denmark)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 17 June (1944)


Constitution:

16 June 1944, effective 17 June 1944; amended many times


Legal system:

civil law system based on Danish law; has not accepted compulsory
ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Olafur Ragnar GRIMSSON (since 1 August
1996)
head of government: Prime Minister Geir H. HAARDE (since 7 June 2006)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the prime minister
elections: president, largely a ceremonial post, is elected by
popular vote for a four-year term (no term limits); election last
held 26 June 2004 (next to be held in June 2008); following
legislative elections, the leader of the majority party or the
leader of the majority coalition is usually the prime minister
election results: Olafur Ragnar GRIMSSON 85.6%, Baldur AGUSTSSON
12.5%, Astthor MAGNUSSON 1.9%


Legislative branch:

unicameral Parliament or Althing (63 seats; members are elected by
popular vote to serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 12 May 2007 (next to be held by May 2011)
election results: percent of vote by party - Independence Party
36.6%, Social Democratic Alliance 26.8%, Progressive Party 11.7%,
Left-Green Movement 14.3%, Liberal Party 7.3%, other 3.3%; seats by
party - Independence Party 25, Social Democratic Alliance 18,
Progressive Party 7, Left-Green Alliance 9, Liberal Party 4


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court or Haestirettur (justices are appointed for life by
the Minister of Justice); eight district courts (justices are
appointed for life by the Minister of Justice)


Political parties and leaders:

Independence Party or IP [Geir H. HAARDE]; Left-Green Movement or
LGM [Steingrimur SIGFUSSON]; Liberal Party or LP [Gudjon
KRISTJANSSON]; Progressive Party or PP [Gudni AGUSTSSON]; Social
Democratic Alliance or SDA [Ingibjorg Solrun GISLADOTTIR] (includes
People's Alliance or PA, Social Democratic Party or SDP, Women's
List)


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Icelandic Psychiatric Human Rights Group


International organization participation:

Arctic Council, Australia Group, BIS, CBSS, CE, EAPC, EBRD, EFTA,
FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO,
ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA,
NATO, NC, NEA, NIB, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, Schengen
Convention, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU, WCO, WEU (associate), WFTU,
WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Albert JONSSON
chancery: Suite 1200, 1156 15th Street NW, Washington, DC 20005-1704
telephone: [1] (202) 265-6653
FAX: [1] (202) 265-6656
consulate(s) general: New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Carol VAN VOORST
embassy: Laufasvegur 21, 101 Reykjavik
mailing address: US Department of State, 5640 Reykjavik Place,
Washington, D.C. 20521-5640
telephone: [354] 562-9100
FAX: [354] 562-9118


Flag description:

blue with a red cross outlined in white extending to the edges of
the flag; the vertical part of the cross is shifted to the hoist
side in the style of the Dannebrog (Danish flag)


Economy
Iceland



Economy - overview:

Iceland's Scandinavian-type economy is basically capitalistic, yet
with an extensive welfare system (including generous housing
subsidies), low unemployment, and remarkably even distribution of
income. In the absence of other natural resources (except for
abundant geothermal power), the economy depends heavily on the
fishing industry, which provides 70% of export earnings and employs
6% of the work force. The economy remains sensitive to declining
fish stocks as well as to fluctuations in world prices for its main
exports: fish and fish products, aluminum, and ferrosilicon.
Substantial foreign investment in the aluminum and hydropower
sectors has boosted economic growth which, nevertheless, has been
volatile and characterized by recurrent imbalances. Government
policies include reducing the current account deficit, limiting
foreign borrowing, containing inflation, revising agricultural and
fishing policies, and diversifying the economy. The government
remains opposed to EU membership, primarily because of Icelanders'
concern about losing control over their fishing resources. Iceland's
economy has been diversifying into manufacturing and service
industries in the last decade, and new developments in software
production, biotechnology, and financial services are taking place.
The tourism sector is also expanding, with the recent trends in
ecotourism and whale watching. The 2006 closure of the US military
base at Keflavik had very little impact on the national economy;
Iceland's low unemployment rate aided former base employees in
finding alternate employment.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$12.19 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$20 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

3.8% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$40,400 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 5.2%
industry: 25.7%
services: 69.1% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

181,000 (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 5.1%
industry: 23%
services: 71.8% (2005)


Unemployment rate:

1% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

25 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

27.5% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $9.64 billion
expenditures: $8.602 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

27.6% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

5.1% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

15.25% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

19.29% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$6.64 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$15.05 billion (31 December 2006)


Stock of domestic credit:

$49.67 billion (31 December 2006)


Agriculture - products:

potatoes, green vegetables; mutton, dairy products; fish


Industries:

fish processing; aluminum smelting, ferrosilicon production;
geothermal power, tourism


Industrial production growth rate:

9% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

11.71 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

9.312 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 0.1%
hydro: 82.5%
nuclear: 0%
other: 17.5% (geothermal) (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

21,120 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

860.8 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

17,450 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$3.189 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$4.793 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

fish and fish products 70%, aluminum, animal products, ferrosilicon,
diatomite


Exports - partners:

Netherlands 21.3%, Germany 13.3%, UK 13.2%, Ireland 7.7%, US 7.3%,
Spain 4.6%, Japan 4.3% (2007)


Imports:

$6.181 billion (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, petroleum products, foodstuffs, textiles


Imports - partners:

US 13.7%, Germany 12.2%, Sweden 10.2%, Denmark 7.5%, Netherlands
5.7%, UK 5.4%, China 5.1%, Norway 4.6% (2007)


Economic aid - donor:

$6.7 million (2004)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$2.436 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$3.073 billion (2002)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$NA


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$27.8 billion (2005)


Currency (code):

Icelandic krona (ISK)


Currency code:

ISK


Exchange rates:

Icelandic kronur (ISK) per US dollar - 63.391 (2007), 70.195 (2006),
62.982 (2005), 70.192 (2004), 76.709 (2003)


Communications
Iceland



Telephones - main lines in use:

186,700 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

347,500 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: telecommunications infrastructure is modern and
fully digitized, with satellite-earth stations, fiber-optic cables,
and an extensive broadband network
domestic: liberalization of the telecommunications sector beginning
in the late 1990s has led to increased competition especially in the
mobile services segment of the market
international: country code - 354; the CANTAT-3 and FARICE-1
submarine cable systems provide connectivity to Canada, the Faroe
Islands, UK, Denmark, and Germany; a planned new section of the
Hibernia-Atlantic submarine cable will provide additional
connectivity to Canada, US, and Ireland; satellite earth stations -
2 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean), 1 Inmarsat (Atlantic and Indian Ocean
regions); note - Iceland shares the Inmarsat earth station with the
other Nordic countries (Denmark, Finland, Norway, and Sweden)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 3, FM about 70 (including repeaters), shortwave 1 (1998)


Radios:

260,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

14 (plus 156 repeaters) (1997)


Televisions:

98,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.is


Internet hosts:

263,980 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

20 (2001)


Internet users:

202,300 (2007)


Transportation
Iceland



Airports:

99 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 5
over 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 94
1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
914 to 1,523 m: 28
under 914 m: 63 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 13,058 km
paved/oiled gravel: 4,397 km (does not include urban roads)
unpaved: 8,661 km (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 2
by type: passenger/cargo 2
registered in other countries: 37 (Antigua and Barbuda 12, Bahamas
1, Belize 2, Denmark 2, Faroe Islands 1, Gibraltar 1, Malta 5,
Marshall Islands 3, Norway 3, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 7)
(2008)


Ports and terminals:

Grundartangi, Hafnarfjordur, Reykjavik


Military
Iceland



Military branches:

no regular military forces; Icelandic National Police (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 74,896 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 62,342 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 2,393
female: 2,317 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0% of GDP (2005 est.)


Military - note:

Iceland has no standing military force; under a 1951 bilateral
agreement - still valid - its defense was provided by the US-manned
Icelandic Defense Force (IDF) headquartered at Keflavik; however,
all US military forces in Iceland were withdrawn as of October 2006;
although wartime defense of Iceland remains a NATO commitment, in
April 2007, Iceland and Norway signed a bilateral agreement
providing for Norwegian aerial surveillance and defense of Icelandic
airspace (2008)


Transnational Issues
Iceland



Disputes - international:

Iceland, the UK, and Ireland dispute Denmark's claim that the Faroe
Islands' continental shelf extends beyond 200 nm



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@India

Introduction
India



Background:

Aryan tribes from the northwest infiltrated onto the Indian
subcontinent about 1500 B.C.; their merger with the earlier
Dravidian inhabitants created the classical Indian culture. The
Maurya Empire of the 4th and 3rd centuries B.C. - which reached its
zenith under ASHOKA - united much of South Asia. The Golden Age
ushered in by the Gupta dynasty (4th to 6th centuries A.D.) saw a
flowering of Indian science, art, and culture. Arab incursions
starting in the 8th century and Turkic in the 12th were followed by
those of European traders, beginning in the late 15th century. By
the 19th century, Britain had assumed political control of virtually
all Indian lands. Indian armed forces in the British army played a
vital role in both World Wars. Nonviolent resistance to British
colonialism led by Mohandas GANDHI and Jawaharlal NEHRU brought
independence in 1947. The subcontinent was divided into the secular
state of India and the smaller Muslim state of Pakistan. A third war
between the two countries in 1971 resulted in East Pakistan becoming
the separate nation of Bangladesh. India's nuclear weapons testing
in 1998 caused Pakistan to conduct its own tests that same year. The
dispute between the countries over the state of Kashmir is ongoing,
but discussions and confidence-building measures have led to
decreased tensions since 2002. Despite impressive gains in economic
investment and output, India faces pressing problems such as
significant overpopulation, environmental degradation, extensive
poverty, and ethnic and religious strife.


Geography
India



Location:

Southern Asia, bordering the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal,
between Burma and Pakistan


Geographic coordinates:

20 00 N, 77 00 E


Map references:

Asia


Area:

total: 3,287,590 sq km
land: 2,973,190 sq km
water: 314,400 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly more than one-third the size of the US


Land boundaries:

total: 14,103 km
border countries: Bangladesh 4,053 km, Bhutan 605 km, Burma 1,463
km, China 3,380 km, Nepal 1,690 km, Pakistan 2,912 km


Coastline:

7,000 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin


Climate:

varies from tropical monsoon in south to temperate in north


Terrain:

upland plain (Deccan Plateau) in south, flat to rolling plain along
the Ganges, deserts in west, Himalayas in north


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
highest point: Kanchenjunga 8,598 m


Natural resources:

coal (fourth-largest reserves in the world), iron ore, manganese,
mica, bauxite, titanium ore, chromite, natural gas, diamonds,
petroleum, limestone, arable land


Land use:

arable land: 48.83%
permanent crops: 2.8%
other: 48.37% (2005)


Irrigated land:

558,080 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

1,907.8 cu km (1999)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 645.84 cu km/yr (8%/5%/86%)
per capita: 585 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

droughts; flash floods, as well as widespread and destructive
flooding from monsoonal rains; severe thunderstorms; earthquakes


Environment - current issues:

deforestation; soil erosion; overgrazing; desertification; air
pollution from industrial effluents and vehicle emissions; water
pollution from raw sewage and runoff of agricultural pesticides; tap
water is not potable throughout the country; huge and growing
population is overstraining natural resources


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living
Resources, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone
Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

dominates South Asian subcontinent; near important Indian Ocean
trade routes; Kanchenjunga, third tallest mountain in the world,
lies on the border with Nepal


People
India



Population:

1,147,995,904 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 31.5% (male 189,238,487/female 172,168,306)
15-64 years: 63.3% (male 374,157,581/female 352,868,003)
65 years and over: 5.2% (male 28,285,796/female 31,277,725) (2008
est.)


Median age:

total: 25.1 years
male: 24.7 years
female: 25.5 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.578% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

22.22 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

6.4 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-0.05 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.12 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.1 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.9 male(s)/female
total population: 1.06 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 32.31 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 36.94 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 27.12 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 69.25 years
male: 66.87 years
female: 71.9 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.76 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.9% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

5.1 million (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

310,000 (2001 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A and E,
and typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: chikungunya, dengue fever, Japanese
encephalitis, and malaria
animal contact disease: rabies
note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Indian(s)
adjective: Indian


Ethnic groups:

Indo-Aryan 72%, Dravidian 25%, Mongoloid and other 3% (2000)


Religions:

Hindu 80.5%, Muslim 13.4%, Christian 2.3%, Sikh 1.9%, other 1.8%,
unspecified 0.1% (2001 census)


Languages:

Hindi 41%, Bengali 8.1%, Telugu 7.2%, Marathi 7%, Tamil 5.9%, Urdu
5%, Gujarati 4.5%, Kannada 3.7%, Malayalam 3.2%, Oriya 3.2%, Punjabi
2.8%, Assamese 1.3%, Maithili 1.2%, other 5.9%
note: English enjoys associate status but is the most important
language for national, political, and commercial communication;
Hindi is the national language and primary tongue of 41% of the
people; there are 14 other official languages: Bengali, Telugu,
Marathi, Tamil, Urdu, Gujarati, Malayalam, Kannada, Oriya, Punjabi,
Assamese, Kashmiri, Sindhi, and Sanskrit; Hindustani is a popular
variant of Hindi/Urdu spoken widely throughout northern India but is
not an official language (2001 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 61%
male: 73.4%
female: 47.8% (2001 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 10 years
male: 11 years
female: 9 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

3.2% of GDP (2005)


Government
India



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of India
conventional short form: India
local long form: Republic of India/Bharatiya Ganarajya
local short form: India/Bharat


Government type:

federal republic


Capital:

name: New Delhi
geographic coordinates: 28 36 N, 77 12 E
time difference: UTC+5.5 (10.5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

28 states and 7 union territories*; Andaman and Nicobar Islands*,
Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chandigarh*,
Chhattisgarh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli*, Daman and Diu*, Delhi*, Goa,
Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand,
Karnataka, Kerala, Lakshadweep*, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra,
Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Orissa, Puducherry*, Punjab,
Rajasthan, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand,
West Bengal


Independence:

15 August 1947 (from UK)


National holiday:

Republic Day, 26 January (1950)


Constitution:

26 January 1950; amended many times


Legal system:

based on English common law; judicial review of legislative acts;
accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations; separate
personal law codes apply to Muslims, Christians, and Hindus


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Pratibha PATIL (since 25 July 2007); Vice
President Hamid ANSARI (since 11 August 2007)
head of government: Prime Minister Manmohan SINGH (since 22 May 2004)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president on the recommendation of
the prime minister
elections: president elected by an electoral college consisting of
elected members of both houses of Parliament and the legislatures of
the states for a five-year term (no term limits); election last held
21 July 2007 (next to be held in July 2012); vice president elected
by both houses of Parliament for a five-year term; election last
held 12 August 2002 (next to be held August 2007); prime minister
chosen by parliamentary members of the majority party following
legislative elections; election last held April - May 2004 (next to
be held May 2009)
election results: Pratibha PATIL elected president; percent of vote
- 65.8%; Bhairon Singh SHEKHAWAT - 34.2%


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament or Sansad consists of the Council of States or
Rajya Sabha (a body consisting of not more than 250 members up to 12
of whom are appointed by the president, the remainder are chosen by
the elected members of the state and territorial assemblies; members
serve six-year terms) and the People's Assembly or Lok Sabha (545
seats; 543 elected by popular vote, 2 appointed by the president;
members serve five-year terms)
elections: People's Assembly - last held 20 April through 10 May
2004 (next must be held by May 2009)
election results: People's Assembly - percent of vote by party - NA;
seats by party - INC 147, BJP 129, CPI (M) 43, SP 38, RJD 23, DMK
16, BSP 15, SS 12, BJD 11, CPI 10, NCP 10, JD (U) 8, SAD 8, PMK 6,
JMM 5, LJSP 4, MDMK 4, TDP 4, TRS 4, independent 6, other 29, vacant
13; note - seats by party as of December 2006


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (one chief justice and 25 associate justices are
appointed by the president and remain in office until they reach the
age of 65 or are removed for "proved misbehavior")


Political parties and leaders:

Bahujan Samaj Party or BSP [MAYAWATI]; Bharatiya Janata Party or BJP
[Rajnath SINGH]; Biju Janata Dal or BJD [Naveen PATNAIK]; Communist
Party of India or CPI [Ardhendu Bhushan BARDHAN]; Communist Party of
India-Marxist or CPI-M [Prakash KARAT]; Dravida Munnetra Kazagham or
DMK [M. KARUNANIDHI]; Indian National Congress or INC [Sonia
GANDHI]; Janata Dal (United) or JD(U) [Sharad YADAV]; Jharkhand
Mukti Morcha or JMM [Shibu SOREN]; Left Front (an alliance of Indian
leftist parties); Lok Jan Shakti Party or LJSP [Ram Vilas PASWAN];
Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam or MDMK [V. Gopalswamy
VAIKO]; Nationalist Congress Party or NCP [Sharad PAWAR]; Pattali
Makkal Katchi or PMK [S. RAMADOSS]; Rashtriya Janata Dal or RJD
[Laloo Prasad YADAV]; Samajwadi Party or SP [Mulayam Singh YADAV];
Shiromani Akali Dal or SAD [Parkash Singh BADAL]; Shiv Sena or SS
[Bal THACKERAY]; Telangana Rashtriya Samithi or TRS [K.
Chandrashekhar RAO]; Telugu Desam Party or TDP [Chandrababu NAIDU];
United Progressive Alliance or UPA [Sonia GANDHI] (India's ruling
party coalition of 12 political parties); note - India has dozens of
national and regional political parties; only parties or coalitions
with four or more seats in the People's Assembly are listed


Political pressure groups and leaders:

All Parties Hurriyat Conference in the Kashmir Valley (separatist
group); Bajrang Dal (religious organization); National Socialist
Council of Nagaland in the northeast (separatist group); Rashtriya
Swayamsevak Sangh (religious organization); Vishwa Hindu Parishad
(religious organization
other: numerous religious or militant/chauvinistic organizations;
various separatist groups seeking greater communal and/or regional
autonomy


International organization participation:

ADB, AfDB (nonregional members), ARF, ASEAN (dialogue partner),
BIMSTEC, BIS, C, CERN (observer), CP, EAS, FAO, G-15, G-24, G-77,
IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF,
IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAS
(observer), MIGA, MONUC, NAM, OAS (observer), OPCW, PCA, PIF
(partner), SAARC, SACEP, SCO (observer), UN, UNCTAD, UNDOF, UNESCO,
UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNITAR, UNMIS, UNMIT, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCL,
WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Ranendra SEN
chancery: 2107 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008; note -
Consular Wing located at 2536 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington,
DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 939-7000
FAX: [1] (202) 265-4351
consulate(s) general: Chicago, Houston, New York, San Francisco


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador David C. MULFORD
embassy: Shantipath, Chanakyapuri, New Delhi 110021
mailing address: use embassy street address
telephone: [91] (011) 2419-8000
FAX: [91] (11) 2419-0017
consulate(s) general: Chennai (Madras), Kolkata (Calcutta), Mumbai
(Bombay)


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of saffron (subdued orange) (top),
white, and green with a blue chakra (24-spoked wheel) centered in
the white band; similar to the flag of Niger, which has a small
orange disk centered in the white band


Economy
India



Economy - overview:

India's diverse economy encompasses traditional village farming,
modern agriculture, handicrafts, a wide range of modern industries,
and a multitude of services. Services are the major source of
economic growth, accounting for more than half of India's output
with less than one third of its labor force. About three-fifths of
the work force is in agriculture, leading the United Progressive
Alliance (UPA) government to articulate an economic reform program
that includes developing basic infrastructure to improve the lives
of the rural poor and boost economic performance. The government has
reduced controls on foreign trade and investment. Higher limits on
foreign direct investment were permitted in a few key sectors, such
as telecommunications. However, tariff spikes in sensitive
categories, including agriculture, and incremental progress on
economic reforms still hinder foreign access to India's vast and
growing market. Privatization of government-owned industries remains
stalled and continues to generate political debate; populist
pressure from within the UPA government and from its Left Front
allies continues to restrain needed initiatives. The economy has
posted an average growth rate of more than 7% in the decade since
1997, reducing poverty by about 10 percentage points. India achieved
8.5% GDP growth in 2006, and again in 2007, significantly expanding
production of manufactures. India is capitalizing on its large
numbers of well-educated people skilled in the English language to
become a major exporter of software services and software workers.
Economic expansion has helped New Delhi continue to make progress in
reducing its federal fiscal deficit. However, strong growth combined
with easy consumer credit and a real estate boom fueled inflation
concerns in 2006 and 2007, leading to a series of central bank
interest rate hikes that have slowed credit growth and eased
inflation concerns. The huge and growing population is the
fundamental social, economic, and environmental problem.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$2.966 trillion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$1.099 trillion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

9% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$2,600 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 17.8%
industry: 29.4%
services: 52.8% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

516.4 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 60%
industry: 12%
services: 28% (2003)


Unemployment rate:

7.2% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

25% (2007 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 3.6%
highest 10%: 31.1% (2004)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

36.8 (2004)


Investment (gross fixed):

33.9% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $141.2 billion
expenditures: $172.6 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 April - 31 March


Public debt:

58.2% of GDP (federal and state debt combined) (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

6.4% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

6% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

13.02% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$250.9 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$647.3 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$769.3 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

rice, wheat, oilseed, cotton, jute, tea, sugarcane, potatoes;
cattle, water buffalo, sheep, goats, poultry; fish


Industries:

textiles, chemicals, food processing, steel, transportation
equipment, cement, mining, petroleum, machinery, software


Industrial production growth rate:

8.5% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

665.3 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

517.2 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

378 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - imports:

3.189 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 81.7%
hydro: 14.5%
nuclear: 3.4%
other: 0.3% (2001)


Oil - production:

880,500 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

2.722 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

450,700 bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - imports:

2.159 million bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - proved reserves:

5.625 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

31.7 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

41.7 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

10 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

1.075 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$12.11 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$151.3 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

petroleum products, textile goods, gems and jewelry, engineering
goods, chemicals, leather manufactures


Exports - partners:

US 15%, China 8.7%, UAE 8.7%, UK 4.4% (2007)


Imports:

$230.5 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

crude oil, machinery, gems, fertilizer, chemicals


Imports - partners:

China 10.6%, US 7.8%, Germany 4.4%, Singapore 4.4% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$1.724 billion (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$275 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$149.2 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$95.96 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$37.5 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$818.9 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

Indian rupee (INR)


Currency code:

INR


Exchange rates:

Indian rupees (INR) per US dollar - 41.487 (2007), 45.3 (2006),
44.101 (2005), 45.317 (2004), 46.583 (2003)


Communications
India



Telephones - main lines in use:

38.76 million (2008)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

296.08 million (2008)


Telephone system:

general assessment: recent deregulation and liberalization of
telecommunications laws and policies have prompted rapid growth;
local and long distance service provided throughout all regions of
the country, with services primarily concentrated in the urban
areas; steady improvement is taking place with the recent admission
of private and private-public investors, but combined fixed and
mobile telephone density remains low at about 30 for each 100
persons nationwide and much lower for persons in rural areas; rapid
growth in cellular service with modest declines in fixed lines
domestic: mobile cellular service introduced in 1994 and organized
nationwide into four metropolitan areas and 19 telecom circles each
with about three private service providers and one state-owned
service provider; in recent years significant trunk capacity added
in the form of fiber-optic cable and one of the world's largest
domestic satellite systems, the Indian National Satellite system
(INSAT), with 6 satellites supporting 33,000 very small aperture
terminals (VSAT)
international: country code - 91; a number of major international
submarine cable systems, including Sea-Me-We-3 with landing sites at
Cochin and Mumbai (Bombay), Sea-Me-We-4 with a landing site at
Chennai, Fiber-Optic Link Around the Globe (FLAG) with a landing
site at Mumbai (Bombay), South Africa - Far East (SAFE) with a
landing site at Cochin, the i2i cable network linking to Singapore
with landing sites at Mumbai (Bombay) and Chennai (Madras), and Tata
Indicom linking Singapore and Chennai (Madras), provide a
significant increase in the bandwidth available for both voice and
data traffic; satellite earth stations - 8 Intelsat (Indian Ocean)
and 1 Inmarsat (Indian Ocean region); 9 gateway exchanges operating
from Mumbai (Bombay), New Delhi, Kolkata (Calcutta), Chennai
(Madras), Jalandhar, Kanpur, Gandhinagar, Hyderabad, and Ernakulam
(2008)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 153, FM 91, shortwave 68 (1998)


Radios:

116 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

562 (1997)


Televisions:

63 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.in


Internet hosts:

2.707 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

43 (2000)


Internet users:

80 million (2007)


Transportation
India



Airports:

346 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 250
over 3,047 m: 18
2,438 to 3,047 m: 52
1,524 to 2,437 m: 75
914 to 1,523 m: 84
under 914 m: 21 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 96
over 3,047 m: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 7
914 to 1,523 m: 40
under 914 m: 47 (2007)


Heliports:

30 (2007)


Pipelines:

condensate/gas 9 km; gas 7,488 km; liquid petroleum gas 1,861 km;
oil 7,883 km; refined products 6,422 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 63,221 km
broad gauge: 46,807 km 1.676-m gauge (17,343 km electrified)
narrow gauge: 13,290 km 1.000-m gauge (165 km electrified); 3,124 km
0.762-m gauge and 0.610-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 3,316,452 km (includes 200 km of expressways) (2006)


Waterways:

14,500 km
note: 5,200 km on major rivers and 485 km on canals suitable for
mechanized vessels (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 501
by type: bulk carrier 102, cargo 241, carrier 1, chemical tanker 19,
container 13, liquefied gas 18, passenger 3, passenger/cargo 11,
petroleum tanker 92, roll on/roll off 1
foreign-owned: 12 (China 1, Germany 2, Hong Kong 1, UAE 6, UK 2)
registered in other countries: 61 (Barbados 1, Comoros 2, Cyprus 2,
Dominica 2, Liberia 2, Malta 2, Marshall Islands 1, Panama 27, Saint
Kitts and Nevis 1, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 7, Singapore 13,
unknown 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Chennai, Haldia, Jawaharal Nehru, Kandla, Kolkata (Calcutta),
Mormugao, Mumbai (Bombay), New Mangalore, Vishakhapatnam


Military
India



Military branches:

Army, Navy (includes naval air arm), Air Force (Bharatiya Vayu
Sena), Coast Guard (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

16 years of age for voluntary military service; no conscription;
women officers allowed in noncombat roles only (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 301,094,084
females age 16-49: 283,047,141 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 231,161,111
females age 16-49: 236,633,962 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 11,592,516
female: 10,636,857 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

2.5% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
India



Disputes - international:

since China and India launched a security and foreign policy
dialogue in 2005, consolidated discussions related to the dispute
over most of their rugged, militarized boundary, regional nuclear
proliferation, Indian claims that China transferred missiles to
Pakistan, and other matters continue; various talks and
confidence-building measures have cautiously begun to defuse
tensions over Kashmir, particularly since the October 2005
earthquake in the region; Kashmir nevertheless remains the site of
the world's largest and most militarized territorial dispute with
portions under the de facto administration of China (Aksai Chin),
India (Jammu and Kashmir), and Pakistan (Azad Kashmir and Northern
Areas); India and Pakistan have maintained the 2004 cease fire in
Kashmir and initiated discussions on defusing the armed stand-off in
the Siachen glacier region; Pakistan protests India's fencing the
highly militarized Line of Control and construction of the Baglihar
Dam on the Chenab River in Jammu and Kashmir, which is part of the
larger dispute on water sharing of the Indus River and its
tributaries; UN Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan
(UNMOGIP) has maintained a small group of peacekeepers since 1949;
India does not recognize Pakistan's ceding historic Kashmir lands to
China in 1964; to defuse tensions and prepare for discussions on a
maritime boundary, India and Pakistan seek technical resolution of
the disputed boundary in Sir Creek estuary at the mouth of the Rann
of Kutch in the Arabian Sea; Pakistani maps continue to show its
Junagadh claim in Indian Gujarat State; discussions with Bangladesh
remain stalled to delimit a small section of river boundary, to
exchange territory for 51 Bangladeshi exclaves in India and 111
Indian exclaves in Bangladesh, to allocate divided villages, and to
stop illegal cross-border trade, migration, violence, and transit of
terrorists through the porous border; Bangladesh protests India's
attempts to fence off high-traffic sections of the border; dispute
with Bangladesh over New Moore/South Talpatty/Purbasha Island in the
Bay of Bengal deters maritime boundary delimitation; India seeks
cooperation from Bhutan and Burma to keep Indian Nagaland and Assam
separatists from hiding in remote areas along the borders; Joint
Border Committee with Nepal continues to examine contested boundary
sections, including the 400 square kilometer dispute over the source
of the Kalapani River; India maintains a strict border regime to
keep out Maoist insurgents and control illegal cross-border
activities from Nepal


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 77,200 (Tibet/China); 69,609 (Sri
Lanka); 9,472 (Afghanistan)
IDPs: at least 600,000 (about half are Kashmiri Pandits from Jammu
and Kashmir) (2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: India is a source, destination, and transit
country for men, women, and children trafficked for the purposes of
forced labor and commercial sexual exploitation; internal forced
labor may constitute India's largest trafficking problem; men,
women, and children are held in debt bondage and face forced labor
working in brick kilns, rice mills, agriculture, and embroidery
factories; women and girls are trafficked within the country for the
purposes of commercial sexual exploitation and forced marriage;
children are subjected to forced labor as factory workers, domestic
servants, beggars, and agriculture workers, and have been used as
armed combatants by some terrorist and insurgent groups; India is
also a destination for women and girls from Nepal and Bangladesh
trafficked for the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation; Indian
women are trafficked to the Middle East for commercial sexual
exploitation; men and women from Bangladesh and Nepal are trafficked
through India for forced labor and commercial sexual exploitation in
the Middle East
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - India is on the Tier 2 Watch List
for a fifth consecutive year for its failure to provide evidence of
increasing efforts to combat human trafficking in 2007; despite the
reported extent of the trafficking crisis in India, government
authorities made uneven efforts to prosecute traffickers and protect
trafficking victims; government authorities continued to rescue
victims of commercial sexual exploitation and forced child labor and
child armed combatants, and began to show progress in law
enforcement against these forms of trafficking; a critical challenge
overall is the lack of punishment for traffickers, effectively
resulting in impunity for acts of human trafficking; India has not
ratified the 2000 UN TIP Protocol (2008)


Illicit drugs:

world's largest producer of licit opium for the pharmaceutical
trade, but an undetermined quantity of opium is diverted to illicit
international drug markets; transit point for illicit narcotics
produced in neighboring countries and throughout Southwest Asia;
illicit producer of methaqualone; vulnerable to narcotics money
laundering through the hawala system; licit ketamine and precursor
production



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Indian Ocean

Introduction
Indian Ocean



Background:

The Indian Ocean is the third largest of the world's five oceans
(after the Pacific Ocean and Atlantic Ocean, but larger than the
Southern Ocean and Arctic Ocean). Four critically important access
waterways are the Suez Canal (Egypt), Bab el Mandeb
(Djibouti-Yemen), Strait of Hormuz (Iran-Oman), and Strait of
Malacca (Indonesia-Malaysia). The decision by the International
Hydrographic Organization in the spring of 2000 to delimit a fifth
ocean, the Southern Ocean, removed the portion of the Indian Ocean
south of 60 degrees south latitude.


Geography
Indian Ocean



Location:

body of water between Africa, the Southern Ocean, Asia, and Australia


Geographic coordinates:

20 00 S, 80 00 E


Map references:

Political Map of the World


Area:

total: 68.556 million sq km
note: includes Andaman Sea, Arabian Sea, Bay of Bengal, Flores Sea,
Great Australian Bight, Gulf of Aden, Gulf of Oman, Java Sea,
Mozambique Channel, Persian Gulf, Red Sea, Savu Sea, Strait of
Malacca, Timor Sea, and other tributary water bodies


Area - comparative:

about 5.5 times the size of the US


Coastline:

66,526 km


Climate:

northeast monsoon (December to April), southwest monsoon (June to
October); tropical cyclones occur during May/June and
October/November in the northern Indian Ocean and January/February
in the southern Indian Ocean


Terrain:

surface dominated by counterclockwise gyre (broad, circular system
of currents) in the southern Indian Ocean; unique reversal of
surface currents in the northern Indian Ocean; low atmospheric
pressure over southwest Asia from hot, rising, summer air results in
the southwest monsoon and southwest-to-northeast winds and currents,
while high pressure over northern Asia from cold, falling, winter
air results in the northeast monsoon and northeast-to-southwest
winds and currents; ocean floor is dominated by the Mid-Indian Ocean
Ridge and subdivided by the Southeast Indian Ocean Ridge, Southwest
Indian Ocean Ridge, and Ninetyeast Ridge


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Java Trench -7,258 m
highest point: sea level 0 m


Natural resources:

oil and gas fields, fish, shrimp, sand and gravel aggregates, placer
deposits, polymetallic nodules


Natural hazards:

occasional icebergs pose navigational hazard in southern reaches


Environment - current issues:

endangered marine species include the dugong, seals, turtles, and
whales; oil pollution in the Arabian Sea, Persian Gulf, and Red Sea


Geography - note:

major chokepoints include Bab el Mandeb, Strait of Hormuz, Strait of
Malacca, southern access to the Suez Canal, and the Lombok Strait




Economy
Indian Ocean



Economy - overview:

The Indian Ocean provides major sea routes connecting the Middle
East, Africa, and East Asia with Europe and the Americas. It carries
a particularly heavy traffic of petroleum and petroleum products
from the oilfields of the Persian Gulf and Indonesia. Its fish are
of great and growing importance to the bordering countries for
domestic consumption and export. Fishing fleets from Russia, Japan,
South Korea, and Taiwan also exploit the Indian Ocean, mainly for
shrimp and tuna. Large reserves of hydrocarbons are being tapped in
the offshore areas of Saudi Arabia, Iran, India, and western
Australia. An estimated 40% of the world's offshore oil production
comes from the Indian Ocean. Beach sands rich in heavy minerals and
offshore placer deposits are actively exploited by bordering
countries, particularly India, South Africa, Indonesia, Sri Lanka,
and Thailand.



Transportation
Indian Ocean



Ports and terminals:

Chennai (Madras; India), Colombo (Sri Lanka), Durban (South Africa),
Jakarta (Indonesia), Kolkata (Calcutta; India) Melbourne
(Australia), Mumbai (Bombay; India), Richards Bay (South Africa)


Transportation - note:

the International Maritime Bureau reports the territorial waters of
littoral states and offshore waters as high risk for piracy and
armed robbery against ships, particularly in the Gulf of Aden, along
the east coast of Africa, the Bay of Bengal, and the Strait of
Malacca; numerous vessels, including commercial shipping and
pleasure craft, have been attacked and hijacked both at anchor and
while underway; hijacked vessels are often disguised and cargoes
stolen; crew and passengers are often held for ransom, murdered, or
cast adrift



Transnational Issues
Indian Ocean



Disputes - international:

some maritime disputes (see littoral states)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Indonesia

Introduction
Indonesia



Background:

The Dutch began to colonize Indonesia in the early 17th century; the
islands were occupied by Japan from 1942 to 1945. Indonesia declared
its independence after Japan's surrender, but it required four years
of intermittent negotiations, recurring hostilities, and UN
mediation before the Netherlands agreed to relinquish its colony.
Indonesia is the world's largest archipelagic state and home to the
world's largest Muslim population. Current issues include:
alleviating poverty, preventing terrorism, consolidating democracy
after four decades of authoritarianism, implementing financial
sector reforms, stemming corruption, holding the military and police
accountable for human rights violations, and controlling avian
influenza. In 2005, Indonesia reached a historic peace agreement
with armed separatists in Aceh, which led to democratic elections in
December 2006. Indonesia continues to face a low intensity
separatist movement in Papua.


Geography
Indonesia



Location:

Southeastern Asia, archipelago between the Indian Ocean and the
Pacific Ocean


Geographic coordinates:

5 00 S, 120 00 E


Map references:

Southeast Asia


Area:

total: 1,919,440 sq km
land: 1,826,440 sq km
water: 93,000 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly less than three times the size of Texas


Land boundaries:

total: 2,830 km
border countries: Timor-Leste 228 km, Malaysia 1,782 km, Papua New
Guinea 820 km


Coastline:

54,716 km


Maritime claims:

measured from claimed archipelagic straight baselines
territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; hot, humid; more moderate in highlands


Terrain:

mostly coastal lowlands; larger islands have interior mountains


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
highest point: Puncak Jaya 5,030 m


Natural resources:

petroleum, tin, natural gas, nickel, timber, bauxite, copper,
fertile soils, coal, gold, silver


Land use:

arable land: 11.03%
permanent crops: 7.04%
other: 81.93% (2005)


Irrigated land:

45,000 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

2,838 cu km (1999)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 82.78 cu km/yr (8%/1%/91%)
per capita: 372 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

occasional floods, severe droughts, tsunamis, earthquakes,
volcanoes, forest fires


Environment - current issues:

deforestation; water pollution from industrial wastes, sewage; air
pollution in urban areas; smoke and haze from forest fires


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

archipelago of 17,508 islands (6,000 inhabited); straddles equator;
strategic location astride or along major sea lanes from Indian
Ocean to Pacific Ocean


People
Indonesia



Population:

237,512,352 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 28.4% (male 34,343,198/female 33,175,135)
15-64 years: 65.7% (male 78,330,830/female 77,812,339)
65 years and over: 5.8% (male 6,151,305/female 7,699,548) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 27.2 years
male: 26.7 years
female: 27.7 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.175% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

19.24 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

6.24 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-1.25 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.8 male(s)/female
total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 31.04 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 36.14 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 25.68 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 70.46 years
male: 67.98 years
female: 73.07 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.34 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.1% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

110,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

2,400 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A and E,
and typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: chikungunya, dengue fever, and malaria
note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Indonesian(s)
adjective: Indonesian


Ethnic groups:

Javanese 40.6%, Sundanese 15%, Madurese 3.3%, Minangkabau 2.7%,
Betawi 2.4%, Bugis 2.4%, Banten 2%, Banjar 1.7%, other or
unspecified 29.9% (2000 census)


Religions:

Muslim 86.1%, Protestant 5.7%, Roman Catholic 3%, Hindu 1.8%, other
or unspecified 3.4% (2000 census)


Languages:

Bahasa Indonesia (official, modified form of Malay), English, Dutch,
local dialects (the most widely spoken of which is Javanese)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 90.4%
male: 94%
female: 86.8% (2004 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 11 years
male: 12 years
female: 11 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

3.6% of GDP (2006)


Government
Indonesia



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Indonesia
conventional short form: Indonesia
local long form: Republik Indonesia
local short form: Indonesia
former: Netherlands East Indies, Dutch East Indies


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Jakarta
geographic coordinates: 6 10 S, 106 49 E
time difference: UTC+7 (12 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
note: Indonesia is divided into three time zones


Administrative divisions:

30 provinces (propinsi-propinsi, singular - propinsi), 2 special
regions* (daerah-daerah istimewa, singular - daerah istimewa), and 1
special capital city district** (daerah khusus ibukota); Aceh*,
Bali, Banten, Bengkulu, Gorontalo, Jakarta Raya**, Jambi, Jawa
Barat, Jawa Tengah, Jawa Timur, Kalimantan Barat, Kalimantan
Selatan, Kalimantan Tengah, Kalimantan Timur, Kepulauan Bangka
Belitung, Kepulauan Riau, Lampung, Maluku, Maluku Utara, Nusa
Tenggara Barat, Nusa Tenggara Timur, Papua, Papua Barat (Irian Jaya
Barat), Riau, Sulawesi Barat, Sulawesi Selatan, Sulawesi Tengah,
Sulawesi Tenggara, Sulawesi Utara, Sumatera Barat, Sumatera Selatan,
Sumatera Utara, Yogyakarta*
note: following the implementation of decentralization beginning on
1 January 2001, the 465 regencies and municipalities have become the
key administrative units responsible for providing most government
services


Independence:

17 August 1945 (declared)
note: recognized by the Netherlands on 27 December 1949; in August
2005, the Netherlands announced it recognized de facto Indonesian
independence on 17 August 1945


National holiday:

Independence Day, 17 August (1945)


Constitution:

August 1945; abrogated by Federal Constitution of 1949 and
Provisional Constitution of 1950, restored 5 July 1959; series of
amendments concluded in 2002


Legal system:

based on Roman-Dutch law, substantially modified by indigenous
concepts and by new criminal procedures and election codes; has not
accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

17 years of age; universal and married persons regardless of age


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Susilo Bambang YUDHOYONO (since 20 October
2004); Vice President Muhammad Yusuf KALLA (since 20 October 2004);
note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government
head of government: President Susilo Bambang YUDHOYONO (since 20
October 2004); Vice President Muhammad Yusuf KALLA (since 20 October
2004)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president
elections: president and vice president were elected for five-year
terms (eligible for a second term) by direct vote of the citizenry;
last held 20 September 2004 (next to be held in 2009)
election results: Susilo Bambang YUDHOYONO elected president
receiving 60.6% of vote; MEGAWATI Sukarnoputri received 39.4%


Legislative branch:

House of Representatives or Dewan Perwakilan Rakyat (DPR) (550
seats; members elected to serve five-year terms); House of Regional
Representatives (Dewan Perwakilan Daerah or DPD), constitutionally
mandated role includes providing legislative input to DPR on issues
affecting regions; People's Consultative Assembly (Majelis
Permusyawaratan Rakyat or MPR) has role in inaugurating and
impeaching president and in amending constitution; consists of
popularly elected members in DPR and DPD; MPR does not formulate
national policy
elections: last held 5 April 2004 (next to be held 8 or 9 April 2009)
election results: percent of vote by party - Golkar 21.6%, PDI-P
18.5%, PKB 10.6%, PPP 8.2%, PD 7.5%, PKS 7.3%, PAN 6.4%, others
19.9%; seats by party - Golkar 128, PDI-P 109, PPP 58, PD 55, PAN
53, PKB 52, PKS 45, others 50
note: because of election rules, the number of seats won does not
always follow the percentage of votes received by parties


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court or Mahkamah Agung (justices appointed by the president
from a list of candidates selected by the legislature); a separate
Constitutional Court or Mahkamah Konstitusi was invested by the
president on 16 August 2003; in March 2004 the Supreme Court assumed
administrative and financial responsibility for the lower court
system from the Ministry of Justice and Human Rights; Labor Court
under supervision of Supreme Court began functioning in January 2006


Political parties and leaders:

Crescent Moon and Star Party or PBB [MS KABAN]; Democratic Party or
PD [Hadi UTOMO]; Functional Groups Party or Golkar [Yusuf KALLA];
Indonesia Democratic Party-Struggle or PDI-P [MEGAWATI
Sukarnoputri]; National Awakening Party or PKB; National Mandate
Party or PAN [Sutrisno BACHIR]; Prosperous Justice Party or PKS
[Tifatul SEMBIRING]; United Development Party or PPP [Suryadharma
ALI]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Indonesian Women's Coalition (Koalisi Perempuan - human rights
group); Islamic Defenders Front or FPI; National Alliance for
Freedom of Religion and Faith; Oil Palm Watch (environmental)


International organization participation:

ADB, APEC, APT, ARF, ASEAN, BIS, CP, EAS, FAO, G-15, G-77, IAEA,
IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF,
IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC,
MIGA, MONUC, NAM, OIC, OPCW, OPEC, PIF (partner), UN, UN Security
Council (temporary), UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNMIL,
UNMIS, UNOMIG, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador SUDJADNAN Parnohadiningrat
chancery: 2020 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036
telephone: [1] (202) 775-5200
FAX: [1] (202) 775-5365
consulate(s) general: Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, New York, San
Francisco


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Cameron R. HUME
embassy: Jalan 1 Medan Merdeka Selatan 3-5, Jakarta 10110
mailing address: Unit 8129, Box 1, FPO AP 96520
telephone: [62] (21) 3435-9000
FAX: [62] (21) 3435-9922
consulate(s) general: Surabaya


Flag description:

two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and white; similar to the
flag of Monaco, which is shorter; also similar to the flag of
Poland, which is white (top) and red


Economy
Indonesia



Economy - overview:

Indonesia, a vast polyglot nation, has been undergoing significant
economic reforms under President YUDHOYONO. Indonesia's debt-to-GDP
ratio has been declining steadily, its foreign exchange reserves are
at an all-time high of over $50 billion, and its stock market has
been one of the three best performers in the world in 2006 and 2007,
as global investors sought out higher returns in emerging markets.
The government has introduced significant reforms in the financial
sector, including tax and customs reforms, the introduction of
Treasury bills, and improved capital market supervision. Indonesia's
new investment law, passed in March 2007, seeks to address some of
the concerns of foreign and domestic investors. Indonesia still
struggles with poverty and unemployment, inadequate infrastructure,
corruption, a complex regulatory environment, and unequal resource
distribution among regions. Indonesia has been slow to privatize
over 100 state-owned enterprises, several of which have monopolies
in key sectors. The non-bank financial sector, including pension
funds and insurance, remains weak. Capital markets are
underdeveloped. The high global price of oil in 2007 increased the
cost of domestic fuel and electricity subsidies, and are
contributing to concerns about higher food prices. Located on the
Pacific "Ring of Fire" Indonesia remains vulnerable to volcanic and
tectonic disasters. Significant progress has been made in rebuilding
Aceh after the devastating December 2004 tsunami, and the province
now shows more economic activity than before the disaster.
Unfortunately, Indonesia suffered new disasters in 2006 and early
2007 including: a major earthquake near Yogyakarta, an industrial
accident in Sidoarjo, East Java that created a "mud volcano," a
tsunami in South Java, and major flooding in Jakarta, all of which
caused additional damages in the billions of dollars. Donors are
assisting Indonesia with its disaster mitigation and early warning
efforts.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$843.7 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$432.9 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6.3% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$3,600 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 13.8%
industry: 46.7%
services: 39.4% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

109.9 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 43.3%
industry: 18%
services: 38.7% (2004 est.)


Unemployment rate:

9.1% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

17.8% (2006)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 3.6%
highest 10%: 28.5% (2002)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

36.3 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

24.9% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $79.56 billion
expenditures: $84.87 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

34% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

6.3% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

8% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

13.86% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$47.78 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$127 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$170.2 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

rice, cassava (tapioca), peanuts, rubber, cocoa, coffee, palm oil,
copra; poultry, beef, pork, eggs


Industries:

petroleum and natural gas, textiles, apparel, footwear, mining,
cement, chemical fertilizers, plywood, rubber, food, tourism


Industrial production growth rate:

4.7% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

125.7 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

110.7 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 86.9%
hydro: 10.5%
nuclear: 0%
other: 2.6% (2001)


Oil - production:

1.044 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

1.219 million bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

470,000 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - imports:

500,000 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - proved reserves:

4.37 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

56 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

23.4 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

32.6 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

2.659 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$11.01 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$118 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

oil and gas, electrical appliances, plywood, textiles, rubber


Exports - partners:

Japan 20.7%, US 10.2%, Singapore 9.2%, China 8.5%, South Korea 6.6%,
Malaysia 4.5%, India 4.3% (2007)


Imports:

$84.93 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, chemicals, fuels, foodstuffs


Imports - partners:

Singapore 13.2%, China 11.5%, Japan 8.8%, Malaysia 8.6%, US 6.4%,
Thailand 5.8%, Saudi Arabia 4.5%, South Korea 4.3%, Australia 4%
(2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

ODA, $2.524 billion (2006 est.)
note: Indonesia ended 2006 with $67 billion in official foreign debt
(about 25% of GDP), with Japan ($25 billion), the World Bank ($8.5
billion) and the Asian Development Bank ($8.4 billion) as the
largest creditors; about $6 billion in grant assistance was pledged
to rebuild Aceh after the December 2004 tsunami; President YUDHOYONO
disbanded the Consultative Group on Indonesia (CGI) donor forum in
January 2007


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$56.92 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$140 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$57.6 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$9.225 billion (2006 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$138.9 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

Indonesian rupiah (IDR)


Currency code:

IDR


Exchange rates:

Indonesian rupiah (IDR) per US dollar - 9,056 (2007 est.), 9,159.3
(2006), 9,704.7 (2005), 8,938.9 (2004), 8,577.1 (2003)


Communications
Indonesia



Telephones - main lines in use:

17.828 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

81.835 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: domestic service fair, international service good
domestic: interisland microwave system and HF radio police net;
domestic satellite communications system; coverage provided by
existing network has been expanded by use of over 200,000 telephone
kiosks many located in remote areas; mobile cellular subscribership
growing rapidly
international: country code - 62; landing point for both the
SEA-ME-WE-3 and SEA-ME-WE-4 submarine cable networks that provide
links throughout Asia, the Middle East, and Europe; satellite earth
stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Indian Ocean and 1 Pacific Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 678, FM 43, shortwave 82 (1998)


Radios:

31.5 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

54 local TV stations (11 national TV networks; each with its group
of local transmitters) (2006)


Televisions:

13.75 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.id


Internet hosts:

753,200 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

24 (2000)


Internet users:

13 million (2007)


Transportation
Indonesia



Airports:

652 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 158
over 3,047 m: 4
2,438 to 3,047 m: 15
1,524 to 2,437 m: 51
914 to 1,523 m: 49
under 914 m: 39 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 494
1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
914 to 1,523 m: 27
under 914 m: 462 (2007)


Heliports:

17 (2007)


Pipelines:

condensate 963 km; condensate/gas 81 km; gas 9,003 km; oil 7,471 km;
oil/gas/water 77 km; refined products 1,365 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 6,458 km
narrow gauge: 5,961 km 1.067-m gauge (125 km electrified); 497 km
0.750-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 391,009 km
paved: 216,714 km
unpaved: 174,295 km (2005)


Waterways:

21,579 km (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 971
by type: bulk carrier 54, cargo 514, chemical tanker 35, container
80, liquefied gas 7, passenger 44, passenger/cargo 68, petroleum
tanker 143, refrigerated cargo 2, roll on/roll off 10, specialized
tanker 10, vehicle carrier 4
foreign-owned: 43 (China 2, France 1, Germany 1, Japan 6, Norway 1,
Philippines 1, Singapore 27, Taiwan 2, UAE 2)
registered in other countries: 114 (Bahamas 2, Cambodia 2, China 1,
Hong Kong 7, Liberia 2, Mongolia 1, Panama 31, Singapore 66, unknown
2) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Banjarmasin, Belawan, Ciwandan, Kotabaru, Krueg Geukueh, Palembang,
Panjang, Sungai Pakning, Tanjung Perak, Tanjung Priok


Transportation - note:

the International Maritime Bureau reports the territorial and
offshore waters in the Strait of Malacca and South China Sea as high
risk for piracy and armed robbery against ships; numerous commercial
vessels have been attacked and hijacked both at anchor and while
underway; hijacked vessels are often disguised and cargo diverted to
ports in East Asia; crews have been murdered or cast adrift


Military
Indonesia



Military branches:

Indonesian Armed Forces (Tentara Nasional Indonesia, TNI): Army
(TNI-Angkatan Darat (TNI-AD)), Navy (TNI-Angkatan Laut (TNI-AL);
includes marines, naval air arm), Air Force (TNI-Angkatan Udara
(TNI-AU)), National Air Defense Command (Kommando Pertahanan Udara
Nasional (Kohanudnas)) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for selective compulsory and voluntary military
service; 2-year conscript service obligation, with reserve
obligation to age 45 (officers); Indonesian citizens only (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 63,800,825
females age 16-49: 61,729,717 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 52,367,788
females age 16-49: 52,129,123 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 2,181,303
female: 2,110,397 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

3% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Indonesia



Disputes - international:

Indonesia has a stated foreign policy objective of establishing
stable fixed land and maritime boundaries with all of its neighbors;
Timor-Leste-Indonesia Boundary Committee has resolved all but a
small portion of the land boundary, but discussions on maritime
boundaries are stalemated over sovereignty of the uninhabited coral
island of Pulau Batek/Fatu Sinai in the north and alignment with
Australian claims in the south; many refugees from Timor-Leste who
left in 2003 still reside in Indonesia and refuse repatriation; a
1997 treaty between Indonesia and Australia settled some parts of
their maritime boundary but outstanding issues remain; ICJ's award
of Sipadan and Ligitan islands to Malaysia in 2002 left the
sovereignty of Unarang rock and the maritime boundary in the Ambalat
oil block in the Celebes Sea in dispute; the ICJ decision has
prompted Indonesia to assert claims to and to establish a presence
on its smaller outer islands; Indonesia and Singapore continue to
work on finalization of their 1973 maritime boundary agreement by
defining unresolved areas north of Indonesia's Batam Island;
Indonesian secessionists, squatters, and illegal migrants create
repatriation problems for Papua New Guinea; piracy remains a problem
in the Malacca Strait; maritime delimitation talks continue with
Palau; Indonesian groups challenge Australia's claim to Ashmore
Reef; Australia has closed parts of the Ashmore and Cartier Reserve
to Indonesian traditional fishing and placed restrictions on certain
catches


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

IDPs: 200,000-350,000 (government offensives against rebels in Aceh;
most IDPs in Aceh, Central Kalimantan, Central Sulawesi Provinces,
and Maluku) (2007)


Illicit drugs:

illicit producer of cannabis largely for domestic use; producer of
methamphetamine and ecstasy



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Iran

Introduction
Iran



Background:

Known as Persia until 1935, Iran became an Islamic republic in 1979
after the ruling monarchy was overthrown and the shah was forced
into exile. Conservative clerical forces established a theocratic
system of government with ultimate political authority vested in a
learned religious scholar referred to commonly as the Supreme Leader
who, according to the constitution, is accountable only to the
Assembly of Experts. US-Iranian relations have been strained since a
group of Iranian students seized the US Embassy in Tehran on 4
November 1979 and held it until 20 January 1981. During 1980-88,
Iran fought a bloody, indecisive war with Iraq that eventually
expanded into the Persian Gulf and led to clashes between US Navy
and Iranian military forces between 1987 and 1988. Iran has been
designated a state sponsor of terrorism for its activities in
Lebanon and elsewhere in the world and remains subject to US and UN
economic sanctions and export controls because of its continued
involvement in terrorism and conventional weapons proliferation.
Following the election of reformer Hojjat ol-Eslam Mohammad KHATAMI
as president in 1997 and similarly a reformer Majles (parliament) in
2000, a campaign to foster political reform in response to popular
dissatisfaction was initiated. The movement floundered as
conservative politicians, through the control of unelected
institutions, prevented reform measures from being enacted and
increased repressive measures. Starting with nationwide municipal
elections in 2003 and continuing through Majles elections in 2004,
conservatives reestablished control over Iran's elected government
institutions, which culminated with the August 2005 inauguration of
hardliner Mahmud AHMADI-NEJAD as president. In December 2006 and
March 2007, the international community passed resolutions 1737 and
1747 respectively after Iran failed to comply with UN demands to
halt the enrichment of uranium or to agree to full IAEA oversight of
its nuclear program. In October 2007, Iranian entities were also
subject to US sanctions under EO 13382 designations for
proliferation activities and EO 13224 designations for providing
material support to the Taliban and other terrorist organizations.


Geography
Iran



Location:

Middle East, bordering the Gulf of Oman, the Persian Gulf, and the
Caspian Sea, between Iraq and Pakistan


Geographic coordinates:

32 00 N, 53 00 E


Map references:

Middle East


Area:

total: 1.648 million sq km
land: 1.636 million sq km
water: 12,000 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than Alaska


Land boundaries:

total: 5,440 km
border countries: Afghanistan 936 km, Armenia 35 km,
Azerbaijan-proper 432 km, Azerbaijan-Naxcivan exclave 179 km, Iraq
1,458 km, Pakistan 909 km, Turkey 499 km, Turkmenistan 992 km


Coastline:

2,440 km; note - Iran also borders the Caspian Sea (740 km)


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: bilateral agreements or median lines in the
Persian Gulf
continental shelf: natural prolongation


Climate:

mostly arid or semiarid, subtropical along Caspian coast


Terrain:

rugged, mountainous rim; high, central basin with deserts,
mountains; small, discontinuous plains along both coasts


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Caspian Sea -28 m
highest point: Kuh-e Damavand 5,671 m


Natural resources:

petroleum, natural gas, coal, chromium, copper, iron ore, lead,
manganese, zinc, sulfur


Land use:

arable land: 9.78%
permanent crops: 1.29%
other: 88.93% (2005)


Irrigated land:

76,500 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

137.5 cu km (1997)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 72.88 cu km/yr (7%/2%/91%)
per capita: 1,048 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

periodic droughts, floods; dust storms, sandstorms; earthquakes


Environment - current issues:

air pollution, especially in urban areas, from vehicle emissions,
refinery operations, and industrial effluents; deforestation;
overgrazing; desertification; oil pollution in the Persian Gulf;
wetland losses from drought; soil degradation (salination);
inadequate supplies of potable water; water pollution from raw
sewage and industrial waste; urbanization


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification, Law of the
Sea, Marine Life Conservation


Geography - note:

strategic location on the Persian Gulf and Strait of Hormuz, which
are vital maritime pathways for crude oil transport


People
Iran



Population:

65,875,224 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 22.3% (male 7,548,116/female 7,164,921)
15-64 years: 72.3% (male 24,090,976/female 23,522,861)
65 years and over: 5.4% (male 1,713,533/female 1,834,816) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 26.4 years
male: 26.2 years
female: 26.7 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.792% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

16.89 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

5.69 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-3.28 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.93 male(s)/female
total population: 1.03 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 36.93 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 37.12 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 36.73 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 70.86 years
male: 69.39 years
female: 72.4 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.71 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.2% (2005 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

66,000 (2005 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

1,600 (2005 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: intermediate
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A
vectorborne diseases: Crimean Congo hemorrhagic fever and malaria
note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Iranian(s)
adjective: Iranian


Ethnic groups:

Persian 51%, Azeri 24%, Gilaki and Mazandarani 8%, Kurd 7%, Arab 3%,
Lur 2%, Baloch 2%, Turkmen 2%, other 1%


Religions:

Muslim 98% (Shia 89%, Sunni 9%), other (includes Zoroastrian,
Jewish, Christian, and Baha'i) 2%


Languages:

Persian and Persian dialects 58%, Turkic and Turkic dialects 26%,
Kurdish 9%, Luri 2%, Balochi 1%, Arabic 1%, Turkish 1%, other 2%


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 77%
male: 83.5%
female: 70.4% (2002 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 13 years
male: 13 years
female: 13 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

5.1% of GDP (2006)


Government
Iran



Country name:

conventional long form: Islamic Republic of Iran
conventional short form: Iran
local long form: Jomhuri-ye Eslami-ye Iran
local short form: Iran
former: Persia


Government type:

theocratic republic


Capital:

name: Tehran
geographic coordinates: 35 40 N, 51 25 E
time difference: UTC+3.5 (8.5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

30 provinces (ostanha, singular - ostan); Ardabil, Azarbayjan-e
Gharbi, Azarbayjan-e Sharqi, Bushehr, Chahar Mahall va Bakhtiari,
Esfahan, Fars, Gilan, Golestan, Hamadan, Hormozgan, Ilam, Kerman,
Kermanshah, Khorasan-e Jonubi, Khorasan-e Razavi, Khorasan-e
Shomali, Khuzestan, Kohgiluyeh va Buyer Ahmad, Kordestan, Lorestan,
Markazi, Mazandaran, Qazvin, Qom, Semnan, Sistan va Baluchestan,
Tehran, Yazd, Zanjan


Independence:

1 April 1979 (Islamic Republic of Iran proclaimed)


National holiday:

Republic Day, 1 April (1979)


Constitution:

2-3 December 1979; revised 1989 to expand powers of the presidency
and eliminate the prime ministership


Legal system:

based on Sharia law system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

16 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Supreme Leader Ali Hoseini-KHAMENEI (since 4 June
1989)
head of government: President Mahmud AHMADI-NEJAD (since 3 August
2005); First Vice President Parviz DAVUDI (since 11 September 2005)
cabinet: Council of Ministers selected by the president with
legislative approval; the Supreme Leader has some control over
appointments to the more sensitive ministries
note: also considered part of the Executive branch of government are
three oversight bodies: 1) Assembly of Experts (Majles-Khebregan), a
popularly elected body charged with determining the succession of
the Supreme Leader, reviewing his performance, and deposing him if
deemed necessary; 2) Expediency Council or the Council for the
Discernment of Expediency (Majma-e-Tashkise-Maslahat-e-Nezam) exerts
supervisory authority over the executive, judicial, and legislative
branches and resolves legislative issues on which the Majles and the
Council of Guardians disagree and since 1989 has been used to advise
national religious leaders on matters of national policy; in 2005
the Council's powers were expanded to act as a supervisory body for
the government; 3) Council of Guardians of the Constitution or
Council of Guardians or Guardians Council (Shora-ye Negaban-e
Qanun-e Assassi) determines whether proposed legislation is both
constitutional and faithful to Islamic law, vets candidates for
suitability, and supervises national elections
elections: Supreme Leader is appointed for life by the Assembly of
Experts; president is elected by popular vote for a four-year term
(eligible for a second term and third nonconsecutive term); last
held 17 June 2005 with a two-candidate runoff on 24 June 2005 (next
presidential election slated for 12 June 2009)
election results: Mahmud AHMADI-NEJAD elected president; percent of
vote - Mahmud AHMADI-NEJAD 62%, Ali Akbar Hashemi-RAFSANJANI 36%


Legislative branch:

unicameral Islamic Consultative Assembly or Majles-e-Shura-ye-Eslami
or Majles (290 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve
four-year terms)
elections: last held 14 March 2008 with a runoff held 25 April 2008
(next to be held in 2012)
election results: percent of vote - NA; seats by party -
conservatives/Islamists 170, reformers 46, independents 71,
religious minorities 3


Judicial branch:

The Supreme Court (Qeveh Qazaieh) and the four-member High Council
of the Judiciary have a single head and overlapping
responsibilities; together they supervise the enforcement of all
laws and establish judicial and legal policies; lower courts include
a special clerical court, a revolutionary court, and a special
administrative court


Political parties and leaders:

formal political parties are a relatively new phenomenon in Iran and
most conservatives still prefer to work through political pressure
groups rather than parties, and often political parties or
coalitions are formed prior to elections and disbanded soon
thereafter; a loose pro-reform coalition called the 2nd Khordad
Front, which includes political parties as well as less formal
groups and organizations, achieved considerable success at elections
to the sixth Majles in early 2000; groups in the coalition include:
Islamic Iran Participation Front (IIPF), Executives of Construction
Party (Kargozaran), Solidarity Party, Islamic Labor Party, Mardom
Salari, Mojahedin of the Islamic Revolution Organization (MIRO), and
Militant Clerics Society (Ruhaniyun); the coalition participated in
the seventh Majles elections in early 2004; following his defeat in
the 2005 presidential elections, former MCS Secretary General and
sixth Majles Speaker Mehdi KARUBI formed the National Trust Party; a
new conservative group, Islamic Iran Developers Coalition
(Abadgaran), took a leading position in the new Majles after winning
a majority of the seats in February 2004; following the 2004 Majles
elections, traditional and hardline conservatives have attempted to
close ranks under the United Front of Principlists; the IIPF has
repeatedly complained that the overwhelming majority of its
candidates have been unfairly disqualified from the 2008 elections


Political pressure groups and leaders:

groups that generally support the Islamic Republic: Ansar-e
Hizballah-Islamic Coalition Party (Motalefeh); Followers of the Line
of the Imam and the Leader; Islamic Engineers Society; Tehran
Militant Clergy Association (Ruhaniyat); active pro-reform student
group: Office of Strengthening Unity (OSU); opposition groups:
Baluchistan People's Party (BPP); Freedom Movement of Iran; Marz-e
Por Gohar; National Front; and various ethnic and Monarchist
organizations; armed political groups that have been repressed by
the government: Democratic Party of Iranian Kurdistan (KDPI);
Jundallah; Komala; Mujahidin-e Khalq Organization (MEK or MKO);
People's Fedayeen; People's Free Life Party of Kurdistan (PJAK)


International organization participation:

CP, ECO, FAO, G-15, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt
(signatory), ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, MIGA, NAM, OIC, OPCW,
OPEC, PCA, SAARC (observer), SCO (observer), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNHCR, UNIDO, UNITAR, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
WTO (observer)


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none; note - Iran has an Interests Section in the Pakistani Embassy;
address: Iranian Interests Section, Pakistani Embassy, 2209
Wisconsin Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20007; telephone: [1] (202)
965-4990; FAX [1] (202) 965-1073


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none; note - the American Interests Section is located in the Swiss
Embassy compound at Africa Avenue, West Farzan Street, number 32,
Tehran, Iran; telephone [98] 21 8878 2964 or 21 8879 2364; FAX [98]
21 8877 3265


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of green (top), white, and red; the
national emblem (a stylized representation of the word Allah in the
shape of a tulip, a symbol of martyrdom) in red is centered in the
white band; ALLAH AKBAR (God is Great) in white Arabic script is
repeated 11 times along the bottom edge of the green band and 11
times along the top edge of the red band


Economy
Iran



Economy - overview:

Iran's economy is marked by an inefficient state sector, reliance on
the oil sector (which provides 85% of government revenues), and
statist policies that create major distortions throughout. Most
economic activity is controlled by the state. Private sector
activity is typically small-scale workshops, farming, and services.
President Mahmud AHMADI-NEJAD failed to make any notable progress in
fulfilling the goals of the nation's latest five-year plan. A
combination of price controls and subsidies, particularly on food
and energy, continue to weigh down the economy, and administrative
controls, widespread corruption, and other rigidities undermine the
potential for private-sector-led growth. As a result of these
inefficiencies, significant informal market activity flourishes and
shortages are common. High oil prices in recent years have enabled
Iran to amass nearly $70 billion in foreign exchange reserves. Yet
this increased revenue has not eased economic hardships, which
include double-digit unemployment and inflation - inflation climbed
to 26% as of June 2008. The economy has seen only moderate growth.
Iran's educated population, economic inefficiency and insufficient
investment - both foreign and domestic - have prompted an increasing
number of Iranians to seek employment overseas, resulting in
significant "brain drain."


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$762.9 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$294.1 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6.2% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$11,700 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 10.7%
industry: 42.9%
services: 46.5% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

28.7 million
note: shortage of skilled labor (2006 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 25%
industry: 31%
services: 45% (June 2007)


Unemployment rate:

12% according to the Iranian government (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

18% (2007 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2%
highest 10%: 33.7% (1998)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

44.5 (2006)


Investment (gross fixed):

27.6% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $104 billion
expenditures: $101 billion (2008 est.)


Fiscal year:

21 March - 20 March


Public debt:

17.2% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

17.1% (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

12% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$46.13 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$68.71 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$109.7 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

wheat, rice, other grains, sugar beets, sugar cane, fruits, nuts,
cotton; dairy products, wool; caviar


Industries:

petroleum, petrochemicals, fertilizers, caustic soda, textiles,
cement and other construction materials, food processing
(particularly sugar refining and vegetable oil production), ferrous
and non-ferrous metal fabrication, armaments


Industrial production growth rate:

4.8% excluding oil (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

189.9 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

149.4 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

2.775 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - imports:

2.54 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 97.1%
hydro: 2.9%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

4.033 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

1.679 million bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

2.52 million bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - imports:

167,800 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

138.4 billion bbl based on Iranian claims (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

111.9 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

111.8 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

6.2 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

6.1 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

26.85 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$28.95 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$88.26 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

petroleum 80%, chemical and petrochemical products, fruits and nuts,
carpets


Exports - partners:

China 15%, Japan 14.3%, Turkey 7.4%, South Korea 7.3%, Italy 6.4%
(2007)


Imports:

$53.88 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

industrial raw materials and intermediate goods, capital goods,
foodstuffs and other consumer goods, technical services


Imports - partners:

China 14.2%, Germany 9.6%, UAE 9.1%, South Korea 6.3%, Russia 5.7%,
Italy 5% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$104 million (2005 est.)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$69.2 billion (2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$20.68 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$6.026 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$903 million (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$45.2 billion (December 2007)


Currency (code):

Iranian rial (IRR)


Currency code:

IRR


Exchange rates:

Iranian rials (IRR) per US dollar - 9,407.5 (2007), 9,227.1 (2006),
8,964 (2005), 8,614 (2004), 8,193.9 (2003)
note: Iran has been using a managed floating exchange rate regime
since unifying multiple exchange rates in March 2002


Communications
Iran



Telephones - main lines in use:

23.835 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

29.77 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: currently being modernized and expanded with the
goal of not only improving the efficiency and increasing the volume
of the urban service but also bringing telephone service to several
thousand villages, not presently connected
domestic: the addition of new fiber cables and modern switching and
exchange systems installed by Iran's state-owned telecom company
have improved and expanded the main line network greatly; main line
availability has more than doubled to nearly 24 million lines since
2000; additionally, mobile service has increased dramatically
serving nearly 30 million subscribers in 2007
international: country code - 98; submarine fiber-optic cable to UAE
with access to Fiber-Optic Link Around the Globe (FLAG);
Trans-Asia-Europe (TAE) fiber-optic line runs from Azerbaijan
through the northern portion of Iran to Turkmenistan with expansion
to Georgia and Azerbaijan; HF radio and microwave radio relay to
Turkey, Azerbaijan, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Turkmenistan, Syria,
Kuwait, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan; satellite earth stations - 13 (9
Intelsat and 4 Inmarsat) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 72, FM 5, shortwave 5 (1998)


Radios:

17 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

28 (plus 450 repeaters) (1997)


Televisions:

4.61 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.ir


Internet hosts:

2,860 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

100 (2002)


Internet users:

23 million (2007)


Transportation
Iran



Airports:

331 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 129
over 3,047 m: 40
2,438 to 3,047 m: 28
1,524 to 2,437 m: 24
914 to 1,523 m: 32
under 914 m: 5 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 202
over 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 10
914 to 1,523 m: 145
under 914 m: 46 (2007)


Heliports:

14 (2007)


Pipelines:

condensate 7 km; condensate/gas 397 km; gas 19,161 km; liquid
petroleum gas 570 km; oil 8,438 km; refined products 7,936 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 8,367 km
broad gauge: 94 km 1.676-m gauge
standard gauge: 8,273 km 1.435-m gauge (146 km electrified) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 172,927 km
paved: 125,908 km (includes 1,429 km of expressways)
unpaved: 47,019 km (2006)


Waterways:

850 km (on Karun River; additional service on Lake Urmia) (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 74
by type: bulk carrier 18, cargo 34, chemical tanker 4, container 6,
liquefied gas 1, passenger/cargo 4, petroleum tanker 2, refrigerated
cargo 2, roll on/roll off 3
foreign-owned: 1 (UAE 1)
registered in other countries: 115 (Barbados 2, Bolivia 1, Cyprus
10, Hong Kong 15, Malta 79, Panama 7, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Assaluyeh, Bandar Abbas, Bandar-e-Eman Khomeyni


Military
Iran



Military branches:

Islamic Republic of Iran Regular Forces (Artesh): Ground Forces,
Navy, Air Force of the Military of the Islamic Republic of Iran
(Niru-ye Hava'i-ye Artesh-e Jomhuri-ye Eslami-ye Iran; includes air
defense); Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (Sepah-e Pasdaran-e
Enqelab-e Eslami, IRGC): Ground Forces, Navy, Air Force, Qods Force
(special operations), and Basij Force (Popular Mobilization Army);
Law Enforcement Forces (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

19 years of age for compulsory military service; 16 years of age for
volunteers; 17 years of age for Law Enforcement Forces; 15 years of
age for Basij Forces (Popular Mobilization Army); conscript military
service obligation - 18 months; women exempt from military service
(2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 20,212,275
females age 16-49: 19,638,751 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 17,416,126
females age 16-49: 16,928,226 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 766,668
female: 727,654 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

2.5% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Iran



Disputes - international:

Iran protests Afghanistan's limiting flow of dammed tributaries to
the Helmand River in periods of drought; Iraq's lack of a maritime
boundary with Iran prompts jurisdiction disputes beyond the mouth of
the Shatt al Arab in the Persian Gulf; Iran and UAE dispute Tunb
Islands and Abu Musa Island, which are occupied by Iran; Iran stands
alone among littoral states in insisting upon a division of the
Caspian Sea into five equal sectors


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 914,268 (Afghanistan); 54,024 (Iraq)
(2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Iran is a source, transit, and destination
country for women trafficked for the purposes of sexual exploitation
and involuntary servitude; Iranian women are trafficked internally
for the purpose of forced prostitution and for forced marriages to
settle debts; Iranian children are trafficked internally and Afghan
children are trafficked into Iran for the purpose of forced
marriages, commercial sexual exploitation, and involuntary servitude
as beggars or laborers
tier rating: Tier 3 - Iran did not provide evidence of law
enforcement activities against trafficking, and credible reports
indicate that Iranian authorities punish victims of trafficking with
beatings, imprisonment, and execution; Iran has not ratified the
2000 UN TIP Protocol (2008)


Illicit drugs:

despite substantial interdiction efforts and considerable control
measures along the border with Afghanistan, Iran remains one of the
primary transshipment routes for Southwest Asian heroin to Europe;
suffers one of the highest opiate addiction rates in the world, and
has an increasing problem with synthetic drugs; lacks anti-money
laundering laws; has reached out to neighboring countries to share
counter-drug intelligence



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Iraq

Introduction
Iraq



Background:

Formerly part of the Ottoman Empire, Iraq was occupied by Britain
during the course of World War I; in 1920, it was declared a League
of Nations mandate under UK administration. In stages over the next
dozen years, Iraq attained its independence as a kingdom in 1932. A
"republic" was proclaimed in 1958, but in actuality a series of
military strongmen ruled the country until 2003. The last was SADDAM
Husayn. Territorial disputes with Iran led to an inconclusive and
costly eight-year war (1980-88). In August 1990, Iraq seized Kuwait
but was expelled by US-led, UN coalition forces during the Gulf War
of January-February 1991. Following Kuwait's liberation, the UN
Security Council (UNSC) required Iraq to scrap all weapons of mass
destruction and long-range missiles and to allow UN verification
inspections. Continued Iraqi noncompliance with UNSC resolutions
over a period of 12 years led to the US-led invasion of Iraq in
March 2003 and the ouster of the SADDAM Husayn regime. Coalition
forces remain in Iraq under a UNSC mandate, helping to provide
security and to support the freely elected government. The Coalition
Provisional Authority, which temporarily administered Iraq after the
invasion, transferred full governmental authority on 28 June 2004 to
the Iraqi Interim Government, which governed under the Transitional
Administrative Law for Iraq (TAL). Under the TAL, elections for a
275-member Transitional National Assembly (TNA) were held in Iraq on
30 January 2005. Following these elections, the Iraqi Transitional
Government (ITG) assumed office. The TNA was charged with drafting
Iraq's permanent constitution, which was approved in a 15 October
2005 constitutional referendum. An election under the constitution
for a 275-member Council of Representatives (CoR) was held on 15
December 2005. The CoR approval in the selection of most of the
cabinet ministers on 20 May 2006 marked the transition from the ITG
to Iraq's first constitutional government in nearly a half-century.


Geography
Iraq



Location:

Middle East, bordering the Persian Gulf, between Iran and Kuwait


Geographic coordinates:

33 00 N, 44 00 E


Map references:

Middle East


Area:

total: 437,072 sq km
land: 432,162 sq km
water: 4,910 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly more than twice the size of Idaho


Land boundaries:

total: 3,650 km
border countries: Iran 1,458 km, Jordan 181 km, Kuwait 240 km, Saudi
Arabia 814 km, Syria 605 km, Turkey 352 km


Coastline:

58 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
continental shelf: not specified


Climate:

mostly desert; mild to cool winters with dry, hot, cloudless
summers; northern mountainous regions along Iranian and Turkish
borders experience cold winters with occasionally heavy snows that
melt in early spring, sometimes causing extensive flooding in
central and southern Iraq


Terrain:

mostly broad plains; reedy marshes along Iranian border in south
with large flooded areas; mountains along borders with Iran and
Turkey


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Persian Gulf 0 m
highest point: unnamed peak; 3,611 m; note - this peak is neither
Gundah Zhur 3,607 m nor Kuh-e Hajji-Ebrahim 3,595 m


Natural resources:

petroleum, natural gas, phosphates, sulfur


Land use:

arable land: 13.12%
permanent crops: 0.61%
other: 86.27% (2005)


Irrigated land:

35,250 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

96.4 cu km (1997)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 42.7 cu km/yr (3%/5%/92%)
per capita: 1,482 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

dust storms, sandstorms, floods


Environment - current issues:

government water control projects have drained most of the inhabited
marsh areas east of An Nasiriyah by drying up or diverting the
feeder streams and rivers; a once sizable population of Marsh Arabs,
who inhabited these areas for thousands of years, has been
displaced; furthermore, the destruction of the natural habitat poses
serious threats to the area's wildlife populations; inadequate
supplies of potable water; development of the Tigris and Euphrates
rivers system contingent upon agreements with upstream riparian
Turkey; air and water pollution; soil degradation (salination) and
erosion; desertification


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Law of the Sea
signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification


Geography - note:

strategic location on Shatt al Arab waterway and at the head of the
Persian Gulf


People
Iraq



Population:

28,221,180 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 39.2% (male 5,613,420/female 5,438,770)
15-64 years: 57.9% (male 8,270,573/female 8,057,423)
65 years and over: 3% (male 396,751/female 444,244) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 20.2 years
male: 20.1 years
female: 20.2 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.562% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

30.77 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

5.14 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.89 male(s)/female
total population: 1.02 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 45.43 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 51.06 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 39.53 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 69.62 years
male: 68.32 years
female: 70.99 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

3.97 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

less than 0.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

fewer than 500 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: intermediate
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever
note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Iraqi(s)
adjective: Iraqi


Ethnic groups:

Arab 75%-80%, Kurdish 15%-20%, Turkoman, Assyrian, or other 5%


Religions:

Muslim 97% (Shia 60%-65%, Sunni 32%-37%), Christian or other 3%


Languages:

Arabic, Kurdish (official in Kurdish regions), Turkoman (a Turkish
dialect), Assyrian (Neo-Aramaic), Armenian


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 74.1%
male: 84.1%
female: 64.2% (2000 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 10 years
male: 11 years
female: 8 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Iraq



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Iraq
conventional short form: Iraq
local long form: Al Jumhuriyah al-Iraqiyah
local short form: Al Iraq


Government type:

parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Baghdad
geographic coordinates: 33 20 N, 44 23 E
time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins 1 April; ends 1 October


Administrative divisions:

18 governorates (muhafazat, singular - muhafazah) and 1 region*; Al
Anbar, Al Basrah, Al Muthanna, Al Qadisiyah, An Najaf, Arbil, As
Sulaymaniyah, At Ta'mim, Babil, Baghdad, Dahuk, Dhi Qar, Diyala,
Karbala', Kurdistan Regional Government*, Maysan, Ninawa, Salah ad
Din, Wasit


Independence:

3 October 1932 (from League of Nations mandate under British
administration); note - on 28 June 2004 the Coalition Provisional
Authority transferred sovereignty to the Iraqi-controlled Government


National holiday:

Revolution Day, 17 July (1968); note - this holiday was celebrated
under the SADDAM Husayn regime; the Government of Iraq has yet to
declare a new national holiday


Constitution:

ratified on 15 October 2005 (subject to review by the Constitutional
Review Committee and a possible public referendum )


Legal system:

based on European civil and Islamic law under the framework outlined
in the Iraqi Constitution; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Jalal TALABANI (since 6 April 2005); Vice
Presidents Adil ABD AL-MAHDI and Tariq al-HASHIMI (since 22 April
2006); note - the president and vice presidents comprise the
Presidency Council)
head of government: Prime Minister Nuri al-MALIKI (since 20 May
2006); Deputy Prime Ministers Barham SALIH (since 20 May 2006)and
Rafi al-ISSAWI (since 19 July 2008)
cabinet: 34 ministers appointed by the Presidency Council, plus
Prime Minister Nuri al-MALIKI and Deputy Prime Ministers Barham
SALIH and Rafi al-ISSAWI
elections: held 15 December 2005 to elect a 275-member Council of
Representatives


Legislative branch:

Council of Representatives (consisting of 275 members elected by a
closed-list, proportional representation system)
elections: last held 15 December 2005 to elect a 275-member Council
of Representatives (next to be held January 2009); the Council of
Representatives elected the Presidency Council and approved the
prime minister and two deputy prime ministers
election results: Council of Representatives - percent of vote by
party - Unified Iraqi Alliance 41%, Kurdistan Alliance 22%, Tawafuq
Coalition 15%, Iraqi National List 8%, Iraqi Front for National
Dialogue 4%, other 10%; number of seats by party (as of November
2007) - Unified Iraqi Alliance (including the Sadrist bloc with 30
and Fadilah with 15) 130, Kurdistan Alliance 53, Tawafuq Front 44,
Iraqi National List 25, Fadilah 15, Iraqi Front for National
Dialogue 11, other 12


Judicial branch:

the Iraq Constitution calls for the federal judicial power to be
comprised of the Higher Juridical Council, Federal Supreme Court,
Federal Court of Cassation, Public Prosecution Department, Judiciary
Oversight Commission and other federal courts that are regulated in
accordance with the law


Political parties and leaders:

Assyrian Democratic Movement [Yunadim KANNA]; Badr Organization
[Hadi al-AMIRI]; Constitutional Monarchy Movement or CMM [Sharif Ali
Bin al-HUSAYN]; Da'wa al-Islamiya Party [Ibrahim al-JA'FARI];
General Conference of Iraqi People [Adnan al-DULAYMI]; Independent
Iraqi Alliance or IIA [Falah al-NAQIB]; Iraqi Communist Party [Hamid
MAJEED]; Iraqi Front for National Dialogue [Salih al-MUTLAQ]; Iraqi
Hizballah [Karim Mahmud al-MUHAMMADAWI]; Iraqi Independent Democrats
or IID [Adnan PACHACHI, Mahdi al-HAFIZ]; Iraqi Islamic Party or IIP
[Tariq al-HASHIMI]; Iraqi National Accord or INA [Ayad ALLAWI];
Iraqi National Congress or INC [Ahmad CHALABI]; Iraqi National
Council for Dialogue or INCD [Khalaf Ulayan al-Khalifawi
al-DULAYMI]; Iraqi National Unity Movement or INUM [Ahmad
al-KUBAYSI]; Islamic Action Organization or IAO [Ayatollah Muhammad
al-MUDARRISI]; Islamic Supreme Council of Iraq or ISCI [Abd al-Aziz
al-HAKIM]; Jama'at al Fadilah or JAF [Muhammad Ali al-YAQUBI];
Kurdistan Democratic Party or KDP [Masud BARZANI]; Kurdistan Islamic
Union [Salah ad-Din Muhammad BAHA al-DIN]; National Reconciliation
and Liberation Party [Mishan al-JABBURI]; Patriotic Union of
Kurdistan or PUK [Jalal TALABANI]; Sadrist Trend [Muqtada al-SADR]
(not an organized political party, but it fields independent
candidates affiliated with Muqtada al-SADR); Sahawa al-Iraq [Ahmed
al-RISHAWI]
note: the Kurdistan Alliance, Iraqi National List, Tawafuq Front,
Iraqi Front for National Dialogue, and Unified Iraqi Alliance were
only electoral slates consisting of the representatives from the
various Iraqi political parties


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Sunni militias; Shia militias, some associated with political parties


International organization participation:

ABEDA, AFESD (suspended), AMF, CAEU, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol,
IOC, ISO, ITSO, ITU, LAS, MIGA, NAM, OAPEC, OIC, OPEC, PCA, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
(observer)


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Samir Shakir al-SUMAYDI
chancery: 3421 Massachusetts Ave, NW, Washington, DC 20007
telephone: [1] (202) 742-1600
FAX: [1] (202) 333-1129


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Ryan C. CROCKER
embassy: Baghdad
mailing address: APO AE 09316
telephone: 1-240-553-0589 ext. 5340 or 5635; note - Consular Section
FAX: NA


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and black; the
Takbir (Arabic expression meaning "God is great") in green Arabic
script is centered in the white band; similar to the flag of Syria,
which has two stars but no script, Yemen, which has a plain white
band, and that of Egypt, which has a gold Eagle of Saladin centered
in the white band; design is based upon the Arab Liberation colors;
Council of Representatives approved this flag as a compromise
temporary replacement for Ba'athist Saddam-era flag


Economy
Iraq



Economy - overview:

Iraq's economy is dominated by the oil sector, which has
traditionally provided about 95% of foreign exchange earnings.
Although looting, insurgent attacks, and sabotage have undermined
economy rebuilding efforts, economic activity is beginning to pick
up in areas recently secured by the US military surge. Oil exports
are around levels seen before Operation Iraqi Freedom, and total
government revenues have benefited from high oil prices. Despite
political uncertainty, Iraq is making some progress in building the
institutions needed to implement economic policy and has negotiated
a debt reduction agreement with the Paris Club and a new Stand-By
Arrangement with the IMF. Iraq has received pledges for $13.5
billion in foreign aid for 2004-07 from outside of the US, more than
$33 billion in total pledges. The International Compact with Iraq
was established in May 2007 to integrate Iraq into the regional and
global economy, and the Iraqi government is seeking to pass laws to
strengthen its economy. This legislation includes a hydrocarbon law
to establish a modern legal framework to allow Iraq to develop its
resources and a revenue sharing law to equitably divide oil revenues
within the nation, although both are still bogged down in
discussions. The Central Bank has been successful in controlling
inflation through appreciation of the dinar against the US dollar.
Reducing corruption and implementing structural reforms, such as
bank restructuring and developing the private sector, will be key to
Iraq's economic success.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$102.4 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$60.12 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

5.9% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$3,700 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 5%
industry: 68%
services: 27% (2006 est.)


Labor force:

7.4 million (2004 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: NA%
industry: NA%
services: NA%


Unemployment rate:

18% to 30% (2006 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $42.3 billion
expenditures: $48.4 billion (FY08 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

4.7% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

20% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

19.74% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$18.81 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$3.67 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

NA (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

wheat, barley, rice, vegetables, dates, cotton; cattle, sheep,
poultry


Industries:

petroleum, chemicals, textiles, leather, construction materials,
food processing, fertilizer, metal fabrication/processing


Industrial production growth rate:

7.9% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

33.53 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

35.84 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007)


Electricity - imports:

2.315 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 98.4%
hydro: 1.6%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

2.094 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

295,000 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

1.67 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - imports:

NA bbl/day


Oil - proved reserves:

115 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

3.5 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

1.8 billion cu m
note: 1.48 billion cu m were flared (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

3.17 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$6.025 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$38.14 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

crude oil 84%, crude materials excluding fuels 8%, food and live
animals 5%


Exports - partners:

US 36.8%, Italy 12.6%, South Korea 9.5%, Taiwan 6.3%, Spain 5.2%,
Canada 4.7%, France 4.4%, Netherlands 4.2% (2007)


Imports:

$25.67 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

food, medicine, manufactures


Imports - partners:

Syria 30.5%, Turkey 19.8%, US 11.1%, Jordan 5%, China 4.8% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$21.65 billion (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$25.66 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$100.9 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

New Iraqi dinar (NID) as of 22 January 2004


Currency code:

NID, IQD prior to 22 January 2004


Exchange rates:

New Iraqi dinars (NID) per US dollar - 1,255 (2007), 1,466 (2006),
1,475 (2005), 1,890 (second half, 2003)


Communications
Iraq



Telephones - main lines in use:

1.547 million (2005)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

14.021 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: the 2003 liberation of Iraq severely disrupted
telecommunications throughout Iraq including international
connections; widespread government efforts to rebuild domestic and
international communications through fiber optic links are in
progress; the mobile cellular market has expanded rapidly with an
estimated 14 million current users in 2007
domestic: repairs to switches and lines destroyed during 2003
continue; additional switching capacity is improving access;
cellular service is available and centered on 3 GSM networks which
are being expanded beyond their regional roots, improving
country-wide connectivity; wireless local loop licenses have been
issued with the hope of overcoming the lack of fixed-line
infrastructure
international: country code - 964; satellite earth stations - 4 (2
Intelsat - 1 Atlantic Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean, 1 Intersputnik -
Atlantic Ocean region, and 1 Arabsat (inoperative)); local microwave
radio relay connects border regions to Jordan, Kuwait, Syria, and
Turkey; planned international fiber-optic connections to Iran
(terrestrial) with a link to the Fiber-Optic Link Around the Globe
(FLAG) submarine fiber-optic cable (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

after 17 months of unregulated media growth, there are approximately
80 radio stations (types NA) on the air inside Iraq (2004)


Radios:

4.85 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

21 (2004)


Televisions:

1.75 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.iq


Internet hosts:

3 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

54,000 (2007)


Transportation
Iraq



Airports:

110 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 76
over 3,047 m: 19
2,438 to 3,047 m: 37
1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
914 to 1,523 m: 6
under 914 m: 9 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 34
over 3,047 m: 3
2,438 to 3,047 m: 4
1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
914 to 1,523 m: 13
under 914 m: 10 (2007)


Heliports:

17 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 2,250 km; liquid petroleum gas 918 km; oil 5,509 km; refined
products 1,637 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 2,272 km
standard gauge: 2,272 km 1.435-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 44,900 km
paved: 37,851 km
unpaved: 7,049 km (2002)


Waterways:

5,279 km
note: Euphrates River (2,815 km), Tigris River (1,899 km), and Third
River (565 km) are principal waterways (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 14
by type: cargo 10, petroleum tanker 4 (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Al Basrah, Khawr az Zubayr, Umm Qasr


Military
Iraq



Military branches:

Iraqi Armed Forces: Iraqi Army (includes Iraqi Special Operations
Force, Iraqi Intervention Force), Iraqi Navy (former Iraqi Coastal
Defense Force), Iraqi Air Force (former Iraqi Army Air Corps) (2005)


Military service age and obligation:

18-49 years of age for voluntary military service (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 7,086,200
females age 16-49: 6,808,954 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 6,019,795
females age 16-49: 5,878,905 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 302,926
female: 294,747 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

8.6% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Iraq



Disputes - international:

coalition forces assist Iraqis in monitoring internal and
cross-border security; approximately two million Iraqis have fled
the conflict in Iraq, with the majority taking refuge in Syria and
Jordan, and lesser numbers to Egypt, Lebanon, Iran, and Turkey;
Iraq's lack of a maritime boundary with Iran prompts jurisdiction
disputes beyond the mouth of the Shatt al Arab in the Persian Gulf;
Turkey has expressed concern over the autonomous status of Kurds in
Iraq


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 10,000-15,000 (Palestinian
Territories); 11,773 (Iran); 16,832 (Turkey)
IDPs: 2.4 million (ongoing US-led war and ethno-sectarian violence)
(2007)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Ireland

Introduction
Ireland



Background:

Celtic tribes arrived on the island between 600-150 B.C. Invasions
by Norsemen that began in the late 8th century were finally ended
when King Brian BORU defeated the Danes in 1014. English invasions
began in the 12th century and set off more than seven centuries of
Anglo-Irish struggle marked by fierce rebellions and harsh
repressions. A failed 1916 Easter Monday Rebellion touched off
several years of guerrilla warfare that in 1921 resulted in
independence from the UK for 26 southern counties; six northern
(Ulster) counties remained part of the UK. In 1949, Ireland withdrew
from the British Commonwealth; it joined the European Community in
1973. Irish governments have sought the peaceful unification of
Ireland and have cooperated with Britain against terrorist groups. A
peace settlement for Northern Ireland is being implemented with some
difficulties. In 2006, the Irish and British governments developed
and began to implement the St. Andrews Agreement, building on the
Good Friday Agreement approved in 1998.


Geography
Ireland



Location:

Western Europe, occupying five-sixths of the island of Ireland in
the North Atlantic Ocean, west of Great Britain


Geographic coordinates:

53 00 N, 8 00 W


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 70,280 sq km
land: 68,890 sq km
water: 1,390 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than West Virginia


Land boundaries:

total: 360 km
border countries: UK 360 km


Coastline:

1,448 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm


Climate:

temperate maritime; modified by North Atlantic Current; mild
winters, cool summers; consistently humid; overcast about half the
time


Terrain:

mostly level to rolling interior plain surrounded by rugged hills
and low mountains; sea cliffs on west coast


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Carrauntoohil 1,041 m


Natural resources:

natural gas, peat, copper, lead, zinc, silver, barite, gypsum,
limestone, dolomite


Land use:

arable land: 16.82%
permanent crops: 0.03%
other: 83.15% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Total renewable water resources:

46.8 cu km (2003)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 1.18 cu km/yr (23%/77%/0%)
per capita: 284 cu m/yr (1994)


Natural hazards:

NA


Environment - current issues:

water pollution, especially of lakes, from agricultural runoff


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Sulfur 94, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83,
Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Marine Life Conservation


Geography - note:

strategic location on major air and sea routes between North America
and northern Europe; over 40% of the population resides within 100
km of Dublin


People
Ireland



Population:

4,156,119 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 20.9% (male 448,333/female 418,476)
15-64 years: 67.3% (male 1,400,222/female 1,398,194)
65 years and over: 11.8% (male 218,459/female 272,435) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 34.6 years
male: 33.9 years
female: 35.4 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.133% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

14.33 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

7.77 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

4.76 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.07 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.07 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.8 male(s)/female
total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 5.14 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 5.63 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 4.61 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 78.07 years
male: 75.44 years
female: 80.88 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.85 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

2,800 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 100 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Irishman(men), Irishwoman(women), Irish (collective plural)
adjective: Irish


Ethnic groups:

Irish 87.4%, other white 7.5%, Asian 1.3%, black 1.1%, mixed 1.1%,
unspecified 1.6% (2006 census)


Religions:

Roman Catholic 87.4%, Church of Ireland 2.9%, other Christian 1.9%,
other 2.1%, unspecified 1.5%, none 4.2% (2006 census)


Languages:

English (official) is the language generally used, Irish (Gaelic or
Gaeilge) (official) spoken mainly in areas located along the western
seaboard


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99%
male: 99%
female: 99% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 18 years
male: 17 years
female: 18 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

4.7% of GDP (2005)


Government
Ireland



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Ireland
local long form: none
local short form: Eire


Government type:

republic, parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Dublin
geographic coordinates: 53 19 N, 6 14 W
time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

26 counties; Carlow, Cavan, Clare, Cork, Donegal, Dublin, Galway,
Kerry, Kildare, Kilkenny, Laois, Leitrim, Limerick, Longford, Louth,
Mayo, Meath, Monaghan, Offaly, Roscommon, Sligo, Tipperary,
Waterford, Westmeath, Wexford, Wicklow


Independence:

6 December 1921 (from UK by treaty)


National holiday:

Saint Patrick's Day, 17 March


Constitution:

adopted 1 July 1937 by plebiscite; effective 29 December 1937


Legal system:

based on English common law, substantially modified by indigenous
concepts; judicial review of legislative acts in Supreme Court; has
not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Mary MCALEESE (since 11 November 1997)
head of government: Prime Minister Brian COWEN (since 7 May 2008)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president with previous nomination
by the prime minister and approval of the House of Representatives
elections: president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 31 October 1997
(next scheduled for October 2011); note - Mary MCALEESE appointed to
a second term when no other candidate qualified for the 2004
presidential election; prime minister (taoiseach) nominated by the
House of Representatives and appointed by the president
election results: Mary MCALEESE elected president; percent of vote -
Mary MCALEESE 44.8%, Mary BANOTTI 29.6%
note: government coalition - Fianna Fail, the Green Party, the
Progressive Democrats, and independent members of Parliament


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament or Oireachtas consists of the Senate or Seanad
Eireann (60 seats; 49 members elected by the universities and from
candidates put forward by five vocational panels, 11 are nominated
by the prime minister; to serve five-year terms) and the House of
Representatives or Dail Eireann (166 seats; members are elected by
popular vote on the basis of proportional representation to serve
five-year terms)
elections: Senate - last held in July 2007 (next to be held by July
2012); House of Representatives - last held 24 May 2007 (next to be
held by May 2012)
election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - Fianna Fail 28, Fine Gael 14, Labor Party 6, Progressive
Democrats 2, Green Party 2, Sein Fein 1, independents 7; House of
Representatives - percent of vote by party - Fianna Fail 41.6%, Fine
Gael 27.3%, Labor Party 10.1%, Sinn Fein 6.9%, Green Party 4.7%,
Progressive Democrats 2.7%, other 6.7%; seats by party - Fianna Fail
78, Fine Gael 51, Labor Party 20, Sinn Fein 4, Green Party 6,
Progressive Democrats 2, other 5


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (judges appointed by the president on the advice of
the prime minister and cabinet)


Political parties and leaders:

Fianna Fail [Brian COWEN]; Fine Gael [Enda KENNY]; Green Party [John
GORMLEY]; Labor Party [Eamon GILMORE]; Progressive Democrats [Mary
HARNEY, acting leader]; Sinn Fein [Gerry ADAMS]; Socialist Party
[Joe HIGGINS]; The Workers' Party [Sean GARLAND]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Families Acting for Innocent Relatives or FAIR [Brian McCONNELL]
(seek compensation for victims of violence); Families Against
Intimidation and Terror or FAIT (oppose terrorism); Gaeltacht Civil
Rights Campaign (Coiste Cearta Sibhialta na Gaeilge) or CCSG
(encourages the use of the Irish language and campaigns for greater
civil rights in Irish speaking areas); Irish Republican Army or IRA
(terrorist group); Keep Ireland Open (environmental group); Midland
Railway Action Group or MRAG [Willie ALLEN] (transportation
promoters); Rail Users Ireland (formerly the Platform 11 -
transportation promoters); 32 Country Sovereignty Movement or 32CSM
(supports a fully sovereign Ireland); Ulster Defence Association or
UDA (terrorist group)


International organization participation:

ADB (nonregional members), Australia Group, BIS, CE, EAPC, EBRD,
EIB, EMU, ESA, EU, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IEA,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO,
ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURSO, MONUC, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer),
OECD, OPCW, OSCE, Paris Club, PCA, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR,
UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNMIL, UNOCI, UNTSO, UPU, WCO, WEU (observer), WFTU,
WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Michael COLLINS
chancery: 2234 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 462-3939
FAX: [1] (202) 232-5993
consulate(s) general: Boston, Chicago, New York, San Francisco


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Thomas C. FOLEY
embassy: 42 Elgin Road, Ballsbridge, Dublin 4
mailing address: use embassy street address
telephone: [353] (1) 668-8777
FAX: [353] (1) 668-9946


Flag description:

three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), white, and orange;
similar to the flag of Cote d'Ivoire, which is shorter and has the
colors reversed - orange (hoist side), white, and green; also
similar to the flag of Italy, which is shorter and has colors of
green (hoist side), white, and red


Economy
Ireland



Economy - overview:

Ireland is a small, modern, trade-dependent economy with growth
averaging 6% in 1995-2007. Agriculture, once the most important
sector, is now dwarfed by industry and services. Although the
exports sector, dominated by foreign multinationals, remains a key
component of Ireland's economy, construction has most recently
fueled economic growth along with strong consumer spending and
business investment. Property prices have risen more rapidly in
Ireland in the decade up to 2006 than in any other developed world
economy. Per capita GDP is 40% above that of the four big European
economies and the second highest in the EU behind Luxembourg, and in
2007 surpassed that of the United States. The Irish Government has
implemented a series of national economic programs designed to curb
price and wage inflation, invest in infrastructure, increase labor
force skills, and promote foreign investment. A slowdown in the
property market, more intense global competition, and increased
costs, however, have compelled government economists to lower
Ireland's growth forecast slightly for 2008. Ireland joined in
circulating the euro on 1 January 2002 along with 11 other EU
nations.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$191.6 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$258.6 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$46,600 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 5%
industry: 46%
services: 49% (2002 est.)


Labor force:

2.217 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 6%
industry: 27%
services: 67% (2006 est.)


Unemployment rate:

4.6% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

7% (2005 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.9%
highest 10%: 27.2% (2000)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

32 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

26.3% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $93.22 billion
expenditures: $92.46 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

24.9% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

4.9% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

NA


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

6.52% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

NA
note: see entry for the European Union for money supply in the Euro
Area; the European Central Bank (ECB) controls monetary policy for
the 15 members of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU); individual
members of the EMU do not control the quantity of money and quasi
money circulating within their own borders


Stock of quasi money:

NA (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$768.9 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

turnips, barley, potatoes, sugar beets, wheat; beef, dairy products


Industries:

steel, lead, zinc, silver, aluminum, barite, and gypsum mining
processing; food products, brewing, textiles, clothing; chemicals,
pharmaceuticals; machinery, rail transportation equipment; glass and
crystal; software, tourism


Industrial production growth rate:

5% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

25.77 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

25.67 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

82 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

1.412 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 95.9%
hydro: 2.3%
nuclear: 0%
other: 1.7% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - consumption:

200,900 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

29,780 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

194,000 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

457 million cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

4.984 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

4.552 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

9.911 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$14.12 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$115.5 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, computers, chemicals, pharmaceuticals; live
animals, animal products


Exports - partners:

UK 18.7%, US 17.9%, Belgium 14.5%, Germany 7.4%, France 5.8% (2007)


Imports:

$84.76 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

data processing equipment, other machinery and equipment, chemicals,
petroleum and petroleum products, textiles, clothing


Imports - partners:

UK 38.3%, US 11.3%, Germany 9.7%, Netherlands 5%, France 4.2% (2007)


Economic aid - donor:

ODA, $1.022 billion (2006)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$926.2 million (2006 est.)


Debt - external:

$1.841 trillion (30 June 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$191.4 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$139.6 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$114.1 billion (2005)


Currency (code):

euro (EUR)


Currency code:

EUR


Exchange rates:

euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006), 0.8041
(2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)


Communications
Ireland



Telephones - main lines in use:

2.112 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

4.94 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: modern digital system using cable and microwave
radio relay
domestic: microwave radio relay
international: country code - 353; landing point for the
Hibernia-Atlantic submarine cable with links to the US, Canada, and
UK; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 9, FM 106, shortwave 0 (1998)


Radios:

2.55 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

4 (many repeaters) (2001)


Televisions:

1.82 million (2001)


Internet country code:

.ie


Internet hosts:

1.242 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

22 (2000)


Internet users:

1.708 million (2007)


Transportation
Ireland



Airports:

34 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 15
over 3,047 m: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
914 to 1,523 m: 4
under 914 m: 5 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 19
914 to 1,523 m: 3
under 914 m: 16 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 1,855 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 3,237 km
broad gauge: 1,872 km 1.600-m gauge (37 km electrified)
narrow gauge: 1,365 km 0.914-m gauge (operated by the Irish Peat
Board to transport peat to power stations and briquetting plants)
(2006)


Roadways:

total: 96,602 km
paved: 96,602 km (includes 200 km of expressways) (2003)


Waterways:

956 km (pleasure craft only) (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 29
by type: cargo 25, chemical tanker 2, container 1, roll on/roll off 1
foreign-owned: 2 (US 2)
registered in other countries: 21 (Bahamas 2, Bermuda 1, Bulgaria 1,
Cyprus 3, Isle of Man 1, Marshall Islands 1, Netherlands 10,
Slovakia 1, UK 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Cork, Dublin, Shannon Foynes


Military
Ireland



Military branches:

Irish Defense Forces (Oglaigh na h-Eireann): Army (includes Naval
Service and Air Corps (Aer-Chor na h-Eireann)) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

17-25 years of age for male or female voluntary military service
(17-27 years of age for the Naval Service); enlistees 16 years of
age can be recruited for apprentice specialist positions; maximum
obligation 12 years; 17-35 years of age for the Reserve Defense
Forces; EU citizenship or 5-year residence in Ireland required (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,024,635
females age 16-49: 1,024,276 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 854,982
females age 16-49: 852,592 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 28,610
female: 27,095 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0.9% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Ireland



Disputes - international:

Ireland, Iceland, and the UK dispute Denmark's claim that the Faroe
Islands' continental shelf extends beyond 200 nm


Illicit drugs:

transshipment point for and consumer of hashish from North Africa to
the UK and Netherlands and of European-produced synthetic drugs;
increasing consumption of South American cocaine; minor
transshipment point for heroin and cocaine destined for Western
Europe; despite recent legislation, narcotics-related money
laundering - using bureaux de change, trusts, and shell companies
involving the offshore financial community - remains a concern



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Isle of Man

Introduction
Isle of Man



Background:

Part of the Norwegian Kingdom of the Hebrides until the 13th century
when it was ceded to Scotland, the isle came under the British crown
in 1765. Current concerns include reviving the almost extinct Manx
Gaelic language. Isle of Man is a British crown dependency but is
not part of the UK. However, the UK Government remains
constitutionally responsible for its defense and international
representation.


Geography
Isle of Man



Location:

Western Europe, island in the Irish Sea, between Great Britain and
Ireland


Geographic coordinates:

54 15 N, 4 30 W


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 572 sq km
land: 572 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly more than three times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

160 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive fishing zone: 12 nm


Climate:

temperate; cool summers and mild winters; overcast about one-third
of the time


Terrain:

hills in north and south bisected by central valley


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Irish Sea 0 m
highest point: Snaefell 621 m


Natural resources:

none


Land use:

arable land: 9%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 91% (permanent pastures, forests, mountain, and heathland)
(2002)


Irrigated land:

0 sq km


Natural hazards:

NA


Environment - current issues:

waste disposal (both household and industrial); transboundary air
pollution


Geography - note:

one small islet, the Calf of Man, lies to the southwest and is a
bird sanctuary


People
Isle of Man



Population:

76,220 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 17% (male 6,629/female 6,318)
15-64 years: 65.9% (male 25,251/female 24,959)
65 years and over: 17.1% (male 5,294/female 7,769) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 40 years
male: 38.8 years
female: 41.3 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.509% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

10.86 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

11.02 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

5.25 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.68 male(s)/female
total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 5.62 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 6.55 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 4.64 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 78.8 years
male: 75.46 years
female: 82.32 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.65 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Manxman (men), Manxwoman (women)
adjective: Manx


Ethnic groups:

Manx (Norse-Celtic descent), Britons


Religions:

Anglican, Roman Catholic, Methodist, Baptist, Presbyterian, Society
of Friends


Languages:

English, Manx Gaelic


Literacy:

NA


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Isle of Man



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Isle of Man
abbreviation: I.O.M.


Dependency status:

British crown dependency


Government type:

parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Douglas
geographic coordinates: 54 09 N, 4 29 W
time difference: UTC 0 (five hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

none; there are no first-order administrative divisions as defined
by the US Government, but there are 24 local authorities each with
its own elections


Independence:

none (British crown dependency)


National holiday:

Tynwald Day, 5 July


Constitution:

unwritten; note - The Isle of Man Constitution Act of 1961 does not
embody the unwritten Manx Constitution


Legal system:

the laws of the UK, where applicable, apply and Manx statutes


Suffrage:

16 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Lord of Mann Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February
1952); represented by Lieutenant Governor Sir Paul K. HADDACKS
(since 17 October 2005)
head of government: Chief Minister Tony BROWN (since 14 December
2006)
cabinet: Council of Ministers
elections: the monarch is hereditary; lieutenant governor appointed
by the monarch for a five-year term; the chief minister is elected
by the Tynwald; election last held 14 December 2006 (next to be held
in December 2008)
election results: House of Keys speaker Tony BROWN elected chief
minister by the Tynwald


Legislative branch:

bicameral Tynwald consists of the Legislative Council (11 seats;
members composed of the President of Tynwald, the Lord Bishop of
Sodor and Man, a nonvoting attorney general, and 8 others named by
the House of Keys) and the House of Keys (24 seats; members are
elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: House of Keys - last held 23 November 2006 (next to be
held in November 2011)
election results: House of Keys - percent of vote by party - NA;
seats by party - Liberal Vannin Party 2, Man Labor Party 1,
independents 21


Judicial branch:

High Court of Justice (justices are appointed by the Lord Chancellor
of England on the nomination of the lieutenant governor)


Political parties and leaders:

Alliance for Progressive Government; Liberal Vannin Party [Peter
KARRAN]; Man Labor Party; Man Nationalist Party (Mec Vannin)
[Bernard MOFFATT]
note: most members sit as independents


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Alliance for Progressive Government or APG (a government watchdog);
Mec Vannin (political party advocating a sovereign state and
environment policies); note - has only had one member elected to the
Tynwald


International organization participation:

UPU


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (British crown dependency)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (British crown dependency)


Flag description:

red with the Three Legs of Man emblem (Trinacria), in the center;
the three legs are joined at the thigh and bent at the knee; in
order to have the toes pointing clockwise on both sides of the flag,
a two-sided emblem is used


Economy
Isle of Man



Economy - overview:

Offshore banking, manufacturing, and tourism are key sectors of the
economy. The government offers incentives to high-technology
companies and financial institutions to locate on the island; this
has paid off in expanding employment opportunities in high-income
industries. As a result, agriculture and fishing, once the mainstays
of the economy, have declined in their shares of GDP. The Isle of
Man also attracts online gambling sites and the film industry. Trade
is mostly with the UK. The Isle of Man enjoys free access to EU
markets.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$2.719 billion (2005 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$2.719 billion (2005 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

5.2% (2005)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$35,000 (2005 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 1%
industry: 13%
services: 86% (2000 est.)


Labor force:

39,690 (2001)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture, forestry, and fishing 3%, manufacturing 11%,
construction 10%, transport and communication 8%, wholesale and
retail distribution 11%, professional and scientific services 18%,
public administration 6%, banking and finance 18%, tourism 2%,
entertainment and catering 3%, miscellaneous services 10% (2001)


Unemployment rate:

1.5% (December 2006 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $965 million
expenditures: $943 million (FY05/06 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 April - 31 March


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

3.1% (December 2006 est.)


Agriculture - products:

cereals, vegetables; cattle, sheep, pigs, poultry


Industries:

financial services, light manufacturing, tourism


Industrial production growth rate:

3.2% (FY96/97)


Exports:

$NA


Exports - commodities:

tweeds, herring, processed shellfish, beef, lamb


Exports - partners:

UK (2006)


Imports:

$NA


Imports - commodities:

timber, fertilizers, fish


Imports - partners:

UK (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$NA


Debt - external:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Isle of Man pound (IMP), also known as the Manx pound
note: the British pound is also legal tender, but change is given in
IMP


Currency code:

GBP


Exchange rates:

Manx pounds (IMP) per US dollar - 0.4993 (2007), 0.5418 (2006),
0.5493 (2005), 0.5462 (2004), 0.6125 (2003)
note: the Manx pound is at par with the British pound


Communications
Isle of Man



Telephones - main lines in use:

51,000 (1999)


Telephone system:

general assessment: NA
domestic: landline, telefax, mobile cellular telephone system
international: fiber-optic cable, microwave radio relay, satellite
earth station, submarine cable


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 0 (1998)


Radios:

NA


Television broadcast stations:

0 (receives broadcasts from the UK and satellite) (1999)


Televisions:

27,490 (1999)


Internet country code:

.im


Internet hosts:

426 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

NA


Internet users:

NA


Transportation
Isle of Man



Airports:

1 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)


Railways:

total: 65 km
standard gauge: 7 km 1.067-m gauge (7 km electrified)
narrow gauge: 58 km 0.914-m gauge (29 km electrified)
note: primarily summer tourist attractions (2006)


Roadways:

total: 500 km (2008)


Merchant marine:

total: 273
by type: bulk carrier 31, cargo 50, chemical tanker 48, container
12, liquefied gas 41, passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 73,
refrigerated cargo 4, roll on/roll off 8, vehicle carrier 5
foreign-owned: 181 (Chile 6, Denmark 29, France 1, Germany 56,
Greece 50, Ireland 1, Japan 6, Monaco 3, Netherlands 1, Norway 20,
Singapore 1, Sweden 1, Turkey 2, US 4)
registered in other countries: 7 (Bahamas 1, Liberia 5, Marshall
Islands 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Douglas, Ramsey


Military
Isle of Man



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 471
female: 447 (2008 est.)


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of the UK


Transnational Issues
Isle of Man



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Israel

Introduction
Israel



Background:

Following World War II, the British withdrew from their mandate of
Palestine, and the UN partitioned the area into Arab and Jewish
states, an arrangement rejected by the Arabs. Subsequently, the
Israelis defeated the Arabs in a series of wars without ending the
deep tensions between the two sides. The territories Israel occupied
since the 1967 war are not included in the Israel country profile,
unless otherwise noted. On 25 April 1982, Israel withdrew from the
Sinai pursuant to the 1979 Israel-Egypt Peace Treaty. In keeping
with the framework established at the Madrid Conference in October
1991, bilateral negotiations were conducted between Israel and
Palestinian representatives and Syria to achieve a permanent
settlement. Israel and Palestinian officials signed on 13 September
1993 a Declaration of Principles (also known as the "Oslo Accords")
guiding an interim period of Palestinian self-rule. Outstanding
territorial and other disputes with Jordan were resolved in the 26
October 1994 Israel-Jordan Treaty of Peace. In addition, on 25 May
2000, Israel withdrew unilaterally from southern Lebanon, which it
had occupied since 1982. In April 2003, US President BUSH, working
in conjunction with the EU, UN, and Russia - the "Quartet" - took
the lead in laying out a roadmap to a final settlement of the
conflict by 2005, based on reciprocal steps by the two parties
leading to two states, Israel and a democratic Palestine. However,
progress toward a permanent status agreement was undermined by
Israeli-Palestinian violence between September 2003 and February
2005. An Israeli-Palestinian agreement reached at Sharm al-Sheikh in
February 2005, along with an internally-brokered Palestinian
ceasefire, significantly reduced the violence. In the summer of
2005, Israel unilaterally disengaged from the Gaza Strip, evacuating
settlers and its military while retaining control over most points
of entry into the Gaza Strip. The election of HAMAS in January 2006
to head the Palestinian Legislative Council froze relations between
Israel and the Palestinian Authority (PA). Ehud OLMERT became prime
minister in March 2006; following an Israeli military operation in
Gaza in June-July 2006 and a 34-day conflict with Hizballah in
Lebanon in June-August 2006, he shelved plans to unilaterally
evacuate from most of the West Bank. OLMERT in June 2007 resumed
talks with the PA after HAMAS seized control of the Gaza Strip and
PA President Mahmoud ABBAS formed a new government without HAMAS.


Geography
Israel



Location:

Middle East, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between Egypt and
Lebanon


Geographic coordinates:

31 30 N, 34 45 E


Map references:

Middle East


Area:

total: 20,770 sq km
land: 20,330 sq km
water: 440 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than New Jersey


Land boundaries:

total: 1,017 km
border countries: Egypt 266 km, Gaza Strip 51 km, Jordan 238 km,
Lebanon 79 km, Syria 76 km, West Bank 307 km


Coastline:

273 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
continental shelf: to depth of exploitation


Climate:

temperate; hot and dry in southern and eastern desert areas


Terrain:

Negev desert in the south; low coastal plain; central mountains;
Jordan Rift Valley


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Dead Sea -408 m
highest point: Har Meron 1,208 m


Natural resources:

timber, potash, copper ore, natural gas, phosphate rock, magnesium
bromide, clays, sand


Land use:

arable land: 15.45%
permanent crops: 3.88%
other: 80.67% (2005)


Irrigated land:

1,940 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

1.7 cu km (2001)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 2.05 cu km/yr (31%/7%/62%)
per capita: 305 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

sandstorms may occur during spring and summer; droughts; periodic
earthquakes


Environment - current issues:

limited arable land and natural fresh water resources pose serious
constraints; desertification; air pollution from industrial and
vehicle emissions; groundwater pollution from industrial and
domestic waste, chemical fertilizers, and pesticides


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: Marine Life Conservation


Geography - note:

there are about 340 Israeli civilian sites - including 100 small
outpost communities in the West Bank - as well as 42 sites in the
Golan Heights, 0 in the Gaza Strip, and 29 in East Jerusalem (July
2008 est.); Lake Tiberias (Sea of Galilee) is an important
freshwater source


People
Israel



Population:

7,112,359
note: includes about 187,000 Israeli settlers in the West Bank,
about 20,000 in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights, and fewer than
177,000 in East Jerusalem (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 28% (male 1,018,229/female 971,083)
15-64 years: 62.2% (male 2,242,928/female 2,183,688)
65 years and over: 9.8% (male 303,289/female 393,142) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 28.9 years
male: 28.2 years
female: 29.7 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.713% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

20.02 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

5.41 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

2.52 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.77 male(s)/female
total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 4.28 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 4.43 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 4.12 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 80.61 years
male: 78.54 years
female: 82.79 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.77 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

3,000 (1999 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

100 (2001 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Israeli(s)
adjective: Israeli


Ethnic groups:

Jewish 76.4% (of which Israel-born 67.1%, Europe/America-born 22.6%,
Africa-born 5.9%, Asia-born 4.2%), non-Jewish 23.6% (mostly Arab)
(2004)


Religions:

Jewish 76.4%, Muslim 16%, Arab Christians 1.7%, other Christian
0.4%, Druze 1.6%, unspecified 3.9% (2004)


Languages:

Hebrew (official), Arabic used officially for Arab minority, English
most commonly used foreign language


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 97.1%
male: 98.5%
female: 95.9% (2004 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 15 years
male: 15 years
female: 16 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

6.9% of GDP (2004)


Government
Israel



Country name:

conventional long form: State of Israel
conventional short form: Israel
local long form: Medinat Yisra'el
local short form: Yisra'el


Government type:

parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Jerusalem
geographic coordinates: 31 46 N, 35 14 E
time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Friday in March; ends the
Sunday between the holidays of Rosh Hashana and Yom Kippur
note: Israel proclaimed Jerusalem as its capital in 1950, but the
US, like nearly all other countries, maintains its Embassy in Tel
Aviv


Administrative divisions:

6 districts (mehozot, singular - mehoz); Central, Haifa, Jerusalem,
Northern, Southern, Tel Aviv


Independence:

14 May 1948 (from League of Nations mandate under British
administration)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 14 May (1948); note - Israel declared independence
on 14 May 1948, but the Jewish calendar is lunar and the holiday may
occur in April or May


Constitution:

no formal constitution; some of the functions of a constitution are
filled by the Declaration of Establishment (1948), the Basic Laws of
the parliament (Knesset), and the Israeli citizenship law; note -
since May 2003 the Constitution, Law, and Justice Committee of the
Knesset has been working on a draft constitution


Legal system:

mixture of English common law, British Mandate regulations, and, in
personal matters, Jewish, Christian, and Muslim legal systems; in
December 1985, Israel informed the UN Secretariat that it would no
longer accept compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Shimon PERES (since 15 July 2007)
head of government: Prime Minister Ehud OLMERT (since May 2006);
Deputy Prime Minister Tzipora "Tzipi" LIVNI; note - Prime Minister
OLMERT resigned on 17 September 2008, but will serve as acting prime
minister until a new government is formed
cabinet: Cabinet selected by prime minister and approved by the
Knesset
elections: president is largely a ceremonial role and is elected by
the Knesset for a seven-year term (one-term limit); election last
held 13 June 2007 (next to be held in 2014 but can be called
earlier); following legislative elections, the president assigns a
Knesset member - traditionally the leader of the largest party - the
task of forming a governing coalition
note: government coalition - Kadima, Labor Party, GIL (Pensioners),
and SHAS
election results: Shimon PERES elected president; number of votes in
first round - Shimon PERES 58, Reuven RIVLIN 37, Colette AVITAL 21;
PERES elected president in second round with 86 votes (unopposed)


Legislative branch:

unicameral Knesset (120 seats; members elected by popular vote to
serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 28 March 2006 (next scheduled to be held in
February 2009)
election results: percent of vote by party - Kadima 22%, Labor
15.1%, SHAS 9.5%, Likud 9%, Yisrael Beiteinu 9%, NU/NRP 7.1%, GIL
5.9%, Torah and Shabbat Judaism 4.7%, Meretz-YAHAD 3.8%, United Arab
List 3%, Balad 2.3%, HADASH 2.7%, other 5.9%; seats by party -
Kadima 29, Labor 19, Likud 12, SHAS 12, Yisrael Beiteinu 11, NU/NRP
9, GIL 7, Torah and Shabbat Judaism 6, Meretz-YAHAD 5, United Arab
List 4, Balad 3, HADASH 3


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (justices appointed by Judicial Selection Committee -
made up of all three branches of the government; mandatory
retirement age is 70)


Political parties and leaders:

Balad [Azmi BISHARA]; Democratic Front for Peace and Equality
(HADASH) [Muhammad BARAKEH]; GIL (Pensioners) [Rafael "Rafi" EITAN];
Kadima [Tzipora "Tzipi" LIVNI]; Labor Party [Ehud BARAK]; Likud
[Binyamin NETANYAHU]; Meretz-Yachad [Haim ORON]; National Democratic
Assembly (Balad) [Jamal ZAHALKA]; National Union (NU)/National
Religious Party (NRP) [Binyamin ELON]; SHAS [Eliyahu YISHAI]; Torah
and Shabbat Judaism or UTJ [Yaakov LITZMAN]; United Arab List
[Ibrahim SARSUR]; Yisrael Beiteinu [Avigdor LIEBERMAN]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

B'Tselem [Jessica MONTELL, Executive Director] monitors human rights
abuses; Peace Now [Yariv OPPENHEIMER, Secretary General] supports
territorial concessions in the West Bank and Gaza Strip; YESHA
Council of Settlements [Danny DAYAN, Chairman] promotes settler
interests and opposes territorial compromise


International organization participation:

BIS, BSEC (observer), CERN (observer), EBRD, FAO, IADB, IAEA, IBRD,
ICAO, ICC, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF,
IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, OAS
(observer), OPCW (signatory), OSCE (partner), PCA, SECI (observer),
UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Salai MERIDOR
chancery: 3514 International Drive NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 364-5500
FAX: [1] (202) 364-5607
consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los
Angeles, Miami, New York, Philadelphia, San Francisco


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador James B. CUNNINGHAM
embassy: 71 Hayarkon Street, Tel Aviv 63903
mailing address: PSC 98, Box 29, APO AE 09830
telephone: [972] (3) 519-7575
FAX: [972] (3) 516-4390
consulate(s) general: Jerusalem; note - an independent US mission,
established in 1928, whose members are not accredited to a foreign
government


Flag description:

white with a blue hexagram (six-pointed linear star) known as the
Magen David (Shield of David) centered between two equal horizontal
blue bands near the top and bottom edges of the flag


Economy
Israel



Economy - overview:

Israel has a technologically advanced market economy with
substantial, though diminishing, government participation. It
depends on imports of crude oil, grains, raw materials, and military
equipment. Despite limited natural resources, Israel has intensively
developed its agricultural and industrial sectors over the past 20
years. Israel imports substantial quantities of grain but is largely
self-sufficient in other agricultural products. Cut diamonds,
high-technology equipment, and agricultural products (fruits and
vegetables) are the leading exports. Israel usually posts sizable
trade deficits, which are covered by large transfer payments from
abroad and by foreign loans. Roughly half of the government's
external debt is owed to the US, its major source of economic and
military aid. Israel's GDP, after contracting slightly in 2001 and
2002 due to the Palestinian conflict and troubles in the
high-technology sector, has grown by about 5% per year since 2003.
The economy grew an estimated 5.4% in 2007, the fastest pace since
2000. The government's prudent fiscal policy and structural reforms
over the past few years have helped to induce strong foreign
investment, tax revenues, and private consumption, setting the
economy on a solid growth path.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$185.8 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$161.9 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

5.3% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$26,600 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 2.7%
industry: 30.2%
services: 67.1% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

2.894 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture 18.5%, industry 23.7%, services 50%, other 7.8% (2002)


Unemployment rate:

7.3% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

21.6%
note: Israel's poverty line is $7.30 per person per day (2005)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.4%
highest 10%: 28.3% (2005)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

38.6 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

18.5% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $53.6 billion
expenditures: $53.63 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

80.6% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

0.5% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

4% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

6.27% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$15.36 billion (31 December 2006)


Stock of quasi money:

$154.3 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$113.4 billion (31 December 2006)


Agriculture - products:

citrus, vegetables, cotton; beef, poultry, dairy products


Industries:

high-technology projects (including aviation, communications,
computer-aided design and manufactures, medical electronics, fiber
optics), wood and paper products, potash and phosphates, food,
beverages, and tobacco, caustic soda, cement, construction, metals
products, chemical products, plastics, diamond cutting, textiles,
footwear


Industrial production growth rate:

4.1% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

48.7 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

44.74 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

1.844 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 99.9%
hydro: 0.1%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

5,966 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

232,300 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

82,910 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

334,300 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

1.94 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

970 million cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

970 million cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

30.44 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$5.197 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$50.37 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, software, cut diamonds, agricultural
products, chemicals, textiles and apparel


Exports - partners:

US 35%, Belgium 7.5%, Hong Kong 5.8% (2007)


Imports:

$55.79 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

raw materials, military equipment, investment goods, rough diamonds,
fuels, grain, consumer goods


Imports - partners:

US 13.9%, Belgium 7.9%, Germany 6.2%, China 6.1%, Switzerland 5.1%,
UK 4.7%, Italy 4.1% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$240 million from US (FY06)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$28.52 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$89.95 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$57.97 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$41.96 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$173.3 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

new Israeli shekel (ILS); note - NIS is the currency abbreviation;
ILS is the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) code
for the NIS


Currency code:

ILS


Exchange rates:

new Israeli shekels (ILS) per US dollar - 4.14 (2007), 4.4565
(2006), 4.4877 (2005), 4.482 (2004), 4.5541 (2003)


Communications
Israel



Telephones - main lines in use:

3.005 million (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

8.902 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: most highly developed system in the Middle East
although not the largest
domestic: good system of coaxial cable and microwave radio relay;
all systems are digital; four privately-owned mobile-cellular
service providers with countrywide coverage; mobile-cellular
teledensity is 140 per 100 persons
international: country code - 972; submarine cables provide links to
Europe, Cyprus, and parts of the Middle East; satellite earth
stations - 3 Intelsat (2 Atlantic Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 23, FM 15, shortwave 2 (1998)


Radios:

3.07 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

17 (plus 36 repeaters) (1995)


Televisions:

1.69 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.il


Internet hosts:

1.415 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

21 (2000)


Internet users:

2 million (2007)


Transportation
Israel



Airports:

53 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 30
over 3,047 m: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 5
1,524 to 2,437 m: 7
914 to 1,523 m: 10
under 914 m: 6 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 23
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 2
under 914 m: 20 (2007)


Heliports:

3 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 160 km; oil 442 km; refined products 261 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 853 km
standard gauge: 853 km 1.435-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 17,870 km
paved: 17,870 km (includes 146 km of expressways) (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 11
by type: cargo 2, container 9
registered in other countries: 60 (Bermuda 3, Cyprus 4, Georgia 2,
Honduras 1, Liberia 23, Malta 18, Panama 3, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines 2, Slovakia 4) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Ashdod, Elat (Eilat), Hadera, Haifa


Military
Israel



Military branches:

Israel Defense Forces (IDF), Israel Naval Forces (INF), Israel Air
Force (IAF) (2007)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for compulsory (Jews, Druzes) and voluntary
(Christians, Muslims, Circassians) military service; both sexes are
obligated to military service; conscript service obligation - 36
months for enlisted men, 21 months for enlisted women, 48 months for
officers; reserve obligation to age 41-51 (men), 24 (women) (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,717,362
females age 16-49: 1,636,574 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,452,926
females age 16-49: 1,383,796 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 60,602
female: 57,532 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

7.3% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Israel



Disputes - international:

West Bank and Gaza Strip are Israeli-occupied with current status
subject to the Israeli-Palestinian Interim Agreement - permanent
status to be determined through further negotiation; Israel
continues construction of a "seam line" separation barrier along
parts of the Green Line and within the West Bank; Israel withdrew
its settlers and military from the Gaza Strip and from four
settlements in the West Bank in August 2005; Golan Heights is
Israeli-occupied (Lebanon claims the Shab'a Farms area of Golan
Heights); since 1948, about 350 peacekeepers from the UN Truce
Supervision Organization (UNTSO) headquartered in Jerusalem monitor
ceasefires, supervise armistice agreements, prevent isolated
incidents from escalating, and assist other UN personnel in the
region


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

IDPs: 150,000-420,000 (Arab villagers displaced from homes in
northern Israel) (2007)


Illicit drugs:

increasingly concerned about ecstasy, cocaine, and heroin abuse;
drugs arrive in country from Lebanon and, increasingly, from Jordan;
money-laundering center



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Italy

Introduction
Italy



Background:

Italy became a nation-state in 1861 when the regional states of the
peninsula, along with Sardinia and Sicily, were united under King
Victor EMMANUEL II. An era of parliamentary government came to a
close in the early 1920s when Benito MUSSOLINI established a Fascist
dictatorship. His alliance with Nazi Germany led to Italy's defeat
in World War II. A democratic republic replaced the monarchy in 1946
and economic revival followed. Italy was a charter member of NATO
and the European Economic Community (EEC). It has been at the
forefront of European economic and political unification, joining
the Economic and Monetary Union in 1999. Persistent problems include
illegal immigration, organized crime, corruption, high unemployment,
sluggish economic growth, and the low incomes and technical
standards of southern Italy compared with the prosperous north.


Geography
Italy



Location:

Southern Europe, a peninsula extending into the central
Mediterranean Sea, northeast of Tunisia


Geographic coordinates:

42 50 N, 12 50 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 301,230 sq km
land: 294,020 sq km
water: 7,210 sq km
note: includes Sardinia and Sicily


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than Arizona


Land boundaries:

total: 1,899.2 km
border countries: Austria 430 km, France 488 km, Holy See (Vatican
City) 3.2 km, San Marino 39 km, Slovenia 199 km, Switzerland 740 km


Coastline:

7,600 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
continental shelf: 200 m depth or to the depth of exploitation


Climate:

predominantly Mediterranean; Alpine in far north; hot, dry in south


Terrain:

mostly rugged and mountainous; some plains, coastal lowlands


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Mediterranean Sea 0 m
highest point: Mont Blanc (Monte Bianco) de Courmayeur 4,748 m (a
secondary peak of Mont Blanc)


Natural resources:

coal, mercury, zinc, potash, marble, barite, asbestos, pumice,
fluorspar, feldspar, pyrite (sulfur), natural gas and crude oil
reserves, fish, arable land


Land use:

arable land: 26.41%
permanent crops: 9.09%
other: 64.5% (2005)


Irrigated land:

27,500 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

175 cu km (2005)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 41.98 cu km/yr (18%/37%/45%)
per capita: 723 cu m/yr (1998)


Natural hazards:

regional risks include landslides, mudflows, avalanches,
earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, flooding; land subsidence in Venice


Environment - current issues:

air pollution from industrial emissions such as sulfur dioxide;
coastal and inland rivers polluted from industrial and agricultural
effluents; acid rain damaging lakes; inadequate industrial waste
treatment and disposal facilities


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83,
Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

strategic location dominating central Mediterranean as well as
southern sea and air approaches to Western Europe


People
Italy



Population:

58,145,320 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 13.6% (male 4,086,951/female 3,842,765)
15-64 years: 66.3% (male 19,534,247/female 19,024,776)
65 years and over: 20% (male 4,864,189/female 6,792,393) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 42.9 years
male: 41.4 years
female: 44.4 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

-0.019% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

8.36 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

10.61 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

2.06 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.07 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.72 male(s)/female
total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 5.61 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 6.19 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 5 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 80.07 years
male: 77.13 years
female: 83.2 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.3 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.5% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

140,000 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 1,000 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Italian(s)
adjective: Italian


Ethnic groups:

Italian (includes small clusters of German-, French-, and
Slovene-Italians in the north and Albanian-Italians and
Greek-Italians in the south)


Religions:

Roman Catholic 90% (approximately; about one-third practicing),
other 10% (includes mature Protestant and Jewish communities and a
growing Muslim immigrant community)


Languages:

Italian (official), German (parts of Trentino-Alto Adige region are
predominantly German speaking), French (small French-speaking
minority in Valle d'Aosta region), Slovene (Slovene-speaking
minority in the Trieste-Gorizia area)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 98.4%
male: 98.8%
female: 98% (2001 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 16 years
male: 16 years
female: 17 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

4.5% of GDP (2005)


Government
Italy



Country name:

conventional long form: Italian Republic
conventional short form: Italy
local long form: Repubblica Italiana
local short form: Italia
former: Kingdom of Italy


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Rome
geographic coordinates: 41 54 N, 12 29 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

15 regions (regioni, singular - regione) and 5 autonomous regions*
(regioni autonome, singular - regione autonoma); Abruzzo,
Basilicata, Calabria, Campania, Emilia-Romagna, Friuli-Venezia
Giulia*, Lazio (Latium), Liguria, Lombardia, Marche, Molise,
Piemonte (Piedmont), Puglia (Apulia), Sardegna* (Sardinia),
Sicilia*, Toscana (Tuscany), Trentino-Alto Adige* (Trentino-South
Tyrol), Umbria, Valle d'Aosta* (Aosta Valley), Veneto (Venetia)


Independence:

17 March 1861 (Kingdom of Italy proclaimed; Italy was not finally
unified until 1870)


National holiday:

Republic Day, 2 June (1946)


Constitution:

passed 11 December 1947, effective 1 January 1948; amended many times


Legal system:

based on civil law system; appeals treated as new trials; judicial
review under certain conditions in Constitutional Court; has not
accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal (except in senatorial elections, where
minimum age is 25)


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Giorgio NAPOLITANO (since 15 May 2006)
head of government: Prime Minister Silvio BERLUSCONI (referred to in
Italy as the president of the Council of Ministers) (since 8 May
2008) note - in Italy the prime minister is referred to as the
president of the Council of Ministers
cabinet: Council of Ministers nominated by the prime minister and
approved by the president
elections: president elected by an electoral college consisting of
both houses of parliament and 58 regional representatives for a
seven-year term (no term limits); election last held 10 May 2006
(next to be held in May 2013); prime minister appointed by the
president and confirmed by parliament
election results: Giorgio NAPOLITANO elected president on the fourth
round of voting; electoral college vote - 543


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament or Parlamento consists of the Senate or Senato
della Repubblica (315 seats; members elected by proportional vote
with the winning coalition in each region receiving 55% of seats
from that region; to serve five-year terms) and the Chamber of
Deputies or Camera dei Deputati (630 seats; members elected by
popular vote with the winning national coalition receiving 54% of
chamber seats; to serve five-year terms)
elections: Senate - last held 13-14 April 2008 (next to be held
April 2010); Chamber of Deputies - last held 13-14 April 2008 (next
to be held in April 2010)
election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - S. BERLUSCONI coalition 174 (PdL 147, LN 25, MpA 2), W.
VELTRONI coalition 132 (PD 118, IdV 3), UdC 3, other 6; Chamber of
Deputies - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - S.
BERLUSCONI coalition 344 (PdL 276, LN 60, MpA 8), W. VELTRONI
coalition 246 (PD 217, IdV 29), UdC 36, other 4


Judicial branch:

Constitutional Court or Corte Costituzionale (composed of 15 judges:
one-third appointed by the president, one-third elected by
parliament, one-third elected by the ordinary and administrative
Supreme Courts)


Political parties and leaders:

Silvio BERLUSCONI coalition: People of Freedom or PdL [Silvio
BERLUSCONI]; Lega Nord or LN [Umberto BOSSI]; Movement for Autonomy
or MpA [Raffaele LOMBARDO]
Walter VELTRONI coalition: Democratic Party or PD [Walter VELTRONI];
Italy of Values or IdV [Antonio DI PIETRO]
other non-allied parties: Union of the Centre or UdC [Savino
PEZZOTTA]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

manufacturers and merchants associations - Confcommercio;
Confindustria; organized farm groups - Confcoltivatori;
Confagricoltura; Roman Catholic Church; three major trade union
confederations - Confederazione Generale Italiana del Lavoro or CGIL
[Guglielmo EPIFANI] which is left wing; Confederazione Italiana dei
Sindacati Lavoratori or CISL [Raffaele BONANNO], which is Roman
Catholic centrist; Unione Italiana del Lavoro or UIL [Luigi
ANGELETTI] which is lay centrist)


International organization participation:

ADB (nonregional members), AfDB (nonregional members), Arctic
Council (observer), Australia Group, BIS, BSEC (observer), CBSS
(observer), CDB, CE, CEI, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EMU, ESA, EU, FAO,
G-7, G-8, G-10, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IEA,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU,
ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAIA (observer), MIGA, MINURSO, NAM (guest),
NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, Paris Club, PCA,
Schengen Convention, SECI (observer), UN, UN Security Council
(temporary), UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, Union Latina,
UNMOGIP, UNRWA, UNTSO, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WEU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
WMO, WTO, ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Giovanni CASTELLANETA
chancery: 3000 Whitehaven Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 612-4400
FAX: [1] (202) 518-2151
consulate(s) general: Boston, Chicago, Houston, Miami, New York, Los
Angeles, Philadelphia, San Francisco
consulate(s): Detroit


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Ronald P. SPOGLI
embassy: Via Vittorio Veneto 121, 00187-Rome
mailing address: PSC 59, Box 100, APO AE 09624
telephone: [39] (06) 46741
FAX: [39] (06) 488-2672, 4674-2356
consulate(s) general: Florence, Milan, Naples


Flag description:

three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), white, and red;
similar to the flag of Ireland, which is longer and is green (hoist
side), white, and orange; also similar to the flag of the Cote
d'Ivoire, which has the colors reversed - orange (hoist side),
white, and green; inspired by the French flag brought to Italy by
Napoleon in 1797


Economy
Italy



Economy - overview:

Italy has a diversified industrial economy with roughly the same
total and per capita output as France and the UK. This capitalistic
economy remains divided into a developed industrial north, dominated
by private companies, and a less-developed, welfare-dependent,
agricultural south, with 20% unemployment. Most raw materials needed
by industry and more than 75% of energy requirements are imported.
Over the past decade, Italy has pursued a tight fiscal policy in
order to meet the requirements of the Economic and Monetary Unions
and has benefited from lower interest and inflation rates. The
current government has enacted numerous short-term reforms aimed at
improving competitiveness and long-term growth. Italy has moved
slowly, however, on implementing needed structural reforms, such as
lightening the high tax burden and overhauling Italy's rigid labor
market and over-generous pension system, because of the current
economic slowdown and opposition from labor unions. But the
leadership faces a severe economic constraint: Italy's official debt
remains above 100% of GDP, and the government has found it difficult
to bring the budget deficit down to a level that would allow a rapid
decrease in that debt. The economy continues to grow by less than
the euro-zone average and growth is expected to decelerate from 1.9%
in 2006 and 2007 to under 1.5% in 2008 as the euro-zone and world
economies slow.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$1.8 trillion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$2.105 trillion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

1.4% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$30,900 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 2%
industry: 27%
services: 70.9% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

24.74 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 5%
industry: 32%
services: 63% (2001)


Unemployment rate:

6.2% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.3%
highest 10%: 26.8% (2000)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

33 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

21% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $991.2 billion
expenditures: $1.031 trillion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

104% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

1.8% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

NA


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

10.93% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

NA
note: see entry for the European Union for money supply in the Euro
Area; the European Central Bank (ECB) controls monetary policy for
the 15 members of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU); individual
members of the EMU do not control the quantity of money and quasi
money circulating within their own borders


Stock of quasi money:

NA (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$3.084 trillion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

fruits, vegetables, grapes, potatoes, sugar beets, soybeans, grain,
olives; beef, dairy products; fish


Industries:

tourism, machinery, iron and steel, chemicals, food processing,
textiles, motor vehicles, clothing, footwear, ceramics


Industrial production growth rate:

0.6% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

292.1 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

316.3 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

2.64 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

48.57 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 78.6%
hydro: 18.4%
nuclear: 0%
other: 3% (2001)


Oil - production:

166,600 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

1.702 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

616,700 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

2.223 million bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

406.5 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

9.706 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

84.89 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

68 million cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

73.95 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

94.15 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$51.03 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$502.4 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

engineering products, textiles and clothing, production machinery,
motor vehicles, transport equipment, chemicals; food, beverages and
tobacco; minerals, and nonferrous metals


Exports - partners:

Germany 12.9%, France 11.4%, Spain 7.4%, US 6.8%, UK 5.8% (2007)


Imports:

$498.1 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

engineering products, chemicals, transport equipment, energy
products, minerals and nonferrous metals, textiles and clothing;
food, beverages, and tobacco


Imports - partners:

Germany 16.9%, France 9%, China 5.9%, Netherlands 5.5%, Belgium
4.3%, Spain 4.2% (2007)


Economic aid - donor:

ODA, $3.641 billion (2006)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$94.33 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$996.3 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$364.8 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$520.1 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$798.2 billion (2005)


Currency (code):

euro (EUR)


Currency code:

EUR


Exchange rates:

euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006), 0.8041
(2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)


Communications
Italy



Telephones - main lines in use:

26.89 million (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

78.571 million (2006)


Telephone system:

general assessment: modern, well developed, fast; fully automated
telephone, telex, and data services
domestic: high-capacity cable and microwave radio relay trunks
international: country code - 39; a series of submarine cables
provide links to Asia, Middle East, Europe, North Africa, and US;
satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (with a total of 5 antennas -
3 for Atlantic Ocean and 2 for Indian Ocean), 1 Inmarsat (Atlantic
Ocean region), and NA Eutelsat


Radio broadcast stations:

AM about 100, FM about 4,600, shortwave 9 (1998)


Radios:

50.5 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

358 (plus 4,728 repeaters) (1995)


Televisions:

30.3 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.it


Internet hosts:

17.702 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

93 (Italy and Holy See) (2000)


Internet users:

32 million (2007)


Transportation
Italy



Airports:

132 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 101
over 3,047 m: 7
2,438 to 3,047 m: 32
1,524 to 2,437 m: 15
914 to 1,523 m: 34
under 914 m: 13 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 31
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 11
under 914 m: 19 (2007)


Heliports:

5 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 18,863 km; oil 1,258 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 19,460 km
standard gauge: 18,038 km 1.435-m gauge (11,354 km electrified)
narrow gauge: 123 km 1.000-m gauge (123 km electrified); 1,299 km
0.950-m gauge (161 km electrified) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 487,700 km
paved: 487,700 km (includes 6,700 km of expressways) (2005)


Waterways:

2,400 km
note: used for commercial traffic; of limited overall value compared
to road and rail (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 609
by type: bulk carrier 60, cargo 47, carrier 2, chemical tanker 159,
combination ore/oil 1, container 25, liquefied gas 27, passenger 22,
passenger/cargo 154, petroleum tanker 35, refrigerated cargo 4, roll
on/roll off 33, specialized tanker 13, vehicle carrier 27
foreign-owned: 64 (Denmark 3, France 2, Greece 6, Japan 1, Lebanon
1, Nigeria 1, Norway 2, Portugal 1, Sweden 1, Switzerland 8, Taiwan
13, Turkey 1, UK 7, US 17)
registered in other countries: 208 (Antigua and Barbuda 1, Bahamas
4, Belize 3, Cayman Islands 4, Cyprus 7, France 2, Liberia 41, Malta
50, Marshall Islands 3, Netherlands 1, Norway 4, Panama 28, Portugal
12, Russia 4, Saint Kitts and Nevis 1, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines 17, Singapore 5, Slovakia 2, Spain 2, Sweden 9, Turkey 3,
UK 5) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Augusta, Genoa, Livorno, Ravenna, Sarroch, Taranto, Trieste, Venice


Military
Italy



Military branches:

Italian Army (Esercito Italiano, EI), Italian Navy (Marina Militare
Italiana, MMI), Italian Air Force (Aeronautica Militare Italiana,
AMI), Carabinieri Corps (Arma dei Carabinieri, CC) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18-27 year of age for voluntary military service; conscription
abolished January 2005; women may serve in any military branch;
10-month service obligation, with a reserve obligation to age 45
(Army and Air Force) or 39 (Navy) (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 13,884,079
females age 16-49: 13,158,378 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 11,285,488
females age 16-49: 10,680,672 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 290,740
female: 273,569 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.8% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Italy



Disputes - international:

Italy's long coastline and developed economy entices tens of
thousands of illegal immigrants from southeastern Europe and
northern Africa


Illicit drugs:

important gateway for and consumer of Latin American cocaine and
Southwest Asian heroin entering the European market; money
laundering by organized crime and from smuggling



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Jamaica

Introduction
Jamaica



Background:

The island - discovered by Christopher COLUMBUS in 1494 - was
settled by the Spanish early in the 16th century. The native Taino
Indians, who had inhabited Jamaica for centuries, were gradually
exterminated and replaced by African slaves. England seized the
island in 1655 and established a plantation economy based on sugar,
cocoa, and coffee. The abolition of slavery in 1834 freed a quarter
million slaves, many of whom became small farmers. Jamaica gradually
obtained increasing independence from Britain, and in 1958 it joined
other British Caribbean colonies in forming the Federation of the
West Indies. Jamaica gained full independence when it withdrew from
the Federation in 1962. Deteriorating economic conditions during the
1970s led to recurrent violence as rival gangs affiliated with the
major political parties evolved into powerful organized crime
networks involved in international drug smuggling and money
laundering. Violent crime, drug trafficking, and poverty pose
significant challenges to the government today. Nonetheless, many
rural and resort areas remain relatively safe and contribute
substantially to the economy.


Geography
Jamaica



Location:

Caribbean, island in the Caribbean Sea, south of Cuba


Geographic coordinates:

18 15 N, 77 30 W


Map references:

Central America and the Caribbean


Area:

total: 10,991 sq km
land: 10,831 sq km
water: 160 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Connecticut


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

1,022 km


Maritime claims:

measured from claimed archipelagic straight baselines
territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm or to edge of the continental margin


Climate:

tropical; hot, humid; temperate interior


Terrain:

mostly mountains, with narrow, discontinuous coastal plain


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
highest point: Blue Mountain Peak 2,256 m


Natural resources:

bauxite, gypsum, limestone


Land use:

arable land: 15.83%
permanent crops: 10.01%
other: 74.16% (2005)


Irrigated land:

250 sq km (2002)


Total renewable water resources:

9.4 cu km (2000)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.41 cu km/yr (34%/17%/49%)
per capita: 155 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

hurricanes (especially July to November)


Environment - current issues:

heavy rates of deforestation; coastal waters polluted by industrial
waste, sewage, and oil spills; damage to coral reefs; air pollution
in Kingston results from vehicle emissions


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

strategic location between Cayman Trench and Jamaica Channel, the
main sea lanes for the Panama Canal


People
Jamaica



Population:

2,804,332 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 32% (male 455,871/female 440,928)
15-64 years: 60.6% (male 837,241/female 861,906)
65 years and over: 7.4% (male 93,415/female 114,971) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 23.4 years
male: 22.9 years
female: 24 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.779% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

20.04 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

6.37 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-5.88 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.97 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.81 male(s)/female
total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 15.57 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 16.19 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 14.92 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 73.59 years
male: 71.88 years
female: 75.38 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.3 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

1.2% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

22,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

900 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Jamaican(s)
adjective: Jamaican


Ethnic groups:

black 91.2%, mixed 6.2%, other or unknown 2.6% (2001 census)


Religions:

Protestant 62.5% (Seventh-Day Adventist 10.8%, Pentecostal 9.5%,
Other Church of God 8.3%, Baptist 7.2%, New Testament Church of God
6.3%, Church of God in Jamaica 4.8%, Church of God of Prophecy 4.3%,
Anglican 3.6%, other Christian 7.7%), Roman Catholic 2.6%, other or
unspecified 14.2%, none 20.9%, (2001 census)


Languages:

English, English patois


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over has ever attended school
total population: 87.9%
male: 84.1%
female: 91.6% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 12 years
male: 11 years
female: 12 years (2003)


Education expenditures:

5.3% of GDP (2005)


Government
Jamaica



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Jamaica


Government type:

constitutional parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Kingston
geographic coordinates: 18 00 N, 76 48 W
time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard
Time)


Administrative divisions:

14 parishes; Clarendon, Hanover, Kingston, Manchester, Portland,
Saint Andrew, Saint Ann, Saint Catherine, Saint Elizabeth, Saint
James, Saint Mary, Saint Thomas, Trelawny, Westmoreland
note: for local government purposes, Kingston and Saint Andrew were
amalgamated in 1923 into the present single corporate body known as
the Kingston and Saint Andrew Corporation


Independence:

6 August 1962 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 6 August (1962)


Constitution:

6 August 1962


Legal system:

based on English common law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by Governor General Kenneth O. HALL (since 15 February
2006)
head of government: Prime Minister Bruce GOLDING (since 11 September
2007)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the advice of
the prime minister
elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor general appointed by
the monarch on the recommendation of the prime minister; following
legislative elections, the leader of the majority party or the
leader of the majority coalition in the House of Representatives is
appointed prime minister by the governor general; the deputy prime
minister is recommended by the prime minister


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (a 21-member body
appointed by the governor general on the recommendations of the
prime minister and the leader of the opposition; ruling party is
allocated 13 seats, and the opposition is allocated 8 seats) and the
House of Representatives (60 seats; members are elected by popular
vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held 3 September 2007 (next to be held no later than
October 2012)
election results: percent of vote by party - JLP 50.1%, PNP 49.8%;
seats by party - JLP 33, PNP 27


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (judges appointed by the governor general on the
advice of the prime minister); Court of Appeal


Political parties and leaders:

Jamaica Labor Party or JLP [Bruce GOLDING]; People's National Party
or PNP [Portia SIMPSON-MILLER]; National Democratic Movement or NDM
[Michael WILLIAMS]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

New Beginnings Movement or NBM; Rastafarians (black religious/racial
cultists, pan-Africanists)


International organization participation:

ACP, C, Caricom, CDB, FAO, G-15, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt
(signatory), ICRM, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol,
IOC, IOM, ISO, ITSO, ITU, LAES, MIGA, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Anthony JOHNSON
chancery: 1520 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036
telephone: [1] (202) 452-0660
FAX: [1] (202) 452-0081
consulate(s) general: Miami, New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Brenda LaGrange JOHNSON
embassy: 142 Old Hope Road, Kingston 6
mailing address: P.O. Box 541, Kingston 5
telephone: [1] (876) 702-6000
FAX: [1] (876) 702-6001


Flag description:

diagonal yellow cross divides the flag into four triangles - green
(top and bottom) and black (hoist side and outer side)


Economy
Jamaica



Economy - overview:

The Jamaican economy is heavily dependent on services, which now
account for more than 60% of GDP. The country continues to derive
most of its foreign exchange from tourism, remittances, and
bauxite/alumina. Remittances account for nearly 20% of GDP and are
equivalent to tourism revenues. Jamaica's economy, already saddled
with a record of sluggish growth, will suffer an economic setback
from damages caused by Hurricane Dean in August 2007. The economy
faces serious long-term problems: high but declining interest rates,
increased foreign competition, exchange rate instability, a sizable
merchandise trade deficit, large-scale unemployment and
underemployment, and a debt-to-GDP ratio of 135%. Jamaica's onerous
debt burden - the fourth highest per capita - is the result of
government bailouts to ailing sectors of the economy, most notably
the financial sector in the mid-to-late 1990s. Inflation also has
declined, standing at about 7% at the end of 2007. High unemployment
exacerbates the serious crime problem, including gang violence that
is fueled by the drug trade. The GOLDING administration faces the
difficult prospect of having to achieve fiscal discipline in order
to maintain debt payments while simultaneously attacking a serious
and growing crime problem that is hampering economic growth.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$20.48 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$11.21 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

1.2% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$7,400 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 5.1%
industry: 32.7%
services: 62.2% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

1.255 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 17%
industry: 19%
services: 64% (2006)


Unemployment rate:

9.9% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

14.8% (2003 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.1%
highest 10%: 35.8% (2004)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

45.5 (2004)


Investment (gross fixed):

34.2% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $3.716 billion
expenditures: $4.261 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 April - 31 March


Public debt:

126.5% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

9.5% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

NA (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

17.2% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$1.369 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$4.54 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$6.609 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

sugarcane, bananas, coffee, citrus, yams, ackees, vegetables;
poultry, goats, milk; crustaceans, mollusks


Industries:

tourism, bauxite/alumina, agro processing, light manufactures, rum,
cement, metal, paper, chemical products, telecommunications


Industrial production growth rate:

1.2% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

7.04 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

6.1 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 96.8%
hydro: 1.8%
nuclear: 0%
other: 1.4% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - consumption:

73,370 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

1,535 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

71,280 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$1.83 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$2.331 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

alumina, bauxite, sugar, bananas, rum, coffee, yams, beverages,
chemicals, wearing apparel, mineral fuels


Exports - partners:

US 37.2%, Canada 15%, UK 9.7%, Netherlands 9.1% (2007)


Imports:

$5.784 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

food and other consumer goods, industrial supplies, fuel, parts and
accessories of capital goods, machinery and transport equipment,
construction materials


Imports - partners:

US 37.2%, Trinidad and Tobago 14.5%, Grenada 9.7%, Venezuela 8.3%,
Brazil 4.2% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$35.74 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$1.905 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$9.657 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$12.28 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

Jamaican dollar (JMD)


Currency code:

JMD


Exchange rates:

Jamaican dollars (JMD) per US dollar - 69.034 (2007), 65.768 (2006),
62.51 (2005), 61.197 (2004), 57.741 (2003)


Communications
Jamaica



Telephones - main lines in use:

342,000 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

2.495 million (2006)


Telephone system:

general assessment: fully automatic domestic telephone network
domestic: the 1999 agreement to open the market for
telecommunications services resulted in rapid growth in
mobile-cellular telephone usage while the number of fixed-lines in
use has declined; combined mobile-cellular teledensity now exceeds
100 per 100 persons
international: country code - 1-876; the Fibralink submarine cable
network provides enhanced delivery of business and broadband traffic
and is linked to the Americas Region Caribbean Ring System (ARCOS-1)
submarine cable in the Dominican Republic; the link to ARCOS-1
provides seamless connectivity to US, parts of the Caribbean,
Central America, and South America; satellite earth stations - 2
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2006)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 10, FM 13, shortwave 0 (1998)


Radios:

1.215 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

7 (1997)


Televisions:

460,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.jm


Internet hosts:

1,292 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

21 (2000)


Internet users:

1.5 million (2007)


Transportation
Jamaica



Airports:

34 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 11
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 4
under 914 m: 5 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 23
914 to 1,523 m: 2
under 914 m: 21 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 21,552 km
paved: 15,937 km (includes 33 km of expressways)
unpaved: 5,615 km (2005)


Merchant marine:

total: 20
by type: bulk carrier 6, cargo 6, carrier 1, container 4, roll
on/roll off 3
foreign-owned: 17 (Denmark 2, Germany 4, Greece 6, Hong Kong 1,
Latvia 1, Russia 3) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Kingston, Port Esquivel, Port Kaiser, Port Rhoades, Rocky Point


Military
Jamaica



Military branches:

Jamaica Defense Force: Ground Forces, Coast Guard, Air Wing (2007)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service; younger recruits may
be conscripted with parental consent (2001)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 688,480
females age 16-49: 709,548 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 566,477
females age 16-49: 583,075 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 32,000
female: 31,428 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0.6% of GDP (2006 est.)


Transnational Issues
Jamaica



Disputes - international:

none


Illicit drugs:

transshipment point for cocaine from South America to North America
and Europe; illicit cultivation and consumption of cannabis;
government has an active manual cannabis eradication program;
corruption is a major concern; substantial money-laundering
activity; Colombian narcotics traffickers favor Jamaica for illicit
financial transactions



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Jan Mayen

Introduction
Jan Mayen



Background:

This desolate, arctic, mountainous island was named after a Dutch
whaling captain who indisputably discovered it in 1614 (earlier
claims are inconclusive). Visited only occasionally by seal hunters
and trappers over the following centuries, the island came under
Norwegian sovereignty in 1929. The long dormant Haakon VII
Toppen/Beerenberg volcano resumed activity in 1970; the most recent
eruption occurred in 1985. It is the northernmost active volcano on
earth.


Geography
Jan Mayen



Location:

Northern Europe, island between the Greenland Sea and the Norwegian
Sea, northeast of Iceland


Geographic coordinates:

71 00 N, 8 00 W


Map references:

Arctic Region


Area:

total: 377 sq km
land: 377 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly more than twice the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

124.1 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 4 nm
contiguous zone: 10 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 m depth or to the depth of exploitation


Climate:

arctic maritime with frequent storms and persistent fog


Terrain:

volcanic island, partly covered by glaciers


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Norwegian Sea 0 m
highest point: Haakon VII Toppen/Beerenberg 2,277 m


Natural resources:

none


Land use:

arable land: 0%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 100% (2005)


Irrigated land:

0 sq km


Natural hazards:

dominated by the volcano Haakon VII Toppen/Beerenberg; volcanic
activity resumed in 1970; the most recent eruption occurred in 1985


Environment - current issues:

NA


Geography - note:

barren volcanic island with some moss and grass


People
Jan Mayen



Population:

no indigenous inhabitants
note: personnel operate the Long Range Navigation (Loran-C) base and
the weather and coastal services radio station


Government
Jan Mayen



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Jan Mayen


Dependency status:

territory of Norway; since August 1994, administered from Oslo
through the county governor (fylkesmann) of Nordland; however,
authority has been delegated to a station commander of the Norwegian
Defense Communication Service


Legal system:

the laws of Norway, where applicable, apply


Flag description:

the flag of Norway is used


Economy
Jan Mayen



Economy - overview:

Jan Mayen is a volcanic island with no exploitable natural
resources. Economic activity is limited to providing services for
employees of Norway's radio and meteorological stations on the
island.


Communications
Jan Mayen



Radio broadcast stations:

NA; note - there is one radio and meteorological station (1998)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

13 (Jan Mayen and Svalbard) (2000)


Transportation
Jan Mayen



Airports:

1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)


Ports and terminals:

none; offshore anchorage only


Military
Jan Mayen



Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of Norway


Transnational Issues
Jan Mayen



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Japan

Introduction
Japan



Background:

In 1603, a Tokugawa shogunate (military dictatorship) ushered in a
long period of isolation from foreign influence in order to secure
its power. For more than two centuries this policy enabled Japan to
enjoy stability and a flowering of its indigenous culture. Following
the Treaty of Kanagawa with the US in 1854, Japan opened its ports
and began to intensively modernize and industrialize. During the
late 19th and early 20th centuries, Japan became a regional power
that was able to defeat the forces of both China and Russia. It
occupied Korea, Formosa (Taiwan), and southern Sakhalin Island. In
1931-32 Japan occupied Manchuria, and in 1937 it launched a
full-scale invasion of China. Japan attacked US forces in 1941 -
triggering America's entry into World War II - and soon occupied
much of East and Southeast Asia. After its defeat in World War II,
Japan recovered to become an economic power and a staunch ally of
the US. While the emperor retains his throne as a symbol of national
unity, elected politicians - with heavy input from bureaucrats and
business executives - wield actual decisionmaking power. The economy
experienced a major slowdown starting in the 1990s following three
decades of unprecedented growth, but Japan still remains a major
economic power, both in Asia and globally.


Geography
Japan



Location:

Eastern Asia, island chain between the North Pacific Ocean and the
Sea of Japan, east of the Korean Peninsula


Geographic coordinates:

36 00 N, 138 00 E


Map references:

Asia


Area:

total: 377,835 sq km
land: 374,744 sq km
water: 3,091 sq km
note: includes Bonin Islands (Ogasawara-gunto), Daito-shoto,
Minami-jima, Okino-tori-shima, Ryukyu Islands (Nansei-shoto), and
Volcano Islands (Kazan-retto)


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than California


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

29,751 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm; between 3 nm and 12 nm in the international
straits - La Perouse or Soya, Tsugaru, Osumi, and Eastern and
Western Channels of the Korea or Tsushima Strait
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

varies from tropical in south to cool temperate in north


Terrain:

mostly rugged and mountainous


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Hachiro-gata -4 m
highest point: Mount Fuji 3,776 m


Natural resources:

negligible mineral resources, fish
note: with virtually no energy natural resources, Japan is the
world's largest importer of coal and liquefied natural gas as well
as the second largest importer of oil


Land use:

arable land: 11.64%
permanent crops: 0.9%
other: 87.46% (2005)


Irrigated land:

25,920 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

430 cu km (1999)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 88.43 cu km/yr (20%/18%/62%)
per capita: 690 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

many dormant and some active volcanoes; about 1,500 seismic
occurrences (mostly tremors) every year; tsunamis; typhoons


Environment - current issues:

air pollution from power plant emissions results in acid rain;
acidification of lakes and reservoirs degrading water quality and
threatening aquatic life; Japan is one of the largest consumers of
fish and tropical timber, contributing to the depletion of these
resources in Asia and elsewhere


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living
Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate
Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered
Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling


Geography - note:

strategic location in northeast Asia


People
Japan



Population:

127,288,416 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 13.7% (male 8,926,439/female 8,460,629)
15-64 years: 64.7% (male 41,513,061/female 40,894,057)
65 years and over: 21.6% (male 11,643,845/female 15,850,388) (2008
est.)


Median age:

total: 43.8 years
male: 42.1 years
female: 45.7 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

-0.139% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

7.87 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

9.26 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.74 male(s)/female
total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 2.8 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 3 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 2.58 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 82.07 years
male: 78.73 years
female: 85.59 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.22 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

less than 0.1% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

12,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

500 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Japanese (singular and plural)
adjective: Japanese


Ethnic groups:

Japanese 98.5%, Koreans 0.5%, Chinese 0.4%, other 0.6%
note: up to 230,000 Brazilians of Japanese origin migrated to Japan
in the 1990s to work in industries; some have returned to Brazil
(2004)


Religions:

observe both Shinto and Buddhist 84%, other 16% (including Christian
0.7%)


Languages:

Japanese


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99%
male: 99%
female: 99% (2002)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 15 years
male: 15 years
female: 15 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

3.5% of GDP (2005)


Government
Japan



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Japan
local long form: Nihon-koku/Nippon-koku
local short form: Nihon/Nippon


Government type:

constitutional monarchy with a parliamentary government


Capital:

name: Tokyo
geographic coordinates: 35 41 N, 139 45 E
time difference: UTC+9 (14 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

47 prefectures; Aichi, Akita, Aomori, Chiba, Ehime, Fukui, Fukuoka,
Fukushima, Gifu, Gunma, Hiroshima, Hokkaido, Hyogo, Ibaraki,
Ishikawa, Iwate, Kagawa, Kagoshima, Kanagawa, Kochi, Kumamoto,
Kyoto, Mie, Miyagi, Miyazaki, Nagano, Nagasaki, Nara, Niigata, Oita,
Okayama, Okinawa, Osaka, Saga, Saitama, Shiga, Shimane, Shizuoka,
Tochigi, Tokushima, Tokyo, Tottori, Toyama, Wakayama, Yamagata,
Yamaguchi, Yamanashi


Independence:

660 B.C. (traditional founding by Emperor JIMMU)


National holiday:

Birthday of Emperor AKIHITO, 23 December (1933)


Constitution:

3 May 1947


Legal system:

modeled after German civil law system with English-American
influence; judicial review of legislative acts in the Supreme Court;
accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations


Suffrage:

20 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Emperor AKIHITO (since 7 January 1989)
head of government: Prime Minister Taro ASO (since 24 September 2008)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the prime minister
elections: Diet designates prime minister; constitution requires
that prime minister commands parliamentary majority; following
legislative elections, leader of majority party or leader of
majority coalition in House of Representatives usually becomes prime
minister; monarch is hereditary


Legislative branch:

bicameral Diet or Kokkai consists of the House of Councillors or
Sangi-in (242 seats - members elected for six-year terms; half
reelected every three years; 146 members in multi-seat
constituencies and 96 by proportional representation) and the House
of Representatives or Shugi-in (480 seats - members elected for
four-year terms; 300 in single-seat constituencies; 180 members by
proportional representation in 11 regional blocs)
elections: House of Councillors - last held 29 July 2007 (next to be
held in July 2010); House of Representatives - last held 11
September 2005 (next election by September 2009)
election results: House of Councillors - percent of vote by party -
NA; seats by party - DPJ 109, LDP 83, Komeito 20, JCP 7, SDP 5,
others 18
House of Representatives - percent of vote by party (in single-seat
constituencies) - LDP 47.8%, DPJ 36.4%, others 15.8%; seats by party
- LDP 296, DPJ 113, Komeito 31, JCP 9, SDP 7, others 24 (2007)


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (chief justice is appointed by the monarch after
designation by the cabinet; all other justices are appointed by the
cabinet)


Political parties and leaders:

Democratic Party of Japan or DPJ [Ichiro OZAWA]; Japan Communist
Party or JCP [Kazuo SHII]; Komeito [Akihiro OTA]; Liberal Democratic
Party or LDP [Taro ASO]; Social Democratic Party or SDP [Mizuho
FUKUSHIMA]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

other: business groups; trade unions


International organization participation:

ADB, AfDB (nonregional members), APEC, APT, ARF, ASEAN (dialogue
partner), Australia Group, BIS, CE (observer), CERN (observer), CP,
EAS, EBRD, FAO, G-5, G-7, G-8, G-10, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO,
Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAIA, MIGA, NEA, NSG,
OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE (partner), Paris Club, PCA, PIF
(partner), SAARC (observer), SECI (observer), UN, UNCTAD, UNDOF,
UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNITAR, UNRWA, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU,
WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Ichiro FUJISAKI
chancery: 2520 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 238-6700
FAX: [1] (202) 328-2187
consulate(s) general: Anchorage, Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Denver,
Detroit, Agana (Guam), Honolulu, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New
Orleans, New York, Portland (Oregon), San Francisco, Seattle


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador J. Thomas SCHIEFFER
embassy: 1-10-5 Akasaka, Minato-ku, Tokyo 107-8420
mailing address: Unit 9800, Box 300, APO AP 96303-0300
telephone: [81] (03) 3224-5000
FAX: [81] (03) 3505-1862
consulate(s) general: Naha (Okinawa), Osaka-Kobe, Sapporo
consulate(s): Fukuoka, Nagoya


Flag description:

white with a large red disk (representing the sun without rays) in
the center


Economy
Japan



Economy - overview:

Government-industry cooperation, a strong work ethic, mastery of
high technology, and a comparatively small defense allocation (1% of
GDP) helped Japan advance with extraordinary rapidity to the rank of
second most technologically powerful economy in the world after the
US and the third-largest economy in the world after the US and
China, measured on a purchasing power parity (PPP) basis. One
notable characteristic of the economy has been how manufacturers,
suppliers, and distributors have worked together in closely-knit
groups called keiretsu. A second basic feature has been the
guarantee of lifetime employment for a substantial portion of the
urban labor force. Both features have now eroded. Japan's industrial
sector is heavily dependent on imported raw materials and fuels. The
tiny agricultural sector is highly subsidized and protected, with
crop yields among the highest in the world. Usually self sufficient
in rice, Japan must import about 55% of its food on a caloric basis.
Japan maintains one of the world's largest fishing fleets and
accounts for nearly 15% of the global catch. For three decades,
overall real economic growth had been spectacular - a 10% average in
the 1960s, a 5% average in the 1970s, and a 4% average in the 1980s.
Growth slowed markedly in the 1990s, averaging just 1.7%, largely
because of the after effects of overinvestment and an asset price
bubble during the late 1980s that required a protracted period of
time for firms to reduce excess debt, capital, and labor. From 2000
to 2001, government efforts to revive economic growth proved short
lived and were hampered by the slowing of the US, European, and
Asian economies. In 2002-07, growth improved and the lingering fears
of deflation in prices and economic activity lessened, leading the
central bank to raise interest rates to 0.25% in July 2006, up from
the near 0% rate of the six years prior, and to 0.50% in February
2007. In addition, the 10-year privatization of Japan Post, which
has functioned not only as the national postal delivery system but
also, through its banking and insurance facilities as Japan's
largest financial institution, was completed in October 2007,
marking a major milestone in the process of structural reform.
Nevertheless, Japan's huge government debt, which totals 182% of
GDP, and the aging of the population are two major long-run
problems. Some fear that a rise in taxes could endanger the current
economic recovery. Debate also continues on the role of and effects
of reform in restructuring the economy, particularly with respect to
increasing income disparities.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$4.272 trillion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$4.384 trillion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

2% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$33,500 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 1.4%
industry: 26.5%
services: 72% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

66.69 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 4.6%
industry: 27.8%
services: 67.7% (2004)


Unemployment rate:

3.8% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 4.8%
highest 10%: 21.7% (1993)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

38.1 (2002)


Investment (gross fixed):

23.2% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $1.462 trillion
expenditures: $1.567 trillion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 April - 31 March


Public debt:

170% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

0.1% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

0.75% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

1.88% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$4.37 trillion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$4.783 trillion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$9.653 trillion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

rice, sugar beets, vegetables, fruit; pork, poultry, dairy products,
eggs; fish


Industries:

among world's largest and technologically advanced producers of
motor vehicles, electronic equipment, machine tools, steel and
nonferrous metals, ships, chemicals, textiles, processed foods


Industrial production growth rate:

1.3% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

1.082 trillion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

982.5 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 60%
hydro: 8.4%
nuclear: 29.8%
other: 1.8% (2001)


Oil - production:

129,800 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

5.007 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

168,800 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

5.47 million bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

44.12 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

3.729 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

100.3 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

95.62 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

20.9 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$210.5 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$678.1 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

transport equipment, motor vehicles, semiconductors, electrical
machinery, chemicals


Exports - partners:

US 20.4%, China 15.3%, South Korea 7.6%, Taiwan 6.3%, Hong Kong 5.4%
(2007)


Imports:

$573.3 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, fuels, foodstuffs, chemicals, textiles, raw
materials


Imports - partners:

China 20.5%, US 11.6%, Saudi Arabia 5.7%, UAE 5.2%, Australia 5%,
South Korea 4.4%, Indonesia 4.2% (2007)


Economic aid - donor:

ODA, $11.19 billion (2006)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$954.1 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$1.492 trillion (30 June 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$110.8 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$533.1 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$4.737 trillion (2005)


Currency (code):

yen (JPY)


Currency code:

JPY


Exchange rates:

yen (JPY) per US dollar - 117.99 (2007), 116.18 (2006), 110.22
(2005), 108.19 (2004), 115.93 (2003)


Communications
Japan



Telephones - main lines in use:

51.232 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

107.339 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: excellent domestic and international service
domestic: high level of modern technology and excellent service of
every kind
international: country code - 81; numerous submarine cables provide
links throughout Asia, Australia, the Middle East, Europe, and US;
satellite earth stations - 5 Intelsat (4 Pacific Ocean and 1 Indian
Ocean), 1 Intersputnik (Indian Ocean region), and 1 Inmarsat
(Pacific and Indian Ocean regions


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 215 (plus 370 repeaters), FM 89 (plus 485 repeaters), shortwave
21 (2001)


Radios:

120.5 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

211 (plus 7,341 repeaters); in addition, US Forces are served by 3
TV stations and 2 TV cable services (1999)


Televisions:

86.5 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.jp


Internet hosts:

39.909 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

73 (2000)


Internet users:

88.11 million (2007)


Transportation
Japan



Airports:

176 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 145
over 3,047 m: 7
2,438 to 3,047 m: 41
1,524 to 2,437 m: 40
914 to 1,523 m: 28
under 914 m: 29 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 31
914 to 1,523 m: 4
under 914 m: 27 (2007)


Heliports:

14 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 3,939 km; oil 170 km; oil/gas/water 104 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 23,474 km
standard gauge: 3,204 km 1.435-m gauge (3,204 km electrified)
narrow gauge: 77 km 1.372-m gauge (77 km electrified); 20,182 km
1.067-m gauge (13,334 km electrified); 11 km 0.762-m gauge (11 km
electrified) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 1,196,999 km
paved: 949,101 km (includes 7,383 km of expressways)
unpaved: 247,898 km (2006)


Waterways:

1,770 km (seagoing vessels use inland seas) (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 683
by type: bulk carrier 136, cargo 30, carrier 3, chemical tanker 27,
container 11, liquefied gas 59, passenger 12, passenger/cargo 135,
petroleum tanker 156, refrigerated cargo 2, roll on/roll off 51,
vehicle carrier 61
registered in other countries: 3,074 (Australia 1, Bahamas 87,
Belize 8, Bermuda 2, Burma 1, Cambodia 1, Cayman Islands 13, China
2, Cyprus 21, France 1, Honduras 4, Hong Kong 111, Indonesia 6, Isle
of Man 6, Italy 1, South Korea 20, Liberia 116, Malaysia 4, Malta 8,
Marshall Islands 17, Nigeria 1, Norway 29, Panama 2335, Philippines
81, Portugal 15, Saint Kitts and Nevis 3, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines 3, Singapore 131, Thailand 4, UK 4, US 7, Vanuatu 29,
Vietnam 1, unknown 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Chiba, Kawasaki, Kobe, Mizushima, Moji, Nagoya, Osaka, Tokyo,
Tomakomai, Yohohama


Military
Japan



Military branches:

Japanese Ministry of Defense (MOD): Ground Self-Defense Force
(Rikujou Jietai, GSDF), Maritime Self-Defense Force (Kaijou Jietai,
MSDF), Air Self-Defense Force (Koku Jieitai, ASDF) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service (2001)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 27,819,804
females age 16-49: 26,863,794 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 22.963 million
females age 16-49: 22,134,127 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 622,168
female: 590,153 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0.8% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Japan



Disputes - international:

the sovereignty dispute over the islands of Etorofu, Kunashiri, and
Shikotan, and the Habomai group, known in Japan as the "Northern
Territories" and in Russia as the "Southern Kuril Islands," occupied
by the Soviet Union in 1945, now administered by Russia and claimed
by Japan, remains the primary sticking point to signing a peace
treaty formally ending World War II hostilities; Japan and South
Korea claim Liancourt Rocks (Take-shima/Tok-do) occupied by South
Korea since 1954; China and Taiwan dispute both Japan's claims to
the uninhabited islands of the Senkaku-shoto (Diaoyu Tai) and
Japan's unilaterally declared exclusive economic zone in the East
China Sea, the site of intensive hydrocarbon prospecting



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Jersey

Introduction
Jersey



Background:

Jersey and the other Channel Islands represent the last remnants of
the medieval Dukedom of Normandy that held sway in both France and
England. These islands were the only British soil occupied by German
troops in World War II. Jersey is a British crown dependency but is
not part of the UK. However, the UK Government is constitutionally
responsible for its defense and international representation.


Geography
Jersey



Location:

Western Europe, island in the English Channel, northwest of France


Geographic coordinates:

49 15 N, 2 10 W


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 116 sq km
land: 116 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

about two-thirds the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

70 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 3 nm
exclusive fishing zone: 12 nm


Climate:

temperate; mild winters and cool summers


Terrain:

gently rolling plain with low, rugged hills along north coast


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: unnamed location 143 m


Natural resources:

arable land


Land use:

arable land: 0%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 100% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

NA


Environment - current issues:

NA


Geography - note:

largest and southernmost of Channel Islands; about 30% of population
concentrated in Saint Helier


People
Jersey



Population:

91,533 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 16.6% (male 7,851/female 7,298)
15-64 years: 67.5% (male 30,744/female 30,997)
65 years and over: 16% (male 6,499/female 8,144) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 42.3 years
male: 41.6 years
female: 43.1 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.221% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

8.84 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

9.36 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

2.73 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.08 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.08 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.8 male(s)/female
total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 5.01 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 5.36 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 4.63 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 79.65 years
male: 77.15 years
female: 82.35 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.58 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Channel Islander(s)
adjective: Channel Islander


Ethnic groups:

Jersey 51.1%, Britons 34.8%, Irish, French, and other white 6.6%,
Portuguese/Madeiran 6.4%, other 1.1% (2001 census)


Religions:

Anglican, Roman Catholic, Baptist, Congregational New Church,
Methodist, Presbyterian


Languages:

English 94.5% (official), Portuguese 4.6%, other 0.9% (2001 census)


Literacy:

NA


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Jersey



Country name:

conventional long form: Bailiwick of Jersey
conventional short form: Jersey


Dependency status:

British crown dependency


Government type:

parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Saint Helier
geographic coordinates: 49 11 N, 2 06 W
time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

none (British crown dependency); there are no first-order
administrative divisions as defined by the US Government, but there
are 12 parishes including Grouville, Saint Brelade, Saint Clement,
Saint Helier, Saint John, Saint Lawrence, Saint Martin, Saint Mary,
Saint Quen, Saint Peter, Saint Saviour, and Trinity


Independence:

none (British crown dependency)


National holiday:

Liberation Day, 9 May (1945)


Constitution:

unwritten; partly statutes, partly common law and practice


Legal system:

the laws of the UK, where applicable, apply and local statutes;
justice is administered by the Royal Court


Suffrage:

16 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by Lieutenant Governor Andrew RIDGEWAY (since 14 June
2006)
head of government: Chief Minister Frank WALKER (since December
2005); Bailiff Philip Martin BAILHACHE (since February 1995)
cabinet: Cabinet (since December 2005)
elections: ministers of the Cabinet including the chief minister are
elected by the Assembly of States; the monarch is hereditary;
lieutenant governor and bailiff appointed by the monarch


Legislative branch:

unicameral Assembly of the States of Jersey (58 seats; 55 are voting
members, of which 12 are senators elected for six-year terms, 12 are
constables or heads of parishes elected for three-year terms, 29 are
deputies elected for three-year terms, the bailiff and the deputy
bailiff, and 3 non-voting members includes the Dean of Jersey, the
Attorney General, and the Solicitor General appointed by the monarch)
elections: last held 19 October 2005 for senators and 23 November
2005 for deputies (next to be held on 15 October 2008)
election results: percent of vote - NA; seats - independents 55


Judicial branch:

Royal Court (judges elected by an electoral college and the bailiff)


Political parties and leaders:

two declared parties: Centre Party; Jersey Democratic Alliance
note: all senators and deputies elected in 2005 were independents


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Institute of Directors, Jersey branch (provides business support);
Jersey Hospitality Association [Robert JONES] (trade association);
Jersey Rights Association [David ROTHERHAM] (human rights); La
Societe Jersiaise (education and conservation group); Progress
Jersey [Darius J. PEARCE, Daren O'TOOLE, Gino RISOLI] (human
rights); Royal Jersey Agriculture and Horticultural Society or
RJA&HS (development and management of the Jersey breed of cattle);
Save Jersey's Heritage (protects heritage through building
preservation)


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (British crown dependency)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (British crown dependency)


Flag description:

white with a diagonal red cross extending to the corners of the
flag; in the upper quadrant, surmounted by a yellow crown, a red
shield with the three lions of England in yellow


Economy
Jersey



Economy - overview:

Jersey's economy is based on international financial services,
agriculture, and tourism. In 2005 the finance sector accounted for
about 50% of the island's output. Potatoes, cauliflower, tomatoes,
and especially flowers are important export crops, shipped mostly to
the UK. The Jersey breed of dairy cattle is known worldwide and
represents an important export income earner. Milk products go to
the UK and other EU countries. Tourism accounts for one-quarter of
GDP. In recent years, the government has encouraged light industry
to locate in Jersey, with the result that an electronics industry
has developed alongside the traditional manufacturing of knitwear.
All raw material and energy requirements are imported, as well as a
large share of Jersey's food needs. Light taxes and death duties
make the island a popular tax haven. Living standards come close to
those of the UK.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$5.1 billion (2005 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$5.1 billion (2005 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

NA%


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$57,000 (2005 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 1%
industry: 2%
services: 97% (2005)


Labor force:

53,560 (June 2006)


Unemployment rate:

2.2% (2006 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $829 million
expenditures: $851 million (2005)


Fiscal year:

1 April - 31 March


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

3.7% (December 2006)


Agriculture - products:

potatoes, cauliflower, tomatoes; beef, dairy products


Industries:

tourism, banking and finance, dairy, electronics


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - consumption:

630.1 million kWh (2004 est.)


Electricity - imports:

NA kWh; note - electricity supplied by France


Exports:

$NA


Exports - commodities:

light industrial and electrical goods, dairy cattle, foodstuffs,
textiles


Exports - partners:

UK (2006)


Imports:

$NA


Imports - commodities:

machinery and transport equipment, manufactured goods, foodstuffs,
mineral fuels, chemicals


Imports - partners:

UK (2006)


Debt - external:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Jersey pound
note: the British pound is also legal tender


Currency code:

GBP


Exchange rates:

Jersey pounds per US dollar 0.4993 (2007), 0.5418 (2006), 0.5493
(2005), 0.5462 (2004), 0.6125 (2003)
note: the Jersey pound is at par with the British pound


Communications
Jersey



Telephones - main lines in use:

73,900 (2001)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

83,900 (2004)


Telephone system:

general assessment: NA
domestic: NA
international: submarine cable connectivity to Guernsey and UK


Radio broadcast stations:

AM NA, FM 1, shortwave 0 (1998)


Radios:

NA


Television broadcast stations:

2 (1997)


Televisions:

NA


Internet country code:

.je


Internet hosts:

190 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

NA


Internet users:

27,000 (2005)


Transportation
Jersey



Airports:

1 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 358 km (2002)


Ports and terminals:

Gorey, Saint Aubin, Saint Helier


Military
Jersey



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 587
female: 540 (2008 est.)


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of the UK


Transnational Issues
Jersey



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Jordan

Introduction
Jordan



Background:

Following World War I and the dissolution of the Ottoman Empire, the
UK received a mandate to govern much of the Middle East. Britain
separated out a semi-autonomous region of Transjordan from Palestine
in the early 1920s, and the area gained its independence in 1946; it
adopted the name of Jordan in 1950. The country's long-time ruler
was King HUSSEIN (1953-99). A pragmatic leader, he successfully
navigated competing pressures from the major powers (US, USSR, and
UK), various Arab states, Israel, and a large internal Palestinian
population, despite several wars and coup attempts. In 1989 he
reinstituted parliamentary elections and gradual political
liberalization; in 1994 he signed a peace treaty with Israel. King
ABDALLAH II, the son of King HUSSEIN, assumed the throne following
his father's death in February 1999. Since then, he has consolidated
his power and undertaken an aggressive economic reform program.
Jordan acceded to the World Trade Organization in 2000, and began to
participate in the European Free Trade Association in 2001.
Municipal elections were held in July 2007 under a system in which
20% of seats in all municipal councils were reserved by quota for
women. Parliamentary elections were held in November 2007 and saw
independent pro-government candidates win the vast majority of
seats. In November 2007, King Abdallah instructed his new prime
minister to focus on socioeconomic reform, developing a healthcare
and housing network for civilians and military personnel, and
improving the educational system.


Geography
Jordan



Location:

Middle East, northwest of Saudi Arabia


Geographic coordinates:

31 00 N, 36 00 E


Map references:

Middle East


Area:

total: 92,300 sq km
land: 91,971 sq km
water: 329 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Indiana


Land boundaries:

total: 1,635 km
border countries: Iraq 181 km, Israel 238 km, Saudi Arabia 744 km,
Syria 375 km, West Bank 97 km


Coastline:

26 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 3 nm


Climate:

mostly arid desert; rainy season in west (November to April)


Terrain:

mostly desert plateau in east, highland area in west; Great Rift
Valley separates East and West Banks of the Jordan River


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Dead Sea -408 m
highest point: Jabal Ram 1,734 m


Natural resources:

phosphates, potash, shale oil


Land use:

arable land: 3.32%
permanent crops: 1.18%
other: 95.5% (2005)


Irrigated land:

750 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

0.9 cu km (1997)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 1.01 cu km/yr (21%/4%/75%)
per capita: 177 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

droughts; periodic earthquakes


Environment - current issues:

limited natural fresh water resources; deforestation; overgrazing;
soil erosion; desertification


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

strategic location at the head of the Gulf of Aqaba and as the Arab
country that shares the longest border with Israel and the occupied
West Bank


People
Jordan



Population:

6,198,677 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 32.2% (male 1,017,233/female 976,284)
15-64 years: 63.7% (male 2,110,293/female 1,840,531)
65 years and over: 4.1% (male 122,975/female 131,361) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 23.9 years
male: 24.6 years
female: 23.2 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.338% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

20.13 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

2.72 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

5.97 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.15 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.94 male(s)/female
total population: 1.1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 15.57 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 18.62 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 12.34 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 78.71 years
male: 76.19 years
female: 81.39 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.47 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

less than 0.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

600 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 500 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Jordanian(s)
adjective: Jordanian


Ethnic groups:

Arab 98%, Circassian 1%, Armenian 1%


Religions:

Sunni Muslim 92%, Christian 6% (majority Greek Orthodox, but some
Greek and Roman Catholics, Syrian Orthodox, Coptic Orthodox,
Armenian Orthodox, and Protestant denominations), other 2% (several
small Shia Muslim and Druze populations) (2001 est.)


Languages:

Arabic (official), English widely understood among upper and middle
classes


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 89.9%
male: 95.1%
female: 84.7% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 13 years
male: 13 years
female: 13 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

4.9% of GDP (1999)


Government
Jordan



Country name:

conventional long form: Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
conventional short form: Jordan
local long form: Al Mamlakah al Urduniyah al Hashimiyah
local short form: Al Urdun
former: Transjordan


Government type:

constitutional monarchy


Capital:

name: Amman
geographic coordinates: 31 57 N, 35 56 E
time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Thursday in March; ends last
Friday in September


Administrative divisions:

12 governorates (muhafazat, singular - muhafazah); Ajlun, Al
'Aqabah, Al Balqa', Al Karak, Al Mafraq, 'Amman, At Tafilah, Az
Zarqa', Irbid, Jarash, Ma'an, Madaba


Independence:

25 May 1946 (from League of Nations mandate under British
administration)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 25 May (1946)


Constitution:

1 January 1952; amended many times


Legal system:

based on Islamic law and French codes; judicial review of
legislative acts in a specially provided High Tribunal; has not
accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: King ABDALLAH II (since 7 February 1999); Prince
HUSSEIN (born 1994), eldest son of King ABDALLAH II, is considered
to be first in line to inherit the throne
head of government: Prime Minister Nader al-DAHABI (since 25
November 2007)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the prime minister in consultation
with the monarch
elections: the monarch is hereditary; prime minister appointed by
the monarch


Legislative branch:

bicameral National Assembly or Majlis al-'Umma consists of the
Senate, also called the House of Notables or Majlis al-Ayan (55
seats; members appointed by the monarch from designated categories
of public figures to serve four-year terms) and the Chamber of
Deputies, also called the House of Representatives or Majlis
al-Nuwaab (110 seats; members elected by popular vote on the basis
of proportional representation to serve four-year terms; note - six
seats are reserved for women and are allocated by a special
electoral panel if no women are elected)
elections: Chamber of Deputies - last held 20 November 2007 (next to
be held in 2011)
election results: Chamber of Deputies - percent of vote by party -
IAF 5.5 %, independents and other 94.5%; seats by party - IAF 6,
independents and other 104; note - seven women will serve in the
next Assembly - six of whom filled women's quota seats and one was
directly elected


Judicial branch:

Court of Cassation; Supreme Court (court of final appeal)


Political parties and leaders:

al-Ahd Party; Arab Islamic Democratic Movement [Yusuf ABU BAKR];
Arab Land Party [Dr. Ayishah Salih HIJAZAYN]; Arab Socialist Ba'th
Party [Taysir al-HIMSI]; Ba'th Arab Progressive Party [Fu'ad
DABBUR]; Freedom Party; Future Party; Islamic Action Front or IAF
[Zaki Sa'ed BANI IRSHEID]; Islamic Center Party [Marwan al-FAURI];
Jordanian Arab Ansar Party; Jordanian Arab New Dawn Party; Jordanian
Arab Party; Jordanian Citizens' Rights Movement; Jordanian Communist
Party [Munir HAMARINAH]; Jordanian Communist Workers Party;
Jordanian Democratic Left Party [Musa MA'AYTEH]; Jordanian
Democratic Popular Unity Party [Sa'id Dhiyab Ali MUSTAFA]; Jordanian
Generations Party [Muhammad KHALAYLEH]; Jordanian Green Party
[Muhammad BATAYNEH]; Jordanian Labor Party [Dr. Mazin Sulayman
Jiryis HANNA]; Jordanian Peace Party; Jordanian People's Committees
Movement; Jordanian People's Democratic Party (Hashd) [Ahmad YUSUF];
Jordanian Rafah Party; Jordanian Renaissance Party; Mission Party;
Nation Party [Ahmad al-HANANDEH]; National Action Party (Haqq)
[Tariq al-KAYYALI]; National Constitutional Party [Abdul Hadi
MAJALI]; National Popular Democratic Movement [Mahmud al-NUWAYHI];
Progressive Party [Fawwaz al-ZUBI]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Anti-Normalization Committee [Ali Abu SUKKAR, president vice
chairman]; Jordan Bar Association [Hussein Mujalli, chairman];
Jordanian Press Association [Sayf al-SHARIF, president]; Muslim
Brotherhood [Salem AL-FALAHAT, controller general]


International organization participation:

ABEDA, AFESD, AMF, CAEU, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt,
ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAS, MIGA, MINURCAT, MINUSTAH, MONUC,
NAM, OIC, OPCW, OSCE (partner), PCA, UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOCI, UNOMIG, UNRWA, UNWTO, UPU, WCO,
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador ZEID Ra'ad Zeid al-Hussein, Prince
chancery: 3504 International Drive NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 966-2664
FAX: [1] (202) 966-3110


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Robert S. Beecroft
embassy: Abdun, Amman
mailing address: P. O. Box 354, Amman 11118 Jordan; Unit 70200, Box
5, APO AE 09892-0200
telephone: [962] (6) 590-6000
FAX: [962] (6) 592-0121


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of black (top), representing the
Abbassid Caliphate, white, representing the Ummayyad Caliphate, and
green, representing the Fatimid Caliphate; a red isosceles triangle
on the hoist side, representing the Great Arab Revolt of 1916, and
bearing a small white seven-pointed star symbolizing the seven
verses of the opening Sura (Al-Fatiha) of the Holy Koran; the seven
points on the star represent faith in One God, humanity, national
spirit, humility, social justice, virtue, and aspirations; design is
based on the Arab Revolt flag of World War I


Economy
Jordan



Economy - overview:

Jordan is a small Arab country with insufficient supplies of water,
oil, and other natural resources. Poverty, unemployment, and
inflation are fundamental problems, but King ABDALLAH II, since
assuming the throne in 1999, has undertaken some broad economic
reforms in a long-term effort to improve living standards. Since
Jordan's graduation from its most recent IMF program in 2002, Amman
has continued to follow IMF guidelines, practicing careful monetary
policy, making substantial headway with privatization, and opening
the trade regime. Jordan's exports have significantly increased
under the free trade accord with the US and Jordanian Qualifying
Industrial Zones (QIZ), which allow Jordan to export goods duty free
to the US. In 2006, Jordan reduced its debt-to-GDP ratio
significantly. These measures have helped improve productivity and
have made Jordan more attractive for foreign investment. Before the
US-led war in Iraq, Jordan imported most of its oil from Iraq. Since
2003, however, Jordan has been more dependent on oil from other Gulf
nations. The government ended subsidies for petroleum and other
consumer goods in 2008 in an effort to control the budget. The main
challenges facing Jordan are reducing dependence on foreign grants,
reducing the budget deficit, attracting investments, and creating
jobs.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$28.45 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$16.01 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$4,700 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 3.5%
industry: 10.3%
services: 86.2% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

1.563 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 5%
industry: 12.5%
services: 82.5% (2001 est.)


Unemployment rate:

13.5% official rate; unofficial rate is approximately 30% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

14.2% (2002)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.7%
highest 10%: 30.6% (2003)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

38.8 (2003)


Investment (gross fixed):

27.9% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $5.117 billion
expenditures: $6.468 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

72.4% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

5.4% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

7% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

8.68% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$6.765 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$15.38 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$19.53 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

citrus, tomatoes, cucumbers, olives; sheep, poultry, stone fruits,
strawberries, dairy


Industries:

clothing, phosphate mining, fertilizers, pharmaceuticals, petroleum
refining, cement, potash, inorganic chemicals, light manufacturing,
tourism


Industrial production growth rate:

7.7% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

10.87 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

9.852 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

13 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - imports:

472 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 99.4%
hydro: 0.6%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - consumption:

110,700 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - imports:

112,300 bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - proved reserves:

1 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

320 million cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

2.25 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

2.4 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

6.031 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$2.767 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$5.7 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

clothing, pharmaceuticals, potash, phosphates, fertilizers,
vegetables, manufactures;


Exports - partners:

US 22.4%, Iraq 12.9%, India 8.3%, UAE 7.8%, Saudi Arabia 7.5%, Syria
4.9% (2007)


Imports:

$12.02 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

crude oil, textile fabrics, machinery, transport equipment,
manufactured goods


Imports - partners:

Saudi Arabia 21%, China 9.7%, Germany 7.5%, US 4.7%, Egypt 4.4%
(2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

ODA, $752 million (2005 est.)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$7.929 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$8.133 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$18.18 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$29.73 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

Jordanian dinar (JOD)


Currency code:

JOD


Exchange rates:

Jordanian dinars (JOD) per US dollar - 0.709 (2007), 0.709 (2006),
0.709 (2005), 0.709 (2004), 0.709 (2003)


Communications
Jordan



Telephones - main lines in use:

585,500 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

4.771 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: service has improved recently with increased use
of digital switching equipment; microwave radio relay transmission
and coaxial and fiber-optic cable are employed on trunk lines;
growing mobile-cellular usage in both urban and rural areas is
reducing use of fixed-line services; Internet penetration remains
modest and slow-growing
domestic: 1995 telecommunications law opened all non-fixed-line
services to private competition; in 2005, monopoly over fixed-line
services terminated and the entire telecommunications sector was
opened to competition; mobile-cellular usage is increasing rapidly
and teledensity reached 80 per 100 persons in 2007
international: country code - 962; landing point for the Fiber-Optic
Link Around the Globe (FLAG) submarine cable network that provides
links to Asia, Middle East, Europe; satellite earth stations - 33 (3
Intelsat, 1 Arabsat, and 29 land and maritime Inmarsat terminals);
fiber-optic cable to Saudi Arabia and microwave radio relay link
with Egypt and Syria; participant in Medarabtel (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

FM 31 (2007)


Radios:

1.66 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

22 (2007)


Televisions:

500,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.jo


Internet hosts:

21,150 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

5 (2000)


Internet users:

1.127 million (2007)


Transportation
Jordan



Airports:

17 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 15
over 3,047 m: 7
2,438 to 3,047 m: 6
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 2
under 914 m: 2 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 426 km; oil 49 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 505 km
narrow gauge: 505 km 1.050-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 7,694 km
paved: 7,694 km (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 21
by type: cargo 8, container 1, passenger/cargo 7, petroleum tanker
2, roll on/roll off 3
foreign-owned: 13 (UAE 13)
registered in other countries: 24 (Algeria 7, Bahamas 2, Panama 13,
Syria 2) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Al 'Aqabah


Military
Jordan



Military branches:

Jordanian Armed Forces (JAF): Royal Jordanian Land Force, Royal
Jordanian Navy, Royal Jordanian Air Force (Al-Quwwat al-Jawwiya
al-Malakiya al-Urduniya, RJAF), Special Operations Command (Socom);
Public Security Directorate (normally falls under Ministry of
Interior, but comes under JAF in wartime or crisis) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

17 years of age for voluntary military service; conscription at age
18 was suspended in 1999, although all males under age 37 are
required to register; women not subject to conscription, but can
volunteer to serve in non-combat military positions (2004)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,812,551
females age 16-49: 1,559,155 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,546,766
females age 16-49: 1,339,366 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 68,067
female: 65,512 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

8.6% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Jordan



Disputes - international:

approximately two million Iraqis have fled the conflict in Iraq,
with the majority taking refuge in Syria and Jordan; 2004 Agreement
settles border dispute with Syria pending demarcation


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 1,835,704 (Palestinian Refugees
(UNRWA)); 500,000 (Iraq)
IDPs: 160,000 (1967 Arab-Israeli War) (2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Jordan is a destination and transit country for
women and men from South and Southeast Asia trafficked for the
purpose of forced labor; Jordan is also a destination for women from
Eastern Europe and Morocco for prostitution; women from Bangladesh,
Sri Lanka, Indonesia, and the Philippines migrate willingly to work
as domestic servants, but some are subjected to conditions of forced
labor, including unlawful withholding of passports, restrictions on
movement, non-payment of wages, threats, and physical or sexual abuse
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Jordan is on the Tier 2 Watch List
for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to combat
trafficking in persons in 2007, particularly in the area of law
enforcement against trafficking for forced labor; the government
made minimal efforts to investigate or prosecute numerous
allegations related to exploitation of foreign domestic workers;
Jordan failed for a second year to criminally prosecute and punish
those who committed acts of forced labor; Jordan also continues to
lack victim protection services; Jordan has not ratified the 2000 UN
TIP Protocol (2008)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Kazakhstan

Introduction
Kazakhstan



Background:

Native Kazakhs, a mix of Turkic and Mongol nomadic tribes who
migrated into the region in the 13th century, were rarely united as
a single nation. The area was conquered by Russia in the 18th
century, and Kazakhstan became a Soviet Republic in 1936. During the
1950s and 1960s agricultural "Virgin Lands" program, Soviet citizens
were encouraged to help cultivate Kazakhstan's northern pastures.
This influx of immigrants (mostly Russians, but also some other
deported nationalities) skewed the ethnic mixture and enabled
non-Kazakhs to outnumber natives. Independence in 1991 caused many
of these newcomers to emigrate. Kazakhstan's economy is larger than
those of all the other Central Asian states combined, largely due to
the country's vast natural resources and a recent history of
political stability. Current issues include: developing a cohesive
national identity; expanding the development of the country's vast
energy resources and exporting them to world markets; achieving a
sustainable economic growth; diversifying the economy outside the
oil, gas, and mining sectors; enhancing Kazakhstan's
competitiveness; and strengthening relations with neighboring states
and other foreign powers.


Geography
Kazakhstan



Location:

Central Asia, northwest of China; a small portion west of the Ural
River in eastern-most Europe


Geographic coordinates:

48 00 N, 68 00 E


Map references:

Asia


Area:

total: 2,717,300 sq km
land: 2,669,800 sq km
water: 47,500 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly less than four times the size of Texas


Land boundaries:

total: 12,185 km
border countries: China 1,533 km, Kyrgyzstan 1,224 km, Russia 6,846
km, Turkmenistan 379 km, Uzbekistan 2,203 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked); note - Kazakhstan borders the Aral Sea, now split
into two bodies of water (1,070 km), and the Caspian Sea (1,894 km)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

continental, cold winters and hot summers, arid and semiarid


Terrain:

extends from the Volga to the Altai Mountains and from the plains in
western Siberia to oases and desert in Central Asia


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Vpadina Kaundy -132 m
highest point: Khan Tangiri Shyngy (Pik Khan-Tengri) 6,995 m


Natural resources:

major deposits of petroleum, natural gas, coal, iron ore, manganese,
chrome ore, nickel, cobalt, copper, molybdenum, lead, zinc, bauxite,
gold, uranium


Land use:

arable land: 8.28%
permanent crops: 0.05%
other: 91.67% (2005)


Irrigated land:

35,560 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

109.6 cu km (1997)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 35 cu km/yr (2%/17%/82%)
per capita: 2,360 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

earthquakes in the south, mudslides around Almaty


Environment - current issues:

radioactive or toxic chemical sites associated with former defense
industries and test ranges scattered throughout the country pose
health risks for humans and animals; industrial pollution is severe
in some cities; because the two main rivers that flowed into the
Aral Sea have been diverted for irrigation, it is drying up and
leaving behind a harmful layer of chemical pesticides and natural
salts; these substances are then picked up by the wind and blown
into noxious dust storms; pollution in the Caspian Sea; soil
pollution from overuse of agricultural chemicals and salination from
poor infrastructure and wasteful irrigation practices


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol


Geography - note:

landlocked; Russia leases approximately 6,000 sq km of territory
enclosing the Baykonur Cosmodrome; in January 2004, Kazakhstan and
Russia extended the lease to 2050


People
Kazakhstan



Population:

15,340,533 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 22.1% (male 1,734,622/female 1,659,723)
15-64 years: 69.6% (male 5,219,983/female 5,463,468)
65 years and over: 8.2% (male 443,483/female 819,254) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 29.3 years
male: 27.8 years
female: 31.1 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.374% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

16.44 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

9.39 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-3.31 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.96 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.54 male(s)/female
total population: 0.93 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 26.56 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 31.03 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 21.83 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 67.55 years
male: 62.24 years
female: 73.16 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.88 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.2% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

16,500 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 200 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Kazakhstani(s)
adjective: Kazakhstani


Ethnic groups:

Kazakh (Qazaq) 53.4%, Russian 30%, Ukrainian 3.7%, Uzbek 2.5%,
German 2.4%, Tatar 1.7%, Uygur 1.4%, other 4.9% (1999 census)


Religions:

Muslim 47%, Russian Orthodox 44%, Protestant 2%, other 7%


Languages:

Kazakh (Qazaq, state language) 64.4%, Russian (official, used in
everyday business, designated the "language of interethnic
communication") 95% (2001 est.)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99.5%
male: 99.8%
female: 99.3% (1999 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 15 years
male: 15 years
female: 16 years (2007)


Education expenditures:

2.3% of GDP (2005)


Government
Kazakhstan



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Kazakhstan
conventional short form: Kazakhstan
local long form: Qazaqstan Respublikasy
local short form: Qazaqstan
former: Kazakh Soviet Socialist Republic


Government type:

republic; authoritarian presidential rule, with little power outside
the executive branch


Capital:

name: Astana
geographic coordinates: 51 10 N, 71 25 E
time difference: UTC+6 (11 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
note: Kazakhstan is divided into two time zones


Administrative divisions:

14 provinces (oblystar, singular - oblys) and 3 cities* (qalalar,
singular - qala); Almaty Oblysy, Almaty Qalasy*, Aqmola Oblysy
(Astana), Aqtobe Oblysy, Astana Qalasy*, Atyrau Oblysy, Batys
Qazaqstan Oblysy (Oral), Bayqongyr Qalasy*, Mangghystau Oblysy
(Aqtau), Ongtustik Qazaqstan Oblysy (Shymkent), Pavlodar Oblysy,
Qaraghandy Oblysy, Qostanay Oblysy, Qyzylorda Oblysy, Shyghys
Qazaqstan Oblysy (Oskemen), Soltustik Qazaqstan Oblysy
(Petropavlovsk), Zhambyl Oblysy (Taraz)
note: administrative divisions have the same names as their
administrative centers (exceptions have the administrative center
name following in parentheses); in 1995, the Governments of
Kazakhstan and Russia entered into an agreement whereby Russia would
lease for a period of 20 years an area of 6,000 sq km enclosing the
Baykonur space launch facilities and the city of Bayqongyr
(Baykonur, formerly Leninsk); in 2004, a new agreement extended the
lease to 2050


Independence:

16 December 1991 (from Soviet Union)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 16 December (1991)


Constitution:

first post-independence constitution adopted 28 January 1993; new
constitution adopted by national referendum 30 August 1995


Legal system:

based on Islamic law and Roman law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Nursultan A. NAZARBAYEV (chairman of the
Supreme Soviet from 22 February 1990, elected president 1 December
1991)
head of government: Prime Minister Karim MASIMOV (since 10 January
2007); Deputy Prime Ministers Umirzak SHUKEYEV (since 27 August
2007) and Yerbol ORYNBAYEV (since 29 October 2007)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
elections: president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term
(no term limits); election last held 4 December 2005 (next to be
held in 2012); prime minister and first deputy prime minister
appointed by the president
election results: Nursultan A. NAZARBAYEV reelected president;
percent of vote - Nursultan A. NAZARBAYEV 91.1%, Zharmakhan A.
TUYAKBAI 6.6%, Alikhan M. BAIMENOV 1.6%
note: President NAZARBAYEV arranged a referendum in 1995 that
extended his term of office and expanded his presidential powers:
only he can initiate constitutional amendments, appoint and dismiss
the government, dissolve Parliament, call referenda at his
discretion, and appoint administrative heads of regions and cities


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (47 seats; 7 members are
appointed by the president; other members are elected by local
assemblies; to serve six-year terms) and the Mazhilis (107 seats; 9
out of the 107 Mazhilis members are elected from the Assembly of the
People of Kazakhstan, which represents the country's ethnic
minorities; members are popularly elected to serve five-year terms)
elections: Senate - (indirect) last held December 2005; next to be
held in 2011; Mazhilis - last held 18 August 2007 (next to be held
in 2012)
election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - NA; Mazhilis - percent of vote by party - Nur-Otan 88.1%,
NSDP 4.6%, Ak Zhol 3.3%, Auyl 1.6%, Communist People's Party 1.3%,
Patriots Party .8% Ruhaniyat .4%; seats by party - Nur-Otan 98; note
- parties must achieve a threshold of 7% of the electorate to
qualify for seats in the Mazhilis


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (44 members); Constitutional Council (7 members)


Political parties and leaders:

Adilet (Justice) [Maksut NARIKBAYEV, Zeynulla ALSHIMBAYEV, Bakhytbek
AKHMETZHAN, Yerkin ONGARBAYEV, Tolegan SYDYKOV] (formerly Democratic
Party of Kazakhstan); Agrarian and Industrial Union of Workers Block
or AIST (Agrarian Party and Civic Party); Ak Zhol Party (Bright
Path) [Alikhan BAIMENOV]; Auyl (Village) [Gani KALIYEV]; Communist
Party of Kazakhstan or KPK [Serikbolsyn ABDILDIN]; Communist
People's Party of Kazakhstan [Vladislav KOSAREV]; National Social
Democratic Party (NSDP)[Zharmakhan TUYAKBAY]; Nur-Otan [Bakhytzhan
ZHUMAGULOV] (the Agrarian, Asar, and Civic parties merged with
Otan); Patriots' Party [Gani KASYMOV]; Rukhaniyat (Spirituality)
[Altynshash ZHAGANOVA]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Adil-Soz [Tamara KALEYEVA]; Almaty Helsinki Group [Ninel FOKINA];
Confederation of Free Trade Unions [Sergei BELKIN]; For a Just
Kazakhstan [Bolat ABILOV]; For Fair Elections [Yevgeniy ZHOVTIS,
Sabit ZHUSUPOV, Sergey DUVANOV, Ibrash NUSUPBAYEV]; Kazakhstan
International Bureau on Human Rights [Yevgeniy ZHOVTIS, executive
director]; Pan-National Social Democratic Party of Kazakhstan
[Zharmakhan TUYAKBAI]; Pensioners Movement or Pokoleniye [Irina
SAVOSTINA, chairwoman]; Republican Network of International Monitors
[Dos KUSHIM]; Transparency International [Sergei ZLOTNIKOV]


International organization participation:

ADB, CIS, CSTO, EAEC, EAPC, EBRD, ECO, FAO, GCTU, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, MIGA, NAM (observer), NSG, OAS (observer), OIC,
OPCW, OSCE, PFP, SCO, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCL,
WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Yerlan IDRISOV
chancery: 1401 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20036
telephone: [1] (202) 232-5488
FAX: [1] (202) 232-5845
consulate(s): New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Richard E. HOAGLAND
embassy: Ak Bulak 4, Str. 23-22, Building #3, Astana 010010
mailing address: use embassy street address
telephone: [7] (7172) 70-21-00
FAX: [7] (7172) 34-08-90


Flag description:

sky blue background representing the endless sky and a gold sun with
32 rays above a soaring golden steppe eagle in the center; on the
hoist side is a "national ornamentation" in gold


Economy
Kazakhstan



Economy - overview:

Kazakhstan, the largest of the former Soviet republics in territory,
excluding Russia, possesses enormous fossil fuel reserves and
plentiful supplies of other minerals and metals. It also has a large
agricultural sector featuring livestock and grain. Kazakhstan's
industrial sector rests on the extraction and processing of these
natural resources. The breakup of the USSR in December 1991 and the
collapse in demand for Kazakhstan's traditional heavy industry
products resulted in a short-term contraction of the economy, with
the steepest annual decline occurring in 1994. In 1995-97, the pace
of the government program of economic reform and privatization
quickened, resulting in a substantial shifting of assets into the
private sector. Kazakhstan enjoyed double-digit growth in 2000-01 -
8% or more per year in 2002-07 - thanks largely to its booming
energy sector, but also to economic reform, good harvests, and
foreign investment. Inflation, however, jumped to more than 10% in
2007. In the energy sector, the opening of the Caspian Consortium
pipeline in 2001, from western Kazakhstan's Tengiz oilfield to the
Black Sea, substantially raised export capacity. In 2006 Kazakhstan
completed the Atasu-Alashankou portion of an oil pipeline to China
that is planned in future construction to extend from the country's
Caspian coast eastward to the Chinese border. The country has
embarked upon an industrial policy designed to diversify the economy
away from overdependence on the oil sector by developing its
manufacturing potential. The policy aims to reduce the influence of
foreign investment and foreign personnel. The government has engaged
in several disputes with foreign oil companies over the terms of
production agreements; tensions continue. Upward pressure on the
local currency continued in 2007 due to massive oil-related
foreign-exchange inflows. Aided by strong growth and foreign
exchange earnings, Kazakhstan aspires to become a regional financial
center and has created a banking system comparable to those in
Central Europe.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$168.2 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$103.8 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

8.5% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$11,000 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 5.8%
industry: 39.4%
services: 54.8% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

8.229 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 32.2%
industry: 18%
services: 49.8% (2005)


Unemployment rate:

7.3% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

13.8% (2007)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 3.3%
highest 10%: 26.5% (2004 est.)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

30.4 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

30.3% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $23.58 billion
expenditures: $25.33 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

7.7% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

10.8% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

11% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$12.74 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$25.75 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$43.75 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

grain (mostly spring wheat), cotton; livestock


Industries:

oil, coal, iron ore, manganese, chromite, lead, zinc, copper,
titanium, bauxite, gold, silver, phosphates, sulfur, iron and steel;
tractors and other agricultural machinery, electric motors,
construction materials


Industrial production growth rate:

7.2% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

74.93 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

61.81 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

3.528 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

3.665 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 84.3%
hydro: 15.7%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

1.445 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

243,100 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

1.236 million bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - imports:

127,600 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

30 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

27.88 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

30.58 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

8.1 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

10.8 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

2.832 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$7.184 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$48.35 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

oil and oil products 59%, ferrous metals 19%, chemicals 5%,
machinery 3%, grain, wool, meat, coal (2001)


Exports - partners:

China 15.5%, Germany 11.5%, Russia 11.2%, Italy 7.2%, France 6.7%
(2007)


Imports:

$33.21 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, metal products, foodstuffs


Imports - partners:

Russia 35.4%, China 22.1%, Germany 8% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$229.2 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$17.63 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$96.36 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$40.16 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$3.97 billion (September 2007)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$10.52 billion (2005)


Currency (code):

tenge (KZT)


Currency code:

KZT


Exchange rates:

tenge (KZT) per US dollar - 122.55 (2007), 126.09 (2006), 132.88
(2005), 136.04 (2004), 149.58 (2003)


Communications
Kazakhstan



Telephones - main lines in use:

3.237 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

12.588 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: inherited an outdated telecommunications network
from the Soviet era requiring modernization
domestic: intercity by landline and microwave radio relay; number of
fixed-line connections is gradually increasing and fixed-line
teledensity is about 20 per 100 persons; mobile-cellular usage is
increasing rapidly and subscriptions now exceed 80 per 100 persons
international: country code - 7; international traffic with other
former Soviet republics and China carried by landline and microwave
radio relay and with other countries by satellite and by the
Trans-Asia-Europe (TAE) fiber-optic cable; satellite earth stations
- 2 Intelsat (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 60, FM 17, shortwave 9 (1998)


Radios:

6.47 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

12 (plus 9 repeaters) (1998)


Televisions:

3.88 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.kz


Internet hosts:

36,417 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

10 (with their own international channels) (2001)


Internet users:

1.901 million (2006)


Transportation
Kazakhstan



Airports:

97 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 65
over 3,047 m: 9
2,438 to 3,047 m: 27
1,524 to 2,437 m: 17
914 to 1,523 m: 4
under 914 m: 8 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 32
over 3,047 m: 4
2,438 to 3,047 m: 6
1,524 to 2,437 m: 6
914 to 1,523 m: 4
under 914 m: 12 (2007)


Heliports:

5 (2007)


Pipelines:

condensate 658 km; gas 11,082 km; oil 10,376 km; refined products
1,095 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 13,700 km
broad gauge: 13,700 km 1.520-m gauge (3,700 km electrified) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 91,563 km
paved: 83,717 km
unpaved: 7,846 km (2006)


Waterways:

4,000 km (on the Ertis ((Irtysh)) River (80%) and Syr Darya
((Syrdariya)) River) (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 5
by type: petroleum tanker 4, refrigerated cargo 1 (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Aqtau (Shevchenko), Atyrau (Gur'yev), Oskemen (Ust-Kamenogorsk),
Pavlodar, Semey (Semipalatinsk)


Military
Kazakhstan



Military branches:

Ground Forces, Naval Force, Air and Air Defense Forces, Republican
Guard


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for compulsory military service; conscript service
obligation - 2 years; minimum age for volunteers NA (2004)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 4,176,731
females age 16-49: 4,219,636 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,871,205
females age 16-49: 3,551,032 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 145,495
female: 140,149 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0.9% of GDP (Ministry of Defense expenditures) (FY02)


Transnational Issues
Kazakhstan



Disputes - international:

Kyrgyzstan has yet to ratify the 2001 boundary delimitation with
Kazakhstan; field demarcation of the boundaries with Turkmenistan
commenced in 2005, and with Uzbekistan in 2004; demarcation is
scheduled to get underway with Russia in 2007; demarcation with
China was completed in 2002; creation of a seabed boundary with
Turkmenistan in the Caspian Sea remains under discussion;
equidistant seabed treaties have been ratified with Azerbaijan and
Russia in the Caspian Sea, but no resolution has been made on
dividing the water column among any of the littoral states


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 3,700 (Russia); 508 (Afghanistan)
(2007)


Illicit drugs:

significant illicit cultivation of cannabis for CIS markets, as well
as limited cultivation of opium poppy and ephedra (for the drug
ephedrine); limited government eradication of illicit crops; transit
point for Southwest Asian narcotics bound for Russia and the rest of
Europe; significant consumer of opiates



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Kenya

Introduction
Kenya



Background:

Founding president and liberation struggle icon Jomo KENYATTA led
Kenya from independence in 1963 until his death in 1978, when
President Daniel Toroitich arap MOI took power in a constitutional
succession. The country was a de facto one-party state from 1969
until 1982 when the ruling Kenya African National Union (KANU) made
itself the sole legal party in Kenya. MOI acceded to internal and
external pressure for political liberalization in late 1991. The
ethnically fractured opposition failed to dislodge KANU from power
in elections in 1992 and 1997, which were marred by violence and
fraud, but were viewed as having generally reflected the will of the
Kenyan people. President MOI stepped down in December 2002 following
fair and peaceful elections. Mwai KIBAKI, running as the candidate
of the multiethnic, united opposition group, the National Rainbow
Coalition (NARC), defeated KANU candidate Uhuru KENYATTA and assumed
the presidency following a campaign centered on an anticorruption
platform. KIBAKI's NARC coalition splintered in 2005 over the
constitutional review process. Government defectors joined with KANU
to form a new opposition coalition, the Orange Democratic Movement,
which defeated the government's draft constitution in a popular
referendum in November 2005. KIBAKI's reelection in December 2007
brought charges of vote rigging from ODM candidate Raila ODINGA and
unleashed two months of violence in which as many as 1,500 people
died. UN-sponsored talks in late February produced a powersharing
accord bringing ODINGA into the government in the restored position
of prime minister.


Geography
Kenya



Location:

Eastern Africa, bordering the Indian Ocean, between Somalia and
Tanzania


Geographic coordinates:

1 00 N, 38 00 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 582,650 sq km
land: 569,250 sq km
water: 13,400 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly more than twice the size of Nevada


Land boundaries:

total: 3,477 km
border countries: Ethiopia 861 km, Somalia 682 km, Sudan 232 km,
Tanzania 769 km, Uganda 933 km


Coastline:

536 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 m depth or to the depth of exploitation


Climate:

varies from tropical along coast to arid in interior


Terrain:

low plains rise to central highlands bisected by Great Rift Valley;
fertile plateau in west


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
highest point: Mount Kenya 5,199 m


Natural resources:

limestone, soda ash, salt, gemstones, fluorspar, zinc, diatomite,
gypsum, wildlife, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 8.01%
permanent crops: 0.97%
other: 91.02% (2005)


Irrigated land:

1,030 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

30.2 cu km (1990)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 1.58 cu km/yr (30%/6%/64%)
per capita: 46 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

recurring drought; flooding during rainy seasons


Environment - current issues:

water pollution from urban and industrial wastes; degradation of
water quality from increased use of pesticides and fertilizers;
water hyacinth infestation in Lake Victoria; deforestation; soil
erosion; desertification; poaching


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

the Kenyan Highlands comprise one of the most successful
agricultural production regions in Africa; glaciers are found on
Mount Kenya, Africa's second highest peak; unique physiography
supports abundant and varied wildlife of scientific and economic
value


People
Kenya



Population:

37,953,840
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 42.2% (male 8,065,789/female 7,953,077)
15-64 years: 55.2% (male 10,498,468/female 10,434,764)
65 years and over: 2.6% (male 457,886/female 543,854) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 18.6 years
male: 18.5 years
female: 18.8 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.758% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

37.89 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

10.3 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.02 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.84 male(s)/female
total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 56.01 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 58.95 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 53.02 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 56.64 years
male: 56.42 years
female: 56.87 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

4.7 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

6.7% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

1.2 million (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

150,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne disease: malaria
water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Kenyan(s)
adjective: Kenyan


Ethnic groups:

Kikuyu 22%, Luhya 14%, Luo 13%, Kalenjin 12%, Kamba 11%, Kisii 6%,
Meru 6%, other African 15%, non-African (Asian, European, and Arab)
1%


Religions:

Protestant 45%, Roman Catholic 33%, Muslim 10%, indigenous beliefs
10%, other 2%
note: a large majority of Kenyans are Christian, but estimates for
the percentage of the population that adheres to Islam or indigenous
beliefs vary widely


Languages:

English (official), Kiswahili (official), numerous indigenous
languages


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 85.1%
male: 90.6%
female: 79.7% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 10 years
male: 10 years
female: 9 years (2004)


Education expenditures:

6.9% of GDP (2006)


Government
Kenya



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Kenya
conventional short form: Kenya
local long form: Republic of Kenya/Jamhuri ya Kenya
local short form: Kenya
former: British East Africa


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Nairobi
geographic coordinates: 1 17 S, 36 49 E
time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

7 provinces and 1 area*; Central, Coast, Eastern, Nairobi Area*,
North Eastern, Nyanza, Rift Valley, Western


Independence:

12 December 1963 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 12 December (1963)


Constitution:

12 December 1963; amended as a republic 1964; reissued with
amendments 1979, 1982, 1986, 1988, 1991, 1992, 1997, 2001; note - a
new draft constitution was defeated by popular referendum in 2005


Legal system:

based on Kenyan statutory law, Kenyan and English common law, tribal
law, and Islamic law; judicial review in High Court; accepts
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations; constitutional
amendment of 1982 making Kenya a de jure one-party state repealed in
1991


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Mwai KIBAKI (since 30 December 2002); Vice
President Stephene Kalonzo MUSYOKA (since 10 January 2008);
head of government: Prime Minister Raila Amolo ODINGA (since 17
April 2008)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); in addition to receiving the largest
number of votes in absolute terms, the presidential candidate must
also win 25% or more of the vote in at least five of Kenya's seven
provinces and one area to avoid a runoff; election last held 27
December 2007 (next to be held in December 2012); vice president
appointed by the president
election results: President Mwai KIBAKI reelected; percent of vote -
Mwai KIBAKI 46%, Raila ODINGA 44%, Kalonzo MUSYOKA 9%


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly or Bunge (224 seats; 210 members
elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms, 12 so-called
"nominated" members who are appointed by the president but selected
by the parties in proportion to their parliamentary vote totals, 2
ex-officio members)
elections: last held 27 December 2007 (next to be held in December
2012)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
ODM 99, PNU 43, ODM-K 16, KANU 14 other 38; ex-officio 2; seats
appointed by the president - TBD


Judicial branch:

Court of Appeal (chief justice is appointed by the president); High
Court


Political parties and leaders:

Forum for the Restoration of Democracy-Kenya or FORD-Kenya [Musikari
KOMBO]; Forum for the Restoration of Democracy-People or FORD-People
[Simeon NYACHAE]; Kenya African National Union or KANU [Uhuru
KENYATTA]; National Rainbow Coalition-Kenya or NARC-Kenya [Raphael
TUJU]; Orange Democratic Movement or ODM [Raila ODINGA]; Orange
Democratic Movement-Kenya or ODM-K [Kalonzo MUSYOKA]; Party of
National Unity or PNU [Mwai KIBAKI]; Shirikisho Party of Kenya or
SPK [Chirau Ali MWAKWERE]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Council of Islamic Preachers of Kenya or CIPK [Sheikh Idris
MOHAMMED]; Kenya Human Rights Commission [L. Muthoni WANYEKI];
Muslim Human Rights Forum [Ali-Amin KIMATHI]; National Convention
Executive Council or NCEC, a proreform coalition of political
parties and nongovernment organizations [Ndung'u WAINANA];
Protestant National Council of Churches of Kenya or NCCK [Canon
Peter Karanja MWANGI]; Roman Catholic and other Christian churches;
Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims or SUPKEM [Shaykh Abdul Gafur
al-BUSAIDY]
other: labor unions


International organization participation:

ACP, AfDB, AU, C, COMESA, EAC, EADB, FAO, G-15, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IGAD, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO,
Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURSO, MONUC,
NAM, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIL,
UNMIS, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Peter Rateng Oginga OGEGO
chancery: 2249 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 387-6101
FAX: [1] (202) 462-3829
consulate(s) general: Los Angeles


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Michael RANNEBERGER
embassy: US Embassy, United Nations Avenue, Nairobi; P. O. Box 606
Village Market, Nairobi 00621
mailing address: Box 21A, Unit 64100, APO AE 09831
telephone: [254] (20) 363-6000
FAX: [254] (20) 363-410


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of black (top), red, and green; the red
band is edged in white; a large warrior's shield covering crossed
spears is superimposed at the center


Economy
Kenya



Economy - overview:

The regional hub for trade and finance in East Africa, Kenya has
been hampered by corruption and by reliance upon several primary
goods whose prices have remained low. In 1997, the IMF suspended
Kenya's Enhanced Structural Adjustment Program due to the
government's failure to maintain reforms and curb corruption. A
severe drought from 1999 to 2000 compounded Kenya's problems,
causing water and energy rationing and reducing agricultural output.
As a result, GDP contracted by 0.2% in 2000. The IMF, which had
resumed loans in 2000 to help Kenya through the drought, again
halted lending in 2001 when the government failed to institute
several anticorruption measures. Despite the return of strong rains
in 2001, weak commodity prices, endemic corruption, and low
investment limited Kenya's economic growth to 1.2%. Growth lagged at
1.1% in 2002 because of erratic rains, low investor confidence,
meager donor support, and political infighting up to the elections.
In the key December 2002 elections, Daniel Arap MOI's 24-year-old
reign ended, and a new opposition government took on the formidable
economic problems facing the nation. After some early progress in
rooting out corruption and encouraging donor support, the KIBAKI
government was rocked by high-level graft scandals in 2005 and 2006.
In 2006 the World Bank and IMF delayed loans pending action by the
government on corruption. The international financial institutions
and donors have since resumed lending, despite little action on the
government's part to deal with corruption. The scandals have not
weighed down growth, with estimated real GDP growth at more than 6
percent in 2007.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$61.22 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$29.3 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

7% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$1,700 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 23.8%
industry: 16.7%
services: 59.5% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

11.85 million (2005 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 75%
industry and services: 25% (2003 est.)


Unemployment rate:

40% (2001 est.)


Population below poverty line:

50% (2000 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2%
highest 10%: 37.2% (2000)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

44.5 (1997)


Investment (gross fixed):

20.7% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $5.924 billion
expenditures: $6.878 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 July - 30 June


Public debt:

48.7% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

9.7% (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

13.34% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$5.932 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$6.273 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$10.43 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

tea, coffee, corn, wheat, sugarcane, fruit, vegetables; dairy
products, beef, pork, poultry, eggs


Industries:

small-scale consumer goods (plastic, furniture, batteries, textiles,
clothing, soap, cigarettes, flour), agricultural products,
horticulture, oil refining; aluminum, steel, lead; cement,
commercial ship repair, tourism


Industrial production growth rate:

6.8% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

6.264 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

5.124 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

58.3 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

22.5 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 17.7%
hydro: 71%
nuclear: 0%
other: 11.3% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2008 est.)


Oil - consumption:

65,530 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

5,137 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

72,780 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$1.147 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$4.127 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

tea, horticultural products, coffee, petroleum products, fish, cement


Exports - partners:

Uganda 16.9%, UK 9.3%, Tanzania 8.2%, Netherlands 8.2%, US 6.4%,
Pakistan 5.2% (2007)


Imports:

$8.54 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and transportation equipment, petroleum products, motor
vehicles, iron and steel, resins and plastics


Imports - partners:

UAE 11.4%, China 9.9%, India 8.7%, Saudi Arabia 8%, South Africa
6.9%, US 6.2%, Japan 5.9%, UK 4.6% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$768.3 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$3.355 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$6.713 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$1.249 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$47 million (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$11.38 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

Kenyan shilling (KES)


Currency code:

KES


Exchange rates:

Kenyan shillings (KES) per US dollar - 68.309 (2007), 72.101 (2006),
75.554 (2005), 79.174 (2004), 75.936 (2003)


Communications
Kenya



Telephones - main lines in use:

264,800 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

11.44 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: inadequate; fixed-line telephone system is small
and inefficient; trunks are primarily microwave radio relay;
business data commonly transferred by a very small aperture terminal
(VSAT) system
domestic: no recent growth in fixed-line infrastructure and the sole
provider, Telkom Kenya, is slated for privatization; multiple
providers in the mobile-cellular segment of the market fostering a
boom in mobile-cellular telephone usage
international: country code - 254; satellite earth stations - 4
Intelsat


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 24, FM 18, shortwave 6 (2001)


Radios:

3.07 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

8 (2001)


Televisions:

730,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.ke


Internet hosts:

27,376 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

65 (2001)


Internet users:

3 million (2007)


Transportation
Kenya



Airports:

225 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 15
over 3,047 m: 4
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
914 to 1,523 m: 5
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 210
1,524 to 2,437 m: 12
914 to 1,523 m: 113
under 914 m: 85 (2007)


Pipelines:

refined products 900 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 2,778 km
narrow gauge: 2,778 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 63,265 km (interurban roads)
paved: 8,933 km
unpaved: 54,332 km
note: there also are 100,000 km of rural roads and 14,500 km of
urban roads for a national total of 177,765 km (2004)


Waterways:

part of Lake Victoria system is within boundaries of Kenya (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 1
by type: petroleum tanker 1
registered in other countries: 6 (Bahamas 1, Comoros 1, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines 2, Tuvalu 1, unknown 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Mombasa


Military
Kenya



Military branches:

Kenyan Army, Kenyan Navy, Kenyan Air Force (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age (est.) for voluntary service, with a 9-year
obligation (2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 9,044,685
females age 16-49: 8,805,736 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 5,688,259
females age 16-49: 5,396,166 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 411,032
female: 406,794 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

2.8% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Kenya



Disputes - international:

Kenya served as an important mediator in brokering Sudan's
north-south separation in February 2005; Kenya provides shelter to
almost a quarter of a million refugees, including Ugandans who flee
across the border periodically to seek protection from Lord's
Resistance Army (LRA) rebels; Kenya works hard to prevent the clan
and militia fighting in Somalia from spreading across the border,
which has long been open to nomadic pastoralists; the boundary that
separates Kenya's and Sudan's sovereignty is unclear in the "Ilemi
Triangle," which Kenya has administered since colonial times


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 173,702 (Somalia); 73,004 (Sudan);
16,428 (Ethiopia)
IDPs: 250,000-400,000 (2007 post-election violence; KANU attacks on
opposition tribal groups in 1990s) (2007)


Illicit drugs:

widespread harvesting of small plots of marijuana; transit country
for South Asian heroin destined for Europe and North America; Indian
methaqualone also transits on way to South Africa; significant
potential for money-laundering activity given the country's status
as a regional financial center; massive corruption, and relatively
high levels of narcotics-associated activities



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Kiribati

Introduction
Kiribati



Background:

The Gilbert Islands became a British protectorate in 1892 and a
colony in 1915; they were captured by the Japanese in the Pacific
War in 1941. The islands of Makin and Tarawa were the sites of major
US amphibious victories over entrenched Japanese garrisons in 1943.
The Gilbert Islands were granted self-rule by the UK in 1971 and
complete independence in 1979 under the new name of Kiribati. The US
relinquished all claims to the sparsely inhabited Phoenix and Line
Island groups in a 1979 treaty of friendship with Kiribati.


Geography
Kiribati



Location:

Oceania, group of 33 coral atolls in the Pacific Ocean, straddling
the Equator; the capital Tarawa is about half way between Hawaii and
Australia; note - on 1 January 1995, Kiribati proclaimed that all of
its territory lies in the same time zone as its Gilbert Islands
group (UTC +12) even though the Phoenix Islands and the Line Islands
under its jurisdiction lie on the other side of the International
Date Line


Geographic coordinates:

1 25 N, 173 00 E


Map references:

Oceania


Area:

total: 811 sq km
land: 811 sq km
water: 0 sq km
note: includes three island groups - Gilbert Islands, Line Islands,
Phoenix Islands


Area - comparative:

four times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

1,143 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; marine, hot and humid, moderated by trade winds


Terrain:

mostly low-lying coral atolls surrounded by extensive reefs


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: unnamed location on Banaba 81 m


Natural resources:

phosphate (production discontinued in 1979)


Land use:

arable land: 2.74%
permanent crops: 47.95%
other: 49.31% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

typhoons can occur any time, but usually November to March;
occasional tornadoes; low level of some of the islands make them
sensitive to changes in sea level


Environment - current issues:

heavy pollution in lagoon of south Tarawa atoll due to heavy
migration mixed with traditional practices such as lagoon latrines
and open-pit dumping; ground water at risk


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

21 of the 33 islands are inhabited; Banaba (Ocean Island) in
Kiribati is one of the three great phosphate rock islands in the
Pacific Ocean - the others are Makatea in French Polynesia, and Nauru


People
Kiribati



Population:

110,356 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 37.9% (male 21,180/female 20,604)
15-64 years: 58.7% (male 31,993/female 32,797)
65 years and over: 3.4% (male 1,606/female 2,176) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 20.6 years
male: 20.1 years
female: 21.1 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.235% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

30.31 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

7.97 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.74 male(s)/female
total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 44.69 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 49.61 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 39.53 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 62.85 years
male: 59.79 years
female: 66.06 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

4.08 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: I-Kiribati (singular and plural)
adjective: I-Kiribati


Ethnic groups:

Micronesian 98.8%, other 1.2% (2000 census)


Religions:

Roman Catholic 52%, Protestant (Congregational) 40%, other (includes
Seventh-Day Adventist, Muslim, Baha'i, Latter-day Saints, Church of
God) 8% (1999)


Languages:

I-Kiribati, English (official)


Literacy:

NA


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 12 years
male: 12 years
female: 13 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

17.8% of GDP (2002)


Government
Kiribati



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Kiribati
conventional short form: Kiribati
local long form: Republic of Kiribati
local short form: Kiribati
note: pronounced keer-ree-bahss
former: Gilbert Islands


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Tarawa
geographic coordinates: 1 19 N, 172 58 E
time difference: UTC+12 (17 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

3 units; Gilbert Islands, Line Islands, Phoenix Islands; note - in
addition, there are 6 districts (Banaba, Central Gilberts, Line
Islands, Northern Gilberts, Southern Gilberts, Tarawa) and 21 island
councils - one for each of the inhabited islands (Abaiang, Abemama,
Aranuka, Arorae, Banaba, Beru, Butaritari, Kanton, Kiritimati,
Kuria, Maiana, Makin, Marakei, Nikunau, Nonouti, Onotoa, Tabiteuea,
Tabuaeran, Tamana, Tarawa, Teraina)


Independence:

12 July 1979 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 12 July (1979)


Constitution:

12 July 1979


Legal system:

NA


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Anote TONG (since 10 July 2003); Vice
President Teima ONORIO; note - the president is both the chief of
state and head of government
head of government: President Anote TONG (since 10 July 2003); Vice
President Teima ONORIO
cabinet: 12-member cabinet appointed by the president from among the
members of the House of Parliament
elections: the House of Parliament chooses the presidential
candidates from among its members and then those candidates compete
in a general election; president is elected by popular vote for a
four-year term (eligible for two more terms); election last held 17
October 2007 (next to be held in 2011); vice president appointed by
the president
election results: Anote TONG 63.7%, Nabuti MWEMWENIKARAWA 32.9%


Legislative branch:

unicameral House of Parliament or Maneaba Ni Maungatabu (46 seats;
44 members elected by popular vote, 1 ex officio member - the
attorney general, 1 nominated by the Rabi Council of Leaders
(representing Banaba Island); to serve four-year terms)
elections: legislative elections were held in two rounds - the first
round on 22 August 2007 and the second round on 30 August 2007 (next
to be held in 2011)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
NA, other 2 (includes attorney general)


Judicial branch:

Court of Appeal; High Court; 26 Magistrates' courts; judges at all
levels are appointed by the president


Political parties and leaders:

Boutokaan Te Koaua Party or BTK [Taberannang TIMEON]; Maneaban Te
Mauri Party or MTM [Teburoro TITO]; Maurin Kiribati Pati or MKP;
National Progressive Party or NPP [Dr. Harry TONG]
note: there is no tradition of formally organized political parties
in Kiribati; they more closely resemble factions or interest groups
because they have no party headquarters, formal platforms, or party
structures


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

ACP, ADB, C, FAO, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF,
IMO, IOC, ITU, ITUC, OPCW, PIF, Sparteca, SPC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UPU, WHO, WMO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

Kiribati does not have an embassy in the US; there is an honorary
consulate in Honolulu


Diplomatic representation from the US:

the US does not have an embassy in Kiribati; the ambassador to Fiji
is accredited to Kiribati


Flag description:

the upper half is red with a yellow frigate bird flying over a
yellow rising sun, and the lower half is blue with three horizontal
wavy white stripes to represent the ocean


Economy
Kiribati



Economy - overview:

A remote country of 33 scattered coral atolls, Kiribati has few
natural resources. Commercially viable phosphate deposits were
exhausted at the time of independence from the UK in 1979. Copra and
fish now represent the bulk of production and exports. The economy
has fluctuated widely in recent years. Economic development is
constrained by a shortage of skilled workers, weak infrastructure,
and remoteness from international markets. Tourism provides more
than one-fifth of GDP. Private sector initiatives and a financial
sector are in the early stages of development. Foreign financial aid
from UK, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, and China equals more than
10% of GDP. Remittances from seamen on merchant ships abroad account
for more than $5 million each year. Kiribati receives around $15
million annually for the government budget from an Australian trust
fund.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$348 million (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$67 million (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

2% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$3,600 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 8.9%
industry: 24.2%
services: 66.8% (2004)


Labor force:

7,870 economically active, not including subsistence farmers (2001
est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 2.7%
industry: 32%
services: 65.3% (2000)


Unemployment rate:

2% official rate; underemployment 70% (1992 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $55.52 million
expenditures: $59.71 million (FY05)


Fiscal year:

NA


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

0.2% (2007 est.)


Agriculture - products:

copra, taro, breadfruit, sweet potatoes, vegetables; fish


Industries:

fishing, handicrafts


Industrial production growth rate:

0.7% (1991 est.)


Electricity - production:

10 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

9.3 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

232.4 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

259.1 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$21 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$17 million f.o.b. (2004 est.)


Exports - commodities:

copra 62%, coconuts, seaweed, fish


Exports - partners:

US 22.8%, Belgium 21.5%, Japan 14.3%, Samoa 7.8%, Australia 7.5%,
Malaysia 6.7%, Taiwan 5.6%, Denmark 4.6% (2006)


Imports:

$62 million c.i.f. (2004 est.)


Imports - commodities:

foodstuffs, machinery and equipment, miscellaneous manufactured
goods, fuel


Imports - partners:

Australia 33%, Fiji 27.1%, Japan 18.1%, NZ 6.9% (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$27.84 million largely from UK and Japan (2005)


Debt - external:

$10 million (1999 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Australian dollar (AUD)


Currency code:

AUD


Exchange rates:

Australian dollars (AUD) per US dollar - 1.2137 (2007), 1.3285
(2006), 1.3095 (2005), 1.3598 (2004), 1.5419 (2003)


Communications
Kiribati



Telephones - main lines in use:

4,500 (2002)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

700 (2005)


Telephone system:

general assessment: generally good quality national and
international service
domestic: wire line service available on Tarawa and Kiritimati
(Christmas Island); connections to outer islands by HF/VHF
radiotelephone; wireless service available in Tarawa since 1999
international: country code - 686; Kiribati is being linked to the
Pacific Ocean Cooperative Telecommunications Network, which should
improve telephone service; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat
(Pacific Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 1 (may be inactive) (2002)


Radios:

17,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (possibly inactive) (2002)


Televisions:

1,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.ki


Internet hosts:

9 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

2,000 (2007)


Transportation
Kiribati



Airports:

19 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 4
1,524 to 2,437 m: 4 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 15
914 to 1,523 m: 11
under 914 m: 4 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 670 km (2000)


Waterways:

5 km (small network of canals in Line Islands) (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 43
by type: bulk carrier 2, cargo 18, chemical tanker 3, petroleum
tanker 6, refrigerated cargo 14
foreign-owned: 31 (China 15, Hong Kong 4, South Korea 2, Singapore
4, Taiwan 5, Turkey 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Betio


Military
Kiribati



Military branches:

no regular military forces (constitutionally prohibited); Police
Force (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 26,377 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 17,577 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 1,247
female: 1,226 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

NA


Military - note:

Kiribati does not have military forces; defense assistance is
provided by Australia and NZ


Transnational Issues
Kiribati



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Korea, North

Introduction
Korea, North



Background:

An independent kingdom for much of its long history, Korea was
occupied by Japan in 1905 following the Russo-Japanese War. Five
years later, Japan formally annexed the entire peninsula. Following
World War II, Korea was split with the northern half coming under
Soviet-sponsored Communist domination. After failing in the Korean
War (1950-53) to conquer the US-backed Republic of Korea (ROK) in
the southern portion by force, North Korea (DPRK), under its founder
President KIM Il Sung, adopted a policy of ostensible diplomatic and
economic "self-reliance" as a check against excessive Soviet or
Communist Chinese influence. The DPRK demonized the US as the
ultimate threat to its social system through state-funded
propaganda, and molded political, economic, and military policies
around the core ideological objective of eventual unification of
Korea under Pyongyang's control. KIM's son, the current ruler KIM
Jong Il, was officially designated as his father's successor in
1980, assuming a growing political and managerial role until the
elder KIM's death in 1994. After decades of economic mismanagement
and resource misallocation, the DPRK since the mid-1990s has relied
heavily on international aid to feed its population while continuing
to expend resources to maintain an army of approximately 1 million.
North Korea's history of regional military provocations,
proliferation of military-related items, and long-range missile
development - as well as its nuclear, chemical, and biological
weapons programs and massive conventional armed forces - are of
major concern to the international community. In December 2002,
following revelations that the DPRK was pursuing a nuclear weapons
program based on enriched uranium in violation of a 1994 agreement
with the US to freeze and ultimately dismantle its existing
plutonium-based program, North Korea expelled monitors from the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). In January 2003, it
declared its withdrawal from the international Non-Proliferation
Treaty. In mid-2003 Pyongyang announced it had completed the
reprocessing of spent nuclear fuel rods (to extract weapons-grade
plutonium) and was developing a "nuclear deterrent." Beginning in
August 2003, North Korea, China, Japan, Russia, South Korea, and the
US have participated in the Six-Party Talks aimed at resolving the
stalemate over the DPRK's nuclear programs. North Korea pulled out
of the talks in November 2005. It test-fired ballistic missiles in
July 2006 and conducted a nuclear test in October 2006. North Korea
returned to the Six-Party Talks in December 2006 and subsequently
signed two agreements on denuclearization. The 13 February 2007
Initial Actions Agreement shut down the North's nuclear facilities
at Yongbyon in July 2007. In the 3 October 2007 Second Phase Actions
Agreement, Pyongyang pledged to disable those facilities and provide
a correct and complete declaration of its nuclear programs. Under
the supervision of US nuclear experts, North Korean personnel
completed a number of agreed-upon disablement actions at the three
core facilities at the Yongbyon nuclear complex by the end of 2007.
North Korea also began the discharge of spent fuel rods in December
2007, but it did not provide a declaration of its nuclear programs
by the end of the year.


Geography
Korea, North



Location:

Eastern Asia, northern half of the Korean Peninsula bordering the
Korea Bay and the Sea of Japan, between China and South Korea


Geographic coordinates:

40 00 N, 127 00 E


Map references:

Asia


Area:

total: 120,540 sq km
land: 120,410 sq km
water: 130 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Mississippi


Land boundaries:

total: 1,673 km
border countries: China 1,416 km, South Korea 238 km, Russia 19 km


Coastline:

2,495 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
note: military boundary line 50 nm in the Sea of Japan and the
exclusive economic zone limit in the Yellow Sea where all foreign
vessels and aircraft without permission are banned


Climate:

temperate with rainfall concentrated in summer


Terrain:

mostly hills and mountains separated by deep, narrow valleys;
coastal plains wide in west, discontinuous in east


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Sea of Japan 0 m
highest point: Paektu-san 2,744 m


Natural resources:

coal, lead, tungsten, zinc, graphite, magnesite, iron ore, copper,
gold, pyrites, salt, fluorspar, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 22.4%
permanent crops: 1.66%
other: 75.94% (2005)


Irrigated land:

14,600 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

77.1 cu km (1999)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 9.02 cu km/yr (20%/25%/55%)
per capita: 401 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

late spring droughts often followed by severe flooding; occasional
typhoons during the early fall


Environment - current issues:

water pollution; inadequate supplies of potable water; waterborne
disease; deforestation; soil erosion and degradation


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol, Environmental Modification, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution
signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea


Geography - note:

strategic location bordering China, South Korea, and Russia;
mountainous interior is isolated and sparsely populated


People
Korea, North



Population:

23,479,088 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 22.9% (male 2,733,352/female 2,654,186)
15-64 years: 68.2% (male 7,931,484/female 8,083,626)
65 years and over: 8.8% (male 751,401/female 1,325,040) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 32.7 years
male: 31.2 years
female: 34.2 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.732% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

14.61 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

7.29 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.57 male(s)/female
total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 21.86 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 23.46 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 20.18 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 72.2 years
male: 69.45 years
female: 75.08 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Korean(s)
adjective: Korean


Ethnic groups:

racially homogeneous; there is a small Chinese community and a few
ethnic Japanese


Religions:

traditionally Buddhist and Confucianist, some Christian and
syncretic Chondogyo (Religion of the Heavenly Way)
note: autonomous religious activities now almost nonexistent;
government-sponsored religious groups exist to provide illusion of
religious freedom


Languages:

Korean


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99%
male: 99%
female: 99%


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Korea, North



Country name:

conventional long form: Democratic People's Republic of Korea
conventional short form: North Korea
local long form: Choson-minjujuui-inmin-konghwaguk
local short form: Choson
abbreviation: DPRK


Government type:

Communist state one-man dictatorship


Capital:

name: Pyongyang
geographic coordinates: 39 01 N, 125 45 E
time difference: UTC+9 (14 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

9 provinces (do, singular and plural) and 4 municipalities (si,
singular and plural)
provinces: Chagang-do (Chagang), Hamgyong-bukto (North Hamgyong),
Hamgyong-namdo (South Hamgyong), Hwanghae-bukto (North Hwanghae),
Hwanghae-namdo (South Hwanghae), Kangwon-do (Kangwon),
P'yongan-bukto (North P'yongan), P'yongan-namdo (South P'yongan),
Yanggang-do (Yanggang)
municipalities: Kaesong-si (Kaesong), Najin Sonbong-si
(Najin-Sonbong), Namp'o-si (Namp'o), P'yongyang-si (Pyongyang)


Independence:

15 August 1945 (from Japan)


National holiday:

Founding of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK), 9
September (1948)


Constitution:

adopted 1948; completely revised 27 December 1972, revised again in
April 1992, and September 1998


Legal system:

based on Prussian civil law system with Japanese influences and
Communist legal theory; no judicial review of legislative acts; has
not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

17 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: KIM Jong Il (since July 1994); note - on 3 September
2003, rubberstamp Supreme People's Assembly (SPA) reelected KIM Jong
Il chairman of the National Defense Commission, a position accorded
nation's "highest administrative authority"; SPA reelected KIM Yong
Nam president of its Presidium also with responsibility of
representing state and receiving diplomatic credentials
head of government: Premier KIM Yong Il (since 11 April 2007); Vice
Premiers KWAK Pom Gi (since 5 September 1998), JON Sung Hun (since 3
September 2003), RO Tu Chol (since 3 September 2003), THAE Jong Su
(since 16 October 2007)
cabinet: Naegak (cabinet) members, except for Minister of People's
Armed Forces, are appointed by SPA
elections: last held in September 2003 (next to be held in September
2008)
election results: KIM Jong Il and KIM Yong Nam were only nominees
for positions and ran unopposed


Legislative branch:

unicameral Supreme People's Assembly or Ch'oego Inmin Hoeui (687
seats; members elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held 3 August 2003 (next to be held in August 2008)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
NA; ruling party approves a list of candidates who are elected
without opposition; some seats are held by minor parties


Judicial branch:

Central Court (judges are elected by the Supreme People's Assembly)


Political parties and leaders:

major party - Korean Workers' Party or KWP [KIM Jong Il]; minor
parties - Chondoist Chongu Party [RYU Mi Yong] (under KWP control),
Social Democratic Party [KIM Yong Dae] (under KWP control)


Political pressure groups and leaders:

none


International organization participation:

ARF, FAO, G-77, ICAO, ICRM, IFAD, IFRCS, IHO, IMO, IOC, IPU, ISO,
ITSO, ITU, NAM, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WFTU, WHO,
WIPO, WMO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none; North Korea has a Permanent Mission to the UN in New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none; note - Swedish Embassy in Pyongyang represents the US as
consular protecting power


Flag description:

three horizontal bands of blue (top), red (triple width), and blue;
the red band is edged in white; on the hoist side of the red band is
a white disk with a red five-pointed star


Economy
Korea, North



Economy - overview:

North Korea, one of the world's most centrally directed and least
open economies, faces chronic economic problems. Industrial capital
stock is nearly beyond repair as a result of years of
underinvestment and shortages of spare parts. Industrial and power
output have declined in parallel from pre-1990 levels. Due in part
to severe summer flooding followed by dry weather conditions in the
fall of 2006, the nation suffered its 13th year of food shortages
because of on-going systemic problems including a lack of arable
land, collective farming practices, and persistent shortages of
tractors and fuel. During the summer of 2007, severe flooding again
occurred. Large-scale international food aid deliveries have allowed
the people of North Korea to escape widespread starvation since
famine threatened in 1995, but the population continues to suffer
from prolonged malnutrition and poor living conditions. Large-scale
military spending draws off resources needed for investment and
civilian consumption. Since 2002, the government has formalized an
arrangement whereby private "farmers' markets" were allowed to begin
selling a wider range of goods. It also permitted some private
farming on an experimental basis in an effort to boost agricultural
output. In October 2005, the government tried to reverse some of
these policies by forbidding private sales of grains and
reinstituting a centralized food rationing system. By December 2005,
the government terminated most international humanitarian assistance
operations in North Korea (calling instead for developmental
assistance only) and restricted the activities of remaining
international and non-governmental aid organizations such as the
World Food Program. External food aid now comes primarily from China
and South Korea in the form of grants and long-term concessional
loans. During the October 2007 summit, South Korea also agreed to
develop some of North Korea's infrastructure and natural resources
and light industry. Firm political control remains the Communist
government's overriding concern, which will likely inhibit the
loosening of economic regulations.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$40 billion
note: North Korea does not publish any reliable National Income
Accounts data; the datum shown here is derived from purchasing power
parity (PPP) GDP estimates for North Korea that were made by Angus
MADDISON in a study conducted for the OECD; his figure for 1999 was
extrapolated to 2007 using estimated real growth rates for North
Korea's GDP and an inflation factor based on the US GDP deflator;
the result was rounded to the nearest $10 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$25.96 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

-1.1% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$1,700 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 23.3%
industry: 43.1%
services: 33.6% (2002 est.)


Labor force:

20 million
note: estimates vary widely (2004 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 37%
industry and services: 63% (2004 est.)


Unemployment rate:

NA%


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $2.88 billion $NA
expenditures: $2.98 billion $NA


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

NA%


Agriculture - products:

rice, corn, potatoes, soybeans, pulses; cattle, pigs, pork, eggs


Industries:

military products; machine building, electric power, chemicals;
mining (coal, iron ore, limestone, magnesite, graphite, copper,
zinc, lead, and precious metals), metallurgy; textiles, food
processing; tourism


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

21.72 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

18.18 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 29%
hydro: 71%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

141 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

24,000 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2006)


Oil - imports:

10,520 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - proved reserves:

NA bbl


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2007)


Exports:

$1.466 billion f.o.b. (2006)


Exports - commodities:

minerals, metallurgical products, manufactures (including
armaments), textiles, agricultural and fishery products


Exports - partners:

South Korea 32%, China 29%, Thailand 9% (2006)


Imports:

$2.879 billion c.i.f. (2006)


Imports - commodities:

petroleum, coking coal, machinery and equipment, textiles, grain


Imports - partners:

China 27%, South Korea 16%, Thailand 9%, Russia 7% (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$372 million
note: approximately 65,000 metric tons in food aid through the World
Food Program appeals in 2007, plus additional aid from bilateral
donors and non-governmental organizations (2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$12.5 billion (2001 est.)


Currency (code):

North Korean won (KPW)


Currency code:

KPW


Exchange rates:

North Korean won (KPW) per US dollar - 140 (2007), 141 (2006), 170
(December 2004), market: North Korean won per US dollar -
2,500-3,000 (December 2006)


Communications
Korea, North



Telephones - main lines in use:

1.18 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: inadequate system; currently no mobile cellular
telephone services
domestic: fiber-optic links installed between cities; telephone
directories unavailable; mobile cellular service, initiated in 2002,
terminated in 2004; in January 2008 Orascom Telecom, an Egyptian
company, announced that it had been granted a commercial license to
provide mobile telephone services in North Korea
international: country code - 850; satellite earth stations - 2 (1
Intelsat - Indian Ocean, 1 Russian - Indian Ocean region); other
international connections through Moscow and Beijing (2008)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 17 (including 11 stations of Korean Central Broadcasting Station;
North Korea has a "national intercom" cable radio station wired
throughout the country that is a significant source of information
for the average North Korean citizen; it is wired into most
residences and workplaces and carries news and commentary), FM 14,
shortwave 14 (2006)


Radios:

3.36 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

4 (includes Korean Central Television, Mansudae Television, Korean
Educational and Cultural Network, and Kaesong Television targeting
South Korea) (2003)


Televisions:

1.2 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.kp


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

NA


Transportation
Korea, North



Airports:

77 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 36
over 3,047 m: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 22
1,524 to 2,437 m: 8
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 3 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 41
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 19
914 to 1,523 m: 13
under 914 m: 7 (2007)


Heliports:

23 (2007)


Pipelines:

oil 154 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 5,235 km
standard gauge: 5,235 km 1.435-m gauge (3,500 km electrified) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 25,554 km
paved: 724 km
unpaved: 24,830 km (2006)


Waterways:

2,250 km (most navigable only by small craft) (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 167
by type: bulk carrier 11, cargo 121, carrier 1, chemical tanker 4,
container 3, passenger/cargo 3, petroleum tanker 19, refrigerated
cargo 4, roll on/roll off 1
foreign-owned: 19 (Egypt 1, Greece 1, Lebanon 1, Lithuania 1,
Romania 4, Syria 1, UAE 8, Yemen 2)
registered in other countries: 2 (Mongolia 1, Panama 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Ch'ongjin, Haeju, Hungnam (Hamhung), Kimch'aek, Kosong, Najin,
Namp'o, Sinuiju, Songnim, Sonbong (formerly Unggi), Ungsang, Wonsan


Military
Korea, North



Military branches:

North Korean People's Army: Ground Forces, Navy, Air Force; civil
security forces (2005)


Military service age and obligation:

17 years of age (2004)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 6,225,747
females age 16-49: 6,188,270 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 5,141,240
females age 16-49: 5,139,447 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 199,628
female: 192,388 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

NA


Transnational Issues
Korea, North



Disputes - international:

risking arrest, imprisonment, and deportation, tens of thousands of
North Koreans cross into China to escape famine, economic privation,
and political oppression; North Korea and China dispute the
sovereignty of certain islands in Yalu and Tumen rivers; Military
Demarcation Line within the 4-km wide Demilitarized Zone has
separated North from South Korea since 1953; periodic incidents in
the Yellow Sea with South Korea which claims the Northern Limiting
Line as a maritime boundary; North Korea supports South Korea in
rejecting Japan's claim to Liancourt Rocks (Tok-do/Take-shima)


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

IDPs: undetermined (flooding in mid-2007 and famine during
mid-1990s) (2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: North Korea is a source country for men, women,
and children trafficked for the purposes of forced labor and
commercial sexual exploitation; the most common form of trafficking
involves North Korean women and girls who cross the border into
China voluntarily; additionally, North Korean women and girls are
lured out of North Korea to escape poor social and economic
conditions by the promise of food, jobs, and freedom, only to be
forced into prostitution, marriage, or exploitative labor
arrangements once in China
tier rating: Tier 3 - North Korea does not fully comply with minimum
standards for the elimination of trafficking and is not making
significant efforts to do so; the government does not acknowledge
the existence of human rights abuses in the country or recognize
trafficking, either within the country or transnationally; North
Korea has not ratified the 2000 UN TIP Protocol (2008)


Illicit drugs:

for years, from the 1970s into the 2000s, citizens of the Democratic
People's Republic of (North) Korea (DPRK), many of them diplomatic
employees of the government, were apprehended abroad while
trafficking in narcotics, including two in Turkey in December 2004;
police investigations in Taiwan and Japan in recent years have
linked North Korea to large illicit shipments of heroin and
methamphetamine, including an attempt by the North Korean merchant
ship Pong Su to deliver 150 kg of heroin to Australia in April 2003



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Korea, South

Introduction
Korea, South



Background:

An independent Korean state or collection of states has existed
almost continuously for several millennia. Between its initial
unification in the 7th century - from three predecessor Korean
states - until the 20th century, Korea existed as a single
independent country. In 1905, following the Russo-Japanese War,
Korea became a protectorate of imperial Japan, and in 1910 it was
annexed as a colony. Korea regained its independence following
Japan's surrender to the United States in 1945. After World War II,
a Republic of Korea (ROK) was set up in the southern half of the
Korean Peninsula while a Communist-style government was installed in
the north (the DPRK). During the Korean War (1950-53), US troops and
UN forces fought alongside soldiers from the ROK to defend South
Korea from DPRK attacks supported by China and the Soviet Union. An
armistice was signed in 1953, splitting the peninsula along a
demilitarized zone at about the 38th parallel. Thereafter, South
Korea achieved rapid economic growth with per capita income rising
to roughly 14 times the level of North Korea. In 1993, KIM Young-sam
became South Korea's first civilian president following 32 years of
military rule. South Korea today is a fully functioning modern
democracy. In June 2000, a historic first North-South summit took
place between the South's President KIM Dae-jung and the North's
leader KIM Jong Il. In October 2007, a second North-South summit
took place between the South's President ROH Moo-hyun and the North
Korean leader.


Geography
Korea, South



Location:

Eastern Asia, southern half of the Korean Peninsula bordering the
Sea of Japan and the Yellow Sea


Geographic coordinates:

37 00 N, 127 30 E


Map references:

Asia


Area:

total: 98,480 sq km
land: 98,190 sq km
water: 290 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than Indiana


Land boundaries:

total: 238 km
border countries: North Korea 238 km


Coastline:

2,413 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm; between 3 nm and 12 nm in the Korea Strait
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: not specified


Climate:

temperate, with rainfall heavier in summer than winter


Terrain:

mostly hills and mountains; wide coastal plains in west and south


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Sea of Japan 0 m
highest point: Halla-san 1,950 m


Natural resources:

coal, tungsten, graphite, molybdenum, lead, hydropower potential


Land use:

arable land: 16.58%
permanent crops: 2.01%
other: 81.41% (2005)


Irrigated land:

8,780 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

69.7 cu km (1999)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 18.59 cu km/yr (36%/16%/48%)
per capita: 389 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

occasional typhoons bring high winds and floods; low-level seismic
activity common in southwest


Environment - current issues:

air pollution in large cities; acid rain; water pollution from the
discharge of sewage and industrial effluents; drift net fishing


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living
Resources, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83,
Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

strategic location on Korea Strait


People
Korea, South



Population:

48,379,392 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 17.4% (male 4,431,315/female 4,004,810)
15-64 years: 72% (male 17,760,975/female 17,095,436)
65 years and over: 10.5% (male 2,030,931/female 3,055,925) (2008
est.)


Median age:

total: 36.7 years
male: 35.5 years
female: 37.9 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.269% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

9.09 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

5.73 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.08 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.11 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.66 male(s)/female
total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 4.29 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 4.52 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 4.04 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 78.64 years
male: 75.34 years
female: 82.17 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.2 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

less than 0.1% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

8,300 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 200 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Korean(s)
adjective: Korean


Ethnic groups:

homogeneous (except for about 20,000 Chinese)


Religions:

Christian 26.3% (Protestant 19.7%, Roman Catholic 6.6%), Buddhist
23.2%, other or unknown 1.3%, none 49.3% (1995 census)


Languages:

Korean, English widely taught in junior high and high school


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 97.9%
male: 99.2%
female: 96.6% (2002)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 17 years
male: 18 years
female: 15 years (2007)


Education expenditures:

4.6% of GDP (2004)


Government
Korea, South



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Korea
conventional short form: South Korea
local long form: Taehan-min'guk
local short form: Han'guk
abbreviation: ROK


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Seoul
geographic coordinates: 37 33 N, 126 59 E
time difference: UTC+9 (14 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

9 provinces (do, singular and plural) and 7 metropolitan cities
(gwangyoksi, singular and plural)
provinces: Cheju-do, Cholla-bukto (North Cholla), Cholla-namdo
(South Cholla), Ch'ungch'ong-bukto (North Ch'ungch'ong),
Ch'ungch'ong-namdo (South Ch'ungch'ong), Kangwon-do, Kyonggi-do,
Kyongsang-bukto (North Kyongsang), Kyongsang-namdo (South Kyongsang)
metropolitan cities: Inch'on-gwangyoksi (Inch'on),
Kwangju-gwangyoksi (Kwangju), Pusan-gwangyoksi (Pusan),
Soul-t'ukpyolsi (Seoul), Taegu-gwangyoksi (Taegu), Taejon-gwangyoksi
(Taejon), Ulsan-gwangyoksi (Ulsan)


Independence:

15 August 1945 (from Japan)


National holiday:

Liberation Day, 15 August (1945)


Constitution:

17 July 1948; note - amended or rewritten nine times; current
constitution approved on 29 October 1987


Legal system:

combines elements of continental European civil law systems,
Anglo-American law, and Chinese classical thought; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

19 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President LEE Myung-bak (since 25 February 2008)
head of government: Prime Minister HAN Seung-soo (since 29 February
2008)
cabinet: State Council appointed by the president on the prime
minister's recommendation
elections: president elected by popular vote for a single five-year
term; election last held 19 December 2007 (next to be held on in
December 2012); prime minister appointed by president with consent
of National Assembly; deputy prime ministers appointed by president
on prime minister's recommendation
election results: ROH Moo-hyun elected president on 19 December
2002; percent of vote - ROH Moo-hyun (MDP) 48.9%; LEE Hoi-chang
(GNP) 46.6%; others 4.5%; LEE Myung-bak elected president on 19
December 2007; percent of vote - LEE Myung-bak (GNP) 48.7%; CHUNG
Dong-young (UNDP) 26.1%); LEE Hoi-chang (independent) 15.1; others
10.1%


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly or Kukhoe (299 seats; 243 members
elected in single-seat constituencies, 56 elected by proportional
representation; to serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 9 April 2008 (next to be held in April 2012)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
GNP 153, UDP 81, LFP 18, Pro-Park Alliance 14, DLP 5, CKP 3,
independents 25


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (justices appointed by the president with consent of
National Assembly); Constitutional Court (justices appointed by the
president based partly on nominations by National Assembly and Chief
Justice of the court)


Political parties and leaders:

Creative Korea Party or CKP [MOON Kook-hyun]; Democratic Labor Party
or DLP [CHUN Young-se]; Grand National Party or GNP [PARK Hee-tae];
Liberty Forward Party or LFP [LEE Hoi-chang]; Democratic Party or DP
[CHUNG Sye-kyun] (formerly the United Democratic Party or UDP)


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Federation of Korean Industries; Federation of Korean Trade Unions;
Korean Confederation of Trade Unions; Korean National Council of
Churches; Korean Traders Association; Korean Veterans' Association;
National Council of Labor Unions; National Democratic Alliance of
Korea; National Federation of Farmers' Associations; National
Federation of Student Associations


International organization participation:

ADB, AfDB (nonregional members), APEC, APT, ARF, ASEAN (dialogue
partner), Australia Group, BIS, CP, EAS, EBRD, FAO, IADB, IAEA,
IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO,
IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAIA,
MIGA, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE (partner), PCA, PIF
(partner), SAARC (observer), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO,
UNIFIL, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNMOGIP, UNOMIG, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU,
WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador LEE Tae-sik
chancery: 2450 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 939-5600
FAX: [1] (202) 387-0205
consulate(s) general: Agana (Guam), Atlanta, Boston, Chicago,
Honolulu, Houston, Los Angeles, New York, San Francisco, Seattle


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Kathleen STEPHENS
embassy: 32 Sejong-no, Jongno-gu, Seoul 110-710
mailing address: US Embassy Seoul, APO AP 96205-5550
telephone: [82] (2) 397-4114
FAX: [82] (2) 738-8845


Flag description:

white with a red (top) and blue yin-yang symbol in the center; there
is a different black trigram from the ancient I Ching (Book of
Changes) in each corner of the white field


Economy
Korea, South



Economy - overview:

Since the 1960s, South Korea has achieved an incredible record of
growth and integration into the high-tech modern world economy. Four
decades ago, GDP per capita was comparable with levels in the poorer
countries of Africa and Asia. In 2004, South Korea joined the
trillion dollar club of world economies. Today its GDP per capita is
roughly the same as that of Greece and Spain. This success was
achieved by a system of close government/business ties including
directed credit, import restrictions, sponsorship of specific
industries, and a strong labor effort. The government promoted the
import of raw materials and technology at the expense of consumer
goods and encouraged savings and investment over consumption. The
Asian financial crisis of 1997-98 exposed longstanding weaknesses in
South Korea's development model including high debt/equity ratios,
massive foreign borrowing, and an undisciplined financial sector.
GDP plunged by 6.9% in 1998, then recovered by 9.5% in 1999 and 8.5%
in 2000. Growth fell back to 3.3% in 2001 because of the slowing
global economy, falling exports, and the perception that much-needed
corporate and financial reforms had stalled. Led by consumer
spending and exports, growth in 2002 was an impressive 7%, despite
anemic global growth. Between 2003 and 2007, growth moderated to
about 4-5% annually. A downturn in consumer spending was offset by
rapid export growth. Moderate inflation, low unemployment, and an
export surplus in 2007 characterize this solid economy, but
inflation and unemployment are increasing in the face of rising oil
prices.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$1.206 trillion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$957.1 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

5% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$25,000 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 3%
industry: 39.4%
services: 57.6% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

24.22 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 7.5%
industry: 17.3%
services: 75.2% (2007)


Unemployment rate:

3.3% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

15% (2003 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.9%
highest 10%: 25% (2005 est.)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

35.1 (2006)


Investment (gross fixed):

28.8% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $262.2 billion
expenditures: $225.8 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

28.2% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.5% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

3.25% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

6.55% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$92.59 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$541.7 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$1.061 trillion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

rice, root crops, barley, vegetables, fruit; cattle, pigs, chickens,
milk, eggs; fish


Industries:

electronics, telecommunications, automobile production, chemicals,
shipbuilding, steel


Industrial production growth rate:

5.5% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

412.7 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

368.6 billion kWh (2007)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 62.4%
hydro: 0.8%
nuclear: 36.6%
other: 0.2% (2001)


Oil - production:

20,970 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

2.214 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

NA bbl/day


Oil - imports:

2.41 million bbl/day (2006)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

390 million cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

34.83 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

33.38 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

$5.954 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$379 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

semiconductors, wireless telecommunications equipment, motor
vehicles, computers, steel, ships, petrochemicals


Exports - partners:

China 22.1%, US 12.4%, Japan 7.1%, Hong Kong 5% (2007)


Imports:

$349.6 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery, electronics and electronic equipment, oil, steel,
transport equipment, organic chemicals, plastics


Imports - partners:

China 17.7%, Japan 15.8%, US 10.5%, Saudi Arabia 5.9% (2007)


Economic aid - donor:

ODA, $455.3 million (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$68.07 million (2004)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$262.2 billion (31 December 2007)


Debt - external:

$220.1 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$119.6 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$82.1 billion (2006)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$1.051 trillion (2007)


Currency (code):

South Korean won (KRW)


Currency code:

KRW


Exchange rates:

South Korean won (KRW) per US dollar - 929.2 (2007), 954.8 (2006),
1,024.1 (2005), 1,145.3 (2004), 1,191.6 (2003)


Communications
Korea, South



Telephones - main lines in use:

23.905 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

43.5 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: excellent domestic and international services
featuring rapid incorporation of new technologies
domestic: combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular telephone
subscribership exceeds 140 per 100 persons; rapid assimilation of a
full range of telecommunications technologies leading to a boom in
e-commerce
international: country code - 82; numerous submarine cables provide
links throughout Asia, Australia, the Middle East, Europe, and US;
satellite earth stations - 6 (3 Intelsat - 1 Pacific Ocean and 2
Indian Ocean; 3 Inmarsat - 1 Pacific Ocean and 2 Indian Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 61, FM 150, shortwave 2 (2005)


Radios:

47.5 million (2000)


Television broadcast stations:

43 (plus 59 cable operators and 190 relay cable operators) (2005)


Televisions:

15.9 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.kr


Internet hosts:

333,823 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

11 (2000)


Internet users:

35.59 million (2007)


Transportation
Korea, South



Airports:

105 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 68
over 3,047 m: 3
2,438 to 3,047 m: 21
1,524 to 2,437 m: 14
914 to 1,523 m: 11
under 914 m: 19 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 37
914 to 1,523 m: 3
under 914 m: 34 (2007)


Heliports:

536 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 1,482 km; refined products 827 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 3,472 km
standard gauge: 3,472 km 1.435-m gauge (1,342 km electrified) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 102,062 km
paved: 90,417 km (includes 3,103 km of expressways)
unpaved: 11,645 km (2006)


Waterways:

1,608 km (most navigable only by small craft) (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 812
by type: bulk carrier 212, cargo 226, carrier 2, chemical tanker
133, container 80, liquefied gas 33, passenger 5, passenger/cargo
26, petroleum tanker 61, refrigerated cargo 16, roll on/roll off 9,
specialized tanker 4, vehicle carrier 5
foreign-owned: 31 (China 1, Japan 20, Norway 2, UK 1, US 7)
registered in other countries: 363 (Belize 1, Cambodia 22, China 1,
Cyprus 1, Honduras 6, Hong Kong 3, Kiribati 2, Liberia 3, Malta 2,
Marshall Islands 10, Mongolia 1, Netherlands 1, Panama 303, Russia
1, Singapore 3, Tuvalu 1, unknown 2) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Inch'on, P'ohang, Pusan, Ulsan


Military
Korea, South



Military branches:

Republic of Korea Army, Navy (includes Marine Corps), Air Force
(2008)


Military service age and obligation:

20-30 years of age for compulsory military service, with middle
school education required; conscript service obligation - 24-28
months, depending on the military branch involved (to be reduced to
18 months beginning 2016); 18-26 years of age for voluntary military
service; women, in service since 1950, admitted to 7 service
branches, including infantry, but excluded from artillery, armor,
anti-air, and chaplaincy corps; some 4,000 women serve as
commissioned and noncommissioned officers, approx. 2.3% of all
officers (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 13,691,809
females age 16-49: 13,029,859 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 11,282,699
females age 16-49: 10,683,668 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 371,108
female: 325,408 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

2.7% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Korea, South



Disputes - international:

Military Demarcation Line within the 4-km wide Demilitarized Zone
has separated North from South Korea since 1953; periodic incidents
with North Korea in the Yellow Sea over the Northern Limiting Line,
which South Korea claims as a maritime boundary; South Korea and
Japan claim Liancourt Rocks (Tok-do/Take-shima), occupied by South
Korea since 1954



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Kosovo

Introduction
Kosovo



Background:

Serbs migrated to the territories of modern Kosovo in the 7th
century but did not fully incorporate them into the Serbian realm
until the early 13th century. The Serbian defeat at the Battle of
Kosovo in 1389 led to five centuries of Ottoman rule during which
large numbers of Turks and Albanians moved to Kosovo. By the end of
the 19th century, Albanians replaced the Serbs as the dominant
ethnic group in Kosovo. Serbia reacquired control over Kosovo from
the Ottoman Empire during the First Balkan War (1912). After World
War II (1945), the government of the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia led by Josip TITO reorganized Kosovo as an autonomous
province within the constituent republic of Serbia. Over the next
four decades, Kosovo Albanians lobbied for greater autonomy, and
Kosovo was granted the status almost equal to that of a republic in
the 1974 Yugoslav Constitution. Despite the legislative concessions,
Albanian nationalism increased in the 1980s leading to nationalist
riots and calls for Kosovo's independence. Serbs in Kosovo
complained of mistreatment and Serb nationalist leaders, such as
Slobodan MILOSEVIC, exploited those charges to win support among
Serbian voters many of whom viewed Kosovo as their cultural
heartland. Under MILOSEVIC's leadership, Serbia instituted a new
constitution in 1989 that drastically curtailed Kosovo's autonomy.
Kosovo Albanian leaders responded in 1991 by organizing a referendum
that declared Kosovo independent from Serbia. The MILOSEVIC regime
carried out repressive measures against the Albanians in the early
1990s as the unofficial government of Kosovo, led by Ibrahim RUGOVA,
tried to use passive resistance to gain international assistance and
recognition of its demands for independence. In 1995, Albanians
dissatisfied with RUGOVA's nonviolent strategy created the Kosovo
Liberation Army and launched an insurgency. In 1998, MILOSEVIC
authorized a counterinsurgency campaign that resulted in massacres
and massive expulsions of ethnic Albanians by Serbian military,
police, and paramilitary forces. The international community tried
to resolve the conflict peacefully, but MILOSEVIC rejected the
proposed international settlement - the Rambouillet Accords -
leading to a three-month NATO bombing of Serbia beginning in March
1999, which forced Serbia to withdraw its military and police forces
from Kosovo in June 1999. UN Security Council Resolution 1244 (1999)
placed Kosovo under a transitional administration, the UN Interim
Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK), pending a determination of
Kosovo's future status. Under the resolution, Serbia's territorial
integrity was protected, but it was UNMIK that assumed
responsibility for governing Kosovo. In 2001, UNMIK promulgated a
Constitutional Framework, which established Kosovo's Provisional
Institutions of Self-Government (PISG). In succeeding years UNMIK
increasingly devolved responsibilities to the PISG. A UN-led process
began in late 2005 to determine Kosovo's future status. Negotiations
held intermittently between 2006 and 2007 on issues related to
decentralization, religious heritage, and minority rights failed to
yield a resolution between Serbia's willingness to grant a high
degree of autonomy and the Albanians' call for full independence for
Kosovo. On 17 February 2008, the Kosovo Assembly declared its
independence from Serbia.


Geography
Kosovo



Location:

Southeast Europe, between Serbia and Macedonia


Geographic coordinates:

42 35 N, 21 00 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 10,887 sq km
land: 10,887 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than Delaware


Land boundaries:

total: 702 km
border countries: Albania 112 km, Macedonia 159 km, Montenegro 79
km, Serbia 352 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

influenced by continental air masses resulting in relatively cold
winters with heavy snowfall and hot, dry summers and autumns;
Mediterranean and alpine influences create regional variation;
maximum rainfall between October and December


Terrain:

flat fluvial basin with an elevation of 400-700 m above sea level
surrounded by several high mountain ranges with elevations of 2,000
to 2,500 m


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Drini i Bardhe/Beli Drim 297 m (located on the border
with Albania)
highest point: Gjeravica/Deravica 2,565 m


Natural resources:

nickel, lead, zinc, magnesium, lignite, kaolin, chrome, bauxite


People
Kosovo



Population:

2,126,708 (2007 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Kosovar (Albanian), Kosovac (Serbian)
adjective: Kosovar (Albanian), Kosovski (Serbian)
note: Kosovan, a neutral term, is sometimes also used as a noun or
adjective


Ethnic groups:

Albanians 88%, Serbs 7%, other 5% (Bosniak, Gorani, Roma, Turk,
Ashkali, Egyptian)


Religions:

Muslim, Serbian Orthodox, Roman Catholic


Languages:

Albanian (official), Serbian (official), Bosnian, Turkish, Roma


Government
Kosovo



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Kosovo
conventional short form: Kosovo
local long form: Republika e Kosoves (Republika Kosova)
local short form: Kosova (Kosovo)
former: Kosovo and Metohija Autonomous Province


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Pristina (Prishtine)
geographic coordinates: 42 40 N, 21 10 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

30 municipalities (komunat, singular - komuna in Albanian; opstine,
singular - opstina in Serbian); Decan (Decani), Dragash (Dragas),
Ferizaj (Urosevac), Fushe Kosove (Kosovo Polje), Gjakove (Dakovica),
Gllogoc/Drenas (Glogovac), Gjilan (Gnjilane), Istog (Istok),
Kacanik, Kamenice/Dardana (Kamenica), Kline (Klina), Leposaviq
(Leposavic), Lipjan (Lipljan), Malisheve (Malisevo), Mitrovice
(Mitrovica), Novoberde (Novo Brdo), Obiliq (Obilic), Peje (Pec),
Podujeve (Podujevo), Prishtine (Pristina), Prizren, Rahovec
(Orahovac), Shtime (Stimlje), Shterpce (Strpce), Skenderaj (Srbica),
Suhareke (Suva Reka), Viti (Vitina), Vushtrri (Vucitrn), Zubin
Potok, Zvecan


Independence:

17 February 2008 (from Serbia)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 17 February (2008)


Constitution:

ratified 9 April 2008; effective 15 June 2008


Legal system:

evolving legal system based on terms of UN Special Envoy Martti
AHTISAARI's Plan for Kosovo's supervised independence


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Fatmir SEJDIU (since 10 February 2006)
head of government: Prime Minister Hashim THACI (since 9 January
2008)
cabinet: ministers; elected by the Kosovo Assembly
elections: the president is elected for a five-year term by the
Kosovo Assembly; election last held 9 January 2008 (next to be held
by in 2013); the prime minister is elected by the Kosovo Assembly
election results: Fatmir SEJDIU reelected president; first round:
Fatmir SEDIU 62, Naim MALOKU 37; second round: Fatmir SEDIU 61, Naim
MALOKU 37; and Hashim THACI elected to be prime minister by the
Assembly


Legislative branch:

unicameral Kosovo Assembly of the Provisional Government (120 seats;
100 seats directly elected, 10 seats for Serbs, 10 seats for other
minorities; to serve three-year terms)
elections: last held 17 November 2007 (next to be held in 2011)
election results: percent of vote by party - PDK 34.3%, LDK 22.6%,
AKR 12.3%, LDD 10.0%, AAK 9.6%, other 11.2%; seats by party - PDK
37, LDK 25, AKR 13, LDD 11, AAK 10, other 4


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court judges are appointed by the Special Representative of
the Secretary-General (SRSG); district courts judges are appointed
by the SRSG; municipal courts judges are appointed by the SRSG
note: after the termination of UNMIK's mandate, the Kosovo Judicial
Council (KJC) will propose to the president candidates for
appointment or reappointment as judges and prosecutors; the KJC is
also responsible for decisions on the promotion and transfer of
judges and disciplinary proceedings against judges; at least 15% of
Supreme Court and district court judges shall be from nonmajority
communities


Political parties and leaders:

Albanian Christian Democratic Party of Kosovo or PShDK [Mark
KRASNIQI]; Alliance for the Future of Kosovo or AAK [Ramush
HARADINAJ]; Alliance of Independent Social Democrats of Kososvo and
Metohija or SDSKIM [Slavisa PETKOVIC]; Autonomous Liberal Party of
SLS [Slobodan PETROVIC]; Bosniak Vakat Coalition [Dzezair MURATI];
Citizens' Initiative of Gora or GIG [Murselj HALILI]; Council of
Independent Social Democrats of Kosovo or SNSDKIM [Ljubisa ZIVIC];
Democratic League of Dardania or LDD [Nexhat DACI]; Democratic
League of Kosovo or LDK [Fatmir SEJDIU]; Democratic Party of Ashkali
of Kosovo or PDAK [Sabit RAHMANI]; Democratic Party of Kosovo or PDK
[Hashim THACI]; Kosovo Democratic Turkish Party of KDTP [Mahir
YAGCILAR]; New Democratic Initiative of Kosovo or IRDK [Xhevdet
NEZIRAJ]; New Democratic Party or ND [Branislav GRBIC]; New Kosovo
Alliance or AKR [Behxhet PACOLLI]; Popular Movement of Kosovo or LPK
[Emrush XHEMAJLI]; Reform Party Ora; Serb National Party or SNS
[Mihailo SCEPANOVIC]; Serbian Kosovo and Metohija Party or SKMS
[Dragisa MIRIC]; United Roma Party of Kosovo or PREBK [Haxhi Zylfi
MERXHA]; Democratic Action Party or SDA [Numan BALIC]; Serbian List
for Kosovo and Metohija [Oliver IVANOVIC]; Serbian National Council
of Northern Kosovo and Metohija or SNV [Milan IVANOVIC]; Democratic
Party of Bosniaks [Dzezair MURAIT]; Democratic Party Vatan [Sadik
IDRIZI]; Gorani Citizens Initiative [Mursel HALJILJI]; Serbian
People Party [Mihailo SCEPANOVIC]; Serbian Democratic Party of
Kosovo and Metohija [Slavisa PETKOVIC]; Serb Liberal Party [Slobodan
PETROVIC]; Independent League of Social-Democrats of Kosovo and
Metohija [Ljubisa ZIVIC]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Council for the Defense of Human Rights and Freedom (human rights);
Humanitarian Law Centre (human rights); Movement for
Self-Determination; Serb National Council (SNV)


International organization participation:

ITUC, WFTU


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Tina KAIDANOW
embassy: Arberia/Dragodan, Nazim Hikmet 30, Pristina, Kosovo
mailing address: use embassy street address
telephone: 381 38 59 59 3000
FAX: 381 38 549 890


Flag description:

centered on a dark blue field is the geographical shape of Kosovo in
a gold color surmounted by six white, five-pointed stars - each
representing one of the major ethnic groups of Kosovo - arrayed in a
slight arc


Economy
Kosovo



Economy - overview:

Over the past few years Kosovo's economy has shown significant
progress in transitioning to a market-based system, but it is still
highly dependent on the international community and the diaspora for
financial and technical assistance. Remittances from the diaspora -
located mainly in Germany and Switzerland - account for about 30% of
GDP. Kosovo's citizens are the poorest in Europe with an average
annual per capita income of only $1800 - about one-third the level
of neighboring Albania. Unemployment - at more than 40% of the
population - is a severe problem that encourages outward migration.
Most of Kosovo's population lives in rural towns outside of the
capital, Pristina. Inefficient, near-subsistence farming is common -
the result of small plots, limited mechanization, and lack of
technical expertise. Economic growth is largely driven by the
private sector - mostly small-scale retail businesses. With
international assistance, Kosovo has been able to privatize 50% of
its state-owned enterprises (SOEs) by number, and over 90% of SOEs
by value. Minerals and metals - including lignite, lead, zinc,
nickel, chrome, aluminum, magnesium, and a wide variety of
construction materials - once formed the backbone of industry, but
output has declined because investment has been insufficient to
replace ageing Eastern Bloc equipment. Technical and financial
problems in the power sector also impedes industrial development.
The US has worked with the World Bank to prepare a commercial tender
for the development of new power generating and mining capacity. The
official currency of Kosovo is the euro, but the Serbian dinar is
also used in the Serb enclaves. Kosovo's tie to the euro has helped
keep inflation low. Kosovo has maintained a budget surplus as a
result of efficient tax collection and inefficient budget execution.
While maintaining ultimate oversight, UNMIK continues to work with
the EU and with Kosovo's government to accelerate economic growth,
lower unemployment, and attract foreign investment. In order to help
integrate Kosovo into regional economic structures, UNMIK signed (on
behalf of Kosovo) its accession to the Central Europe Free Trade
Area (CEFTA) in 2006. In February 2008, UNMIK also represented
Kosovo at the newly established Regional Cooperation Council (RCC).


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$4 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$3.237 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

2.6% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$1,800 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 20%
industry: 20%
services: 60% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

832,000 (June 2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 21.4%
industry: NA
services: NA (2006 est,)


Unemployment rate:

43% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

37% (2007 est.)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

30 (FY05/06)


Investment (gross fixed):

29% of GDP (2006 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $1.364 billion
expenditures: $1.008 billion (2007 est.)


Public debt:

NA


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2% (2007 est.)


Agriculture - products:

NA


Industries:

mineral mining, construction materials, base metals, leather,
machinery, appliances


Electricity - production:

3.996 billion kWh (2006)


Electricity - consumption:

4.281 billion kWh (2006)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007)


Oil - consumption:

NA bbl


Oil - proved reserves:

NA bbl


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

NA cu m


Current account balance:

-$58.3 million (2007)


Exports:

$148.4 million (2007)


Exports - commodities:

mining and processed metal products, scrap metals, leather products,
machinery, appliances


Exports - partners:

Central Europe Free Trade Area (CFTA) 56% (2006)


Imports:

$NA


Imports - commodities:

foodstuffs, wood, petroleum, chemicals, machinery and electrical
equipment


Imports - partners:

EU 35%, Macedonia 15%, Serbia 13%, Turkey 8% (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$324 million (2007)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$NA


Debt - external:

according to the national bank of Serbia, Kosovo's external debt was
around $1.2 billion; Kosovo was willing to accept around $900
million (2007)


Currency (code):

euro (EUR); Serbian Dinar (RSD) is also in circulation


Exchange rates:

euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007)


Communications
Kosovo



Telephones - main lines in use:

106,300 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

562,000 (2006)


Transportation
Kosovo



Airports:

10 (2008)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 6
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
under 914 m: 4 (2008)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 4
under 914 m: 4 (2008)


Heliports:

2 (2008)


Railways:

total: 430 km (2005)


Roadways:

total: 1,924 km
paved: 1,666 km
unpaved: 258 km (2006)



Transnational Issues
Kosovo



Disputes - international:

Serbia with several other states protest the US and other states'
recognition of Kosovo's declaring itself as a sovereign and
independent state in February 2008; ethnic Serbian municipalities
along Kosovo's northern border challenge final status of
Kosovo-Serbia boundary; several thousand NATO-led KFOR peacekeepers
under UNMIK authority continue to keep the peace within Kosovo
between the ethnic Albanian majority and the Serb minority in
Kosovo; Kosovo and Macedonia completed demarcation of their boundary
in September 2008


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

IDP's: 21,000 (2007)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Kuwait

Introduction
Kuwait



Background:

Britain oversaw foreign relations and defense for the ruling Kuwaiti
AL-SABAH dynasty from 1899 until independence in 1961. Kuwait was
attacked and overrun by Iraq on 2 August 1990. Following several
weeks of aerial bombardment, a US-led, UN coalition began a ground
assault on 23 February 1991 that liberated Kuwait in four days.
Kuwait spent more than $5 billion to repair oil infrastructure
damaged during 1990-91. The AL-SABAH family has ruled since
returning to power in 1991 and reestablished an elected legislature
that in recent years has become increasingly assertive.


Geography
Kuwait



Location:

Middle East, bordering the Persian Gulf, between Iraq and Saudi
Arabia


Geographic coordinates:

29 30 N, 45 45 E


Map references:

Middle East


Area:

total: 17,820 sq km
land: 17,820 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than New Jersey


Land boundaries:

total: 462 km
border countries: Iraq 240 km, Saudi Arabia 222 km


Coastline:

499 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm


Climate:

dry desert; intensely hot summers; short, cool winters


Terrain:

flat to slightly undulating desert plain


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Persian Gulf 0 m
highest point: unnamed location 306 m


Natural resources:

petroleum, fish, shrimp, natural gas


Land use:

arable land: 0.84%
permanent crops: 0.17%
other: 98.99% (2005)


Irrigated land:

130 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

0.02 cu km (1997)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.44 cu km/yr (45%/2%/52%)
per capita: 164 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

sudden cloudbursts are common from October to April and bring heavy
rain, which can damage roads and houses; sandstorms and dust storms
occur throughout the year but are most common between March and
August


Environment - current issues:

limited natural fresh water resources; some of world's largest and
most sophisticated desalination facilities provide much of the
water; air and water pollution; desertification


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
Protection
signed, but not ratified: Marine Dumping


Geography - note:

strategic location at head of Persian Gulf


People
Kuwait



Population:

2,596,799
note: includes 1,291,354 non-nationals (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 26.6% (male 351,057/female 338,634)
15-64 years: 70.6% (male 1,172,460/female 659,927)
65 years and over: 2.9% (male 46,770/female 27,951) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 26.1 years
male: 28 years
female: 22.6 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

3.591%
note: this rate reflects a return to pre-Gulf crisis immigration of
expatriates (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

21.9 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

2.37 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

16.39 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.04 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.78 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 1.67 male(s)/female
total population: 1.53 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 9.22 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 10.2 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 8.21 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 77.53 years
male: 76.38 years
female: 78.73 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.81 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.12% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Kuwaiti(s)
adjective: Kuwaiti


Ethnic groups:

Kuwaiti 45%, other Arab 35%, South Asian 9%, Iranian 4%, other 7%


Religions:

Muslim 85% (Sunni 70%, Shia 30%), other (includes Christian, Hindu,
Parsi) 15%


Languages:

Arabic (official), English widely spoken


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 93.3%
male: 94.4%
female: 91% (2005 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 13 years
male: 12 years
female: 13 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

3.8% of GDP (2006)


Government
Kuwait



Country name:

conventional long form: State of Kuwait
conventional short form: Kuwait
local long form: Dawlat al Kuwayt
local short form: Al Kuwayt


Government type:

constitutional emirate


Capital:

name: Kuwait
geographic coordinates: 29 22 N, 47 58 E
time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

6 governorates (muhafazat, singular - muhafazah); Al Ahmadi, Al
'Asimah, Al Farwaniyah, Al Jahra', Hawalli, Mubarak al Kabir


Independence:

19 June 1961 (from UK)


National holiday:

National Day, 25 February (1950)


Constitution:

approved and promulgated 11 November 1962


Legal system:

civil law system with Islamic law significant in personal matters;
has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

NA years of age; universal (adult); note - males in the military or
police are not allowed to vote; adult females were allowed to vote
as of 16 May 2005; all voters must have been citizens for 20 years


Executive branch:

chief of state: Amir SABAH al-Ahmad al-Jabir al-Sabah (since 29
January 2006); Crown Prince NAWAF al-Ahmad al-Jabir al-Sabah
head of government: Prime Minister NASIR MUHAMMAD al-Ahmad al-Sabah
(since 3 April 2007); First Deputy Prime Minister JABIR Mubarak
al-Hamad al-Sabah (since 9 February 2006); Deputy Prime Ministers
MUHAMMAD al-Sabah al-Salim al-Sabah (since 9 February 2006) and
Faysal al-HAJJI (since 5 April 2007); note - the Amir accepted the
resignation of the prime minister and cabinet on 1 December 2008)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister and
approved by the Amir
elections: none; the amir is hereditary; the amir appoints the prime
minister and deputy prime ministers


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly or Majlis al-Umma (50 seats; members
elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms; all cabinet
ministers are also ex officio voting members of the National
Assembly)
elections: last held 17 May 2008 (next election to be held in 2012)
election results: percent of vote by bloc - NA; seats by bloc -
Sunni 21, Islamic Salafi Alliance 10, Liberals 7, Shiites 5, Popular
Action Bloc 4, Islamic Constitutional Movement 3


Judicial branch:

High Court of Appeal


Political parties and leaders:

none; formation of political parties is in practice illegal but is
not forbidden by law


Political pressure groups and leaders:

other: Islamists; merchants; political groups; secular liberals and
pro-governmental deputies; Shia activists; tribal groups


International organization participation:

ABEDA, AfDB (nonregional members), AFESD, AMF, BDEAC, CAEU, FAO,
G-77, GCC, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IDB,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IPU, ISO,
ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAS, MIGA, NAM, OAPEC, OIC, OPCW, OPEC, PCA, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNITAR, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador SALIM al-Abdallah al-Jabir al-Sabah
chancery: 2940 Tilden Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 966-0702
FAX: [1] (202) 966-0517


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Deborah K. JONES
embassy: Bayan 36302, Block 13, Al-Masjed Al-Aqsa Street (near the
Bayan palace), Kuwait City
mailing address: P. O. Box 77 Safat 13001 Kuwait; or PSC 1280 APO AE
09880-9000
telephone: [965] 259-1001
FAX: [965] 538-0282


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of green (top), white, and red with a
black trapezoid based on the hoist side; design, which dates to
1961, based on the Arab revolt flag of World War I


Economy
Kuwait



Economy - overview:

Kuwait is a small, rich, relatively open economy with self-reported
crude oil reserves of about 104 billion barrels - 10% of world
reserves. Petroleum accounts for nearly half of GDP, 95% of export
revenues, and 80% of government income. High oil prices in recent
years have helped build Kuwait's budget and trade surpluses and
foreign reserves. As a result of this positive fiscal situation, the
need for economic reforms is less urgent and the government has not
earnestly pushed through new initiatives. Despite its vast oil
reserves, Kuwait experienced power outages during the summer months
in 2006 and 2007 because demand exceeded power generating capacity.
Power outages are likely to worsen, given its high population growth
rates, unless the government can increase generating capacity. In
May 2007 Kuwait changed its currency peg from the US dollar to a
basket of currencies in order to curb inflation and to reduce its
vulnerability to external shocks.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$140 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$111.3 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

4.7% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$55,900 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 0.3%
industry: 52.4%
services: 47.3% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

2.093 million
note: non-Kuwaitis represent about 80% of the labor force (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: NA%
industry: NA%
services: NA%


Unemployment rate:

2.2% (2004 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Investment (gross fixed):

19.7% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $85.28 billion
expenditures: $37.77 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 April - 31 March


Public debt:

9.7% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

5.5% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

6.25% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

8.54% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$15.12 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$55.2 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$78.25 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

practically no crops; fish


Industries:

petroleum, petrochemicals, cement, shipbuilding and repair, water
desalination, food processing, construction materials


Industrial production growth rate:

1.7% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

44.75 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

39.54 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

2.613 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

334,700 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

2.356 million bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

8,022 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

104 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

12.5 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

12.5 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

1.586 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$47.5 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$63.72 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

oil and refined products, fertilizers


Exports - partners:

Japan 19.9%, South Korea 17%, Taiwan 11.2%, Singapore 9.9%, US 8.4%,
Netherlands 4.8%, China 4.4% (2007)


Imports:

$20.64 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

food, construction materials, vehicles and parts, clothing


Imports - partners:

US 12.7%, Japan 8.5%, Germany 7.3%, China 6.8%, South Korea 6.6%,
Saudi Arabia 6.2%, Italy 5.8%, UK 4.6% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$2.6 million (2004)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$16.78 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$33.62 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$898 million (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$24.22 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$128.9 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

Kuwaiti dinar (KD)


Currency code:

KWD


Exchange rates:

Kuwaiti dinars (KD) per US dollar - 0.2844 (2007), 0.29 (2006),
0.292 (2005), 0.2947 (2004), 0.298 (2003)


Communications
Kuwait



Telephones - main lines in use:

517,000 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

2.774 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: the quality of service is excellent
domestic: new telephone exchanges provide a large capacity for new
subscribers; trunk traffic is carried by microwave radio relay,
coaxial cable, and open-wire and fiber-optic cable; a cellular
telephone system operates throughout Kuwait, and the country is well
supplied with pay telephones
international: country code - 965; linked to international submarine
cable Fiber-Optic Link Around the Globe (FLAG); linked to Bahrain,
Qatar, UAE via the Fiber-Optic Gulf (FOG) cable; coaxial cable and
microwave radio relay to Saudi Arabia; satellite earth stations - 6
(3 Intelsat - 1 Atlantic Ocean and 2 Indian Ocean, 1 Inmarsat -
Atlantic Ocean, and 2 Arabsat)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 6, FM 11, shortwave 1 (1998)


Radios:

1.175 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

13 (plus several satellite channels) (1997)


Televisions:

875,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.kw


Internet hosts:

3,289 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

3 (2000)


Internet users:

900,000 (2007)


Transportation
Kuwait



Airports:

7 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 4
over 3,047 m: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 3
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
under 914 m: 2 (2007)


Heliports:

4 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 269 km; oil 540 km; refined products 57 km (2007)


Roadways:

total: 5,749 km
paved: 4,887 km
unpaved: 862 km (2004)


Merchant marine:

total: 38
by type: bulk carrier 2, cargo 1, carrier 3, container 6, liquefied
gas 4, petroleum tanker 22
registered in other countries: 34 (Bahrain 5, Comoros 1, Libya 1,
Panama 2, Qatar 7, Saint Kitts and Nevis 1, Saudi Arabia 7, UAE 10)
(2008)


Ports and terminals:

Ash Shu'aybah, Ash Shuwaykh, Az Zawr (Mina' Sa'ud), Mina' 'Abd
Allah, Mina' al Ahmadi


Military
Kuwait



Military branches:

Land Forces, Kuwaiti Navy, Kuwaiti Air Force (Al-Quwwat al-Jawwiya
al-Kuwaitiya), National Guard (2007)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military service;
reserve obligation to age 40 with 1 month annual training; women
have served in police forces since 1999 (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,032,408
females age 16-49: 568,657 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 892,816
females age 16-49: 500,540 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 17,737
female: 18,519 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

5.3% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Kuwait



Disputes - international:

Kuwait and Saudi Arabia continue negotiating a joint maritime
boundary with Iran; no maritime boundary exists with Iraq in the
Persian Gulf


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Kuwait is a destination country for men and women
who migrate legally from South and Southeast Asia for domestic or
low-skilled labor, but are subjected to conditions of involuntary
servitude by employers in Kuwait including conditions of physical
and sexual abuse, non-payment of wages, confinement to the home, and
withholding of passports to restrict their freedom of movement;
Kuwait is reportedly a transit point for South and East Asian
workers recruited for low-skilled work in Iraq; some of these
workers are deceived as to the true location and nature of this
work, and others are subjected to conditions of involuntary
servitude in Iraq
tier rating: Tier 3 - insufficient efforts in 2007 to prosecute and
punish abusive employers and those who traffic women for sexual
exploitation; the government failed for the fourth year in a row to
live up to promises to provide shelter and protective services for
victims of involuntary domestic servitude and other forms of
trafficking (2008)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Kyrgyzstan

Introduction
Kyrgyzstan



Background:

A Central Asian country of incredible natural beauty and proud
nomadic traditions, most of Kyrgyzstan was formally annexed to
Russia in 1876. The Kyrgyz staged a major revolt against the Tsarist
Empire in 1916 in which almost one-sixth of the Kyrgyz population
was killed. Kyrgyzstan became a Soviet republic in 1936 and achieved
independence in 1991 when the USSR dissolved. Nationwide
demonstrations in the spring of 2005 resulted in the ouster of
President Askar AKAYEV, who had run the country since 1990.
Subsequent presidential elections in July 2005 were won
overwhelmingly by former prime minister Kurmanbek BAKIEV. The
political opposition organized demonstrations in Bishkek in April,
May, and November 2006 resulting in the adoption of a new
constitution that transferred some of the president's powers to
parliament and the government. In December 2006, the Kyrgyz
parliament voted to adopt new amendments, restoring some of the
presidential powers lost in the November 2006 constitutional change.
By late-September 2007, both previous versions of the constitution
were declared illegal, and the country reverted to the AKAYEV-era
2003 constitution, which was subsequently modified in a flawed
referendum initiated by BAKIEV. The president then dissolved
parliament, called for early elections, and gained control of the
new parliament through his newly-created political party, Ak Jol, in
December 2007 elections. Current concerns include: privatization of
state-owned enterprises, negative trends in democracy and political
freedoms, reduction of corruption, improving interethnic relations,
and combating terrorism.


Geography
Kyrgyzstan



Location:

Central Asia, west of China


Geographic coordinates:

41 00 N, 75 00 E


Map references:

Asia


Area:

total: 198,500 sq km
land: 191,300 sq km
water: 7,200 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than South Dakota


Land boundaries:

total: 3,051 km
border countries: China 858 km, Kazakhstan 1,224 km, Tajikistan 870
km, Uzbekistan 1,099 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

dry continental to polar in high Tien Shan; subtropical in southwest
(Fergana Valley); temperate in northern foothill zone


Terrain:

peaks of Tien Shan and associated valleys and basins encompass
entire nation


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Kara-Daryya (Karadar'ya) 132 m
highest point: Jengish Chokusu (Pik Pobedy) 7,439 m


Natural resources:

abundant hydropower; significant deposits of gold and rare earth
metals; locally exploitable coal, oil, and natural gas; other
deposits of nepheline, mercury, bismuth, lead, and zinc


Land use:

arable land: 6.55%
permanent crops: 0.28%
other: 93.17%
note: Kyrgyzstan has the world's largest natural-growth walnut
forest (2005)


Irrigated land:

10,720 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

46.5 cu km (1997)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 10.08 cu km/yr (3%/3%/94%)
per capita: 1,916 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

NA


Environment - current issues:

water pollution; many people get their water directly from
contaminated streams and wells; as a result, water-borne diseases
are prevalent; increasing soil salinity from faulty irrigation
practices


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone
Layer Protection, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

landlocked; entirely mountainous, dominated by the Tien Shan range;
many tall peaks, glaciers, and high-altitude lakes


People
Kyrgyzstan



Population:

5,356,869 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 29.9% (male 817,369/female 784,782)
15-64 years: 64% (male 1,681,440/female 1,748,222)
65 years and over: 6.1% (male 127,263/female 197,793) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 24.2 years
male: 23.3 years
female: 25 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.38% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

23.31 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

6.97 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-2.55 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.96 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.64 male(s)/female
total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 32.3 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 37.33 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 27 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 69.12 years
male: 65.12 years
female: 73.33 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.67 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

less than 0.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

3,900 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 200 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Kyrgyzstani(s)
adjective: Kyrgyzstani


Ethnic groups:

Kyrgyz 64.9%, Uzbek 13.8%, Russian 12.5%, Dungan 1.1%, Ukrainian 1%,
Uygur 1%, other 5.7% (1999 census)


Religions:

Muslim 75%, Russian Orthodox 20%, other 5%


Languages:

Kyrgyz 64.7% (official), Uzbek 13.6%, Russian 12.5% (official),
Dungun 1%, other 8.2% (1999 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 98.7%
male: 99.3%
female: 98.1% (1999 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 12 years
male: 12 years
female: 13 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

4.9% of GDP (2005)


Government
Kyrgyzstan



Country name:

conventional long form: Kyrgyz Republic
conventional short form: Kyrgyzstan
local long form: Kyrgyz Respublikasy
local short form: Kyrgyzstan
former: Kirghiz Soviet Socialist Republic


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Bishkek
geographic coordinates: 42 52 N, 74 36 E
time difference: UTC+6 (11 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

7 provinces (oblastlar, singular - oblasty) and 1 city* (shaar);
Batken Oblasty, Bishkek Shaary*, Chuy Oblasty (Bishkek), Jalal-Abad
Oblasty, Naryn Oblasty, Osh Oblasty, Talas Oblasty, Ysyk-Kol Oblasty
(Karakol)
note: administrative divisions have the same names as their
administrative centers (exceptions have the administrative center
name following in parentheses)


Independence:

31 August 1991 (from Soviet Union)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 31 August (1991)


Constitution:

adopted 5 May 1993; note - amendment proposed by President Askar
AKAYEV and passed in a national referendum on 2 February 2003
significantly expanded the powers of the president at the expense of
the legislature; during large-scale demonstrations in November 2006,
President BAKIEV and the opposition negotiated a new constitution
granting greater powers to the parliament and the government;
amendments added on 30 December 2006 redistributed some power back
to the president, but both November and December 2006 versions were
annulled in September 2007, and a new version was approved by
referendum on 21 October 2007; the BAKIEV-initiated referendum was
criticized by Western observers for voting irregularities,
particularly ballot stuffing


Legal system:

based on French and Russian laws; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Kurmanbek BAKIEV (since 14 August 2005)
head of government: Prime Minister Igor CHUDINOV (since 24 December
2007)
cabinet: Cabinet of Ministers proposed by the prime minister,
appointed by the president; ministers in charge of defense and
security, appointed solely by the president
elections: Kurmanbek BAKIEV elected by popular vote for a five-year
term (eligible for a second term); election last held 10 July 2005
(next scheduled for 2010); prime minister nominated by the
parliamentary party holding more than 50% of the seats; if no such
party exists, the president selects the party that will nominate a
prime minister
election results: Kurmanbek BAKIEV elected president; percent of
vote - Kurmanbek BAKIEV 88.6%, Tursunbai BAKIR-UULU 3.9%, other
candidates 7.5%


Legislative branch:

unicameral Supreme Council or Jorgorku Kengesh (90 seats; members
are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held 16 December 2007 (next to be held in 2012)
election results: Supreme Council - percent of vote by party - NA;
seats by party - Ak Jol 71, Social Democratic Party 11, KCP 8


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court; Constitutional Court (judges of both the Supreme and
Constitutional Courts are appointed for 10-year terms by the
Jorgorku Kengesh on the recommendation of the president; their
mandatory retirement age is 70 years); Higher Court of Arbitration;
Local Courts (judges appointed by the president on the
recommendation of the National Council on Legal Affairs for a
probationary period of five years, then 10 years)


Political parties and leaders:

Ak Jol [Avtandil ARABAYEV, Elmira IBRAIMOVA, Vladimir NIFADYEV,
co-chairs]; Ar-Namys (Dignity) Party [Emil ALIYEV]; Asaba (Banner
National Revival Party) [Azimbek BEKNAZAROV]; Ata-Meken (Fatherland)
[Omurbek TEKEBAYEV]; Democratic Movement of Kyrgyzstan or DDK
[Viktor TCHETRNOMORETS]; Erkindik (Freedom) Party [Topchubek
TURGUNALIYEV]; Moya Strana (My Country Party of Action) [Medet
SADYRKULOV]; Party of Communists of Kyrgyzstan or KCP [Ishak
MASALIYEV]; Party of Justice and Progress [Muratbek IMANALIEV];
Party of Peasants [Esengul ISAKOV]; Republican Party of Labor and
Unity [Tabaldy OROZALIYEV]; Sanjira (Tree of Life) [Ednan
KARABAYEV]; Social Democratic Party [Almaz ATAMBAYEV]; Union of
Democratic Forces [Kubatbek BAIBOLOV]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Adilet Legal Clinic [Cholpon JAKUPOVA]; Coalition for Democracy and
Civil Society [Dinara OSHURAKHUNOVA]; Interbilim [Asiya SASYKBAYEVA]


International organization participation:

ADB, CIS, CSTO, EAEC, EAPC, EBRD, ECO, FAO, GCTU, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF,
Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, MIGA,
MINURCAT, NAM (observer), OIC, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, PFP, SCO, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO,
WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Zamira SYDYKOVA
chancery: 2360 Massachusetts Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 449-9822
FAX: [1] (202) 386-7550
consulate(s): New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Tatiana C. GFOELLER
embassy: 171 Prospect Mira, Bishkek 720016
mailing address: use embassy street address
telephone: [996] (312) 551-241, (517) 777-217
FAX: [996] (312) 551-264


Flag description:

red field with a yellow sun in the center having 40 rays
representing the 40 Kyrgyz tribes; on the obverse side the rays run
counterclockwise, on the reverse, clockwise; in the center of the
sun is a red ring crossed by two sets of three lines, a stylized
representation of the roof of the traditional Kyrgyz yurt


Economy
Kyrgyzstan



Economy - overview:

Kyrgyzstan is a poor, mountainous country with a predominantly
agricultural economy. Cotton, tobacco, wool, and meat are the main
agricultural products, although only tobacco and cotton are exported
in any quantity. Industrial exports include gold, mercury, uranium,
natural gas, and electricity. Following independence, Kyrgyzstan was
progressive in carrying out market reforms such as an improved
regulatory system and land reform. Kyrgyzstan was the first
Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) country to be accepted into
the World Trade Organization. Much of the government's stock in
enterprises has been sold. Drops in production had been severe after
the breakup of the Soviet Union in December 1991, but by mid-1995,
production began to recover and exports began to increase. The
economy is heavily weighted toward gold export and a drop in output
at the main Kumtor gold mine sparked a 0.5% decline in GDP in 2002
and a 0.6% decline in 2005. GDP grew more than 6% in 2007, partly
due to higher gold prices internationally. The government made
steady strides in controlling its substantial fiscal deficit, nearly
closing the gap between revenues and expenditures in 2006, before
boosting expenditures more than 20% in 2007. The government and
international financial institutions have been engaged in a
comprehensive medium-term poverty reduction and economic growth
strategy. In 2005, Bishkek agreed to pursue much-needed tax reform
and, in 2006, became eligible for the heavily indebted poor
countries (HIPC) initiative. Progress fighting corruption, further
restructuring of domestic industry, and success in attracting
foreign investment are keys to future growth.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$10.55 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$3.748 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

8.2% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$2,000 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 33.6%
industry: 18.9%
services: 47.5% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

2.7 million (2000)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 55%
industry: 15%
services: 30% (2000 est.)


Unemployment rate:

18% (2004 est.)


Population below poverty line:

40% (2004 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 3.8%
highest 10%: 24.3% (2003)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

30.3 (2003)


Investment (gross fixed):

25.6% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $964.6 million
expenditures: $961.1 million (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

10.2% (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

25.32% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$911.1 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$303.7 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$558.3 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

tobacco, cotton, potatoes, vegetables, grapes, fruits and berries;
sheep, goats, cattle, wool


Industries:

small machinery, textiles, food processing, cement, shoes, sawn
logs, refrigerators, furniture, electric motors, gold, rare earth
metals


Industrial production growth rate:

9.3% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

15.62 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

8.997 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

2.387 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 7.6%
hydro: 92.4%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

964.7 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

12,330 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

2,534 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

14,240 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

40 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

18 million cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

768 million cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

750 million cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

5.663 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$267.9 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$1.337 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

cotton, wool, meat, tobacco; gold, mercury, uranium, natural gas,
hydropower; machinery; shoes


Exports - partners:

Russia 20.7%, Switzerland 19.9%, Kazakhstan 18%, Afghanistan 10.4%,
Uzbekistan 7.6%, China 5.5% (2007)


Imports:

$2.636 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

oil and gas, machinery and equipment, chemicals, foodstuffs


Imports - partners:

Russia 40.5%, China 14.7%, Kazakhstan 12.9%, Uzbekistan 5% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$268.5 million from the US (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$1.177 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$2.966 billion (30 June 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$NA


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$41.99 million (2005)


Currency (code):

som (KGS)


Currency code:

KGS


Exchange rates:

soms (KGS) per US dollar - 37.746 (2007), 40.149 (2006), 41.012
(2005), 42.65 (2004), 43.648 (2003)


Communications
Kyrgyzstan



Telephones - main lines in use:

482,100 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

2.152 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: telecommunications infrastructure is growing;
fixed line penetration remains low and concentrated in urban areas
domestic: multiple mobile cellular service providers with growing
coverage; mobile cellular subscribership reached 40 per 100 persons
in 2007
international: country code - 996; connections with other CIS
countries by landline or microwave radio relay and with other
countries by leased connections with Moscow international gateway
switch and by satellite; satellite earth stations - 2 (1
Intersputnik, 1 Intelsat); connected internationally by the
Trans-Asia-Europe (TAE) fiber-optic line (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 3 (plus 10 repeater stations), FM 23, shortwave NA (2007)


Radios:

520,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

8 (2 countrywide and 6 regional stations; state-owned); note - there
are about 20 private TV stations, most of which rebroadcast other
channels (2007)


Televisions:

210,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.kg


Internet hosts:

56,905 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

NA


Internet users:

750,000 (2007)


Transportation
Kyrgyzstan



Airports:

30 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 18
over 3,047 m: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 3
1,524 to 2,437 m: 11
under 914 m: 3 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 12
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 10 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 254 km; oil 16 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 470 km
broad gauge: 470 km 1.520-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 18,500 km
paved: 16,909 km (includes 140 km of expressways)
unpaved: 1,591 km (2003)


Waterways:

600 km (2007)


Ports and terminals:

Balykchy (Ysyk-Kol or Rybach'ye)


Military
Kyrgyzstan



Military branches:

Army, Air Force, National Guard (2005)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for compulsory military service (2001)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,398,878
females age 16-49: 1,419,374 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,061,942
females age 16-49: 1,211,249 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 60,706
female: 58,721 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.4% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Kyrgyzstan



Disputes - international:

Kyrgyzstan has yet to ratify the 2001 boundary delimitation with
Kazakhstan; disputes in Isfara Valley delay completion of
delimitation with Tajikistan; delimitation of 130 km of border with
Uzbekistan is hampered by serious disputes around enclaves and other
areas


Illicit drugs:

limited illicit cultivation of cannabis and opium poppy for CIS
markets; limited government eradication of illicit crops; transit
point for Southwest Asian narcotics bound for Russia and the rest of
Europe; major consumer of opiates



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Laos

Introduction
Laos



Background:

Modern-day Laos has its roots in the ancient Lao kingdom of Lan
Xang, established in the 14th Century under King FA NGUM. For 300
years Lan Xang had influence reaching into present-day Cambodia and
Thailand, as well as over all of what is now Laos. After centuries
of gradual decline, Laos came under the domination of Siam
(Thailand) from the late 18th century until the late 19th century
when it became part of French Indochina. The Franco-Siamese Treaty
of 1907 defined the current Lao border with Thailand. In 1975, the
Communist Pathet Lao took control of the government ending a
six-century-old monarchy and instituting a strict socialist regime
closely aligned to Vietnam. A gradual return to private enterprise
and the liberalization of foreign investment laws began in 1986.
Laos became a member of ASEAN in 1997.


Geography
Laos



Location:

Southeastern Asia, northeast of Thailand, west of Vietnam


Geographic coordinates:

18 00 N, 105 00 E


Map references:

Southeast Asia


Area:

total: 236,800 sq km
land: 230,800 sq km
water: 6,000 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than Utah


Land boundaries:

total: 5,083 km
border countries: Burma 235 km, Cambodia 541 km, China 423 km,
Thailand 1,754 km, Vietnam 2,130 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

tropical monsoon; rainy season (May to November); dry season
(December to April)


Terrain:

mostly rugged mountains; some plains and plateaus


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Mekong River 70 m
highest point: Phou Bia 2,817 m


Natural resources:

timber, hydropower, gypsum, tin, gold, gemstones


Land use:

arable land: 4.01%
permanent crops: 0.34%
other: 95.65% (2005)


Irrigated land:

1,750 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

333.6 cu km (2003)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 3 cu km/yr (4%/6%/90%)
per capita: 507 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

floods, droughts


Environment - current issues:

unexploded ordnance; deforestation; soil erosion; most of the
population does not have access to potable water


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

landlocked; most of the country is mountainous and thickly forested;
the Mekong River forms a large part of the western boundary with
Thailand


People
Laos



Population:

6,677,534 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 41% (male 1,374,966/female 1,362,945)
15-64 years: 55.9% (male 1,846,375/female 1,885,029)
65 years and over: 3.1% (male 91,028/female 117,191) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 19.2 years
male: 18.9 years
female: 19.5 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.344% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

34.46 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

11.02 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.78 male(s)/female
total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 79.61 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 88.9 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 69.88 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 56.29 years
male: 54.19 years
female: 58.47 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

4.5 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.1% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

1,700 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 200 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: dengue fever, Japanese encephalitis, and
malaria
note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Lao(s) or Laotian(s)
adjective: Lao or Laotian


Ethnic groups:

Lao 55%, Khmou 11%, Hmong 8%, other (over 100 minor ethnic groups)
26% (2005 census)


Religions:

Buddhist 67%, Christian 1.5%, other and unspecified 31.5% (2005
census)


Languages:

Lao (official), French, English, and various ethnic languages


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 68.7%
male: 77%
female: 60.9% (2001 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 9 years
male: 10 years
female: 8 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

3% of GDP (2006)


Government
Laos



Country name:

conventional long form: Lao People's Democratic Republic
conventional short form: Laos
local long form: Sathalanalat Paxathipatai Paxaxon Lao
local short form: none


Government type:

Communist state


Capital:

name: Vientiane
geographic coordinates: 17 58 N, 102 36 E
time difference: UTC+7 (12 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

16 provinces (khoueng, singular and plural) and 1 capital city*
(nakhon luang, singular and plural); Attapu, Bokeo, Bolikhamxai,
Champasak, Houaphan, Khammouan, Louangnamtha, Louangphrabang,
Oudomxai, Phongsali, Salavan, Savannakhet, Viangchan (Vientiane)*,
Viangchan, Xaignabouli, Xekong, Xiangkhoang


Independence:

19 July 1949 (from France)


National holiday:

Republic Day, 2 December (1975)


Constitution:

promulgated 14 August 1991


Legal system:

based on traditional customs, French legal norms and procedures, and
socialist practice; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Lt. Gen. CHOUMMALI Saignason (since 8 June
2006); Vice President BOUN-GNANG Volachit (since 8 June 2006)
head of government: Prime Minister BOUASONE Bouphavanh (since 8 June
2006); Deputy Prime Ministers Maj. Gen. ASANG Laoli (since May
2002), Maj. Gen. DOUANGCHAI Phichit (since 8 June 2006), SOMSAVAT
Lengsavat (since 26 February 1998), and THONGLOUN Sisoulit (since 27
March 2001)
cabinet: Ministers appointed by president, approved by National
Assembly
elections: president and vice president elected by National Assembly
for five-year terms; election last held 8 June 2006 (next to be held
in 2011); prime minister nominated by president and elected by
National Assembly for five-year term
election results: CHOUMMALI Saignason elected president; BOUN-GNANG
Volachit elected vice president; percent of National Assembly vote -
100%; BOUASONE Bouphavanh elected prime minister; percent of
National Assembly vote - 97%


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly (115 seats; members elected by popular
vote from a list of candidates selected by the Lao People's
Revolutionary Party to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held 30 April 2006 (next to be held in 2011)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
LPRP 113, independents 2


Judicial branch:

People's Supreme Court (the president of the People's Supreme Court
is elected by the National Assembly on the recommendation of the
National Assembly Standing Committee; the vice president of the
People's Supreme Court and the judges are appointed by the National
Assembly Standing Committee)


Political parties and leaders:

Lao People's Revolutionary Party or LPRP [CHOUMMALI Saignason];
other parties proscribed


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

ADB, APT, ARF, ASEAN, CP, EAS, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC, IPU, ISO (subscriber),
ITU, MIGA, NAM, OIF, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO,
UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador PHIANE Philakone
chancery: 2222 S Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 332-6416
FAX: [1] (202) 332-4923


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Ravic R. HUSO
embassy: 19 Rue Bartholonie, That Dam, Vientiane
mailing address: American Embassy Vientiane, APO AP 96546
telephone: [856] 21-26-7000
FAX: [856] 21-26-7190


Flag description:

three horizontal bands of red (top), blue (double width), and red
with a large white disk centered in the blue band


Economy
Laos



Economy - overview:

The government of Laos, one of the few remaining one-party Communist
states, began decentralizing control and encouraging private
enterprise in 1986. The results, starting from an extremely low
base, were striking - growth averaged 6% per year in 1988-2007
except during the short-lived drop caused by the Asian financial
crisis beginning in 1997. Despite this high growth rate, Laos
remains a country with a underdeveloped infrastructure, particularly
in rural areas. It has no railroads, a rudimentary road system, and
limited external and internal telecommunications, though the
government is sponsoring major improvements in the road system with
support from Japan and China. Electricity is available in urban
areas and in most rural districts. Subsistence agriculture,
dominated by rice, accounts for about 40% of GDP and provides 80% of
total employment. The economy will continue to benefit from aid from
international donors and from foreign investment in hydropower and
mining. Construction will be another strong economic driver,
especially as hydroelectric dam and road projects gain steam.
Several policy changes since 2004 may help spur growth. In late
2004, Laos gained Normal Trade Relations status with the US,
allowing Laos-based producers to benefit from lower tariffs on
exports. Laos is taking steps to join the World Trade Organization
in the next few years; the resulting trade policy reforms will
improve the business environment. On the fiscal side, a value-added
tax (VAT) regime, slated to begin in 2008, should help streamline
the government's inefficient tax system.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$12.8 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$4.028 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

7.5% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$2,000 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 40.9%
industry: 33.2%
services: 25.9% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

2.1 million (2006 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 80%
industry and services: 20% (2005 est.)


Unemployment rate:

2.4% (2005 est.)


Population below poverty line:

30.7% (2005 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 3.4%
highest 10%: 28.5% (2002)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

34.6 (2002)


Budget:

revenues: $473.1 million
expenditures: $647.2 million (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 October - 30 September


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

4.5% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

12.67% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

28.5% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$327.9 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$717.9 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$285.8 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

sweet potatoes, vegetables, corn, coffee, sugarcane, tobacco,
cotton, tea, peanuts, rice; water buffalo, pigs, cattle, poultry


Industries:

copper, tin, gold, and gypsum mining; timber, electric power,
agricultural processing, construction, garments, tourism, cement


Industrial production growth rate:

12% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

1.639 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

1.344 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

547 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - imports:

367 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 1.4%
hydro: 98.6%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

2,996 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

3,036 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$285 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$970 million (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

wood products, coffee, electricity, tin, copper, gold


Exports - partners:

Thailand 32.7%, Vietnam 14.3%, China 5.9%, South Korea 4.8% (2007)


Imports:

$1.378 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, vehicles, fuel, consumer goods


Imports - partners:

Thailand 68.5%, China 9.3%, Vietnam 5.5% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$379 million (2006 est.)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$540 million (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$3.179 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

kip (LAK)


Currency code:

LAK


Exchange rates:

kips (LAK) per US dollar - 9,658 (2007), 10,235 (2006), 10,820
(2005), 10,585.5 (2004), 10,569 (2003)


Communications
Laos



Telephones - main lines in use:

94,800 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

1.478 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: service to general public is poor but improving;
the government relies on a radiotelephone network to communicate
with remote areas
domestic: multiple service providers; mobile cellular usage growing
rapidly; combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular subscribership
about 25 per 100 persons
international: country code - 856; satellite earth station - 1
Intersputnik (Indian Ocean region) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 7, FM 14, shortwave 2 (2006)


Radios:

730,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

7 (includes 1 station relaying Vietnam Television from Hanoi) (2006)


Televisions:

52,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.la


Internet hosts:

1,015 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

100,000 (2007)


Transportation
Laos



Airports:

42 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 9
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
914 to 1,523 m: 3 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 33
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 9
under 914 m: 23 (2007)


Pipelines:

refined products 540 km (2007)


Roadways:

total: 29,811 km
paved: 4,010 km
unpaved: 25,801 km (2006)


Waterways:

4,600 km
note: primarily Mekong and tributaries; 2,900 additional km are
intermittently navigable by craft drawing less than 0.5 m (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 1 ship (1000 GRT or over) 2,370 GRT/3,110 DWT
by type: cargo 1 (2008)


Military
Laos



Military branches:

Lao People's Armed Forces (LPAF): Lao People's Army (LPA; includes
Riverine Force), Air Force (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

15 years of age for compulsory military service; minimum 18-month
conscript service obligation (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,549,774
females age 16-49: 1,570,702 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 993,162
females age 16-49: 1,052,053 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 73,973
female: 72,758 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0.5% of GDP (2006)


Military - note:

serving one of the world's least developed countries, the Lao
People's Armed Forces (LPAF) is small, poorly funded, and
ineffectively resourced; its mission focus is border and internal
security, primarily in countering ethnic Hmong insurgent groups;
together with the Lao People's Revolutionary Party and the
government, the Lao People's Army (LPA) is the third pillar of state
machinery, and as such is expected to suppress political and civil
unrest and similar national emergencies, but the LPA also has
upgraded skills to respond to avian influenza outbreaks; there is no
perceived external threat to the state and the LPA maintains strong
ties with the neighboring Vietnamese military (2008)


Transnational Issues
Laos



Disputes - international:

Southeast Asian states have enhanced border surveillance to check
the spread of avian flu; talks continue on completion of demarcation
with Thailand but disputes remain over islands in the Mekong River;
concern among Mekong Commission members that China's construction of
dams on the Mekong River will affect water levels


Illicit drugs:

estimated opium poppy cultivation in 2008 was 1,900 hectares, about
a 73% increase from 2007; estimated potential opium production in
2008 more than tripled to 17 metric tons; unsubstantiated reports of
domestic methamphetamine production; growing domestic
methamphetamine problem (2007)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Latvia

Introduction
Latvia



Background:

The name "Latvia" originates from the ancient Latgalians, one of
four eastern Baltic tribes that formed the ethnic core of the
Latvian people (ca. 8th-12th centuries A.D.). The region
subsequently came under the control of Germans, Poles, Swedes, and
finally, Russians. A Latvian republic emerged following World War I,
but it was annexed by the USSR in 1940 - an action never recognized
by the US and many other countries. Latvia reestablished its
independence in 1991 following the breakup of the Soviet Union.
Although the last Russian troops left in 1994, the status of the
Russian minority (some 30% of the population) remains of concern to
Moscow. Latvia joined both NATO and the EU in the spring of 2004.


Geography
Latvia



Location:

Eastern Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea, between Estonia and
Lithuania


Geographic coordinates:

57 00 N, 25 00 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 64,589 sq km
land: 63,589 sq km
water: 1,000 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than West Virginia


Land boundaries:

total: 1,382 km
border countries: Belarus 171 km, Estonia 343 km, Lithuania 576 km,
Russia 292 km


Coastline:

498 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 m depth or to the depth of exploitation


Climate:

maritime; wet, moderate winters


Terrain:

low plain


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Baltic Sea 0 m
highest point: Galzina Kalns 312 m


Natural resources:

peat, limestone, dolomite, amber, hydropower, wood, arable land


Land use:

arable land: 28.19%
permanent crops: 0.45%
other: 71.36% (2005)


Irrigated land:

200 sq km
note: land in Latvia is often too wet, and in need of drainage, not
irrigation; approximately 16,000 sq km or 85% of agricultural land
has been improved by drainage (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

49.9 cu km (2005)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.25 cu km/yr (55%/33%/12%)
per capita: 108 cu m/yr (2003)


Natural hazards:

NA


Environment - current issues:

Latvia's environment has benefited from a shift to service
industries after the country regained independence; the main
environmental priorities are improvement of drinking water quality
and sewage system, household, and hazardous waste management, as
well as reduction of air pollution; in 2001, Latvia closed the EU
accession negotiation chapter on environment committing to full
enforcement of EU environmental directives by 2010


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

most of the country is composed of fertile, low-lying plains, with
some hills in the east


People
Latvia



Population:

2,245,423 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 13.4% (male 154,077/female 146,825)
15-64 years: 69.7% (male 760,976/female 803,106)
65 years and over: 16.9% (male 124,658/female 255,781) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 39.9 years
male: 36.9 years
female: 43 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

-0.629% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

9.62 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

13.63 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-2.29 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.95 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.49 male(s)/female
total population: 0.86 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 8.96 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 10.85 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 6.97 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 71.88 years
male: 66.68 years
female: 77.35 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.29 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.6% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

7,600 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 500 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: intermediate
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A
vectorborne diseases: tickborne encephalitis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Latvian(s)
adjective: Latvian


Ethnic groups:

Latvian 57.7%, Russian 29.6%, Belarusian 4.1%, Ukrainian 2.7%,
Polish 2.5%, Lithuanian 1.4%, other 2% (2002)


Religions:

Lutheran 19.6%, Orthodox 15.3%, other Christian 1%, other 0.4%,
unspecified 63.7% (2006)


Languages:

Latvian (official) 58.2%, Russian 37.5%, Lithuanian and other 4.3%
(2000 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99.7%
male: 99.8%
female: 99.7% (2000 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 16 years
male: 14 years
female: 17 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

5.1% of GDP (2004)


Government
Latvia



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Latvia
conventional short form: Latvia
local long form: Latvijas Republika
local short form: Latvija
former: Latvian Soviet Socialist Republic


Government type:

parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Riga
geographic coordinates: 56 57 N, 24 06 E
time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

26 counties (singular - rajons) and 7 municipalities*: Aizkraukles
Rajons, Aluksnes Rajons, Balvu Rajons, Bauskas Rajons, Cesu Rajons,
Daugavpils*, Daugavpils Rajons, Dobeles Rajons, Gulbenes Rajons,
Jekabpils Rajons, Jelgava*, Jelgavas Rajons, Jurmala*, Kraslavas
Rajons, Kuldigas Rajons, Liepaja*, Liepajas Rajons, Limbazu Rajons,
Ludzas Rajons, Madonas Rajons, Ogres Rajons, Preilu Rajons,
Rezekne*, Rezeknes Rajons, Riga*, Rigas Rajons, Saldus Rajons, Talsu
Rajons, Tukuma Rajons, Valkas Rajons, Valmieras Rajons, Ventspils*,
Ventspils Rajons


Independence:

18 November 1918 (from Soviet Russia)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 18 November (1918); note - 18 November 1918 was
the date Latvia declared itself independent from Soviet Russia; 4
May 1990 is when it declared the renewal of independence; 21 August
1991 was the date of de facto independence from the Soviet Union


Constitution:

15 February 1922; restored to force by the Constitutional Law of the
Republic of Latvia adopted by the Supreme Council on 21 August 1991;
multiple amendments since


Legal system:

based on civil law system with traces of Socialist legal traditions
and practices; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal for Latvian citizens


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Valdis ZATLERS (since 8 July 2007)
head of government: Prime Minister Ivars GODMANIS (since 20 December
2007)
cabinet: Council of Ministers nominated by the prime minister and
appointed by Parliament
elections: president elected by Parliament for a four-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 31 May 2007 (next
to be held in 2011); prime minister appointed by the president,
confirmed by Parliament
election results: Valdis ZATLERS elected president; parliamentary
vote - Valdis ZATLERS 58, Aivars ENDZINS 39


Legislative branch:

unicameral Parliament or Saeima (100 seats; members are elected by
proportional representation from party lists by popular vote to
serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 7 October 2006 (next to be held in October 2010)
election results: percent of vote by party - TP 19.5%, ZZS 16.7%, JL
16.4%, SC 14.4%; LPP/LC 8.6%; TB/LNNK 7%; PCTVL 6%; seats by party -
TP 23, ZZS 18, JL 18, SC 17, LPP/LC 10, TB/LNNK 8, PCTVL 6; note -
seats by party as of February 2008 - TP 21, ZZS 17, SC 17, JL 14,
LPP/LC 10, TB/LNNK 5, PCTVL 6, independents 10


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (judges' appointments are confirmed by Parliament);
Constitutional Court (judges' appointments are confirmed by
Parliament)


Political parties and leaders:

First Party of Latvia/Latvia's Way or LPP/LC [Ainars SLESERS, Ivars
GODMANIS]; For Human Rights in a United Latvia or PCTVL [Jakovs
PLINERS]; For the Fatherland and Freedom/Latvian National
Independence Movement or TB/LNNK [Roberts ZILE, Maris GRINBLATS];
Harmony Center or SC [Janis URBANOVICS, Nils USAKOVS]; Latvian
Social Democratic Workers Party (Social Democrats) or LSDSP [Juris
BOJARS]; Latvian Socialist Party or LSP [Alfreds RUBIKS]; New
Democrats or JD [Maris GULBIS]; New Era Party or JL [Einars REPSE,
Krisjanis KARINS]; People's Party or TP [Aigars KALVITIS]; The Union
of Latvian Greens and Farmers Party or ZZS [Augusts BRIGMANIS]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Headquarters for the Protection of Russian Schools (SHTAB)
[Aleksandr KAZAKOV]


International organization participation:

Australia Group, BA, BIS, CBSS, CE, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EU, FAO, IAEA,
IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO,
Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NATO,
NIB, NSG, OAS (observer), OIF (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PCA, Schengen
Convention, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WEU (associate
partner), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Andrejs PILDEGOVICS
chancery: 2306 Massachusetts Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 328-2840
FAX: [1] (202) 328-2860


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Charles LARSON Jr.
embassy: 7 Raina Boulevard, Riga LV-1510
mailing address: American Embassy Riga, PSC 78, Box Riga, APO AE
09723
telephone: [371] 670-36200
FAX: [371] 678-20047


Flag description:

three horizontal bands of maroon (top), white (half-width), and
maroon


Economy
Latvia



Economy - overview:

Latvia's economy experienced GDP growth of more than 10% per year
during 2006-07. The majority of companies, banks, and real estate
have been privatized, although the state still holds sizable stakes
in a few large enterprises. Latvia officially joined the World Trade
Organization in February 1999. EU membership, a top foreign policy
goal, came in May 2004. The current account deficit - more than 22%
of GDP in 2007 - and inflation - at nearly 10% per year - remain
major concerns.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$40.05 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$27.34 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

10.3% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$17,700 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 3.3%
industry: 22%
services: 74.7% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

1.167 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 13%
industry: 19%
services: 68% (2005 est.)


Unemployment rate:

5.7% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.5%
highest 10%: 29.1% (2003)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

37.7 (2003)


Investment (gross fixed):

32.5% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $10.47 billion
expenditures: $10.29 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

7.4% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

10.1% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

6% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

10.91% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$8.196 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$5.113 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$27.56 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

grain, sugar beets, potatoes, vegetables; beef, pork, milk, eggs;
fish


Industries:

buses, vans, street and railroad cars; synthetic fibers,
agricultural machinery, fertilizers, washing machines, radios,
electronics, pharmaceuticals, processed foods, textiles; note -
dependent on imports for energy and raw materials


Industrial production growth rate:

5.4% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

4.734 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

6.424 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

1.676 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

4.671 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 29.1%
hydro: 70.9%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

35,180 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

10,070 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

45,340 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

2.04 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

2.04 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Current account balance:

-$6.231 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$8.143 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

wood and wood products, machinery and equipment, metals, textiles,
foodstuffs


Exports - partners:

Lithuania 15.1%, Estonia 13.8%, Russia 13%, Germany 8.3%, Sweden
7.4%, UK 6.5% (2007)


Imports:

$14.82 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, chemicals, fuels, vehicles


Imports - partners:

Germany 15.1%, Lithuania 13.8%, Russia 8.7%, Estonia 8%, Poland
6.9%, Finland 5.1%, Sweden 4.9% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$162 million (2004)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$5.758 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$33.53 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$8.62 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$699 million (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$2.705 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

lat (LVL)


Currency code:

LVL


Exchange rates:

lati (LVL) per US dollar - 0.5162 (2007), 0.5597 (2006), 0.5647
(2005), 0.5402 (2004), 0.5715 (2003)


Communications
Latvia



Telephones - main lines in use:

644,000 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

2.217 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: recent efforts focused on bringing competition
to the telecommunications sector; the number of fixed lines is
decreasing as wireless telephone service expands
domestic: number of telecommunications operators has grown rapidly
since the fixed-line market opened to competition in 2003; combined
fixed-line and mobile-cellular subscribership is roughly 125 per 100
persons
international: country code - 371; the Latvian network is now
connected via fiber optic cable to Estonia, Finland, and Sweden
(2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 8, FM 56, shortwave 1 (1998)


Radios:

1.76 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

44 (plus 31 repeaters) (1995)


Televisions:

1.22 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.lv


Internet hosts:

220,082 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

41 (2001)


Internet users:

1.177 million (2007)


Transportation
Latvia



Airports:

42 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 21
2,438 to 3,047 m: 7
1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
914 to 1,523 m: 2
under 914 m: 9 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 21
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 20 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 948 km; oil 82 km; refined products 415 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 2,303 km
broad gauge: 2,270 km 1.520-m gauge (257 km electrified)
narrow gauge: 33 km 0.750-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 69,675 km
paved: 69,675 km (2006)


Waterways:

300 km (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 22
by type: cargo 8, chemical tanker 3, liquefied gas 2,
passenger/cargo 5, petroleum tanker 2, roll on/roll off 2
foreign-owned: 2 (Estonia 2)
registered in other countries: 118 (Antigua and Barbuda 13, Belize
12, Cambodia 1, Cook Islands 1, Cyprus 1, Dominica 1, Jamaica 1,
Liberia 21, Malta 19, Marshall Islands 16, Panama 8, Russia 2, Saint
Kitts and Nevis 5, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 17) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Riga, Ventspils


Military
Latvia



Military branches:

National Armed Forces (Nacionalo Brunoto Speku): Ground Forces, Navy
(Latvijas Juras Speki; includes Coast Guard (Latvijas Kara Flotes)),
Latvian Air Force (Latvijas Gaisa Speki), Border Guard, Latvian Home
Guard (Latvijas Zemessardze) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service; conscription
abolished January 2007; under current law, every citizen is entitled
to serve in the armed forces for life (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 568,683
females age 16-49: 565,826 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 412,849
females age 16-49: 468,827 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 14,506
female: 13,982 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.2% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Latvia



Disputes - international:

Russia refuses to sign the 1997 boundary treaty due to Latvian
insistence on a unilateral clarificatory declaration referencing
Soviet occupation of Latvia and territorial losses; Russia demands
better Latvian treatment of ethnic Russians in Latvia; as of January
2007, ground demarcation of the boundary with Belarus was complete
and mapped with final ratification documentation in preparation; the
Latvian parliament has not ratified its 1998 maritime boundary
treaty with Lithuania, primarily due to concerns over oil
exploration rights; as a member state that forms part of the EU's
external border, Latvia has implemented the strict Schengen border
rules with Russia


Illicit drugs:

transshipment and destination point for cocaine, synthetic drugs,
opiates, and cannabis from Southwest Asia, Western Europe, Latin
America, and neighboring Balkan countries; despite improved
legislation, vulnerable to money laundering due to nascent
enforcement capabilities and comparatively weak regulation of
offshore companies and the gaming industry; CIS organized crime
(including counterfeiting, corruption, extortion, stolen cars, and
prostitution) accounts for most laundered proceeds



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Lebanon

Introduction
Lebanon



Background:

Following the capture of Syria from the Ottoman Empire by
Anglo-French forces in 1918, France received a mandate over this
territory and separated out the region of Lebanon in 1920. France
granted this area independence in 1943. A lengthy civil war
(1975-1990) devastated the country, but Lebanon has since made
progress toward rebuilding its political institutions. Under the
Ta'if Accord - the blueprint for national reconciliation - the
Lebanese established a more equitable political system, particularly
by giving Muslims a greater voice in the political process while
institutionalizing sectarian divisions in the government. Since the
end of the war, Lebanon has conducted several successful elections.
Most militias have been disbanded, and the Lebanese Armed Forces
(LAF) have extended authority over about two-thirds of the country.
Hizballah, a radical Shia organization listed by the US State
Department as a Foreign Terrorist Organization, retains its weapons.
During Lebanon's civil war, the Arab League legitimized in the Ta'if
Accord Syria's troop deployment, numbering about 16,000 based mainly
east of Beirut and in the Bekaa Valley. Israel's withdrawal from
southern Lebanon in May 2000 and the passage in October 2004 of
UNSCR 1559 - a resolution calling for Syria to withdraw from Lebanon
and end its interference in Lebanese affairs - encouraged some
Lebanese groups to demand that Syria withdraw its forces as well.
The assassination of former Prime Minister Rafiq HARIRI and 20
others in February 2005 led to massive demonstrations in Beirut
against the Syrian presence ("the Cedar Revolution"), and Syria
withdrew the remainder of its military forces in April 2005. In
May-June 2005, Lebanon held its first legislative elections since
the end of the civil war free of foreign interference, handing a
majority to the bloc led by Saad HARIRI, the slain prime minister's
son. Lebanon continues to be plagued by violence - Hizballah
kidnapped two Israeli soldiers in July 2006 leading to a 34-day
conflict with Israel. The LAF in May-September 2007 battled Sunni
extremist group Fatah al-Islam in the Nahr al-Barid Palestinian
refugee camp; and the country has witnessed a string of politically
motivated assassinations since the death of Rafiq HARIRI. Lebanese
politicians in November 2007 were unable to agree on a successor to
Emile LAHUD when he stepped down as president, creating a political
vacuum until the election of Army Commander Michel SULAYMAN in May
2008 and the formation of a new cabinet in July 2008.


Geography
Lebanon



Location:

Middle East, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between Israel and
Syria


Geographic coordinates:

33 50 N, 35 50 E


Map references:

Middle East


Area:

total: 10,400 sq km
land: 10,230 sq km
water: 170 sq km


Area - comparative:

about 0.7 times the size of Connecticut


Land boundaries:

total: 454 km
border countries: Israel 79 km, Syria 375 km


Coastline:

225 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm


Climate:

Mediterranean; mild to cool, wet winters with hot, dry summers;
Lebanon mountains experience heavy winter snows


Terrain:

narrow coastal plain; El Beqaa (Bekaa Valley) separates Lebanon and
Anti-Lebanon Mountains


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Mediterranean Sea 0 m
highest point: Qurnat as Sawda' 3,088 m


Natural resources:

limestone, iron ore, salt, water-surplus state in a water-deficit
region, arable land


Land use:

arable land: 16.35%
permanent crops: 13.75%
other: 69.9% (2005)


Irrigated land:

1,040 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

4.8 cu km (1997)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 1.38 cu km/yr (33%/1%/67%)
per capita: 385 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

dust storms, sandstorms


Environment - current issues:

deforestation; soil erosion; desertification; air pollution in
Beirut from vehicular traffic and the burning of industrial wastes;
pollution of coastal waters from raw sewage and oil spills


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone
Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification, Marine Life
Conservation


Geography - note:

Nahr el Litani is the only major river in Near East not crossing an
international boundary; rugged terrain historically helped isolate,
protect, and develop numerous factional groups based on religion,
clan, and ethnicity


People
Lebanon



Population:

3,971,941 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 26% (male 526,994/female 505,894)
15-64 years: 66.8% (male 1,275,021/female 1,380,131)
65 years and over: 7.1% (male 128,002/female 155,899) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 28.8 years
male: 27.6 years
female: 30 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.154% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

17.61 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

6.06 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.92 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.82 male(s)/female
total population: 0.94 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 22.59 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 25.08 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 19.97 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 73.41 years
male: 70.91 years
female: 76.04 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.87 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

2,800 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 200 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Lebanese (singular and plural)
adjective: Lebanese


Ethnic groups:

Arab 95%, Armenian 4%, other 1%
note: many Christian Lebanese do not identify themselves as Arab but
rather as descendents of the ancient Canaanites and prefer to be
called Phoenicians


Religions:

Muslim 59.7% (Shia, Sunni, Druze, Isma'ilite, Alawite or Nusayri),
Christian 39% (Maronite Catholic, Greek Orthodox, Melkite Catholic,
Armenian Orthodox, Syrian Catholic, Armenian Catholic, Syrian
Orthodox, Roman Catholic, Chaldean, Assyrian, Copt, Protestant),
other 1.3%
note: 17 religious sects recognized


Languages:

Arabic (official), French, English, Armenian


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 87.4%
male: 93.1%
female: 82.2% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 13 years
male: 13 years
female: 13 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

2.7% of GDP (2006)


Government
Lebanon



Country name:

conventional long form: Lebanese Republic
conventional short form: Lebanon
local long form: Al Jumhuriyah al Lubnaniyah
local short form: Lubnan
former: Greater Lebanon


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Beirut
geographic coordinates: 33 52 N, 35 30 E
time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

8 governorates (mohafazat, singular - mohafazah); Aakar,
Baalbek-Hermel, Beqaa, Beyrouth, Liban-Nord, Liban-Sud, Mont-Liban,
Nabatiye


Independence:

22 November 1943 (from League of Nations mandate under French
administration)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 22 November (1943)


Constitution:

23 May 1926; amended a number of times, most recently Charter of
Lebanese National Reconciliation (Ta'if Accord) of October 1989


Legal system:

mixture of Ottoman law, canon law, Napoleonic code, and civil law;
no judicial review of legislative acts; has not accepted compulsory
ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

21 years of age; compulsory for all males; authorized for women at
age 21 with elementary education


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Michel SULAYMAN (as of 25 May 2008)
head of government: Prime Minister Fuad SINIORA (since 30 June
2005); Deputy Prime Minister Elias MURR (since April 2005)
cabinet: Cabinet chosen by the prime minister in consultation with
the president and members of the National Assembly
elections: president elected by the National Assembly for a six-year
term (may not serve consecutive terms); election last held 25 May
2008 (next to be held in 2014); the prime minister and deputy prime
minister appointed by the president in consultation with the
National Assembly
election results: Michel SULAYMAN elected president; National
Assembly vote - 118 for, 6 abstentions, 3 invalidated


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly or Majlis Alnuwab (Arabic) or Assemblee
Nationale (French) (128 seats; members elected by popular vote on
the basis of sectarian proportional representation to serve
four-year terms)
elections: last held in four rounds on 29 May, 5, 12, 19 June 2005
(next to be held in spring 2009)
election results: percent of vote by group - NA; seats by group -
Future Movement Bloc 36; Democratic Gathering 15; Development and
Resistance Bloc 15; Free Patriotic Movement 15; Loyalty to the
Resistance 14; Qornet Shehwan 6; Lebanese Forces 5; Popular Bloc 4;
Tripoli Independent Bloc 3; Kataeb Reform Movement 2; Syrian
National Socialist Party 2; Tashnaq 2; Syrian Ba'th Party 1;
Democratic Left 1; Democratic Renewal Movement 1; Kataeb Party 1;
Nasserite Popular Movement 1; independent 4


Judicial branch:

four Courts of Cassation (three courts for civil and commercial
cases and one court for criminal cases); Constitutional Council
(called for in Ta'if Accord - rules on constitutionality of laws);
Supreme Council (hears charges against the president and prime
minister as needed)


Political parties and leaders:

14 March Coalition: Democratic Gathering Bloc [Walid JUNBLATT,
leader of Progressive Socialist Party]; Democratic Left [Ilyas
ATALLAH]; Democratic Renewal Movement [Nassib LAHUD]; Future
Movement Bloc [Sa'ad HARIRI]; Kataeb Party [Amine GEMAYEL]; Lebanese
Forces [Samir JA'JA]; Tripoli Independent Bloc
8 March Coalition: Development and Resistance Bloc [Nabih BERRI,
leader of Amal Movement]; Free Patriotic Movement [Michel AWN];
Loyalty to the Resistance Bloc [Mohammad RA'AD] (includes Hizballah
Party [Hassan NASRALLAH]); Nasserite Popular Movement [Ussama SAAD];
Popular Bloc [Elias SKAFF]; Syrian Ba'th Party [Sayez SHUKR]; Syrian
Social Nationalist Party [Ali QANSO]
Independent: Metn Bloc [Michel MURR]; Tashnaq


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Hizballah military wing
other: Palestinian militias; Maronite Christians; Sunnis and their
militias; Shi'as and their militias


International organization participation:

ABEDA, ACCT, AFESD, AMF, FAO, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol,
IOC, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, LAS, MIGA, NAM, OAS (observer), OIC, OIF,
PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNRWA, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU,
WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Antoine CHEDID
chancery: 2560 28th Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 939-6300
FAX: [1] (202) 939-6324
consulate(s) general: Detroit, New York, Los Angeles


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Michele J. SISON
embassy: Awkar, Lebanon; (Awkar facing the Municipality)
mailing address: P. O. Box 70-840, Antelias, Lebanon; from US: US
Embassy Beirut, 6070 Beirut Place, Washington, DC 20521-6070
telephone: [961] (4) 542600, 543600
FAX: [961] (4) 544136


Flag description:

three horizontal bands consisting of red (top), white (middle,
double width), and red (bottom) with a green cedar tree centered in
the white band


Economy
Lebanon



Economy - overview:

The 1975-90 civil war seriously damaged Lebanon's economic
infrastructure, cut national output by half, and all but ended
Lebanon's position as a Middle Eastern entrepot and banking hub. In
the years since, Lebanon has rebuilt much of its war-torn physical
and financial infrastructure by borrowing heavily - mostly from
domestic banks. In an attempt to reduce the ballooning national
debt, the Rafiq HARIRI government in the 1990s began an austerity
program, reining in government expenditures, increasing revenue
collection, and privatizing state enterprises, but economic and
financial reform initiatives stalled and public debt continued to
grow despite receipt of more than $2 billion in bilateral assistance
at the 2002 Paris II Donors Conference. The Israeli-Hizballah
conflict in July-August 2006 caused an estimated $3.6 billion in
infrastructure damage, and prompted international donors to pledge
nearly $1 billion in recovery and reconstruction assistance. Donors
met again in January 2007 at the Paris III Donor Conference and
pledged more than $7.5 billion to Lebanon for development projects
and budget support, conditioned on progress on Beirut's fiscal
reform and privatization program. An 18-month political stalemate
and sporadic sectarian and political violence hampered economic
activity, particularly tourism, retail sales, and investment, until
a new government was formed in July 2008.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$40.44 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$24.64 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

3.6% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$10,300 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 5.2%
industry: 19.5%
services: 75.4% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

1.5 million
note: in addition, there are as many as 1 million foreign workers
(2005 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: NA%
industry: NA%
services: NA%


Unemployment rate:

20% (2006 est.)


Population below poverty line:

28% (1999 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Investment (gross fixed):

22% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $6.178 billion
expenditures: $8.35 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

186.6% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

4.2% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

12% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

10.26% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$2.374 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$57.4 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$45.51 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

citrus, grapes, tomatoes, apples, vegetables, potatoes, olives,
tobacco; sheep, goats


Industries:

banking, tourism, food processing, wine, jewelry, cement, textiles,
mineral and chemical products, wood and furniture products, oil
refining, metal fabricating


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

8.764 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

8.161 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

929 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 97.2%
hydro: 2.8%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

106,000 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

97,590 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$2.046 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$4.077 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

authentic jewelry, inorganic chemicals, miscellaneous consumer
goods, fruit and vegetables, tobacco, construction minerals,
electric power machinery and switchgear, textile fibers, paper


Exports - partners:

Syria 25.2%, UAE 11.8%, Switzerland 8.2%, Saudi Arabia 5.6% (2007)


Imports:

$11.93 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

petroleum products, cars, medicinal products, clothing, meat and
live animals, consumer goods, paper, textile fabrics, tobacco,
electrical machinery


Imports - partners:

Syria 12.1%, Italy 8.5%, France 8.3%, US 7%, China 5.9%, Germany
5.3%, Saudi Arabia 4.8% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

of the $7.6 billion in grants and loans pledged to Lebanon at the
Paris III conference in January 2007, Beirut as of mid-December 2007
had signed agreements for $3 billion, including $1 billion in
project financing, $750 million in direct budget support, $750
million in private sector credit, and $285 million in in-kind aid;
about $500 million of the $1.7 billion pledged for direct budget
support has been disbursed to Lebanon; donors in August 2006 also
pledged nearly $1.8 billion in aid to help Lebanon recover from the
2006 Israel-Hizballah war; during the conflict, Saudi Arabia and
Kuwait provided $1.5 billion in concessional loans to the Lebanese
central bank to maintain confidence in the Lebanese currency. (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$20.55 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$31.6 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$NA


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$8.279 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

Lebanese pound (LBP)


Currency code:

LBP


Exchange rates:

Lebanese pounds (LBP) per US dollar - 1,507.5 (2007), 1,507.5
(2006), 1,507.5 (2005), 1,507.5 (2004), 1,507.5 (2003)


Communications
Lebanon



Telephones - main lines in use:

681,400 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

1.26 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: repair of the telecommunications system,
severely damaged during the civil war, now complete
domestic: two wireless networks provide good service; political
instability hampers privatization and deployment of new
technologies; combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular subscribership
50 per 100 persons
international: country code - 961; submarine cable link to Cyprus;
satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Indian Ocean and 1 Atlantic
Ocean); coaxial cable to Syria (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 20, FM 22, shortwave 4 (1998)


Radios:

2.85 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

15 (plus 5 repeaters) (1995)


Televisions:

1.18 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.lb


Internet hosts:

36,681 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

22 (2000)


Internet users:

950,000 (2006)


Transportation
Lebanon



Airports:

7 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 5
over 3,047 m: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 2 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 43 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 401 km
standard gauge: 319 km 1.435 m
narrow gauge: 82 km 1.050 m
note: rail system became unusable because of damage done during
fighting in the 1980s and in 2006 (2006)


Roadways:

total: 6,970 km (includes 170 km of expressways) (2005)


Merchant marine:

total: 33
by type: bulk carrier 3, cargo 13, carrier 11, passenger/cargo 1,
refrigerated cargo 1, roll on/roll off 2, vehicle carrier 2
foreign-owned: 4 (Greece 2, Syria 2)
registered in other countries: 55 (Barbados 1, Cambodia 8, Comoros
4, Cyprus 1, Egypt 1, Georgia 4, Honduras 1, Italy 1, North Korea 1,
Liberia 2, Malta 11, Mongolia 2, Panama 5, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines 6, Sierra Leone 1, Syria 3, Togo 1, unknown 2) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Beirut, Tripoli


Military
Lebanon



Military branches:

Lebanese Armed Forces (LAF): Army (includes Navy), Air Force (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18-30 years of age for voluntary military service; no conscription
(2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,106,879
females age 16-49: 1,122,595 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 934,828
females age 16-49: 948,327 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 32,815
female: 31,610 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

3.1% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Lebanon



Disputes - international:

lacking a treaty or other documentation describing the boundary,
portions of the Lebanon-Syria boundary are unclear with several
sections in dispute; since 2000, Lebanon has claimed Shab'a Farms
area in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights; the roughly 2,000-strong
UN Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) has been in place since 1978


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 405,425 (Palestinian refugees
(UNRWA)); 50,000-60,000 (Iraq)
IDPs: 17,000 (1975-90 civil war, Israeli invasions); 200,000
(July-August 2006 war) (2007)


Illicit drugs:

cannabis cultivation dramatically reduced to 2,500 hectares in 2002
despite continued significant cannabis consumption; opium poppy
cultivation minimal; small amounts of Latin American cocaine and
Southwest Asian heroin transit country on way to European markets
and for Middle Eastern consumption; money laundering of drug
proceeds fuels concern that extremists are benefiting from drug
trafficking



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Lesotho

Introduction
Lesotho



Background:

Basutoland was renamed the Kingdom of Lesotho upon independence from
the UK in 1966. The Basuto National Party ruled for the first two
decades. King MOSHOESHOE was exiled in 1990, but returned to Lesotho
in 1992 and was reinstated in 1995. Constitutional government was
restored in 1993 after seven years of military rule. In 1998,
violent protests and a military mutiny following a contentious
election prompted a brief but bloody intervention by South African
and Botswanan military forces under the aegis of the Southern
African Development Community. Subsequent constitutional reforms
restored relative political stability. Peaceful parliamentary
elections were held in 2002, but the National Assembly elections of
February 2007 were hotly contested and aggrieved parties continue to
periodically demonstrate their distrust of the results.


Geography
Lesotho



Location:

Southern Africa, an enclave of South Africa


Geographic coordinates:

29 30 S, 28 30 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 30,355 sq km
land: 30,355 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Maryland


Land boundaries:

total: 909 km
border countries: South Africa 909 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

temperate; cool to cold, dry winters; hot, wet summers


Terrain:

mostly highland with plateaus, hills, and mountains


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: junction of the Orange and Makhaleng Rivers 1,400 m
highest point: Thabana Ntlenyana 3,482 m


Natural resources:

water, agricultural and grazing land, diamonds, sand, clay, building
stone


Land use:

arable land: 10.87%
permanent crops: 0.13%
other: 89% (2005)


Irrigated land:

30 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

5.2 cu km (1987)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.05 cu km/yr (40%/40%/20%)
per capita: 28 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

periodic droughts


Environment - current issues:

population pressure forcing settlement in marginal areas results in
overgrazing, severe soil erosion, and soil exhaustion;
desertification; Highlands Water Project controls, stores, and
redirects water to South Africa


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection,
Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

landlocked, completely surrounded by South Africa; mountainous, more
than 80% of the country is 1,800 m above sea level


People
Lesotho



Population:

2,128,180
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 35.3% (male 377,784/female 372,840)
15-64 years: 59.8% (male 621,687/female 649,981)
65 years and over: 5% (male 42,348/female 63,540) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 21.2 years
male: 20.6 years
female: 21.8 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.129% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

24.41 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

22.33 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-0.78 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.96 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.67 male(s)/female
total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 78.59 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 83.01 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 74.03 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 40.17 years
male: 40.97 years
female: 39.34 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

3.13 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

28.9% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

320,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

29,000 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Mosotho (singular), Basotho (plural)
adjective: Basotho


Ethnic groups:

Sotho 99.7%, Europeans, Asians, and other 0.3%,


Religions:

Christian 80%, indigenous beliefs 20%


Languages:

Sesotho (southern Sotho), English (official), Zulu, Xhosa


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 84.8%
male: 74.5%
female: 94.5% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 10 years
male: 10 years
female: 10 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

13% of GDP (2006)


Government
Lesotho



Country name:

conventional long form: Kingdom of Lesotho
conventional short form: Lesotho
local long form: Kingdom of Lesotho
local short form: Lesotho
former: Basutoland


Government type:

parliamentary constitutional monarchy


Capital:

name: Maseru
geographic coordinates: 29 19 S, 27 29 E
time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

10 districts; Berea, Butha-Buthe, Leribe, Mafeteng, Maseru, Mohale's
Hoek, Mokhotlong, Qacha's Nek, Quthing, Thaba-Tseka


Independence:

4 October 1966 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 4 October (1966)


Constitution:

2 April 1993


Legal system:

based on English common law and Roman-Dutch law; judicial review of
legislative acts in High Court and Court of Appeal; accepts
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: King LETSIE III (since 7 February 1996); note - King
LETSIE III formerly occupied the throne from November 1990 to
February 1995 while his father was in exile
head of government: Prime Minister Pakalitha MOSISILI (since 23 May
1998)
cabinet: Cabinet
elections: according to the constitution, the leader of the majority
party in the Assembly automatically becomes prime minister; the
monarch is hereditary, but, under the terms of the constitution that
came into effect after the March 1993 election, the monarch is a
"living symbol of national unity" with no executive or legislative
powers; under traditional law the college of chiefs has the power to
depose the monarch, determine who is next in the line of succession,
or who shall serve as regent in the event that the successor is not
of mature age


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (33 members - 22
principal chiefs and 11 other members appointed by the ruling party)
and the Assembly (120 seats, 80 by popular vote and 40 by
proportional vote; members elected by popular vote for five-year
terms)
elections: last held 17 February 2007 (next to be held in 2012)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
LCD 61, NIP 21, ABC 17, LWP 10, ACP 4, BNP 3, other 4


Judicial branch:

High Court (chief justice appointed by the monarch acting on the
advice of the Prime Minister); Court of Appeal; Magistrate Courts;
customary or traditional court


Political parties and leaders:

Alliance of Congress Parties or ACP; All Basotho Convention or ABC
[Thomas THABANE]; Basotholand African Congress or BAC [Khauhelo
RALITAPOLE]; Basotho Congress Party or BCP [Ntsukunyane MPHANYA];
Basotho National Party or BNP [Maj. Gen. Justin Metsing LEKHANYA];
Kopanang Basotho Party or KPB [Pheelo MOSALA]; Lesotho Congress for
Democracy or LCD (the governing party) [Pakalitha MOSISILI]; Lesotho
Education Party or LEP [Thabo PITSO]; Lesotho Workers Party or LWP
[Macaefa BILLY]; Marematlou Freedom Party or MFP [Vincent MALEBO];
National Independent Party or NIP [Anthony MANYELI]; New Lesotho
Freedom Party or NLFP [Manapo MAJARA]; Popular Front for Democracy
or PFD [Lekhetho RAKUOANE]; Sefate Democratic Union or SDU [Bofihla
NKUEBE]; Social Democratic Party of SDP [Masitise SELESO]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Media Institute of Southern Africa, Lesotho chapter [Thabang
MATJAMA] (pushes for media freedom)


International organization participation:

ACP, AfDB, AU, C, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC, IPU, ISO (subscriber), ITU, MIGA,
NAM, OPCW, SACU, SADC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU,
WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Mabasia
MOHOBANE
chancery: 2511 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 797-5533 through 5536
FAX: [1] (202) 234-6815


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Robert NOLAN
embassy: 254 Kingsway, Maseru West (Consular Section)
mailing address: P. O. Box 333, Maseru 100, Lesotho
telephone: [266] 22 312666
FAX: [266] 22 310116


Flag description:

three horizontal stripes of blue (top), white, and green in the
proportions of 3:4:3; the colors represent rain, peace, and
prosperity respectively; centered in the white stripe is a black
Basotho hat representing the indigenous people; the flag was
unfurled in October 2006 to celebrate 40 years of independence


Economy
Lesotho



Economy - overview:

Small, landlocked, and mountainous, Lesotho relies on remittances
from miners employed in South Africa and customs duties from the
Southern Africa Customs Union for the majority of government
revenue. However, the government has recently strengthened its tax
system to reduce dependency on customs duties. Completion of a major
hydropower facility in January 1998 permitted the sale of water to
South Africa and generated royalties for Lesotho. Lesotho produces
about 90% of its own electrical power needs. As the number of
mineworkers has declined steadily over the past several years, a
small manufacturing base has developed based on farm products that
support the milling, canning, leather, and jute industries, as well
as a rapidly expanding apparel-assembly sector. The latter has grown
significantly mainly due to Lesotho qualifying for the trade
benefits contained in the Africa Growth and Opportunity Act. The
economy is still primarily based on subsistence agriculture,
especially livestock, although drought has decreased agricultural
activity. The extreme inequality in the distribution of income
remains a major drawback. Lesotho has signed an Interim Poverty
Reduction and Growth Facility with the IMF. In July 2007, Lesotho
signed a Millennium Challenge Account Compact with the US worth
$362.5 million.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$3.063 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$1.6 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

4.8% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$1,400 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 15.2%
industry: 45%
services: 39.7% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

838,000 (2000 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 86% of resident population engaged in subsistence
agriculture; roughly 35% of the active male wage earners work in
South Africa
industry and services: 14% (2002 est.)


Unemployment rate:

45% (2002)


Population below poverty line:

49% (1999)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 0.9%
highest 10%: 43.4% (2002 est.)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

63.2 (1995)


Investment (gross fixed):

51.9% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $779.9 million
expenditures: $696.9 million (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 April - 31 March


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

8% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

12.82% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

14.13% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$439.2 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$160.2 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

NA (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

corn, wheat, pulses, sorghum, barley; livestock


Industries:

food, beverages, textiles, apparel assembly, handicrafts,
construction, tourism


Industrial production growth rate:

12% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

200 million kWh; note - electricity supplied by South Africa (2006
est.)


Electricity - consumption:

226 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

50 million kWh; note - electricity supplied by South Africa (2007
est.)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

1,400 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

1,500 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

$49 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$853 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

manufactures 75% (clothing, footwear, road vehicles), wool and
mohair, food and live animals (2000)


Exports - partners:

US 71.5%, Belgium 25.6%, Canada 1.2% (2007)


Imports:

$1.536 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

food; building materials, vehicles, machinery, medicines, petroleum
products


Imports - partners:

China 30%, Hong Kong 29.6%, India 10%, South Korea 6.6%, Germany
6.4%, Pakistan 4.6% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$68.82 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$852 million (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$689 million (31 December 2007 est.)


Currency (code):

loti (LSL); South African rand (ZAR)


Currency code:

LSL; ZAR


Exchange rates:

maloti (LSL) per US dollar - 7.25 (2007), 6.85 (2006), 6.3593
(2005), 6.4597 (2004), 7.5648 (2003)


Communications
Lesotho



Telephones - main lines in use:

53,100 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

456,000 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: rudimentary system consisting of a modest but
growing number of landlines, a small microwave radio relay system,
and a small radiotelephone communication system; mobile-cellular
telephone system is expanding
domestic: privatized in 2001, Telecom Lesotho tasked with providing
an additional 50,000 fixed-line connections within five years, a
target not met; mobile-cellular service is expanding with a
subscribership approaching 25 per 100 persons; rural services are
scant
international: country code - 266; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 1 (1998)


Radios:

NA (2002)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (2000)


Televisions:

NA


Internet country code:

.ls


Internet hosts:

83 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

70,000 (2007)


Transportation
Lesotho



Airports:

28 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 3
over 3,047 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 25
914 to 1,523 m: 4
under 914 m: 21 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 7,091 km
paved: 1,404 km
unpaved: 5,687 km (2003)


Military
Lesotho



Military branches:

Lesotho Defense Force (LDF): Army (includes Air Wing) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service; no conscription
(2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 525,203
females age 16-49: 522,485 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 262,101
females age 16-49: 238,350 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 26,084
female: 26,006 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

2.6% of GDP (2006)


Military - note:

Lesotho's declared policy is maintenance of its independent
sovereignty and preservation of internal security; in practice,
external security is guaranteed by South Africa; restructuring of
the Lesotho Defense Force (LDF) and Ministry of Defense and Public
Service over the past five years has focused on subordinating the
defense apparatus to civilian control and restoring the LDF's
cohesion; the restructuring has considerably improved capabilities
and professionalism, but the LDF is disproportionately large for a
small, poor country; the government has outlined a reduction to a
planned 1,500-man strength, but these plans have met with vociferous
resistance from the political opposition and from inside the LDF
(2008)


Transnational Issues
Lesotho



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Liberia

Introduction
Liberia



Background:

Settlement of freed slaves from the US in what is today Liberia
began in 1822; by 1847, the Americo-Liberians were able to establish
a republic. William TUBMAN, president from 1944-71, did much to
promote foreign investment and to bridge the economic, social, and
political gaps between the descendents of the original settlers and
the inhabitants of the interior. In 1980, a military coup led by
Samuel DOE ushered in a decade of authoritarian rule. In December
1989, Charles TAYLOR launched a rebellion against DOE's regime that
led to a prolonged civil war in which DOE himself was killed. A
period of relative peace in 1997 allowed for elections that brought
TAYLOR to power, but major fighting resumed in 2000. An August 2003
peace agreement ended the war and prompted the resignation of former
president Charles TAYLOR, who faces war crimes charges in The Hague
related to his involvement in Sierra Leone's civil war. After two
years of rule by a transitional government, democratic elections in
late 2005 brought President Ellen JOHNSON SIRLEAF to power. The UN
Mission in Liberia (UNMIL) maintains a strong presence throughout
the country, but the security situation is still fragile and the
process of rebuilding the social and economic structure of this
war-torn country will take many years.


Geography
Liberia



Location:

Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean, between Cote
d'Ivoire and Sierra Leone


Geographic coordinates:

6 30 N, 9 30 W


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 111,370 sq km
land: 96,320 sq km
water: 15,050 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than Tennessee


Land boundaries:

total: 1,585 km
border countries: Guinea 563 km, Cote d'Ivoire 716 km, Sierra Leone
306 km


Coastline:

579 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; hot, humid; dry winters with hot days and cool to cold
nights; wet, cloudy summers with frequent heavy showers


Terrain:

mostly flat to rolling coastal plains rising to rolling plateau and
low mountains in northeast


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Mount Wuteve 1,380 m


Natural resources:

iron ore, timber, diamonds, gold, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 3.43%
permanent crops: 1.98%
other: 94.59% (2005)


Irrigated land:

30 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

232 cu km (1987)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.11 cu km/yr (27%/18%/55%)
per capita: 34 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

dust-laden harmattan winds blow from the Sahara (December to March)


Environment - current issues:

tropical rain forest deforestation; soil erosion; loss of
biodiversity; pollution of coastal waters from oil residue and raw
sewage


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
Timber 94, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification, Law of the
Sea, Marine Life Conservation


Geography - note:

facing the Atlantic Ocean, the coastline is characterized by
lagoons, mangrove swamps, and river-deposited sandbars; the inland
grassy plateau supports limited agriculture


People
Liberia



Population:

3,334,587 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 44% (male 734,375/female 731,287)
15-64 years: 53.3% (male 879,848/female 896,319)
65 years and over: 2.8% (male 45,175/female 47,583) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 18 years
male: 17.8 years
female: 18.2 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

3.661% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

42.92 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

21.45 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

15.14 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.95 male(s)/female
total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 143.89 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 159.5 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 127.81 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 41.13 years
male: 39.85 years
female: 42.46 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

5.87 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

5.9% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

100,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

7,200 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: malaria and yellow fever
water contact disease: schistosomiasis
aerosolized dust or soil contact disease: Lassa fever
animal contact disease: rabies (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Liberian(s)
adjective: Liberian


Ethnic groups:

indigenous African 95% (including Kpelle, Bassa, Gio, Kru, Grebo,
Mano, Krahn, Gola, Gbandi, Loma, Kissi, Vai, Dei, Bella, Mandingo,
and Mende), Americo-Liberians 2.5% (descendants of immigrants from
the US who had been slaves), Congo People 2.5% (descendants of
immigrants from the Caribbean who had been slaves)


Religions:

Christian 40%, Muslim 20%, indigenous beliefs 40%


Languages:

English 20% (official), some 20 ethnic group languages, of which a
few can be written and are used in correspondence


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 57.5%
male: 73.3%
female: 41.6% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 10 years
male: 11 years
female: 8 years (2000)


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Liberia



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Liberia
conventional short form: Liberia


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Monrovia
geographic coordinates: 6 18 N, 10 48 W
time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

15 counties; Bomi, Bong, Gbarpolu, Grand Bassa, Grand Cape Mount,
Grand Gedeh, Grand Kru, Lofa, Margibi, Maryland, Montserrado, Nimba,
River Cess, River Gee, Sinoe


Independence:

26 July 1847


National holiday:

Independence Day, 26 July (1847)


Constitution:

6 January 1986


Legal system:

dual system of statutory law based on Anglo-American common law for
the modern sector and customary law based on unwritten tribal
practices for indigenous sector; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Ellen JOHNSON SIRLEAF (since 16 January
2006); note - the President is both the chief of state and head of
government
head of government: President Ellen JOHNSON SIRLEAF (since 16
January 2006)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president and confirmed by the
Senate
elections: president elected by popular vote for a six-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 8 November 2005
(next to be held in 2011)
election results: Ellen JOHNSON SIRLEAF elected president; percent
of vote, second round - Ellen JOHNSON SIRLEAF 59.6%, George WEAH
40.4%


Legislative branch:

bicameral National Assembly consists of the Senate (30 seats; note -
number of seats changed in 11 October 2005 elections; members
elected by popular vote to serve nine-year terms) and the House of
Representatives (64 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve
six-year terms)
elections: Senate - last held 11 October 2005 (next to be held in
2011); House of Representatives - last held 11 October 2005 (next to
be held in 2011)
election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - COTOL 7, NPP 4, CDC 3, LP 3, UP 3, APD 3, other 7; House of
Representatives - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
CDC 15, LP 9, COTOL 8, UP 8, APD 5, NPP 4, other 15
note: junior senators - those who received the second most votes in
each county in the 11 October 2005 election - will only serve a
six-year first term because the Liberian constitution mandates
staggered Senate elections to ensure continuity of government; all
senators will be eligible for nine-year terms thereafter


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court


Political parties and leaders:

Alliance for Peace and Democracy or APD [Togba-na TIPOTEH];
Coalition for the Transformation of Liberia or COTOL [H. Varney
SHERMAN]; Congress for Democratic Change or CDC [George WEAH];
Liberty Party or LP [Charles BRUMSKINE]; National Patriotic Party or
NPP [Roland MASSAQUOI]; Unity Party or UP [Ellen JOHNSON SIRLEAF]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

other: demobilized former military officers


International organization participation:

ACP, AfDB, AU, ECOWAS, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ITU,
ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WCO,
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Milton Nathaniel BARNES
chancery: 5201 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20011
telephone: [1] (202) 723-0437
FAX: [1] (202) 723-0436
consulate(s) general: New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Linda THOMAS-GREENFIELD
embassy: 111 United Nations Drive, P. O. Box 98, Mamba Point, 1000
Monrovia, 10
mailing address: use embassy street address
telephone: [231] 7-705-4826
FAX: [231] 7-701-0370


Flag description:

11 equal horizontal stripes of red (top and bottom) alternating with
white; there is a white five-pointed star on a blue square in the
upper hoist-side corner; the design was based on the US flag


Economy
Liberia



Economy - overview:

Civil war and government mismanagement destroyed much of Liberia's
economy, especially the infrastructure in and around the capital,
Monrovia. Many businesses fled the country, taking capital and
expertise with them, but with the conclusion of fighting and the
installation of a democratically-elected government in 2006, some
have returned. Richly endowed with water, mineral resources,
forests, and a climate favorable to agriculture, Liberia had been a
producer and exporter of basic products - primarily raw timber and
rubber. Local manufacturing, mainly foreign owned, had been small in
scope. President JOHNSON SIRLEAF, a Harvard-trained banker and
administrator, has taken steps to reduce corruption, build support
from international donors, and encourage private investment.
Embargos on timber and diamond exports have been lifted, opening new
sources of revenue for the government. The reconstruction of
infrastructure and the raising of incomes in this ravaged economy
will largely depend on generous financial and technical assistance
from donor countries and foreign investment in key sectors, such as
infrastructure and power generation.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$1.525 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$730 million (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

9.4% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$500 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 76.9%
industry: 5.4%
services: 17.7% (2002 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 70%
industry: 8%
services: 22% (2000 est.)


Unemployment rate:

85% (2003 est.)


Population below poverty line:

80% (2000 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: NA
expenditures: NA


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

11.2% (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

15.05% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$145.6 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$49.89 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$1.157 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

rubber, coffee, cocoa, rice, cassava (tapioca), palm oil, sugarcane,
bananas; sheep, goats; timber


Industries:

rubber processing, palm oil processing, timber, diamonds


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

320 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

297.6 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

3,687 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

23.37 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

3,593 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$224 million (2007)


Exports:

$1.197 billion f.o.b. (2006)


Exports - commodities:

rubber, timber, iron, diamonds, cocoa, coffee


Exports - partners:

Malaysia 27.5%, Poland 18.5%, Germany 11.5%, US 10.5%, Spain 8.2%,
Norway 5.5% (2007)


Imports:

$7.143 billion f.o.b. (2006)


Imports - commodities:

fuels, chemicals, machinery, transportation equipment, manufactured
goods; foodstuffs


Imports - partners:

South Korea 31.4%, Singapore 22.1%, Japan 14.9%, China 10.1% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$236.2 million (2005)


Debt - external:

$3.2 billion (2005 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$NA


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Liberian dollar (LRD)


Currency code:

LRD


Exchange rates:

Liberian dollars (LRD) per US dollar - NA (2007), 59.43 (2006),
53.098 (2005), 54.906 (2004), 59.379 (2003)


Communications
Liberia



Telephones - main lines in use:

6,900 (2002)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

563,000 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: the limited services available are found almost
exclusively in the capital Monrovia; coverage extended to a number
of other towns and rural areas by four mobile-cellular network
operators
domestic: fixed line service stagnant and extremely limited;
mobile-cellular subscription base growing and teledensity
approaching 20 per 100 persons
international: country code - 231; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 0, FM 10, shortwave 2 (2007)


Radios:

790,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

4 (plus 4 repeaters) (2007)


Televisions:

70,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.lr


Internet hosts:

7 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

2 (2001)


Internet users:

1,000 (2002)


Transportation
Liberia



Airports:

53 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 2
over 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 51
1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
914 to 1,523 m: 8
under 914 m: 38 (2007)


Railways:

total: 490 km
standard gauge: 345 km 1.435-m gauge
narrow gauge: 145 km 1.067-m gauge
note: sections of railway are inoperable because of damage suffered
during the civil war (2008)


Roadways:

total: 10,600 km
paved: 657 km
unpaved: 9,943 km (2000)


Merchant marine:

total: 2,204
by type: barge carrier 3, bulk carrier 390, cargo 107, chemical
tanker 241, combination ore/oil 7, container 750, liquefied gas 84,
passenger 1, passenger/cargo 3, petroleum tanker 460, refrigerated
cargo 103, roll on/roll off 7, specialized tanker 12, vehicle
carrier 36
foreign-owned: 2,109 (Argentina 3, Belgium 4, Brazil 3, Canada 7,
China 11, Croatia 2, Cyprus 63, Denmark 12, Estonia 1, France 5,
Germany 849, Gibraltar 5, Greece 358, Hong Kong 44, India 2,
Indonesia 2, Isle of Man 5, Israel 23, Italy 41, Japan 116, South
Korea 3, Latvia 21, Lebanon 2, Mexico 2, Monaco 8, Netherlands 6,
Nigeria 2, Norway 40, Poland 13, Qatar 4, Romania 2, Russia 94,
Saudi Arabia 27, Singapore 32, Slovenia 3, Sweden 10, Switzerland
13, Taiwan 91, Turkey 7, Ukraine 25, UAE 23, UK 20, US 98, Uruguay
3, Vietnam 4) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Buchanan, Monrovia


Military
Liberia



Military branches:

Armed Forces of Liberia (AFL): Army, Navy, Air Force


Military service age and obligation:

16 years of age for voluntary military service; no conscription
(2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 729,813
females age 16-49: 741,223 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 371,287
females age 16-49: 373,265 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 30,448
female: 29,902 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.3% of GDP (2006 est.)


Transnational Issues
Liberia



Disputes - international:

although civil unrest continues to abate with the assistance of
18,000 UN Mission in Liberia (UNMIL) peacekeepers, as of January
2007, Liberian refugees still remain in Guinea, Cote d'Ivoire,
Sierra Leone, and Ghana; Liberia, in turn, shelters refugees fleeing
turmoil in Cote d'Ivoire; despite the presence of over 9,000 UN
forces (UNOCI) in Cote d'Ivoire since 2004, ethnic conflict
continues to spread into neighboring states who can no longer send
their migrant workers to Ivorian cocoa plantations; UN sanctions ban
Liberia from exporting diamonds and timber


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 12,600 (Cote d'Ivoire)
IDPs: 13,000 (civil war from 1990-2004; IDP resettlement began in
November 2004) (2007)


Illicit drugs:

transshipment point for Southeast and Southwest Asian heroin and
South American cocaine for the European and US markets; corruption,
criminal activity, arms-dealing, and diamond trade provide
significant potential for money laundering, but the lack of
well-developed financial system limits the country's utility as a
major money-laundering center



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Libya

Introduction
Libya



Background:

The Italians supplanted the Ottoman Turks in the area around Tripoli
in 1911 and did not relinquish their hold until 1943 when defeated
in World War II. Libya then passed to UN administration and achieved
independence in 1951. Following a 1969 military coup, Col. Muammar
Abu Minyar al-QADHAFI began to espouse his own political system, the
Third Universal Theory. The system is a combination of socialism and
Islam derived in part from tribal practices and is supposed to be
implemented by the Libyan people themselves in a unique form of
"direct democracy." QADHAFI has always seen himself as a
revolutionary and visionary leader. He used oil funds during the
1970s and 1980s to promote his ideology outside Libya, supporting
subversives and terrorists abroad to hasten the end of Marxism and
capitalism. In addition, beginning in 1973, he engaged in military
operations in northern Chad's Aozou Strip - to gain access to
minerals and to use as a base of influence in Chadian politics - but
was forced to retreat in 1987. UN sanctions in 1992 isolated QADHAFI
politically following the downing of Pan AM Flight 103 over
Lockerbie, Scotland. During the 1990s, QADHAFI began to rebuild his
relationships with Europe. UN sanctions were suspended in April 1999
and finally lifted in September 2003 after Libya accepted
responsibility for the Lockerbie bombing. In December 2003, Libya
announced that it had agreed to reveal and end its programs to
develop weapons of mass destruction and to renounce terrorism.
QADHAFI has made significant strides in normalizing relations with
Western nations since then. He has received various Western European
leaders as well as many working-level and commercial delegations,
and made his first trip to Western Europe in 15 years when he
traveled to Brussels in April 2004. Libya has responded in good
faith to legal cases brought against it in US courts for terrorist
acts that predate its renunciation of violence. Claims for
compensation in the Lockerbie bombing, LaBelle disco bombing, and
UTA 772 bombing cases are ongoing. The US rescinded Libya's
designation as a state sponsor of terrorism in June 2006. In late
2007, Libya was elected by the General Assembly to a nonpermanent
seat on the United Nations Security Council for the 2008-09 term.


Geography
Libya



Location:

Northern Africa, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between Egypt and
Tunisia


Geographic coordinates:

25 00 N, 17 00 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 1,759,540 sq km
land: 1,759,540 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than Alaska


Land boundaries:

total: 4,348 km
border countries: Algeria 982 km, Chad 1,055 km, Egypt 1,115 km,
Niger 354 km, Sudan 383 km, Tunisia 459 km


Coastline:

1,770 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
note: Gulf of Sidra closing line - 32 degrees, 30 minutes north
exclusive fishing zone: 62 nm


Climate:

Mediterranean along coast; dry, extreme desert interior


Terrain:

mostly barren, flat to undulating plains, plateaus, depressions


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Sabkhat Ghuzayyil -47 m
highest point: Bikku Bitti 2,267 m


Natural resources:

petroleum, natural gas, gypsum


Land use:

arable land: 1.03%
permanent crops: 0.19%
other: 98.78% (2005)


Irrigated land:

4,700 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

0.6 cu km (1997)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 4.27 cu km/yr (14%/3%/83%)
per capita: 730 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

hot, dry, dust-laden ghibli is a southern wind lasting one to four
days in spring and fall; dust storms, sandstorms


Environment - current issues:

desertification; limited natural fresh water resources; the Great
Manmade River Project, the largest water development scheme in the
world, is being built to bring water from large aquifers under the
Sahara to coastal cities


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea


Geography - note:

more than 90% of the country is desert or semidesert


People
Libya



Population:

6,173,579
note: includes 166,510 non-nationals (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 33.2% (male 1,046,400/female 1,002,148)
15-64 years: 62.6% (male 1,988,038/female 1,875,034)
65 years and over: 4.2% (male 128,386/female 133,573) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 23.6 years
male: 23.7 years
female: 23.5 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.216% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

25.62 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

3.46 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.96 male(s)/female
total population: 1.05 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 21.94 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 24.14 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 19.63 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 77.07 years
male: 74.81 years
female: 79.44 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

3.15 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.3% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

10,000 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Libyan(s)
adjective: Libyan


Ethnic groups:

Berber and Arab 97%, other 3% (includes Greeks, Maltese, Italians,
Egyptians, Pakistanis, Turks, Indians, and Tunisians)


Religions:

Sunni Muslim 97%, other 3%


Languages:

Arabic, Italian, English, all are widely understood in the major
cities


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 82.6%
male: 92.4%
female: 72% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 17 years
male: 16 years
female: 17 years (2003)


Education expenditures:

2.7% of GDP (1999)


Government
Libya



Country name:

conventional long form: Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya
conventional short form: Libya
local long form: Al Jumahiriyah al Arabiyah al Libiyah ash Shabiyah
al Ishtirakiyah al Uzma
local short form: none


Government type:

Jamahiriya (a state of the masses) in theory, governed by the
populace through local councils; in practice, an authoritarian state


Capital:

name: Tripoli
geographic coordinates: 32 53 N, 13 10 E
time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

25 municipalities (baladiyat, singular - baladiyah); Ajdabiya, Al
'Aziziyah, Al Fatih, Al Jabal al Akhdar, Al Jufrah, Al Khums, Al
Kufrah, An Nuqat al Khams, Ash Shati', Awbari, Az Zawiyah, Banghazi,
Darnah, Ghadamis, Gharyan, Misratah, Murzuq, Sabha, Sawfajjin, Surt,
Tarabulus, Tarhunah, Tubruq, Yafran, Zlitan; note - the 25
municipalities may have been replaced by 13 regions


Independence:

24 December 1951 (from UN trusteeship)


National holiday:

Revolution Day, 1 September (1969)


Constitution:

none; note - following the September 1969 military overthrow of the
Libyan government, the Revolutionary Command Council replaced the
existing constitution with the Constitutional Proclamation in
December 1969; in March 1977, Libya adopted the Declaration of the
Establishment of the People's Authority


Legal system:

based on Italian and French civil law systems and Islamic law;
separate religious courts; no constitutional provision for judicial
review of legislative acts; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal and compulsory


Executive branch:

chief of state: Revolutionary Leader Col. Muammar Abu Minyar
al-QADHAFI (since 1 September 1969); note - holds no official title,
but is de facto chief of state
head of government: Secretary of the General People's Committee
(Prime Minister) al-Baghdadi Ali al-MAHMUDI (since 5 March 2006)
cabinet: General People's Committee established by the General
People's Congress
elections: national elections are indirect through a hierarchy of
people's committees; head of government elected by the General
People's Congress; election last held March 2006 (next to be held NA)
election results: NA


Legislative branch:

unicameral General People's Congress (approximately 2,700 seats;
members elected indirectly through a hierarchy of people's
committees)


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court


Political parties and leaders:

none


Political pressure groups and leaders:

other: Arab nationalist movements; anti-QADHAFI Libyan exile
Movement; Islamic elements


International organization participation:

ABEDA, AfDB, AFESD, AMF, AMU, AU, CAEU, COMESA, FAO, G-77, IAEA,
IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO,
Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, LAS, MIGA, NAM, OAPEC, OIC,
OPCW, OPEC, PCA, UN, UN Security Council (temporary), UNAMID,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
WTO (observer)


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Ali
Suleiman AUJALI
chancery: 2600 Virginia Avenue NW, Suite 705, Washington, DC 20037
telephone: [1] (202) 944-9601
FAX: [1] (202) 944-9060


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires J.
Christopher STEVENS
embassy: Serraj Area, Tripoli
mailing address: US Embassy, 8850 Tripoli Place, Washington, DC
20521-8850
telephone: [218] 91-220-0125


Flag description:

plain green; green is the traditional color of Islam (the state
religion)


Economy
Libya



Economy - overview:

The Libyan economy depends primarily upon revenues from the oil
sector, which contribute about 95% of export earnings, about
one-quarter of GDP, and 60% of public sector wages. Substantial
revenues from the energy sector coupled with a small population give
Libya one of the highest per capita GDPs in Africa, but little of
this income flows down to the lower orders of society. Libyan
officials in the past five years have made progress on economic
reforms as part of a broader campaign to reintegrate the country
into the international fold. This effort picked up steam after UN
sanctions were lifted in September 2003 and as Libya announced in
December 2003 that it would abandon programs to build weapons of
mass destruction. Almost all US unilateral sanctions against Libya
were removed in April 2004, helping Libya attract more foreign
direct investment, mostly in the energy sector. Libyan oil and gas
licensing rounds continue to draw high international interest; the
National Oil Company set a goal of nearly doubling oil production to
3 million bbl/day by 2015. Libya faces a long road ahead in
liberalizing the socialist-oriented economy, but initial steps -
including applying for WTO membership, reducing some subsidies, and
announcing plans for privatization - are laying the groundwork for a
transition to a more market-based economy. The non-oil manufacturing
and construction sectors, which account for more than 20% of GDP,
have expanded from processing mostly agricultural products to
include the production of petrochemicals, iron, steel, and aluminum.
Climatic conditions and poor soils severely limit agricultural
output, and Libya imports about 75% of its food. Libya's primary
agricultural water source remains the Great Manmade River Project,
but significant resources are being invested in desalinization
research to meet growing water demands.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$74.72 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$57.06 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

5.8% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$12,400 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 2%
industry: 83.1%
services: 14.8% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

1.83 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 17%
industry: 23%
services: 59% (2004 est.)


Unemployment rate:

30% (2004 est.)


Population below poverty line:

7.4% (2005 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Investment (gross fixed):

8.8% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $39.88 billion
expenditures: $19.48 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

4.7% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

6.3% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

4% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

6% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$18.04 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$3.192 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

NA (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

wheat, barley, olives, dates, citrus, vegetables, peanuts, soybeans;
cattle


Industries:

petroleum, iron and steel, food processing, textiles, handicrafts,
cement


Industrial production growth rate:

5.6% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

23.98 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

20.71 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

1.845 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

278,700 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

1.455 million bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

575.3 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

41.46 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

14.8 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

6.39 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

9.9 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

1.419 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$26.38 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$42.97 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

crude oil, refined petroleum products, natural gas, chemicals


Exports - partners:

Italy 40.5%, Germany 12.2%, US 7.4%, Spain 7.4%, France 6.3% (2007)


Imports:

$14.43 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery, semi-finished goods, food, transport equipment, consumer
products


Imports - partners:

Italy 18.9%, Germany 7.7%, China 7.3%, Tunisia 6.8%, France 5.7%,
Turkey 5.4%, US 4.3% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

ODA, $24.44 million (2005 est.)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$79.6 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$4.837 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$6.286 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$3.333 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Libyan dinar (LYD)


Currency code:

LYD


Exchange rates:

Libyan dinars (LYD) per US dollar - 1.2604 (2007), 1.3108 (2006),
1.3084 (2005), 1.305 (2004), 1.2929 (2003)


Communications
Libya



Telephones - main lines in use:

852,300 (2005)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

4.5 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: telecommunications system is being modernized;
mobile cellular telephone system became operational in 1996;
combined fixed line and mobile telephone density approached 90
telephones per 100 persons in 2007
domestic: microwave radio relay, coaxial cable, cellular,
tropospheric scatter, and a domestic satellite system with 14 earth
stations
international: country code - 218; satellite earth stations - 4
Intelsat, NA Arabsat, and NA Intersputnik; submarine cables to
France and Italy; microwave radio relay to Tunisia and Egypt;
tropospheric scatter to Greece; participant in Medarabtel (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 16, FM 3, shortwave 3 (2001)


Radios:

1.35 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

12 (plus 1 repeater) (1999)


Televisions:

730,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.ly


Internet hosts:

31 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2002)


Internet users:

260,000 (2006)


Transportation
Libya



Airports:

141 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 60
over 3,047 m: 23
2,438 to 3,047 m: 6
1,524 to 2,437 m: 23
914 to 1,523 m: 6
under 914 m: 2 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 81
over 3,047 m: 5
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 15
914 to 1,523 m: 41
under 914 m: 18 (2007)


Heliports:

2 (2007)


Pipelines:

condensate 882 km; gas 3,425 km; oil 6,956 km (2007)


Railways:

0 km
note: Libya has announced plans to build seven lines totaling 2,757
km of 1.435-m gauge track (2006)


Roadways:

total: 100,024 km
paved: 57,214 km
unpaved: 42,810 km (2003)


Merchant marine:

total: 17
by type: cargo 9, liquefied gas 3, petroleum tanker 4, roll on/roll
off 1
foreign-owned: 4 (Kuwait 1, Norway 1, Syria 2)
registered in other countries: 3 (Malta 3) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

As Sidrah, Az Zuwaytinah, Marsa al Burayqah, Ra's Lanuf, Tripoli,
Zawiyah


Military
Libya



Military branches:

Armed Peoples on Duty (APOD, Army), Libyan Arab Navy, Libyan Arab
Air Force (Al-Quwwat al-Jawwiya al-Jamahiriya al-Arabia al-Libyya,
LAAF) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

17 years of age (2004)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,682,183
females age 16-49: 1,611,001 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,439,941
females age 16-49: 1,381,914 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 61,305
female: 58,788 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

3.9% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Libya



Disputes - international:

Libya has claimed more than 32,000 sq km in southeastern Algeria and
about 25,000 sq km in the Tommo region of Niger in a currently
dormant dispute; various Chadian rebels from the Aozou region reside
in southern Libya


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 8,000 (Palestinian Territories) (2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Libya is a transit and destination country for
men and women from sub-Saharan Africa and Asia trafficked for the
purposes of forced labor and commercial sexual exploitation
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Libya is on the Tier 2 Watch List
for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to address
trafficking in persons in 2007 when compared to 2006, particularly
in the area of investigating and prosecuting trafficking offenses;
Libya did not publicly release any data on investigations or
punishment of any trafficking offenses (2008)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Liechtenstein

Introduction
Liechtenstein



Background:

The Principality of Liechtenstein was established within the Holy
Roman Empire in 1719. Occupied by both French and Russian troops
during the Napoleanic wars, it became a sovereign state in 1806 and
joined the Germanic Confederation in 1815. Liechtenstein became
fully independent in 1866 when the Confederation dissolved. Until
the end of World War I, it was closely tied to Austria, but the
economic devastation caused by that conflict forced Liechtenstein to
enter into a customs and monetary union with Switzerland. Since
World War II (in which Liechtenstein remained neutral), the
country's low taxes have spurred outstanding economic growth. In
2000, shortcomings in banking regulatory oversight resulted in
concerns about the use of financial institutions for money
laundering. However, Liechtenstein implemented anti-money-laundering
legislation and a Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty with the US went
into effect in 2003.


Geography
Liechtenstein



Location:

Central Europe, between Austria and Switzerland


Geographic coordinates:

47 16 N, 9 32 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 160 sq km
land: 160 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

about 0.9 times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

total: 76 km
border countries: Austria 34.9 km, Switzerland 41.1 km


Coastline:

0 km (doubly landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

continental; cold, cloudy winters with frequent snow or rain; cool
to moderately warm, cloudy, humid summers


Terrain:

mostly mountainous (Alps) with Rhine Valley in western third


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Ruggeller Riet 430 m
highest point: Vorder-Grauspitz 2,599 m


Natural resources:

hydroelectric potential, arable land


Land use:

arable land: 25%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 75% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

NA


Environment - current issues:

NA


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer
Protection, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea


Geography - note:

along with Uzbekistan, one of only two doubly landlocked countries
in the world; variety of microclimatic variations based on elevation


People
Liechtenstein



Population:

34,498 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 16.9% (male 2,892/female 2,927)
15-64 years: 69.8% (male 11,905/female 12,180)
65 years and over: 13.3% (male 1,964/female 2,630) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 40.5 years
male: 40 years
female: 41 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.713% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

9.86 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

7.42 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

4.7 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.75 male(s)/female
total population: 0.94 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 4.52 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 6.03 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 3 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 79.95 years
male: 76.38 years
female: 83.52 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.51 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Liechtensteiner(s)
adjective: Liechtenstein


Ethnic groups:

Liechtensteiner 65.6%, other 34.4% (2000 census)


Religions:

Roman Catholic 76.2%, Protestant 7%, unknown 10.6%, other 6.2% (June
2002)


Languages:

German (official), Alemannic dialect


Literacy:

definition: age 10 and over can read and write
total population: 100%
male: 100%
female: 100%


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 15 years
male: 16 years
female: 13 years (2004)


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Liechtenstein



Country name:

conventional long form: Principality of Liechtenstein
conventional short form: Liechtenstein
local long form: Fuerstentum Liechtenstein
local short form: Liechtenstein


Government type:

constitutional monarchy


Capital:

name: Vaduz
geographic coordinates: 47 08 N, 9 31 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

11 communes (Gemeinden, singular - Gemeinde); Balzers, Eschen,
Gamprin, Mauren, Planken, Ruggell, Schaan, Schellenberg, Triesen,
Triesenberg, Vaduz


Independence:

23 January 1719 (Principality of Liechtenstein established); 12 July
1806 (independence from the Holy Roman Empire)


National holiday:

Assumption Day, 15 August


Constitution:

5 October 1921


Legal system:

local civil and penal codes based on civil law system; accepts
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Prince HANS ADAM II (since 13 November 1989, assumed
executive powers 26 August 1984); Heir Apparent Prince ALOIS, son of
the monarch (born 11 June 1968); note - on 15 August 2004, HANS ADAM
transferred the official duties of the ruling prince to ALOIS, but
HANS ADAM retains status of chief of state
head of government: Head of Government (Prime Minister) Otmar HASLER
(since 5 April 2001); Deputy Head of Government (Deputy Prime
Minister) Klaus TSCHUETSCHER (since 21 April 2005)
cabinet: Cabinet elected by the Parliament, confirmed by the monarch
elections: the monarch is hereditary; following legislative
elections, the leader of the majority party in the Landtag is
usually appointed the head of government by the monarch and the
leader of the largest minority party in the Landtag is usually
appointed the deputy head of government by the monarch if there is a
coalition government


Legislative branch:

unicameral Parliament or Landtag (25 seats; members are elected by
popular vote under proportional representation to serve four-year
terms)
elections: last held 11 and 13 March 2005 (next to be held by 2009)
election results: percent of vote by party - FBP 48.7%, VU 38.2%, FL
13%; seats by party - FBP 12, VU 10, FL 3


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court or Oberster Gerichtshof; Court of Appeal or Obergericht


Political parties and leaders:

Patriotic Union or VU [Adolf HEEB] (was Fatherland Union);
Progressive Citizens' Party or FBP [Marcus VOGT]; The Free List or
FL [Claudia HEEB-FLECK and Egon MATT]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

CE, EBRD, EFTA, IAEA, ICCt, ICRM, IFRCS, Interpol, IOC, IPU, ITSO,
ITU, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UPU, WCL, WIPO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Claudia FRITSCHE
chancery: 888 17th Street NW, Suite 1250, Washington, DC 20006
telephone: [1] (202) 331-0590
FAX: [1] (202) 331-3221


Diplomatic representation from the US:

the US does not have an embassy in Liechtenstein; the US Ambassador
to Switzerland is accredited to Liechtenstein


Flag description:

two equal horizontal bands of blue (top) and red with a gold crown
on the hoist side of the blue band


Economy
Liechtenstein



Economy - overview:

Despite its small size and limited natural resources, Liechtenstein
has developed into a prosperous, highly industrialized,
free-enterprise economy with a vital financial service sector and
living standards on a par with its large European neighbors. The
Liechtenstein economy is widely diversified with a large number of
small businesses. Low business taxes - the maximum tax rate is 20% -
and easy incorporation rules have induced many holding or so-called
letter box companies to establish nominal offices in Liechtenstein,
providing 30% of state revenues. The country participates in a
customs union with Switzerland and uses the Swiss franc as its
national currency. It imports more than 90% of its energy
requirements. Liechtenstein has been a member of the European
Economic Area (an organization serving as a bridge between the
European Free Trade Association (EFTA) and the EU) since May 1995.
The government is working to harmonize its economic policies with
those of an integrated Europe.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$1.786 billion (2001 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$36.33 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

11% (1999 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$25,000 (1999 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 6%
industry: 39%
services: 55% (2001)


Labor force:

29,500 of whom 13,900 commute from Austria, Switzerland, and Germany
to work each day (31 December 2001)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 2%
industry: 47%
services: 51% (31 December 2001)


Unemployment rate:

1.3% (September 2002)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $424.2 million
expenditures: $414.1 million (1998 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

1% (2001)


Agriculture - products:

wheat, barley, corn, potatoes; livestock, dairy products


Industries:

electronics, metal manufacturing, dental products, ceramics,
pharmaceuticals, food products, precision instruments, tourism,
optical instruments


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Exports:

$2.47 billion (1996)


Exports - commodities:

small specialty machinery, connectors for audio and video, parts for
motor vehicles, dental products, hardware, prepared foodstuffs,
electronic equipment, optical products


Exports - partners:

EU 62.6% (Germany 24.3%, Austria 9.5%, France 8.9%, Italy 6.6%, UK
4.6%), US 18.9%, Switzerland 15.7% (2006)


Imports:

$917.3 million (1996)


Imports - commodities:

agricultural products, raw materials, energy products, machinery,
metal goods, textiles, foodstuffs, motor vehicles


Imports - partners:

EU, Switzerland (2006)


Debt - external:

$0 (2001)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Swiss franc (CHF)


Currency code:

CHF


Exchange rates:

Swiss francs (CHF) per US dollar - 1.1973 (2007), 1.2539 (2006),
1.2452 (2005), 1.2435 (2004), 1.3467 (2003)


Communications
Liechtenstein



Telephones - main lines in use:

20,000 (2005)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

27,500 (2005)


Telephone system:

general assessment: automatic telephone system
domestic: NA
international: country code - 423; linked to Swiss networks by cable
and microwave radio relay


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 0, FM 4, shortwave 0 (1998)


Radios:

21,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

NA (linked to Swiss networks) (1997)


Televisions:

12,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.li


Internet hosts:

7,639 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

44 (Liechtenstein and Switzerland) (2000)


Internet users:

22,000 (2006)


Transportation
Liechtenstein



Pipelines:

gas 20 km (2007)


Railways:

9 km 1.435-m gauge (electrified)
note: belongs to the Austrian Railway System connecting Austria and
Switzerland (2006)


Roadways:

total: 380 km
paved: 380 km (2007)


Waterways:

28 km (2006)


Military
Liechtenstein



Military branches:

no regular military forces (constitutionally prohibited);
Principality of Liechtenstein National Police (Landespolizei, LP)
(2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 8,102 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 6,584 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 202
female: 222 (2008 est.)


Military - note:

Liechtenstein has no military forces, but is interested in European
security policy and is an active member of the Organization for
Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE)


Transnational Issues
Liechtenstein



Disputes - international:

none


Illicit drugs:

has strengthened money laundering controls, but money laundering
remains a concern due to Liechtenstein's sophisticated offshore
financial services sector



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Lithuania

Introduction
Lithuania



Background:

Lithuanian lands were united under MINDAUGAS in 1236; over the next
century, through alliances and conquest, Lithuania extended its
territory to include most of present-day Belarus and Ukraine. By the
end of the 14th century Lithuania was the largest state in Europe.
An alliance with Poland in 1386 led the two countries into a union
through the person of a common ruler. In 1569, Lithuania and Poland
formally united into a single dual state, the Polish-Lithuanian
Commonwealth. This entity survived until 1795, when its remnants
were partitioned by surrounding countries. Lithuania regained its
independence following World War I but was annexed by the USSR in
1940 - an action never recognized by the US and many other
countries. On 11 March 1990, Lithuania became the first of the
Soviet republics to declare its independence, but Moscow did not
recognize this proclamation until September of 1991 (following the
abortive coup in Moscow). The last Russian troops withdrew in 1993.
Lithuania subsequently restructured its economy for integration into
Western European institutions; it joined both NATO and the EU in the
spring of 2004.


Geography
Lithuania



Location:

Eastern Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea, between Latvia and Russia


Geographic coordinates:

56 00 N, 24 00 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 65,300 sq km
land: NA sq km
water: NA sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than West Virginia


Land boundaries:

total: 1,574 km
border countries: Belarus 680 km, Latvia 576 km, Poland 91 km,
Russia (Kaliningrad) 227 km


Coastline:

90 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm


Climate:

transitional, between maritime and continental; wet, moderate
winters and summers


Terrain:

lowland, many scattered small lakes, fertile soil


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Baltic Sea 0 m
highest point: Juozapines Kalnas 293.6 m


Natural resources:

peat, arable land, amber


Land use:

arable land: 44.81%
permanent crops: 0.9%
other: 54.29% (2005)


Irrigated land:

70 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

24.5 cu km (2005)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 3.33 cu km/yr (78%/15%/7%)
per capita: 971 cu m/yr (2003)


Natural hazards:

NA


Environment - current issues:

contamination of soil and groundwater with petroleum products and
chemicals at military bases


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Biodiversity, Climate
Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

fertile central plains are separated by hilly uplands that are
ancient glacial deposits


People
Lithuania



Population:

3,565,205 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 14.5% (male 264,668/female 250,997)
15-64 years: 69.5% (male 1,214,236/female 1,263,198)
65 years and over: 16% (male 197,498/female 374,608) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 39 years
male: 36.4 years
female: 41.6 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

-0.284% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

9 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

11.12 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-0.72 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.96 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.53 male(s)/female
total population: 0.89 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 6.57 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 7.86 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 5.21 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 74.67 years
male: 69.72 years
female: 79.89 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.22 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

1,300 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 200 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: intermediate
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A
vectorborne diseases: tickborne encephalitis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Lithuanian(s)
adjective: Lithuanian


Ethnic groups:

Lithuanian 83.4%, Polish 6.7%, Russian 6.3%, other or unspecified
3.6% (2001 census)


Religions:

Roman Catholic 79%, Russian Orthodox 4.1%, Protestant (including
Lutheran and Evangelical Christian Baptist) 1.9%, other or
unspecified 5.5%, none 9.5% (2001 census)


Languages:

Lithuanian (official) 82%, Russian 8%, Polish 5.6%, other and
unspecified 4.4% (2001 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99.6%
male: 99.6%
female: 99.6% (2001 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 16 years
male: 15 years
female: 17 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

5% of GDP (2005)


Government
Lithuania



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Lithuania
conventional short form: Lithuania
local long form: Lietuvos Respublika
local short form: Lietuva
former: Lithuanian Soviet Socialist Republic


Government type:

parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Vilnius
geographic coordinates: 54 41 N, 25 19 E
time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

10 counties (apskritys, singular - apskritis); Alytaus, Kauno,
Klaipedos, Marijampoles, Panevezio, Siauliu, Taurages, Telsiu,
Utenos, Vilniaus


Independence:

11 March 1990 (declared); 6 September 1991 (recognized by Soviet
Union)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 16 February (1918); note - 16 February 1918 was
the date Lithuania declared its independence from Soviet Russia and
established its statehood; 11 March 1990 was the date it declared
its independence from the Soviet Union


Constitution:

adopted 25 October 1992


Legal system:

based on civil law system; legislative acts can be appealed to the
constitutional court; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Valdas ADAMKUS (since 12 July 2004)
head of government: Prime Minister Andrius KUBILIUS (since 27
November 2008)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
nomination of the prime minister
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 13 and 27 June 2004
(next to be held in June 2009); prime minister appointed by the
president on the approval of the Parliament
election results: Valdas ADAMKUS elected president; percent of vote
- Valdas ADAMKUS 52.2%, Kazimiera PRUNSKIENE 47.8%; Andrius KUBILIUS
approved by Parliament 89-27 with 16 abstentions


Legislative branch:

unicameral Parliament or Seimas (141 seats; 71 members are elected
by popular vote, 70 are elected by proportional representation;
serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 12 and 26 October 2008 (next to be held October
2012)
election results: percent of vote by party - TS 19.7%, TPP 15.1%, TT
12.7%, LSDP 11.7%, KDP+J 9%, LRLS 5.7%, LCS 5.3%, LLRA 4.8%, LVLS
3.7%, NS 3.6%, other 8.7%; seats by faction - TS 44, LSDP 26, TPP
16, TT 15, LRLS 11, KDP+J 10, LCS 8, LLRA 3, LVLS 3, NS 1,
independent 4


Judicial branch:

Constitutional Court; Supreme Court; Court of Appeal; judges for all
courts appointed by the president


Political parties and leaders:

Civil Democracy Party or PDP [Viktor MUNTIANAS]; Coalition of Labor
Party and Youth or KDP+J [Viktor USPASKICH]; Electoral Action of
Lithuanian Poles or LLRA [Valdemar TOMASZEVSKI]; Homeland Union -
Lithuanian Christian Democrats or TS [Andrius KUBILIUS]; Lithuanian
Peasant Popular Union or LVLS [Kazimiera PRUNSKIENE]; Liberal and
Center Union or LCS [Arturas ZUOKAS]; Liberal Movement or LRLS
[Eligijus MASIULIS]; National Revival or TPP [Arunas VALINSKAS]; New
Union (Social Liberal) or NS [Arturas PAULAUSKAS]; Order and Justice
Party or TT [Rolandas PAKSAS]; Social Democratic Party or LSDP
[Gediminas KIRKILAS]; Young Lithuania and New Nationalists
[Stanislovas BUSKEVICIUS]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Europe House (promotes the EU); European Movement (promotes the EU);
Lithuanian Future Forum (promotes the EU)


International organization participation:

Australia Group, BA, BIS, CBSS, CE, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EU, FAO, IAEA,
IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NATO, NIB, NSG, OIF
(observer), OPCW, OSCE, PCA, Schengen Convention, UN, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNIDO, UNOMIG, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WEU (associate
partner), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Audrius BRUZGA
chancery: temporary address: 2300 Clarendon Boulevard, Suite 302,
Arlington, VA 22201
telephone: [1] (202) 234-5860
FAX: [1] (202) 328-0466
consulate(s) general: Chicago, New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador John A. CLOUD
embassy: Akmenu gatve 6, Vilnius, LT-03106
mailing address: American Embassy, Akmenu Gatve 6, Vilnius LT-03106
telephone: [370] (5) 266 5500
FAX: [370] (5) 266 5510


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of yellow (top), green, and red


Economy
Lithuania



Economy - overview:

Lithuania, the Baltic state that has conducted the most trade with
Russia, has grown rapidly since rebounding from the 1998 Russian
financial crisis. Unemployment fell to 3.2% in 2007 while wages
continued to grow at double digit rates, contributing to rising
inflation. Exports and imports also grew strongly, and the current
account deficit rose to nearly 15% of GDP in 2007. Trade has been
increasingly oriented toward the West. Lithuania has gained
membership in the World Trade Organization and joined the EU in May
2004. Privatization of the large, state-owned utilities is nearly
complete. Foreign government and business support have helped in the
transition from the old command economy to a market economy.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$59.98 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$38.35 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

8.8% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$16,800 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 5.3%
industry: 33.3%
services: 61.4% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

1.603 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 15.8%
industry: 28.2%
services: 56% (2004)


Unemployment rate:

3.5%
note: based on survey data, official registered unemployment of 5.7%
(2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

4% (2003)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.7%
highest 10%: 27.7% (2003)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

36 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

26.6% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $13.28 billion
expenditures: $13.75 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

17.3% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

5.7% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

4.85% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

6.86% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$11.84 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$6.917 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$25.05 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

grain, potatoes, sugar beets, flax, vegetables; beef, milk, eggs;
fish


Industries:

metal-cutting machine tools, electric motors, television sets,
refrigerators and freezers, petroleum refining, shipbuilding (small
ships), furniture making, textiles, food processing, fertilizers,
agricultural machinery, optical equipment, electronic components,
computers, amber jewelry


Industrial production growth rate:

7.4% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

11.91 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

10.4 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

7.217 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

5.846 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 16.5%
hydro: 5.7%
nuclear: 77.7%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

8,250 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

57,170 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

148,400 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

206,700 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

12 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

3.44 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

3.44 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$5.26 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$17.18 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

mineral products 23%, textiles and clothing 16%, machinery and
equipment 11%, chemicals 6%, wood and wood products 5%, foodstuffs
5% (2001)


Exports - partners:

Russia 15%, Latvia 12.9%, Germany 10.5%, Poland 6.3%, Estonia 5.8%,
UK 4.6%, Denmark 4.1%, Belarus 4% (2007)


Imports:

$22.8 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

mineral products, machinery and equipment, transport equipment,
chemicals, textiles and clothing, metals


Imports - partners:

Russia 18%, Germany 15%, Poland 10.6%, Latvia 5.5%, Netherlands 4.3%
(2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$249.7 million (2004)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$7.721 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$27.19 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$14.63 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$1.642 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$10.19 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

litas (LTL)


Currency code:

LTL


Exchange rates:

litai (LTL) per US dollar - 2.5362 (2007), 2.7498 (2006), 2.774
(2005), 2.7806 (2004), 3.0609 (2003)


Communications
Lithuania



Telephones - main lines in use:

799,400 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

4.912 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: adequate; being modernized to provide improved
international capability and better residential access
domestic: rapid expansion of mobile-cellular services has resulted
in a steady decline in the number of main line subscriptions;
mobile-cellular teledensity has increased to about 135 per 100
persons while fixed-line teledensity has dropped to 22 per 100
persons
international: country code - 370; major international connections
to Denmark, Sweden, and Norway by submarine cable for further
transmission by satellite; landline connections to Latvia and Poland
(2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 29, FM 142, shortwave 1 (2001)


Radios:

1.9 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

27 (may have as many as 100 transmitters, including repeater
stations) (2001)


Televisions:

1.7 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.lt


Internet hosts:

812,083 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

32 (2001)


Internet users:

1.333 million (2007)


Transportation
Lithuania



Airports:

87 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 30
over 3,047 m: 3
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 7
914 to 1,523 m: 2
under 914 m: 17 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 57
over 3,047 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 3
under 914 m: 53 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 1,695 km; oil 228 km; refined products 121 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 1,771 km
broad gauge: 1,749 km 1.524-m gauge (122 km electrified)
standard gauge: 22 km 1.435-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 79,984 km
paved: 70,997 km (includes 309 km of expressways)
unpaved: 8,987 km (2006)


Waterways:

441 km (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 45
by type: cargo 23, container 2, passenger/cargo 6, petroleum tanker
1, refrigerated cargo 13
foreign-owned: 6 (Denmark 5, Ukraine 1)
registered in other countries: 28 (Antigua and Barbuda 5, Cook
Islands 1, North Korea 1, Malta 1, Norway 1, Panama 7, Saint Vincent
and the Grenadines 9, unknown 3) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Klaipeda


Military
Lithuania



Military branches:

Ground Forces, Naval Force, Lithuanian Military Air Forces, National
Defense Volunteer Forces (2005)


Military service age and obligation:

19-45 years of age for compulsory military service; 18 years of age
for volunteers; 12-month conscript service obligation (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 915,187
females age 16-49: 906,097 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 678,434
females age 16-49: 749,483 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 25,907
female: 24,735 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.2% of GDP (2006; 1.23% 2007 est.)


Transnational Issues
Lithuania



Disputes - international:

Lithuania and Russia committed to demarcating their boundary in 2006
in accordance with the land and maritime treaty ratified by Russia
in May 2003 and by Lithuania in 1999; Lithuania operates a
simplified transit regime for Russian nationals traveling from the
Kaliningrad coastal exclave into Russia, while still conforming, as
a EU member state having an external border with a non-EU member, to
strict Schengen border rules; the Latvian parliament has not
ratified its 1998 maritime boundary treaty with Lithuania, primarily
due to concerns over potential hydrocarbons; as of January 2007,
ground demarcation of the boundary with Belarus was complete and
mapped with final ratification documents in preparation


Illicit drugs:

transshipment and destination point for cannabis, cocaine, ecstasy,
and opiates from Southwest Asia, Latin America, Western Europe, and
neighboring Baltic countries; growing production of high-quality
amphetamines, but limited production of cannabis, methamphetamines;
susceptible to money laundering despite changes to banking
legislation



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Luxembourg

Introduction
Luxembourg



Background:

Founded in 963, Luxembourg became a grand duchy in 1815 and an
independent state under the Netherlands. It lost more than half of
its territory to Belgium in 1839, but gained a larger measure of
autonomy. Full independence was attained in 1867. Overrun by Germany
in both World Wars, it ended its neutrality in 1948 when it entered
into the Benelux Customs Union and when it joined NATO the following
year. In 1957, Luxembourg became one of the six founding countries
of the European Economic Community (later the European Union), and
in 1999 it joined the euro currency area.


Geography
Luxembourg



Location:

Western Europe, between France and Germany


Geographic coordinates:

49 45 N, 6 10 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 2,586 sq km
land: 2,586 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Rhode Island


Land boundaries:

total: 359 km
border countries: Belgium 148 km, France 73 km, Germany 138 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

modified continental with mild winters, cool summers


Terrain:

mostly gently rolling uplands with broad, shallow valleys; uplands
to slightly mountainous in the north; steep slope down to Moselle
flood plain in the southeast


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Moselle River 133 m
highest point: Buurgplaatz 559 m


Natural resources:

iron ore (no longer exploited), arable land


Land use:

arable land: 27.42%
permanent crops: 0.69%
other: 71.89% (includes Belgium) (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Total renewable water resources:

1.6 cu km (2005)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.06 cu km/yr (42%/45%/13%)
per capita: 121 cu m/yr (1999)


Natural hazards:

NA


Environment - current issues:

air and water pollution in urban areas, soil pollution of farmland


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification


Geography - note:

landlocked; the only Grand Duchy in the world


People
Luxembourg



Population:

486,006 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 18.6% (male 46,729/female 43,889)
15-64 years: 66.6% (male 163,356/female 160,425)
65 years and over: 14.7% (male 29,206/female 42,401) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 39 years
male: 38 years
female: 40 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.188% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

11.77 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

8.43 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

8.54 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.07 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.69 male(s)/female
total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 4.62 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 4.62 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 4.62 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 79.18 years
male: 75.91 years
female: 82.67 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.78 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.2% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

fewer than 500 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 100 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Luxembourger(s)
adjective: Luxembourg


Ethnic groups:

Luxembourger 63.1%, Portuguese 13.3%, French 4.5%, Italian 4.3%,
German 2.3%, other EU 7.3%, other 5.2% (2000 census)


Religions:

Roman Catholic 87%, other (includes Protestant, Jewish, and Muslim)
13% (2000)


Languages:

Luxembourgish (national language), German (administrative language),
French (administrative language)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 100%
male: 100%
female: 100% (2000 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 14 years
male: 13 years
female: 14 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

3.4% of GDP (1999)


Government
Luxembourg



Country name:

conventional long form: Grand Duchy of Luxembourg
conventional short form: Luxembourg
local long form: Grand Duche de Luxembourg
local short form: Luxembourg


Government type:

constitutional monarchy


Capital:

name: Luxembourg
geographic coordinates: 49 36 N, 6 07 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

3 districts; Diekirch, Grevenmacher, Luxembourg


Independence:

1839 (from the Netherlands)


National holiday:

National Day (Birthday of Grand Duchess Charlotte) 23 June; note -
the actual date of birth was 23 January 1896, but the festivities
were shifted by five months to allow observance during a more
favorable time of year


Constitution:

17 October 1868; occasional revisions


Legal system:

based on civil law system; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal and compulsory


Executive branch:

chief of state: Grand Duke HENRI (since 7 October 2000); Heir
Apparent Prince GUILLAUME (son of the monarch)
head of government: Prime Minister Jean-Claude JUNCKER (since 20
January 1995); Deputy Prime Minister Jean ASSELBORN (since 31 July
2004)
cabinet: Council of Ministers recommended by the prime minister and
appointed by the monarch
elections: the monarch is hereditary; following popular elections to
the Chamber of Deputies, the leader of the majority party or the
leader of the majority coalition is usually appointed prime minister
by the monarch; the deputy prime minister is appointed by the
monarch; they are responsible to the Chamber of Deputies
note: government coalition - CSV and LSAP


Legislative branch:

unicameral Chamber of Deputies or Chambre des Deputes (60 seats;
members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held 13 June 2004 (next to be held by June 2009)
election results: percent of vote by party - CSV 36.1%, LSAP 23.4%,
DP 16.1%, Green Party 11.6%, ADR 10%, other 2.8%; seats by party -
CSV 24, LSAP 14, DP 10, Green Party 7, ADR 5
note: there is also a Council of State that serves as an advisory
body to the Chamber of Deputies; the Council of State has 21 members
appointed by the Grand Duke on the advice of the prime minister


Judicial branch:

judicial courts and tribunals (3 Justices of the Peace, 2 district
courts, and 1 Supreme Court of Appeals); administrative courts and
tribunals (State Prosecutor's Office, administrative courts and
tribunals, and the Constitutional Court); judges for all courts are
appointed for life by the monarch


Political parties and leaders:

Alternative Democratic Reform Party or ADR [Robert MENLEN];
Christian Social People's Party or CSV [Francois BILTGEN] (also
known as Christian Social Party or PCS); Democratic Party or DP
[Claude MEISCH]; Green Party [Francois BAUSCH]; Luxembourg Socialist
Workers' Party or LSAP [Alex BODRY]; dei Lenk/la Gauche (the Left);
other minor parties


Political pressure groups and leaders:

ABBL (bankers' association); ALEBA (financial sector trade union);
Centrale Paysanne (federation of agricultural producers); CEP
(professional sector chamber); CGFP (trade union representing civil
service); Chambre de Commerce (Chamber of Commerce); Chambre des
Metiers (Chamber of Artisans); FEDIL (federation of industrialists);
Greenpeace (environment protection); LCGP (center-right trade
union); Mouvement Ecologique (protection of ecology); OGBL
(center-left trade union)


International organization participation:

ADB (nonregional members), Australia Group, Benelux, CE, EAPC, EBRD,
EIB, EMU, ESA, EU, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IEA,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO,
ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OIF, OPCW,
OSCE, PCA, Schengen Convention, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO,
UNIFIL, UNRWA, UPU, WCL, WCO, WEU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Jean-Paul SENNINGER
chancery: 2200 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 265-4171/72
FAX: [1] (202) 328-8270
consulate(s) general: New York, San Francisco


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Ann WAGNER
embassy: 22 Boulevard Emmanuel Servais, L-2535 Luxembourg City
mailing address: American Embassy Luxembourg, Unit 1410, APO AE
09126-1410 (official mail); American Embassy Luxembourg, PSC 9, Box
9500, APO AE 09123 (personal mail)
telephone: [352] 46 01 23
FAX: [352] 46 14 01


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and light blue;
similar to the flag of the Netherlands, which uses a darker blue and
is shorter; design was based on the flag of France


Economy
Luxembourg



Economy - overview:

This stable, high-income economy - benefiting from its proximity to
France, Belgium, and Germany - features solid growth, low inflation,
and low unemployment. The industrial sector, initially dominated by
steel, has become increasingly diversified to include chemicals,
rubber, and other products. Growth in the financial sector, which
now accounts for about 28% of GDP, has more than compensated for the
decline in steel. Most banks are foreign owned and have extensive
foreign dealings. Agriculture is based on small family-owned farms.
The economy depends on foreign and cross-border workers for about
60% of its labor force. Although Luxembourg, like all EU members,
suffered from the global economic slump in the early part of this
decade, the country continues to enjoy an extraordinarily high
standard of living - GDP per capita ranks second in the world, after
Qatar. After two years of strong economic growth in 2006-07, turmoil
in the world financial markets will slow Luxembourg's economy in
2008, but growth will remain above the European average.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$38.14 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$50.16 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

4.5% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$79,400 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 1%
industry: 13%
services: 86% (2005 est.)


Labor force:

205,000 of whom 121,600 are foreign cross-border workers commuting
primarily from France, Belgium, and Germany (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 1%
industry: 13%
services: 86% (2004 est.)


Unemployment rate:

4.4% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 3.5%
highest 10%: 23.8% (2000)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

26 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

20.2% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $19.78 billion
expenditures: $18.9 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

6.4% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.3% (2007 est.)


Stock of money:

NA
note: see entry for the European Union for money supply in the Euro
Area; the European Central Bank (ECB) controls monetary policy for
the 15 members of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU); individual
members of the EMU do not control the quantity of money and quasi
money circulating within their own borders


Stock of quasi money:

NA (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$357.9 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

wine, grapes, barley, oats, potatoes, wheat, fruits; dairy products,
livestock products


Industries:

banking and financial services, iron and steel, information
technology, telecommunications, cargo transportation, food
processing, chemicals, metal products, engineering, tires, glass,
aluminum, tourism


Industrial production growth rate:

1.7% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

3.01 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

6.748 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

2.887 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

6.847 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 57.3%
hydro: 25.2%
nuclear: 0%
other: 17.5% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

60,640 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

281.5 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

63,760 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

1.329 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

1.329 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

$4.921 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$18.42 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, steel products, chemicals, rubber products,
glass


Exports - partners:

Germany 21.1%, France 16.3%, Belgium 10.1%, Italy 7.4%, UK 7.1%,
Netherlands 5.4%, Spain 5% (2007)


Imports:

$23.13 billion c.i.f. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

minerals, metals, foodstuffs, quality consumer goods


Imports - partners:

Belgium 27.4%, Germany 23.8%, China 17.1%, France 9.2%, Netherlands
5% (2007)


Economic aid - donor:

ODA, $291 million (2006)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$205.5 million (2006 est.)


Debt - external:

$NA


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$NA


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$79.4 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

euro (EUR)


Currency code:

EUR


Exchange rates:

euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006), 0.8041
(2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)


Communications
Luxembourg



Telephones - main lines in use:

248,200 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

604,200 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: highly developed, completely automated and
efficient system, mainly buried cables
domestic: fixed line teledensity over 50 per 100 persons; nationwide
cellular telephone system with market for mobile-cellular phones
virtually saturated
international: country code - 352 (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 2, FM 9, shortwave 2 (1999)


Radios:

285,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

5 (1999)


Televisions:

285,000 (1998 est.)


Internet country code:

.lu


Internet hosts:

180,756 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

8 (2000)


Internet users:

345,000 (2007)


Transportation
Luxembourg



Airports:

2 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
over 3,047 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 1
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 155 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 275 km
standard gauge: 275 km 1.435-m gauge (243 km electrified) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 5,227 km
paved: 5,227 km (includes 147 km of expressways) (2004)


Waterways:

37 km (on Moselle River) (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 45
by type: bulk carrier 6, cargo 3, chemical tanker 15, container 4,
liquefied gas 1, passenger 3, passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 3,
roll on/roll off 9
foreign-owned: 44 (Belgium 7, Denmark 1, France 17, Germany 5,
Netherlands 2, UK 8, US 4)
registered in other countries: 1 (Ukraine 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Mertert


Military
Luxembourg



Military branches:

Army (2007)


Military service age and obligation:

17-25 years of age for male and female voluntary military service;
soldiers under 18 are not deployed into combat or with peacekeeping
missions; no conscription; Luxembourg citizen or EU citizen with
3-year residence in Luxembourg (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 116,305
females age 16-49: 114,566 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 95,152
females age 16-49: 93,792 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 3,066
female: 2,909 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0.9% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Luxembourg



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Macau

Introduction
Macau



Background:

Colonized by the Portuguese in the 16th century, Macau was the first
European settlement in the Far East. Pursuant to an agreement signed
by China and Portugal on 13 April 1987, Macau became the Macau
Special Administrative Region (SAR) of China on 20 December 1999. In
this agreement, China promised that, under its "one country, two
systems" formula, China's socialist economic system would not be
practiced in Macau, and that Macau would enjoy a high degree of
autonomy in all matters except foreign and defense affairs for the
next 50 years.


Geography
Macau



Location:

Eastern Asia, bordering the South China Sea and China


Geographic coordinates:

22 10 N, 113 33 E


Map references:

Southeast Asia


Area:

total: 28.2 sq km
land: 28.2 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

less than one-sixth the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

total: 0.34 km
regional border: China 0.34 km


Coastline:

41 km


Maritime claims:

not specified


Climate:

subtropical; marine with cool winters, warm summers


Terrain:

generally flat


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: South China Sea 0 m
highest point: Coloane Alto 172.4 m


Natural resources:

NEGL


Land use:

arable land: 0%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 100% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

typhoons


Environment - current issues:

NA


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Marine Dumping (associate member), Ship Pollution
(associate member)


Geography - note:

essentially urban; an area of land reclaimed from the sea measuring
5.2 sq km and known as Cotai now connects the islands of Coloane and
Taipa; the island area is connected to the mainland peninsula by
three bridges


People
Macau



Population:

545,674 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 16.5% (male 47,935/female 42,301)
15-64 years: 75.8% (male 193,571/female 220,108)
65 years and over: 7.7% (male 19,340/female 22,419) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 35 years
male: 35.6 years
female: 34.5 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

3.148% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

8.69 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

3.43 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

26.21 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.13 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.88 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.86 male(s)/female
total population: 0.92 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 3.23 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 3.39 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 3.07 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 84.33 years
male: 81.36 years
female: 87.45 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

0.9 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Chinese
adjective: Chinese


Ethnic groups:

Chinese 94.3%, other 5.7% (includes Macanese (mixed Portuguese and
Asian ancestry)) (2006 census)


Religions:

Buddhist 50%, Roman Catholic 15%, none and other 35% (1997 est.)


Languages:

Cantonese 85.7%, Hokkien 4%, Mandarin 3.2%, other Chinese dialects
2.7%, English 1.5%, Tagalog 1.3%, other 1.6% (2001 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 91.3%
male: 95.3%
female: 87.8% (2001 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 15 years
male: 16 years
female: 14 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

2.4% of GDP (2005)


Government
Macau



Country name:

conventional long form: Macau Special Administrative Region
conventional short form: Macau
local long form: Aomen Tebie Xingzhengqu (Chinese); Regiao
Administrativa Especial de Macau (Portuguese)
local short form: Aomen (Chinese); Macau (Portuguese)


Dependency status:

special administrative region of China


Government type:

limited democracy


Administrative divisions:

none (special administrative region of China)


Independence:

none (special administrative region of China)


National holiday:

National Day (Anniversary of the Founding of the People's Republic
of China), 1 October (1949); note - 20 December 1999 is celebrated
as Macau Special Administrative Region Establishment Day


Constitution:

Basic Law, approved on 31 March 1993 by China's National People's
Congress, is Macau's "mini-constitution"


Legal system:

based on Portuguese civil law system


Suffrage:

direct election 18 years of age for some non-executive positions,
universal for permanent residents living in Macau for the past seven
years; indirect election limited to organizations registered as
"corporate voters" (257 are currently registered) and a 300-member
Election Committee drawn from broad regional groupings, municipal
organizations, and central government bodies


Executive branch:

chief of state: President of China HU Jintao (since 15 March 2003)
head of government: Chief Executive Edmund HO Hau-wah (since 20
December 1999)
cabinet: Executive Council consists of one government secretary,
three legislators, four businessmen, one pro-Beijing unionist, and
one pro-Beijing educator
elections: chief executive chosen by a 300-member Election Committee
for a five-year term (eligible for a second term); election last
held 29 August 2004 (next to be held in 2009)
election results: Edmund HO Hau-wah reelected received 296 votes;
three members submitted blank ballots; one member was absent


Legislative branch:

unicameral Legislative Assembly (29 seats; 12 members elected by
popular vote, 10 by indirect vote, and 7 appointed by the chief
executive; to serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 25 September 2005 (next in September 2009)
election results: percent of vote - New Democratic Macau Association
18.8%, Macau United Citizens' Association 16.6%, Union for
Development 13.3%, Union for Promoting Progress 9.6%, Macau
Development Alliance 9.3%, others 32.4%; seats by political group -
New Democratic Macau Association 2, Macau United Citizens'
Association 2, Union for Development 2, Union for Promoting Progress
2, Macau Development Alliance 1, others 3; 10 seats filled by
professional and business groups; seven members appointed by chief
executive


Judicial branch:

Court of Final Appeal in Macau Special Administrative Region


Political parties and leaders:

Civil Service Union [Jose Maria Pereira COUTINHO]; Development Union
[KWAN Tsui-hang]; Macau Development Alliance [Angela LEONG On-kei];
Macau United Citizens' Association [CHAN Meng-kam]; New Democratic
Macau Association [Antonio NG Kuok-cheong]; United Forces
note: there is no political party ordinance, so there are no
registered political parties; politically active groups register as
societies or companies


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Macau Society of Tourism and Entertainment or STDM [Stanley HO];
Roman Catholic Church; Union for Democracy Development [Antonio NG
Kuok-cheong]


International organization participation:

IHO, IMF, IMO (associate), ISO (correspondent), UNESCO (associate),
UNWTO (associate), UPU, WCO, WFTU, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (special administrative region of China)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

the US has no offices in Macau; US Consulate General in Hong Kong is
accredited to Macau


Flag description:

light green with a lotus flower above a stylized bridge and water in
white, beneath an arc of five gold, five-pointed stars: one large in
center of arc and four smaller


Economy
Macau



Economy - overview:

Macau's economy has enjoyed strong growth in recent years on the
back of its expanding tourism and gaming sectors. Since opening up
its locally-controlled casino industry to foreign competition in
2001, the territory has attracted tens of billions of dollars in
foreign investment that have helped transform it into the world's
largest gaming center. In 2006, Macau's gaming revenue surpassed
that of the Las Vegas strip, and gaming-related taxes accounted for
75% of total government revenue. The expanding casino sector, and
China's decision beginning in 2002 to relax travel restrictions,
have reenergized Macau's tourism industry, which saw total visitors
grow to 27 million in 2007, up 62% in three years. Macau's strong
economic growth has put pressure its labor market prompting
businesses to look abroad to meet their staffing needs. The
resulting influx of non-resident workers, who totaled one-fifth of
the workforce in 2006, has fueled tensions among some segments of
the population. Macau's traditional manufacturing industry has been
in a slow decline. In 2006, exports of textiles and garments
generated only $1.8 billion compared to $6.9 billion in gross gaming
receipts. Macau's textile industry will continue to move to the
mainland because of the termination in 2005 of the Multi-Fiber
Agreement, which provided a near guarantee of export markets,
leaving the territory more dependent on gambling and trade-related
services to generate growth. However, the Closer Economic
Partnership Agreement (CEPA) between Macau and mainland China that
came into effect on 1 January 2004 offers many Macau-made products
tariff-free access to the mainland. Macau's currency, the Pataca, is
closely tied to the Hong Kong dollar, which is also freely accepted
in the territory.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$12.5 billion (2006)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$14.3 billion (2006)


GDP - real growth rate:

16.6% (2006)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$28,400 (2006)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 0.1%
industry: 3.9%
services: 96% (2006 est.)


Labor force:

275,000 (2006)


Labor force - by occupation:

manufacturing 11.1%, construction 11.7%, transport and
communications 6.3%, wholesale and retail trade 13.7%, restaurants
and hotels 11.3%, gambling 19.8%, public sector 7.7%, financial
services 2.6%, other services and agriculture 15.7% (2006)


Unemployment rate:

3.1% (2006)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $4.6 billion
expenditures: $3.4 billion (2006)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

7.2% (2006)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

7.81% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$1.16 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$21.91 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

NA (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

only 2% of land area is cultivated, mainly by vegetable growers;
fishing, mostly for crustaceans, is important; some of the catch is
exported to Hong Kong


Industries:

tourism, gambling, clothing, textiles, electronics, footwear, toys


Industrial production growth rate:

3.8% (3rd quarter, 2007)


Electricity - production:

1.454 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

2.984 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

1.683 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

16,570 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

13,870 bbl/day (2006)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Exports:

$2.557 billion f.o.b.; note - includes reexports (2006)


Exports - commodities:

clothing, textiles, footwear, toys, electronics, machinery and parts


Exports - partners:

US 40.6%, China 14.8%, Hong Kong 13.1%, Germany 6.4%, UK 4% (2007)


Imports:

$4.559 billion c.i.f. (2006)


Imports - commodities:

raw materials and semi-manufactured goods, consumer goods
(foodstuffs, beverages, tobacco), capital goods, mineral fuels and
oils


Imports - partners:

China 42.6%, Hong Kong 10.1%, Japan 9%, US 5.6%, Germany 4.4%,
France 4.2% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$13.7 million (2004)


Debt - external:

$0 (2006)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$6.5 billion (2006)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$1.1 billion (2006)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$413.1 million (2004)


Currency (code):

pataca (MOP)


Currency code:

MOP


Exchange rates:

patacas (MOP) per US dollar - 8.011 (2007), 8.0015 (2006), 8.011
(2005), 8.022 (2004), 8.021 (2003)


Communications
Macau



Telephones - main lines in use:

177,851 (2008)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

856,200 (2008)


Telephone system:

general assessment: fairly modern communication facilities
maintained for domestic and international services
domestic: termination of monopoly over mobile-cellular telephone
services in 2001 spurred sharp increase in subscriptions with
mobile-cellular teledensity approaching 190 per 100 persons in 2008;
fixed-line subscribership appears to have peaked and is now in
decline
international: country code - 853; landing point for the SEA-ME-WE-3
submarine cable network that provides links to Asia, the Middle
East, and Europe; HF radiotelephone communication facility;
satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean) (2008)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 0, FM 2, shortwave 0 (1998)


Radios:

160,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (2006)


Televisions:

49,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.mo


Internet hosts:

263 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

300,000 (2007)


Transportation
Macau



Airports:

1 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
over 3,047 m: 1 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 384 km
paved: 384 km (2006)


Ports and terminals:

Macau


Military
Macau



Military branches:

no regular military forces; defense is the responsibility of China
(2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 121,825 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 100,826 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 4,601
female: 4,171 (2008 est.)


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of China


Transnational Issues
Macau



Disputes - international:

none


Illicit drugs:

transshipment point for drugs going into mainland China; consumer of
opiates and amphetamines



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Macedonia

Introduction
Macedonia



Background:

Macedonia gained its independence peacefully from Yugoslavia in
1991, but Greece's objection to the new state's use of what it
considered a Hellenic name and symbols delayed international
recognition, which occurred under the provisional designation of
"the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia." In 1995, Greece lifted
a 20-month trade embargo and the two countries agreed to normalize
relations. The United States began referring to Macedonia by its
constitutional name, Republic of Macedonia, in 2004 and negotiations
continue between Greece and Macedonia to resolve the name issue.
Some ethnic Albanians, angered by perceived political and economic
inequities, launched an insurgency in 2001 that eventually won the
support of the majority of Macedonia's Albanian population and led
to the internationally-brokered Framework Agreement, which ended the
fighting by establishing a set of new laws enhancing the rights of
minorities. Fully implementating the Framework Agreement and
stimulating economic growth and development continue to be
challenges for Macedonia, although progress has been made on both
fronts over the past several years.


Geography
Macedonia



Location:

Southeastern Europe, north of Greece


Geographic coordinates:

41 50 N, 22 00 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 25,333 sq km
land: 24,856 sq km
water: 477 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than Vermont


Land boundaries:

total: 766 km
border countries: Albania 151 km, Bulgaria 148 km, Greece 246 km,
Kosovo 159 km, Serbia 62 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

warm, dry summers and autumns; relatively cold winters with heavy
snowfall


Terrain:

mountainous territory covered with deep basins and valleys; three
large lakes, each divided by a frontier line; country bisected by
the Vardar River


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Vardar River 50 m
highest point: Golem Korab (Maja e Korabit) 2,764 m


Natural resources:

low-grade iron ore, copper, lead, zinc, chromite, manganese, nickel,
tungsten, gold, silver, asbestos, gypsum, timber, arable land


Land use:

arable land: 22.01%
permanent crops: 1.79%
other: 76.2% (2005)


Irrigated land:

550 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

6.4 cu km (2001)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 2.27
per capita: 1,118 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

high seismic risks


Environment - current issues:

air pollution from metallurgical plants


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

landlocked; major transportation corridor from Western and Central
Europe to Aegean Sea and Southern Europe to Western Europe


People
Macedonia



Population:

2,061,315 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 19.5% (male 207,954/female 193,428)
15-64 years: 69.3% (male 719,708/female 708,033)
65 years and over: 11.3% (male 101,036/female 131,156) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 34.8 years
male: 33.8 years
female: 35.8 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.262% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

12 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

8.81 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-0.57 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.08 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.08 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.77 male(s)/female
total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 9.27 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 9.45 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 9.08 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 74.45 years
male: 71.95 years
female: 77.13 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.58 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

less than 0.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

fewer than 200 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 100 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Macedonian(s)
adjective: Macedonian


Ethnic groups:

Macedonian 64.2%, Albanian 25.2%, Turkish 3.9%, Roma (Gypsy) 2.7%,
Serb 1.8%, other 2.2% (2002 census)


Religions:

Macedonian Orthodox 64.7%, Muslim 33.3%, other Christian 0.37%,
other and unspecified 1.63% (2002 census)


Languages:

Macedonian 66.5%, Albanian 25.1%, Turkish 3.5%, Roma 1.9%, Serbian
1.2%, other 1.8% (2002 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 96.1%
male: 98.2%
female: 94.1% (2002 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 12 years
male: 12 years
female: 12 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

3.5% of GDP (2002)


Government
Macedonia



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Macedonia
conventional short form: Macedonia
local long form: Republika Makedonija
local short form: Makedonija
note: the provisional designation used by the UN, EU, and NATO is
the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM)
former: People's Republic of Macedonia, Socialist Republic of
Macedonia


Government type:

parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Skopje
geographic coordinates: 42 00 N, 21 26 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

84 municipalities (opstini, singular - opstina); Aerodrom (Skopje),
Aracinovo, Berovo, Bitola, Bogdanci, Bogovinje, Bosilovo, Brvenica,
Butel (Skopje), Cair (Skopje), Caska, Centar (Skopje), Centar Zupa,
Cesinovo-Oblesevo, Cucer-Sandevo, Debar, Debarca, Delcevo, Demir
Hisar, Demir Kapija, Dojran, Dolneni, Drugovo, Gazi Baba (Skopje),
Gevgelija, Gjorce Petrov (Skopje), Gostivar, Gradsko, Ilinden,
Jegunovce, Karbinci, Karpos (Skopje), Kavadarci, Kicevo, Kisela Voda
(Skopje), Kocani, Konce, Kratovo, Kriva Palanka, Krivogastani,
Krusevo, Kumanovo, Lipkovo, Lozovo, Makedonska Kamenica, Makedonski
Brod, Mavrovo i Rostusa, Mogila, Negotino, Novaci, Novo Selo, Ohrid,
Oslomej, Pehcevo, Petrovec, Plasnica, Prilep, Probistip, Radovis,
Rankovce, Resen, Rosoman, Saraj (Skopje), Sopiste, Staro Nagoricane,
Stip, Struga, Strumica, Studenicani, Suto Orizari (Skopje), Sveti
Nikole, Tearce, Tetovo, Valandovo, Vasilevo, Veles, Vevcani, Vinica,
Vranestica, Vrapciste, Zajas, Zelenikovo, Zelino, Zrnovci
note: the 10 municipalities followed by Skopje in parentheses
collectively constitute the larger Skopje Municipality


Independence:

8 September 1991 (referendum by registered voters endorsed
independence from Yugoslavia)


National holiday:

Ilinden Uprising Day, 2 August (1903); note - also known as Saint
Elijah's Day


Constitution:

adopted 17 November 1991, effective 20 November 1991; amended
November 2001 by a series of new constitutional amendments
strengthening minority rights and in 2005 with amendments related to
the judiciary


Legal system:

based on civil law system; judicial review of legislative acts; has
not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Branko CRVENKOVSKI (since 12 May 2004)
head of government: Prime Minister Nikola GRUEVSKI (since 26 August
2006)
cabinet: Council of Ministers elected by the majority vote of all
the deputies in the Assembly; note - current cabinet formed by the
government coalition parties VMRO/DPMNE, NSDP, PDSh/DPA, and several
small parties
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); two-round election last held 14 April
and 28 April 2004 (next to be held by April 2009); prime minister
elected by the Assembly following legislative elections
election results: Branko CRVENKOVSKI elected president on
second-round ballot; percent of vote - Branko CRVENKOVSKI 62.7%,
Sasko KEDEV 37.3%


Legislative branch:

unicameral Assembly or Sobranie (120 seats; members elected by
popular vote from party lists based on the percentage of the overall
vote the parties gain in each of six electoral districts; serve
four-year terms)
elections: last held 1 June 2008 (next to be held by July 2012)
election results: percent of vote by party - For a Better Macedonia
48.80%, Sun-Coalition for Europe 23.65%, Democratic Union for
Integration 12.77%, Democratic Party of Albanians 8.48%, Party for
European Future 1.47%, other 4.83%; seats by party - For a Better
Macedonia 63, Sun-Coalition for Europe 27, Democratic Union for
Integration 18, Democratic Party of Albanians 11, Party for European
Future 1


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court - the Assembly appoints the judges; Constitutional
Court - the Assembly appoints the judges; Republican Judicial
Council - the Assembly appoints the judges


Political parties and leaders:

Democratic Alliance [Pavle TRAJANOV]; Democratic League of Bosniaks
[Rafet MUMINOVIC]; Democratic Party of Albanians or PDSh/DPA [Menduh
THACI]; Democratic Party of Serbs [Ivan STOILJKOVIC]; Democratic
Party of Turks [Kenan HASIPI]; Democratic Renewal of Macedonia
[Liljana POPOVSKA]; Democratic Union of Albanians or BDSh [BardYL
MAHMUTI]; Democratic Union of Vlachs for Macedonia [Mitko KOSTOV];
Democratic Union for Integration or BDI/DUI [Ali AHMETI]; For a
Better Macedonia coalition [Nikola GRUEVSKI] (includes VMRO-DPMNE,
SP, Democratic Union, Democratic Renewal of Macedonia, Democratic
Party of Turks, Democratic Party of Serbs, SR, and smaller parties);
Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization-Democratic Party for
Macedonian National Unity or VMRO-DPMNE [Nikola GRUEVSKI]; Internal
Macedonian Revolutionary Organization-People's Party or VMRO-Narodna
[Gjorgji TRENDAFILOV]; League for Democracy [Gjorgi MARJANOVIC];
Liberal Democratic Party or LDP [Jovan MANSIEVSKI]; Liberal Party
[Stojan ANDOV]; National Alternative [Harun ALIU]; National
Democratic Union or BDK [Hysni SHAQIR]; New Social Democratic Party
or NSDP [Tito PETKOVSKI]; Party for Democratic Prosperity or PPD/PDP
[Abduljhadi VEJSELI]; Party for European Future or PEI [Fijat
CANOSKI]; Party of Free Democrats or PSD [Ljubco JORDANOVSKI];
Social Democratic Alliance of Macedonia or SDSM [Zoran ZAEV (until
May 2009)]; Socialist Party of Macedonia or SP [Ljubisav
IVANOV-ZINGO]; Sun-Coalition for Europe [Radmila SKERINSKA]
(includes SDSM, NSDP, LDP, Liberal Party and smaller parties); Union
of Romas or SR [Shaban SALIU]; United Party for Emancipation or OPE
[Nezdet MUSTAFA]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Federation of Free Trade Unions [Svetlana PETROVIC]; Federation of
Trade Unions [Vanco MURATOVSKI]; Trade Union of Education, Science
and Culture [Dojcin CVETANOSKI]; World Macedonian Congress [Todor
PETROV]


International organization participation:

BIS, CE, CEI, EAPC, EBRD, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), IPU,
ISO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, OIF, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, PFP, SECI, UN, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Zoran JOLEVSKI
chancery: 2129 Wyoming Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 667-0501
FAX: [1] (202) 667-2131
consulate(s) general: New York, Southfield (Michigan); note -
consulate general in Chicago is due to open in 2008


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Philip T. REEKER
embassy: Bul. Ilindenska bb, 1000 Skopje
mailing address: American Embassy Skopje, US Department of State,
7120 Skopje Place, Washington, DC 20521-7120 (pouch)
telephone: [389] 2 311-6180
FAX: [389] 2 311-7103


Flag description:

a yellow sun with eight broadening rays extending to the edges of
the red field


Economy
Macedonia



Economy - overview:

At independence in September 1991, Macedonia was the least developed
of the Yugoslav republics, producing a mere 5% of the total federal
output of goods and services. The collapse of Yugoslavia ended
transfer payments from the central government and eliminated
advantages from inclusion in a de facto free trade area. An absence
of infrastructure, UN sanctions on the downsized Yugoslavia, and a
Greek economic embargo over a dispute about the country's
constitutional name and flag hindered economic growth until 1996.
GDP subsequently rose each year through 2000. In 2001, during a
civil conflict, the economy shrank 4.5% because of decreased trade,
intermittent border closures, increased deficit spending on security
needs, and investor uncertainty. Growth barely recovered in 2002 to
0.9%, then averaged 4% per year during 2003-07, expanding to 5.1% in
2007. Macedonia has maintained macroeconomic stability with low
inflation, but it has so far lagged the region in attracting foreign
investment and creating jobs, despite making extensive fiscal and
business sector reforms. Official unemployment remains high at
nearly 35%, but may be overstated based on the existence of an
extensive gray market, estimated to be more than 20 percent of GDP,
that is not captured by official statistics.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$17.35 billion
note: Macedonia has a large informal sector (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$7.497 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

5.1% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$8,400 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 11.9%
industry: 28.2%
services: 59.9% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

890,000 (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 19.6%
industry: 30.4%
services: 50% (September 2007)


Unemployment rate:

34.9% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

29.8% (2006)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.4%
highest 10%: 29.6% (2003)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

39 (2003)


Investment (gross fixed):

17.7% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $2.508 billion
expenditures: $2.487 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

30.8% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.3% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

6.5% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

10.23% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$1.173 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$3.127 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$2.924 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

grapes, wine, tobacco, vegetables, fruits; milk, eggs


Industries:

food processing, beverages, textiles, chemicals, iron, steel,
cement, energy, pharmaceuticals


Industrial production growth rate:

1.7% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

6.051 billion kWh (2007)


Electricity - consumption:

8.651 billion kWh (2007)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

2.6 billion kWh (2007)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 83.7%
hydro: 16.3%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007)


Oil - consumption:

19,590 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

6,768 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

26,470 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

100 million cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

102.8 million cu m (2007)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$249 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$3.35 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

food, beverages, tobacco; textiles, miscellaneous manufactures, iron
and steel


Exports - partners:

Serbia and Montenegro 19.2%, Germany 14.5%, Greece 10.4%, Italy
10.1%, Bulgaria 9.8%, Croatia 5.6%, Belgium 5%, Spain 5% (2007)


Imports:

$4.977 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, automobiles, chemicals, fuels, food products


Imports - partners:

Germany 13.2%, Greece 12.9%, Bulgaria 9.6%, Serbia and Montenegro
7.7%, Turkey 6.6%, Italy 6.3%, Slovenia 5% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$230.3 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$2.265 billion (31 December 2007)


Debt - external:

$3.967 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$2.405 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$646 million (2005)


Currency (code):

Macedonian denar (MKD)


Currency code:

MKD


Exchange rates:

Macedonian denars (MKD) per US dollar - 44.732 (2007), 48.978
(2006), 48.92 (2005), 49.41 (2004), 54.322 (2003)


Communications
Macedonia



Telephones - main lines in use:

463,600 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

1.518 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: competition from the mobile-cellular segment of
the telecommunications market has led to a drop in fixed-line
telephone subscriptions
domestic: combined fixed line and mobile telephone density
approaching 100 per 100 persons
international: country code - 389 (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 29, FM 63, shortwave 0 (2007)


Radios:

410,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

52 (2007)


Televisions:

510,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.mk


Internet hosts:

36,905 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

6 (2000)


Internet users:

685,000 (2007)


Transportation
Macedonia



Airports:

17 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 10
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
under 914 m: 8 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 7
914 to 1,523 m: 3
under 914 m: 4 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 268 km; oil 120 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 699 km
standard gauge: 699 km 1.435-m gauge (223 km electrified) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 13,182 km (includes 208 km of expressways) (2002)


Military
Macedonia



Military branches:

Army of the Republic of Macedonia (ARM): Joint Operational Command,
with subordinate Air Wing (Makedonsko Voeno Vozduhoplovstvo, MVV),
Special Operations Regiment (2007)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service (2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 532,856
females age 16-49: 513,684 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 444,693
females age 16-49: 428,341 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 15,141
female: 14,434 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

6% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Macedonia



Disputes - international:

Kosovo and Macedonia completed demarcation of their boundary in
September 2008; Greece continues to reject the use of the name
Macedonia or Republic of Macedonia


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

IDPs: fewer than 1,000 (ethnic conflict in 2001) (2007)


Illicit drugs:

major transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin and hashish;
minor transit point for South American cocaine destined for Europe;
although not a financial center and most criminal activity is
thought to be domestic, money laundering is a problem due to a
mostly cash-based economy and weak enforcement



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Madagascar

Introduction
Madagascar



Background:

Formerly an independent kingdom, Madagascar became a French colony
in 1896 but regained independence in 1960. During 1992-93, free
presidential and National Assembly elections were held ending 17
years of single-party rule. In 1997, in the second presidential
race, Didier RATSIRAKA, the leader during the 1970s and 1980s, was
returned to the presidency. The 2001 presidential election was
contested between the followers of Didier RATSIRAKA and Marc
RAVALOMANANA, nearly causing secession of half of the country. In
April 2002, the High Constitutional Court announced RAVALOMANANA the
winner. RAVALOMANANA is now in his second term following a landslide
victory in the generally free and fair presidential elections of
2006.


Geography
Madagascar



Location:

Southern Africa, island in the Indian Ocean, east of Mozambique


Geographic coordinates:

20 00 S, 47 00 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 587,040 sq km
land: 581,540 sq km
water: 5,500 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly less than twice the size of Arizona


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

4,828 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm or 100 nm from the 2,500-m isobath


Climate:

tropical along coast, temperate inland, arid in south


Terrain:

narrow coastal plain, high plateau and mountains in center


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
highest point: Maromokotro 2,876 m


Natural resources:

graphite, chromite, coal, bauxite, salt, quartz, tar sands,
semiprecious stones, mica, fish, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 5.03%
permanent crops: 1.02%
other: 93.95% (2005)


Irrigated land:

10,860 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

337 cu km (1984)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 14.96 cu km/yr (3%/2%/96%)
per capita: 804 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

periodic cyclones, drought, and locust infestation


Environment - current issues:

soil erosion results from deforestation and overgrazing;
desertification; surface water contaminated with raw sewage and
other organic wastes; several endangered species of flora and fauna
unique to the island


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

world's fourth-largest island; strategic location along Mozambique
Channel


People
Madagascar



Population:

20,042,552 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 43.7% (male 4,408,615/female 4,349,862)
15-64 years: 53.2% (male 5,298,805/female 5,371,764)
65 years and over: 3.1% (male 275,087/female 338,418) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 17.9 years
male: 17.7 years
female: 18.1 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

3.005% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

38.38 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

8.32 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.81 male(s)/female
total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 55.59 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 60.59 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 50.45 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 62.52 years
male: 60.58 years
female: 64.51 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

5.19 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

1.7% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

140,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

7,500 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: chikungunya, malaria, and plague
water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Malagasy (singular and plural)
adjective: Malagasy


Ethnic groups:

Malayo-Indonesian (Merina and related Betsileo), Cotiers (mixed
African, Malayo-Indonesian, and Arab ancestry - Betsimisaraka,
Tsimihety, Antaisaka, Sakalava), French, Indian, Creole, Comoran


Religions:

indigenous beliefs 52%, Christian 41%, Muslim 7%


Languages:

English (official), French (official), Malagasy (official)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 68.9%
male: 75.5%
female: 62.5% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 9 years
male: 10 years
female: 9 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

3.1% of GDP (2006)


Government
Madagascar



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Madagascar
conventional short form: Madagascar
local long form: Republique de Madagascar/Repoblikan'i Madagasikara
local short form: Madagascar/Madagasikara
former: Malagasy Republic


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Antananarivo
geographic coordinates: 18 55 S, 47 31 E
time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

6 provinces (faritany); Antananarivo, Antsiranana, Fianarantsoa,
Mahajanga, Toamasina, Toliara


Independence:

26 June 1960 (from France)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 26 June (1960)


Constitution:

19 August 1992 by national referendum


Legal system:

based on French civil law system and traditional Malagasy law;
accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Marc RAVALOMANANA (since 6 May 2002)
head of government: Prime Minister Charles RABEMANANJARA (25 January
2007)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 3 December 2006
(next to be held in December 2011); prime minister appointed by the
president
election results: percent of vote - Marc RAVALOMANANA 54.8%, Jean
LAHINIRIKO 11.7%, Roland RATSIRAKA 10.1%, Herizo RAZAFIMAHALEO 9.1%,
Norbert RATSIRAHONANA 4.2%, Ny Hasina ANDRIAMANJATO 4.2%, Elia
RAVELOMANANTSOA 2.6%, Pety RAKOTONIAINA 1.7%, other 1.6%


Legislative branch:

bicameral legislature consists of a National Assembly or Assemblee
Nationale (127 seats - reduced from 160 seats by an April 2007
national referendum; members are elected by popular vote to serve
four-year terms) and a Senate or Senat (100 seats; two-thirds of the
seats filled by regional assemblies; the remaining one-third of
seats appointed by the president; to serve four-year terms)
elections: National Assembly - last held 23 September 2007 (next to
be held in 2011)
election results: National Assembly - percent of vote by party - NA;
seats by party - TIM 106, LEADER/Fanilo 1, independents 20


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court or Cour Supreme; High Constitutional Court or Haute
Cour Constitutionnelle


Political parties and leaders:

Association for the Rebirth of Madagascar or AREMA [Pierrot
RAJAONARIVELO]; Democratic Party for Union in Madagascar or PSDUM
[Jean LAHINIRIKO]; Economic Liberalism and Democratic Action for
National Recovery or LEADER/Fanilo [Herizo RAZAFIMAHALEO]; Fihaonana
Party or FP [Guy-Willy RAZANAMASY]; I Love Madagascar or TIM [Marc
RAVALOMANANA]; Renewal of the Social Democratic Party or RPSD
[Evariste MARSON]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Committee for the Defense of Truth and Justice or KMMR; Committee
for National Reconciliation or CRN [Albert Zafy]; National Council
of Christian Churches or FFKM


International organization participation:

ACP, AfDB, AU, COMESA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM,
IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, InOC, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU,
ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OIF, OPCW, SADC,
UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO,
WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Jocelyn Bertin RADIFERA
chancery: 2374 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 265-5525, 5526
FAX: [1] (202) 265-3034
consulate(s) general: New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador R. Niels MARQUARDT
embassy: 14-16 Rue Rainitovo, Antsahavola, Antananarivo 101
mailing address: B. P. 620, Antsahavola, Antananarivo
telephone: [261] (20) 22-212-57, 22-212-73, 22-209-56
FAX: [261] (20) 22-345-39


Flag description:

two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and green with a vertical
white band of the same width on hoist side


Economy
Madagascar



Economy - overview:

Having discarded past socialist economic policies, Madagascar has
since the mid 1990s followed a World Bank- and IMF-led policy of
privatization and liberalization. This strategy placed the country
on a slow and steady growth path from an extremely low level.
Agriculture, including fishing and forestry, is a mainstay of the
economy, accounting for more than one-fourth of GDP and employing
80% of the population. Exports of apparel have boomed in recent
years primarily due to duty-free access to the US. Deforestation and
erosion, aggravated by the use of firewood as the primary source of
fuel, are serious concerns. President RAVALOMANANA has worked
aggressively to revive the economy following the 2002 political
crisis, which triggered a 12% drop in GDP that year. Poverty
reduction and combating corruption will be the centerpieces of
economic policy for the next few years.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$18.44 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$7.322 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6.3% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$900 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 26.8%
industry: 15.8%
services: 57.4% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

7.3 million (2000)


Population below poverty line:

50% (2004 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 1.9%
highest 10%: 36.6% (2001)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

47.5 (2001)


Investment (gross fixed):

25.9% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $1.319 billion
expenditures: $1.629 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

10.3% (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

45% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$1.161 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$577.4 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$767.5 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

coffee, vanilla, sugarcane, cloves, cocoa, rice, cassava (tapioca),
beans, bananas, peanuts; livestock products


Industries:

meat processing, seafood, soap, breweries, tanneries, sugar,
textiles, glassware, cement, automobile assembly plant, paper,
petroleum, tourism


Industrial production growth rate:

6% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

1.045 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

907 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 36.1%
hydro: 63.9%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

92.18 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

18,190 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

480.3 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

17,100 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$890 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$986 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

coffee, vanilla, shellfish, sugar, cotton cloth, chromite, petroleum
products


Exports - partners:

France 31.8%, US 26.6%, Germany 6.1%, UK 4.9%, Italy 4.4% (2007)


Imports:

$1.918 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

capital goods, petroleum, consumer goods, food


Imports - partners:

France 13.6%, China 13%, Iran 8.1%, South Africa 6.4%, Hong Kong
4.9%, Mauritius 4.8% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$929.2 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$846.7 million (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$4.6 billion (2002)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$NA


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

ariary (MGA)


Currency code:

MGF


Exchange rates:

Malagasy ariary (MGA) per US dollar - 1,880 (2007), 2,161.4 (2006),
2,003 (2005), 1,868.9 (2004), 1,238.3 (2003)


Communications
Madagascar



Telephones - main lines in use:

133,900 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

2.218 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: system is above average for the region;
Antananarivo's main telephone exchange modernized in the late 1990s,
but the rest of the analogue-based telephone system is poorly
developed; have added more than 50,000 new fixed lines since 2005
domestic: combined fixed-line and mobile telephone density only
about 12 per 100 persons
international: country code - 261; submarine cable to Bahrain;
satellite earth stations - 2 (1 Intelsat - Indian Ocean, 1
Intersputnik - Atlantic Ocean region) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 2 (plus a number of repeater stations), FM 9, shortwave 6 (2001)


Radios:

3.05 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (plus 36 repeaters) (2001)


Televisions:

325,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.mg


Internet hosts:

11,016 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

2 (2000)


Internet users:

110,000 (2006)


Transportation
Madagascar



Airports:

104 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 27
over 3,047 m: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 6
914 to 1,523 m: 17
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 77
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 41
under 914 m: 34 (2007)


Railways:

total: 854 km
narrow gauge: 854 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 65,663 km
paved: 7,617 km
unpaved: 58,046 km (2003)


Waterways:

600 km (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 8
by type: cargo 4, passenger/cargo 2, petroleum tanker 2 (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Antsiranana, Mahajanga, Toamasina, Toliara


Military
Madagascar



Military branches:

People's Armed Forces: Intervention Force, Development Force, and
Aeronaval Force (navy and air); National Gendarmerie


Military service age and obligation:

18-25 years of age for male-only compulsory military service;
18-month conscript service obligation (either military or equivalent
civil service); 20-30 years of age for National Gendarmerie recruits
(35 years of age for those with military experience) (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 4,443,341
females age 16-49: 4,441,124 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 3,034,600
females age 16-49: 3,271,732 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 230,088
female: 229,932 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Madagascar



Disputes - international:

claims Bassas da India, Europa Island, Glorioso Islands, and Juan de
Nova Island (all administered by France)


Illicit drugs:

illicit producer of cannabis (cultivated and wild varieties) used
mostly for domestic consumption; transshipment point for heroin



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Malawi

Introduction
Malawi



Background:

Established in 1891, the British protectorate of Nyasaland became
the independent nation of Malawi in 1964. After three decades of
one-party rule under President Hastings Kamuzu BANDA the country
held multiparty elections in 1994, under a provisional constitution
that came into full effect the following year. Current President
Bingu wa MUTHARIKA, elected in May 2004 after a failed attempt by
the previous president to amend the constitution to permit another
term, struggled to assert his authority against his predecessor and
subsequently started his own party, the Democratic Progressive Party
(DPP) in 2005. As president, MUTHARIKA has overseen substantial
economic improvement but because of political deadlock in the
legislature, his minority party has been unable to pass significant
legislation, and anti-corruption measures have stalled. Population
growth, increasing pressure on agricultural lands, corruption, and
the spread of HIV/AIDS pose major problems for Malawi.


Geography
Malawi



Location:

Southern Africa, east of Zambia


Geographic coordinates:

13 30 S, 34 00 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 118,480 sq km
land: 94,080 sq km
water: 24,400 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Pennsylvania


Land boundaries:

total: 2,881 km
border countries: Mozambique 1,569 km, Tanzania 475 km, Zambia 837 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

sub-tropical; rainy season (November to May); dry season (May to
November)


Terrain:

narrow elongated plateau with rolling plains, rounded hills, some
mountains


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: junction of the Shire River and international boundary
with Mozambique 37 m
highest point: Sapitwa (Mount Mlanje) 3,002 m


Natural resources:

limestone, arable land, hydropower, unexploited deposits of uranium,
coal, and bauxite


Land use:

arable land: 20.68%
permanent crops: 1.18%
other: 78.14% (2005)


Irrigated land:

560 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

17.3 cu km (2001)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 1.01 cu km/yr (15%/5%/80%)
per capita: 78 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

NA


Environment - current issues:

deforestation; land degradation; water pollution from agricultural
runoff, sewage, industrial wastes; siltation of spawning grounds
endangers fish populations


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone
Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea


Geography - note:

landlocked; Lake Nyasa, some 580 km long, is the country's most
prominent physical feature


People
Malawi



Population:

13,931,831
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 46% (male 3,208,112/female 3,194,600)
15-64 years: 51.4% (male 3,592,073/female 3,563,840)
65 years and over: 2.7% (male 159,450/female 213,756) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 16.8 years
male: 16.7 years
female: 16.8 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.39% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

41.79 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

17.89 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.01 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.75 male(s)/female
total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 90.55 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 94.69 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 86.35 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 43.45 years
male: 43.74 years
female: 43.15 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

5.67 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

14.2% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

900,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

84,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: malaria and plague
water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Malawian(s)
adjective: Malawian


Ethnic groups:

Chewa, Nyanja, Tumbuka, Yao, Lomwe, Sena, Tonga, Ngoni, Ngonde,
Asian, European


Religions:

Christian 79.9%, Muslim 12.8%, other 3%, none 4.3% (1998 census)


Languages:

Chichewa 57.2% (official), Chinyanja 12.8%, Chiyao 10.1%, Chitumbuka
9.5%, Chisena 2.7%, Chilomwe 2.4%, Chitonga 1.7%, other 3.6% (1998
census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 62.7%
male: 76.1%
female: 49.8% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 9 years
male: 10 years
female: 9 years (2004)


Education expenditures:

5.8% of GDP (2003)


Government
Malawi



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Malawi
conventional short form: Malawi
local long form: Dziko la Malawi
local short form: Malawi
former: British Central African Protectorate, Nyasaland
Protectorate, Nyasaland


Government type:

multiparty democracy


Capital:

name: Lilongwe
geographic coordinates: 13 59 S, 33 47 E
time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

28 districts; Balaka, Blantyre, Chikwawa, Chiradzulu, Chitipa,
Dedza, Dowa, Karonga, Kasungu, Likoma, Lilongwe, Machinga (Kasupe),
Mangochi, Mchinji, Mulanje, Mwanza, Mzimba, Neno, Ntcheu, Nkhata
Bay, Nkhotakota, Nsanje, Ntchisi, Phalombe, Rumphi, Salima, Thyolo,
Zomba


Independence:

6 July 1964 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day (Republic Day), 6 July (1964)


Constitution:

18 May 1994


Legal system:

based on English common law and customary law; judicial review of
legislative acts in the Supreme Court of Appeal; accepts compulsory
ICJ jurisdiction with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Bingu wa MUTHARIKA (since 24 May 2004);
note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government
head of government: President Bingu wa MUTHARIKA (since 24 May 2004)
cabinet: 46-member Cabinet named by the president
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 20 May 2004 (next
to be held in May 2009)
election results: Bingu wa MUTHARIKA elected president; percent of
vote - Bingu wa MUTHARIKA 35.9%, John TEMBO 27.1%, Gwandaguluwe
CHAKUAMBA 25.7%, Brown MPINGANJIRA 8.7%, Justin MALEWEZI 2.5%


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly (193 seats; members elected by popular
vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held 20 May 2004 (next to be held in May 2009)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
MCP 56, UDF 49, independents 39, RP 15, others 25, vacancies 8


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court of Appeal; High Court (chief justice appointed by the
president, puisne judges appointed on the advice of the Judicial
Service Commission); magistrate's courts


Political parties and leaders:

Alliance for Democracy or AFORD; Congress for National Unity or
CONU; Democratic Progressive Party or DPP [Bingu wa MUTHARIKA];
Malawi Congress Party or MCP [John TEMBO]; Malawi Democratic Party
or MDP [Kampelo KALUA]; Malawi Forum for Unity and Development or
MAFUNDE [George MNESA]; Mgwirizano Coalition or MC [Gwandaguluwe
CHAKUAMBA] (coalition of MAFUNDE, MDP, MGODE, NUP, PETRA, PPM, RP);
Movement for Genuine Democratic Change or MGODE [Sam Kandodo BANDA];
National Democratic Alliance or NDA [Brown MPINGANJIRA]; National
Unity Party or NUP [Harry CHIUME]; People's Progressive Movement or
PPM [Aleke BANDA]; People's Transformation Movement or PETRA [Kamuzu
CHIBAMBO]; Republican Party or RP [Gwandaguluwe CHAKUAMBA]; United
Democratic Front or UDF [Bakili MULUZI]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Agri-Ecology Media (agriculture and environmental group); Malawi Law
Society (human rights); Malawi Movement for the Restoration of
Democracy or MMRD (acts to restore and maintain democracy); National
Democratic Alliance or NDA (acts to restore democracy; Public
Affairs Committee or PAC (promotes democracy, development, peace and
unity)


International organization participation:

ACP, AfDB, AU, C, COMESA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM,
IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, ISO
(correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MONUC, NAM, OPCW, SADC, UN,
UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO,
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Hawa NDILOWE
chancery: 1029 Vermont Avenue, Suite 1000, Washington, DC 20005
telephone: [1] (202) 721-0270
FAX: [1] (202) 721-0288


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Peter W. BODDE
embassy: 16 Jomo Kenyatta Road, Lilongwe 3
mailing address: P. O. Box 30016, Lilongwe 3, Malawi
telephone: [265] (1) 773 166
FAX: [265] (1) 770 471


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of black (top), red, and green with a
radiant, rising, red sun centered in the black band


Government - note:

no party has a majority in the fractured legislature


Economy
Malawi



Economy - overview:

Landlocked Malawi ranks among the world's most densely populated and
least developed countries. The economy is predominately agricultural
with about 85% of the population living in rural areas. Agriculture
accounts for more than one-third of GDP and 90% of export revenues.
The performance of the tobacco sector is key to short-term growth as
tobacco accounts for more than half of exports. The economy depends
on substantial inflows of economic assistance from the IMF, the
World Bank, and individual donor nations. In December 2007, the US
granted Malawi eligibility status to receive financial support
within the Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) initiative. Malawi
will now begin a consultative process to develop a five-year program
before funding can begin. In 2006, Malawi was approved for relief
under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) program. The
government faces many challenges including developing a market
economy, improving educational facilities, facing up to
environmental problems, dealing with the rapidly growing problem of
HIV/AIDS, and satisfying foreign donors that fiscal discipline is
being tightened. In 2005, President MUTHARIKA championed an
anticorruption campaign. Since 2005 President MUTHARIKA'S government
has exhibited improved financial discipline under the guidance of
Finance Minister Goodall GONDWE and signed a three year Poverty
Reduction and Growth Facility worth $56 million with the IMF.
Improved relations with the IMF lead other international donors to
resume aid as well.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$10.59 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$3.538 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

8% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$800 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 37.8%
industry: 18.1%
services: 44.1% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

4.5 million (2001 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 90%
industry and services: 10% (2003 est.)


Unemployment rate:

NA%


Population below poverty line:

53% (2004)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.9%
highest 10%: 31.8% (2004)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

39 (2004)


Investment (gross fixed):

8.4% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $1.128 billion
expenditures: $1.185 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 July - 30 June


Public debt:

50.6% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

7.9% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

15% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

27.72% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$361.5 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$250.4 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$406.2 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

tobacco, sugarcane, cotton, tea, corn, potatoes, cassava (tapioca),
sorghum, pulses, groundnuts, Macadamia nuts; cattle, goats


Industries:

tobacco, tea, sugar, sawmill products, cement, consumer goods


Industrial production growth rate:

4.4% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

1.13 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

1.051 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 3.3%
hydro: 96.7%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

6,160 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

6,788 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$318 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$604 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

tobacco 53%, tea, sugar, cotton, coffee, peanuts, wood products,
apparel


Exports - partners:

Germany 11.7%, South Africa 10%, Egypt 9.2%, Zimbabwe 8.2%, US 7.3%,
Russia 5.8%, Netherlands 4.5% (2007)


Imports:

$866 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

food, petroleum products, semimanufactures, consumer goods,
transportation equipment


Imports - partners:

South Africa 36.1%, India 8.5%, Tanzania 6.1%, US 6.1%, China 4.9%
(2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$575.3 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$217.2 million (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$894 million (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$NA


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Malawian kwacha (MWK)


Currency code:

MWK


Exchange rates:

Malawian kwachas (MWK) per US dollar - 141.12 (2007), 135.96 (2006),
108.894 (2005), 108.898 (2004), 97.433 (2003)


Communications
Malawi



Telephones - main lines in use:

175,200 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

1.051 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: rudimentary
domestic: fixed-line subscribership about 1 per 100 persons;
privatization of Malawi Telecommunications (MTL), a necessary step
in bringing improvement to telecommunications services, completed in
2006; mobile-cellular services are expanding but cellular network
coverage is limited and is based around the main urban areas; mobile
cellular subscribership roughly 8 per 100 persons
international: country code - 265; satellite earth stations - 2
Intelsat (1 Indian Ocean, 1 Atlantic Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 9, FM 5 (plus 15 repeater stations), shortwave 2 (plus one
shortwave station on standby) (2001)


Radios:

2.6 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (2001)


Televisions:

NA


Internet country code:

.mw


Internet hosts:

107 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

3 (2002)


Internet users:

139,500 (2007)


Transportation
Malawi



Airports:

39 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 6
over 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 4 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 33
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 16
under 914 m: 16 (2007)


Railways:

total: 797 km
narrow gauge: 797 km 1.067-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 15,451 km
paved: 6,956 km
unpaved: 8,495 km (2003)


Waterways:

700 km (on Lake Nyasa (Lake Malawi) and Shire River) (2007)


Ports and terminals:

Chipoka, Monkey Bay, Nkhata Bay, Nkhotakota, Chilumba


Military
Malawi



Military branches:

Malawi Armed Forces: Army (includes Air Wing and Naval Detachment)
(2007)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service; standard obligation
is 2 years of active duty and 5 years of reserve service (2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 3,050,444 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,676,117 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 168,858
female: 168,946 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.3% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Malawi



Disputes - international:

disputes with Tanzania over the boundary in Lake Nyasa (Lake Malawi)
and the meandering Songwe River remain dormant



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Malaysia

Introduction
Malaysia



Background:

During the late 18th and 19th centuries, Great Britain established
colonies and protectorates in the area of current Malaysia; these
were occupied by Japan from 1942 to 1945. In 1948, the British-ruled
territories on the Malay Peninsula formed the Federation of Malaya,
which became independent in 1957. Malaysia was formed in 1963 when
the former British colonies of Singapore and the East Malaysian
states of Sabah and Sarawak on the northern coast of Borneo joined
the Federation. The first several years of the country's history
were marred by a Communist insurgency, Indonesian confrontation with
Malaysia, Philippine claims to Sabah, and Singapore's secession from
the Federation in 1965. During the 22-year term of Prime Minister
MAHATHIR bin Mohamad (1981-2003), Malaysia was successful in
diversifying its economy from dependence on exports of raw materials
to expansion in manufacturing, services, and tourism.


Geography
Malaysia



Location:

Southeastern Asia, peninsula bordering Thailand and northern
one-third of the island of Borneo, bordering Indonesia, Brunei, and
the South China Sea, south of Vietnam


Geographic coordinates:

2 30 N, 112 30 E


Map references:

Southeast Asia


Area:

total: 329,750 sq km
land: 328,550 sq km
water: 1,200 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than New Mexico


Land boundaries:

total: 2,669 km
border countries: Brunei 381 km, Indonesia 1,782 km, Thailand 506 km


Coastline:

4,675 km (Peninsular Malaysia 2,068 km, East Malaysia 2,607 km)


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 m depth or to the depth of exploitation;
specified boundary in the South China Sea


Climate:

tropical; annual southwest (April to October) and northeast (October
to February) monsoons


Terrain:

coastal plains rising to hills and mountains


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
highest point: Gunung Kinabalu 4,100 m


Natural resources:

tin, petroleum, timber, copper, iron ore, natural gas, bauxite


Land use:

arable land: 5.46%
permanent crops: 17.54%
other: 77% (2005)


Irrigated land:

3,650 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

580 cu km (1999)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 9.02 cu km/yr (17%/21%/62%)
per capita: 356 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

flooding, landslides, forest fires


Environment - current issues:

air pollution from industrial and vehicular emissions; water
pollution from raw sewage; deforestation; smoke/haze from Indonesian
forest fires


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands


Geography - note:

strategic location along Strait of Malacca and southern South China
Sea


People
Malaysia



Population:

25,274,132 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 31.8% (male 4,135,013/female 3,898,761)
15-64 years: 63.3% (male 8,026,755/female 7,965,332)
65 years and over: 4.9% (male 548,970/female 699,302) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 24.6 years
male: 24 years
female: 25.3 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.742% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

22.44 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

5.02 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA
note: does not reflect net flow of an unknown number of illegal
immigrants from other countries in the region (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.07 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.78 male(s)/female
total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 16.39 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 18.92 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 13.68 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 73.03 years
male: 70.32 years
female: 75.94 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.98 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.4% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

52,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

2,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria
note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Malaysian(s)
adjective: Malaysian


Ethnic groups:

Malay 50.4%, Chinese 23.7%, indigenous 11%, Indian 7.1%, others 7.8%
(2004 est.)


Religions:

Muslim 60.4%, Buddhist 19.2%, Christian 9.1%, Hindu 6.3%,
Confucianism, Taoism, other traditional Chinese religions 2.6%,
other or unknown 1.5%, none 0.8% (2000 census)


Languages:

Bahasa Malaysia (official), English, Chinese (Cantonese, Mandarin,
Hokkien, Hakka, Hainan, Foochow), Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam, Panjabi,
Thai
note: in East Malaysia there are several indigenous languages; most
widely spoken are Iban and Kadazan


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 88.7%
male: 92%
female: 85.4% (2000 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 13 years
male: 12 years
female: 13 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

6.2% of GDP (2004)


Government
Malaysia



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Malaysia
local long form: none
local short form: Malaysia
former: Federation of Malaya


Government type:

constitutional monarchy
note: nominally headed by paramount ruler and a bicameral Parliament
consisting of a nonelected upper house and an elected lower house;
all Peninsular Malaysian states have hereditary rulers except Melaka
and Pulau Pinang (Penang); those two states along with Sabah and
Sarawak in East Malaysia have governors appointed by government;
powers of state governments are limited by federal constitution;
under terms of federation, Sabah and Sarawak retain certain
constitutional prerogatives (e.g., right to maintain their own
immigration controls); Sabah holds 25 seats in House of
Representatives; Sarawak has 31 seats


Capital:

name: Kuala Lumpur
geographic coordinates: 3 10 N, 101 42 E
time difference: UTC+8 (13 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
note: Putrajaya is referred to as administrative center not capital;
Parliament meets in Kuala Lumpur


Administrative divisions:

13 states (negeri-negeri, singular - negeri) Johor, Kedah, Kelantan,
Melaka, Negeri Sembilan, Pahang, Perak, Perlis, Pulau Pinang, Sabah,
Sarawak, Selangor, and Terengganu; and one federal territory
(wilayah persekutuan) with three components, city of Kuala Lumpur,
Labuan, and Putrajaya


Independence:

31 August 1957 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day/Malaysia Day, 31 August (1957)


Constitution:

31 August 1957 (amended many times, latest in 2007)


Legal system:

based on English common law; judicial review of legislative acts in
the Supreme Court at request of supreme head of the federation;
Islamic law is applied to Muslims in matters of family law and
religion; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

21 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Paramount Ruler Sultan MIZAN Zainal Abidin (since 13
December 2006)
head of government: Prime Minister ABDULLAH bin Ahmad Badawi (since
31 October 2003); Deputy Prime Minister Mohamed NAJIB bin Abdul
Razak (since 7 January 2004)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the prime minister from among the
members of Parliament with consent of the paramount ruler
elections: paramount ruler elected by and from the hereditary rulers
of nine of the states for five-year terms; election last held on 3
November 2006 (next to be held in 2011); prime minister designated
from among the members of the House of Representatives; following
legislative elections, the leader of the party that wins a plurality
of seats in the House of Representatives becomes prime minister
election results: Sultan MIZAN Zainal Abidin elected paramount ruler
note: position of paramount ruler is primarily ceremonial; in
practice, selection is based on principle of rotation among rulers
of states


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament or Parlimen consists of Senate or Dewan Negara
(70 seats; 44 appointed by paramount ruler, 26 elected by 13 state
legislatures; to serve three-year terms with limit of two terms) and
House of Representatives or Dewan Rakyat (222 seats; members elected
by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: House of Representatives - last held on 8 March 2008
(next to be held by March 2013)
election results: House of Representatives - percent of vote - BN
coalition 50.3%, opposition parties 46.8%, others 2.9%; seats - BN
coalition 140, opposition parties 82


Judicial branch:

Civil Courts include Federal Court, Court of Appeal, High Court of
Malaya on peninsula Malaysia, and High Court of Sabah and Sarawak in
states of Borneo (judges appointed by the paramount ruler on the
advice of the prime minister); Sharia Courts include Sharia Appeal
Court, Sharia High Court, and Sharia Subordinate Courts at
state-level and deal with religious and family matters such as
custody, divorce, and inheritance, only for Muslims; decisions of
Sharia courts cannot be appealed to civil courts


Political parties and leaders:

National Front (Barisan Nasional) or BN (ruling coalition) consists
of the following parties: Gerakan Rakyat Malaysia Party or PGRM [KOH
Tsu Koon - acting]; Liberal Democratic Party (Parti Liberal
Demokratik - Sabah) or LDP [LIEW Vui Keong]; Malaysian Chinese
Association (Persatuan China Malaysia) or MCA [ONG Ka Ting];
Malaysian Indian Congress (Kongres India Malaysia) or MIC [S. Samy
VELLU]; Parti Bersatu Rakyat Sabah or PBRS [Joseph KURUP]; Parti
Bersatu Sabah or PBS [Joseph PAIRIN Kitingan]; Parti Pesaka
Bumiputera Bersatu or PBB [Abdul TAIB Mahmud]; Parti Rakyat Sarawak
or PRS [James MASING]; Sabah Progressive Party (Parti Progresif
Sabah) or SAPP [YONG Teck Lee]; Sarawak United People's Party (Parti
Bersatu Rakyat Sarawak) or SUPP [George CHAN Hong Nam]; United
Malays National Organization or UMNO [ABDULLAH bin Ahmad Badawi];
United Pasokmomogun Kadazandusun Murut Organization (Pertubuhan
Pasko Momogun Kadazan Dusun Bersatu) or UPKO [Bernard DOMPOK];
People's Progressive Party (Parti Progresif Penduduk Malaysia) or
PPP [M.Kayveas]; Sarawak Progressive Democratic Party or SPDP
[William MAWAN])
People's Alliance (Pakatan Rakyat) or PR (opposition coalition)
consists of the following parties:: Democratic Action Party (Parti
Tindakan Demokratik) or DAP [KARPAL Singh]; Islamic Party of
Malaysia (Parti Islam se Malaysia) or PAS [Abdul HADI Awang];
People's Justice Party (Parti Keadilan Rakyat) or PKR [WAN AZIZAH
Wan Ismael]; Sarawak National Party or SNAP [Edwin DUNDANG]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Bersih (electoral reform); Sharia High Court
other: religious groups; women's groups; youth groups


International organization participation:

ADB, APEC, APT, ARF, ASEAN, BIS, C, CP, EAS, FAO, G-15, G-77, IAEA,
IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF,
IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURSO,
MONUC, NAM, OIC, OPCW, PCA, PIF (partner), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNMIT, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO,
WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Ilango
KARUPPANNAN
chancery: 3516 International Court NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 572-9700
FAX: [1] (202) 572-9882
consulate(s) general: Los Angeles, New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador James R. KEITH
embassy: 376 Jalan Tun Razak, 50400 Kuala Lumpur
mailing address: US Embassy Kuala Lumpur, APO AP 96535-8152
telephone: [60] (3) 2168-5000
FAX: [60] (3) 2142-2207


Flag description:

14 equal horizontal stripes of red (top) alternating with white
(bottom); there is a blue rectangle in the upper hoist-side corner
bearing a yellow crescent and a yellow 14-pointed star; the crescent
and the star are traditional symbols of Islam; the design was based
on the flag of the US


Economy
Malaysia



Economy - overview:

Malaysia, a middle-income country, has transformed itself since the
1970s from a producer of raw materials into an emerging multi-sector
economy. Since coming to office in 2003, Prime Minister ABDULLAH has
tried to move the economy farther up the value-added production
chain by attracting investments in high technology industries,
medical technology, and pharmaceuticals. The Government of Malaysia
is continuing efforts to boost domestic demand to wean the economy
off of its dependence on exports. Nevertheless, exports -
particularly of electronics - remain a significant driver of the
economy. As an oil and gas exporter, Malaysia has profited from
higher world energy prices, although the rising cost of domestic
gasoline and diesel fuel forced Kuala Lumpur to reduce government
subsidies. Malaysia "unpegged" the ringgit from the US dollar in
2005 and the currency appreciated 6% per year against the dollar in
2006-07. Although this has helped to hold down the price of imports,
inflationary pressures began to build in 2007. Healthy foreign
exchange reserves and a small external debt greatly reduce the risk
that Malaysia will experience a financial crisis over the near term
similar to the one in 1997. The government presented its five-year
national development agenda in April 2006 through the Ninth Malaysia
Plan, a comprehensive blueprint for the allocation of the national
budget from 2006-10. With national elections expected within the
year, ABDULLAH has unveiled a series of ambitious development
schemes for several regions that have had trouble attracting
business investment. Real GDP growth has averaged about 6% per year
under ABDULLAH, but regions outside of Kuala Lumpur and the
manufacturing hub Penang have not fared as well.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$361.2 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$186.5 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6.3% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$14,500 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 9.9%
industry: 45.3%
services: 44.8% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

10.94 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 13%
industry: 36%
services: 51% (2005 est.)


Unemployment rate:

3.2% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

5.1% (2002 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 1.4%
highest 10%: 39.2% (2003 est.)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

46.1 (2002)


Investment (gross fixed):

21.7% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $40.69 billion
expenditures: $46.7 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

41.6% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2%
note: approximately 30% of goods are price-controlled (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

6.41% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$49.41 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$187.6 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$220 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

Peninsular Malaysia - rubber, palm oil, cocoa, rice; Sabah -
subsistence crops, rubber, timber, coconuts, rice; Sarawak - rubber,
pepper, timber


Industries:

Peninsular Malaysia - rubber and oil palm processing and
manufacturing, light manufacturing, electronics, tin mining and
smelting, logging, timber processing; Sabah - logging, petroleum
production; Sarawak - agriculture processing, petroleum production
and refining, logging


Industrial production growth rate:

3.3% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

102.9 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

95.98 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

2.524 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 89.5%
hydro: 10.5%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

753,700 bbl/day (2008 est.)


Oil - consumption:

501,100 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

546,300 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

308,500 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

4 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

64.5 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

32.9 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

31.6 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

2.35 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$28.93 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$176.4 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

electronic equipment, petroleum and liquefied natural gas, wood and
wood products, palm oil, rubber, textiles, chemicals


Exports - partners:

US 15.6%, Singapore 14.6%, Japan 9.1%, China 8.8%, Thailand 5%, Hong
Kong 4.6% (2007)


Imports:

$139.1 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

electronics, machinery, petroleum products, plastics, vehicles, iron
and steel products, chemicals


Imports - partners:

Japan 13%, China 12.9%, Singapore 11.5%, US 10.8%, Taiwan 5.7%,
Thailand 5.3%, South Korea 4.9%, Germany 4.6%, Indonesia 4.2% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$31.6 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$101.1 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$53.09 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$86.16 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$42.55 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$235.4 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

ringgit (MYR)


Currency code:

MYR


Exchange rates:

ringgits (MYR) per US dollar - 3.46 (2007), 3.6683 (2006), 3.8
(2005), 3.8 (2004), 3.8 (2003)


Communications
Malaysia



Telephones - main lines in use:

4.35 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

23.347 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: modern system; international service excellent
domestic: good intercity service provided on Peninsular Malaysia
mainly by microwave radio relay; adequate intercity microwave radio
relay network between Sabah and Sarawak via Brunei; domestic
satellite system with 2 earth stations; combined fixed-line and
mobile cellular teledensity exceeds 110 per 100 persons
international: country code - 60; landing point for several major
international submarine cable networks that provide connectivity to
Asia, Middle East, and Europe; satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat
(1 Indian Ocean, 1 Pacific Ocean) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 35, FM 391, shortwave 15 (2001)


Radios:

10.9 million (1999)


Television broadcast stations:

88 (mainland Malaysia 51, Sabah 16, and Sarawak 21) (2006)


Televisions:

10.8 million (1999)


Internet country code:

.my


Internet hosts:

377,716 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

7 (2000)


Internet users:

15.868 million (2007)


Transportation
Malaysia



Airports:

116 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 36
over 3,047 m: 5
2,438 to 3,047 m: 9
1,524 to 2,437 m: 8
914 to 1,523 m: 8
under 914 m: 6 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 80
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 7
under 914 m: 72 (2007)


Heliports:

2 (2007)


Pipelines:

condensate 282 km; gas 5,273 km; oil 1,750 km; oil/gas/water 19 km;
refined products 114 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 1,890 km
standard gauge: 57 km 1.435-m gauge (57 km electrified)
narrow gauge: 1,833 km 1.000-m gauge (150 km electrified) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 98,721 km
paved: 80,280 km (includes 1,821 km of expressways)
unpaved: 18,441 km (2004)


Waterways:

7,200 km
note: Peninsular Malaysia 3,200 km; Sabah 1,500 km; Sarawak 2,500 km
(2005)


Merchant marine:

total: 306
by type: bulk carrier 12, cargo 97, carrier 1, chemical tanker 34,
container 46, liquefied gas 33, passenger/cargo 5, petroleum tanker
71, roll on/roll off 3, vehicle carrier 4
foreign-owned: 40 (Germany 1, Hong Kong 14, Japan 4, Russia 2,
Singapore 16, Sweden 3)
registered in other countries: 68 (Bahamas 13, Marshall Islands 3,
Norway 1, Panama 12, Philippines 1, Saint Kitts and Nevis 1,
Singapore 27, Thailand 3, Tuvalu 1, US 2, unknown 4) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Bintulu, Johor Bahru, Kuantan, Labuan, George Town (Penang), Port
Kelang, Tanjung Pelepas


Transportation - note:

the International Maritime Bureau reports the territorial and
offshore waters in the Strait of Malacca and South China Sea as high
risk for piracy and armed robbery against ships; numerous commercial
vessels have been attacked and hijacked both at anchor and while
underway; hijacked vessels are often disguised and cargo diverted to
ports in East Asia; crews have been murdered or cast adrift


Military
Malaysia



Military branches:

Malaysian Armed Forces (Angkatan Tentera Malaysia, ATM): Malaysian
Army (Tentera Darat Malaysia), Royal Malaysian Navy (Tentera Laut
Diraja Malaysia, TLDM), Royal Malaysian Air Force (Tentera Udara
Diraja Malaysia, TUDM) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service (2005)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 6,440,338
females age 16-49: 6,280,826 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 5,374,006
females age 16-49: 5,316,865 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 260,725
female: 247,309 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

2.03% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Malaysia



Disputes - international:

Malaysia has asserted sovereignty over the Spratly Islands together
with China, Philippines, Taiwan, Vietnam, and possibly Brunei; while
the 2002 "Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China
Sea" has eased tensions over the Spratly Islands, it is not the
legally binding "code of conduct" sought by some parties; Malaysia
was not party to the March 2005 joint accord among the national oil
companies of China, the Philippines, and Vietnam on conducting
marine seismic activities in the Spratly Islands; disputes continue
over deliveries of fresh water to Singapore, Singapore's land
reclamation, bridge construction, and maritime boundaries in the
Johor and Singapore Straits; in November 2007, the ICJ will hold
public hearings in response to the Memorials and Countermemorials
filed by the parties in 2003 and 2005 over sovereignty of Pedra
Branca Island/Pulau Batu Puteh, Middle Rocks and South Ledge; ICJ
awarded Ligitan and Sipadan islands, also claimed by Indonesia and
Philippines, to Malaysia but left maritime boundary and sovereignty
of Unarang rock in the hydrocarbon-rich Celebes Sea in dispute;
separatist violence in Thailand's predominantly Muslim southern
provinces prompts measures to close and monitor border with Malaysia
to stem terrorist activities; Philippines retains a dormant claim to
Malaysia's Sabah State in northern Borneo; Brunei and Malaysia
agreed in September 2008 to resolve their offshore and deepwater
seabed dispute, resume hydrocarbon exploration and renounce any
territorial claims on land; piracy remains a problem in the Malacca
Strait


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 15,174 (Indonesia); 21,544 (Burma)
(2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Malaysia is a destination and, to a lesser
extent, a source and transit country for women and children
trafficked for the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation, and
men, women, and children for forced labor; Malaysia is mainly a
destination country for men, women, and children who migrate
willingly from South and Southeast Asia to work, some of whom are
subjected to conditions of involuntary servitude by Malaysian
employers in the domestic, agricultural, construction, plantation,
and industrial sectors; to a lesser extent, some Malaysian women,
primarily of Chinese ethnicity, are trafficked abroad for commercial
sexual exploitation
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Malaysia improved from Tier 3 to
the Tier 2 Watch List for 2008 when it enacted comprehensive
anti-trafficking legislation in July 2007; however, it did not take
action against exploitative employers or labor traffickers in 2007;
the government has not ratified the 2000 UN TIP Protocol (2008)


Illicit drugs:

drug trafficking prosecuted vigorously and carries severe penalties;
heroin still primary drug of abuse, but synthetic drug demand
remains strong; continued ecstasy and methamphetamine producer for
domestic users and, to a lesser extent, the regional drug market



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Maldives

Introduction
Maldives



Background:

The Maldives was long a sultanate, first under Dutch and then under
British protection. It became a republic in 1968, three years after
independence. President Maumoon Abdul GAYOOM dominated the islands'
political scene for 30 years, elected to six successive terms by
single-party referendums. Following riots in the capital Male in
August 2004, the president and his government pledged to embark upon
democratic reforms including a more representative political system
and expanded political freedoms. Progress was sluggish, however, and
many promised reforms were slow to be realized. Nonetheless,
political parties were legalized in 2005. In June 2008, a
constituent assembly - termed the "Special Majlis" - finalized a new
constitution, which was ratified by the president in August. The
first-ever presidential elections under a multi-candidate,
multi-party system were held in October 2008. GAYOOM was defeated in
a runoff poll by Mohamed NASHEED, a political activist who had been
jailed several years earlier by the former regime. Challenges facing
the new president include strengthening democracy and combating
poverty and drug abuse.


Geography
Maldives



Location:

Southern Asia, group of atolls in the Indian Ocean, south-southwest
of India


Geographic coordinates:

3 15 N, 73 00 E


Map references:

Asia


Area:

total: 300 sq km
land: 300 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

about 1.7 times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

644 km


Maritime claims:

measured from claimed archipelagic straight baselines
territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; hot, humid; dry, northeast monsoon (November to March);
rainy, southwest monsoon (June to August)


Terrain:

flat, with white sandy beaches


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
highest point: unnamed location on Wilingili island in the Addu
Atoll 2.4 m


Natural resources:

fish


Land use:

arable land: 13.33%
permanent crops: 30%
other: 56.67% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Total renewable water resources:

0.03 cu km (1999)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.003 cu km/yr (98%/2%/0%)
per capita: 9 cu m/yr (1987)


Natural hazards:

low level of islands makes them sensitive to sea level rise


Environment - current issues:

depletion of freshwater aquifers threatens water supplies; global
warming and sea level rise; coral reef bleaching


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone
Layer Protection, Ship Pollution
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

1,190 coral islands grouped into 26 atolls (200 inhabited islands,
plus 80 islands with tourist resorts); archipelago with strategic
location astride and along major sea lanes in Indian Ocean


People
Maldives



Population:

385,925 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 23.5% (male 46,174/female 44,396)
15-64 years: 72.7% (male 172,279/female 108,152)
65 years and over: 3.9% (male 7,510/female 7,414) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 25.1 years
male: 26 years
female: 23.7 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

5.566% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

14.84 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

3.66 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.59 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 1.01 male(s)/female
total population: 1.41 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 30.63 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 33.15 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 27.98 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 73.72 years
male: 71.55 years
female: 76.01 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.97 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

fewer than 100 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Maldivian(s)
adjective: Maldivian


Ethnic groups:

South Indians, Sinhalese, Arabs


Religions:

Sunni Muslim


Languages:

Maldivian Dhivehi (dialect of Sinhala, script derived from Arabic),
English spoken by most government officials


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 96.3%
male: 96.2%
female: 96.4% (2000 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 12 years
male: 12 years
female: 12 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

8% of GDP (2006)


Government
Maldives



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Maldives
conventional short form: Maldives
local long form: Dhivehi Raajjeyge Jumhooriyyaa
local short form: Dhivehi Raajje


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Male
geographic coordinates: 4 10 N, 73 30 E
time difference: UTC+5 (10 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

19 atolls (atholhu, singular and plural) and the capital city*;
Alifu, Baa, Dhaalu, Faafu, Gaafu Alifu, Gaafu Dhaalu, Gnaviyani, Haa
Alifu, Haa Dhaalu, Kaafu, Laamu, Lhaviyani, Maale* (Male), Meemu,
Noonu, Raa, Seenu, Shaviyani, Thaa, Vaavu


Independence:

26 July 1965 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 26 July (1965)


Constitution:

new constitution ratified 7 August 2008


Legal system:

based on Islamic law with admixtures of English common law primarily
in commercial matters; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

21 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Mohamed NASHEED (since 11 November 2008);
Vice President (vacant); note - the president is both the chief of
state and head of government
head of government: President Mohamed NASHEED (since 11 November
2008); Vice President (vacant)
cabinet: Cabinet of Ministers appointed by the president
elections: under the new constitution, the president is elected by
direct vote; president elected for a five-year term (eligible for a
second term); election last held 8 and 28 October 2008 (next to be
held in 2013)
election results: Mohamed NASHEED elected president; percent of vote
- NASHEED 54.25%, Maumoon Abdul GAYOOM 45.75%; note - NASHEED is
expected to assume office on 11 November 2008


Legislative branch:

unicameral People's Council or Majlis (50 seats; 42 members elected
by popular vote, 8 appointed by the president; to serve five-year
terms)
elections: last held 22 January 2005 (next to be held in 2010)
election results: percent of vote - NA; seats - independents 50


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court; Supreme Court judges are appointed by the President
with approval of voting members of the People's Council; High Court;
Trial Courts; all lower court judges are appointed by the Judicial
Service Commission


Political parties and leaders:

Adhaalath (Justice) Party or AP [Abdul Majeed Abdul BARI]; Dhivehi
Rayyithunge Party (Maldivian People's Party) or DRP [Maumoon Abdul
GAYOOM]; Islamic Democratic Party or IDP [Omar NASEER]; Maldivian
Democratic Party or MDP [Mohamed NASHEED]; note - political parties
were allowed to register in June 2005


Political pressure groups and leaders:

other: various unregistered political parties


International organization participation:

ADB, C, CP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IMF, IMO,
Interpol, IOC, IPU, ITU, MIGA, NAM, OIC, OPCW, SAARC, SACEP, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Mohamed Hussain MANIKU
chancery: 800 2nd Avenue, Suite 400E, New York, NY 10017
telephone: [1] (212) 599-6194
FAX: [1] (212) 599-6195


Diplomatic representation from the US:

the US does not have an embassy in Maldives; the US Ambassador to
Sri Lanka is accredited to Maldives and makes periodic visits


Flag description:

red with a large green rectangle in the center bearing a vertical
white crescent; the closed side of the crescent is on the hoist side
of the flag


Economy
Maldives



Economy - overview:

Tourism, Maldives' largest industry, accounts for 28% of GDP and
more than 60% of the Maldives' foreign exchange receipts. Over 90%
of government tax revenue comes from import duties and
tourism-related taxes. Fishing is the second leading sector.
Agriculture and manufacturing continue to play a lesser role in the
economy, constrained by the limited availability of cultivable land
and the shortage of domestic labor. Most staple foods must be
imported. Industry, which consists mainly of garment production,
boat building, and handicrafts, accounts for about 7% of GDP. The
Maldivian Government began an economic reform program in 1989
initially by lifting import quotas and opening some exports to the
private sector. Subsequently, it has liberalized regulations to
allow more foreign investment. Real GDP growth averaged over 7.5%
per year for more than a decade. In late December 2004, a major
tsunami left more than 100 dead, 12,000 displaced, and property
damage exceeding $300 million. As a result of the tsunami, the GDP
contracted by about 3.6% in 2005. A rebound in tourism, post-tsunami
reconstruction, and development of new resorts helped the economy
recover quickly. The trade deficit has expanded sharply as a result
of high oil prices and imports of construction material.
Diversifying beyond tourism and fishing and increasing employment
are the major challenges facing the government. Over the longer term
Maldivian authorities worry about the impact of erosion and possible
global warming on their low-lying country; 80% of the area is 1
meter or less above sea level.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$1.588 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$1.049 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6.6% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$4,600 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 16%
industry: 7%
services: 77% (2006 est.)


Labor force:

101,300 (2004)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 22%
industry: 18%
services: 60% (1995)


Unemployment rate:

NEGL% (2003 est.)


Population below poverty line:

21% (2004)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $508 million (including foreign grants)
expenditures: $671 million (2006 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

5% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

12.5% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

13% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$344.1 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$434.9 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$1.08 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

coconuts, corn, sweet potatoes; fish


Industries:

tourism, fish processing, shipping, boat building, coconut
processing, garments, woven mats, rope, handicrafts, coral and sand
mining


Industrial production growth rate:

-0.9% (2004 est.)


Electricity - production:

230 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

203.7 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

5,490 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

1,499 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

5,362 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$472 million (2007)


Exports:

$167 million f.o.b. (2006)


Exports - commodities:

fish


Exports - partners:

Thailand 28.3%, UK 17.6%, France 8.8%, Sri Lanka 8.6%, Algeria 8.2%,
Japan 6.4%, Italy 4.1% (2007)


Imports:

$930 million f.o.b. (2006)


Imports - commodities:

petroleum products, ships, foodstuffs, clothing, intermediate and
capital goods


Imports - partners:

Canada 35.2%, Singapore 15%, UAE 10.2%, India 7.4%, Malaysia 7.1%
(2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$66.83 million (2005)


Debt - external:

$482 million (2006 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

rufiyaa (MVR)


Currency code:

MVR


Exchange rates:

rufiyaa (MVR) per US dollar - NA (2007), 12.8 (2006), 12.8 (2005),
12.8 (2004), 12.8 (2003)


Communications
Maldives



Telephones - main lines in use:

33,200 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

317,800 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: telephone services have improved; each island
now has at least 1 public telephone, and there are mobile cellular
networks with a rapidly expanding subscribership approaching 90 per
100 persons
domestic: interatoll communication through microwave links; all
inhabited islands and resorts are connected with telephone and fax
service
international: country code - 960; linked to international submarine
cable Fiber-Optic Link Around the Globe (FLAG); satellite earth
station - 3 Intelsat (Indian Ocean) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 1 (1998)


Radios:

35,000 (1999)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (2006)


Televisions:

10,000 (1999)


Internet country code:

.mv


Internet hosts:

1,600 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

33,000 (2007)


Transportation
Maldives



Airports:

5 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 3
over 3,047 m: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 2 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 88 km
paved roads: 88 km - 60 km in Male; 14 km on Addu Atolis; 14 km on
Laamu
note: village roads are mainly compacted coral (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 29
by type: bulk carrier 1, cargo 23, petroleum tanker 3, refrigerated
cargo 2
foreign-owned: 1 (Greece 1)
registered in other countries: 2 (Panama 1, Tuvalu 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Male


Military
Maldives



Military branches:

Maldives National Defense Force (MNDF): Quick Reaction Force,
Security Protection Group, Coast Guard (2007)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service; no conscription
(2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 89,505
females age 16-49: 85,745 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 72,150
females age 16-49: 69,058 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 4,749
female: 4,084 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

5.5% of GDP (2005 est.)


Military - note:

the Maldives National Defense Force (MNDF), with its small size and
with little serviceable equipment, is inadequate to prevent external
aggression and is primarily tasked to reinforce the Maldives Police
Service (MPS) and ensure security in the exclusive economic zone
(2008)


Transnational Issues
Maldives



Disputes - international:

none


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

IDPs: 1,000-10,000 (December 2004 tsunami victims) (2007)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Mali

Introduction
Mali



Background:

The Sudanese Republic and Senegal became independent of France in
1960 as the Mali Federation. When Senegal withdrew after only a few
months, what formerly made up the Sudanese Republic was renamed
Mali. Rule by dictatorship was brought to a close in 1991 by a
military coup - led by the current president Amadou TOURE - enabling
Mali's emergence as one of the strongest democracies on the
continent. President Alpha KONARE won Mali's first democratic
presidential election in 1992 and was reelected in 1997. In keeping
with Mali's two-term constitutional limit, KONARE stepped down in
2002 and was succeeded by Amadou TOURE, who was subsequently elected
to a second term in 2007. The elections were widely judged to be
free and fair.


Geography
Mali



Location:

Western Africa, southwest of Algeria


Geographic coordinates:

17 00 N, 4 00 W


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 1.24 million sq km
land: 1.22 million sq km
water: 20,000 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly less than twice the size of Texas


Land boundaries:

total: 7,243 km
border countries: Algeria 1,376 km, Burkina Faso 1,000 km, Guinea
858 km, Cote d'Ivoire 532 km, Mauritania 2,237 km, Niger 821 km,
Senegal 419 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

subtropical to arid; hot and dry (February to June); rainy, humid,
and mild (June to November); cool and dry (November to February)


Terrain:

mostly flat to rolling northern plains covered by sand; savanna in
south, rugged hills in northeast


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Senegal River 23 m
highest point: Hombori Tondo 1,155 m


Natural resources:

gold, phosphates, kaolin, salt, limestone, uranium, gypsum, granite,
hydropower
note: bauxite, iron ore, manganese, tin, and copper deposits are
known but not exploited


Land use:

arable land: 3.76%
permanent crops: 0.03%
other: 96.21% (2005)


Irrigated land:

2,360 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

100 cu km (2001)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 6.55 cu km/yr (9%/1%/90%)
per capita: 484 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

hot, dust-laden harmattan haze common during dry seasons; recurring
droughts; occasional Niger River flooding


Environment - current issues:

deforestation; soil erosion; desertification; inadequate supplies of
potable water; poaching


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

landlocked; divided into three natural zones: the southern,
cultivated Sudanese; the central, semiarid Sahelian; and the
northern, arid Saharan


People
Mali



Population:

12,324,029 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 48.2% (male 3,004,003/female 2,937,138)
15-64 years: 48.7% (male 2,976,314/female 3,028,433)
65 years and over: 3.1% (male 150,597/female 227,544) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 15.8 years
male: 15.4 years
female: 16.2 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.725% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

49.38 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

16.16 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-5.97 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.66 male(s)/female
total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 103.83 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 113.41 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 93.97 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 49.94 years
male: 48 years
female: 51.94 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

7.34 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

1.9% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

140,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

12,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne disease: malaria
water contact disease: schistosomiasis
respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Malian(s)
adjective: Malian


Ethnic groups:

Mande 50% (Bambara, Malinke, Soninke), Peul 17%, Voltaic 12%,
Songhai 6%, Tuareg and Moor 10%, other 5%


Religions:

Muslim 90%, Christian 1%, indigenous beliefs 9%


Languages:

French (official), Bambara 80%, numerous African languages


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 46.4%
male: 53.5%
female: 39.6% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 7 years
male: 8 years
female: 5 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

4.5% of GDP (2006)


Government
Mali



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Mali
conventional short form: Mali
local long form: Republique de Mali
local short form: Mali
former: French Sudan and Sudanese Republic


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Bamako
geographic coordinates: 12 39 N, 8 00 W
time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

8 regions (regions, singular - region); Gao, Kayes, Kidal,
Koulikoro, Mopti, Segou, Sikasso, Tombouctou


Independence:

22 September 1960 (from France)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 22 September (1960)


Constitution:

adopted 12 January 1992


Legal system:

based on French civil law system and customary law; judicial review
of legislative acts in Constitutional Court; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Amadou Toumani TOURE (since 8 June 2002)
head of government: Prime Minister Modibo SIDIBE (since 28 September
2007)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held on 29 April 2007
(next to be held in April 2012); prime minister appointed by the
president
election results: Amadou Toumani TOURE reelected president; percent
of vote - Amadou Toumani TOURE 71.2%, Ibrahim Boubacar KEITA 19.2%,
other 9.6%


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale (147 seats;
members elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held on 1 and 22 July 2007 (next to be held in July
2012)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
ADP coalition 113 (including ADEMA 51, URD 34, MPR 8, CNID 7, UDD 3,
and other 10), FDR coalition 15 (including RPM 11, PARENA 4), SADI
4, independent 15


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court or Cour Supreme


Political parties and leaders:

Alliance for Democratic Change (political group comprised mainly of
Tuareg from Mali's northern region); African Solidarity for
Democracy and Independence or SADI [Oumar MARIKO, secretary
general]; Alliance for Democracy and Progress or ADP (a coalition of
political parties including ADEMA and URD formed in December 2006 to
support the presidential candidacy of Amadou TOURE); Alliance for
Democracy or ADEMA [Diounconda TRAORE]; Convergence 2007 [Soumeylou
Boubeye MAIGA]; Front for Democracy and the Republic or FDR (a
coalition of political parties including RPM and PARENA formed to
oppose the presidential candidacy of Amadou TOURE); National
Congress for Democratic Initiative or CNID [Mountaga TALL]; Party
for Democracy and Progress or PDP [Me Idrissa TRAORE]; Party for
National Renewal or PARENA [Tiebile DRAME]; Patriotic Movement for
Renewal or MPR [Choguel MAIGA]; Rally for Democracy and Labor or
RDT; Rally for Mali or RPM [Ibrahim Boubacar KEITA]; Sudanese
Union/African Democratic Rally or US/RDA [Mamadou Bamou TOURE];
Union for Democracy and Development or UDD [Moussa Balla COULIBALY];
Union for Republic and Democracy or URD [Soumaila CISSE]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

other: the army; Islamic authorities; rebels in the northern region;
state-run cotton company CMDT; tuaregs


International organization participation:

ACP, AfDB, AU, ECOWAS, FAO, FZ, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM,
IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ITSO,
ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURCAT, MONUC, NAM, OIC, OIF, OPCW, UN, UNAMID,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNWTO, UPU, WADB (regional),
WAEMU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Abdoulaye DIOP
chancery: 2130 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 332-2249, 939-8950
FAX: [1] (202) 332-6603


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Gillian A. MILOVANOVIC
embassy: located just off the Roi Bin Fahad Aziz Bridge just west of
the Bamako central district
mailing address: ACI 2000, Rue 243, Porte 297, Bamako
telephone: [223] 270-2300
FAX: [223] 270-2479


Flag description:

three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), yellow, and red;
uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia


Economy
Mali



Economy - overview:

Mali is among the poorest countries in the world, with 65% of its
land area desert or semidesert and with a highly unequal
distribution of income. Economic activity is largely confined to the
riverine area irrigated by the Niger. About 10% of the population is
nomadic and some 80% of the labor force is engaged in farming and
fishing. Industrial activity is concentrated on processing farm
commodities. Mali is heavily dependent on foreign aid and vulnerable
to fluctuations in world prices for cotton, its main export, along
with gold. The government has continued its successful
implementation of an IMF-recommended structural adjustment program
that is helping the economy grow, diversify, and attract foreign
investment. Mali's adherence to economic reform and the 50%
devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994 have pushed up economic
growth to a 5% average in 1996-2007. Worker remittances and external
trade routes for the landlocked country have been jeopardized by
continued unrest in neighboring Cote d'Ivoire.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$13.63 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$6.745 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

2.8% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$1,100 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 45%
industry: 17%
services: 38% (2001 est.)


Labor force:

5.4 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 80%
industry and services: 20% (2005 est.)


Unemployment rate:

30% (2004 est.)


Population below poverty line:

36.1% (2005 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.4%
highest 10%: 30.2% (2001)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

40.1 (2001)


Budget:

revenues: $1.5 billion
expenditures: $1.8 billion (2006 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.5% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

4.25% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

NA (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$1.58 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$697.1 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$1.099 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

cotton, millet, rice, corn, vegetables, peanuts; cattle, sheep, goats


Industries:

food processing; construction; phosphate and gold mining


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

505 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

469.7 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh; note - recent hydropower developments may be providing
electricity to Senegal and Mauritania (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 41.7%
hydro: 58.3%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

4,640 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2006)


Oil - imports:

4,860 bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$446 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$294 million f.o.b. (2006)


Exports - commodities:

cotton, gold, livestock


Exports - partners:

China 19.6%, Thailand 10.5%, Brazil 4.6%, France 4.5%, Indonesia
4.5% (2007)


Imports:

$2.358 billion f.o.b. (2006)


Imports - commodities:

petroleum, machinery and equipment, construction materials,
foodstuffs, textiles


Imports - partners:

France 12.9%, Senegal 12.7%, Cote d'Ivoire 10.9%, China 4.9% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$691.5 million (2005)


Debt - external:

$2.8 billion (2002)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note - responsible
authority is the Central Bank of the West African States


Currency code:

XOF


Exchange rates:

Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US dollar - 493.51
(2007), 522.59 (2006), 527.47 (2005), 528.29 (2004), 581.2 (2003)
note: since 1 January 1999, the XOF franc has been pegged to the
euro at a rate of 655.957 XOF francs per euro


Communications
Mali



Telephones - main lines in use:

85,000 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

2.483 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: domestic system unreliable but improving;
provides only minimal service
domestic: fixed-line availability is gradually increasing, but
subscribership remains less than 1 per 100 persons; increasing use
of local radio loops to extend network coverage to remote areas;
mobile-cellular subscribership has increased sharply to 20 per 100
persons
international: country code - 223; satellite earth stations - 2
Intelsat (1 Atlantic Ocean, 1 Indian Ocean) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 230 (27 regional and government stations, and 203 private
stations), shortwave 1 (2001)


Radios:

570,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

2 (plus repeaters) (2007)


Televisions:

45,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.ml


Internet hosts:

387 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

13 (2001)


Internet users:

100,000 (2007)


Transportation
Mali



Airports:

29 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 8
2,438 to 3,047 m: 4
1,524 to 2,437 m: 4 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 21
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
914 to 1,523 m: 7
under 914 m: 8 (2007)


Railways:

total: 729 km
narrow gauge: 729 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 18,709 km
paved: 3,368 km
unpaved: 15,341 km (2004)


Waterways:

1,800 km (2007)


Ports and terminals:

Koulikoro


Military
Mali



Military branches:

Malian Armed Forces: Army, Republic of Mali Air Force (Force
Aerienne de la Republique du Mali, FARM), National Guard (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military service;
conscript service obligation - 2 years (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,603,700
females age 16-49: 2,441,776 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,594,184
females age 16-49: 1,529,871 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 144,293
female: 136,381 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.9% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Mali



Disputes - international:

none


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 6,300 (Mauritania) (2007)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Malta

Introduction
Malta



Background:

Great Britain formally acquired possession of Malta in 1814. The
island staunchly supported the UK through both World Wars and
remained in the Commonwealth when it became independent in 1964. A
decade later Malta became a republic. Since about the mid-1980s, the
island has transformed itself into a freight transshipment point, a
financial center, and a tourist destination. Malta became an EU
member in May 2004 and began to use the euro as currency in 2008.


Geography
Malta



Location:

Southern Europe, islands in the Mediterranean Sea, south of Sicily
(Italy)


Geographic coordinates:

35 50 N, 14 35 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 316 sq km
land: 316 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly less than twice the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

196.8 km (does not include 56.01 km for the island of Gozo)


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
continental shelf: 200 m depth or to the depth of exploitation
exclusive fishing zone: 25 nm


Climate:

Mediterranean; mild, rainy winters; hot, dry summers


Terrain:

mostly low, rocky, flat to dissected plains; many coastal cliffs


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Mediterranean Sea 0 m
highest point: Ta'Dmejrek 253 m (near Dingli)


Natural resources:

limestone, salt, arable land


Land use:

arable land: 31.25%
permanent crops: 3.13%
other: 65.62% (2005)


Irrigated land:

20 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

0.07 cu km (2005)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.02 cu km/yr (74%/1%/25%)
per capita: 50 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

NA


Environment - current issues:

limited natural fresh water resources; increasing reliance on
desalination


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

the country comprises an archipelago, with only the three largest
islands (Malta, Ghawdex or Gozo, and Kemmuna or Comino) being
inhabited; numerous bays provide good harbors; Malta and Tunisia are
discussing the commercial exploitation of the continental shelf
between their countries, particularly for oil exploration


People
Malta



Population:

403,532 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 16.4% (male 33,954/female 32,158)
15-64 years: 69.7% (male 142,338/female 138,792)
65 years and over: 13.9% (male 24,240/female 32,050) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 39.2 years
male: 37.9 years
female: 40.6 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.407% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

10.33 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

8.29 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

2.03 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.76 male(s)/female
total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 3.79 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 4.25 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 3.3 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 79.3 years
male: 77.08 years
female: 81.64 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.51 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.2% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

fewer than 500 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 100 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Maltese (singular and plural)
adjective: Maltese


Ethnic groups:

Maltese (descendants of ancient Carthaginians and Phoenicians with
strong elements of Italian and other Mediterranean stock)


Religions:

Roman Catholic 98%


Languages:

Maltese (official) 90.2%, English (official) 6%, multilingual 3%,
other 0.8% (2005 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 10 and over can read and write
total population: 92.8%
male: 92%
female: 93.6% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 15 years
male: 15 years
female: 15 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

5.1% of GDP (2004)


Government
Malta



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Malta
conventional short form: Malta
local long form: Repubblika ta' Malta
local short form: Malta


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Valletta
geographic coordinates: 35 53 N, 14 30 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

none (administered directly from Valletta); note - local councils
carry out administrative orders


Independence:

21 September 1964 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 21 September (1964)


Constitution:

1964 constitution; amended many times


Legal system:

based on English common law and Roman civil law; accepts compulsory
ICJ jurisdiction with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Edward FENECH ADAMI (since 4 April 2004)
head of government: Prime Minister Lawrence GONZI (since 23 March
2004)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president on the advice of the
prime minister
elections: president elected by the House of Representatives for a
five-year term (eligible for a second term); election last held on
29 March 2004 (next to be held by April 2009); following legislative
elections, the leader of the majority party or leader of a majority
coalition is usually appointed prime minister by the president for a
five-year term; the deputy prime minister is appointed by the
president on the advice of the prime minister
election results: Eddie FENECH ADAMI elected president; House of
Representatives vote - 33 out of 65 votes


Legislative branch:

unicameral House of Representatives (usually 65 seats; members are
elected by popular vote on the basis of proportional representation
to serve five-year terms; note - additional seats are given to the
party with the largest popular vote to ensure a legislative majority)
elections: last held on 8 March 2008 (next to be held by March 2013)
election results: percent of vote by party - PN 49.3%, MLP 48.8%,
other 1.9%; seats by party - PN 35, MLP 34


Judicial branch:

Constitutional Court; Court of Appeal; judges for both courts are
appointed by the president on the advice of the prime minister


Political parties and leaders:

Alternativa Demokratika/Alliance for Social Justice or AD [Harry
VASSALLO]; Malta Labor Party or MLP [acting leader Charles MANGION];
Nationalist Party or PN [Lawrence GONZI]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Alleanza Liberal-Demokratika Maltra ro ALDM (against illegal
immigration); Alleanza Nazzionali Repubblikana or ANR (encourages
tourism); Alternattiva Demokratika (campaign to reform rent law, and
other campaigns); Azzjoni Nazzjonali or AN (freedom to participate
in democratic government); Ghazdatal-Konsumaturi (consumer rights);
Nazi Watch Malta (exposing Nazis)
other: environmentalists


International organization participation:

Australia Group, C, CE, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EMU, EU, FAO, IAEA, IBRD,
ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol,
IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NSG, OPCW, OSCE, PCA,
PFP, Schengen Convention, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU,
WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Mark MICELI-FARRUGIA
chancery: 2017 Connecticut Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 462-3611, 3612
FAX: [1] (202) 387-5470
consulate(s): New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Molly BORDONARO
embassy: 3rd Floor, Development House, Saint Anne Street, Floriana,
VLT 01
mailing address: P. O. Box 535, Valletta, CMR01
telephone: [356] 2561 4000
FAX: [356] 21 243229


Flag description:

two equal vertical bands of white (hoist side) and red; in the upper
hoist-side corner is a representation of the George Cross, edged in
red


Economy
Malta



Economy - overview:

Major resources are limestone, a favorable geographic location, and
a productive labor force. Malta produces only about 20% of its food
needs, has limited fresh water supplies, and has few domestic energy
sources. The economy is dependent on foreign trade, manufacturing
(especially electronics and pharmaceuticals), and tourism. Economic
recovery of the European economy has lifted exports, tourism, and
overall growth. Malta adopted the euro on 1 January 2008.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$9.4 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$7.419 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

3.8% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$23,400 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 2.7%
industry: 22.3%
services: 74.9% (2003 est.)


Labor force:

166,000 (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 3%
industry: 22%
services: 75% (2005 est.)


Unemployment rate:

6.4% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

28 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

18.9% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $3.485 billion
expenditures: $3.554 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

1.3% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

NA (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

6.24% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$4.603 billion
note: see entry for the European Union for money supply in the Euro
Area; the European Central Bank (ECB) controls monetary policy for
the 15 members of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU); individual
members of the EMU do not control the quantity of money and quasi
money circulating within their own borders (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$7.645 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$10.99 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

potatoes, cauliflower, grapes, wheat, barley, tomatoes, citrus, cut
flowers, green peppers; pork, milk, poultry, eggs


Industries:

tourism, electronics, ship building and repair, construction, food
and beverages, pharmaceuticals, footwear, clothing, tobacco


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

2.146 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

1.85 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

18,680 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

18,910 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$424.5 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$3.238 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

machinery and transport equipment, manufactures


Exports - partners:

Singapore 14.4%, Germany 13.7%, France 12.6%, US 11.3%, UK 10%, Hong
Kong 6.1%, Japan 4.9%, Italy 4% (2007)


Imports:

$4.541 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and transport equipment, manufactured and
semi-manufactured goods; food, drink, tobacco


Imports - partners:

Italy 26%, UK 15%, France 9.5%, Germany 8.8%, Singapore 5.2% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$6.19 million (2004)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$3.798 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$188.8 million (2005)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$NA


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$4.097 billion (2005)


Currency (code):

euro (EUR) as of 1 January 2008; Maltese lira (MTL) before then


Currency code:

MTL


Exchange rates:

euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.6795 (January 2008), Maltese liri per
US dollar - 0.3106 (2007), 0.37 (2006), 0.34578 (2005), 0.34466
(2004), 0.37723 (2003)


Communications
Malta



Telephones - main lines in use:

198,100 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

371,500 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: automatic system satisfies normal requirements;
fixed-line teledensity 50 per 100 persons; mobile-cellular
teledensity about 90 per 100 persons
domestic: submarine cable and microwave radio relay between islands
international: country code - 356; submarine cable connects to
Italy; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 18, shortwave 6 (1999)


Radios:

255,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

5 (2006)


Televisions:

280,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.mt


Internet hosts:

26,494 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

6 (2002)


Internet users:

158,000 (2007)


Transportation
Malta



Airports:

1 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
over 3,047 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 2,227 km
paved: 2,014 km
unpaved: 213 km (2005)


Merchant marine:

total: 1,438
by type: bulk carrier 459, cargo 411, carrier 2, chemical tanker
171, container 80, liquefied gas 25, passenger 29, passenger/cargo
15, petroleum tanker 159, refrigerated cargo 32, roll on/roll off
37, specialized tanker 1, vehicle carrier 17
foreign-owned: 1,343 (Austria 1, Azerbaijan 2, Bangladesh 2, Belgium
15, Bulgaria 5, Canada 1, China 12, Croatia 9, Cyprus 31, Denmark
30, Egypt 1, Estonia 11, France 5, Germany 91, Greece 452, Hong Kong
1, Iceland 5, India 2, Iran 79, Israel 18, Italy 50, Japan 8, South
Korea 2, Latvia 19, Lebanon 11, Libya 3, Lithuania 1, Norway 93,
Pakistan 2, Poland 24, Portugal 3, Romania 8, Russia 58, Slovenia 4,
Spain 3, Sweden 2, Switzerland 20, Syria 6, Turkey 176, Ukraine 30,
UAE 5, UK 19, US 23)
registered in other countries: 3 (Panama 3) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Marsaxlokk (Malta Freeport), Valletta


Military
Malta



Military branches:

Armed Forces of Malta (AFM; includes air and maritime elements)
(2007)


Military service age and obligation:

17 years 6 months of age for voluntary military service; no
conscription (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 96,309
females age 16-49: 92,242 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 80,227
females age 16-49: 76,623 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 2,815
female: 2,657 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0.7% of GDP (2006 est.)


Transnational Issues
Malta



Disputes - international:

none


Illicit drugs:

minor transshipment point for hashish from North Africa to Western
Europe



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Marshall Islands

Introduction
Marshall Islands



Background:

After almost four decades under US administration as the easternmost
part of the UN Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Marshall
Islands attained independence in 1986 under a Compact of Free
Association. Compensation claims continue as a result of US nuclear
testing on some of the atolls between 1947 and 1962. The Marshall
Islands hosts the US Army Kwajalein Atoll (USAKA) Reagan Missile
Test Site, a key installation in the US missile defense network.


Geography
Marshall Islands



Location:

Oceania, two archipelagic island chains of 29 atolls, each made up
of many small islets, and five single islands in the North Pacific
Ocean, about half way between Hawaii and Australia


Geographic coordinates:

9 00 N, 168 00 E


Map references:

Oceania


Area:

total: 181.3 sq km
land: 181.3 sq km
water: 0 sq km
note: the archipelago includes 11,673 sq km of lagoon waters and
includes the atolls of Bikini, Enewetak, Kwajalein, Majuro,
Rongelap, and Utirik


Area - comparative:

about the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

370.4 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; hot and humid; wet season May to November; islands border
typhoon belt


Terrain:

low coral limestone and sand islands


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: unnamed location on Likiep 10 m


Natural resources:

coconut products, marine products, deep seabed minerals


Land use:

arable land: 11.11%
permanent crops: 44.44%
other: 44.45% (2005)


Irrigated land:

0 sq km


Natural hazards:

infrequent typhoons


Environment - current issues:

inadequate supplies of potable water; pollution of Majuro lagoon
from household waste and discharges from fishing vessels


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone
Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

the Marshall Islands Bikini and Enewetak are former US nuclear test
sites; Kwajalein atoll, famous as a World War II battleground,
surrounds the world's largest lagoon and is used as a US missile
test range; the island city of Ebeye is the second largest
settlement in the Marshall Islands, after the capital of Majuro, and
one of the most densely populated locations in the Pacific


People
Marshall Islands



Population:

63,174 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 38.5% (male 12,404/female 11,946)
15-64 years: 58.6% (male 18,937/female 18,095)
65 years and over: 2.8% (male 869/female 923) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 21 years
male: 21 years
female: 20.9 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.142% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

31.52 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

4.57 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-5.52 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.94 male(s)/female
total population: 1.04 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 26.36 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 29.58 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 22.98 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 70.9 years
male: 68.88 years
female: 73.03 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

3.68 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Marshallese (singular and plural)
adjective: Marshallese


Ethnic groups:

Marshallese 92.1%, mixed Marshallese 5.9%, other 2% (2006)


Religions:

Protestant 54.8%, Assembly of God 25.8%, Roman Catholic 8.4%, Bukot
nan Jesus 2.8%, Mormon 2.1%, other Christian 3.6%, other 1%, none
1.5% (1999 census)


Languages:

Marshallese (official) 98.2%, other languages 1.8% (1999 census)
note: English (official), widely spoken as a second language


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 93.7%
male: 93.6%
female: 93.7% (1999)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 13 years
male: 13 years
female: 13 years (2003)


Education expenditures:

11.8% of GDP (2004)


Government
Marshall Islands



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of the Marshall Islands
conventional short form: Marshall Islands
local long form: Republic of the Marshall Islands
local short form: Marshall Islands
abbreviation: RMI
former: Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, Marshall Islands
District


Government type:

constitutional government in free association with the US; the
Compact of Free Association entered into force 21 October 1986 and
the Amended Compact entered into force in May 2004


Capital:

name: Majuro
geographic coordinates: 7 06 N, 171 23 E
time difference: UTC+12 (17 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

33 municipalities; Ailinginae, Ailinglaplap, Ailuk, Arno, Aur,
Bikar, Bikini, Bokak, Ebon, Enewetak, Erikub, Jabat, Jaluit, Jemo,
Kili, Kwajalein, Lae, Lib, Likiep, Majuro, Maloelap, Mejit, Mili,
Namorik, Namu, Rongelap, Rongrik, Toke, Ujae, Ujelang, Utirik,
Wotho, Wotje


Independence:

21 October 1986 (from the US-administered UN trusteeship)


National holiday:

Constitution Day, 1 May (1979)


Constitution:

1 May 1979


Legal system:

based on adapted Trust Territory laws, acts of the legislature,
municipal, common, and customary laws; has not accepted compulsory
ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Litokwa TOMEING (since 7 January 2008);
note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government
head of government: President Litokwa TOMEING (since 7 January 2008)
cabinet: Cabinet selected by the president from among the members of
the legislature
elections: president elected by Parliament from among its members
for a four-year term; election last held 7 January 2008 (next to be
held in 2012)
election results: Litokwa TOMEING elected president; TOMEING
received 18 votes to 15 for incumbent Kessai Hesa NOTE


Legislative branch:

unicameral legislature or Nitijela (33 seats; members elected by
popular vote to serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 19 November 2007 (next to be held by November
2011)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
independents 4
note: the Council of Chiefs or Ironij is a 12-member body comprised
of tribal chiefs that advises on matters affecting customary law and
practice


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court; High Court; Traditional Rights Court


Political parties and leaders:

traditionally there have been no formally organized political
parties; what has existed more closely resembles factions or
interest groups because they do not have party headquarters, formal
platforms, or party structures; the following two "groupings" have
competed in legislative balloting in recent years - Aelon Kein Ad
Party [Michael KABUA] and United Democratic Party or UDP [Litokwa
TOMEING]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

ACP, ADB, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, IDA, IFC, ILO, IMF,
IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, ITU, OPCW, PIF, Sparteca, SPC, UN, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, WHO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Charles A.
PAUL
chancery: 2433 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 234-5414
FAX: [1] (202) 232-3236
consulate(s) general: Honolulu


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Clyde BISHOP
embassy: Oceanside, Mejen Weto, Long Island, Majuro
mailing address: P. O. Box 1379, Majuro, Republic of the Marshall
Islands 96960-1379
telephone: [692] 247-4011
FAX: [692] 247-4012


Flag description:

blue with two stripes radiating from the lower hoist-side corner -
orange (top) and white; there is a white star with four large rays
and 20 small rays on the hoist side above the two stripes


Economy
Marshall Islands



Economy - overview:

US Government assistance is the mainstay of this tiny island
economy. The Marshall Islands received more than $1 billion in aid
from the US from 1986-2002. Agricultural production, primarily
subsistence, is concentrated on small farms; the most important
commercial crops are coconuts and breadfruit. Small-scale industry
is limited to handicrafts, tuna processing, and copra. The tourist
industry, now a small source of foreign exchange employing less than
10% of the labor force, remains the best hope for future added
income. The islands have few natural resources, and imports far
exceed exports. Under the terms of the Amended Compact of Free
Association, the US will provide millions of dollars per year to the
Marshall Islands (RMI) through 2023, at which time a Trust Fund made
up of US and RMI contributions will begin perpetual annual payouts.
Government downsizing, drought, a drop in construction, the decline
in tourism, and less income from the renewal of fishing vessel
licenses have held GDP growth to an average of 1% over the past
decade.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$115 million (2001 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$144 million (2005)


GDP - real growth rate:

3.5% (2005 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$2,900 (2005 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 31.7%
industry: 14.9%
services: 53.4% (2004 est.)


Labor force:

14,680 (2000)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 21.4%
industry: 20.9%
services: 57.7% (2000)


Unemployment rate:

30.9% (2000 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $42 million
expenditures: $40 million (1999)


Fiscal year:

1 October - 30 September


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

3% (2005 est.)


Agriculture - products:

coconuts, tomatoes, melons, taro, breadfruit, fruits; pigs, chickens


Industries:

copra, tuna processing, tourism, craft items (from seashells, wood,
and pearls)


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 99%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 1% (solar)


Exports:

$9.1 million f.o.b. (2000)


Exports - commodities:

copra cake, coconut oil, handicrafts, fish


Exports - partners:

US, Japan, Australia, China (2006)


Imports:

$54.7 million f.o.b. (2000)


Imports - commodities:

foodstuffs, machinery and equipment, fuels, beverages and tobacco


Imports - partners:

US, Japan, Australia, NZ, Singapore, Fiji, China, Philippines (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$56.56 million (2005)


Debt - external:

$86.5 million (FY99/00 est.)


Currency (code):

US dollar (USD)


Currency code:

USD


Exchange rates:

the US dollar is used


Communications
Marshall Islands



Telephones - main lines in use:

4,500 (2004)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

700 (2005)


Telephone system:

general assessment: digital switching equipment; modern services
include telex, cellular, Internet, international calling, caller ID,
and leased data circuits
domestic: Majuro Atoll and Ebeye and Kwajalein islands have regular,
seven-digit, direct-dial telephones; other islands interconnected by
high frequency radiotelephone (used mostly for government purposes)
and mini-satellite telephones
international: country code - 692; satellite earth stations - 2
Intelsat (Pacific Ocean); US Government satellite communications
system on Kwajalein (2005)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 3, shortwave 0 (additionally, the US Armed Forces Radio and
Television Services (Central Pacific Network) operate one FM and one
AM station on Kwajalein) (2005)


Radios:

NA


Television broadcast stations:

2 (both are US military stations; Marshalls Broadcasting Service, a
cable company, operates on Majuro) (2005)


Televisions:

NA


Internet country code:

.mh


Internet hosts:

3 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2002)


Internet users:

2,200 (2006)


Transportation
Marshall Islands



Airports:

15 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 4
1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 11
914 to 1,523 m: 10
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 2,028 km (includes 75 km of expressways) (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 1,049
by type: barge carrier 1, bulk carrier 284, cargo 71, carrier 1,
chemical tanker 191, combination ore/oil 4, container 188, liquefied
gas 47, passenger 5, passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 221,
refrigerated cargo 13, roll on/roll off 14, specialized tanker 2,
vehicle carrier 6
foreign-owned: 990 (Australia 1, Bermuda 4, Brazil 1, Canada 6,
Chile 4, China 7, Croatia 6, Cyprus 37, Denmark 10, Germany 235,
Greece 269, Hong Kong 4, Iceland 3, India 1, Ireland 1, Isle of Man
1, Italy 3, Japan 17, South Korea 10, Latvia 16, Malaysia 3, Mexico
4, Monaco 13, Netherlands 8, Norway 66, Pakistan 1, Panama 1,
Romania 1, Russia 9, Saudi Arabia 5, Singapore 18, Slovenia 4, Spain
1, Sweden 1, Switzerland 12, Taiwan 1, Turkey 50, UAE 15, UK 9, UK
9, US 123) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Majuro


Military
Marshall Islands



Military branches:

no regular military forces; under the 1983 Compact of Free
Association, the US has full authority and responsibility for
security and defense of the Marshall Islands; Marshall Islands
Police (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 15,708 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 12,864 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 512
female: 494 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

NA


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of the US


Transnational Issues
Marshall Islands



Disputes - international:

claims US territory of Wake Island



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Mauritania

Introduction
Mauritania



Background:

Independent from France in 1960, Mauritania annexed the southern
third of the former Spanish Sahara (now Western Sahara) in 1976, but
relinquished it after three years of raids by the Polisario
guerrilla front seeking independence for the territory. Maaouya Ould
Sid Ahmed TAYA seized power in a coup in 1984 and ruled Mauritania
with a heavy hand for over two decades. A series of presidential
elections that he held were widely seen as flawed. A bloodless coup
in August 2005 deposed President TAYA and ushered in a military
council that oversaw a transition to democratic rule. Independent
candidate Sidi Ould Cheikh ABDALLAHI was inaugurated in April 2007
as Mauritania's first freely and fairly elected president. His term
ended prematurely in August 2008 when a coup deposed him and ushered
in a military council government. Meanwhile, the country continues
to experience ethnic tensions among its black population
(Afro-Mauritanians) and White and Black Moor (Arab-Berber)
communities.


Geography
Mauritania



Location:

Northern Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean, between Senegal
and Western Sahara


Geographic coordinates:

20 00 N, 12 00 W


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 1,030,700 sq km
land: 1,030,400 sq km
water: 300 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than three times the size of New Mexico


Land boundaries:

total: 5,074 km
border countries: Algeria 463 km, Mali 2,237 km, Senegal 813 km,
Western Sahara 1,561 km


Coastline:

754 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin


Climate:

desert; constantly hot, dry, dusty


Terrain:

mostly barren, flat plains of the Sahara; some central hills


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Sebkhet Te-n-Dghamcha -5 m
highest point: Kediet Ijill 915 m


Natural resources:

iron ore, gypsum, copper, phosphate, diamonds, gold, oil, fish


Land use:

arable land: 0.2%
permanent crops: 0.01%
other: 99.79% (2005)


Irrigated land:

490 sq km (2002)


Total renewable water resources:

11.4 cu km (1997)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 1.7 cu km/yr (9%/3%/88%)
per capita: 554 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

hot, dry, dust/sand-laden sirocco wind blows primarily in March and
April; periodic droughts


Environment - current issues:

overgrazing, deforestation, and soil erosion aggravated by drought
are contributing to desertification; limited natural fresh water
resources away from the Senegal, which is the only perennial river;
locust infestation


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

most of the population concentrated in the cities of Nouakchott and
Nouadhibou and along the Senegal River in the southern part of the
country


People
Mauritania



Population:

3,364,940 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 45.3% (male 763,845/female 759,957)
15-64 years: 52.5% (male 872,924/female 894,980)
65 years and over: 2.2% (male 29,147/female 44,087) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 17.2 years
male: 16.9 years
female: 17.4 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.852% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

40.14 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

11.61 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.66 male(s)/female
total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 66.65 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 69.69 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 63.52 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 53.91 years
male: 51.61 years
female: 56.28 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

5.69 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.6% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

9,500 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 500 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: malaria and Rift Valley fever (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Mauritanian(s)
adjective: Mauritanian


Ethnic groups:

mixed Moor/black 40%, Moor 30%, black 30%


Religions:

Muslim 100%


Languages:

Arabic (official and national), Pulaar, Soninke, Wolof (all national
languages), French, Hassaniya


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 51.2%
male: 59.5%
female: 43.4% (2000 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 8 years
male: 8 years
female: 8 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

2.9% of GDP (2006)


Government
Mauritania



Country name:

conventional long form: Islamic Republic of Mauritania
conventional short form: Mauritania
local long form: Al Jumhuriyah al Islamiyah al Muritaniyah
local short form: Muritaniyah


Government type:

Democratic Republic


Capital:

name: Nouakchott
geographic coordinates: 18 07 N, 16 02 W
time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

12 regions (regions, singular - region) and 1 capital district*;
Adrar, Assaba, Brakna, Dakhlet Nouadhibou, Gorgol, Guidimaka, Hodh
Ech Chargui, Hodh El Gharbi, Inchiri, Nouakchott*, Tagant, Tiris
Zemmour, Trarza


Independence:

28 November 1960 (from France)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 28 November (1960)


Constitution:

12 July 1991


Legal system:

a combination of Islamic law and French civil law; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Gen. Mohamed Ould Abdel AZIZ who led a coup that
deposed the democratically elected President Sidi Ould Cheikh
ABDELLAHI on 6 August 2008
head of government: Prime Minister Moulaye Ould Mohamed LAGHDAF
(since 14 August 2008)
cabinet: Council of Ministers
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a second consecutive term); election last held 11
March 2007 with a runoff between the two leading candidates held on
25 March 2007 (next to be held 2012); prime minister appointed by
the president
election results: percent of vote - (second round) Sidi Ould Cheikh
ABDELLAHI 52.8%, Ahmed Ould DADDAH 47.2%


Legislative branch:

bicameral legislature consists of the Senate or Majlis al-Shuyukh
(56 seats; 53 members elected by municipal leaders and 3 members
elected by Mauritanians abroad to serve six-year terms; a portion of
seats up for election every two years) and the National Assembly or
Majlis al-Watani (95 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve
five-year terms)
elections: Senate - last held 21 January and 4 February 2007 (next
to be held 2009); National Assembly - last held 19 November and 3
December 2006 (next to be held in 2011)
election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - Mithaq (coalition of independents and parties associated
with the former regime) 37, CFCD (coalition of political parties)
15, representatives of the diaspora 3, undecided 1; National
Assembly - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - Mithaq 51
(independents 37, PRDR 7, UDP 3, RDU 3, Alternative (El-Badil) 1),
CFCD 41 (RFD 16, UFP 9, APP 6, Centrist Reformists 4, HATEM-PMUC 3,
RD 2, PUDS 1), RNDLE 1, UCD 1, FP 1


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court or Cour Supreme; Court of Appeals; lower courts


Political parties and leaders:

Alternative or El-Badil; Centrist Reformists (independent moderate
Islamists); Coalition for Forces for Democratic Change or CFCD
(coalition of political parties including APP, Centrist Reformists
(independent moderate Islamists), HATEM-PMUC, PUDS, RD, RFD, UFP);
Democratic and Social Republican Party or PRDS; Democratic Renewal
or RD; Mauritanian Party for Unity and Change or HATEM-PMUC; Mithaq
(coalition of independents and parties associated with the former
regime including Alternative or El-Badil, PRDR, UDP, RDU); National
Rally for Freedom, Democracy and Equality or RNDLE; Popular Front or
FP [Ch'bih Ould CHEIKH MALAININE]; Popular Progressive Alliance or
APP [Messoud Ould BOULKHEIR]; Rally of Democratic Forces or RFD
[Ahmed Ould DADDAH]; Rally for Democracy and Unity or RDU [Ahmed
Ould SIDI BABA]; Republican Party for Democracy and Renewal or PRDR
[Boullah Ould MOGUEYA] (formerly ruling Democratic and Social
Republican Party or PRDS); Socialist and Democratic Unity Party or
PUDS; Union for Democracy and Progress or UDP [Naha Mint MOUKNASS];
Union of Democratic Centre or UCD; Union of the Forces for Progress
or UFP


Political pressure groups and leaders:

General Confederation of Mauritanian Workers or CGTM [Abdallahi Ould
MOHAMED, secretary general]; Independent Confederation of
Mauritanian Workers or CLTM [Samory Ould BEYE]; Mauritanian Workers
Union or UTM [Mohamed Ely Ould BRAHIM, secretary general]
other: Arab nationalists; Ba'thists; Islamists


International organization participation:

ABEDA, ACP, AfDB, AFESD, AMF, AMU, AU, CAEU, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol,
IOC, IOM, IPU, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAS, MIGA, NAM, OIC, OIF, OPCW, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Ibrahima DIA
chancery: 2129 Leroy Place NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 232-5700, 5701
FAX: [1] (202) 319-2623


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Mark M. BOULWARE
embassy: 288 Rue Abdallaye, Rue 42-100 (between Presidency building
and Spanish Embassy), Nouakchott
mailing address: BP 222, Nouakchott
telephone: [222] 525-2660/525-2663
FAX: [222] 525-1592


Flag description:

green with a yellow five-pointed star above a yellow, horizontal
crescent; the closed side of the crescent is down; the crescent,
star, and color green are traditional symbols of Islam


Economy
Mauritania



Economy - overview:

Half the population still depends on agriculture and livestock for a
livelihood, even though many of the nomads and subsistence farmers
were forced into the cities by recurrent droughts in the 1970s and
1980s. Mauritania has extensive deposits of iron ore, which account
for nearly 40% of total exports. The nation's coastal waters are
among the richest fishing areas in the world, but overexploitation
by foreigners threatens this key source of revenue. The country's
first deepwater port opened near Nouakchott in 1986. In the past,
drought and economic mismanagement resulted in a buildup of foreign
debt, which now stands at more than three times the level of annual
exports. In February 2000, Mauritania qualified for debt relief
under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative and in
December 2001 received strong support from donor and lending
countries at a triennial Consultative Group review. A new investment
code approved in December 2001 improved the opportunities for direct
foreign investment. Ongoing negotiations with the IMF involve
problems of economic reforms and fiscal discipline. In 2001,
exploratory oil wells in tracts 80 km offshore indicated potential
extraction at current world oil prices. Oil prospects, while
initially promising, have failed to materialize. Meantime the
government emphasizes reduction of poverty, improvement of health
and education, and promoting privatization of the economy.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$5.974 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$2.756 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

1% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$1,800 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 25%
industry: 29%
services: 46% (2001 est.)


Labor force:

786,000 (2001)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 50%
industry: 10%
services: 40% (2001 est.)


Unemployment rate:

20% (2004 est.)


Population below poverty line:

40% (2004 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.5%
highest 10%: 29.5% (2000)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

39 (2000)


Budget:

revenues: $421 million
expenditures: $378 million (2002 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

7.3% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

NA


Stock of money:

NA (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

NA (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

NA (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

dates, millet, sorghum, rice, corn; cattle, sheep


Industries:

fish processing, mining of iron ore and gypsum


Industrial production growth rate:

2% (2000 est.)


Electricity - production:

412.3 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

383.4 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 85.9%
hydro: 14.1%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

14,990 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

19,320 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

23,630 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

100 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

28.32 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$184 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$1.395 billion f.o.b. (2006)


Exports - commodities:

iron ore, fish and fish products, gold


Exports - partners:

China 30.5%, France 9.5%, Italy 8.5%, Spain 8.5%, Japan 5.5%,
Netherlands 5.3%, Belgium 5%, Cote d'Ivoire 4.7% (2007)


Imports:

$1.475 billion f.o.b. (2006)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, petroleum products, capital goods,
foodstuffs, consumer goods


Imports - partners:

France 16.5%, China 8.1%, Spain 6.7%, US 6.1%, Belgium 5.8%, Brazil
5.7% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$190.4 million (2005)


Debt - external:

NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

ouguiya (MRO)


Currency code:

MRO


Exchange rates:

ouguiyas (MRO) per US dollar - NA (2007), 271.3 (2006), 267.04
(2005), 265.8 (2004), 263.03 (2003)


Communications
Mauritania



Telephones - main lines in use:

34,900 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

1.3 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: limited system of cable and open-wire lines,
minor microwave radio relay links, and radiotelephone communications
stations; mobile-cellular services expanding rapidly
domestic: Mauritel, the national telecommunications company, was
privatized in 2001 but remains the monopoly provider of fixed-line
services; fixed-line teledensity 1 per 100 persons; mobile-cellular
network coverage extends mainly to urban areas with a teledensity
approaching 40 per 100 persons; mostly cable and open-wire lines; a
domestic satellite telecommunications system links Nouakchott with
regional capitals
international: country code - 222; satellite earth stations - 3 (1
Intelsat - Atlantic Ocean, 2 Arabsat)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 14, shortwave 1 (2001)


Radios:

410,000 (2001)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (2002)


Televisions:

98,000 (2001)


Internet country code:

.mr


Internet hosts:

34 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

5 (2001)


Internet users:

30,000 (2006)


Transportation
Mauritania



Airports:

25 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 8
2,438 to 3,047 m: 3
1,524 to 2,437 m: 5 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 17
1,524 to 2,437 m: 9
914 to 1,523 m: 7
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Railways:

717 km
standard gauge: 717 km 1.435-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 11,066 km
paved: 2,966 km
unpaved: 8,100 km (2006)


Ports and terminals:

Nouadhibou, Nouakchott


Military
Mauritania



Military branches:

Mauritanian Armed Forces: Army, Mauritanian Navy (Marine
Mauritanienne; includes naval infantry), Islamic Air Force of
Mauritania (Force Aerienne Islamique de Mauritanie, FAIM) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age (est.); conscript service obligation - 2 years;
majority of servicemen believed to be volunteers; service in Air
Force and Navy is voluntary (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 740,675
females age 16-49: 744,709 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 463,305
females age 16-49: 484,777 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 38,191
female: 38,638 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

5.5% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Mauritania



Disputes - international:

Mauritanian claims to Western Sahara remain dormant



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Mauritius

Introduction
Mauritius



Background:

Although known to Arab and Malay sailors as early as the 10th
century, Mauritius was first explored by the Portuguese in the 16th
century and subsequently settled by the Dutch - who named it in
honor of Prince Maurits van NASSAU - in the 17th century. The French
assumed control in 1715, developing the island into an important
naval base overseeing Indian Ocean trade, and establishing a
plantation economy of sugar cane. The British captured the island in
1810, during the Napoleonic Wars. Mauritius remained a strategically
important British naval base, and later an air station, playing an
important role during World War II for anti-submarine and convoy
operations, as well as the collection of signals intelligence.
Independence from the UK was attained in 1968. A stable democracy
with regular free elections and a positive human rights record, the
country has attracted considerable foreign investment and has earned
one of Africa's highest per capita incomes. Recent poor weather,
declining sugar prices, and declining textile and apparel
production, have slowed economic growth, leading to some protests
over standards of living in the Creole community.


Geography
Mauritius



Location:

Southern Africa, island in the Indian Ocean, east of Madagascar


Geographic coordinates:

20 17 S, 57 33 E


Map references:

Political Map of the World


Area:

total: 2,040 sq km
land: 2,030 sq km
water: 10 sq km
note: includes Agalega Islands, Cargados Carajos Shoals (Saint
Brandon), and Rodrigues


Area - comparative:

almost 11 times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

177 km


Maritime claims:

measured from claimed archipelagic straight baselines
territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin


Climate:

tropical, modified by southeast trade winds; warm, dry winter (May
to November); hot, wet, humid summer (November to May)


Terrain:

small coastal plain rising to discontinuous mountains encircling
central plateau


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
highest point: Mont Piton 828 m


Natural resources:

arable land, fish


Land use:

arable land: 49.02%
permanent crops: 2.94%
other: 48.04% (2005)


Irrigated land:

220 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

2.2 cu km (2001)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.61 cu km/yr (25%/14%/60%)
per capita: 488 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

cyclones (November to April); almost completely surrounded by reefs
that may pose maritime hazards


Environment - current issues:

water pollution, degradation of coral reefs


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Biodiversity, Climate
Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered
Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

the main island, from which the country derives its name, is of
volcanic origin and is almost entirely surrounded by coral reefs;
home of the dodo, a large flightless bird related to pigeons, driven
to extinction by the end of the 17th century through a combination
of hunting and the introduction of predatory species


People
Mauritius



Population:

1,274,189 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 23% (male 148,573/female 143,859)
15-64 years: 70.1% (male 443,968/female 449,670)
65 years and over: 6.9% (male 35,269/female 52,850) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 31.5 years
male: 30.6 years
female: 32.3 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.8% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

14.64 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

6.55 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-0.09 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.67 male(s)/female
total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 12.56 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 14.94 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 10.06 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 73.75 years
male: 70.28 years
female: 77.4 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.83 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

700 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 100 (2001 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Mauritian(s)
adjective: Mauritian


Ethnic groups:

Indo-Mauritian 68%, Creole 27%, Sino-Mauritian 3%, Franco-Mauritian
2%


Religions:

Hindu 48%, Roman Catholic 23.6%, Muslim 16.6%, other Christian 8.6%,
other 2.5%, unspecified 0.3%, none 0.4% (2000 census)


Languages:

Creole 80.5%, Bhojpuri 12.1%, French 3.4%, English (official; spoken
by less than 1% of the population), other 3.7%, unspecified 0.3%
(2000 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 84.4%
male: 88.4%
female: 80.5% (2000 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 14 years
male: 14 years
female: 13 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

3.9% of GDP (2006)


Government
Mauritius



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Mauritius
conventional short form: Mauritius
local long form: Republic of Mauritius
local short form: Mauritius


Government type:

parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Port Louis
geographic coordinates: 20 09 S, 57 29 E
time difference: UTC+4 (9 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

9 districts and 3 dependencies*; Agalega Islands*, Black River,
Cargados Carajos Shoals*, Flacq, Grand Port, Moka, Pamplemousses,
Plaines Wilhems, Port Louis, Riviere du Rempart, Rodrigues*, Savanne


Independence:

12 March 1968 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 12 March (1968)


Constitution:

12 March 1968; amended 12 March 1992


Legal system:

based on French civil law system with elements of English common law
in certain areas; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with
reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Sir Anerood JUGNAUTH (since 7 October
2003); Vice President Abdool Raouf BUNDHUN (since 25 February 2002)
head of government: Prime Minister Navinchandra RAMGOOLAM (since 5
July 2005)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
recommendation of the prime minister
elections: president and vice president elected by the National
Assembly for five-year terms (eligible for a second term); election
last held 19 September 2008 (next to be held in 2013); prime
minister and deputy prime minister appointed by the president,
responsible to the National Assembly
election results: Sir Anerood JUGNAUTH reelected president by
unanimous vote; percent of vote by the National Assembly - NA%


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly (70 seats; 62 members elected by
popular vote, 8 appointed by the election commission to give
representation to various ethnic minorities; to serve five-year
terms)
elections: last held on 3 July 2005 (next to be held in 2010)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - AS
38, MSM/MMM 22, OPR 2; appointed seats - AS 4, MSM/MMM 2, OPR 2


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court


Political parties and leaders:

Alliance Sociale or AS [Navinchandra RAMGOOLAM] (governing coalition
- includes MLD, MMSM, MR, MSD, PMXD); Mauritian Labor Party or MLP
[Navinchandra RAMGOOLAM]; Mauritian Militant Movement or MMM [Paul
BERENGER]; Mauritian Socialist Militant Movement or MMSM [Madan
DOLLOO]; Militant Socialist Movement or MSM [Nando BODHA]; Mouvement
Republicain or MR [Jayarama VALAYDEN]; Parti Mauricien Xavier Duval
or PMXD [Xavier Luc DUVAL]; Rodrigues Movement or MR [Joseph
(Nicholas) Von MALLY]; Rodrigues Peoples Organization or OPR [Serge
CLAIR]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

other: various labor unions


International organization participation:

ACP, AfDB, AU, C, COMESA, CPLP (associate), FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO,
InOC, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OIF,
OPCW, PCA, SAARC (observer), SADC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO,
UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Keerteecoomar RUHEE
chancery: 4301 Connecticut Avenue NW, Suite 441, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 244-1491, 1492
FAX: [1] (202) 966-0983


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Cesar CABRERA
embassy: 4th Floor, Rogers House, John Kennedy Street, Port Louis
mailing address: international mail: P. O. Box 544, Port Louis; US
mail: American Embassy, Port Louis, US Department of State,
Washington, DC 20521-2450
telephone: [230] 202-4400
FAX: [230] 208-9534


Flag description:

four equal horizontal bands of red (top), blue, yellow, and green


Economy
Mauritius



Economy - overview:

Since independence in 1968, Mauritius has developed from a
low-income, agriculturally based economy to a middle-income
diversified economy with growing industrial, financial, and tourist
sectors. For most of the period, annual growth has been in the order
of 5% to 6%. This remarkable achievement has been reflected in more
equitable income distribution, increased life expectancy, lowered
infant mortality, and a much-improved infrastructure. The economy
rests on sugar, tourism, textiles and apparel, and financial
services, and is expanding into fish processing, information and
communications technology, and hospitality and property development.
Sugarcane is grown on about 90% of the cultivated land area and
accounts for 15% of export earnings. The government's development
strategy centers on creating vertical and horizontal clusters of
development in these sectors. Mauritius has attracted more than
32,000 offshore entities, many aimed at commerce in India, South
Africa, and China. Investment in the banking sector alone has
reached over $1 billion. Mauritius, with its strong textile sector,
has been well poised to take advantage of the Africa Growth and
Opportunity Act (AGOA).


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$14.27 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$6.959 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

5.4% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$11,300 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 4.8%
industry: 25%
services: 70.1% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

574,000 (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture and fishing 9%, construction and industry 30%,
transportation and communication 7%, trade, restaurants, hotels 22%,
finance 6%, other services 25% (2007)


Unemployment rate:

8.8% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

8% (2006 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

39 (2006 est.)


Investment (gross fixed):

25.1% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $1.344 billion
expenditures: $1.773 billion; including capital expenditures of $NA
(2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 July - 30 June


Public debt:

63.1% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

8.8% (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

21.87% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$1.673 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$6.759 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$8.582 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

sugarcane, tea, corn, potatoes, bananas, pulses; cattle, goats; fish


Industries:

food processing (largely sugar milling), textiles, clothing, mining,
chemicals, metal products, transport equipment, nonelectrical
machinery, tourism


Industrial production growth rate:

4.7% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

2.321 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

2.058 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 90.8%
hydro: 9.2%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

22,450 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2006)


Oil - imports:

23,650 bbl/day (2006)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$408.3 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$2.231 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

clothing and textiles, sugar, cut flowers, molasses, fish


Exports - partners:

UK 35.1%, France 14.4%, US 7.7%, Madagascar 6.3%, Italy 5.8% (2007)


Imports:

$3.656 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

manufactured goods, capital equipment, foodstuffs, petroleum
products, chemicals


Imports - partners:

India 21.2%, China 11.4%, France 10.7%, South Africa 7.4% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$31.93 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$1.822 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$2.149 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$NA


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$5.7 billion (2007)


Currency (code):

Mauritian rupee (MUR)


Currency code:

MUR


Exchange rates:

Mauritian rupees (MUR) per US dollar - 31.798 (2007), 31.656 (2006),
29.496 (2005), 27.499 (2004), 27.902 (2003)


Communications
Mauritius



Telephones - main lines in use:

357,300 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

936,000 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: small system with good service
domestic: monopoly over fixed-line services terminated in 2005;
fixed-line teledensity roughly 30 per 100 persons; mobile-cellular
services launched in 1989 with teledensity in 2007 reaching 75 per
100 persons
international: country code - 230; landing point for the SAFE
submarine cable that provides links to Asia and South Africa where
it connects to the SAT-3/WASC submarine cable that provides further
links to parts of East Africa, and Europe; satellite earth station -
1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean); new microwave link to Reunion; HF
radiotelephone links to several countries


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 4, FM 9, shortwave 0 (2001)


Radios:

420,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

2 (plus several repeaters) (1997)


Televisions:

258,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.mu


Internet hosts:

9,609 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

2 (2000)


Internet users:

340,000 (2007)


Transportation
Mauritius



Airports:

5 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 2
over 3,047 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 3
914 to 1,523 m: 2
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 2,028 km
paved: 2,028 km (includes 75 km of expressways) (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 3
by type: passenger/cargo 2, refrigerated cargo 1 (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Port Louis


Military
Mauritius



Military branches:

no regular military forces; National Police Force, Special Mobile
Force, National Coast Guard (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 341,018 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 11,089
female: 10,843 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0.3% of GDP (2006 est.)


Transnational Issues
Mauritius



Disputes - international:

Mauritius claims the Chagos Archipelago (UK-administered British
Indian Ocean Territory), and its former inhabitants, who reside
chiefly in Mauritius; claims French-administered Tromelin Island


Illicit drugs:

consumer and transshipment point for heroin from South Asia; small
amounts of cannabis produced and consumed locally; significant
offshore financial industry creates potential for money laundering,
but corruption levels are relatively low and the government appears
generally to be committed to regulating its banking industry



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Mayotte

Introduction
Mayotte



Background:

Mayotte was ceded to France along with the other islands of the
Comoros group in 1843. It was the only island in the archipelago
that voted in 1974 to retain its link with France and forego
independence.


Geography
Mayotte



Location:

Southern Indian Ocean, island in the Mozambique Channel, about half
way between northern Madagascar and northern Mozambique


Geographic coordinates:

12 50 S, 45 10 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 374 sq km
land: 374 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly more than twice the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

185.2 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; marine; hot, humid, rainy season during northeastern
monsoon (November to May); dry season is cooler (May to November)


Terrain:

generally undulating, with deep ravines and ancient volcanic peaks


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
highest point: Benara 660 m


Natural resources:

NEGL


Land use:

arable land: NA%
permanent crops: NA%
other: NA%


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

cyclones during rainy season


Environment - current issues:

NA


Geography - note:

part of Comoro Archipelago (18 islands)


People
Mayotte



Population:

216,306 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 45.5% (male 49,521/female 48,996)
15-64 years: 52.7% (male 61,267/female 52,641)
65 years and over: 1.8% (male 1,971/female 1,910) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 17.2 years
male: 18.1 years
female: 16.2 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

3.465% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

39.79 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

7.36 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

2.22 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.16 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 1.03 male(s)/female
total population: 1.09 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 57.88 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 63.59 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 52 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 62.54 years
male: 60.3 years
female: 64.85 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

5.6 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Mahorais (singular and plural)
adjective: Mahoran


Ethnic groups:

NA


Religions:

Muslim 97%, Christian (mostly Roman Catholic) 3%


Languages:

Mahorian (a Swahili dialect), French (official language) spoken by
35% of the population


Literacy:

NA


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Mayotte



Country name:

conventional long form: Territorial Collectivity of Mayotte
conventional short form: Mayotte


Dependency status:

departmental collectivity of France


Government type:

NA


Capital:

name: Mamoudzou
geographic coordinates: 12 46 S, 45 13 E
time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

none (territorial overseas collectivity of France)


Independence:

none (territorial overseas collectivity of France)


National holiday:

Bastille Day, 14 July (1789)


Constitution:

4 October 1958 (French Constitution)


Legal system:

the laws of France, where applicable, apply


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Nicolas SARKOZY (since 16 May 2007);
represented by Prefect Denis ROBIN (since 28 July 2008)
head of government: President of the General Council Said Omar OILI
(since 8 April 2004)
cabinet: NA
elections: French president elected by popular vote for a five-year
term; prefect appointed by the French president on the advice of the
French Ministry of the Interior; president of the General Council
elected by the members of the General Council for a six-year term;
next election to be held in 2010


Legislative branch:

unicameral General Council or Conseil General (19 seats; members are
elected by popular vote to serve three-year terms)
elections: last held 21 and 28 March 2004 (next to be held in 2007)
election results: percent of vote by party - MDM 23.3%, UMP 22.8%,
PS 10.2%, MRC 8.9%, FRAP 6.5%, MPM 1.2%, other 27.1%; seats by party
- MDM 6, UMP 9, MRC 2, MPM 1, diverse left 1
note: Mayotte elects one member of the French Senate; elections last
held 24 September 2001 (next to be held in September 2007); results
- percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - NA; Mayotte also
elects one member to the French National Assembly; elections last
held 16 June 2002 (next to be held in 2007); results - percent of
vote by party - UMP-RPR 55.1%, UDF 44.9%; seats by party - UMP-RPR 1


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court or Tribunal Superieur d'Appel


Political parties and leaders:

Democratic Front or FD [Youssouf MOUSSA]; Mahoran Popular Movement
or MPM [Ahmed MADI]; Federation of Mahorans or UMP-RPR [Mansour
KAMARDINE]; Force of the Rally and the Alliance for Democracy or
FRAP; Movement for Department Status Mayotte or MDM [Mouhoutar
SALIM]; Renewed Communist Party of Mayotte or MRC [Omar SIMBA];
Socialist Party or PS [Ibrahim ABUBACAR] (local branch of French
Parti Socialiste); Union for French Democracy or UDF [Henri
JEAN-BAPTISTE]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

InOC, UPU, WFTU


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (territorial overseas collectivity of France)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (territorial overseas collectivity of France)


Flag description:

unofficial, local flag with the coat of arms of Mayotte centered on
a white field, above which the name of the island appears in red
capital letters; the main elements of the coat of arms, flanked on
either side by a seahorse, appear above a scroll with the motto RA
HACHIRI (We are Vigilant); the only official flag is the national
flag of France


Economy
Mayotte



Economy - overview:

Economic activity is based primarily on the agricultural sector,
including fishing and livestock raising. Mayotte is not
self-sufficient and must import a large portion of its food
requirements, mainly from France. The economy and future development
of the island are heavily dependent on French financial assistance,
an important supplement to GDP. Mayotte's remote location is an
obstacle to the development of tourism.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$953.6 million (2005 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$NA


GDP - real growth rate:

NA%


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$4,900 (2005 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: NA%
industry: NA%
services: NA%


Labor force:

44,560 (2002)


Unemployment rate:

25.4% (2005)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $420 million
expenditures: $394 million (2005)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

1.7% (2005)


Agriculture - products:

vanilla, ylang-ylang (perfume essence), coffee, copra, fish,
livestock


Industries:

newly created lobster and shrimp industry, construction


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

NA kWh


Electricity - consumption:

139.2 million kWh (2005)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 0%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0%


Exports:

$6.5 million f.o.b. (2005)


Exports - commodities:

ylang-ylang (perfume essence), vanilla, copra, coconuts, coffee,
cinnamon


Exports - partners:

France 43%, Comoros 36%, Reunion 15% (2006)


Imports:

$341 million f.o.b.; note - excludes petroleum imports (2005)


Imports - commodities:

food, machinery and equipment, transportation equipment, metals,
chemicals


Imports - partners:

France 49%, Seychelles 8.8%, China 4.1% (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$201.3 million; note - extensive French financial assistance (2005)


Debt - external:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

euro (EUR)


Currency code:

EUR


Exchange rates:

euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006), 0.8041
(2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)


Communications
Mayotte



Telephones - main lines in use:

10,000 (2002)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

48,100 (2005)


Telephone system:

general assessment: small system administered by French Department
of Posts and Telecommunications
domestic: NA
international: country code - 262; microwave radio relay and HF
radiotelephone communications to Comoros


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 5, shortwave 0 (2001)


Radios:

NA


Television broadcast stations:

3 (2001)


Televisions:

3,500 (1994)


Internet country code:

.yt


Internet hosts:

1 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

NA


Internet users:

NA


Transportation
Mayotte



Airports:

1 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)


Ports and terminals:

Dzaoudzi


Military
Mayotte



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 2,407
female: 2,401 (2008 est.)


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of France; a small contingent of
French forces is stationed on the island


Transnational Issues
Mayotte



Disputes - international:

claimed by Comoros



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Mexico

Introduction
Mexico



Background:

The site of advanced Amerindian civilizations, Mexico came under
Spanish rule for three centuries before achieving independence early
in the 19th century. A devaluation of the peso in late 1994 threw
Mexico into economic turmoil, triggering the worst recession in over
half a century. The nation continues to make an impressive recovery.
Ongoing economic and social concerns include low real wages,
underemployment for a large segment of the population, inequitable
income distribution, and few advancement opportunities for the
largely Amerindian population in the impoverished southern states.
The elections held in 2000 marked the first time since the 1910
Mexican Revolution that an opposition candidate - Vicente FOX of the
National Action Party (PAN) - defeated the party in government, the
Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI). He was succeeded in 2006 by
another PAN candidate Felipe CALDERON.


Geography
Mexico



Location:

Middle America, bordering the Caribbean Sea and the Gulf of Mexico,
between Belize and the US and bordering the North Pacific Ocean,
between Guatemala and the US


Geographic coordinates:

23 00 N, 102 00 W


Map references:

North America


Area:

total: 1,972,550 sq km
land: 1,923,040 sq km
water: 49,510 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly less than three times the size of Texas


Land boundaries:

total: 4,353 km
border countries: Belize 250 km, Guatemala 962 km, US 3,141 km


Coastline:

9,330 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin


Climate:

varies from tropical to desert


Terrain:

high, rugged mountains; low coastal plains; high plateaus; desert


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Laguna Salada -10 m
highest point: Volcan Pico de Orizaba 5,700 m


Natural resources:

petroleum, silver, copper, gold, lead, zinc, natural gas, timber


Land use:

arable land: 12.66%
permanent crops: 1.28%
other: 86.06% (2005)


Irrigated land:

63,200 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

457.2 cu km (2000)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 78.22 cu km/yr (17%/5%/77%)
per capita: 731 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

tsunamis along the Pacific coast, volcanoes and destructive
earthquakes in the center and south, and hurricanes on the Pacific,
Gulf of Mexico, and Caribbean coasts


Environment - current issues:

scarcity of hazardous waste disposal facilities; rural to urban
migration; natural fresh water resources scarce and polluted in
north, inaccessible and poor quality in center and extreme
southeast; raw sewage and industrial effluents polluting rivers in
urban areas; deforestation; widespread erosion; desertification;
deteriorating agricultural lands; serious air and water pollution in
the national capital and urban centers along US-Mexico border; land
subsidence in Valley of Mexico caused by groundwater depletion
note: the government considers the lack of clean water and
deforestation national security issues


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

strategic location on southern border of US; corn (maize), one of
the world's major grain crops, is thought to have originated in
Mexico


People
Mexico



Population:

109,955,400 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 29.6% (male 16,619,995/female 15,936,154)
15-64 years: 64.3% (male 34,179,440/female 36,530,154)
65 years and over: 6.1% (male 3,023,185/female 3,666,472) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 26 years
male: 24.9 years
female: 27 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.142% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

20.04 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

4.78 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-3.84 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.94 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.82 male(s)/female
total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 19.01 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 20.91 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 17.02 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 75.84 years
male: 73.05 years
female: 78.78 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.37 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.3% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

160,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

5,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: intermediate
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever
vectorborne disease: dengue fever
water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Mexican(s)
adjective: Mexican


Ethnic groups:

mestizo (Amerindian-Spanish) 60%, Amerindian or predominantly
Amerindian 30%, white 9%, other 1%


Religions:

Roman Catholic 76.5%, Protestant 6.3% (Pentecostal 1.4%, Jehovah's
Witnesses 1.1%, other 3.8%), other 0.3%, unspecified 13.8%, none
3.1% (2000 census)


Languages:

Spanish only 92.7%, Spanish and indigenous languages 5.7%,
indigenous only 0.8%, unspecified 0.8%; note - indigenous languages
include various Mayan, Nahuatl, and other regional languages (2005)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 91%
male: 92.4%
female: 89.6% (2004 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 13 years
male: 14 years
female: 13 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

5.5% of GDP (2005)


Government
Mexico



Country name:

conventional long form: United Mexican States
conventional short form: Mexico
local long form: Estados Unidos Mexicanos
local short form: Mexico


Government type:

federal republic


Capital:

name: Mexico (Distrito Federal)
geographic coordinates: 19 26 N, 99 08 W
time difference: UTC-6 (1 hour behind Washington, DC during Standard
Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins first Sunday in April; ends last
Sunday in October
note: Mexico is divided into three time zones


Administrative divisions:

31 states (estados, singular - estado) and 1 federal district*
(distrito federal); Aguascalientes, Baja California, Baja California
Sur, Campeche, Chiapas, Chihuahua, Coahuila de Zaragoza, Colima,
Distrito Federal*, Durango, Guanajuato, Guerrero, Hidalgo, Jalisco,
Mexico, Michoacan de Ocampo, Morelos, Nayarit, Nuevo Leon, Oaxaca,
Puebla, Queretaro de Arteaga, Quintana Roo, San Luis Potosi,
Sinaloa, Sonora, Tabasco, Tamaulipas, Tlaxcala, Veracruz-Llave,
Yucatan, Zacatecas


Independence:

16 September 1810 (declared); 27 September 1821 (recognized by Spain)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 16 September (1810)


Constitution:

5 February 1917


Legal system:

mixture of US constitutional theory and civil law system; judicial
review of legislative acts; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with
reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal and compulsory (but not enforced)


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Felipe de Jesus CALDERON Hinojosa (since 1
December 2006); note - the president is both the chief of state and
head of government
head of government: President Felipe de Jesus CALDERON Hinojosa
(since 1 December 2006)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president; note - appointment of
attorney general requires consent of the Senate
elections: president elected by popular vote for a single six-year
term; election last held on 2 July 2006 (next to be held 1 July 2012)
election results: Felipe CALDERON elected president; percent of vote
- Felipe CALDERON 35.89%, Andres Manuel LOPEZ OBRADOR 35.31%,
Roberto MADRAZO 22.26%, other 6.54%


Legislative branch:

bicameral National Congress or Congreso de la Union consists of the
Senate or Camara de Senadores (128 seats; 96 members are elected by
popular vote to serve six-year terms, and 32 seats are allocated on
the basis of each party's popular vote) and the Federal Chamber of
Deputies or Camara Federal de Diputados (500 seats; 300 members are
elected by popular vote; remaining 200 members are allocated on the
basis of each party's popular vote; to serve three-year terms)
elections: Senate - last held 2 July 2006 for all of the seats (next
to be held 1 July 2012); Chamber of Deputies - last held 2 July 2006
(next to be held 5 July 2009)
election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - PAN 52, PRI 33, PRD 26, PVEM 6, CD 5, PT 5, independent 1;
Chamber of Deputies - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party
- PAN 207, PRD 127, PRI 106, PVEM 17, CD 17, PT 11, other 15


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court of Justice or Suprema Corte de Justicia de la Nacion
(justices or ministros are appointed by the president with consent
of the Senate)


Political parties and leaders:

Convergence for Democracy or CD [Luis MALDONADO Venegas];
Institutional Revolutionary Party or PRI [Beatriz PAREDES]; Labor
Party or PT [Alberto ANAYA Gutierrez]; Mexican Green Ecological
Party or PVEM [Jorge Emilio GONZALEZ Martinez]; National Action
Party (Partido Accion Nacional) or PAN [German MARTINEZ Cazares];
New Alliance Party (Partido Nueva Alianza) or PNA [Jorge Antonio
KAHWAGI Macari]; Party of the Democratic Revolution (Partido de la
Revolucion Democratica) or PRD [Leonel COTA Montano]; Social
Democratic and Peasant Alternative Party (Partido Alternativa
Socialdemocrata y Campesina) or Alternativa [Alberto BEGNE Guerra]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Broad Progressive Front or FAP; Businessmen's Coordinating Council
or CCE; Confederation of Employers of the Mexican Republic or
COPARMEX; Confederation of Industrial Chambers or CONCAMIN;
Confederation of Mexican Workers or CTM; Confederation of National
Chambers of Commerce or CONCANACO; Coordinator for Foreign Trade
Business Organizations or COECE; Federation of Unions Providing
Goods and Services or FESEBES; National Chamber of Transformation
Industries or CANACINTRA; National Peasant Confederation or CNC;
National Small Business Chamber or CANACOPE; National Syndicate of
Education Workers or SNTE; National Union of Workers or UNT; Popular
Assembly of the People of Oaxaca or APPO; Roman Catholic Church


International organization participation:

APEC, BCIE, BIS, CAN (observer), Caricom (observer), CDB, CE
(observer), CSN (observer), EBRD, FAO, G-3, G-15, G-24, IADB, IAEA,
IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF,
IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES,
LAIA, MIGA, NAFTA, NAM (observer), NEA, OAS, OECD, OPANAL, OPCW,
PCA, RG, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNWTO, UPU,
WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Arturo SARUKHAN Casamitjana
chancery: 1911 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20006
telephone: [1] (202) 728-1600
FAX: [1] (202) 728-1698
consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Austin, Boston, Chicago, Dallas,
Denver, El Paso, Houston, Laredo (Texas), Los Angeles, Miami, New
Orleans, New York, Nogales (Arizona), Omaha, Orlando, Phoenix,
Sacramento, San Antonio, San Diego, San Francisco, San Jose, San
Juan (Puerto Rico)
consulate(s): Albuquerque, Brownsville (Texas), Calexico
(California), Del Rio (Texas), Detroit, Douglas (Arizona), Eagle
Pass (Texas), Fresno (California), Indianapolis (Indiana), Kansas
City (Missouri), Laredo (Texas), Las Vegas, Little Rock (Arkansas),
McAllen (Texas), New Orleans, Omaha, Orlando, Oxnard (California),
Philadelphia, Portland (Oregon), Presidio (Texas), Raleigh, Saint
Paul (Minnesota), Salt Lake City, San Bernardino, Santa Ana
(California), Seattle, Tucson, Yuma (Arizona)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Antonio O. GARZA, Jr.
embassy: Paseo de la Reforma 305, Colonia Cuauhtemoc, 06500 Mexico,
Distrito Federal
mailing address: P. O. Box 9000, Brownsville, TX 78520-9000
telephone: [52] (55) 5080-2000
FAX: [52] (55) 5511-9980
consulate(s) general: Ciudad Juarez, Guadalajara, Monterrey, Tijuana
consulate(s): Hermosillo, Matamoros, Merida, Nogales, Nuevo Laredo


Flag description:

three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), white, and red;
the coat of arms (an eagle with a snake in its beak perched on a
cactus) is centered in the white band


Economy
Mexico



Economy - overview:

Mexico has a free market economy in the trillion dollar class. It
contains a mixture of modern and outmoded industry and agriculture,
increasingly dominated by the private sector. Recent administrations
have expanded competition in seaports, railroads,
telecommunications, electricity generation, natural gas
distribution, and airports. Per capita income is one-fourth that of
the US; income distribution remains highly unequal. Trade with the
US and Canada has tripled since the implementation of NAFTA in 1994.
Mexico has 12 free trade agreements with over 40 countries
including, Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, the European Free Trade
Area, and Japan, putting more than 90% of trade under free trade
agreements. In 2007, during his first year in office, the Felipe
CALDERON administration was able to garner support from the
opposition to successfully pass a pension and a fiscal reform. The
administration continues to face many economic challenges including
the need to upgrade infrastructure, modernize labor laws, and allow
private investment in the energy sector. CALDERON has stated that
his top economic priorities remain reducing poverty and creating
jobs.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$1.353 trillion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$893.4 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

3.2% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$12,400 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 4%
industry: 26.6%
services: 69.5% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

44.71 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 18%
industry: 24%
services: 58% (2003)


Unemployment rate:

3.7% plus underemployment of perhaps 25% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

13.8% using food-based definition of poverty; asset based poverty
amounted to more than 40% (2006)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 1.2%
highest 10%: 37% (2006)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

50.9 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

20.8% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $227.5 billion
expenditures: $227.2 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

22.8% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

4% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

NA


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

7.56% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$103.5 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$168.4 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$349.1 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

corn, wheat, soybeans, rice, beans, cotton, coffee, fruit, tomatoes;
beef, poultry, dairy products; wood products


Industries:

food and beverages, tobacco, chemicals, iron and steel, petroleum,
mining, textiles, clothing, motor vehicles, consumer durables,
tourism


Industrial production growth rate:

1.4% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

243.3 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

202 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - exports:

1.278 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

484.2 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 78.7%
hydro: 14.2%
nuclear: 4.2%
other: 2.9% (2001)


Oil - production:

3.501 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

2.119 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

2.204 million bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

385,400 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

11.65 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

55.98 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

68.29 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

2.973 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

11.69 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

392.2 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$5.525 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$271.9 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

manufactured goods, oil and oil products, silver, fruits,
vegetables, coffee, cotton


Exports - partners:

US 82.2%, Canada 2.4%, Germany 1.5% (2007)


Imports:

$281.9 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

metalworking machines, steel mill products, agricultural machinery,
electrical equipment, car parts for assembly, repair parts for motor
vehicles, aircraft, and aircraft parts


Imports - partners:

US 49.6%, China 10.5%, Japan 5.8%, South Korea 4.5% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$189.4 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$87.19 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$179.8 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$260.9 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$39.01 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$348.3 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

Mexican peso (MXN)


Currency code:

MXN


Exchange rates:

Mexican pesos (MXN) per US dollar - 10.8 (2007), 10.899 (2006),
10.898 (2005), 11.286 (2004), 10.789 (2003)


Communications
Mexico



Telephones - main lines in use:

19.754 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

68.254 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: adequate telephone service for business and
government, but the population is poorly served; mobile subscribers
far outnumber fixed-line subscribers; domestic satellite system with
120 earth stations; extensive microwave radio relay network;
considerable use of fiber-optic cable and coaxial cable
domestic: low telephone density with about 18 fixed lines per 100
persons; privatized in December 1990; despite the opening to
competition in January 1997, Telmex remains dominant; legal
challenges to Telmex's alleged anti-competitive behavior in the
mobile and fixed-line markets culminated in a World Trade
Organization ruling in 2004 against Mexico prompting some
strengthening of the powers granted Mexico's telecom regulator;
mobile cellular teledensity approaching 65 per 100 persons
international: country code - 52; Columbus-2 fiber-optic submarine
cable with access to the US, Virgin Islands, Canary Islands, Spain,
and Italy; the Americas Region Caribbean Ring System (ARCOS-1) and
the MAYA-1 submarine cable system together provide access to Central
America, parts of South America and the Caribbean, and the US;
satellite earth stations - 120 (32 Intelsat, 2 Solidaridad (giving
Mexico improved access to South America, Central America, and much
of the US as well as enhancing domestic communications), 1 Panamsat,
numerous Inmarsat mobile earth stations); linked to Central American
Microwave System of trunk connections (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 850, FM 545, shortwave 15 (2003)


Radios:

31 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

236 (plus repeaters) (1997)


Televisions:

25.6 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.mx


Internet hosts:

10.653 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

51 (2000)


Internet users:

22.812 million (2007)


Transportation
Mexico



Airports:

1,834 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 231
over 3,047 m: 12
2,438 to 3,047 m: 29
1,524 to 2,437 m: 84
914 to 1,523 m: 77
under 914 m: 29 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 1,603
over 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 63
914 to 1,523 m: 408
under 914 m: 1,131 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 22,705 km; liquid petroleum gas 1,875 km; oil 8,688 km;
oil/gas/water 228 km; refined products 6,520 km (2006)


Railways:

total: 17,665 km
standard gauge: 17,665 km 1.435-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 356,945 km
paved: 178,473 km (includes 6,279 km of expressways)
unpaved: 178,472 km (2006)


Waterways:

2,900 km (navigable rivers and coastal canals) (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 55
by type: bulk carrier 2, cargo 7, chemical tanker 5, liquefied gas
4, passenger/cargo 11, petroleum tanker 23, roll on/roll off 3
foreign-owned: 4 (Denmark 2, Hong Kong 1, UAE 1)
registered in other countries: 20 (Brazil 1, Honduras 1, Liberia 2,
Marshall Islands 4, Panama 2, Portugal 1, Spain 3, Venezuela 5,
unknown 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Altamira, Coatzacoalcos, Manzanillo, Morro Redondo, Salina Cruz,
Tampico, Veracruz


Military
Mexico



Military branches:

Secretariat of National Defense (Secretaria de Defensa Nacional,
Sedena): Army (Ejercito, includes Mexican Air Force (Fuerza Aerea
Mexicana, FAM)); Secretariat of the Navy (Secretaria de Marina,
Semar): Mexican Navy (Armada de Mexico, ARM, includes Naval Air
Force (FAN) and naval infantry) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for compulsory military service, conscript service
obligation - 12 months; 16 years of age with consent for voluntary
enlistment; conscripts serve only in the Army; Navy and Air Force
service is all voluntary; women are eligible for voluntary military
service (2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 27,774,688
females age 16-49: 29,376,791 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 22,188,284
females age 16-49: 24,884,614 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 1,110,544
female: 1,073,223 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0.5% of GDP (2006 est.)


Transnational Issues
Mexico



Disputes - international:

abundant rainfall in recent years along much of the Mexico-US border
region has ameliorated periodically strained water-sharing
arrangements; the US has intensified security measures to monitor
and control legal and illegal personnel, transport, and commodities
across its border with Mexico; Mexico must deal with thousands of
impoverished Guatemalans and other Central Americans who cross the
porous border looking for work in Mexico and the United States


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

IDPs: 5,500-10,000 (government's quashing of Zapatista uprising in
1994 in eastern Chiapas Region) (2007)


Illicit drugs:

major drug-producing nation; cultivation of opium poppy in 2007 rose
to 6,900 hectares yielding a potential production of 18 metric tons
of pure heroin, or 50 metric tons of "black tar" heroin, the
dominant form of Mexican heroin in the western United States;
marijuana cultivation increased to 8,900 hectares in 2007 and
yielded a potential production of 15,800 metric tons; government
conducts the largest independent illicit-crop eradication program in
the world; continues as the primary transshipment country for
US-bound cocaine from South America, with an estimated 90% of annual
cocaine movements toward the US stopping in Mexico; major drug
syndicates control the majority of drug trafficking throughout the
country; producer and distributor of ecstasy; significant
money-laundering center; major supplier of heroin and largest
foreign supplier of marijuana and methamphetamine to the US market
(2007)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Micronesia, Federated States of

Introduction
Micronesia, Federated States of



Background:

In 1979 the Federated States of Micronesia, a UN Trust Territory
under US administration, adopted a constitution. In 1986
independence was attained under a Compact of Free Association with
the US, which was amended and renewed in 2004. Present concerns
include large-scale unemployment, overfishing, and overdependence on
US aid.


Geography
Micronesia, Federated States of



Location:

Oceania, island group in the North Pacific Ocean, about
three-quarters of the way from Hawaii to Indonesia


Geographic coordinates:

6 55 N, 158 15 E


Map references:

Oceania


Area:

total: 702 sq km
land: 702 sq km
water: 0 sq km (fresh water only)
note: includes Pohnpei (Ponape), Chuuk (Truk) Islands, Yap Islands,
and Kosrae (Kosaie)


Area - comparative:

four times the size of Washington, DC (land area only)


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

6,112 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; heavy year-round rainfall, especially in the eastern
islands; located on southern edge of the typhoon belt with
occasionally severe damage


Terrain:

islands vary geologically from high mountainous islands to low,
coral atolls; volcanic outcroppings on Pohnpei, Kosrae, and Chuuk


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: Dolohmwar (Totolom) 791 m


Natural resources:

forests, marine products, deep-seabed minerals, phosphate


Land use:

arable land: 5.71%
permanent crops: 45.71%
other: 48.58% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

typhoons (June to December)


Environment - current issues:

overfishing, climate change, pollution


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone
Layer Protection
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

four major island groups totaling 607 islands


People
Micronesia, Federated States of



Population:

107,665 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 35.3% (male 19,344/female 18,687)
15-64 years: 61.8% (male 33,142/female 33,389)
65 years and over: 2.9% (male 1,320/female 1,783) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 21.6 years
male: 21.1 years
female: 22.1 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

-0.191% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

23.66 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

4.53 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-21.04 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

NA


Infant mortality rate:

total: 27.03 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 29.8 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 24.13 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 70.65 years
male: 68.79 years
female: 72.61 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.98 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Micronesian(s)
adjective: Micronesian; Chuukese, Kosraen(s), Pohnpeian(s), Yapese


Ethnic groups:

Chuukese 48.8%, Pohnpeian 24.2%, Kosraean 6.2%, Yapese 5.2%, Yap
outer islands 4.5%, Asian 1.8%, Polynesian 1.5%, other 6.4%, unknown
1.4% (2000 census)


Religions:

Roman Catholic 50%, Protestant 47%, other 3%


Languages:

English (official and common language), Chuukese, Kosrean,
Pohnpeian, Yapese, Ulithian, Woleaian, Nukuoro, Kapingamarangi


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 89%
male: 91%
female: 88% (1980 est.)


Education expenditures:

7.3% of GDP (2000)


Government
Micronesia, Federated States of



Country name:

conventional long form: Federated States of Micronesia
conventional short form: none
local long form: Federated States of Micronesia
local short form: none
former: Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, Ponape, Truk, and
Yap Districts
abbreviation: FSM


Government type:

constitutional government in free association with the US; the
Compact of Free Association entered into force 3 November 1986 and
the Amended Compact entered into force May 2004


Capital:

name: Palikir
geographic coordinates: 6 55 N, 158 09 E
time difference: UTC+11 (16 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

4 states; Chuuk (Truk), Kosrae (Kosaie), Pohnpei (Ponape), Yap


Independence:

3 November 1986 (from the US-administered UN trusteeship)


National holiday:

Constitution Day, 10 May (1979)


Constitution:

10 May 1979


Legal system:

based on adapted Trust Territory laws, acts of the legislature,
municipal, common, and customary laws; has not accepted compulsory
ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Emanuel MORI (since 11 May 2007); Vice
President Alik L. ALIK (since 11 May 2007); note - the president is
both the chief of state and head of government
head of government: President Emanuel MORI (since 11 May 2007); Vice
President Alik L. ALIK (since 11 May 2007)
cabinet: Cabinet includes the vice president and the heads of the
eight executive departments
elections: president and vice president elected by Congress from
among the four senators at large for a four-year term (eligible for
a second term); election last held 11 May 2007 (next to be held May
2011); note - a proposed constitutional amendment to establish
popular elections for president and vice president failed
election results: Emanuel MORI elected president; percent of
Congress vote - NA; Alik L. ALIK elected vice president; percent of
Congress vote - NA


Legislative branch:

unicameral Congress (14 seats; 4 - one elected from each state to
serve four-year terms and 10 - elected from single-member districts
delineated by population to serve two-year terms; members elected by
popular vote)
elections: last held 6 March 2007 (next to be held in March 2009)
election results: percent of vote - NA%; seats - independents 14


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court


Political parties and leaders:

no formal parties


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

ACP, ADB, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFC, IFRCS, IMF, IOC,
ITSO, ITU, MIGA, OPCW, PIF, Sparteca, SPC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, WHO,
WMO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Yosiwo GEORGE
chancery: 1725 N Street NW, Washington, DC 20036
telephone: [1] (202) 223-4383
FAX: [1] (202) 223-4391
consulate(s) general: Honolulu, Tamuning (Guam)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Miriam K. HUGHES
embassy: 101 Upper Pics Road, Kolonia
mailing address: P. O. Box 1286, Kolonia, Pohnpei, 96941
telephone: [691] 320-2187
FAX: [691] 320-2186


Flag description:

light blue with four white five-pointed stars centered; the stars
are arranged in a diamond pattern


Economy
Micronesia, Federated States of



Economy - overview:

Economic activity consists primarily of subsistence farming and
fishing. The islands have few mineral deposits worth exploiting,
except for high-grade phosphate. The potential for a tourist
industry exists, but the remote location, a lack of adequate
facilities, and limited air connections hinder development. Under
the original terms of the Compact of Free Association, the US
provided $1.3 billion in grant aid during the period 1986-2001; the
level of aid has been subsequently reduced. The Amended Compact of
Free Association with the US guarantees the Federated States of
Micronesia (FSM) millions of dollars in annual aid through 2023, and
establishes a Trust Fund into which the US and the FSM make annual
contributions in order to provide annual payouts to the FSM in
perpetuity after 2023. The country's medium-term economic outlook
appears fragile due not only to the reduction in US assistance but
also to the current slow growth of the private sector.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$277 million; note - supplemented by grant aid, averaging perhaps
$100 million annually (2002 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$232 million (2005)


GDP - real growth rate:

0.3% (2005 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$2,300 (2005 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 28.9%
industry: 15.2%
services: 55.9% (2004 est.)


Labor force:

37,410 (2000)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 0.9%
industry: 34.4%
services: 64.7%
note: two-thirds are government employees (FY05 est.)


Unemployment rate:

22% (2000 est.)


Population below poverty line:

26.7% (2000)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $127.3 million ($69 million less grants)
expenditures: $144.2 million (FY05 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 October - 30 September


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.2% (2005)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

14.03% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$22.45 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$72.49 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

NA (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

black pepper, tropical fruits and vegetables, coconuts, bananas,
cassava (tapioca), sakau (kava), betel nuts, sweet potatoes; pigs,
chickens; fish


Industries:

tourism, construction; fish processing, specialized aquaculture;
craft items (from shell, wood, and pearls)


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

192 million kWh (2002)


Electricity - consumption:

178.6 million kWh (2002)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2002)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2002)


Electricity - production by source:

NA


Current account balance:

-$34.3 million (FY05 est.)


Exports:

$14 million (f.o.b.) (2004 est.)


Exports - commodities:

fish, garments, bananas, black pepper, sakau (kava), betel nut


Exports - partners:

Japan, US, Guam (2006)


Imports:

$132.7 million f.o.b. (2004)


Imports - commodities:

food, manufactured goods, machinery and equipment, beverages


Imports - partners:

US, Japan, Hong Kong (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$106.4 million (2005)


Debt - external:

$60.8 million (FY05 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

US dollar (USD)


Currency code:

USD


Exchange rates:

the US dollar is used


Communications
Micronesia, Federated States of



Telephones - main lines in use:

8,700 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

27,400 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: adequate system
domestic: islands interconnected by shortwave radiotelephone (used
mostly for government purposes), satellite (Intelsat) ground
stations, and some coaxial and fiber-optic cable; cellular service
available on Kosrae, Pohnpei, and Yap
international: country code - 691; satellite earth stations - 5
Intelsat (Pacific Ocean) (2002)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 5, FM 1, shortwave 0 (2004)


Radios:

9,400 (1996)


Television broadcast stations:

3 (cable TV also available) (2004)


Televisions:

2,800 (1999)


Internet country code:

.fm


Internet hosts:

866 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

15,000 (2007)


Transportation
Micronesia, Federated States of



Airports:

6 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 6
1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
914 to 1,523 m: 2 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 240 km
paved: 42 km
unpaved: 198 km (2000)


Merchant marine:

total: 3
by type: cargo 1, passenger/cargo 2 (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Tomil Harbor


Military
Micronesia, Federated States of



Military branches:

no regular military forces


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 26,686 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 21,748 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 1,310
female: 1,262 (2008 est.)


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of the US


Transnational Issues
Micronesia, Federated States of



Disputes - international:

none


Illicit drugs:

major consumer of cannabis



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Moldova

Introduction
Moldova



Background:

Formerly part of Romania, Moldova was incorporated into the Soviet
Union at the close of World War II. Although independent from the
USSR since 1991, Russian forces have remained on Moldovan territory
east of the Dniester River supporting the Slavic majority
population, mostly Ukrainians and Russians, who have proclaimed a
"Transnistria" republic. One of the poorest nations in Europe,
Moldova became the first former Soviet state to elect a Communist as
its president in 2001.


Geography
Moldova



Location:

Eastern Europe, northeast of Romania


Geographic coordinates:

47 00 N, 29 00 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 33,843 sq km
land: 33,371 sq km
water: 472 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than Maryland


Land boundaries:

total: 1,390 km
border countries: Romania 450 km, Ukraine 940 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

moderate winters, warm summers


Terrain:

rolling steppe, gradual slope south to Black Sea


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Dniester River 2 m
highest point: Dealul Balanesti 430 m


Natural resources:

lignite, phosphorites, gypsum, arable land, limestone


Land use:

arable land: 54.52%
permanent crops: 8.81%
other: 36.67% (2005)


Irrigated land:

3,000 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

11.7 cu km (1997)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 2.31 cu km/yr (10%/58%/33%)
per capita: 549 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

landslides


Environment - current issues:

heavy use of agricultural chemicals, including banned pesticides
such as DDT, has contaminated soil and groundwater; extensive soil
erosion from poor farming methods


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

landlocked; well endowed with various sedimentary rocks and minerals
including sand, gravel, gypsum, and limestone


People
Moldova



Population:

4,324,450 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 16.3% (male 361,000/female 341,785)
15-64 years: 72.9% (male 1,528,080/female 1,622,620)
65 years and over: 10.9% (male 174,448/female 296,517) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 34.3 years
male: 32.4 years
female: 36.4 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

-0.092% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

11.01 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

10.8 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-1.13 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.94 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.59 male(s)/female
total population: 0.91 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 13.5 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 14.95 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 11.96 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 70.5 years
male: 66.81 years
female: 74.41 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.26 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.2% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

5,500 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 300 (2001 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Moldovan(s)
adjective: Moldovan


Ethnic groups:

Moldovan/Romanian 78.2%, Ukrainian 8.4%, Russian 5.8%, Gagauz 4.4%,
Bulgarian 1.9%, other 1.3% (2004 census)
note: internal disputes with ethnic Slavs in the Transnistrian region


Religions:

Eastern Orthodox 98%, Jewish 1.5%, Baptist and other 0.5% (2000)


Languages:

Moldovan (official, virtually the same as the Romanian language),
Russian, Gagauz (a Turkish dialect)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99.1%
male: 99.7%
female: 98.6% (2005 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 12 years
male: 12 years
female: 13 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

7.6% of GDP (2006)


Government
Moldova



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Moldova
conventional short form: Moldova
local long form: Republica Moldova
local short form: Moldova
former: Moldavian Soviet Socialist Republic, Moldovan Soviet
Socialist Republic


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Chisinau (Kishinev)
note: pronounced kee-shee-now
geographic coordinates: 47 00 N, 28 51 E
time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

32 raions (raioane, singular - raionul), 3 municipalities
(municipiul), 1 autonomous territorial unit (unitatea teritoriala
autonoma), and 1 territorial unit (unitatea teritoriala)
raions: Anenii Noi, Basarabeasca, Briceni, Cahul, Cantemir,
Calarasi, Causeni, Cimislia, Criuleni, Donduseni, Drochia, Dubasari,
Edinet, Falesti, Floresti, Glodeni, Hincesti, Ialoveni, Leova,
Nisporeni, Ocnita, Orhei, Rezina, Riscani, Singerei, Soldanesti,
Soroca, Stefan-Voda, Straseni, Taraclia, Telenesti, Ungheni
municipalities: Balti, Bender, Chisinau
autonomous territorial unit: Gagauzia
territorial unit: Stinga Nistrului (Transnistria)


Independence:

27 August 1991 (from Soviet Union)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 27 August (1991)


Constitution:

new constitution adopted 29 July 1994, effective 27 August 1994;
replaced old Soviet constitution of 1979


Legal system:

based on civil law system; Constitutional Court reviews legality of
legislative acts and governmental decisions of resolution; accepts
many UN and Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
(OSCE) documents; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Vladimir VORONIN (since 4 April 2001)
head of government: Prime Minister Zinaida GRECEANII (since 31 March
2008); First Deputy Prime Minister Igor DODON (since 31 March 2008)
cabinet: Cabinet selected by president, subject to approval of
Parliament
elections: president elected by Parliament for a four-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 4 April 2005 (next
to be held in 2009); note - prime minister designated by the
president upon consultation with Parliament; within 15 days from
designation, the prime minister-designate must request a vote of
confidence from the Parliament regarding his/her work program and
entire cabinet; prime minister designated 21 March 2008; cabinet
received a vote of confidence 31 March 2008
election results: Vladimir VORONIN reelected president;
parliamentary votes - Vladimir VORONIN 75, Gheorghe DUCA 1; Zinaida
GRECEANII designated prime minister; parliamentary votes of
confidence - 56 of 101


Legislative branch:

unicameral Parliament or Parlamentul (101 seats; parties and
electoral blocs elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 6 March 2005 (next to be held in 2009)
election results: percent of vote by party - PCRM 46.1%, Democratic
Moldova Bloc (AMN, PD, PSL) 28.4%, PPCD 9.1%, other parties 16.4%;
seats by party - PCRM 56, Democratic Moldova Bloc (AMN, PD, PSL) 34,
PPCD 11


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court; Constitutional Court (the sole authority for
constitutional judicature)


Political parties and leaders:

Christian Democratic People's Party or PPCD [Iurie ROSCA]; Communist
Party of the Republic of Moldova or PCRM [Vladimir VORONIN];
Democratic Party or PD [Dumitru DIACOV]; Liberal Democratic Party or
PLDM [Vladmir FILAT]; National Liberal Party or PNL [Vitalia
PAVLICENKO]; Our Moldova Alliance or AMN [Serafim URECHEAN]; Party
for Social Democracy or PDSM [Dumitru BRAGHIS]; Social Liberal Party
or PSL [Oleg SEREBRIAN]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

BSEC, CE, CEI, CIS, EAEC (observer), EAPC, EBRD, FAO, GCTU, GUAM,
IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt (signatory), IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF,
IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITU, MIGA, OIF,
OPCW, OSCE, PFP, SECI, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union Latina,
UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOCI, UNOMIG, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Nicolae CHIRTOACA
chancery: 2101 S Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 667-1130
FAX: [1] (202) 667-1204


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Asif CHAUDHRY
embassy: 103 Mateevici Street, Chisinau MD-2009
mailing address: use embassy street address
telephone: [373] (22) 40-8300
FAX: [373] (22) 23-3044


Flag description:

three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side), yellow, and red;
emblem in center of flag is of a Roman eagle of gold outlined in
black with a red beak and talons carrying a yellow cross in its beak
and a green olive branch in its right talons and a yellow scepter in
its left talons; on its breast is a shield divided horizontally red
over blue with a stylized ox head, star, rose, and crescent all in
black-outlined yellow; same color scheme as Romania


Economy
Moldova



Economy - overview:

Moldova remains one of the poorest countries in Europe despite
recent progress from its small economic base. It enjoys a favorable
climate and good farmland but has no major mineral deposits. As a
result, the economy depends heavily on agriculture, featuring
fruits, vegetables, wine, and tobacco. Moldova must import almost
all of its energy supplies. Moldova's dependence on Russian energy
was underscored at the end of 2005, when a Russian-owned electrical
station in Moldova's separatist Transnistria region cut off power to
Moldova and Russia's Gazprom cut off natural gas in disputes over
pricing. Russia's decision to ban Moldovan wine and agricultural
products, coupled with its decision to double the price Moldova paid
for Russian natural gas, slowed GDP growth in 2006. However, in 2007
growth returned to the 6% level Moldova had achieved in 2000-05,
boosted by Russia's partial removal of the bans, solid fixed capital
investment, and strong domestic demand driven by remittances from
abroad. Economic reforms have been slow because of corruption and
strong political forces backing government controls. Nevertheless,
the government's primary goal of EU integration has resulted in some
market-oriented progress. The granting of EU trade preferences and
increased exports to Russia will encourage higher growth rates in
2008, but the agreements are unlikely to serve as a panacea, given
the extent to which export success depends on higher quality
standards and other factors. The economy remains vulnerable to
higher fuel prices, poor agricultural weather, and the skepticism of
foreign investors. Also, the presence of an illegal separatist
regime in Moldova's Transnistria region continues to be a drag on
the Moldovan economy.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$9.756 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$4.227 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

3% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$2,300 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 17.8%
industry: 21.7%
services: 60.5% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

1.333 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 40.7%
industry: 12.1%
services: 47.2% (2005)


Unemployment rate:

2.1%; note - roughly 25% of working age Moldovans are employed
abroad (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

29.5% (2005)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 3.2%
highest 10%: 26.4% (2003)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

33.2 (2003)


Investment (gross fixed):

33.3% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $1.83 billion
expenditures: $1.841 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

23.3% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

12.3% (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

18.83% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$965 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$1.449 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$1.896 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

vegetables, fruits, wine, grain, sugar beets, sunflower seed,
tobacco; beef, milk


Industries:

sugar, vegetable oil, food processing, agricultural machinery;
foundry equipment, refrigerators and freezers, washing machines;
hosiery, shoes, textiles


Industrial production growth rate:

1% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

3.824 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

5.806 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

229 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - imports:

3.741 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 90.6%
hydro: 9.4%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

15,770 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

50.03 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

14,450 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

50 million cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

2.44 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

2.44 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$694.7 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$1.361 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

foodstuffs, textiles, machinery


Exports - partners:

Russia 25.3%, Romania 13%, Italy 10%, Ukraine 8.7%, Germany 8.5%,
Poland 6.2%, Belarus 4.2% (2007)


Imports:

$3.677 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

mineral products and fuel, machinery and equipment, chemicals,
textiles


Imports - partners:

Russia 20.5%, Ukraine 15.8%, Romania 15%, Germany 8.7%, Italy 5.7%,
Poland 4.1% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$191.8 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$1.334 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$3.3 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$NA


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$573.9 million (2004)


Currency (code):

Moldovan leu (MDL)


Currency code:

MDL


Exchange rates:

Moldovan lei (MDL) per US dollar - 12.177 (2007), 13.131 (2006),
12.6 (2005), 12.33 (2004), 13.945 (2003)


Communications
Moldova



Telephones - main lines in use:

1.08 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

1.883 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: inadequate, outmoded, poor service outside
Chisinau; some modernization is under way
domestic: depending on location, new subscribers may face long wait
for service; multiple private operators of GSM mobile-cellular
telephone service are operating; GPRS system is being introduced; a
CDMA mobile telephone network began operations in 2007; combined
fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity approaching 70 per 100
persons
international: country code - 373; service through Romania and
Russia via landline; satellite earth stations - at least 3
(Intelsat, Eutelsat, and Intersputnik) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 2, FM 29, shortwave NA (2006)


Radios:

3.22 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

40 (2006)


Televisions:

1.26 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.md


Internet hosts:

223,869 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

2 (1999)


Internet users:

700,000 (2007)


Transportation
Moldova



Airports:

10 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 6
over 3,047 m: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 4
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 1,980 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 1,138 km
broad gauge: 1,124 km 1.520-m gauge
standard gauge: 14 km 1.435-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 12,666 km
paved: 12,117 km
unpaved: 549 km (2007)


Waterways:

424 km (on Dniester and Prut rivers) (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 39
by type: bulk carrier 2, cargo 32, chemical tanker 2, combination
ore/oil 2, petroleum tanker 1
foreign-owned: 17 (Egypt 1, Romania 3, Russia 3, Syria 1, Turkey 3,
Ukraine 5, Yemen 1) (2008)


Military
Moldova



Military branches:

National Army: Ground Forces, Rapid Reaction Forces, Air and Air
Defense Forces (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for compulsory military service; 12-month service
obligation (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,161,924
females age 16-49: 1,187,771 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 877,070
females age 16-49: 994,091 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 33,053
female: 31,712 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0.4% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Moldova



Disputes - international:

Moldova and Ukraine operate joint customs posts to monitor the
transit of people and commodities through Moldova's break-away
Transnistria region, which remains under OSCE supervision


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Moldova is a major source and, to a lesser
extent, a transit country for women and girls trafficked for the
purpose of commercial sexual exploitation; Moldovan women are
trafficked to the Middle East, Eastern Europe, and Western Europe;
girls and young women are trafficked within the country from rural
areas to Chisinau; children are also trafficked to neighboring
countries for forced labor and begging; labor trafficking of men to
work in the construction, agriculture, and service sectors of Russia
is increasingly a problem
tier rating: Tier 3 - Moldova does not fully comply with the minimum
standards for the elimination of trafficking and is not making
significant efforts to do so; the government failed to follow-up on
allegations of officials complicit in trafficking cited in the 2007
Report, and it did not demonstrate proactive efforts to identify
trafficking victims (2008)


Illicit drugs:

limited cultivation of opium poppy and cannabis, mostly for CIS
consumption; transshipment point for illicit drugs from Southwest
Asia via Central Asia to Russia, Western Europe, and possibly the
US; widespread crime and underground economic activity



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Monaco

Introduction
Monaco



Background:

The Genoese built a fortress on the site of present-day Monaco in
1215. The current ruling Grimaldi family secured control in the late
13th century, and a principality was established in 1338. Economic
development was spurred in the late 19th century with a railroad
linkup to France and the opening of a casino. Since then, the
principality's mild climate, splendid scenery, and gambling
facilities have made Monaco world famous as a tourist and recreation
center.


Geography
Monaco



Location:

Western Europe, bordering the Mediterranean Sea on the southern
coast of France, near the border with Italy


Geographic coordinates:

43 44 N, 7 24 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 1.95 sq km
land: 1.95 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

about three times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

total: 4.4 km
border countries: France 4.4 km


Coastline:

4.1 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 12 nm


Climate:

Mediterranean with mild, wet winters and hot, dry summers


Terrain:

hilly, rugged, rocky


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Mediterranean Sea 0 m
highest point: Mont Agel 140 m


Natural resources:

none


Land use:

arable land: 0%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 100% (urban area) (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

NA


Environment - current issues:

NA


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air
Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

second-smallest independent state in the world (after Holy See);
almost entirely urban


People
Monaco



Population:

32,796 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 14.8% (male 2,488/female 2,369)
15-64 years: 62.4% (male 10,110/female 10,353)
65 years and over: 22.8% (male 3,048/female 4,428) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 45.5 years
male: 43.5 years
female: 47.5 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.375% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

9.09 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

12.96 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

7.62 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.69 male(s)/female
total population: 0.91 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 5.18 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 6 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 4.33 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 79.96 years
male: 76.14 years
female: 83.97 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.75 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Monegasque(s) or Monacan(s)
adjective: Monegasque or Monacan


Ethnic groups:

French 47%, Monegasque 16%, Italian 16%, other 21%


Religions:

Roman Catholic 90%, other 10%


Languages:

French (official), English, Italian, Monegasque


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99%
male: 99%
female: 99% (2003 est.)


Education expenditures:

4.4% of GDP (2004)


Government
Monaco



Country name:

conventional long form: Principality of Monaco
conventional short form: Monaco
local long form: Principaute de Monaco
local short form: Monaco


Government type:

constitutional monarchy


Capital:

name: Monaco
geographic coordinates: 43 44 N, 7 25 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

none; there are no first-order administrative divisions as defined
by the US Government, but there are four quarters (quartiers,
singular - quartier); Fontvieille, La Condamine, Monaco-Ville,
Monte-Carlo


Independence:

1419 (beginning of rule by the House of Grimaldi)


National holiday:

National Day (Saint Rainier's Day), 19 November (1857)


Constitution:

17 December 1962


Legal system:

based on French law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Prince ALBERT II (since 6 April 2005)
head of government: Minister of State Jean-Paul PROUST (since 1 June
2005)
cabinet: Council of Government is under the authority of the monarch
elections: the monarchy is hereditary; minister of state appointed
by the monarch from a list of three French national candidates
presented by the French Government


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Council or Conseil National (24 seats; 16
members elected by list majority system, 8 by proportional
representation; to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held 3 February 2008 (next to be held February 2013)
election results: percent of vote by party - UPM 52.2%, REM 40.5%,
Monaco Together 7.3%; seats by party - UPM 21, REM 3


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court or Tribunal Supreme (judges appointed by the monarch
on the basis of nominations by the National Council)


Political parties and leaders:

Union for Monaco or UPM (including National Union for the Future of
Monaco or UNAM); Rally and Issues for Monaco or REM; Monaco Together


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

CE, FAO, IAEA, ICAO, ICC, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IFRCS, IHO, IMO,
IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IPU, ITSO, ITU, OIF, OPCW, OSCE, Schengen
Convention, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNWTO, UPU,
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador to the US and UN Gilles NOGHES
chancery: 2314 Wyoming Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: (202) 234-1530
FAX: (202) 552-5778


Diplomatic representation from the US:

the US does not have an embassy in Monaco; the US Ambassador to
France is accredited to Monaco; the US Consul General in Marseille
(France), under the authority of the US ambassador to France,
handles routine diplomatic and consular matters concerning Monaco


Flag description:

two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and white; similar to the
flag of Indonesia which is longer and the flag of Poland which is
white (top) and red


Economy
Monaco



Economy - overview:

Monaco, bordering France on the Mediterranean coast, is a popular
resort, attracting tourists to its casino and pleasant climate. The
principality also is a major banking center and has successfully
sought to diversify into services and small, high-value-added,
nonpolluting industries. The state has no income tax and low
business taxes and thrives as a tax haven both for individuals who
have established residence and for foreign companies that have set
up businesses and offices. The state retains monopolies in a number
of sectors, including tobacco, the telephone network, and the postal
service. Living standards are high, roughly comparable to those in
prosperous French metropolitan areas.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$976.3 million
note: Monaco does not publish national income figures; the estimates
are extremely rough (2006 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$NA


GDP - real growth rate:

0.9% (2000 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$30,000 (2006 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 0%
industry: 4.9%
services: 95.1% (2005)


Labor force:

44,000
note: includes workers from all foreign countries (2005 est.)


Unemployment rate:

0% (2005)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $863 million
expenditures: $920.6 million (2005 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

1.9% (2000)


Agriculture - products:

none


Industries:

tourism, construction, small-scale industrial and consumer products


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - consumption:

NA kWh


Electricity - imports:

NA kWh; note - electricity supplied by France


Exports:

$716.3 million
note: full customs integration with France, which collects and
rebates Monegasque trade duties; also participates in EU market
system through customs union with France (2005)


Imports:

$916.1 million
note: full customs integration with France, which collects and
rebates Monegasque trade duties; also participates in EU market
system through customs union with France (2005)


Economic aid - recipient:

$NA


Debt - external:

$18 billion (2000 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

euro (EUR)


Currency code:

EUR


Exchange rates:

euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006), 0.8041
(2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)


Communications
Monaco



Telephones - main lines in use:

34,000 (2005)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

17,200 (2005)


Telephone system:

general assessment: modern automatic telephone system
domestic: NA
international: country code - 377; no satellite earth stations;
connected by cable into the French communications system


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM NA, shortwave 8 (1998)


Radios:

34,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

5 (1998)


Televisions:

25,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.mc


Internet hosts:

21,058 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

2 (2000)


Internet users:

20,000 (2006)


Transportation
Monaco



Heliports:

1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 50 km
paved: 50 km (2007)


Merchant marine:

registered in other countries: 70 (Bahamas 15, Georgia 4, Isle of
Man 3, Liberia 8, Marshall Islands 13, Norway 5, Panama 16, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines 5, Vanuatu 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Monaco


Military
Monaco



Military branches:

no regular military forces; the Palace Guard performs ceremonial
duties


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 6,687 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 5,376 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 191
female: 182 (2008 est.)


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of France


Transnational Issues
Monaco



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Mongolia

Introduction
Mongolia



Background:

The Mongols gained fame in the 13th century when under Chinggis KHAN
they conquered a huge Eurasian empire. After his death the empire
was divided into several powerful Mongol states, but these broke
apart in the 14th century. The Mongols eventually retired to their
original steppe homelands and in the late 17th century came under
Chinese rule. Mongolia won its independence in 1921 with Soviet
backing. A Communist regime was installed in 1924. Following a
peaceful democratic revolution, the ex-Communist Mongolian People's
Revolutionary Party (MPRP) won elections in 1990 and 1992, but was
defeated by the Democratic Union Coalition (DUC) in the 1996
parliamentary election. Since then, parliamentary elections returned
the MPRP overwhelmingly to power in 2000, but 2004 elections reduced
MPRP representation and, therefore, its authority.


Geography
Mongolia



Location:

Northern Asia, between China and Russia


Geographic coordinates:

46 00 N, 105 00 E


Map references:

Asia


Area:

total: 1,564,116 sq km
land: 1,554,731 sq km
water: 9,385 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Alaska


Land boundaries:

total: 8,220 km
border countries: China 4,677 km, Russia 3,543 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

desert; continental (large daily and seasonal temperature ranges)


Terrain:

vast semidesert and desert plains, grassy steppe, mountains in west
and southwest; Gobi Desert in south-central


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Hoh Nuur 518 m
highest point: Nayramadlin Orgil (Huyten Orgil) 4,374 m


Natural resources:

oil, coal, copper, molybdenum, tungsten, phosphates, tin, nickel,
zinc, fluorspar, gold, silver, iron


Land use:

arable land: 0.76%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 99.24% (2005)


Irrigated land:

840 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

34.8 cu km (1999)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.44 cu km/yr (20%/27%/52%)
per capita: 166 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

dust storms, grassland and forest fires, drought, and "zud," which
is harsh winter conditions


Environment - current issues:

limited natural fresh water resources in some areas; the policies of
former Communist regimes promoted rapid urbanization and industrial
growth that had negative effects on the environment; the burning of
soft coal in power plants and the lack of enforcement of
environmental laws severely polluted the air in Ulaanbaatar;
deforestation, overgrazing, and the converting of virgin land to
agricultural production increased soil erosion from wind and rain;
desertification and mining activities had a deleterious effect on
the environment


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

landlocked; strategic location between China and Russia


People
Mongolia



Population:

2,996,081 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 28.4% (male 433,835/female 416,549)
15-64 years: 67.7% (male 1,013,215/female 1,015,221)
65 years and over: 3.9% (male 51,093/female 66,168) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 24.9 years
male: 24.6 years
female: 25.3 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.493% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

21.09 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

6.16 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.77 male(s)/female
total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 41.24 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 44.41 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 37.92 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 67.32 years
male: 64.92 years
female: 69.84 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.24 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

less than 0.1% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

fewer than 500 (2003 est)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 200 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Mongolian(s)
adjective: Mongolian


Ethnic groups:

Mongol (mostly Khalkha) 94.9%, Turkic (mostly Kazakh) 5%, other
(including Chinese and Russian) 0.1% (2000)


Religions:

Buddhist Lamaist 50%, Shamanist and Christian 6%, Muslim 4%, none
40% (2004)


Languages:

Khalkha Mongol 90%, Turkic, Russian (1999)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 97.8%
male: 98%
female: 97.5% (2000 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 13 years
male: 12 years
female: 14 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

5% of GDP (2004)


Government
Mongolia



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Mongolia
local long form: none
local short form: Mongol Uls
former: Outer Mongolia


Government type:

mixed parliamentary/presidential


Capital:

name: Ulaanbaatar
geographic coordinates: 47 55 N, 106 55 E
time difference: UTC+8 (13 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

21 provinces (aymguud, singular - aymag) and 1 municipality*
(singular - hot); Arhangay, Bayanhongor, Bayan-Olgiy, Bulgan,
Darhan-Uul, Dornod, Dornogovi, Dundgovi, Dzavhan, Govi-Altay,
Govisumber, Hentiy, Hovd, Hovsgol, Omnogovi, Orhon, Ovorhangay,
Selenge, Suhbaatar, Tov, Ulaanbaatar*, Uvs


Independence:

11 July 1921 (from China)


National holiday:

Independence Day/Revolution Day, 11 July (1921)


Constitution:

12 February 1992


Legal system:

blend of Soviet, German, and US systems that combine "continental"
or "civil" code and case-precedent; constitution ambiguous on
judicial review of legislative acts; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Nambaryn ENKHBAYAR (since 24 June 2005)
head of government: Prime Minister Sanjaa BAYAR (since 22 November
2007); First Deputy Prime Minister (Norov ALTANKHUYAG (since 27
September 2008); Vice Prime Minister Miegombyn ENKHBOLD (since 6
December 2007)
cabinet: Cabinet nominated by the prime minister in consultation
with the president and confirmed by the State Great Hural
(parliament)
elections: presidential candidates nominated by political parties
represented in State Great Hural and elected by popular vote for a
four-year term (eligible for a second term); election last held 22
May 2005 (next to be held in May 2009); following legislative
elections, leader of majority party or majority coalition is usually
elected prime minister by State Great Hural
election results: Nambaryn ENKHBAYAR elected president; percent of
vote - Nambaryn ENKHBAYAR 53.44%, Mendsaikhanin ENKHSAIKHAN 20.05%,
Bazarsadyn JARGALSAIKHAN 13.92%, Badarchyn ERDENEBAT 12.59%;
Miegombyn ENKHBOLD elected prime minister by the State Great Hural
56 to 10


Legislative branch:

unicameral State Great Hural 76 seats; members elected by popular
vote to serve four-year terms
elections: last held 29 June 2008 (next to be held in June 2012)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
MPRP 47, DP 26, others 3; note - results are disputed


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (serves as appeals court for people's and provincial
courts but rarely overturns verdicts of lower courts; judges are
nominated by the General Council of Courts and approved by the
president)


Political parties and leaders:

Democratic Party or DP [Norovyn ALTANHUYAG]; Mongolian People's
Revolutionary Party or MPRP [Sanji BAYAR]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

other: human rights groups; women's groups


International organization participation:

ADB, ARF, CP, EBRD, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO,
ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURSO, MONUC, NAM, OPCW, OSCE (partner), SCO
(observer), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOMIG, UNWTO,
UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Khasbazaryn BEKHBAT
chancery: 2833 M Street NW, Washington, DC 20007
telephone: [1] (202) 333-7117
FAX: [1] (202) 298-9227


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Mark C. MINTON
embassy: Big Ring Road, 11th Micro Region, Ulaanbaatar
mailing address: PSC 461, Box 300, FPO AP 96521-0002; P.O. Box 1021,
Ulaanbaatar-13
telephone: [976] (11) 329-095
FAX: [976] (11) 320-776


Flag description:

three equal, vertical bands of red (hoist side), blue, and red;
centered on the hoist-side red band in yellow is the national emblem
("soyombo" - a columnar arrangement of abstract and geometric
representation for fire, sun, moon, earth, water, and the yin-yang
symbol)


Economy
Mongolia



Economy - overview:

Economic activity in Mongolia has traditionally been based on
herding and agriculture. Mongolia has extensive mineral deposits.
Copper, coal, gold, molybdenum, fluorspar, uranium, tin, and
tungsten account for a large part of industrial production and
foreign direct investment. Soviet assistance, at its height
one-third of GDP, disappeared almost overnight in 1990 and 1991 at
the time of the dismantlement of the USSR. The following decade saw
Mongolia endure both deep recession because of political inaction
and natural disasters, as well as economic growth because of
reform-embracing, free-market economics and extensive privatization
of the formerly state-run economy. Severe winters and summer
droughts in 2000-02 resulted in massive livestock die-off and zero
or negative GDP growth. This was compounded by falling prices for
Mongolia's primary sector exports and widespread opposition to
privatization. Growth was 10.6% in 2004, 5.5% in 2005, 7.5% in 2006,
and 9.9% in 2007 largely because of high copper prices and new gold
production. Mongolia is experiencing its highest inflation rate in
over a decade as consumer prices in 2007 rose 15%, largely because
of increased fuel and food costs. Mongolia's economy continues to be
heavily influenced by its neighbors. For example, Mongolia purchases
95% of its petroleum products and a substantial amount of electric
power from Russia, leaving it vulnerable to price increases. Trade
with China represents more than half of Mongolia's total external
trade - China receives about 70% of Mongolia's exports. Remittances
from Mongolians working abroad both legally and illegally are
sizable, and money laundering is a growing concern. Mongolia settled
its $11 billion debt with Russia at the end of 2003 on favorable
terms. Mongolia, which joined the World Trade Organization in 1997,
seeks to expand its participation and integration into Asian
regional economic and trade regimes.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$8.542 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$3.905 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

9.9% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$2,900 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 18.8%
industry: 40.4%
services: 40.8% (2006)


Labor force:

1.042 million (2006)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 39.9%
industry: 11.7%
services: 49.4% (2006)


Unemployment rate:

3% (2007)


Population below poverty line:

36.1% (2004)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 3%
highest 10%: 24.6% (2002)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

32.8 (2002)


Budget:

revenues: $1.58 billion
expenditures: $1.497 billion (2007)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

9% (2007)


Central bank discount rate:

9.87% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

17.54% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$504.7 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$1.539 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$1.191 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

wheat, barley, vegetables, forage crops; sheep, goats, cattle,
camels, horses


Industries:

construction and construction materials; mining (coal, copper,
molybdenum, fluorspar, tin, tungsten, and gold); oil; food and
beverages; processing of animal products, cashmere and natural fiber
manufacturing


Industrial production growth rate:

3% (2006 est.)


Electricity - production:

3.078 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

2.638 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

10 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

195 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

12,860 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - imports:

12,630 bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$23 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$1.889 billion f.o.b. (2007)


Exports - commodities:

copper, apparel, livestock, animal products, cashmere, wool, hides,
fluorspar, other nonferrous metals


Exports - partners:

China 71.9%, Canada 10.7%, US 4.8% (2007)


Imports:

$2.117 billion c.i.f. (2007)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, fuel, cars, food products, industrial
consumer goods, chemicals, building materials, sugar, tea


Imports - partners:

China 32%, Russia 29.4%, South Korea 7.9%, Japan 7.2% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$159.5 million (2006)


Debt - external:

$1.438 billion (2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$NA


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$613.3 million (2007)


Currency (code):

togrog/tugrik (MNT)


Currency code:

MNT


Exchange rates:

togrog/tugriks (MNT) per US dollar - 1,170 (2007), 1,179.6 (2006),
1,205 (2005), 1,185.3 (2004), 1,146.5 (2003)


Communications
Mongolia



Telephones - main lines in use:

158,900 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

775,300 (2006)


Telephone system:

general assessment: network is improving with international direct
dialing available in many areas
domestic: very low fixed-line density; there are multiple mobile
cellular service providers and subscribership is increasing rapidly;
a fiber-optic network is also being installed that will improve
broadband and communication services between major urban centers
international: country code - 976; satellite earth stations - 7


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 7, FM 115 (includes 20 National radio broadcaster repeaters),
shortwave 4 (2006)


Radios:

155,900 (1999)


Television broadcast stations:

456 (including provincial and low-power repeaters) (2006)


Televisions:

168,800 (1999)


Internet country code:

.mn


Internet hosts:

356 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

5 (2001)


Internet users:

320,000 (2007)


Transportation
Mongolia



Airports:

44 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 13
over 3,047 m: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 10
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 31
over 3,047 m: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 5
1,524 to 2,437 m: 23
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Railways:

total: 1,810 km
broad gauge: 1,810 km 1.524-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 49,250 km
paved: 1,724 km
unpaved: 47,526 km (2002)


Waterways:

580 km
note: only waterway in operation is Lake Hovsgol (135 km); Selenge
River (270 km) and Orhon River (175 km) are navigable but carry
little traffic; lakes and rivers freeze in winter, are open from May
to September (2004)


Merchant marine:

total: 77
by type: bulk carrier 20, cargo 44, chemical tanker 2, liquefied gas
1, passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 2, roll on/roll off 6,
vehicle carrier 1
foreign-owned: 53 (China 1, Germany 4, Indonesia 1, North Korea 1,
South Korea 1, Lebanon 2, Russia 9, Singapore 9, Thailand 1, Ukraine
1, Vietnam 23) (2008)


Military
Mongolia



Military branches:

Mongolian Armed Forces: Mongolian Army, Mongolian Air Force; there
is no navy (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18-25 years of age for compulsory military service; conscript
service obligation - 12 months in land or air defense forces or
police; a small portion of Mongolian land forces (2.5 percent) is
comprised of contract soldiers; women cannot be deployed overseas
for military operations (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 865,425
females age 16-49: 860,669 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 696,652
females age 16-49: 731,480 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 29,990
female: 29,256 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.4% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Mongolia



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Montenegro

Introduction
Montenegro



Background:

The use of the name Montenegro began in the 15th century when the
Crnojevic dynasty began to rule the Serbian principality of Zeta;
over subsequent centuries Montenegro was able to maintain its
independence from the Ottoman Empire. From the 16th to 19th
centuries, Montenegro became a theocracy ruled by a series of bishop
princes; in 1852, it was transformed into a secular principality.
After World War I, Montenegro was absorbed by the Kingdom of Serbs,
Croats, and Slovenes, which became the Kingdom of Yugoslavia in
1929; at the conclusion of World War II, it became a constituent
republic of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. When the
latter dissolved in 1992, Montenegro federated with Serbia, first as
the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and, after 2003, in a looser
union of Serbia and Montenegro. In May 2006, Montenegro invoked its
right under the Constitutional Charter of Serbia and Montenegro to
hold a referendum on independence from the state union. The vote for
severing ties with Serbia exceeded 55% - the threshold set by the EU
- allowing Montenegro to formally declare its independence on 3 June
2006.


Geography
Montenegro



Location:

Southeastern Europe, between the Adriatic Sea and Serbia


Geographic coordinates:

42 30 N, 19 18 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 14,026 sq km
land: 13,812 sq km
water: 214 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Connecticut


Land boundaries:

total: 625 km
border countries: Albania 172 km, Bosnia and Herzegovina 225 km,
Croatia 25 km, Kosovo 79 km, Serbia 124 km


Coastline:

293.5 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
continental shelf: defined by treaty


Climate:

Mediterranean climate, hot dry summers and autumns and relatively
cold winters with heavy snowfalls inland


Terrain:

highly indented coastline with narrow coastal plain backed by rugged
high limestone mountains and plateaus


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Adriatic Sea 0 m
highest point: Bobotov Kuk 2,522 m


Natural resources:

bauxite, hydroelectricity


Land use:

arable land: 13.7%
permanent crops: 1%
other: 85.3%


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

destructive earthquakes


Environment - current issues:

pollution of coastal waters from sewage outlets, especially in
tourist-related areas such as Kotor


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Hazardous
Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ship Pollution


Geography - note:

strategic location along the Adriatic coast


People
Montenegro



Population:

678,177 (July 2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

-0.925% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

11.17 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

8.51 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: intermediate
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A
vectorborne disease: Crimean Congo hemorrhagic fever (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Montenegrin(s)
adjective: Montenegrin


Ethnic groups:

Montenegrin 43%, Serbian 32%, Bosniak 8%, Albanian 5%, other
(Muslims, Croats, Roma (Gypsy)) 12% (2003 census)


Religions:

Orthodox 74.2%, Muslim 17.7%, Catholic 3.5%, other 0.6%, unspecified
3%, atheist 1% (2003 census)


Languages:

Serbian 63.6%, Montenegrin (official) 22%, Bosnian 5.5%, Albanian
5.3%, unspecified 3.7% (2003 census)


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Montenegro



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Montenegro
local long form: none
local short form: Crna Gora
former: People's Republic of Montenegro, Socialist Republic of
Montenegro, Republic of Montenegro


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Podgorica
geographic coordinates: 42 26 N, 19 16 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1 hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

21 municipalities (opstine, singular - opstina); Andrijevica, Bar,
Berana, Bijelo Polje, Budva, Cetinje, Danilovgrad, Herceg Novi,
Kolasin, Kotor, Mojkovac, Niksic, Plav, Pljevlja, Pluzine,
Podgorica, Rozaje, Savnik, Tivat, Ulcinj, Zabljak


Independence:

3 June 2006 (from Serbia and Montenegro)


National holiday:

National Day, 13 July (1878)


Constitution:

19 October 2007 (approved by the Assembly)


Legal system:

based on civil law system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Filip VUJANOVIC (since 11 May 2003)
head of government: Prime Minister Milo DJUKANOVIC (since 29
February 2008)
cabinet: Ministries act as cabinet
elections: president elected by direct vote for five-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 6 April 2008 (next
to be held in 2013); prime minister proposed by president, accepted
by Assembly
election results: Filip VUJANOVIC reelected president; Filip
VUJANOVIC 51.89%, Andrija MANDIC 19.55%, Nebojsa MEDOJEVIC 16.64%,
Srdan MILIC 11.92%


Legislative branch:

unicameral Assembly (81 seats; members elected by direct vote for
four-year terms; changed from 74 seats in 2006)
elections: last held 10 September 2006 (next to be held 2010)
election results: percent of vote by party - Coalition for European
Montenegro 47.7%, Serbian List 14.4%, Coalition SNP-NS-DSS 13.8%,
PZP 12.9%, Liberals and Bosniaks 3.7%, other (including Albanian
minority parties) 7.5%; seats by party - Coalition for European
Montenegro 41, Serbian List 12, Coalition SNP/NS/DSS 11, PZP 11,
Liberals and Bosniaks 3, Albanian minority parties 3


Judicial branch:

Constitutional Court (five judges with nine-year terms); Supreme
Court (judges have life tenure)


Political parties and leaders:

Albanian Alternative or AA [Vesel SINISHTAJ]; Coalition for European
Montenegro or DPS-SDP (bloc) [Milo DJUKANOVIC] (includes Democratic
Party of Socialists or DPS [Milo DJUKANOVIC] and Social Democratic
Party of SDP [Ranko KRIVOKAPIC]); Coalition SNP-NS-DSS (bloc)
(includes Socialist People's Party or SNP [Srdjan MILIC], People's
Party of Montenegro or NS [Predrag POPOVIC], and Democratic Serbian
Party of Montenegro or DSS [Ranko KADIC]); Democratic League-Party
of Democratic Prosperity or SPP [Mehmet BARHDI]; Democratic Union of
Albanians or DUA [Ferhat DINOSA]; Liberals and the Bosniak Party
(bloc) [Miodrag ZIVKOVIC] (includes Liberal Party of Montenegro or
LP [Miodrag ZIVKOVIC] and Bosniak Party or BS [Rafet HUSOVIC]);
Movement for Changes or PZP [Nebojsa MEDOJEVIC]; Serbian List (bloc)
[Andrija MANDIC] (includes Party of Serb Radicals or SSR [Dusko
SEKULIC], People's Socialist Party or NSS [Emilo LABUDOVIC], and
Serbian People's Party of Montenegro or SNS [Andrija MANDIC])


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Sandzak People's Movement [Cemal SULFEJIC]


International organization participation:

CE, CEI, EAPC, EBRD, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFC,
IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO
(correspondent), ITU, ITUC, MIGA, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, PFP, SECI, UN,
UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
WTO (observer)


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Miodrag VLAHOVIC
chancery: 1610 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC, 20009
telephone: [1] (202) 234-6108
FAX: [1] (202) 234-6109
consulate(s) general: New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Roderick W. MOORE
embassy: Ljubljanska bb, 81000 Podgorica, Montenegro
mailing address: use embassy street address
telephone: [382] 81 225 417
FAX: [382] 81 241 358


Flag description:

a red field bordered by a narrow golden-yellow stripe with the
Montenegrin coat of arms centered


Economy
Montenegro



Economy - overview:

Montenegro severed its economy from federal control and from Serbia
during the MILOSEVIC era and maintained its own central bank, used
the euro instead of the Yugoslav dinar as official currency,
collected customs tariffs, and managed its own budget. The
dissolution of the loose political union between Serbia and
Montenegro in 2006 led to separate membership in several
international financial institutions, such as the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development. On 18 January 2007, Montenegro
joined the World Bank and IMF. Montenegro is pursuing its own
membership in the World Trade Organization as well as negotiating a
Stabilization and Association agreement with the European Union in
anticipation of eventual membership. Severe unemployment remains a
key political and economic problem for this entire region.
Montenegro has privatized its large aluminum complex - the dominant
industry - as well as most of its financial sector, and has begun to
attract foreign direct investment in the tourism sector.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$5.918 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$2.974 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

7.5% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$3,800 (2005 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: NA%
industry: NA%
services: NA%


Labor force:

259,100 (2004)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 2%
industry: 30%
services: 68% (2004 est.)


Unemployment rate:

14.7% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

7% (2007 est.)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

30 (2003)


Investment (gross fixed):

30.5% of GDP (2006 est.)


Budget:

revenues: NA
expenditures: NA


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

38% of GDP (2006)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

3.4% (2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

9.09% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$1.172 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$1.446 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$3.083 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

grains, tobacco, potatoes, citrus fruits, olives, grapes;
sheepherding; commercial fishing negligible


Industries:

steelmaking, aluminum, agricultural processing, consumer goods,
tourism


Electricity - production:

2.864 billion kWh (2005 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

18.6 million kWh (2005)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2005)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2005)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

450 bbl/day (2004)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

NA cu m


Current account balance:

$NA


Exports:

$171.3 million (2003)


Exports - partners:

Switzerland 83.9%, Italy 6.1%, Bosnia and Herzegovina 1.3% (2006)


Imports:

$601.7 million (2003)


Imports - partners:

Greece 10.2%, Italy 10.2%, Germany 9.6%, Bosnia and Herzegovina 9.2%
(2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$NA


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$NA


Debt - external:

$650 million (2006)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

euro (EUR)


Exchange rates:

euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006), 0.8041
(2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)


Communications
Montenegro



Telephones - main lines in use:

353,300 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

643,700 (2006)


Telephone system:

general assessment: modern telecommunications system with access to
European satellites
domestic: GSM wireless service, available through 2 providers with
national coverage, is growing rapidly
international: country code - 382; 2 international switches connect
the national system


Radio broadcast stations:

31 (station types NA) (2004)


Television broadcast stations:

13 (2004)


Internet country code:

.me


Internet users:

280,000 (2007)


Transportation
Montenegro



Airports:

5 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 3
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Railways:

total: 250 km
standard gauge: 250 km 1.435-m gauge (electrified 169 km) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 7,368 km
paved: 4,742 km
unpaved: 2,626 km (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 6
by type: cargo 5, passenger/cargo 1
registered in other countries: 3 (Bahamas 2, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Bar


Military
Montenegro



Military branches:

Armed Forces of the Republic of Montenegro: Army, Navy (serves as
Coast Guard), Air Force (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

compulsory national military service abolished August 2006


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 4,426
female: 4,201 (2008 est.)


Military - note:

Montenegrin plans call for the establishment of a fully professional
armed forces


Transnational Issues
Montenegro



Disputes - international:

none


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 7,000 (Kosovo); note - mostly ethnic
Serbs and Roma who fled Kosovo in 1999
IDPs: 16,192 (ethnic conflict in 1999 and riots in 2004) (2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Montenegro is primarily a transit country for the
trafficking of women and girls to Western Europe for the purpose of
commercial sexual exploitation; women and girls from the Balkans and
Eastern Europe are trafficked across Montenegro to Western European
countries
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Montenegro is on the Tier 2 Watch
List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to
combat trafficking in persons in 2007; public attention to the issue
of trafficking has diminished considerably in Montenegro in recent
years (2008)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Montserrat

Introduction
Montserrat



Background:

English and Irish colonists from St. Kitts first settled on
Montserrat in 1632; the first African slaves arrived three decades
later. The British and French fought for possession of the island
for most of the 18th century, but it finally was confirmed as a
British possession in 1783. The island's sugar plantation economy
was converted to small farm landholdings in the mid 19th century.
Much of this island was devastated and two-thirds of the population
fled abroad because of the eruption of the Soufriere Hills Volcano
that began on 18 July 1995. Montserrat has endured volcanic activity
since, with the last eruption occurring in July 2003.


Geography
Montserrat



Location:

Caribbean, island in the Caribbean Sea, southeast of Puerto Rico


Geographic coordinates:

16 45 N, 62 12 W


Map references:

Central America and the Caribbean


Area:

total: 102 sq km
land: 102 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

about 0.6 times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

40 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 3 nm
exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; little daily or seasonal temperature variation


Terrain:

volcanic island, mostly mountainous, with small coastal lowland


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
highest point: lava dome in English's Crater (in the Soufriere Hills
volcanic complex) estimated at over 930 m (2006)


Natural resources:

NEGL


Land use:

arable land: 20%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 80% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

severe hurricanes (June to November); volcanic eruptions (Soufriere
Hills volcano has erupted continuously since 1995)


Environment - current issues:

land erosion occurs on slopes that have been cleared for cultivation


Geography - note:

the island is entirely volcanic in origin and comprised of three
major volcanic centers of differing ages


People
Montserrat



Population:

5,079
note: an estimated 8,000 refugees left the island following the
resumption of volcanic activity in July 1995; some have returned
(July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 27.8% (male 738/female 675)
15-64 years: 64.8% (male 1,575/female 1,716)
65 years and over: 7.4% (male 245/female 130) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 28.1 years
male: 28 years
female: 28.1 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.315% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

12.01 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

8.86 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.09 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.92 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 1.88 male(s)/female
total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 16.46 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 12.19 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 20.93 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 72.6 years
male: 74.66 years
female: 70.44 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.22 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Montserratian(s)
adjective: Montserratian


Ethnic groups:

black, white


Religions:

Anglican, Methodist, Roman Catholic, Pentecostal, Seventh-Day
Adventist, other Christian denominations


Languages:

English


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over has ever attended school
total population: 97%
male: 97%
female: 97% (1970 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 16 years
male: 15 years
female: 16 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

3.3% of GDP (2004)


Government
Montserrat



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Montserrat


Dependency status:

overseas territory of the UK


Government type:

NA


Capital:

name: Plymouth
geographic coordinates: 16 42 N, 62 13 W
time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
note: Plymouth was abandoned in 1997 because of volcanic activity;
interim government buildings have been built at Brades Estate in the
Carr's Bay/Little Bay vicinity at the northwest end of Montserrat


Administrative divisions:

3 parishes; Saint Anthony, Saint Georges, Saint Peter


Independence:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


National holiday:

Birthday of Queen ELIZABETH II, second Saturday in June (1926)


Constitution:

effective 19 December 1989


Legal system:

English common law and statutory law


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by Governor Peter A. WATERWORTH (since 27 July 2007)
head of government: Chief Minister Lowell LEWIS (since 2 June 2006)
cabinet: Executive Council consists of the governor, the chief
minister, three other ministers, the attorney general, and the
finance secretary
elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor appointed by the
monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the majority
party usually becomes chief minister


Legislative branch:

unicameral Legislative Council (11 seats, 9 popularly elected;
members serve five-year terms)
note: expanded in 2001 from 7 to 9 elected members with attorney
general and financial secretary sitting as ex-officio members
elections: last held 31 May 2006 (next to be held by 2011)
election results: percent of vote by party - MCAP 36.1%, NPLM 29.4%,
MDP 24.4%, independents 10.1%; seats by party - MCAP 4, NPLM 3, MDP
1, independents 1
note: in 2001, the Elections Commission instituted a single
constituency/voter-at-large system whereby all eligible voters cast
ballots for all nine seats of the Legislative Council


Judicial branch:

Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court (based in Saint Lucia, one judge of
the Supreme Court is a resident of the islands and presides over the
High Court)


Political parties and leaders:

Montserrat Democratic Party or MDP [Lowell LEWIS]; Movement for
Change and Prosperity or MCAP [Roselyn CASSELL-SEALY]; New People's
Liberation Movement or NPLM [John A. OSBORNE]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

Caricom, CDB, Interpol (subbureau), OECS, UPU, WFTU


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


Flag description:

blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and
the Montserratian coat of arms centered in the outer half of the
flag; the coat of arms features a woman standing beside a yellow
harp with her arm around a black cross


Economy
Montserrat



Economy - overview:

Severe volcanic activity, which began in July 1995, has put a damper
on this small, open economy. A catastrophic eruption in June 1997
closed the airports and seaports, causing further economic and
social dislocation. Two-thirds of the 12,000 inhabitants fled the
island. Some began to return in 1998, but lack of housing limited
the number. The agriculture sector continued to be affected by the
lack of suitable land for farming and the destruction of crops.
Prospects for the economy depend largely on developments in relation
to the volcanic activity and on public sector construction activity.
The UK has launched a three-year $122.8 million aid program to help
reconstruct the economy. Half of the island is expected to remain
uninhabitable for another decade.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$29 million (2002 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$NA


GDP - real growth rate:

-1% (2002 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$3,400 (2002 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 1.2%
industry: 23.1%
services: 75.7% (1999 est.)


Labor force:

4,521
note: lowered by flight of people from volcanic activity (2000 est.)


Unemployment rate:

6% (1998 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $31.4 million
expenditures: $31.6 million (1997 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 April - 31 March


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.6% (2002 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

6.5% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

10.4% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$17.9 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$43.9 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$5.537 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

cabbages, carrots, cucumbers, tomatoes, onions, peppers; livestock
products


Industries:

tourism, rum, textiles, electronic appliances


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

22 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

20.46 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

505.5 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

482.6 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Exports:

$700,000 (2001)


Exports - commodities:

electronic components, plastic bags, apparel; hot peppers, limes,
live plants; cattle


Exports - partners:

US, Antigua and Barbuda (2006)


Imports:

$17 million (2001)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and transportation equipment, foodstuffs, manufactured
goods, fuels, lubricants, and related materials


Imports - partners:

US, UK, Trinidad and Tobago, Japan, Canada (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

Country Policy Plan (2001) is a three-year program for spending
$122.8 million in British budgetary assistance (2002 est.)


Debt - external:

$8.9 million (1997)


Currency (code):

East Caribbean dollar (XCD)


Currency code:

XCD


Exchange rates:

East Caribbean dollars (XCD) per US dollar - 2.7 (2007), 2.7 (2006),
2.7 (2005), 2.7 (2004), 2.7 (2003)
note: fixed rate since 1976


Communications
Montserrat



Telephones - main lines in use:

NA


Telephones - mobile cellular:

NA


Telephone system:

general assessment: modern and fully digitalized
domestic: NA
international: country code - 1-664; landing point for the East
Caribbean Fiber System (ECFS) optic submarine cable with links to 13
other islands in the eastern Caribbean extending from the British
Virgin Islands to Trinidad


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 0 (1998)


Radios:

7,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (1997)


Televisions:

3,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.ms


Internet hosts:

409 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

17 (2000)


Internet users:

NA


Transportation
Montserrat



Airports:

2 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 2
under 914 m: 2 (2007)


Roadways:

note: volcanic eruptions that began in 1995 destroyed most of the
227 km road system; a new road infrastructure has been built in the
north end of the island (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Little Bay, Plymouth


Military
Montserrat



Military branches:

no regular military forces; Royal Montserrat Police Force (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,528 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,097 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 31
female: 39 (2008 est.)


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of the UK


Transnational Issues
Montserrat



Disputes - international:

none


Illicit drugs:

transshipment point for South American narcotics destined for the US
and Europe



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Morocco

Introduction
Morocco



Background:

In 788, about a century after the Arab conquest of North Africa,
successive Moorish dynasties began to rule in Morocco. In the 16th
century, the Sa'adi monarchy, particularly under Ahmad AL-MANSUR
(1578-1603), repelled foreign invaders and inaugurated a golden age.
In 1860, Spain occupied northern Morocco and ushered in a half
century of trade rivalry among European powers that saw Morocco's
sovereignty steadily erode; in 1912, the French imposed a
protectorate over the country. A protracted independence struggle
with France ended successfully in 1956. The internationalized city
of Tangier and most Spanish possessions were turned over to the new
country that same year. Morocco virtually annexed Western Sahara
during the late 1970s, but final resolution on the status of the
territory remains unresolved. Gradual political reforms in the 1990s
resulted in the establishment of a bicameral legislature, which
first met in 1997. Improvements in human rights have occurred and
there is a largely free press. Despite the continuing reforms,
ultimate authority remains in the hands of the monarch.


Geography
Morocco



Location:

Northern Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean and the
Mediterranean Sea, between Algeria and Western Sahara


Geographic coordinates:

32 00 N, 5 00 W


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 446,550 sq km
land: 446,300 sq km
water: 250 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than California


Land boundaries:

total: 2,017.9 km
border countries: Algeria 1,559 km, Western Sahara 443 km, Spain
(Ceuta) 6.3 km, Spain (Melilla) 9.6 km


Coastline:

1,835 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 m depth or to the depth of exploitation


Climate:

Mediterranean, becoming more extreme in the interior


Terrain:

northern coast and interior are mountainous with large areas of
bordering plateaus, intermontane valleys, and rich coastal plains


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Sebkha Tah -55 m
highest point: Jebel Toubkal 4,165 m


Natural resources:

phosphates, iron ore, manganese, lead, zinc, fish, salt


Land use:

arable land: 19%
permanent crops: 2%
other: 79% (2005)


Irrigated land:

14,450 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

29 cu km (2003)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 12.6 cu km/yr (10%/3%/87%)
per capita: 400 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

northern mountains geologically unstable and subject to earthquakes;
periodic droughts


Environment - current issues:

land degradation/desertification (soil erosion resulting from
farming of marginal areas, overgrazing, destruction of vegetation);
water supplies contaminated by raw sewage; siltation of reservoirs;
oil pollution of coastal waters


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification


Geography - note:

strategic location along Strait of Gibraltar


People
Morocco



Population:

34,343,220 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 30.5% (male 5,337,322/female 5,136,156)
15-64 years: 64.3% (male 11,015,409/female 11,069,038)
65 years and over: 5.2% (male 765,882/female 1,019,412) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 24.7 years
male: 24.1 years
female: 25.2 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.505% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

21.31 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

5.49 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-0.77 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.75 male(s)/female
total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 38.22 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 41.74 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 34.53 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 71.52 years
male: 69.16 years
female: 74 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.57 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

15,000 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Moroccan(s)
adjective: Moroccan


Ethnic groups:

Arab-Berber 99.1%, other 0.7%, Jewish 0.2%


Religions:

Muslim 98.7%, Christian 1.1%, Jewish 0.2%


Languages:

Arabic (official), Berber dialects, French often the language of
business, government, and diplomacy


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 52.3%
male: 65.7%
female: 39.6% (2004 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 10 years
male: 11 years
female: 9 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Morocco



Country name:

conventional long form: Kingdom of Morocco
conventional short form: Morocco
local long form: Al Mamlakah al Maghribiyah
local short form: Al Maghrib


Government type:

constitutional monarchy


Capital:

name: Rabat
geographic coordinates: 34 01 N, 6 49 W
time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

15 regions; Grand Casablanca, Chaouia-Ouardigha, Doukkala-Abda,
Fes-Boulemane, Gharb-Chrarda-Beni Hssen, Guelmim-Es Smara,
Laayoune-Boujdour-Sakia El Hamra, Marrakech-Tensift-Al Haouz,
Meknes-Tafilalet, Oriental, Rabat-Sale-Zemmour-Zaer,
Souss-Massa-Draa, Tadla-Azilal, Tanger-Tetouan, Taza-Al
Hoceima-Taounate
note: Morocco claims the territory of Western Sahara, the political
status of which is considered undetermined by the US Government;
portions of the regions Guelmim-Es Smara and Laayoune-Boujdour-Sakia
El Hamra as claimed by Morocco lie within Western Sahara; Morocco
claims another region, Oued Eddahab-Lagouira, which falls entirely
within Western Sahara


Independence:

2 March 1956 (from France)


National holiday:

Throne Day (accession of King MOHAMED VI to the throne), 30 July
(1999)


Constitution:

10 March 1972; revised 4 September 1992, amended (to create
bicameral legislature) September 1996


Legal system:

based on Islamic law and French and Spanish civil law systems;
judicial review of legislative acts in Constitutional Chamber of
Supreme Court; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal (as of January 2003)


Executive branch:

chief of state: King MOHAMED VI (since 30 July 1999)
head of government: Prime Minister Abbas EL FASSI (since 19
September 2007)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the monarch
elections: the monarch is hereditary; prime minister appointed by
the monarch following legislative elections


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament consists of a Chamber of Counselors (or upper
house) (270 seats; members elected indirectly by local councils,
professional organizations, and labor syndicates for nine-year
terms; one-third of the members are elected every three years) and
Chamber of Representatives (or lower house) (325 seats; 295 members
elected by multi-seat constituencies and 30 from national lists of
women; members elected by popular vote for five-year terms)
elections: Chamber of Counselors - last held 8 September 2006 (next
to be held in 2009); Chamber of Representatives - last held 7
September 2007 (next to be held in 2012)
election results: Chamber of Counselors - percent of vote by party -
NA; seats by party - PI 17, MP 14, RNI 13, USFP 11, UC 6, PND 4, PPS
4, Al Ahd 4, other 17; Chamber of Representatives - percent of vote
by party - NA; seats by party - PI 52, PJD 46, MP 41, RNI 39, USFP
38, UC 27, PPS 17, FFD 9, MDS 9, Al Ahd 8, other 39


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (judges are appointed on the recommendation of the
Supreme Council of the Judiciary, presided over by the monarch)


Political parties and leaders:

Action Party or PA [Muhammad EL IDRISSI]; Alliance of Liberties or
ADL [Ali BELHAJ]; Annahj Addimocrati or Annahj [Abdellah EL HARIF];
Avant Garde Social Democratic Party or PADS [Ahmed BENJELLOUN];
Citizen Forces or FC [Abderrahman LAHJOUJI]; Citizen's Initiatives
for Development [Mohamed BENHAMOU]; Constitutional Union or UC
[Mohamed ABIED]; Democratic and Independence Party or PDI
[Abdelwahed MAACH]; Democratic and Social Movement or MDS [Mahmoud
ARCHANE]; Democratic Forces Front or FFD; Democratic Socialist Party
or PSD [Aissa OUARDIGHI]; Democratic Society Party or PSD [Zhor
CHEKKAFI]; Democratic Union or UD [Bouazza IKKEN]; Environment and
Development Party or PED [Ahmed EL ALAMI]; Front of Democratic
Forces or FFD [Thami EL KHYARI]; Independence Party (Istiqlal) or PI
[Abbas EL FASSI]; Justice and Development Party or PJD [Abdelilah
BENKIRANE]; Labor Party [Abdelkrim BENATIK]; Moroccan Liberal Party
or PML [Mohamed ZIANE]; National Democratic Party or PND [Abdallah
KADIRI]; National Ittihadi Congress Party or CNI [Abdelmajid
BOUZOUBAA]; National Rally of Independents or RNI [Mustapha EL
MANSOURI]; National Union of Popular Forces or UNFP [Abdellah
IBRAHIM]; Parti Al Ahd or Al Ahd [Najib EL OUAZZANI]; Party of
Progress and Socialism or PPS [Ismail ALAOUI]; Party of Renewal and
Equity or PRE [Chakir ACHABAR]; Party of the Unified Socialist Left
or GSU [Mohamed Ben Said AIT IDDER]; Popular Movement or MP [Mohamed
LAENSER]; Reform and Development Party or PRD [Abderrahmane EL
KOUHEN]; Social Center Party or PSC [Lahcen MADIH]; Socialist Union
of Popular Forces or USFP


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Democratic Confederation of Labor or CDT [Noubir AMAOUI]; General
Union of Moroccan Workers or UGTM [Abderrazzak AFILAL]; Moroccan
Employers Association or CGEM [Hassan CHAMI]; National Labor Union
of Morocco or UNMT [Abdelslam MAATI]; Union of Moroccan Workers or
UMT [Mahjoub BENSEDDIK]


International organization participation:

ABEDA, AfDB, AFESD, AMF, AMU, EBRD, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICC, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO,
IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAS,
MIGA, MONUC, NAM, OAS (observer), OIC, OIF, OPCW, OSCE (partner),
PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO,
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Aziz MEKOUAR
chancery: 1601 21st Street NW, Washington, DC 20009
telephone: [1] (202) 462-7979
FAX: [1] (202) 265-0161
consulate(s) general: New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Thomas T. RILEY
embassy: 2 Avenue de Mohamed El Fassi, Rabat
mailing address: PSC 74, Box 021, APO AE 09718
telephone: [212] (37) 76 22 65
FAX: [212] (37) 76 56 61
consulate(s) general: Casablanca


Flag description:

red with a green pentacle (five-pointed, linear star) known as
Sulayman's (Solomon's) seal in the center of the flag; red and green
are traditional colors in Arab flags, although the use of red is
more commonly associated with the Arab states of the Persian gulf;
design dates to 1912


Economy
Morocco



Economy - overview:

Moroccan economic policies brought macroeconomic stability to the
country in the early 1990s but have not spurred growth sufficient to
reduce unemployment - nearing 20% in urban areas - despite the
Moroccan Government's ongoing efforts to diversify the economy.
Morocco's GDP growth rate slowed to 2.1% in 2007 as a result of a
draught that severely reduced agricultural output and necessitated
wheat imports at rising world prices. Continued dependence on
foreign energy and Morocco's inability to develop small and medium
size enterprises also contributed to the slowdown. Moroccan
authorities understand that reducing poverty and providing jobs are
key to domestic security and development. In 2005, Morocco launched
the National Initiative for Human Development (INDH), a $2 billion
social development plan to address poverty and unemployment and to
improve the living conditions of the country's urban slums. Moroccan
authorities are implementing reform efforts to open the economy to
international investors. Despite structural adjustment programs
supported by the IMF, the World Bank, and the Paris Club, the dirham
is only fully convertible for current account transactions. In 2000,
Morocco entered an Association Agreement with the EU and, in 2006,
entered a Free Trade Agreement (FTA) with the US. Long-term
challenges include improving education and job prospects for
Morocco's youth, and closing the income gap between the rich and the
poor, which the government hopes to achieve by increasing tourist
arrivals and boosting competitiveness in textiles.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$125 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$73.43 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

2.2% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$3,700 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 13.8%
industry: 38.4%
services: 47.8% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

11.39 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 40%
industry: 15%
services: 45% (2003 est.)


Unemployment rate:

9.8% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

15% (2007 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.6%
highest 10%: 30.9% (1999)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

40 (2005 est.)


Investment (gross fixed):

29.7% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $20.49 billion
expenditures: $21.85 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

67.4% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

3.25% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

NA (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$67.42 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$16.23 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$71.9 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

barley, wheat, citrus, wine, vegetables, olives; livestock


Industries:

phosphate rock mining and processing, food processing, leather
goods, textiles, construction, tourism


Industrial production growth rate:

5% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

21.88 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

19.58 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

1.998 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 95.4%
hydro: 4.6%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

3,746 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

179,700 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

24,360 bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - imports:

192,500 bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - proved reserves:

836,000 bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

60 million cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

60 million cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

1.557 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$1.834 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$12.75 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

clothing and textiles, electric components, inorganic chemicals,
transistors, crude minerals, fertilizers (including phosphates),
petroleum products, citrus fruits, vegetables, fish


Exports - partners:

Spain 21.2%, France 19%, Italy 4.9%, UK 4.6%, India 4.2% (2007)


Imports:

$28.5 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

crude petroleum, textile fabric, telecommunications equipment,
wheat, gas and electricity, transistors, plastics


Imports - partners:

France 16.1%, Spain 13.6%, China 7.3%, Italy 6.7%, Saudi Arabia
6.4%, Germany 5.9%, US 4.5%, Netherlands 4.1% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

ODA, $651.8 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$24.72 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$19.91 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$32.9 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$882 million (2006 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$49.6 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

Moroccan dirham (MAD)


Currency code:

MAD


Exchange rates:

Moroccan dirhams (MAD) per US dollar - 8.3563 (2007), 8.7722 (2006),
8.865 (2005), 8.868 (2004), 9.574 (2003)


Communications
Morocco



Telephones - main lines in use:

2.394 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

20.029 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: modern system with all important capabilities;
however, density is low with only 7 fixed lines available for each
100 persons; mobile-cellular subscribership is approaching 60 per
100 persons
domestic: good system composed of open-wire lines, cables, and
microwave radio relay links; Internet available but expensive;
principal switching centers are Casablanca and Rabat; national
network nearly 100% digital using fiber-optic links; improved rural
service employs microwave radio relay
international: country code - 212; landing point for the SEA-ME-WE-3
optical telecommunications submarine cable that provides
connectivity to Asia, the Middle East, and Europe; satellite earth
stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) and 1 Arabsat; microwave
radio relay to Gibraltar, Spain, and Western Sahara; coaxial cable
and microwave radio relay to Algeria; participant in Medarabtel;
fiber-optic cable link from Agadir to Algeria and Tunisia (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 27, FM 25, shortwave 6 (1998)


Radios:

6.64 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

35 (plus 66 repeaters) (1995)


Televisions:

3.1 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.ma


Internet hosts:

275,889 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

8 (2000)


Internet users:

7.3 million (2007)


Transportation
Morocco



Airports:

60 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 27
over 3,047 m: 11
2,438 to 3,047 m: 6
1,524 to 2,437 m: 7
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 2 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 33
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 9
914 to 1,523 m: 11
under 914 m: 11 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 720 km; oil 439 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 1,907 km
standard gauge: 1,907 km 1.435-m gauge (1,003 km electrified) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 57,625 km
paved: 35,664 km (includes 639 km of expressways)
unpaved: 21,961 km (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 35
by type: cargo 3, chemical tanker 6, container 8, passenger/cargo
13, petroleum tanker 1, roll on/roll off 4
foreign-owned: 16 (France 14, Germany 2)
registered in other countries: 4 (Gibraltar 4) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Agadir, Casablanca, Mohammedia, Safi


Military
Morocco



Military branches:

Royal Armed Forces (Forces Armees Royales, FAR): Royal Moroccan Army
(includes Air Defense), Navy (includes Marines), Royal Moroccan Air
Force (Al Quwwat al Jawyiya al Malakiya Marakishiya; Force Aerienne
Royale Marocaine) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military service;
conscript service obligation - 18 months (2004)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 9,152,580
females age 16-49: 9,080,830 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 7,627,988
females age 16-49: 7,754,873 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 355,479
female: 343,016 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

5% of GDP (2003 est.)


Transnational Issues
Morocco



Disputes - international:

claims and administers Western Sahara whose sovereignty remains
unresolved - UN-administered cease-fire has remained in effect since
September 1991, but attempts to hold a referendum have failed and
parties thus far have rejected all brokered proposals; Morocco
protests Spain's control over the coastal enclaves of Ceuta,
Melilla, and Penon de Velez de la Gomera, the islands of Penon de
Alhucemas and Islas Chafarinas, and surrounding waters; discussions
have not progressed on a comprehensive maritime delimitation,
setting limits on resource exploration and refugee interdiction,
since Morocco's 2002 rejection of Spain's unilateral designation of
a median line from the Canary Islands; Morocco serves as one of the
primary launching areas of illegal migration into Spain from North
Africa


Illicit drugs:

one of the world's largest producers of illicit hashish; shipments
of hashish mostly directed to Western Europe; transit point for
cocaine from South America destined for Western Europe; significant
consumer of cannabis



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Mozambique

Introduction
Mozambique



Background:

Almost five centuries as a Portuguese colony came to a close with
independence in 1975. Large-scale emigration by whites, economic
dependence on South Africa, a severe drought, and a prolonged civil
war hindered the country's development until the mid 1990's. The
ruling Front for the Liberation of Mozambique (FRELIMO) party
formally abandoned Marxism in 1989, and a new constitution the
following year provided for multiparty elections and a free market
economy. A UN-negotiated peace agreement between FRELIMO and rebel
Mozambique National Resistance (RENAMO) forces ended the fighting in
1992. In December 2004, Mozambique underwent a delicate transition
as Joaquim CHISSANO stepped down after 18 years in office. His
elected successor, Armando Emilio GUEBUZA, promised to continue the
sound economic policies that have encouraged foreign investment.
Mozambique has seen very strong economic growth since the end of the
civil war largely due to post-conflict reconstruction.


Geography
Mozambique



Location:

Southeastern Africa, bordering the Mozambique Channel, between South
Africa and Tanzania


Geographic coordinates:

18 15 S, 35 00 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 801,590 sq km
land: 784,090 sq km
water: 17,500 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly less than twice the size of California


Land boundaries:

total: 4,571 km
border countries: Malawi 1,569 km, South Africa 491 km, Swaziland
105 km, Tanzania 756 km, Zambia 419 km, Zimbabwe 1,231 km


Coastline:

2,470 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical to subtropical


Terrain:

mostly coastal lowlands, uplands in center, high plateaus in
northwest, mountains in west


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
highest point: Monte Binga 2,436 m


Natural resources:

coal, titanium, natural gas, hydropower, tantalum, graphite


Land use:

arable land: 5.43%
permanent crops: 0.29%
other: 94.28% (2005)


Irrigated land:

1,180 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

216 cu km (1992)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.63 cu km/yr (11%/2%/87%)
per capita: 32 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

severe droughts; devastating cyclones and floods in central and
southern provinces


Environment - current issues:

a long civil war and recurrent drought in the hinterlands have
resulted in increased migration of the population to urban and
coastal areas with adverse environmental consequences;
desertification; pollution of surface and coastal waters; elephant
poaching for ivory is a problem


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

the Zambezi flows through the north-central and most fertile part of
the country


People
Mozambique



Population:

21,284,700
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected; the 1997
Mozambican census reported a population of 16,099,246 (July 2008
est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 44.5% (male 4,762,335/female 4,711,422)
15-64 years: 52.7% (male 5,472,184/female 5,736,154)
65 years and over: 2.8% (male 251,026/female 351,580) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 17.4 years
male: 17 years
female: 17.8 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.792% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

38.21 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

20.29 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.02 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.95 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.71 male(s)/female
total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 107.84 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 110.67 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 104.97 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 41.04 years
male: 41.62 years
female: 40.44 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

5.24 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

12.2% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

1.3 million (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

110,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: malaria and plague
water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Mozambican(s)
adjective: Mozambican


Ethnic groups:

African 99.66% (Makhuwa, Tsonga, Lomwe, Sena, and others), Europeans
0.06%, Euro-Africans 0.2%, Indians 0.08%


Religions:

Catholic 23.8%, Muslim 17.8%, Zionist Christian 17.5%, other 17.8%,
none 23.1% (1997 census)


Languages:

Emakhuwa 26.1%, Xichangana 11.3%, Portuguese 8.8% (official; spoken
by 27% of population as a second language), Elomwe 7.6%, Cisena
6.8%, Echuwabo 5.8%, other Mozambican languages 32%, other foreign
languages 0.3%, unspecified 1.3% (1997 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 47.8%
male: 63.5%
female: 32.7% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 8 years
male: 9 years
female: 7 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

5% of GDP (2005)


Government
Mozambique



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Mozambique
conventional short form: Mozambique
local long form: Republica de Mocambique
local short form: Mocambique
former: Portuguese East Africa


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Maputo
geographic coordinates: 25 57 S, 32 35 E
time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

10 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia), 1 city (cidade)*;
Cabo Delgado, Gaza, Inhambane, Manica, Maputo, Cidade de Maputo*,
Nampula, Niassa, Sofala, Tete, Zambezia


Independence:

25 June 1975 (from Portugal)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 25 June (1975)


Constitution:

30 November 1990


Legal system:

based on Portuguese civil law system and customary law; has not
accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Armando GUEBUZA (since 2 February 2005)
head of government: Prime Minister Luisa DIOGO (since 17 February
2004)
cabinet: Cabinet
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 1-2 December 2004
(next to be held in December 2009); prime minister appointed by the
president
election results: Armando GUEBUZA elected president; percent of vote
- Armando GUEBUZA 63.7%, Afonso DHLAKAMA 31.7%


Legislative branch:

unicameral Assembly of the Republic or Assembleia da Republica (250
seats; members are directly elected by popular vote to serve
five-year terms)
elections: last held 1-2 December 2004 (next to be held in December
2009)
election results: percent of vote by party - FRELIMO 62%, RENAMO
29.7%, other 8.3%; seats by party - FRELIMO 160, RENAMO 90


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (the court of final appeal; some of its professional
judges are appointed by the president and some are elected by the
Assembly); other courts include an Administrative Court, customs
courts, maritime courts, courts marshal, labor courts
note: although the constitution provides for a separate
Constitutional Court, one has never been established; in its absence
the Supreme Court reviews constitutional cases


Political parties and leaders:

Front for the Liberation of Mozambique (Frente de Liberatacao de
Mocambique) or FRELIMO [Armando Emilio GUEBUZA]; Mozambique National
Resistance-Electoral Union (Resistencia Nacional Mocambicana-Uniao
Eleitoral) or RENAMO-UE [Afonso DHLAKAMA]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Etica [Abdul CARIMO Issa, chairman]; Human Rights and Development
(Direitos Humanos e Desenvolvimento) or DHD [Artemisia FRANCO,
secretary general]; Institute for Peace and Democracy (Instituto
para Paz e Democracia) or IPADE [Raul DOMINGOS, president]; Movement
for Peace and Citizenship (Movimento para Paz e Cidadania);
Mozambican League of Human Rights (Liga Mocambicana dos Direitos
Humanos) or LDH [Alice MABOTE, president]


International organization participation:

ACP, AfDB, AU, C, CPLP, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt
(signatory), ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITSO,
ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MONUC, NAM, OIC, OIF (observer), OPCW, SADC, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNMIS, UNWTO, UPU, WCO,
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Armando Alexandre PANGUENE
chancery: 1525 New Hampshire Avenue, Washington, DC 20036
telephone: [1] (202) 293-7146
FAX: [1] (202) 835-0245


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Todd C.
CHAPMAN
embassy: Avenida Kenneth Kuanda 193, Maputo
mailing address: P. O. Box 783, Maputo
telephone: [258] (21) 492797
FAX: [258] (21) 490114


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of green (top), black, and yellow with
a red isosceles triangle based on the hoist side; the black band is
edged in white; centered in the triangle is a yellow five-pointed
star bearing a crossed rifle and hoe in black superimposed on an
open white book


Economy
Mozambique



Economy - overview:

At independence in 1975, Mozambique was one of the world's poorest
countries. Socialist mismanagement and a brutal civil war from
1977-92 exacerbated the situation. In 1987, the government embarked
on a series of macroeconomic reforms designed to stabilize the
economy. These steps, combined with donor assistance and with
political stability since the multi-party elections in 1994, have
led to dramatic improvements in the country's growth rate. Inflation
was reduced to single digits during the late 1990s, and although it
returned to double digits in 2000-06, in 2007 inflation had slowed
to 8%, while GDP growth reached 7.5%. Fiscal reforms, including the
introduction of a value-added tax and reform of the customs service,
have improved the government's revenue collection abilities. In
spite of these gains, Mozambique remains dependent upon foreign
assistance for much of its annual budget, and the majority of the
population remains below the poverty line. Subsistence agriculture
continues to employ the vast majority of the country's work force. A
substantial trade imbalance persists although the opening of the
Mozal aluminum smelter, the country's largest foreign investment
project to date, has increased export earnings. At the end of 2007,
and after years of negotiations, the government took over Portugal's
majority share of the Cahora Bassa Hydroelectricity (HCB) company, a
dam that was not transferred to Mozambique at independence because
of the ensuing civil war and unpaid debts. More power is needed for
additional investment projects in titanium extraction and processing
and garment manufacturing that could further close the import/export
gap. Mozambique's once substantial foreign debt has been reduced
through forgiveness and rescheduling under the IMF's Heavily
Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) and Enhanced HIPC initiatives, and is
now at a manageable level. In July 2007 the Millennium Challenge
Corporation (MCC) signed a Compact with Mozambique; the Mozambican
government moved rapidly to ratify the Compact and propose a plan
for funding.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$17.64 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$7.559 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

7.3% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$800 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 23%
industry: 30.1%
services: 46.9% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

9.6 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 81%
industry: 6%
services: 13% (1997 est.)


Unemployment rate:

21% (1997 est.)


Population below poverty line:

70% (2001 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.1%
highest 10%: 39.4% (2002)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

47.3 (2002)


Investment (gross fixed):

21.3% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $2.302 billion
expenditures: $2.63 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

22.2% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

8.2% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

9.95% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

19.52% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$1.261 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$1.467 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$877.2 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

cotton, cashew nuts, sugarcane, tea, cassava (tapioca), corn,
coconuts, sisal, citrus and tropical fruits, potatoes, sunflowers;
beef, poultry


Industries:

food, beverages, chemicals (fertilizer, soap, paints), aluminum,
petroleum products, textiles, cement, glass, asbestos, tobacco


Industrial production growth rate:

10% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

14.62 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

9.555 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

12.83 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - imports:

9.839 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 2.9%
hydro: 97.1%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

14,390 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

13,240 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

1.65 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

1.45 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2005 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

127.4 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$795.1 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$2.412 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

aluminum, prawns, cashews, cotton, sugar, citrus, timber; bulk
electricity


Exports - partners:

Italy 19.4%, Belgium 18.4%, Spain 12.5%, South Africa 12.3%, UK
7.3%, China 4.1% (2007)


Imports:

$2.811 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, vehicles, fuel, chemicals, metal products,
foodstuffs, textiles


Imports - partners:

South Africa 36.7%, Australia 8.5%, China 4.6% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$1.286 billion (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$1.445 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$4.189 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

metical (MZM)


Currency code:

MZM


Exchange rates:

meticais (MZM) per US dollar - 26.264 (2007), 25.4 (2006), 23,061
(2005), 22,581 (2004), 23,782 (2003)
note: in 2006 Mozambique revalued its currency, with 1000 old
meticais equal to 1 new meticais


Communications
Mozambique



Telephones - main lines in use:

67,000 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

3.3 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: fair system with an extremely low density of
less than 1 fixed line per 100 persons
domestic: the telecommunications sector is shackled with a heavy
state presence, lack of competition, and high operating costs and
charges; stagnation in the fixed-line network contrasts with rapid
growth in the mobile-cellular network; mobile-cellular coverage now
includes all the main cities and key roads, including those from
Maputo to the South African and Swaziland borders, the national
highway through Gaza and Inhambane provinces, the Beira corridor,
and from Nampula to Nacala
international: country code - 258; satellite earth stations - 5
Intelsat (2 Atlantic Ocean and 3 Indian Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 13, FM 17, shortwave 11 (2001)


Radios:

730,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (2000)


Televisions:

67,600 (2000)


Internet country code:

.mz


Internet hosts:

22,532 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

11 (2002)


Internet users:

200,000 (2007)


Transportation
Mozambique



Airports:

147 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 22
over 3,047 m: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 3
1,524 to 2,437 m: 10
914 to 1,523 m: 3
under 914 m: 5 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 125
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 9
914 to 1,523 m: 36
under 914 m: 79 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 964 km; refined products 278 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 3,123 km
narrow gauge: 2,983 km 1.067-m gauge; 140 km 0.762-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 30,400 km
paved: 5,685 km
unpaved: 24,715 km (2000)


Waterways:

460 km (Zambezi River navigable to Tete and along Cahora Bassa Lake)
(2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 2
by type: cargo 2
foreign-owned: 2 (Belgium 2) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Beira, Maputo, Nacala


Military
Mozambique



Military branches:

Mozambique Armed Defense Forces (FADM): Mozambique Army, Mozambique
Navy (Marinha Mocambique, MM), Mozambique Air Force (Forca Aerea de
Mocambique, FAM) (2006)


Military service age and obligation:

18-30 years of age for compulsory military service; 2-year service
obligation (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 4,545,975 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,287,526 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 257,261
female: 259,114 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0.8% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Mozambique



Disputes - international:

none


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Mozambique is a source and, to a much lesser
extent, a destination country for men, women, and children
trafficked for the purposes of forced labor and sexual exploitation;
the use of forced and bonded child laborers is a common practice in
Mozambique's rural areas; women and girls are trafficked from rural
to urban areas of Mozambique, as well as to South Africa, for
domestic servitude and commercial sexual exploitation; young men and
boys are trafficked to South Africa for farm work and mining
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - for the second consecutive year,
Mozambique is on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to provide
evidence of increasing efforts to combat human trafficking in 2007;
while the government conducted investigations into cases of human
trafficking, there were no prosecutions or convictions of
traffickers; government efforts to protect victims of trafficking
continued to suffer from limited resources and a lack of political
commitment (2008)


Illicit drugs:

southern African transit point for South Asian hashish and heroin,
and South American cocaine probably destined for the European and
South African markets; producer of cannabis (for local consumption)
and methaqualone (for export to South Africa); corruption and poor
regulatory capability makes the banking system vulnerable to money
laundering, but the lack of a well-developed financial
infrastructure limits the country's utility as a money-laundering
center



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Namibia

Introduction
Namibia



Background:

South Africa occupied the German colony of South-West Africa during
World War I and administered it as a mandate until after World War
II, when it annexed the territory. In 1966 the Marxist South-West
Africa People's Organization (SWAPO) guerrilla group launched a war
of independence for the area that was soon named Namibia, but it was
not until 1988 that South Africa agreed to end its administration in
accordance with a UN peace plan for the entire region. Namibia has
been governed by SWAPO since the country won independence in 1990.
Hifikepunye POHAMBA was elected president in November 2004 in a
landslide victory replacing Sam NUJOMA who led the country during
its first 14 years of self rule.


Geography
Namibia



Location:

Southern Africa, bordering the South Atlantic Ocean, between Angola
and South Africa


Geographic coordinates:

22 00 S, 17 00 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 825,418 sq km
land: 825,418 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly more than half the size of Alaska


Land boundaries:

total: 3,936 km
border countries: Angola 1,376 km, Botswana 1,360 km, South Africa
967 km, Zambia 233 km


Coastline:

1,572 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

desert; hot, dry; rainfall sparse and erratic


Terrain:

mostly high plateau; Namib Desert along coast; Kalahari Desert in
east


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Konigstein 2,606 m


Natural resources:

diamonds, copper, uranium, gold, silver, lead, tin, lithium,
cadmium, tungsten, zinc, salt, hydropower, fish
note: suspected deposits of oil, coal, and iron ore


Land use:

arable land: 0.99%
permanent crops: 0.01%
other: 99% (2005)


Irrigated land:

80 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

45.5 cu km (1991)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.3 cu km/yr (24%/5%/71%)
per capita: 148 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

prolonged periods of drought


Environment - current issues:

limited natural fresh water resources; desertification; wildlife
poaching; land degradation has led to few conservation areas


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Biodiversity, Climate
Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered
Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection,
Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

first country in the world to incorporate the protection of the
environment into its constitution; some 14% of the land is
protected, including virtually the entire Namib Desert coastal strip


People
Namibia



Population:

2,088,669
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 36.7% (male 386,252/female 379,426)
15-64 years: 59.5% (male 627,752/female 615,241)
65 years and over: 3.8% (male 35,960/female 44,038) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 20.7 years
male: 20.6 years
female: 20.8 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.947% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

23.19 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

14.07 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

0.35 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.82 male(s)/female
total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 45.64 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 49.24 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 41.93 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 49.89 years
male: 50.39 years
female: 49.38 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.81 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

21.3% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

210,000 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

16,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever
vectorborne disease: malaria
water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Namibian(s)
adjective: Namibian


Ethnic groups:

black 87.5%, white 6%, mixed 6.5%
note: about 50% of the population belong to the Ovambo tribe and 9%
to the Kavangos tribe; other ethnic groups include Herero 7%, Damara
7%, Nama 5%, Caprivian 4%, Bushmen 3%, Baster 2%, Tswana 0.5%


Religions:

Christian 80% to 90% (Lutheran 50% at least), indigenous beliefs 10%
to 20%


Languages:

English 7% (official), Afrikaans common language of most of the
population and about 60% of the white population, German 32%,
indigenous languages 1% (includes Oshivambo, Herero, Nama)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 85%
male: 86.8%
female: 83.5% (2001 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 11 years
male: 11 years
female: 11 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

6.9% of GDP (2003)


Government
Namibia



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Namibia
conventional short form: Namibia
local long form: Republic of Namibia
local short form: Namibia
former: German Southwest Africa, South-West Africa


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Windhoek
geographic coordinates: 22 34 S, 17 05 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins first Sunday in September; ends
first Sunday in April


Administrative divisions:

13 regions; Caprivi, Erongo, Hardap, Karas, Khomas, Kunene,
Ohangwena, Okavango, Omaheke, Omusati, Oshana, Oshikoto, Otjozondjupa


Independence:

21 March 1990 (from South African mandate)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 21 March (1990)


Constitution:

ratified 9 February 1990, effective 12 March 1990


Legal system:

based on Roman-Dutch law and 1990 constitution; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Hifikepunye POHAMBA (since 21 March 2005)
head of government: Prime Minister Nahas ANGULA (since 21 March 2005)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president from among the members
of the National Assembly
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 15 November 2004
(next to be held in November 2009)
election results: Hifikepunye POHAMBA elected president; percent of
vote - Hifikepunye POHAMBA 76.4%, Den ULENGA 7.3%, Katuutire KAURA
5.1%, Kuaima RIRUAKO 4.2%, Justus GAROEB 3.8%, other 3.2%


Legislative branch:

bicameral legislature consists of the National Council (26 seats;
two members are chosen from each regional council to serve six-year
terms) and the National Assembly (72 seats; members are elected by
popular vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: National Council - elections for regional councils to
determine members of the National Council held 29-30 November 2004
(next to be held in November 2010); National Assembly - last held
15-16 November 2004 (next to be held in November 2009)
election results: National Council - percent of vote by party -
SWAPO 89.7%, UDF 4.7%, NUDO 2.8%, DTA 1.9%, other 0.9%; seats by
party - SWAPO 24, UDF 1, DTA 1; National Assembly - percent of vote
by party - SWAPO 76.1%, COD 7.3%, DTA 5.1%, NUDO 4.2%, UDF 3.6%, RP
1.9%, MAG 0.8%, other 1.0%; seats by party - SWAPO 55, COD 5, DTA 4,
NUDO 3, UDF 3, RP 1, MAG 1
note: the National Council is primarily an advisory body


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (judges appointed by the president on the
recommendation of the Judicial Service Commission)


Political parties and leaders:

Congress of Democrats or COD [Ben ULENGA]; Democratic Turnhalle
Alliance of Namibia or DTA [Katuutire KAURA]; Monitor Action Group
or MAG [Jurie VILJOEN]; National Democratic Movement for Change or
NamDMC; National Unity Democratic Organization or NUDO [Kuaima
RIRUAKO]; Rally for Democracy and Progress or RDP [Hidipo
HAMUTENYA]; Republican Party or RP [Henk MUDGE]; South West Africa
National Union or SWANU [Rihupisa KANDANDO]; South West Africa
People's Organization or SWAPO [Hifikepunye POHAMBA]; United
Democratic Front or UDF [Justus GAROEB]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Earthlife Namibia [Berthchen KOHRS] (environmentalist group);
National Society for Human Rights or NSHR; The World Information
Services of Energy or WISE (group against nuclear power)


International organization participation:

ACP, AfDB, AU, C, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), IPU,
ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, MIGA, NAM, OPCW, SACU, SADC, UN,
UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOCI, UNWTO,
UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Patrick NANDAGO
chancery: 1605 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009
telephone: [1] (202) 986-0540
FAX: [1] (202) 986-0443


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador G. Dennise MATHIEU
embassy: 14 Lossen Street, Windhoek
mailing address: Private Bag 12029 Ausspannplatz, Windhoek
telephone: [264] (61) 295-8500
FAX: [264] (61) 295-8603


Flag description:

a wide red stripe edged by narrow white stripes divides the flag
diagonally from lower hoist corner to upper fly corner; the upper
hoist-side triangle is blue and charged with a yellow, 12-rayed
sunburst; the lower fly-side triangle is green


Economy
Namibia



Economy - overview:

The economy is heavily dependent on the extraction and processing of
minerals for export. Mining accounts for 8% of GDP, but provides
more than 50% of foreign exchange earnings. Rich alluvial diamond
deposits make Namibia a primary source for gem-quality diamonds.
Namibia is the fourth-largest exporter of nonfuel minerals in
Africa, the world's fifth-largest producer of uranium, and the
producer of large quantities of lead, zinc, tin, silver, and
tungsten. The mining sector employs only about 3% of the population
while about half of the population depends on subsistence
agriculture for its livelihood. Namibia normally imports about 50%
of its cereal requirements; in drought years food shortages are a
major problem in rural areas. A high per capita GDP, relative to the
region, hides one of the world's most unequal income distributions.
The Namibian economy is closely linked to South Africa with the
Namibian dollar pegged one-to-one to the South African rand.
Increased payments from the Southern African Customs Union (SACU)
put Namibia's budget into surplus in 2007 for the first time since
independence, but SACU payments will decline after 2008 as part of a
new revenue sharing formula. Increased fish production and mining of
zinc, copper, uranium, and silver spurred growth in 2003-07, but
growth in recent years was undercut by poor fish catches and high
costs for metal inputs.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$10.69 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$7.4 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

3.6% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$5,200 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 10.6%
industry: 35.4%
services: 53.9% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

660,000 (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 47%
industry: 20%
services: 33% (1999 est.)


Unemployment rate:

5.2% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

the UNDP's 2005 Human Development Report indicated that 34.9% of the
population live on $1 per day and 55.8% live on $2 per day


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 0.5%
highest 10%: 64.5% (2003)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

70.7 (2003)


Investment (gross fixed):

23.8% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $2.765 billion
expenditures: $2.515 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 April - 31 March


Public debt:

22.3% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

6.7% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

10.5% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

12.88% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$2.149 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$1.493 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$4.446 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

millet, sorghum, peanuts, grapes; livestock; fish


Industries:

meatpacking, fish processing, dairy products; mining (diamonds,
lead, zinc, tin, silver, tungsten, uranium, copper)


Industrial production growth rate:

9% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

1.606 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

3.194 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

40 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

1.948 billion kWh; note - electricity supplied by South Africa (2006
est.)


Electricity - production by source:

NA


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

19,840 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

17,750 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

62.29 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$805.2 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$2.919 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

diamonds, copper, gold, zinc, lead, uranium; cattle, processed fish,
karakul skins


Exports - partners:

South Africa 33.4%, US 4% (2006)


Imports:

$3.091 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

foodstuffs; petroleum products and fuel, machinery and equipment,
chemicals


Imports - partners:

South Africa 85.2%, US (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

ODA, $123.4 million (2005 est.)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$896 million (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$1.003 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$NA


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$541.8 million (2006)


Currency (code):

Namibian dollar (NAD); South African rand (ZAR)


Currency code:

NAD; ZAR


Exchange rates:

Namibian dollars (NAD) per US dollar - 7.18 (2007), 6.7649 (2006),
6.3593 (2005), 6.4597 (2004), 7.5648 (2003)


Communications
Namibia



Telephones - main lines in use:

138,100 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

800,300 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: good system with a combined fixed-line and
mobile-cellular teledensity of about 45 per 100 persons
domestic: core fiber-optic network links most centers and
connections are now digital; Namibia's first mobile-cellular
network, launched in 1994, provides coverage to 86 percent of
Namibia by area
international: country code - 264; fiber-optic cable to South
Africa, microwave radio relay link to Botswana, direct links to
other neighboring countries; connected to the South African Far East
(SAFE) submarine cable through South Africa; satellite earth
stations - 4 Intelsat (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 2, FM 39, shortwave 4 (2001)


Radios:

232,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

2 (2007)


Televisions:

60,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.na


Internet hosts:

6,296 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

2 (2000)


Internet users:

101,000 (2007)


Transportation
Namibia



Airports:

137 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 21
over 3,047 m: 3
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 13
914 to 1,523 m: 3 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 116
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 22
914 to 1,523 m: 72
under 914 m: 20 (2007)


Railways:

total: 2,382 km
narrow gauge: 2,382 km 1.067-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 42,237 km
paved: 5,406 km
unpaved: 36,831 km (2002)


Merchant marine:

total: 1
by type: cargo 1
registered in other countries: 1 (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Luderitz, Walvis Bay


Military
Namibia



Military branches:

Namibian Defense Force: Army, Navy, Air Wing (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18-25 years of age for voluntary military service; no conscription
(2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 527,948 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 313,497 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 25,525
female: 25,182 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

3.7% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Namibia



Disputes - international:

concerns from international experts and local populations over the
Okavango Delta ecology in Botswana and human displacement scuttled
Namibian plans to construct a hydroelectric dam on Popa Falls along
the Angola-Namibia border; managed dispute with South Africa over
the location of the boundary in the Orange River; Namibia has
supported, and in 2004 Zimbabwe dropped objections to, plans between
Botswana and Zambia to build a bridge over the Zambezi River,
thereby de facto recognizing a short, but not clearly delimited,
Botswana-Zambia boundary in the river


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 4,700 (Angola) (2007)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Nauru

Introduction
Nauru



Background:

The exact origins of the Nauruans are unclear, since their language
does not resemble any other in the Pacific. The island was annexed
by Germany in 1888 and its phosphate deposits began to be mined
early in the 20th century by a German-British consortium. Nauru was
occupied by Australian forces in World War I and subsequently became
a League of Nations mandate. After the Second World War - and a
brutal occupation by Japan - Nauru became a UN trust territory. It
achieved its independence in 1968 and joined the UN in 1999 as the
world's smallest independent republic.


Geography
Nauru



Location:

Oceania, island in the South Pacific Ocean, south of the Marshall
Islands


Geographic coordinates:

0 32 S, 166 55 E


Map references:

Oceania


Area:

total: 21 sq km
land: 21 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

about 0.1 times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

30 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical with a monsoonal pattern; rainy season (November to
February)


Terrain:

sandy beach rises to fertile ring around raised coral reefs with
phosphate plateau in center


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: unnamed location along plateau rim 61 m


Natural resources:

phosphates, fish


Land use:

arable land: 0%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 100% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

periodic droughts


Environment - current issues:

limited natural fresh water resources, roof storage tanks collect
rainwater, but mostly dependent on a single, aging desalination
plant; intensive phosphate mining during the past 90 years - mainly
by a UK, Australia, and NZ consortium - has left the central 90% of
Nauru a wasteland and threatens limited remaining land resources


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

Nauru is one of the three great phosphate rock islands in the
Pacific Ocean - the others are Banaba (Ocean Island) in Kiribati and
Makatea in French Polynesia; only 53 km south of Equator


People
Nauru



Population:

13,770 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 35.5% (male 2,492/female 2,393)
15-64 years: 62.5% (male 4,237/female 4,363)
65 years and over: 2.1% (male 148/female 137) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 21.3 years
male: 20.7 years
female: 21.9 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.772% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

24.26 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

6.54 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.97 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 1.08 male(s)/female
total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 9.43 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 11.84 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 6.9 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 63.81 years
male: 60.2 years
female: 67.6 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.94 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Nauruan(s)
adjective: Nauruan


Ethnic groups:

Nauruan 58%, other Pacific Islander 26%, Chinese 8%, European 8%


Religions:

Nauru Congregational 35.4%, Roman Catholic 33.2%, Nauru Independent
Church 10.4%, other 14.1%, none 4.5%, unspecified 2.4% (2002 census)


Languages:

Nauruan (official; a distinct Pacific Island language), English
widely understood, spoken, and used for most government and
commercial purposes


Literacy:

NA


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 8 years
male: 8 years
female: 9 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Nauru



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Nauru
conventional short form: Nauru
local long form: Republic of Nauru
local short form: Nauru
former: Pleasant Island


Government type:

republic


Capital:

no official capital; government offices in Yaren District
time difference: UTC+12 (17 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

14 districts; Aiwo, Anabar, Anetan, Anibare, Baiti, Boe, Buada,
Denigomodu, Ewa, Ijuw, Meneng, Nibok, Uaboe, Yaren


Independence:

31 January 1968 (from the Australia-, NZ-, and UK-administered UN
trusteeship)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 31 January (1968)


Constitution:

29 January 1968; amended 17 May 1968 (Constitution Day)


Legal system:

acts of the Nauru Parliament and British common law; accepts
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations


Suffrage:

20 years of age; universal and compulsory


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Marcus STEPHEN (since 19 December 2007);
note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government
head of government: President Marcus STEPHEN (since 19 December
2007); note - President Ludwig SCOTTY defeated in a no confidence
vote in parliament on 19 December 2007
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president from among the members
of Parliament
elections: president elected by Parliament for a three-year term;
election last held 19 December 2007 (next to be held in 2010)
election results: NA


Legislative branch:

unicameral Parliament (18 seats; members elected by popular vote to
serve three-year terms)
elections: last held 26 April 2008 (next to be held in 2011)
election results: percent of vote - NA; seats - independents 18;
note - President Marcus STEPHEN called a snap election to break a
parliamentary stalemate blocking legislative action


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court


Political parties and leaders:

Democratic Party [Kennan ADEANG]; Nauru Party (informal); Nauru
First (Naoero Amo) Party; note - loose multiparty system


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Woman Information and News Agency (women's issues)


International organization participation:

ACP, ADB, C, FAO, ICAO, ICCt, Interpol, IOC, ITU, OPCW, PIF,
Sparteca, SPC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU, WHO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Marlene I. MOSES
chancery: 800 2nd Avenue, Suite 400 D, New York, NY 10017
telephone: [1] (212) 937-0074
FAX: [1] (212) 937-0079
consulate(s): Agana (Guam)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

the US does not have an embassy in Nauru; the US Ambassador to Fiji
is accredited to Nauru


Flag description:

blue with a narrow, horizontal, yellow stripe across the center and
a large white 12-pointed star below the stripe on the hoist side;
the star indicates the country's location in relation to the Equator
(the yellow stripe) and the 12 points symbolize the 12 original
tribes of Nauru


Economy
Nauru



Economy - overview:

Revenues of this tiny island have traditionally come from exports of
phosphates, now significantly depleted. An Australian company in
2005 entered into an agreement intended to exploit remaining
supplies. Few other resources exist with most necessities being
imported, mainly from Australia, its former occupier and later major
source of support. The rehabilitation of mined land and the
replacement of income from phosphates are serious long-term
problems. In anticipation of the exhaustion of Nauru's phosphate
deposits, substantial amounts of phosphate income were invested in
trust funds to help cushion the transition and provide for Nauru's
economic future. As a result of heavy spending from the trust funds,
the government faces virtual bankruptcy. To cut costs the government
has frozen wages and reduced overstaffed public service departments.
In 2005, the deterioration in housing, hospitals, and other capital
plant continued, and the cost to Australia of keeping the government
and economy afloat continued to climb. Few comprehensive statistics
on the Nauru economy exist, with estimates of Nauru's GDP varying
widely.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$60 million (2005 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$NA


GDP - real growth rate:

NA%


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$5,000 (2005 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: NA%
industry: NA%
services: NA%


Labor force - by occupation:

note: employed in mining phosphates, public administration,
education, and transportation (1992)


Unemployment rate:

90% (2004 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $13.5 million
expenditures: $13.5 million (2005)


Fiscal year:

1 July - 30 June


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

-3.6% (1993)


Agriculture - products:

coconuts


Industries:

phosphate mining, offshore banking, coconut products


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

31 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

28.83 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

1,070 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

1,049 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Exports:

$64,000 f.o.b. (2005 est.)


Exports - commodities:

phosphates


Exports - partners:

South Africa 63.7%, South Korea 7.6%, Canada 6.6% (2006)


Imports:

$20 million c.i.f. (2004 est.)


Imports - commodities:

food, fuel, manufactures, building materials, machinery


Imports - partners:

South Korea 43.8%, Australia 36.2%, US 5.9%, Germany 4.3% (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$20 million mostly from Australia (2005)


Debt - external:

$33.3 million (2002)


Currency (code):

Australian dollar (AUD)


Currency code:

AUD


Exchange rates:

Australian dollars (AUD) per US dollar - 1.2137 (2007), 1.3285
(2006), 1.3095 (2005), 1.3598 (2004), 1.5419 (2003)


Communications
Nauru



Telephones - main lines in use:

1,900 (2002)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

1,500 (2002)


Telephone system:

general assessment: adequate local and international radiotelephone
communication provided via Australian facilities
domestic: NA
international: country code - 674; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 0, shortwave 0 (1998)


Radios:

7,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (1997)


Televisions:

500 (1997)


Internet country code:

.nr


Internet hosts:

42 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

300 (2002)


Transportation
Nauru



Airports:

1 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 24 km
paved: 24 km (2002)


Ports and terminals:

Nauru


Military
Nauru



Military branches:

no regular military forces; Nauru Police Force (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 3,470 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 173
female: 159 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

NA


Military - note:

Nauru maintains no defense forces; under an informal agreement,
defense is the responsibility of Australia


Transnational Issues
Nauru



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Navassa Island

Introduction
Navassa Island



Background:

This uninhabited island was claimed by the US in 1857 for its guano.
Mining took place between 1865 and 1898. The lighthouse, built in
1917, was shut down in 1996 and administration of Navassa Island
transferred from the Coast Guard to the Department of the Interior.
A 1998 scientific expedition to the island described it as a unique
preserve of Caribbean biodiversity; the following year it became a
National Wildlife Refuge and annual scientific expeditions have
continued.


Geography
Navassa Island



Location:

Caribbean, island in the Caribbean Sea, 35 miles west of Tiburon
Peninsula of Haiti


Geographic coordinates:

18 25 N, 75 02 W


Map references:

Central America and the Caribbean


Area:

total: 5.4 sq km
land: 5.4 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

about nine times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

8 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

marine, tropical


Terrain:

raised coral and limestone plateau, flat to undulating; ringed by
vertical white cliffs (9 to 15 m high)


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
highest point: unnamed location on southwest side 77 m


Natural resources:

guano


Land use:

arable land: 0%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 100% (2005)


Natural hazards:

hurricanes


Environment - current issues:

NA


Geography - note:

strategic location 160 km south of the US Naval Base at Guantanamo
Bay, Cuba; mostly exposed rock with numerous solution holes but with
enough grassland to support goat herds; dense stands of fig trees,
scattered cactus


People
Navassa Island



Population:

uninhabited
note: transient Haitian fishermen and others camp on the island


Government
Navassa Island



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Navassa Island


Dependency status:

unorganized, unincorporated territory of the US; administered by the
Fish and Wildlife Service, US Department of the Interior, from the
Caribbean Islands National Wildlife Refuge in Boqueron, Puerto Rico;
in September 1996, the Coast Guard ceased operations and maintenance
of Navassa Island Light, a 46-meter-tall lighthouse on the southern
side of the island; there has also been a private claim advanced
against the island


Legal system:

the laws of the US, where applicable, apply


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (territory of the US)


Flag description:

the flag of the US is used


Economy
Navassa Island



Economy - overview:

Subsistence fishing and commercial trawling occur within refuge
waters.



Transportation
Navassa Island



Ports and terminals:

none; offshore anchorage only


Military
Navassa Island



Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of the US


Transnational Issues
Navassa Island



Disputes - international:

claimed by Haiti, source of subsistence fishing



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Nepal

Introduction
Nepal



Background:

In 1951, the Nepalese monarch ended the century-old system of rule
by hereditary premiers and instituted a cabinet system of
government. Reforms in 1990 established a multiparty democracy
within the framework of a constitutional monarchy. An insurgency led
by Maoist extremists broke out in 1996. The ensuing nine-year civil
war between insurgents and government forces witnessed the
dissolution of the cabinet and parliament and assumption of absolute
power by the king. Several weeks of mass protests in April 2006 were
followed by several months of peace negotiations between the Maoists
and government officials, and culminated in a November 2006 peace
accord and the promulgation of an interim constitution. The newly
formed interim parliament declared Nepal a democratic federal
republic at its first meeting in May 2008, the king vacated the
throne in mid-June 2008, and parliament elected the country's first
president the following month.


Geography
Nepal



Location:

Southern Asia, between China and India


Geographic coordinates:

28 00 N, 84 00 E


Map references:

Asia


Area:

total: 147,181 sq km
land: 143,181 sq km
water: 4,000 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than Arkansas


Land boundaries:

total: 2,926 km
border countries: China 1,236 km, India 1,690 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

varies from cool summers and severe winters in north to subtropical
summers and mild winters in south


Terrain:

Tarai or flat river plain of the Ganges in south, central hill
region, rugged Himalayas in north


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Kanchan Kalan 70 m
highest point: Mount Everest 8,850 m


Natural resources:

quartz, water, timber, hydropower, scenic beauty, small deposits of
lignite, copper, cobalt, iron ore


Land use:

arable land: 16.07%
permanent crops: 0.85%
other: 83.08% (2005)


Irrigated land:

11,700 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

210.2 cu km (1999)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 10.18 cu km/yr (3%/1%/96%)
per capita: 375 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

severe thunderstorms, flooding, landslides, drought, and famine
depending on the timing, intensity, and duration of the summer
monsoons


Environment - current issues:

deforestation (overuse of wood for fuel and lack of alternatives);
contaminated water (with human and animal wastes, agricultural
runoff, and industrial effluents); wildlife conservation; vehicular
emissions


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
Timber 94, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Marine Life Conservation


Geography - note:

landlocked; strategic location between China and India; contains
eight of world's 10 highest peaks, including Mount Everest and
Kanchenjunga - the world's tallest and third tallest - on the
borders with China and India respectively


People
Nepal



Population:

29,519,114 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 38% (male 5,792,042/female 5,427,370)
15-64 years: 58.2% (male 8,832,488/female 8,345,724)
65 years and over: 3.8% (male 542,192/female 579,298) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 20.7 years
male: 20.5 years
female: 20.8 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.095% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

29.92 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

8.97 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.07 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.94 male(s)/female
total population: 1.06 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 62 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 60.18 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 63.91 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 60.94 years
male: 61.12 years
female: 60.75 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

3.91 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.5% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

61,000 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

3,100 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: intermediate
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever
vectorborne disease: Japanese encephalitis and malaria (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Nepalese (singular and plural)
adjective: Nepalese


Ethnic groups:

Chhettri 15.5%, Brahman-Hill 12.5%, Magar 7%, Tharu 6.6%, Tamang
5.5%, Newar 5.4%, Muslim 4.2%, Kami 3.9%, Yadav 3.9%, other 32.7%,
unspecified 2.8% (2001 census)


Religions:

Hindu 80.6%, Buddhist 10.7%, Muslim 4.2%, Kirant 3.6%, other 0.9%
(2001 census)
note: only official Hindu state in the world


Languages:

Nepali 47.8%, Maithali 12.1%, Bhojpuri 7.4%, Tharu (Dagaura/Rana)
5.8%, Tamang 5.1%, Newar 3.6%, Magar 3.3%, Awadhi 2.4%, other 10%,
unspecified 2.5% (2001 census)
note: many in government and business also speak English (2001 est.)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 48.6%
male: 62.7%
female: 34.9% (2001 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 9 years
male: 10 years
female: 8 years (2003)


Education expenditures:

3.4% of GDP (2003)


Government
Nepal



Country name:

conventional long form: Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal
conventional short form: Nepal
local long form: Sanghiya Loktantrik Ganatantra Nepal
local short form: Nepal


Government type:

democratic republic


Capital:

name: Kathmandu
geographic coordinates: 27 43 N, 85 19 E
time difference: UTC+5.75 (10.75 hours ahead of Washington, DC
during Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

14 zones (anchal, singular and plural); Bagmati, Bheri, Dhawalagiri,
Gandaki, Janakpur, Karnali, Kosi, Lumbini, Mahakali, Mechi,
Narayani, Rapti, Sagarmatha, Seti


Independence:

1768 (unified by Prithvi Narayan SHAH)


National holiday:

NA; note - in 2006, Parliament abolished the birthday of King
GYANENDRA (7 July) and Constitution Day (9 November) as national
holidays


Constitution:

9 November 1990; note - a new interim constitution was promulgated
in January 2007; the November 2006 peace agreement calls for the
election of a Constituent Assembly to draft a new permanent
constitution


Legal system:

based on Hindu legal concepts and English common law; has not
accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Ram Baran YADAV (as of 23 July 2008); Vice
President Paramananda JHA (as of 23 July 2008)
head of government: Prime Minister Pushpa Kamal DAHAL (as of 18
August 2008); Deputy Prime Minister Bamdev GAUTAM
cabinet: selected by the prime minister
elections: president elected by Parliament; term NA; election last
held 21 July 2008
election results: Ram Baran YADAV elected president by the
Constituent Assembly in a second round of voting on 21 July 2008;
Ram Baran YADAV 308, Ram Jaja Prasad SINGH 282


Legislative branch:

unicameral Constituent Assembly (601 seats; 240 seats decided by
direct popular vote; 335 seats by proportional representation; 26
appointed by the Cabinet (Council of Ministers))
note: KOIRALA called the first sitting of the Constituent Assembly
on 28 May 2008
elections: last held 10 April 2008 (next to be held NA)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
CPN-M 220, NC 110, CPN-UML 103, Madhesi Jana Adhikar Forum 52, Terai
Madhesi Democratic Party/Nepal Sadbhawana Party 29, other smaller
parties 61; note - 26 seats to be filled by the new Cabinet


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court or Sarbochha Adalat (chief justice is appointed by the
monarch on recommendation of the Constitutional Council; the other
judges are appointed by the monarch on the recommendation of the
Judicial Council)


Political parties and leaders:

Chure Bhawar Rastriya Ekata Party [Keshav Prasad MAINALI]; Communist
Party of Nepal (Maoist) [Pushpa Kamal DAHAL, also known as
PRACHANDA, chairman; Dr. Baburam BHATTARAI]; Communist Party of
Nepal (ML) [C.P. MAINALI]; Communist Party of Nepal (Unified) [Raj
Singh SHRIS]; Communist Party of Nepal (United) [Ganesh SHAH];
Communist Party of Nepal/United Marxist-Leninist or CPN/UML [Amrit
Kumar BOHARA]; Dalit Janajati Party [Vishwendraman PASHWAN];
Janamorcha Nepal [Amik SHERCHAN]; Madhesi Jana Adhikar Forum
[Upendra YADAV]; National Democratic Party or NDP [Pashupati
Shumsher RANA] (also called Rastriya Prajatantra Party or RPP);
Nepal Loktantrik Samajbadi Dal [Upendra GACHCHHADAR]; Nepal Pariwar
Dal [Vinod DANGI]; Nepal Rastriya Party [Khushilal YADAV]; Nepal
Sadbhavana Party (Anandi Devi) [Shyam Sundar GUPTA]; Nepal Workers
and Peasants Party or NWPP [Narayan Man BIJUKCHHE]; Nepali Congress
Party or NCP [Girija Prasad KOIRALA]; Nepali Janata Dal [Bharat
Prasad MAHATO]; Rastriya Janamorcha [Chitra BAHADUR K.C.]; Rastriya
Janamukti Party [Malwar Singh THAPA]; Rastriya Janashakti Party or
RJP [Surya Bahadur THAPA] (split from RPP in March 2005); Rastriya
Prajatantra Party Nepal [Kamal THAPA]; Sadbhavana Party (Mahato)
[Rajendra MAHATO]; Samajbadi Prajatantrik Janata Party Nepal [Prem
Bahadur SINGH]; Sanghiya Loktantrik Rastriya Manch [Kamal
CHHARAHANG]; Terai Madhesi Democratic Party [Mahantha THAKUR]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

other: several small armed Madhesi groups along the southern border
with India; a variety of groups advocating regional autonomy for
individual ethnic groups


International organization participation:

ADB, BIMSTEC, CP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent),
ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURCAT, MINUSTAH, MONUC, NAM, OPCW, SAARC,
SACEP, UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNMIL, UNMIS,
UNMIT, UNOCI, UNOMIG, UNTSO, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Suresh Chandra CHALISE
chancery: 2131 Leroy Place NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 667-4550
FAX: [1] (202) 667-5534
consulate(s) general:
New York:


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Nancy J. POWELL
embassy: Maharajgunj, Kathmandu
mailing address: use embassy street address
telephone: [977] (1) 400-7200
FAX: [977] (1) 400-7272


Flag description:

red with a blue border around the unique shape of two overlapping
right triangles; the smaller, upper triangle bears a white stylized
moon and the larger, lower triangle bears a white 12-pointed sun


Economy
Nepal



Economy - overview:

Nepal is among the poorest and least developed countries in the
world with almost one-third of its population living below the
poverty line. Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy, providing
a livelihood for three-fourths of the population and accounting for
38% of GDP. Industrial activity mainly involves the processing of
agricultural produce including jute, sugarcane, tobacco, and grain.
Security concerns relating to the Maoist conflict have led to a
decrease in tourism, a key source of foreign exchange. Nepal has
considerable scope for exploiting its potential in hydropower and
tourism, areas of recent foreign investment interest. Prospects for
foreign trade or investment in other sectors will remain poor,
however, because of the small size of the economy, its technological
backwardness, its remoteness, its landlocked geographic location,
its civil strife, and its susceptibility to natural disaster.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$29.29 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$9.627 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

3.2% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$1,000 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 38%
industry: 20%
services: 42% (FY05/06 est.)


Labor force:

11.11 million
note: severe lack of skilled labor (2006 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 76%
industry: 6%
services: 18% (2004 est.)


Unemployment rate:

42% (2004 est.)


Population below poverty line:

30.9% (2004)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.6%
highest 10%: 40.6% (2004)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

47.2 (2004)


Budget:

revenues: $1.153 billion
expenditures: $1.927 billion (FY06/07)


Fiscal year:

16 July - 15 July


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

6.4% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

6.25% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

8% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$2.184 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$4.745 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$5.636 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

rice, corn, wheat, sugarcane, jute, root crops; milk, water buffalo
meat


Industries:

tourism, carpets, textiles; small rice, jute, sugar, and oilseed
mills; cigarettes, cement and brick production


Industrial production growth rate:

2.2% (FY05/06)


Electricity - production:

2.703 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

2.276 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

165 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

380 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 8.5%
hydro: 91.5%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

16,960 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

11,530 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

$58 million (2007)


Exports:

$830 million f.o.b.; note - does not include unrecorded border trade
with India (2006)


Exports - commodities:

carpets, clothing, leather goods, jute goods, grain


Exports - partners:

India 69.3%, US 8.8%, Germany 4.1% (2007)


Imports:

$2.398 billion f.o.b. (2006)


Imports - commodities:

gold, machinery and equipment, petroleum products, fertilizer


Imports - partners:

India 58.9%, China 13.6%, Japan 1.6% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$427.9 million (2005)


Debt - external:

$3.07 billion (March 2006)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$NA


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$963.5 million (2005)


Currency (code):

Nepalese rupee (NPR)


Currency code:

NPR


Exchange rates:

Nepalese rupees (NPR) per US dollar - NA (2007), 72.446 (2006),
72.16 (2005), 73.674 (2004), 76.141 (2003)


Communications
Nepal



Telephones - main lines in use:

766,400 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

1.157 million (2006)


Telephone system:

general assessment: poor telephone and telegraph service; fair
radiotelephone communication service and mobile-cellular telephone
network
domestic: NA
international: country code - 977; radiotelephone communications;
microwave landline to India; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat
(Indian Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 6, FM 5, shortwave 1 (2000)


Radios:

840,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (plus 9 repeaters) (1998)


Televisions:

130,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.np


Internet hosts:

42,219 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

6 (2000)


Internet users:

337,100 (2007)


Transportation
Nepal



Airports:

47 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 10
over 3,047 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 8
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 37
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 6
under 914 m: 30 (2007)


Railways:

total: 59 km
narrow gauge: 59 km 0.762-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 17,280 km
paved: 9,829 km
unpaved: 7,451 km (2004)


Military
Nepal



Military branches:

Nepalese Army, Armed Police Force (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service; 15 years of age for
military training; no conscription (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 7,322,965
females age 16-49: 6,859,064 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 5,146,958
females age 16-49: 4,724,495 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 335,747
female: 312,297 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.6% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Nepal



Disputes - international:

joint border commission continues to work on contested sections of
boundary with India, including the 400 square kilometer dispute over
the source of the Kalapani River; India has instituted a stricter
border regime to restrict transit of Maoist insurgents and illegal
cross-border activities; approximately 106,000 Bhutanese Lhotshampas
(Hindus) have been confined in refugee camps in southeastern Nepal
since 1990


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 107,803 (Bhutan); 20,153 (Tibet/China)
IDPs: 50,000-70,000 (remaining from ten-year Maoist insurgency that
officially ended in 2006; displacement spread across the country)
(2007)


Illicit drugs:

illicit producer of cannabis and hashish for the domestic and
international drug markets; transit point for opiates from Southeast
Asia to the West



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Netherlands

Introduction
Netherlands



Background:

The Dutch United Provinces declared their independence from Spain in
1579; during the 17th century, they became a leading seafaring and
commercial power, with settlements and colonies around the world.
After a 20-year French occupation, a Kingdom of the Netherlands was
formed in 1815. In 1830 Belgium seceded and formed a separate
kingdom. The Netherlands remained neutral in World War I, but
suffered invasion and occupation by Germany in World War II. A
modern, industrialized nation, the Netherlands is also a large
exporter of agricultural products. The country was a founding member
of NATO and the EEC (now the EU), and participated in the
introduction of the euro in 1999.


Geography
Netherlands



Location:

Western Europe, bordering the North Sea, between Belgium and Germany


Geographic coordinates:

52 30 N, 5 45 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 41,526 sq km
land: 33,883 sq km
water: 7,643 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly less than twice the size of New Jersey


Land boundaries:

total: 1,027 km
border countries: Belgium 450 km, Germany 577 km


Coastline:

451 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm


Climate:

temperate; marine; cool summers and mild winters


Terrain:

mostly coastal lowland and reclaimed land (polders); some hills in
southeast


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Zuidplaspolder -7 m
highest point: Vaalserberg 322 m


Natural resources:

natural gas, petroleum, peat, limestone, salt, sand and gravel,
arable land


Land use:

arable land: 21.96%
permanent crops: 0.77%
other: 77.27% (2005)


Irrigated land:

5,650 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

89.7 cu km (2005)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 8.86 cu km/yr (6%/60%/34%)
per capita: 544 cu m/yr (2001)


Natural hazards:

flooding


Environment - current issues:

water pollution in the form of heavy metals, organic compounds, and
nutrients such as nitrates and phosphates; air pollution from
vehicles and refining activities; acid rain


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Kyoto Protocol, Law of the Sea,
Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection,
Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands,
Whaling


Geography - note:

located at mouths of three major European rivers (Rhine, Maas or
Meuse, and Schelde)


People
Netherlands



Population:

16,645,313 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 17.6% (male 1,496,348/female 1,427,297)
15-64 years: 67.8% (male 5,705,003/female 5,583,787)
65 years and over: 14.6% (male 1,040,932/female 1,391,946) (2008
est.)


Median age:

total: 40 years
male: 39.2 years
female: 40.9 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.436% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

10.53 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

8.71 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

2.55 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.75 male(s)/female
total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 4.81 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 5.34 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 4.25 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 79.25 years
male: 76.66 years
female: 81.98 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.66 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.2% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

19,000 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 100 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Dutchman(men), Dutchwoman(women)
adjective: Dutch


Ethnic groups:

Dutch 80.7%, EU 5%, Indonesian 2.4%, Turkish 2.2%, Surinamese 2%,
Moroccan 2%, Netherlands Antilles & Aruba 0.8%, other 4.8% (2008
est.)


Religions:

Roman Catholic 30%, Dutch Reformed 11%, Calvinist 6%, other
Protestant 3%, Muslim 5.8%, other 2.2%, none 42% (2006)


Languages:

Dutch (official), Frisian (official)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99%
male: 99%
female: 99% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 16 years
male: 17 years
female: 16 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

5.3% of GDP (2005)


Government
Netherlands



Country name:

conventional long form: Kingdom of the Netherlands
conventional short form: Netherlands
local long form: Koninkrijk der Nederlanden
local short form: Nederland


Government type:

constitutional monarchy


Capital:

name: Amsterdam
geographic coordinates: 52 23 N, 4 54 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October
note: The Hague is the seat of government; time descriptions apply
to the continental Netherlands only, not to the Caribbean components


Administrative divisions:

12 provinces (provincies, singular - provincie); Drenthe, Flevoland,
Friesland (Fryslan), Gelderland, Groningen, Limburg, Noord-Brabant
(North Brabant), Noord-Holland (North Holland), Overijssel, Utrecht,
Zeeland (Zealand), Zuid-Holland (South Holland)


Dependent areas:

Aruba, Netherlands Antilles


Independence:

23 January 1579 (the northern provinces of the Low Countries
conclude the Union of Utrecht breaking with Spain; on 26 July 1581
they formally declared their independence with an Act of Abjuration;
however, it was not until 30 January 1648 and the Peace of
Westphalia that Spain recognized this independence)


National holiday:

Queen's Day (Birthday of Queen-Mother JULIANA and accession to the
throne of her oldest daughter BEATRIX), 30 April (1909 and 1980)


Constitution:

adopted 1815; amended many times, most recently in 2002


Legal system:

based on civil law system incorporating French penal theory;
constitution does not permit judicial review of acts of the States
General; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen BEATRIX (since 30 April 1980); Heir Apparent
WILLEM-ALEXANDER (born 27 April 1967), son of the monarch
head of government: Prime Minister Jan Peter BALKENENDE (since 22
July 2002); Deputy Prime Ministers Wouter BOS (since 22 February
2007) and Andre ROUVOET (since 22 February 2007)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the monarch
elections: the monarchy is hereditary; following Second Chamber
elections, the leader of the majority party or leader of a majority
coalition is usually appointed prime minister by the monarch; deputy
prime ministers appointed by the monarch
note: there is also a Council of State composed of the monarch, heir
apparent, and councilors that provides consultations to the cabinet
on legislative and administrative policy


Legislative branch:

bicameral States General or Staten Generaal consists of the First
Chamber or Eerste Kamer (75 seats; members indirectly elected by the
country's 12 provincial councils to serve four-year terms) and the
Second Chamber or Tweede Kamer (150 seats; members directly elected
by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
elections: First Chamber - last held 29 May 2007 (next to be held in
May 2011); Second Chamber - last held 22 November 2006 (next to be
held by early 2011)
election results: First Chamber - percent of vote by party - NA%;
seats by party - CDA 21, PvdA 14, VVD 14, Socialist Party 11,
Christian Union 4, Green Left Party 4, D66 2, other 5; Second
Chamber - percent of vote by party - CDA 26.5%, PvdA 21.2%,
Socialist Party 16.6%, VVD 14.6%, Party for Freedom 5.9%, Green
Party 4.6%, Christian Union 4.0%, other 6.6%; seats by party - CDA
41, PvdA 33, Socialist Party 25, VVD 22, Party for Freedom 9, Green
Party 7, Christian Union 6, other 7


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court or Hoge Raad (justices are nominated for life by the
monarch)


Political parties and leaders:

Christian Democratic Appeal or CDA [Jan Peter BALKENENDE]; Christian
Union Party [Andre ROUVOET]; Democrats 66 or D66 [Alexander
PECHTOLD]; Green Left Party [Femke HALSEMA]; Labor Party or PvdA
[Wouter BOS]; Party for Freedom or PVV [Geert WILDERS]; Party for
the Animals or PvdD [Marianne THIEME]; People's Party for Freedom
and Democracy (Liberal) or VVD [Mark RUTTE]; Reformed Political
Party of SGP [Bas VAN DER VLIES]; Socialist Party [Jan MARIJNISSEN];
plus a few minor parties


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Christian Trade Union Federation or CNV [Rene PAAS]; Confederation
of Netherlands Industry and Employers or VNO-NCW [Bernard WIENTJES];
Federation for Small and Medium-sized businesses or MKB [Loek
HERMANS]; Netherlands Trade Union Federation or FNV [Agnes
JONGERIUS]; Social Economic Council or SER [Alexander RINNOOY Kan];
Trade Union Federation of Middle and High Personnel or MHP [Ad
VERHOEVEN]


International organization participation:

ADB (nonregional members), AfDB (nonregional members), Arctic
Council (observer), Australia Group, Benelux, BIS, CBSS (observer),
CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EMU, ESA, EU, FAO, G-10, IADB, IAEA,
IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO,
IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA,
NAM (guest), NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, Paris
Club, PCA, Schengen Convention, SECI (observer), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIS, UNRWA, UNTSO, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WEU, WFTU,
WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Regina "Renee" JONES-BOS
chancery: 4200 Linnean Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 244-5300, [1] 877-388-2443
FAX: [1] (202) 362-3430
consulate(s) general: Chicago, Los Angeles, Miami, New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador James B. CULBERTSON
embassy: Lange Voorhout 102, 2514 EJ, The Hague
mailing address: PSC 71, Box 1000, APO AE 09715
telephone: [31] (70) 310-2209
FAX: [31] (70) 361-4688
consulate(s) general: Amsterdam


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and blue; similar
to the flag of Luxembourg, which uses a lighter blue and is longer;
one of the oldest flags in constant use, originating with WILLIAM I,
Prince of Orange, in the latter half of the 16th century


Economy
Netherlands



Economy - overview:

The Netherlands has a prosperous and open economy, which depends
heavily on foreign trade. The economy is noted for stable industrial
relations, moderate unemployment and inflation, a sizable current
account surplus, and an important role as a European transportation
hub. Industrial activity is predominantly in food processing,
chemicals, petroleum refining, and electrical machinery. A highly
mechanized agricultural sector employs no more than 3% of the labor
force but provides large surpluses for the food-processing industry
and for exports. The Netherlands, along with 11 of its EU partners,
began circulating the euro currency on 1 January 2002. The country
continues to be one of the leading European nations for attracting
foreign direct investment and is one of the five largest investors
in the US. The economy experienced a slowdown in 2005 but in 2006
recovered to the fastest pace in six years on the back of increased
exports and strong investment. The pace of job growth reached
10-year highs in 2007.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$645.5 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$768.7 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

3.5% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$39,000 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 2%
industry: 24.4%
services: 73.6% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

7.604 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 3%
industry: 21%
services: 76% (2005 est.)


Unemployment rate:

4.6% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

10.5% (2005)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.5%
highest 10%: 22.9% (1999)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

30.9 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

20% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $359.5 billion
expenditures: $356.5 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

45.5% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

1.6% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

NA (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

8.72% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

NA
note: see entry for the European Union for money supply in the Euro
Area; the European Central Bank (ECB) controls monetary policy for
the 15 members of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU); individual
members of the EMU do not control the quantity of money and quasi
money circulating within their own borders


Stock of quasi money:

NA (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$1.876 trillion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

grains, potatoes, sugar beets, fruits, vegetables; livestock


Industries:

agroindustries, metal and engineering products, electrical machinery
and equipment, chemicals, petroleum, construction, microelectronics,
fishing


Industrial production growth rate:

3.1% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

97.33 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

109.6 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

5.565 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

23.14 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 89.9%
hydro: 0.1%
nuclear: 4.3%
other: 5.7% (2001)


Oil - production:

88,950 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

984,200 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

1.639 million bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

2.648 million bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

100 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

76.33 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

46.42 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

55.66 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

25.73 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

1.416 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$47.31 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$456.8 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, chemicals, fuels; foodstuffs


Exports - partners:

Germany 24.4%, Belgium 13.6%, UK 9.1%, France 8.5%, Italy 5.1%, US
4.3% (2007)


Imports:

$406.3 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and transport equipment, chemicals, fuels, foodstuffs,
clothing


Imports - partners:

Germany 17.7%, China 10.5%, Belgium 9.3%, US 7.3%, UK 5.8%, Russia
5.1%, France 4.4% (2007)


Economic aid - donor:

ODA, $5.452 billion (2006)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$26.98 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$2.277 trillion (30 June 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$673.4 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$851.3 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$924.4 billion (November 2007)


Currency (code):

euro (EUR)


Currency code:

EUR


Exchange rates:

euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006), 0.8041
(2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)


Communications
Netherlands



Telephones - main lines in use:

7.334 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

17.3 million (2006)


Telephone system:

general assessment: highly developed and well maintained
domestic: extensive fixed-line fiber-optic network; large cellular
telephone system with 5 major operators utilizing the third
generation of the Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM)
technology
international: country code - 31; submarine cables provide links to
the US and Europe; satellite earth stations - 5 (3 Intelsat - 1
Indian Ocean and 2 Atlantic Ocean, 1 Eutelsat, and 1 Inmarsat (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 4, FM 246, shortwave 3 (2004)


Radios:

15.3 million (1996)


Television broadcast stations:

21 (plus 26 repeaters) (1995)


Televisions:

8.1 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.nl


Internet hosts:

10.983 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

52 (2000)


Internet users:

15 million (2007)


Transportation
Netherlands



Airports:

27 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 20
over 3,047 m: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 9
1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
914 to 1,523 m: 4
under 914 m: 2 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 7
914 to 1,523 m: 3
under 914 m: 4 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Pipelines:

condensate 81 km; gas 7,394 km; oil 578 km; refined products 716 km
(2007)


Railways:

total: 2,797 km
standard gauge: 2,797 km 1.435-m gauge (2,064 km electrified) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 134,981 km (includes 2,604 km of expressways) (2006)


Waterways:

6,211 km (navigable for ships of 50 tons) (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 622
by type: bulk carrier 9, cargo 381, carrier 19, chemical tanker 44,
container 76, liquefied gas 15, passenger 16, passenger/cargo 15,
petroleum tanker 11, refrigerated cargo 10, roll on/roll off 23,
specialized tanker 3
foreign-owned: 203 (Belgium 2, Cyprus 8, Denmark 29, Finland 14,
France 1, Germany 75, Ireland 10, Italy 1, South Korea 1, Norway 12,
Sweden 28, Turkey 1, UAE 5, UK 2, US 14)
registered in other countries: 178 (Antigua and Barbuda 20,
Australia 2, Austria 2, Bahamas 9, Cambodia 1, Canada 1, Cyprus 22,
Germany 1, Gibraltar 21, Isle of Man 1, Liberia 6, Luxembourg 2,
Marshall Islands 8, Netherlands Antilles 38, Panama 14, Paraguay 1,
Philippines 23, Portugal 1, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 3, US
1, unknown 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Amsterdam, IJmuiden, Rotterdam, Terneuzen, Vlissingen


Military
Netherlands



Military branches:

Royal Netherlands Army, Royal Netherlands Navy (includes Naval Air
Service and Marine Corps), Royal Netherlands Air Force (Koninklijke
Luchtmacht, KLu), Royal Military Police (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

20 years of age for an all-volunteer force (2004)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 3,950,825
females age 16-49: 3,850,800 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 3,233,773
females age 16-49: 3,150,790 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 105,735
female: 100,747 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.6% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Netherlands



Disputes - international:

none


Illicit drugs:

major European producer of synthetic drugs, including ecstasy, and
cannabis cultivator; important gateway for cocaine, heroin, and
hashish entering Europe; major source of US-bound ecstasy; large
financial sector vulnerable to money laundering; significant
consumer of ecstasy



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Netherlands Antilles

Introduction
Netherlands Antilles



Background:

Once the center of the Caribbean slave trade, the island of Curacao
was hard hit by the abolition of slavery in 1863. Its prosperity
(and that of neighboring Aruba) was restored in the early 20th
century with the construction of oil refineries to service the newly
discovered Venezuelan oil fields. The island of Saint Martin is
shared with France; its southern portion is named Sint Maarten and
is part of the Netherlands Antilles; its northern portion, called
Saint Martin, is an overseas collectivity of France.


Geography
Netherlands Antilles



Location:

Caribbean, two island groups in the Caribbean Sea - composed of five
islands, Curacao and Bonaire located off the coast of Venezuela, and
Sint Maarten, Saba, and Sint Eustatius lie east of the US Virgin
Islands


Geographic coordinates:

Bonaire: 12 12 N, 68 15 W
Curacao: 12 10 N, 69 00 W
Saba: 17 38 N, 63 14 W
Sint Eustatius: 17 30 N, 62 58 W
Sint Maarten: 18 04 N, 63 04 W


Map references:

Central America and the Caribbean


Area:

total: 960 sq km
land: 960 sq km
water: 0 sq km
note: includes Bonaire, Curacao, Saba, Sint Eustatius, and Sint
Maarten (Dutch part of the island of Saint Martin)


Area - comparative:

more than five times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

total: 15 km
border countries: Saint Martin 15 km


Coastline:

364 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive fishing zone: 12 nm


Climate:

tropical; ameliorated by northeast trade winds


Terrain:

generally hilly, volcanic interiors


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
highest point: Mount Scenery 862 m


Natural resources:

phosphates (Curacao only), salt (Bonaire only)


Land use:

arable land: 10%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 90% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

Sint Maarten, Saba, and Sint Eustatius are subject to hurricanes
from July to October; Curacao and Bonaire are south of Caribbean
hurricane belt and are rarely threatened


Environment - current issues:

NA


Geography - note:

the five islands of the Netherlands Antilles are divided
geographically into the Leeward Islands (northern) group (Saba, Sint
Eustatius, and Sint Maarten) and the Windward Islands (southern)
group (Bonaire and Curacao); the island of Saint Martin is the
smallest landmass in the world shared by two independent states, the
French territory of Saint Martin and the Dutch territory of Sint
Maarten


People
Netherlands Antilles



Population:

225,369 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 23.2% (male 26,749/female 25,467)
15-64 years: 67.5% (male 73,319/female 78,842)
65 years and over: 9.3% (male 8,541/female 12,451) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 33.4 years
male: 31.6 years
female: 35.2 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.754% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

14.37 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

6.43 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-0.39 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.93 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.69 male(s)/female
total population: 0.93 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 9.36 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 10.04 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 8.64 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 76.45 years
male: 74.15 years
female: 78.87 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.98 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Dutch Antillean(s)
adjective: Dutch Antillean


Ethnic groups:

mixed black 85%, other 15% (includes Carib Amerindian, white, East
Asian)


Religions:

Roman Catholic 72%, Pentecostal 4.9%, Protestant 3.5%, Seventh-Day
Adventist 3.1%, Methodist 2.9%, Jehovah's Witnesses 1.7%, other
Christian 4.2%, Jewish 1.3%, other or unspecified 1.2%, none 5.2%
(2001 census)


Languages:

Papiamento 65.4% (a Spanish-Portuguese-Dutch-English dialect),
English 15.9% (widely spoken), Dutch 7.3% (official), Spanish 6.1%,
Creole 1.6%, other 1.9%, unspecified 1.8% (2001 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 96.7%
male: 96.7%
female: 96.8% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 14 years
male: 14 years
female: 15 years (2002)


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Netherlands Antilles



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Netherlands Antilles
local long form: none
local short form: Nederlandse Antillen
former: Curacao and Dependencies


Dependency status:

an autonomous country within the Kingdom of the Netherlands; full
autonomy in internal affairs granted in 1954; Dutch Government
responsible for defense and foreign affairs


Government type:

parliamentary


Capital:

name: Willemstad (on Curacao)
geographic coordinates: 12 06 N, 68 56 W
time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

none (part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands)
note: each island has its own government


Independence:

none (part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands)


National holiday:

Queen's Day (Birthday of Queen-Mother JULIANA and accession to the
throne of her oldest daughter BEATRIX), 30 April (1909 and 1980)


Constitution:

29 December 1954, Statute of the Realm of the Netherlands, as amended


Legal system:

based on Dutch civil law system with some English common law
influence


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen BEATRIX of the Netherlands (since 30 April
1980); represented by Governor General Frits GOEDGEDRAG (since 1
July 2002)
head of government: Prime Minister Emily de JONGH-ELHAGE (since 26
March 2006)
cabinet: Council of Ministers elected by the Staten (legislature)
elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor general appointed by
the monarch for a six-year term; following legislative elections,
the leader of the majority party is usually elected prime minister
by the Staten; election last held 27 January 2006 (next to be held
by 2010)
note: government coalition - PAR, PNP, DP-St. M, UPB, WIPM Saba,
DP-St. E


Legislative branch:

unicameral States or Staten (22 seats, Curacao 14, Bonaire 3, St.
Maarten 3, St. Eustatius 1, Saba 1; members are elected by popular
vote to serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 27 January 2006 (next to be held in 2010)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
PAR 5, MAN 3, FOL 2, Forsa Korsou 2, National Alliance 2, PNP 2, UPB
2, DP-St. E 1, DP-St. M 1, PDB 1, WIPM 1
note: the government is a coalition of several parties


Judicial branch:

Joint High Court of Justice (judges appointed by the monarch)


Political parties and leaders:

Bonaire: Democratic Party of Bonaire or PDB [Jopi ABRAHAM];
Patriotic Union of Bonaire or UPB [Ramonsito BOOI]
Curacao: Ban Vota [Norbert GEORGE]; C-93 [Stanley BROWN]; Democratic
Party of Curacao or DP [Errol HERNANDEZ]; E Mayoria [Aurelio PEDRO];
Forsa Korsou [Nelson NAVARRO]; Liste Ni'un Paso Atras [Nelson
PIERRE]; Movemiento Patriotiko Korsou [Reginald LAK]; New Antilles
Movement or MAN [Charles COOPER]; Partido Akshon Pa Prosperidat I
Seguridat [Sonja BERKEMEYER]; Partido Laboral Krusada Popular or
PLKP [Errol COVA]; Party for the Restructured Antilles or PAR [Emily
de JONGH-ELHAGE]; People's National Party or PNP [Ersilia DE
LANNOOY]; Pidjin [Jasmin PINEDO]; Pueblo Soberano [Herman WIELS];
Workers' Liberation Front or FOL [Anthony GODETT]
Saba: Saba Labor Party [Akilah LEVENSTONE]; Windward Islands
People's Movement or WIPM [Ray HASSELL]
Sint Eustatius: Democratic Party of Sint Eustatius or DP-St. E
[Julian WOODLEY]; Progressive Labor Party [Clyde VAN PUTTEN]; St.
Eustatius Alliance [Ingrid HOUTMAN-WHITFIELD]
Sint Maarten: Democratic Party of Sint Maarten or DP-St. M [Sarah
WESCOTT-WILLIAMS]; Freedom Slate of National Democratic Party
[Theophilus PRIEST]; National Alliance or NA [William MARLIN];
People's Progressive Alliance or PPA [Gracita ARRINDELL]; St.
Maarten People's Party [Johan LEONARD]; United People's Labor Party
[Bienvenido RICHARDSON]
note: political parties are indigenous to each island


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Employers Association (VBC); Unions (AVBO)


International organization participation:

Caricom (observer), ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC, UNESCO (associate),
UNWTO (associate), UPU, WCL, WCO, WMO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (represented by the Kingdom of the Netherlands); note - Mr.
Jeffrey CORRION, Minister Plenipotentiary for Aruba at the Embassy
of the Kingdom of the Netherlands


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Consul General Robert E. SORENSON
consulate(s) general: J. B. Gorsiraweg #1, Willemstad, Curacao
mailing address: P. O. Box 158, Willemstad, Curacao
telephone: [599] (9) 461-3066
FAX: [599] (9) 461-6489


Flag description:

white, with a horizontal blue stripe in the center superimposed on a
vertical red band, also centered; five white, five-pointed stars are
arranged in an oval pattern in the center of the blue band; the five
stars represent the five main islands of Bonaire, Curacao, Saba,
Sint Eustatius, and Sint Maarten


Economy
Netherlands Antilles



Economy - overview:

Tourism, petroleum refining, and offshore finance are the mainstays
of this small economy, which is closely tied to the outside world.
Although GDP has declined or grown slightly in each of the past
eight years, the islands enjoy a high per capita income and a
well-developed infrastructure compared with other countries in the
region. Most of the oil Netherlands Antilles imports for its
refineries come from Venezuela. Almost all consumer and capital
goods are imported, the US, Italy, and Mexico being the major
suppliers. Poor soils and inadequate water supplies hamper the
development of agriculture. Budgetary problems hamper reform of the
health and pension systems of an aging population. The Netherlands
provides financial aid to support the economy.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$2.8 billion (2004 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$NA


GDP - real growth rate:

1% (2004 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$16,000 (2004 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 1%
industry: 15%
services: 84% (2000 est.)


Labor force:

83,600 (2005)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 1%
industry: 20%
services: 79% (2005 est.)


Unemployment rate:

17% (2002 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $757.9 million
expenditures: $949.5 million (2004)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.1% (2003 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

NA (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

9.21% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$1.133 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$2.309 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$2.927 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

aloes, sorghum, peanuts, vegetables, tropical fruit


Industries:

tourism (Curacao, Sint Maarten, and Bonaire), petroleum refining
(Curacao), petroleum transshipment facilities (Curacao and Bonaire),
light manufacturing (Curacao)


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

1.195 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

992 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - consumption:

67,450 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

206,900 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

277,600 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Exports:

$3.71 billion f.o.b. (2006)


Exports - commodities:

petroleum products


Exports - partners:

US 18.9%, Mexico 13.3%, Panama 11.4%, Singapore 6.9%, Haiti 6.6%,
Bahamas, The 5.3% (2007)


Imports:

$15.74 billion f.o.b. (2006)


Imports - commodities:

crude petroleum, food, manufactures


Imports - partners:

Venezuela 59.1%, US 17.7%, Brazil 7.1% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$21.32 million (2004)


Debt - external:

$2.68 billion (2004)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$NA


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$488.6 billion (2003)


Currency (code):

Netherlands Antillean guilder (ANG)


Currency code:

ANG


Exchange rates:

Netherlands Antillean guilders (ANG) per US dollar - NA (2007), 1.79
(2006), 1.79 (2005), 1.79 (2004), 1.79 (2003)


Communications
Netherlands Antilles



Telephones - main lines in use:

81,000 (2001)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

200,000 (2004)


Telephone system:

general assessment: generally adequate facilities
domestic: extensive interisland microwave radio relay links
international: country code - 599; the Americas Region Caribbean
Ring System (ARCOS-1) and the Americas-2 submarine cable systems
provide connectivity to Central America, parts of South America and
the Caribbean, and the US; satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat
(Atlantic Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 8, FM 19, shortwave 0 (2003)


Radios:

217,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

3 (there is also a cable service that supplies programs received
from various US satellite networks and 4 Venezuelan channels) (2003)


Televisions:

69,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.an


Internet hosts:

47,597 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

6


Internet users:

2,000 (2000)


Transportation
Netherlands Antilles



Airports:

5 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 5
over 3,047 m: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 845


Merchant marine:

total: 147
by type: barge carrier 2, bulk carrier 2, cargo 72, carrier 19,
chemical tanker 2, container 8, liquefied gas 1, passenger 2,
petroleum tanker 3, refrigerated cargo 27, roll on/roll off 6,
specialized tanker 3
foreign-owned: 123 (Belgium 1, Cuba 1, Cyprus 21, Denmark 2, Germany
43, Hong Kong 2, Netherlands 38, Norway 3, Sweden 1, Turkey 10, US
1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Bopec Terminal, Willemstad


Military
Netherlands Antilles



Military branches:

no regular military forces; National Guard (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

16 years of age for National Guard recruitment; no conscription
(2004)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 55,365
females age 16-49: 57,060 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 46,102
females age 16-49: 47,219 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 1,855
female: 1,760 (2008 est.)


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of the Kingdom of the Netherlands


Transnational Issues
Netherlands Antilles



Disputes - international:

none


Illicit drugs:

transshipment point for South American drugs bound for the US and
Europe; money-laundering center



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@New Caledonia

Introduction
New Caledonia



Background:

Settled by both Britain and France during the first half of the 19th
century, the island was made a French possession in 1853. It served
as a penal colony for four decades after 1864. Agitation for
independence during the 1980s and early 1990s ended in the 1998
Noumea Accord, which over a period of 15 to 20 years will transfer
an increasing amount of governing responsibility from France to New
Caledonia. The agreement also commits France to conduct as many as
three referenda between 2013 and 2018, to decide whether New
Caledonia should assume full sovereignty and independence.


Geography
New Caledonia



Location:

Oceania, islands in the South Pacific Ocean, east of Australia


Geographic coordinates:

21 30 S, 165 30 E


Map references:

Oceania


Area:

total: 19,060 sq km
land: 18,575 sq km
water: 485 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than New Jersey


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

2,254 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; modified by southeast trade winds; hot, humid


Terrain:

coastal plains with interior mountains


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: Mont Panie 1,628 m


Natural resources:

nickel, chrome, iron, cobalt, manganese, silver, gold, lead, copper


Land use:

arable land: 0.32%
permanent crops: 0.22%
other: 99.46% (2005)


Irrigated land:

100 sq km (2003)


Natural hazards:

cyclones, most frequent from November to March


Environment - current issues:

erosion caused by mining exploitation and forest fires


Geography - note:

consists of the main island of New Caledonia (one of the largest in
the Pacific Ocean), the archipelago of Iles Loyaute, and numerous
small, sparsely populated islands and atolls


People
New Caledonia



Population:

224,824 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 27.3% (male 31,376/female 30,064)
15-64 years: 65.6% (male 74,064/female 73,369)
65 years and over: 7.1% (male 7,377/female 8,574) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 28.4 years
male: 28 years
female: 28.8 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.175% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

17.39 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

5.64 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA
note: there has been steady emigration from Wallis and Futuna to New
Caledonia (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.86 male(s)/female
total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 7.19 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 7.85 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 6.5 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 74.75 years
male: 71.76 years
female: 77.88 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.21 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: New Caledonian(s)
adjective: New Caledonian


Ethnic groups:

Melanesian 44.1%, European 34.1%, Wallisian & Futunian 9%, Tahitian
2.6%, Indonesian 2.5%, Vietnamese 1.4%, Ni-Vanuatu 1.1%, other 5.2%
(1996 census)


Religions:

Roman Catholic 60%, Protestant 30%, other 10%


Languages:

French (official), 33 Melanesian-Polynesian dialects


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 96.2%
male: 96.8%
female: 95.5% (1996 census)


Government
New Caledonia



Country name:

conventional long form: Territory of New Caledonia and Dependencies
conventional short form: New Caledonia
local long form: Territoire des Nouvelle-Caledonie et Dependances
local short form: Nouvelle-Caledonie


Dependency status:

territorial collectivity of France since 1998


Government type:

NA


Capital:

name: Noumea
geographic coordinates: 22 16 S, 166 27 E
time difference: UTC+11 (16 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

none (overseas territory of France); there are no first-order
administrative divisions as defined by the US Government, but there
are 3 provinces named Province des Iles, Province Nord, and Province
Sud


Independence:

none (overseas territory of France); note - a referendum on
independence was held in 1998 but did not pass; a new referendum is
scheduled for 2014


National holiday:

Bastille Day, 14 July (1789)


Constitution:

4 October 1958 (French Constitution)


Legal system:

based on French civil law; the 1988 Matignon Accords grant
substantial autonomy to the islands


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Nicolas SARKOZY (since 16 May 2007);
represented by High Commissioner Yves DASSONVILLE (since 9 November
2007)
head of government: President of the Government Harold MARTIN (since
7 August 2007)
cabinet: Cabinet consisting of 11 members elected from and by the
Territorial Congress
elections: French president elected by popular vote for a five-year
term; high commissioner appointed by the French president on the
advice of the French Ministry of Interior; president of the
government elected by the members of the Territorial Congress for a
five-year term (no term limits); note - last election held 7 August
2007 when Harold MARTIN was elected following the resignation of
Marie-Noelle THEMEREAU as president on 24 July 2007 (next to be held
in 2012)


Legislative branch:

unicameral Territorial Congress or Congres du territoire (54 seats;
members belong to the three Provincial Assemblies or Assemblees
Provinciales elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held 9 May 2004 (next to be held in 2009)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
RPCR-UMP 16, AE 16, UNI-FLNKS 8, UC 7, FN 4, others 3
note: New Caledonia currently holds one seat in the French Senate;
by 2010, New Caledonia will gain a second seat in the French Senate;
elections last held 24 September 2001 (next to be held not later
than September 2007); results - percent of vote by party - NA; seats
by party - UMP 1; New Caledonia also elects two seats to the French
National Assembly; elections last held 10 and 17 June 2007 (next to
be held on June 2012); results - percent of vote by party - NA;
seats by party - UMP 2


Judicial branch:

Court of Appeal or Cour d'Appel; County Courts; Joint Commerce
Tribunal Court; Children's Court


Political parties and leaders:

Alliance pour la Caledonie or APLC [Didier LE ROUX]; Caledonian
Union or UC; Federation des Comites de Coordination des
Independantistes or FCCI [Francois BURCK]; Front National or FN [Guy
GEORGE]; Front Uni de Liberation Kanak or FULK [Ernest UNE]; Kanak
Socialist Front for National Liberation or FLNKS (includes PALIKA,
UNI, UC, and UPM); Parti de Liberation Kanak or PALIKA [Paul
NEAOUTYINE and Elie POIGOUNE]; Rally for Caledonia in the Republic
(anti independence) or RPCR-UMP [Jacques LAFLEUR]; The Future
Together or AE [Harold MARTIN]; Union Nationale pour l'Independance
or UNI [Paul NEAOUTYINE]; note - may no longer exist, but Paul
NEAOUTYINE has since become a president of Parti de Liberation Kanak
or PALIKA; Union Progressiste Melanesienne or UPM [Victor TUTUGORO]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

ITUC, PIF (associate member), SPC, UPU, WFTU, WMO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (overseas territory of France)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (overseas territory of France)


Flag description:

the flag of France is used


Economy
New Caledonia



Economy - overview:

New Caledonia has about 25% of the world's known nickel resources.
Only a small amount of the land is suitable for cultivation, and
food accounts for about 20% of imports. In addition to nickel,
substantial financial support from France - equal to more than 15%
of GDP - and tourism are keys to the health of the economy.
Substantial new investment in the nickel industry, combined with the
recovery of global nickel prices, brightens the economic outlook for
the next several years.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$3.158 billion (2003 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$3.3 billion (2003 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

NA%


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$15,000 (2003 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 15%
industry: 8.8%
services: 76.2% (2003)


Labor force:

78,990 (2004)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 20%
industry: 20%
services: 60% (2002)


Unemployment rate:

17.1% (2004)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $996 million
expenditures: $1.072 billion (2001 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

1.4% (2000 est.)


Agriculture - products:

vegetables; beef, deer, other livestock products; fish


Industries:

nickel mining and smelting


Industrial production growth rate:

-0.6% (1996)


Electricity - production:

1.602 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

1.49 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 76.3%
hydro: 23.7%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

11,560 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

356.2 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

11,780 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Exports:

$1.341 billion f.o.b. (2006)


Exports - commodities:

ferronickels, nickel ore, fish


Exports - partners:

Japan 20.1%, China 14.5%, Taiwan 14.2%, France 11.6%, Belgium 10.4%,
Spain 8.6%, South Africa 6.9% (2007)


Imports:

$1.998 billion f.o.b. (2006)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, fuels, chemicals, foodstuffs


Imports - partners:

France 36.7%, Singapore 14.7%, Australia 12.1%, NZ 5.2%, Germany
4.6% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$524.3 million annual subsidy from France (2004)


Debt - external:

$79 million (1998 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Comptoirs Francais du Pacifique franc (XPF)


Currency code:

XPF


Exchange rates:

Comptoirs Francais du Pacifique francs (XPF) per US dollar - 87.59
(2007), 95.025 (2006), 95.89 (2005), 96.04 (2004), 105.66 (2003)


Communications
New Caledonia



Telephones - main lines in use:

60,200 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

176,400 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: NA
domestic: a submarine cable network connection between New Caledonia
and Australia, completed in 2007, is expected to significantly
increase network capacity and improve high-speed connectivity and
access to international networks
international: country code - 687; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Pacific Ocean) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 5, shortwave 0 (1998)


Radios:

107,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

6 (plus 25 repeaters) (1997)


Televisions:

52,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.nc


Internet hosts:

15,487 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

80,000 (2006)


Transportation
New Caledonia



Airports:

25 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 12
over 3,047 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 9
under 914 m: 2 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 13
914 to 1,523 m: 7
under 914 m: 6 (2007)


Heliports:

6 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 5,622 km (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 2
by type: cargo 1, passenger/cargo 1 (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Noumea


Military
New Caledonia



Military branches:

no regular indigenous military forces; French Armed Forces (includes
Army, Navy, Air Force, Gendarmerie); Police Force


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 57,738 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 47,342 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 2,202
female: 2,121 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

NA


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of France


Transnational Issues
New Caledonia



Disputes - international:

Matthew and Hunter Islands east of New Caledonia claimed by France
and Vanuatu



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@New Zealand

Introduction
New Zealand



Background:

The Polynesian Maori reached New Zealand in about A.D. 800. In 1840,
their chieftains entered into a compact with Britain, the Treaty of
Waitangi, in which they ceded sovereignty to Queen Victoria while
retaining territorial rights. In that same year, the British began
the first organized colonial settlement. A series of land wars
between 1843 and 1872 ended with the defeat of the native peoples.
The British colony of New Zealand became an independent dominion in
1907 and supported the UK militarily in both World Wars. New
Zealand's full participation in a number of defense alliances lapsed
by the 1980s. In recent years, the government has sought to address
longstanding Maori grievances.


Geography
New Zealand



Location:

Oceania, islands in the South Pacific Ocean, southeast of Australia


Geographic coordinates:

41 00 S, 174 00 E


Map references:

Oceania


Area:

total: 268,680 sq km
land: 268,021 sq km
water: NA
note: includes Antipodes Islands, Auckland Islands, Bounty Islands,
Campbell Island, Chatham Islands, and Kermadec Islands


Area - comparative:

about the size of Colorado


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

15,134 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin


Climate:

temperate with sharp regional contrasts


Terrain:

predominately mountainous with some large coastal plains


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: Aoraki-Mount Cook 3,754 m


Natural resources:

natural gas, iron ore, sand, coal, timber, hydropower, gold,
limestone


Land use:

arable land: 5.54%
permanent crops: 6.92%
other: 87.54% (2005)


Irrigated land:

2,850 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

397 cu km (1995)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 2.11 cu km/yr (48%/9%/42%)
per capita: 524 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

earthquakes are common, though usually not severe; volcanic activity


Environment - current issues:

deforestation; soil erosion; native flora and fauna hard-hit by
invasive species


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living
Resources, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83,
Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: Antarctic Seals, Marine Life Conservation


Geography - note:

about 80% of the population lives in cities; Wellington is the
southernmost national capital in the world


People
New Zealand



Population:

4,173,460 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 20.9% (male 446,883/female 424,240)
15-64 years: 66.5% (male 1,390,669/female 1,385,686)
65 years and over: 12.6% (male 238,560/female 287,422) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 36.3 years
male: 35.6 years
female: 37.1 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.971% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

14.09 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

7 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

2.62 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.83 male(s)/female
total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 4.99 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 5.62 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 4.33 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 80.24 years
male: 78.33 years
female: 82.25 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.11 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.1% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

1,400 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 200 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: New Zealander(s)
adjective: New Zealand


Ethnic groups:

European 69.8%, Maori 7.9%, Asian 5.7%, Pacific islander 4.4%, other
0.5%, mixed 7.8%, unspecified 3.8% (2001 census)


Religions:

Anglican 14.9%, Roman Catholic 12.4%, Presbyterian 10.9%, Methodist
2.9%, Pentecostal 1.7%, Baptist 1.3%, other Christian 9.4%, other
3.3%, unspecified 17.2%, none 26% (2001 census)


Languages:

English (official), Maori (official), Sign Language (official)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99%
male: 99%
female: 99% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 19 years
male: 19 years
female: 20 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

6.2% of GDP (2006)


Government
New Zealand



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: New Zealand
abbreviation: NZ


Government type:

parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Wellington
geographic coordinates: 41 28 S, 174 51 E
time difference: UTC+12 (17 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins first Sunday in October; ends
third Sunday in March
note: New Zealand is divided into two time zones, including Chatham
Island


Administrative divisions:

16 regions and 1 territory*; Auckland, Bay of Plenty, Canterbury,
Chatham Islands*, Gisborne, Hawke's Bay, Manawatu-Wanganui,
Marlborough, Nelson, Northland, Otago, Southland, Taranaki, Tasman,
Waikato, Wellington, West Coast


Dependent areas:

Cook Islands, Niue, Tokelau


Independence:

26 September 1907 (from UK)


National holiday:

Waitangi Day (Treaty of Waitangi established British sovereignty
over New Zealand), 6 February (1840); ANZAC Day (commemorated as the
anniversary of the landing of troops of the Australian and New
Zealand Army Corps during World War I at Gallipoli, Turkey), 25
April (1915)


Constitution:

consists of a series of legal documents, including certain acts of
the UK and New Zealand Parliaments, as well as The Constitution Act
1986, which is the principal formal charter; adopted 1 January 1987,
effective 1 January 1987


Legal system:

based on English law, with special land legislation and land courts
for the Maori; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by Governor General Anand SATYANAND (since 23 August
2006)
head of government: Prime Minister John KEY (since 19 November
2008); Deputy Prime Minister Bill ENGLISH (since 19 November 2008)
cabinet: Executive Council appointed by the governor general on the
recommendation of the prime minister
elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor general appointed by
the monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the
majority party or the leader of a majority coalition is usually
appointed prime minister by the governor general; deputy prime
minister appointed by the governor general


Legislative branch:

unicameral House of Representatives - commonly called Parliament
(usually 120 seats; 69 members elected by popular vote in
single-member constituencies including 7 Maori constituencies, and
51 proportional seats chosen from party lists; to serve three-year
terms)
elections: last held 8 November 2008 (next to be held in 2011)
election results: percent of vote by party - NP 45.5%, NZLP 33.8%,
Green Party 6.4%, ACT New Zealand 3.7%, Maori 2.2%, Progressive
0.9%, UF 0.9%, other 6.6%; seats by party - NP 59, NZLP 43, Green
Party 8, ACT New Zealand 5, Maori 5, Progressive 1, UF 1
note: results of 2008 election saw the total number of seats
increase to 122


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court; Court of Appeal; High Court; note - judges appointed
by the Governor-General


Political parties and leaders:

ACT New Zealand [Rodney HIDE]; Green Party [Jeanette FITZSIMONS];
Maori Party [Whatarangi WINIATA]; National Party or NP [John KEY];
New Zealand First Party or NZFP [Winston PETERS]; New Zealand Labor
Party or NZLP [Phil GOFF]; Progressive Party [James (Jim) ANDERTON];
United Future or UF [Peter DUNNE]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Women's Electoral Lobby or WEL
other: apartheid groups; civil rights groups; farmers groups; Maori;
nuclear weapons groups; women's rights groups


International organization participation:

ADB, ANZUS (US suspended security obligations to NZ on 11 August
1986), APEC, ARF, ASEAN (dialogue partner), Australia Group, BIS, C,
CP, EAS, EBRD, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IEA,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU,
ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, NAM (guest), NSG, OECD, OPCW, PCA, PIF,
Sparteca, SPC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIS, UNMIT,
UNTSO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Roy N. FERGUSON
chancery: 37 Observatory Circle NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 328-4800
FAX: [1] (202) 667-5227
consulate(s) general: Los Angeles, New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador William P. McCORMICK
embassy: 29 Fitzherbert Terrace, Thorndon, Wellington
mailing address: P. O. Box 1190, Wellington; PSC 467, Box 1, APO AP
96531-1034
telephone: [64] (4) 462-6000
FAX: [64] (4) 499-0490
consulate(s) general: Auckland


Flag description:

blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant with
four red five-pointed stars edged in white centered in the outer
half of the flag; the stars represent the Southern Cross
constellation


Government - note:

while not an official symbol, the Kiwi, a small native flightless
bird, represents New Zealand


Economy
New Zealand



Economy - overview:

Over the past 20 years the government has transformed New Zealand
from an agrarian economy dependent on concessionary British market
access to a more industrialized, free market economy that can
compete globally. This dynamic growth has boosted real incomes - but
left behind many at the bottom of the ladder - and broadened and
deepened the technological capabilities of the industrial sector.
Per capita income has risen for eight consecutive years and reached
$27,300 in 2007 in purchasing power parity terms. Consumer and
government spending have driven growth in recent years, and exports
picked up in 2006 after struggling for several years. Exports were
equal to about 22% of GDP in 2007, down from 33% of GDP in 2001.
Thus far the economy has been resilient, and the Labor Government
promises that expenditures on health, education, and pensions will
increase proportionately to output. Inflationary pressures have
built in recent years and the central bank raised its key rate 13
times since January 2004 to finish 2007 at 8.25%. A large balance of
payments deficit poses another challenge in managing the economy.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$112.4 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$128.1 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

3.1% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$27,200 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 4.5%
industry: 26.2%
services: 69.3% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

2.236 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 7%
industry: 19%
services: 74% (2006 est.)


Unemployment rate:

3.6% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: %NA
highest 10%: %NA


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

36.2 (1997)


Investment (gross fixed):

23.3% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $58.31 billion
expenditures: $53.5 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 April - 31 March
note: this is the fiscal year for tax purposes


Public debt:

20.7% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.4% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

8.25% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

12.83% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$24.2 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$117.8 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$200.1 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

dairy products, lamb and mutton; wheat, barley, potatoes, pulses,
fruits, vegetables; wool, beef; fish


Industries:

food processing, wood and paper products, textiles, machinery,
transportation equipment, banking and insurance, tourism, mining


Industrial production growth rate:

1.5% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

42.41 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

38.93 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 31.6%
hydro: 57.8%
nuclear: 0%
other: 10.7% (2001)


Oil - production:

47,850 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

158,400 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

14,570 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

137,300 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

55 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

4.573 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

4.572 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

29.67 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$10.23 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$27.35 billion (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

dairy products, meat, wood and wood products, fish, machinery


Exports - partners:

Australia 22%, US 11.5%, Japan 9.2%, China 5.3%, UK 4.6% (2007)


Imports:

$29.06 billion (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, vehicles and aircraft, petroleum,
electronics, textiles, plastics


Imports - partners:

Australia 20.7%, China 13.4%, US 9.7%, Japan 9.5%, Singapore 4.9%,
Germany 4.7% (2007)


Economic aid - donor:

ODA, $259 million (2006)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$17.25 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$51.44 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$71.31 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$40.62 billion (2005)


Currency (code):

New Zealand dollar (NZD)


Currency code:

NZD


Exchange rates:

New Zealand dollars (NZD) per US dollar - 1.3811 (2007), 1.5408
(2006), 1.4203 (2005), 1.5087 (2004), 1.7221 (2003)


Communications
New Zealand



Telephones - main lines in use:

1.706 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

4.245 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: excellent domestic and international systems
domestic: NA
international: country code - 64; the Southern Cross submarine cable
system provides links to Australia, Fiji, and the US; satellite
earth stations - 8 (1 Inmarsat - Pacific Ocean, 7 other)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 124, FM 290, shortwave 4 (1998)


Radios:

3.75 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

41 (plus about 700 repeaters) (1997)


Televisions:

1.926 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.nz


Internet hosts:

1.72 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

36 (2000)


Internet users:

3.36 million (2007)


Transportation
New Zealand



Airports:

121 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 41
over 3,047 m: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 11
914 to 1,523 m: 26
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 80
1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
914 to 1,523 m: 31
under 914 m: 46 (2007)


Pipelines:

condensate 331 km; gas 1,896 km; liquid petroleum gas 172 km; oil
288 km; refined products 260 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 4,128 km
narrow gauge: 4,128 km 1.067-m gauge (506 km electrified) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 93,576 km
paved: 61,564 km (includes 172 km of expressways)
unpaved: 32,012 km (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 13
by type: bulk carrier 3, cargo 2, chemical tanker 1, passenger/cargo
4, petroleum tanker 1, roll on/roll off 2
foreign-owned: 3 (Australia 1, Germany 1, South Africa 1)
registered in other countries: 5 (Antigua and Barbuda 2, Cook
Islands 1, France 1, UK 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Auckland, Lyttelton, Marsden Point, Tauranga, Wellington, Whangarei


Military
New Zealand



Military branches:

New Zealand Defense Force (NZDF): New Zealand Army, Royal New
Zealand Navy, Royal New Zealand Air Force (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

17 years of age for voluntary military service; soldiers cannot be
deployed until the age of 18; no conscription (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,009,298
females age 16-49: 997,134 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 833,073
females age 16-49: 822,807 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 31,834
female: 30,243 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
New Zealand



Disputes - international:

asserts a territorial claim in Antarctica (Ross Dependency)


Illicit drugs:

significant consumer of amphetamines



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Nicaragua

Introduction
Nicaragua



Background:

The Pacific coast of Nicaragua was settled as a Spanish colony from
Panama in the early 16th century. Independence from Spain was
declared in 1821 and the country became an independent republic in
1838. Britain occupied the Caribbean Coast in the first half of the
19th century, but gradually ceded control of the region in
subsequent decades. Violent opposition to governmental manipulation
and corruption spread to all classes by 1978 and resulted in a
short-lived civil war that brought the Marxist Sandinista guerrillas
to power in 1979. Nicaraguan aid to leftist rebels in El Salvador
caused the US to sponsor anti-Sandinista contra guerrillas through
much of the 1980s. Free elections in 1990, 1996, and 2001, saw the
Sandinistas defeated, but voting in 2006 announced the return of
former Sandinista President Daniel ORTEGA Saavedra. Nicaragua's
infrastructure and economy - hard hit by the earlier civil war and
by Hurricane Mitch in 1998 - are slowly being rebuilt.


Geography
Nicaragua



Location:

Central America, bordering both the Caribbean Sea and the North
Pacific Ocean, between Costa Rica and Honduras


Geographic coordinates:

13 00 N, 85 00 W


Map references:

Central America and the Caribbean


Area:

total: 129,494 sq km
land: 120,254 sq km
water: 9,240 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than the state of New York


Land boundaries:

total: 1,231 km
border countries: Costa Rica 309 km, Honduras 922 km


Coastline:

910 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
continental shelf: natural prolongation


Climate:

tropical in lowlands, cooler in highlands


Terrain:

extensive Atlantic coastal plains rising to central interior
mountains; narrow Pacific coastal plain interrupted by volcanoes


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: Mogoton 2,438 m


Natural resources:

gold, silver, copper, tungsten, lead, zinc, timber, fish


Land use:

arable land: 14.81%
permanent crops: 1.82%
other: 83.37% (2005)


Irrigated land:

610 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

196.7 cu km (2000)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 1.3 cu km/yr (15%/2%/83%)
per capita: 237 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

destructive earthquakes, volcanoes, landslides; extremely
susceptible to hurricanes


Environment - current issues:

deforestation; soil erosion; water pollution


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification


Geography - note:

largest country in Central America; contains the largest freshwater
body in Central America, Lago de Nicaragua


People
Nicaragua



Population:

5,785,846 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 34.6% (male 1,019,281/female 981,903)
15-64 years: 62.1% (male 1,792,398/female 1,803,133)
65 years and over: 3.3% (male 82,840/female 106,291) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 21.7 years
male: 21.3 years
female: 22.1 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.825% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

23.7 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

4.33 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-1.13 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.78 male(s)/female
total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 25.91 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 29.06 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 22.6 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 71.21 years
male: 69.08 years
female: 73.44 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.63 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.2% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

6,400 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 500 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: intermediate
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever
vectorborne disease: dengue fever and malaria
water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Nicaraguan(s)
adjective: Nicaraguan


Ethnic groups:

mestizo (mixed Amerindian and white) 69%, white 17%, black 9%,
Amerindian 5%


Religions:

Roman Catholic 58.5%, Evangelical 21.6%, Moravian 1.6%, Jehovah's
Witness 0.9%, other 1.7%, none 15.7% (2005 census)


Languages:

Spanish 97.5% (official), Miskito 1.7%, other 0.8% (1995 census)
note: English and indigenous languages on Atlantic coast


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 67.5%
male: 67.2%
female: 67.8% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 11 years
male: 11 years
female: 11 years (2003)


Education expenditures:

3.1% of GDP (2003)


Government
Nicaragua



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Nicaragua
conventional short form: Nicaragua
local long form: Republica de Nicaragua
local short form: Nicaragua


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Managua
geographic coordinates: 12 09 N, 86 17 W
time difference: UTC-6 (1 hour behind Washington, DC during Standard
Time)


Administrative divisions:

15 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento) and 2
autonomous regions* (regiones autonomistas, singular - region
autonoma); Atlantico Norte*, Atlantico Sur*, Boaco, Carazo,
Chinandega, Chontales, Esteli, Granada, Jinotega, Leon, Madriz,
Managua, Masaya, Matagalpa, Nueva Segovia, Rio San Juan, Rivas


Independence:

15 September 1821 (from Spain)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 15 September (1821)


Constitution:

9 January 1987; reforms in 1995, 2000, and 2005


Legal system:

civil law system; Supreme Court may review administrative acts;
accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

16 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Daniel ORTEGA Saavedra (since 10 January
2007); Vice President Jaime MORALES Carazo (since 10 January 2007);
note - the president is both chief of state and head of government
head of government: President Daniel ORTEGA Saavedra (since 10
January 2007); Vice President Jaime MORALES Carazo (since 10 January
2007)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
elections: president and vice president elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for a five-year term (eligible for a second term so
long as it is not consecutive); election last held 5 November 2006
(next to be held by November 2011)
election results: Daniel ORTEGA Saavedra elected president - 38.07%,
Eduardo MONTEALEGRE 29%, Jose RIZO 26.21%, Edmundo JARQUIN 6.44%


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly or Asamblea Nacional (92 seats; 90
members are elected by proportional representation and party lists
to serve five-year terms; 1 seat for the previous president, 1 seat
for the runner-up in previous presidential election)
elections: last held 5 November 2006 (next to be held by November
2011)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
FSLN 38, PLC 25, ALN 23 (22 plus one for presidential candidate
Eduardo MONTEALEGRE, runner-up in the 2006 presidential election),
MRS 5, APRE 1 (outgoing President Enrique BOLANOS)


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court or Corte Suprema de Justicia (16 judges elected for
five-year terms by the National Assembly)


Political parties and leaders:

Conservative Party or PC [Azalia AVILES Salmeron]; Liberal
Constitutionalist Party or PLC [Jorge CASTILLO Quant]; Nicaraguan
Liberal Alliance or ALN [Eduardo MONTEALEGRE]; Sandinista National
Liberation Front or FSLN [Daniel ORTEGA Saavedra]; Sandinista
Renovation Movement or MRS [Enrique SAENZ Navarrete]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

National Workers Front or FNT (a Sandinista umbrella group of eight
labor unions including: Farm Workers Association or ATC, Health
Workers Federation or FETASALUD, Heroes and Martyrs Confederation of
Professional Associations or CONAPRO, National Association of
Educators of Nicaragua or ANDEN, National Union of Employees or UNE,
National Union of Farmers and Ranchers or UNAG, Sandinista Workers
Central or CST, and Union of Journalists of Nicaragua or UPN);
Permanent Congress of Workers or CPT (an umbrella group of four
non-Sandinista labor unions including: Autonomous Nicaraguan Workers
Central or CTN-A, Confederation of Labor Unification or CUS,
Independent General Confederation of Labor or CGT-I, and Labor
Action and Unity Central or CAUS); Nicaraguan Workers' Central or
CTN (an independent labor union); Superior Council of Private
Enterprise or COSEP (a confederation of business groups)


International organization participation:

BCIE, CACM, FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ITSO, ITU, ITUC,
LAES, LAIA (observer), MIGA, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO,
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Arturo CRUZ Sequeira, Jr.
chancery: 1627 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009
telephone: [1] (202) 939-6570, [1] (202) 939-6573
FAX: [1] (202) 939-6545
consulate(s) general: Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, San
Francisco


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Paul A. TRIVELLI
embassy: Kilometer 5.5 Carretera Sur, Managua
mailing address: American Embassy Managua, APO AA 34021
telephone: [505] 252-7100, 252-7888; 252-7634 (after hours)
FAX: [505] 252-7304


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), white, and blue with the
national coat of arms centered in the white band; the coat of arms
features a triangle encircled by the words REPUBLICA DE NICARAGUA on
the top and AMERICA CENTRAL on the bottom; similar to the flag of El
Salvador, which features a round emblem encircled by the words
REPUBLICA DE EL SALVADOR EN LA AMERICA CENTRAL centered in the white
band; also similar to the flag of Honduras, which has five blue
stars arranged in an X pattern centered in the white band


Economy
Nicaragua



Economy - overview:

Nicaragua has widespread underemployment, one of the highest degrees
of income inequality in the world, and the third lowest per capita
income in the Western Hemisphere. While the country has progressed
toward macroeconomic stability in the past few years, annual GDP
growth has been far too low to meet the country's needs, forcing the
country to rely on international economic assistance to meet fiscal
and debt financing obligations. In early 2004, Nicaragua secured
some $4.5 billion in foreign debt reduction under the Heavily
Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative, and in October 2007, the
IMF approved a new poverty reduction and growth facility (PRGF)
program that should create fiscal space for social spending and
investment. The continuity of a relationship with the IMF reinforces
donor confidence, despite private sector concerns surrounding
ORTEGA, which has dampened investment. The US-Central America Free
Trade Agreement (CAFTA) has been in effect since April 2006 and has
expanded export opportunities for many agricultural and manufactured
goods. Energy shortages fueled by high oil prices, however, are a
serious bottleneck to growth.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$16.17 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$5.723 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

3.8% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$2,800 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 16.9%
industry: 25.8%
services: 57.2% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

2.262 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 29%
industry: 19%
services: 52% (2006 est.)


Unemployment rate:

4.9% plus underemployment of 46.5% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

48% (2005)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.2%
highest 10%: 33.8% (2001)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

43.1 (2001)


Investment (gross fixed):

31.8% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $1.115 billion
expenditures: $1.291 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

62.9% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

11.1% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

NA (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

13.04% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$465.1 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$1.802 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$4.133 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

coffee, bananas, sugarcane, cotton, rice, corn, tobacco, sesame,
soya, beans; beef, veal, pork, poultry, dairy products; shrimp,
lobsters


Industries:

food processing, chemicals, machinery and metal products, textiles,
clothing, petroleum refining and distribution, beverages, footwear,
wood


Industrial production growth rate:

5% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

3.012 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

2.413 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

63.95 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 83.9%
hydro: 7.7%
nuclear: 0%
other: 8.4% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - consumption:

28,880 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

808.5 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

29,700 bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$1.001 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$2.313 billion f.o.b.; note - includes free trade zones (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

coffee, beef, shrimp and lobster, tobacco, sugar, gold, peanuts


Exports - partners:

US 31.7%, El Salvador 14%, Honduras 9.3%, Costa Rica 7.2%, Canada
5.8%, Guatemala 5.5%, Mexico 4.8% (2007)


Imports:

$4.078 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

consumer goods, machinery and equipment, raw materials, petroleum
products


Imports - partners:

US 22.5%, Mexico 13.5%, Costa Rica 8.4%, Venezuela 6.4%, Guatemala
6.2%, El Salvador 4.8% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$471 million (2006 est.)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$1.103 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$3.341 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

gold cordoba (NIO)


Currency code:

NIO


Exchange rates:

gold cordobas (NIO) per US dollar - 18.457 (2007), 17.582 (2006),
16.733 (2005), 15.937 (2004), 15.105 (2003)


Communications
Nicaragua



Telephones - main lines in use:

247,900 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

2.123 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: system being upgraded by foreign investment;
nearly all installed telecommunications capacity now uses digital
technology, owing to investments since privatization of the formerly
state-owned telecommunications company
domestic: since privatization, access to fixed-line and
mobile-cellular services has improved but teledensity still lags
behind other Central American countries; connected to Central
American Microwave System
international: country code - 505; the Americas Region Caribbean
Ring System (ARCOS-1) fiber optic submarine cable provides
connectivity to South and Central America, parts of the Caribbean,
and the US; satellite earth stations - 1 Intersputnik (Atlantic
Ocean region) and 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 63, FM 32, shortwave 1 (1998)


Radios:

1.24 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

3 (plus 7 repeaters) (1997)


Televisions:

320,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.ni


Internet hosts:

58,157 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

3 (2000)


Internet users:

155,000 (2006)


Transportation
Nicaragua



Airports:

163 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 11
2,438 to 3,047 m: 3
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 3
under 914 m: 3 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 152
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 16
under 914 m: 135 (2007)


Pipelines:

oil 54 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 6 km
narrow gauge: 6 km 1.067-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 19,036 km
paved: 2,299 km
unpaved: 16,737 km (2005)


Waterways:

2,220 km (including lakes Managua and Nicaragua) (2007)


Ports and terminals:

Bluefields, Corinto, El Bluff


Military
Nicaragua



Military branches:

National Army of Nicaragua (ENN; includes Navy, Air Force) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

17 years of age for voluntary military service; tour of duty 18-36
months (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,513,312
females age 16-49: 1,507,999 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,235,400
females age 16-49: 1,302,318 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 72,689
female: 70,452 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0.6% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Nicaragua



Disputes - international:

memorials and countermemorials were filed by the parties in
Nicaragua's 1999 and 2001 proceedings against Honduras and Colombia
at the ICJ over the maritime boundary and territorial claims in the
western Caribbean Sea, final public hearings are scheduled for 2007;
the 1992 ICJ ruling for El Salvador and Honduras advised a
tripartite resolution to establish a maritime boundary in the Gulf
of Fonseca, which considers Honduran access to the Pacific; legal
dispute over navigational rights of San Juan River on border with
Costa Rica


Illicit drugs:

transshipment point for cocaine destined for the US and
transshipment point for arms-for-drugs dealing



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Niger

Introduction
Niger



Background:

Niger became independent from France in 1960 and experienced
single-party and military rule until 1991, when Gen. Ali SAIBOU was
forced by public pressure to allow multiparty elections, which
resulted in a democratic government in 1993. Political infighting
brought the government to a standstill and in 1996 led to a coup by
Col. Ibrahim BARE. In 1999 BARE was killed in a coup by military
officers who promptly restored democratic rule and held elections
that brought Mamadou TANDJA to power in December of that year.
TANDJA was reelected in 2004. Niger is one of the poorest countries
in the world with minimal government services and insufficient funds
to develop its resource base. The largely agrarian and
subsistence-based economy is frequently disrupted by extended
droughts common to the Sahel region of Africa. A predominately
Tuareg ethnic group emerged in February 2007, the Nigerien Movement
for Justice (MNJ), and attacked several military targets in Niger's
northern region throughout 2007. Events have since evolved into a
budding insurrection.


Geography
Niger



Location:

Western Africa, southeast of Algeria


Geographic coordinates:

16 00 N, 8 00 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 1.267 million sq km
land: 1,266,700 sq km
water: 300 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly less than twice the size of Texas


Land boundaries:

total: 5,697 km
border countries: Algeria 956 km, Benin 266 km, Burkina Faso 628 km,
Chad 1,175 km, Libya 354 km, Mali 821 km, Nigeria 1,497 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

desert; mostly hot, dry, dusty; tropical in extreme south


Terrain:

predominately desert plains and sand dunes; flat to rolling plains
in south; hills in north


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Niger River 200 m
highest point: Mont Bagzane 2,022 m


Natural resources:

uranium, coal, iron ore, tin, phosphates, gold, molybdenum, gypsum,
salt, petroleum


Land use:

arable land: 11.43%
permanent crops: 0.01%
other: 88.56% (2005)


Irrigated land:

730 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

33.7 cu km (2003)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 2.18 cu km/yr (4%/0%/95%)
per capita: 156 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

recurring droughts


Environment - current issues:

overgrazing; soil erosion; deforestation; desertification; wildlife
populations (such as elephant, hippopotamus, giraffe, and lion)
threatened because of poaching and habitat destruction


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea


Geography - note:

landlocked; one of the hottest countries in the world; northern
four-fifths is desert, southern one-fifth is savanna, suitable for
livestock and limited agriculture


People
Niger



Population:

13,272,679 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 47% (male 3,174,834/female 3,057,003)
15-64 years: 50.6% (male 3,450,393/female 3,267,496)
65 years and over: 2.4% (male 159,945/female 163,008) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 16.4 years
male: 16.5 years
female: 16.4 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.878% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

49.62 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

20.26 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-0.57 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.98 male(s)/female
total population: 1.05 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 115.42 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 119.3 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 111.42 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 44.28 years
male: 44.3 years
female: 44.26 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

7.29 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

1.2% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

70,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

4,800 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne disease: malaria
respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis
note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Nigerien(s)
adjective: Nigerien


Ethnic groups:

Haoussa 55.4%, Djerma Sonrai 21%, Tuareg 9.3%, Peuhl 8.5%, Kanouri
Manga 4.7%, other 1.2% (2001 census)


Religions:

Muslim 80%, other (includes indigenous beliefs and Christian) 20%


Languages:

French (official), Hausa, Djerma


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 28.7%
male: 42.9%
female: 15.1% (2005 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 4 years
male: 5 years
female: 3 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

3.4% of GDP (2006)


Government
Niger



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Niger
conventional short form: Niger
local long form: Republique du Niger
local short form: Niger


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Niamey
geographic coordinates: 13 31 N, 2 07 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

8 regions (regions, singular - region) includes 1 capital district*
(communite urbaine); Agadez, Diffa, Dosso, Maradi, Niamey*, Tahoua,
Tillaberi, Zinder


Independence:

3 August 1960 (from France)


National holiday:

Republic Day, 18 December (1958)


Constitution:

new constitution adopted 18 July 1999


Legal system:

based on French civil law system and customary law; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Mamadou TANDJA (since 22 December 1999)
head of government: Prime Minister Seyni OUMAROU (since 3 June
2007); appointed by the president and shares some executive
responsibilities with the president
cabinet: 26-member Cabinet appointed by the president
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); second round of election last held 4
December 2004 (next to be held December 2009)
election results: Mamadou TANDJA reelected president; percent of
vote - Mamadou TANDJA 65.5%, Mahamadou ISSOUFOU 34.5%


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly (113 seats; members elected by popular
vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held 4 December 2004 (next to be held in December
2009)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
MNSD 47, PNDS 25, CDS 22, RSD 7, RDP 6, ANDP 5, PSDN 1


Judicial branch:

State Court or Cour d'Etat; Court of Appeals or Cour d'Appel


Political parties and leaders:

Democratic and Social Convention-Rahama or CDS-Rahama [Mahamane
OUSMANE]; National Movement for a Developing Society-Nassara or
MNSD-Nassara [Hama AMADOU]; Niger Social Democratic Party or PSDN;
Nigerien Alliance for Democracy and Social Progress-Zaman Lahiya or
ANDP-Zaman Lahiya [Moumouni DJERMAKOYE]; Nigerien Party for Autonomy
or PNA-Alouma'a [Sanousi JACKOU]; Nigerien Party for Democracy and
Socialism or PNDS-Tarrayya [Issifou MAHAMADOU]; Nigerien Progressive
Party or PPN-RDA [Abdoulaye DIORI]; Rally for Democracy and Progress
or RDP-jama'a [Hamid ALGABID]; Social and Democratic Rally or
RSD-Gaskiyya [Cheiffou AMADOU]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

The Nigerien Movement for Justice or MNJ, a predominantly Tuareg
rebel group


International organization participation:

ACP, AfDB, AU, ECOWAS, Entente, FAO, FZ, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC,
IOM, IPU, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MONUC, NAM, OIC, OIF, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WADB (regional), WAEMU,
WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Aminata Djibrilla Maiga TOURE
chancery: 2204 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 483-4224 through 4227
FAX: [1] (202)483-3169


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Bernadette M. ALLEN
embassy: Rue Des Ambassades, Niamey
mailing address: B. P. 11201, Niamey
telephone: [227] 20-72-26-61 thru 64
FAX: [227] 20-73-31-67


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of orange (top), white, and green with
a small orange disk (representing the sun) centered in the white
band; similar to the flag of India, which has a blue spoked wheel
centered in the white band


Economy
Niger



Economy - overview:

Niger is one of the poorest countries in the world, ranking near
last on the United Nations Development Fund index of human
development. It is a landlocked, Sub-Saharan nation, whose economy
centers on subsistence crops, livestock, and some of the world's
largest uranium deposits. Drought cycles, desertification, and a
2.9% population growth rate, have undercut the economy. Niger shares
a common currency, the CFA franc, and a common central bank, the
Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO), with seven other
members of the West African Monetary Union. In December 2000, Niger
qualified for enhanced debt relief under the International Monetary
Fund program for Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) and concluded
an agreement with the Fund on a Poverty Reduction and Growth
Facility (PRGF). Debt relief provided under the enhanced HIPC
initiative significantly reduces Niger's annual debt service
obligations, freeing funds for expenditures on basic health care,
primary education, HIV/AIDS prevention, rural infrastructure, and
other programs geared at poverty reduction. In December 2005, Niger
received 100% multilateral debt relief from the IMF, which
translates into the forgiveness of approximately US $86 million in
debts to the IMF, excluding the remaining assistance under HIPC.
Nearly half of the government's budget is derived from foreign donor
resources. Future growth may be sustained by exploitation of oil,
gold, coal, and other mineral resources. Uranium prices have
increased sharply in the last few years. A drought and locust
infestation in 2005 led to food shortages for as many as 2.5 million
Nigeriens.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$8.859 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$4.174 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

3.2% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$700 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 39%
industry: 17%
services: 44% (2001)


Labor force:

70,000 salaried workers, 60% of whom are employed in the public
sector (1995)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 90%
industry: 6%
services: 4% (1995)


Unemployment rate:

NA%


Population below poverty line:

63% (1993 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 0.8%
highest 10%: 35.4% (1995)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

50.5 (1995)


Budget:

revenues: $320 million (includes $134 million from foreign sources)
expenditures: $320 million (2002 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

0.1% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

4.25% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

NA (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$604.5 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$193.7 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$318.9 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

cowpeas, cotton, peanuts, millet, sorghum, cassava (tapioca), rice;
cattle, sheep, goats, camels, donkeys, horses, poultry


Industries:

uranium mining, cement, brick, soap, textiles, food processing,
chemicals, slaughterhouses


Industrial production growth rate:

5.1% (2003 est.)


Electricity - production:

240 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

443.2 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

225 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

5,550 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

5,425 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

NA bbl


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$321 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$428 million f.o.b. (2006)


Exports - commodities:

uranium ore, livestock, cowpeas, onions


Exports - partners:

France 57%, Nigeria 26.4%, Ghana 4.1% (2007)


Imports:

$800 million f.o.b. (2006)


Imports - commodities:

foodstuffs, machinery, vehicles and parts, petroleum, cereals


Imports - partners:

France 15.9%, French Polynesia 8.8%, Nigeria 8.6%, Belgium 8.6%, US
6.9%, Cote d'Ivoire 5.6% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$515.4 million (2005)


Debt - external:

$2.1 billion (2003 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note - responsible
authority is the Central Bank of the West African States


Currency code:

XOF


Exchange rates:

Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US dollar - 493.51
(2007), 522.59 (2006), 527.47 (2005), 528.29 (2004), 581.2 (2003)
note: since 1 January 1999, the XOF franc has been pegged to the
euro at a rate of 655.957 XOF francs per euro


Communications
Niger



Telephones - main lines in use:

24,000 (2005)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

900,000 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: inadequate; small system of wire, radio
telephone communications, and microwave radio relay links
concentrated in the southwestern area of Niger
domestic: combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity only
about 7 per 100 persons; domestic satellite system with 3 earth
stations and 1 planned
international: country code - 227; satellite earth stations - 2
Intelsat (1 Atlantic Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 5, FM 6, shortwave 4 (2001)


Radios:

680,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

5 (2007)


Televisions:

125,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.ne


Internet hosts:

216 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2002)


Internet users:

40,000 (2006)


Transportation
Niger



Airports:

28 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 9
2,438 to 3,047 m: 3
1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 19
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 14
under 914 m: 3 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 18,550 km
paved: 3,803 km
unpaved: 14,747 km (2006)


Waterways:

300 km (the Niger, the only major river, is navigable to Gaya
between September and March) (2005)


Military
Niger



Military branches:

Nigerien Armed Forces (Forces Armees Nigeriennes, FAN): Army, Niger
Air Force (Force Aerienne du Niger) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

17-21 years of age for voluntary military service; 2-year service
term; women may serve in health care (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,871,868
females age 16-49: 2,696,966 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,665,108
females age 16-49: 1,548,965 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 150,728
female: 143,379 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.3% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Niger



Disputes - international:

Libya claims about 25,000 sq km in a currently dormant dispute in
the Tommo region; much of Benin-Niger boundary, including tripoint
with Nigeria, remains undemarcated; only Nigeria and Cameroon have
heeded the Lake Chad Commission's admonition to ratify the
delimitation treaty which also includes the Chad-Niger and
Niger-Nigeria boundaries


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Niger is a source, transit, and destination
country for children and women trafficked for forced labor and
sexual exploitation; caste-based slavery practices, rooted in
ancestral master-slave relationships, continue in isolated areas of
the country - an estimated 8,800 to 43,000 Nigeriens live under
conditions of traditional slavery; children are trafficked within
Niger for forced begging, forced labor in gold mines, domestic
servitude, sexual exploitation, and possibly for forced labor in
agriculture and stone quarries; women and children from neighboring
states are trafficked to and through Niger for domestic servitude,
sexual exploitation, forced labor in mines and on farms, and as
mechanics and welders
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Niger is on the Tier 2 Watch List
for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to
eliminate trafficking in 2007; in particular, measures to combat and
eliminate traditional slavery practices were weak; the government's
overall law enforcement efforts have stalled from 2006; while
efforts to protect child trafficking victims were steady, the
government failed to provide services to or rescue adult victims
subjected to traditional slavery practices, and made poor efforts to
educate the public about traditional slavery practices in general
(2008)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Nigeria

Introduction
Nigeria



Background:

British influence and control over what would become Nigeria grew
through the 19th century. A series of constitutions after World War
II granted Nigeria greater autonomy; independence came in 1960.
Following nearly 16 years of military rule, a new constitution was
adopted in 1999, and a peaceful transition to civilian government
was completed. The government continues to face the daunting task of
reforming a petroleum-based economy, whose revenues have been
squandered through corruption and mismanagement, and
institutionalizing democracy. In addition, Nigeria continues to
experience longstanding ethnic and religious tensions. Although both
the 2003 and 2007 presidential elections were marred by significant
irregularities and violence, Nigeria is currently experiencing its
longest period of civilian rule since independence. The general
elections of April 2007 marked the first civilian-to-civilian
transfer of power in the country's history.


Geography
Nigeria



Location:

Western Africa, bordering the Gulf of Guinea, between Benin and
Cameroon


Geographic coordinates:

10 00 N, 8 00 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 923,768 sq km
land: 910,768 sq km
water: 13,000 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly more than twice the size of California


Land boundaries:

total: 4,047 km
border countries: Benin 773 km, Cameroon 1,690 km, Chad 87 km, Niger
1,497 km


Coastline:

853 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 m depth or to the depth of exploitation


Climate:

varies; equatorial in south, tropical in center, arid in north


Terrain:

southern lowlands merge into central hills and plateaus; mountains
in southeast, plains in north


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Chappal Waddi 2,419 m


Natural resources:

natural gas, petroleum, tin, iron ore, coal, limestone, niobium,
lead, zinc, arable land


Land use:

arable land: 33.02%
permanent crops: 3.14%
other: 63.84% (2005)


Irrigated land:

2,820 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

286.2 cu km (2003)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 8.01 cu km/yr (21%/10%/69%)
per capita: 61 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

periodic droughts; flooding


Environment - current issues:

soil degradation; rapid deforestation; urban air and water
pollution; desertification; oil pollution - water, air, and soil;
has suffered serious damage from oil spills; loss of arable land;
rapid urbanization


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

the Niger enters the country in the northwest and flows southward
through tropical rain forests and swamps to its delta in the Gulf of
Guinea


People
Nigeria



Population:

146,255,312
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 41.7% (male 31,171,949/female 29,806,204)
15-64 years: 55.3% (male 41,243,003/female 39,611,565)
65 years and over: 3% (male 2,152,318/female 2,270,267) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 18.9 years
male: 18.8 years
female: 19 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.025% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

37.23 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

16.88 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-0.1 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.95 male(s)/female
total population: 1.04 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 95.74 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 101.83 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 89.28 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 46.53 years
male: 45.78 years
female: 47.32 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

5.01 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

5.4% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

3.6 million (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

310,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne disease: malaria and yellow fever
respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis
aerosolized dust or soil contact disease: one of the most highly
endemic areas for Lassa fever
water contact disease: leptospirosis and shistosomiasis
note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Nigerian(s)
adjective: Nigerian


Ethnic groups:

Nigeria, Africa's most populous country, is composed of more than
250 ethnic groups; the following are the most populous and
politically influential: Hausa and Fulani 29%, Yoruba 21%, Igbo
(Ibo) 18%, Ijaw 10%, Kanuri 4%, Ibibio 3.5%, Tiv 2.5%


Religions:

Muslim 50%, Christian 40%, indigenous beliefs 10%


Languages:

English (official), Hausa, Yoruba, Igbo (Ibo), Fulani


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 68%
male: 75.7%
female: 60.6% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 8 years
male: 9 years
female: 7 years (2004)


Education expenditures:

0.9% of GDP (1991)


Government
Nigeria



Country name:

conventional long form: Federal Republic of Nigeria
conventional short form: Nigeria


Government type:

federal republic


Capital:

name: Abuja
geographic coordinates: 9 05 N, 7 32 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

36 states and 1 territory*; Abia, Adamawa, Akwa Ibom, Anambra,
Bauchi, Bayelsa, Benue, Borno, Cross River, Delta, Ebonyi, Edo,
Ekiti, Enugu, Federal Capital Territory*, Gombe, Imo, Jigawa,
Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Kebbi, Kogi, Kwara, Lagos, Nassarawa, Niger,
Ogun, Ondo, Osun, Oyo, Plateau, Rivers, Sokoto, Taraba, Yobe, Zamfara


Independence:

1 October 1960 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day (National Day), 1 October (1960)


Constitution:

new constitution adopted 5 May 1999; effective 29 May 1999


Legal system:

based on English common law, Islamic law (in 12 northern states),
and traditional law; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with
reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Umaru Musa YAR'ADUA (since 29 May 2007);
note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government
head of government: President Umaru Musa YAR'ADUA (since 29 May 2007)
cabinet: Federal Executive Council
elections: president is elected by popular vote for a four-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 21 April 2007 (next
to be held in April 2011)
election results: Umaru Musa YAR'ADUA elected president; percent of
vote - Umaru Musa YAR'ADUA 69.8%, Muhammadu BUHARI 18.7%, Atiku
ABUBAKAR 7.5%, Orji Uzor KALU 1.7%, other 2.3%


Legislative branch:

bicameral National Assembly consists of the Senate (109 seats, 3
from each state plus 1 from Abuja; members elected by popular vote
to serve four-year terms) and House of Representatives (360 seats;
members elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
elections: Senate - last held 21 April 2007 (next to be held in
April 2011); House of Representatives - last held 21 April 2007
(next to be held in April 2011)
election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - PDP 53.7%,
ANPP 27.9%, AD 9.7%, other 8.7%; seats by party - PDP 76, ANPP 27,
AD 6; House of Representatives - percent of vote by party - PDP
54.5%, ANPP 27.4%, AD 8.8%, UNPP 2.8%, NPD 1.9%, APGA 1.6%, PRP
0.8%; seats by party - PDP 76, ANPP 27, AD 6, UNPP 2, APGA 2, NPD 1,
PRP 1, vacant 1


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (judges appointed by the President); Federal Court of
Appeal (judges are appointed by the federal government on the advice
of the Advisory Judicial Committee)


Political parties and leaders:

Accord Party [Ikra Aliyu BILBIS]; Action Congress or AC [Hassan
ZUMI]; Alliance for Democracy or AD [Mojisoluwa AKINFENWA]; All
Nigeria Peoples' Party or ANPP [Edwin UME-EZEOKE]; All Progressives
Grand Alliance or APGA [Victor C. UMEH]; Democratic People's Party
or DPP [Jeremiah USENI]; Fresh Democratic Party [Chris OKOTIE];
Labor Party [Dan NWANYANWU]; Movement for the Restoration and
Defense of Democracy or MRDD [Mohammed Gambo JIMETA]; National
Democratic Party or NDP [Aliyu Habu FARI]; Peoples Democratic Party
or PDP [vacant]; Peoples Progressive Alliance [Clement EBRI];
Peoples Redemption Party or PRP [Abdulkadir Balarabe MUSA]; Peoples
Salvation Party or PSP [Lawal MAITURARE]; United Nigeria Peoples
Party or UNPP [Mallam Selah JAMBO]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Academic Staff Union for Universities or ASUU; Campaign for
Democracy or CD; Civil Liberties Organization or CLO; Committee for
the Defense of Human Rights or CDHR; Constitutional Right Project or
CRP; Human Right Africa; National Association of Democratic Lawyers
or NADL; National Association of Nigerian Students or NANS; Nigerian
Bar Association or NBA; Nigerian Labor Congress or NLC; Nigerian
Medical Association or NMA; the Press; Universal Defenders of
Democracy or UDD


International organization participation:

ACP, AfDB, AU, C, ECOWAS, FAO, G-15, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURCAT,
MINURSO, MONUC, NAM, OAS (observer), OIC, OPCW, OPEC, PCA, UN,
UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOCI, UNOMIG,
UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Oluwole ROTIMI
chancery: 3519 International Court NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 986-8400
FAX: [1] (202) 775-1385
consulate(s) general: Atlanta, New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Robin SANDERS
embassy: 1075 Diplomatic Drive, Central District Area, Abuja
mailing address: P. O. Box 5760, Garki, Abuja
telephone: [234] (9) 461-4000
FAX: [234] (9) 461-4036


Flag description:

three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), white, and green


Economy
Nigeria



Economy - overview:

Oil-rich Nigeria, long hobbled by political instability, corruption,
inadequate infrastructure, and poor macroeconomic management, is
undertaking some reforms under a new reform-minded administration.
Nigeria's former military rulers failed to diversify the economy
away from its overdependence on the capital-intensive oil sector,
which provides 20% of GDP, 95% of foreign exchange earnings, and
about 80% of budgetary revenues. The largely subsistence
agricultural sector has failed to keep up with rapid population
growth - Nigeria is Africa's most populous country - and the
country, once a large net exporter of food, now must import food.
Following the signing of an IMF stand-by agreement in August 2000,
Nigeria received a debt-restructuring deal from the Paris Club and a
$1 billion credit from the IMF, both contingent on economic reforms.
Nigeria pulled out of its IMF program in April 2002, after failing
to meet spending and exchange rate targets, making it ineligible for
additional debt forgiveness from the Paris Club. In the last year
the government has begun showing the political will to implement the
market-oriented reforms urged by the IMF, such as to modernize the
banking system, to curb inflation by blocking excessive wage
demands, and to resolve regional disputes over the distribution of
earnings from the oil industry. In 2003, the government began
deregulating fuel prices, announced the privatization of the
country's four oil refineries, and instituted the National Economic
Empowerment Development Strategy, a domestically designed and run
program modeled on the IMF's Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
for fiscal and monetary management. In November 2005, Abuja won
Paris Club approval for a debt-relief deal that eliminated $18
billion of debt in exchange for $12 billion in payments - a total
package worth $30 billion of Nigeria's total $37 billion external
debt. The deal requires Nigeria to be subject to stringent IMF
reviews. GDP rose strongly in 2007, based largely on increased oil
exports and high global crude prices. Newly-elected President
YAR'ADUA has pledged to continue the economic reforms of his
predecessor and the proposed budget for 2008 reflects the
administrations emphasis on infrastructure improvements.
Infrastructure is the main impediment to growth. The government is
working toward developing stronger public-private partnerships for
electricity and roads.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$296.1 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$166.8 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6.4% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$2,100 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 17.7%
industry: 52.6%
services: 29.8% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

50.13 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 70%
industry: 10%
services: 20% (1999 est.)


Unemployment rate:

4.9% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

70% (2007 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 1.9%
highest 10%: 33.2% (2003)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

43.7 (2003)


Investment (gross fixed):

23.7% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $19.43 billion
expenditures: $20.36 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

14.4% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

5.4% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

9.5% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

16.94% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$21.72 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$19.07 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$16.15 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

cocoa, peanuts, palm oil, corn, rice, sorghum, millet, cassava
(tapioca), yams, rubber; cattle, sheep, goats, pigs; timber; fish


Industries:

crude oil, coal, tin, columbite; palm oil, peanuts, cotton, rubber,
wood; hides and skins, textiles, cement and other construction
materials, food products, footwear, chemicals, fertilizer, printing,
ceramics, steel, small commercial ship construction and repair


Industrial production growth rate:

3.2% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

22.11 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

15.85 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 61.9%
hydro: 38.1%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

2.352 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

312,000 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

2.473 million bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

154,300 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

36.22 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

34.1 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

12.9 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

21.2 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

5.21 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$2.514 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$61.79 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

petroleum and petroleum products 95%, cocoa, rubber


Exports - partners:

US 51.6%, Brazil 8.9%, Spain 7.7% (2007)


Imports:

$38.5 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery, chemicals, transport equipment, manufactured goods, food
and live animals


Imports - partners:

China 10.6%, Netherlands 7.9%, US 7.8%, South Korea 6.6%, UK 5.7%,
France 4.3%, Brazil 4.2%, Germany 4.1% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$6.437 billion (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$51.33 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$8.007 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$33.64 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$12.63 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$32.82 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

naira (NGN)


Currency code:

NGN


Exchange rates:

nairas (NGN) per US dollar - 127.46 (2007), 127.38 (2006), 132.59
(2005), 132.89 (2004), 129.22 (2003)


Communications
Nigeria



Telephones - main lines in use:

1.58 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

40.395 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: further expansion and modernization of the
fixed-line telephone network is needed
domestic: the addition of a second fixed-line provider in 2002
resulted in faster growth but subscribership remains only about 1
per 100 persons; wireless telephony has grown rapidly, in part
responding to the shortcomings of the fixed-line network; multiple
service providers operate nationally; mobile-cellular teledensity
reached 30 per 100 persons in 2007
international: country code - 234; landing point for the SAT-3/WASC
fiber-optic submarine cable that provides connectivity to Europe and
Asia; satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (2 Atlantic Ocean and 1
Indian Ocean) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 83, FM 36, shortwave 11 (2001)


Radios:

23.5 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

3 (the government controls 2 of the broadcasting stations and 15
repeater stations) (2001)


Televisions:

6.9 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.ng


Internet hosts:

1,048 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

11 (2000)


Internet users:

10 million (2007)


Transportation
Nigeria



Airports:

70 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 36
over 3,047 m: 6
2,438 to 3,047 m: 12
1,524 to 2,437 m: 10
914 to 1,523 m: 6
under 914 m: 2 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 34
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 14
under 914 m: 19 (2007)


Heliports:

2 (2007)


Pipelines:

condensate 124 km; gas 3,071 km; liquid petroleum gas 156 km; oil
4,347 km; refined products 3,949 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 3,505 km
narrow gauge: 3,505 km 1.067-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 193,200 km
paved: 28,980 km
unpaved: 164,220 km (2004)


Waterways:

8,600 km (Niger and Benue rivers and smaller rivers and creeks)
(2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 68
by type: cargo 4, chemical tanker 12, combination ore/oil 1,
liquefied gas 2, passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 46, specialized
tanker 2
foreign-owned: 3 (Japan 1, South Africa 1, Spain 1)
registered in other countries: 34 (Bahamas 2, Bermuda 11, Cook
Islands 1, Georgia 1, Italy 1, Liberia 2, Panama 10, Poland 1,
Seychelles 1, Sierra Leone 1, unknown 3) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Bonny Inshore Terminal, Calabar, Lagos


Transportation - note:

the International Maritime Bureau reports the territorial and
offshore waters in the Niger Delta and Gulf of Guinea as high risk
for piracy and armed robbery against ships; numerous commercial
vessels have been attacked and hijacked both at anchor and while
underway; crews have been robbed and stores or cargoes stolen


Military
Nigeria



Military branches:

Nigerian Armed Forces: Army, Navy, Air Force (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service (2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 31,929,204
females age 16-49: 30,638,979 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 18,556,755
females age 16-49: 17,288,225 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 1,663,025
female: 1,585,224 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.5% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Nigeria



Disputes - international:

Joint Border Commission with Cameroon reviewed 2002 ICJ ruling on
the entire boundary and bilaterally resolved differences, including
June 2006 Greentree Agreement that immediately cedes sovereignty of
the Bakassi Peninsula to Cameroon with a phase-out of Nigerian
control within two years while resolving patriation issues; the ICJ
ruled on an equidistance settlement of Cameroon-Equatorial
Guinea-Nigeria maritime boundary in the Gulf of Guinea, but
imprecisely defined coordinates in the ICJ decision and a
sovereignty dispute between Equatorial Guinea and Cameroon over an
island at the mouth of the Ntem River all contribute to the delay in
implementation; only Nigeria and Cameroon have heeded the Lake Chad
Commission's admonition to ratify the delimitation treaty which also
includes the Chad-Niger and Niger-Nigeria boundaries


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 5,778 (Liberia)
IDPs: undetermined (communal violence between Christians and Muslims
since President OBASANJO's election in 1999; displacement is mostly
short-term) (2007)


Illicit drugs:

a transit point for heroin and cocaine intended for European, East
Asian, and North American markets; consumer of amphetamines; safe
haven for Nigerian narcotraffickers operating worldwide; major
money-laundering center; massive corruption and criminal activity;
Nigeria has improved some anti-money-laundering controls, resulting
in its removal from the Financial Action Task Force's (FATF's)
Noncooperative Countries and Territories List in June 2006;
Nigeria's anti-money-laundering regime continues to be monitored by
FATF



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Niue

Introduction
Niue



Background:

Niue's remoteness, as well as cultural and linguistic differences
between its Polynesian inhabitants and those of the rest of the Cook
Islands, have caused it to be separately administered. The
population of the island continues to drop (from a peak of 5,200 in
1966 to an estimated 1,444 in 2008), with substantial emigration to
New Zealand, 2,400 km to the southwest.


Geography
Niue



Location:

Oceania, island in the South Pacific Ocean, east of Tonga


Geographic coordinates:

19 02 S, 169 52 W


Map references:

Oceania


Area:

total: 260 sq km
land: 260 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

1.5 times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

64 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; modified by southeast trade winds


Terrain:

steep limestone cliffs along coast, central plateau


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: unnamed location near Mutalau settlement 68 m


Natural resources:

fish, arable land


Land use:

arable land: 11.54%
permanent crops: 15.38%
other: 73.08% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

typhoons


Environment - current issues:

increasing attention to conservationist practices to counter loss of
soil fertility from traditional slash and burn agriculture


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Law of the Sea
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

one of world's largest coral islands


People
Niue



Population:

1,444 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: NA
15-64 years: NA
65 years and over: NA


Population growth rate:

-0.032% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Death rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

NA


Infant mortality rate:

total: NA
male: NA
female: NA (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: NA
male: NA
female: NA (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

NA (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Niuean(s)
adjective: Niuean


Ethnic groups:

Niuen 78.2%, Pacific islander 10.2%, European 4.5%, mixed 3.9%,
Asian 0.2%, unspecified 3% (2001 census)


Religions:

Ekalesia Niue (Niuean Church - a Protestant church closely related
to the London Missionary Society) 61.1%, Latter-Day Saints 8.8%,
Roman Catholic 7.2%, Jehovah's Witnesses 2.4%, Seventh-Day Adventist
1.4%, other 8.4%, unspecified 8.7%, none 1.9% (2001 census)


Languages:

Niuean, a Polynesian language closely related to Tongan and Samoan;
English


Literacy:

definition: NA
total population: 95%
male: NA
female: NA


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 12 years
male: 12 years
female: 12 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Niue



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Niue
note: pronounciation falls between nyu-way and new-way, but not like
new-wee
former: Savage Island


Dependency status:

self-governing in free association with New Zealand since 1974; Niue
fully responsible for internal affairs; New Zealand retains
responsibility for external affairs and defense; however, these
responsibilities confer no rights of control and are only exercised
at the request of the Government of Niue


Government type:

self-governing parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Alofi
geographic coordinates: 19 01 S, 169 55 W
time difference: UTC-11 (6 hours behind Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

none; note - there are no first-order administrative divisions as
defined by the US Government, but there are 14 villages at the
second order


Independence:

on 19 October 1974, Niue became a self-governing parliamentary
government in free association with New Zealand


National holiday:

Waitangi Day (Treaty of Waitangi established British sovereignty
over New Zealand), 6 February (1840)


Constitution:

19 October 1974 (Niue Constitution Act)


Legal system:

English common law; note - Niue is self-governing, with the power to
make its own laws


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by Governor General of New Zealand Anand SATYANAND
(since 23 August 2006); the UK and New Zealand are represented by
New Zealand High Commissioner John BRYAN (since May 2000)
head of government: Premier Toke TALAGI (since 18 June 2008)
cabinet: Cabinet consists of the premier and three ministers
elections: the monarch is hereditary; premier elected by the
Legislative Assembly for a three-year term; election last held 18
June 2008 (next to be held in 2011)
election results: Toke TALAGI defeats incumbent Young VIVIAN in
Legislative Assembly vote; Toke TALAGI - 14, Young VIVIAN - 5


Legislative branch:

unicameral Legislative Assembly (20 seats; members elected by
popular vote to serve three-year terms; six elected from a common
roll and 14 are village representatives)
elections: last held 7 June 2008 (next to be held in 2011)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - 20
independents


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court of New Zealand; High Court of Niue


Political parties and leaders:

Alliance of Independents or AI; Niue People's Action Party or NPP
[Young VIVIAN]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

ACP, FAO, IFAD, OPCW, PIF, Sparteca, SPC, UNESCO, UPU, WHO, WMO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (self-governing territory in free association with New Zealand)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (self-governing territory in free association with New Zealand)


Flag description:

yellow with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant; the
flag of the UK bears five yellow five-pointed stars - a large star
on a blue disk in the center and a smaller star on each arm of the
bold red cross


Economy
Niue



Economy - overview:

The economy suffers from the typical Pacific island problems of
geographic isolation, few resources, and a small population.
Government expenditures regularly exceed revenues, and the shortfall
is made up by critically needed grants from New Zealand that are
used to pay wages to public employees. Niue has cut government
expenditures by reducing the public service by almost half. The
agricultural sector consists mainly of subsistence gardening,
although some cash crops are grown for export. Industry consists
primarily of small factories to process passion fruit, lime oil,
honey, and coconut cream. The sale of postage stamps to foreign
collectors is an important source of revenue. The island in recent
years has suffered a serious loss of population because of
emigration to New Zealand. Efforts to increase GDP include the
promotion of tourism and a financial services industry, although the
International Banking Repeal Act of 2002 resulted in the termination
of all offshore banking licenses. Economic aid from New Zealand in
2002 was US$2.6 million. Niue suffered a devastating typhoon in
January 2004, which decimated nascent economic programs. While in
the process of rebuilding, Niue has been dependent on foreign aid.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$7.6 million (2000 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$10.01 million (2003)


GDP - real growth rate:

6.2% (2003 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$5,800 (2003 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 23.5%
industry: 26.9%
services: 49.5% (2003)


Labor force:

663 (2001)


Labor force - by occupation:

note: most work on family plantations; paid work exists only in
government service, small industry, and the Niue Development Board


Unemployment rate:

12% (2001)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $15.07 million
expenditures: $16.33 million (FY0405)


Fiscal year:

1 April - 31 March


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

4% (2005)


Agriculture - products:

coconuts, passion fruit, honey, limes, taro, yams, cassava
(tapioca), sweet potatoes; pigs, poultry, beef cattle


Industries:

tourism, handicrafts, food processing


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

4 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

3.72 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

20 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

26.57 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Exports:

$201,400 (2004)


Exports - commodities:

canned coconut cream, copra, honey, vanilla, passion fruit products,
pawpaws, root crops, limes, footballs, stamps, handicrafts


Exports - partners:

New Zealand mainly, Fiji, Cook Islands, Australia (2006)


Imports:

$9.038 million (2004)


Imports - commodities:

food, live animals, manufactured goods, machinery, fuels,
lubricants, chemicals, drugs


Imports - partners:

New Zealand mainly, Fiji, Japan, Samoa, Australia, US (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$2.6 million from New Zealand (2002)


Debt - external:

$418,000 (2002 est.)


Currency (code):

New Zealand dollar (NZD)


Currency code:

NZD


Exchange rates:

New Zealand dollars (NZD) per US dollar - 1.3811 (2007), 1.5408
(2006), 1.4203 (2005), 1.5087 (2004), 1.7221 (2003)


Communications
Niue



Telephones - main lines in use:

1,100 (2002 est.)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

400 (2002)


Telephone system:

domestic: single-line telephone system connects all villages on
island
international: country code - 683 (2001)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 0 (1998)


Radios:

1,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (1997)


Televisions:

NA


Internet country code:

.nu


Internet hosts:

382,599 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

900 (2002)


Transportation
Niue



Airports:

1 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 120 km
paved: 120 km (2008)


Ports and terminals:

none; offshore anchorage only


Military
Niue



Military branches:

no regular indigenous military forces; Police Force


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of New Zealand


Transnational Issues
Niue



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Norfolk Island

Introduction
Norfolk Island



Background:

Two British attempts at establishing the island as a penal colony
(1788-1814 and 1825-55) were ultimately abandoned. In 1856, the
island was resettled by Pitcairn Islanders, descendants of the
Bounty mutineers and their Tahitian companions.


Geography
Norfolk Island



Location:

Oceania, island in the South Pacific Ocean, east of Australia


Geographic coordinates:

29 02 S, 167 57 E


Map references:

Oceania


Area:

total: 34.6 sq km
land: 34.6 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

about 0.2 times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

32 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm


Climate:

subtropical; mild, little seasonal temperature variation


Terrain:

volcanic formation with mostly rolling plains


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: Mount Bates 319 m


Natural resources:

fish


Land use:

arable land: 0%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 100% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

typhoons (especially May to July)


Environment - current issues:

NA


Geography - note:

most of the 32 km coastline consists of almost inaccessible cliffs,
but the land slopes down to the sea in one small southern area on
Sydney Bay, where the capital of Kingston is situated


People
Norfolk Island



Population:

2,128 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 20.2%
15-64 years: 63.9%
65 years and over: 15.9% (2007 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.006% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Death rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

NA


Infant mortality rate:

total: NA
male: NA
female: NA (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: NA
male: NA
female: NA (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

NA (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Norfolk Islander(s)
adjective: Norfolk Islander(s)


Ethnic groups:

descendants of the Bounty mutineers, Australian, New Zealander,
Polynesian


Religions:

Anglican 31.8%, Roman Catholic 11.5%, Uniting Church in Australia
10.6%, Seventh-Day Adventist 3.2%, other Christian 5.6%, none 19.9%,
unspecified 16.6% (2006 census)


Languages:

English (official), Norfolk - a mixture of 18th century English and
ancient Tahitian


Literacy:

NA


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Norfolk Island



Country name:

conventional long form: Territory of Norfolk Island
conventional short form: Norfolk Island


Dependency status:

self governing territory of Australia; administered from Canberra by
the Australian Attorney-General's Department


Government type:

NA


Capital:

name: Kingston
geographic coordinates: 29 03 S, 167 58 E
time difference: UTC+11.5 (16.5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

none (territory of Australia)


Independence:

none (territory of Australia)


National holiday:

Bounty Day (commemorates the arrival of Pitcairn Islanders), 8 June
(1856)


Constitution:

Norfolk Island Act of 1979, as amended in 2005


Legal system:

based on the laws of Australia, local ordinances and acts; English
common law applies in matters not covered by either Australian or
Norfolk Island law


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by the Australian governor general
head of government: Acting Administrator Owen WALSH (since October
2007)
cabinet: Executive Council is made up of four of the nine members of
the Legislative Assembly; the council devises government policy and
acts as an advisor to the administrator
elections: the monarch is hereditary; administrator appointed by the
governor general of Australia and represents the monarch and
Australia


Legislative branch:

unicameral Legislative Assembly (9 seats; members elected by
electors who have nine equal votes each but only four votes can be
given to any one candidate; to serve three-year terms)
elections: last held 21 March 2007 (next to be held by 28 March 2010)
election results: seats - independents 9 (note - no political
parties)


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court; Court of Petty Sessions


Political parties and leaders:

none


Political pressure groups and leaders:

none


International organization participation:

UPU


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (territory of Australia)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (territory of Australia)


Flag description:

three vertical bands of green (hoist side), white, and green with a
large green Norfolk Island pine tree centered in the slightly wider
white band


Economy
Norfolk Island



Economy - overview:

Tourism, the primary economic activity, has steadily increased over
the years and has brought a level of prosperity unusual among
inhabitants of the Pacific islands. The agricultural sector has
become self-sufficient in the production of beef, poultry, and eggs.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$NA


Labor force:

NA


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 10%
industry and services: 90%


Budget:

revenues: $4.6 million
expenditures: $4.8 million (FY99/00)


Fiscal year:

1 July - 30 June


Agriculture - products:

Norfolk Island pine seed, Kentia palm seed, cereals, vegetables,
fruit; cattle, poultry


Industries:

tourism, light industry, ready mixed concrete


Electricity - production:

NA kWh


Electricity - consumption:

NA kWh


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 0%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2002)


Exports:

$1.5 million f.o.b. (FY91/92)


Exports - commodities:

postage stamps, seeds of the Norfolk Island pine and Kentia palm,
small quantities of avocados


Exports - partners:

Australia, other Pacific island countries, NZ, Asia, Europe (2006)


Imports:

$17.9 million c.i.f. (FY91/92)


Imports - commodities:

NA


Imports - partners:

Australia, other Pacific island countries, NZ, Asia, Europe (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$NA


Debt - external:

$NA


Currency (code):

Australian dollar (AUD)


Currency code:

AUD


Exchange rates:

Australian dollars (AUD) per US dollar - 1.2137 (2007), 1.3285
(2006), 1.3095 (2005), 1.3598 (2004), 1.5419 (2003)


Communications
Norfolk Island



Telephones - main lines in use:

2,532; note - a mix of analog (2500) and digital (32) circuits (2004)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

0; note - proposed cellular service disallowed in August 2002 island
referendum (2002)


Telephone system:

general assessment: adequate
domestic: free local calls
international: country code - 672; undersea coaxial cable links with
Australia and New Zealand; satellite earth station - 1


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 3, shortwave 0 (2005)


Radios:

2,500 (1996)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (local programming station plus 2 repeaters that air Australian
programs by satellite) (2005)


Televisions:

1,200 (1996)


Internet country code:

.nf


Internet hosts:

51 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

2 (2000)


Internet users:

700 (2002 est.)


Transportation
Norfolk Island



Airports:

1 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 80 km
paved: 53 km
unpaved: 27 km (2008)


Ports and terminals:

none; loading jetties at Kingston and Cascade


Military
Norfolk Island



Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of Australia


Transnational Issues
Norfolk Island



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Northern Mariana Islands

Introduction
Northern Mariana Islands



Background:

Under US administration as part of the UN Trust Territory of the
Pacific, the people of the Northern Mariana Islands decided in the
1970s not to seek independence but instead to forge closer links
with the US. Negotiations for territorial status began in 1972. A
covenant to establish a commonwealth in political union with the US
was approved in 1975, and came into force on 24 March 1976. A new
government and constitution went into effect in 1978.


Geography
Northern Mariana Islands



Location:

Oceania, islands in the North Pacific Ocean, about three-quarters of
the way from Hawaii to the Philippines


Geographic coordinates:

15 12 N, 145 45 E


Map references:

Oceania


Area:

total: 477 sq km
land: 477 sq km
water: 0 sq km
note: includes 14 islands including Saipan, Rota, and Tinian


Area - comparative:

2.5 times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

1,482 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical marine; moderated by northeast trade winds, little seasonal
temperature variation; dry season December to June, rainy season
July to October


Terrain:

southern islands are limestone with level terraces and fringing
coral reefs; northern islands are volcanic


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: unnamed location on Agrihan 965 m


Natural resources:

arable land, fish


Land use:

arable land: 13.04%
permanent crops: 4.35%
other: 82.61% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

active volcanoes on Pagan and Agrihan; typhoons (especially August
to November)


Environment - current issues:

contamination of groundwater on Saipan may contribute to disease;
clean-up of landfill; protection of endangered species conflicts
with development


Geography - note:

strategic location in the North Pacific Ocean


People
Northern Mariana Islands



Population:

86,616 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 18.4% (male 8,342/female 7,594)
15-64 years: 79.9% (male 27,996/female 41,245)
65 years and over: 1.7% (male 740/female 699) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 29.9 years
male: 32 years
female: 28.9 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.377% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

19.04 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

2.31 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

7.04 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.1 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.68 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 1.06 male(s)/female
total population: 0.75 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 6.72 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 6.68 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 6.76 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 76.5 years
male: 73.89 years
female: 79.26 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.18 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: NA (US citizens)
adjective: NA


Ethnic groups:

Asian 56.3%, Pacific islander 36.3%, Caucasian 1.8%, other 0.8%,
mixed 4.8% (2000 census)


Religions:

Christian (Roman Catholic majority, although traditional beliefs and
taboos may still be found)


Languages:

Philippine languages 24.4%, Chinese 23.4%, Chamorro 22.4%, English
10.8%, other Pacific island languages 9.5%, other 9.6% (2000 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 97%
male: 97%
female: 96% (1980 est.)


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Northern Mariana Islands



Country name:

conventional long form: Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands
conventional short form: Northern Mariana Islands
abbreviation: CNMI
former: Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, Mariana Islands
District


Dependency status:

commonwealth in political union with the US; federal funds to the
Commonwealth administered by the US Department of the Interior,
Office of Insular Affairs


Government type:

commonwealth; self-governing with locally elected governor,
lieutenant governor, and legislature


Capital:

name: Saipan
geographic coordinates: 15 12 N, 145 45 E
time difference: UTC+10 (15 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

none (commonwealth in political union with the US); there are no
first-order administrative divisions as defined by the US
Government, but there are four municipalities at the second order:
Northern Islands, Rota, Saipan, Tinian


Independence:

none (commonwealth in political union with the US)


National holiday:

Commonwealth Day, 8 January (1978)


Constitution:

Constitution of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands
effective 1 January 1978; Covenant Agreement fully effective 4
November 1986


Legal system:

based on US system, except for customs, wages, immigration laws, and
taxation


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal; indigenous inhabitants are US citizens
but do not vote in US presidential elections


Executive branch:

chief of state: President George W. BUSH of the US (since 20 January
2001); Vice President Richard B. CHENEY (since 20 January 2001)
head of government: Governor Benigno R. FITIAL (since 9 January
2006); Lieutenant Governor Timothy P. VILLAGOMEZ (since 9 January
2006)
cabinet: the cabinet consists of the heads of the 10 principal
departments under the executive branch who are appointed by the
governor with the advice and consent of the Senate; other members
include Special Assistants to the governor and office heads
appointed by and reporting directly to the governor
elections: under the US Constitution, residents of unincorporated
territories, such as the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
Islands, do not vote in elections for US president and vice
president; however, they may vote in the Democratic and Republican
presidential primary elections; governor and lieutenant governor
elected on the same ticket by popular vote for four-year terms
(eligible for a second term); election last held 5 November 2005
(next to be held in November 2009)
election results: Benigno R. FITIAL elected governor in a four-way
race; percent of vote - Benigno R. FITIAL 28.07%, Heinz HOFSCHNEIDER
27.34%, Juan BABAUTA 26.6%, Froilan TENORIO 17.99%


Legislative branch:

bicameral Legislature consists of the Senate (9 seats; members are
elected by popular vote to serve four-year staggered terms) and the
House of Representatives (20 seats; members are elected by popular
vote to serve two-year terms)
elections: Senate - last held 3 November 2007 (next to be held in
November 2009); House of Representatives - last held 3 November 2007
(next to be held in November 2009)
election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - Covenant Party 3, Republican Party 3, Democratic Party 1,
independents 2; House of Representatives - percent of vote by party
- NA; seats by party - Republican Party 12, Covenant Party 4,
Democratic Party 1, independents 3
note: the Northern Mariana Islands does not have a nonvoting
delegate in the US Congress; instead, it has an elected official or
"resident representative" in Washington, DC; seats by party -
Republican Party 1 (Pedro A. TENORIO)


Judicial branch:

Commonwealth Supreme Court; Superior Court; Federal District Court


Political parties and leaders:

Covenant Party [Benigno R. FITIAL]; Democratic Party [Dr. Carlos S.
CAMACHO]; Republican Party [Juan S. REYES]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

SPC, UPU


Flag description:

blue, with a white, five-pointed star superimposed on the gray
silhouette of a latte stone (a traditional foundation stone used in
building) in the center, surrounded by a wreath


Economy
Northern Mariana Islands



Economy - overview:

The economy benefits substantially from financial assistance from
the US. The rate of funding has declined as locally generated
government revenues have grown. The key tourist industry employs
about 50% of the work force and accounts for roughly one-fourth of
GDP. Japanese tourists predominate. Annual tourist entries have
exceeded one-half million in recent years, but financial
difficulties in Japan have caused a temporary slowdown. The
agricultural sector is made up of cattle ranches and small farms
producing coconuts, breadfruit, tomatoes, and melons. Garment
production is by far the most important industry with the employment
of 17,500 mostly Chinese workers and sizable shipments to the US
under duty and quota exemptions.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$900 million
note: GDP estimate includes US subsidy (2000 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$633.4 million (2000)


GDP - real growth rate:

NA%


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$12,500 (2000 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: NA%
industry: NA%
services: NA%


Labor force:

44,470 total indigenous labor force; 2,699 unemployed; 28,717
foreign workers (2000)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: NA%
industry: NA%
services: NA%


Unemployment rate:

3.9% (2001)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $193 million
expenditures: $223 million (FY01/02 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 October - 30 September


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

-0.8% (2000)


Agriculture - products:

coconuts, fruits, vegetables; cattle


Industries:

tourism, construction, garments, handicrafts


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

NA kWh


Electricity - consumption:

NA kWh


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Exports:

$NA


Exports - commodities:

garments


Exports - partners:

US (2006)


Imports:

$214.4 million (2001)


Imports - commodities:

food, construction equipment and materials, petroleum products


Imports - partners:

US, Japan (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

extensive funding from US


Debt - external:

$NA


Currency (code):

US dollar (USD)


Currency code:

USD


Exchange rates:

the US dollar is used


Communications
Northern Mariana Islands



Telephones - main lines in use:

21,000 (2000)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

20,500 (2004)


Telephone system:

general assessment: NA
domestic: NA
international: country code - 1-670; satellite earth stations - 2
Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 6, shortwave 1 (2005)


Radios:

NA


Television broadcast stations:

1 (on Saipan; in addition, 2 cable services on Saipan provide varied
programming from satellite networks) (2006)


Televisions:

NA


Internet country code:

.mp


Internet hosts:

6 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2001)


Internet users:

10,000 (2003)


Transportation
Northern Mariana Islands



Airports:

5 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 3
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 536 km (2007)


Ports and terminals:

Saipan, Tinian


Military
Northern Mariana Islands



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 572
female: 594 (2008 est.)


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of the US


Transnational Issues
Northern Mariana Islands



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Norway

Introduction
Norway



Background:

Two centuries of Viking raids into Europe tapered off following the
adoption of Christianity by King Olav TRYGGVASON in 994. Conversion
of the Norwegian kingdom occurred over the next several decades. In
1397, Norway was absorbed into a union with Denmark that lasted more
than four centuries. In 1814, Norwegians resisted the cession of
their country to Sweden and adopted a new constitution. Sweden then
invaded Norway but agreed to let Norway keep its constitution in
return for accepting the union under a Swedish king. Rising
nationalism throughout the 19th century led to a 1905 referendum
granting Norway independence. Although Norway remained neutral in
World War I, it suffered heavy losses to its shipping. Norway
proclaimed its neutrality at the outset of World War II, but was
nonetheless occupied for five years by Nazi Germany (1940-45). In
1949, neutrality was abandoned and Norway became a member of NATO.
Discovery of oil and gas in adjacent waters in the late 1960s
boosted Norway's economic fortunes. The current focus is on
containing spending on the extensive welfare system and planning for
the time when petroleum reserves are depleted. In referenda held in
1972 and 1994, Norway rejected joining the EU.


Geography
Norway



Location:

Northern Europe, bordering the North Sea and the North Atlantic
Ocean, west of Sweden


Geographic coordinates:

62 00 N, 10 00 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 323,802 sq km
land: 307,442 sq km
water: 16,360 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than New Mexico


Land boundaries:

total: 2,542 km
border countries: Finland 727 km, Sweden 1,619 km, Russia 196 km


Coastline:

25,148 km (includes mainland 2,650 km, as well as long fjords,
numerous small islands, and minor indentations 22,498 km; length of
island coastlines 58,133 km)


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 10 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm


Climate:

temperate along coast, modified by North Atlantic Current; colder
interior with increased precipitation and colder summers; rainy
year-round on west coast


Terrain:

glaciated; mostly high plateaus and rugged mountains broken by
fertile valleys; small, scattered plains; coastline deeply indented
by fjords; arctic tundra in north


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Norwegian Sea 0 m
highest point: Galdhopiggen 2,469 m


Natural resources:

petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, copper, lead, zinc, titanium,
pyrites, nickel, fish, timber, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 2.7%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 97.3% (2005)


Irrigated land:

1,270 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

381.4 cu km (2005)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 2.4 cu km/yr (23%/67%/10%)
per capita: 519 cu m/yr (1996)


Natural hazards:

rockslides, avalanches


Environment - current issues:

water pollution; acid rain damaging forests and adversely affecting
lakes, threatening fish stocks; air pollution from vehicle emissions


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83,
Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

about two-thirds mountains; some 50,000 islands off its much
indented coastline; strategic location adjacent to sea lanes and air
routes in North Atlantic; one of most rugged and longest coastlines
in the world


People
Norway



Population:

4,644,457 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 18.8% (male 446,146/female 426,166)
15-64 years: 66.2% (male 1,559,750/female 1,516,217)
65 years and over: 15% (male 297,175/female 399,003) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 39 years
male: 38.2 years
female: 39.9 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.35% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

11.12 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

9.33 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

1.71 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.74 male(s)/female
total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 3.61 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 3.96 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 3.24 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 79.81 years
male: 77.16 years
female: 82.6 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.78 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

2,100 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 100 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Norwegian(s)
adjective: Norwegian


Ethnic groups:

Norwegian 94.4% (includes Sami, about 60,000), other European 3.6%,
other 2% (2007 estimate)


Religions:

Church of Norway 85.7%, Pentecostal 1%, Roman Catholic 1%, other
Christian 2.4%, Muslim 1.8%, other 8.1% (2004)


Languages:

Bokmal Norwegian (official), Nynorsk Norwegian (official), small
Sami- and Finnish-speaking minorities; note - Sami is official in
six municipalities


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 100%
male: 100%
female: 100%


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 17 years
male: 17 years
female: 18 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

7.2% of GDP (2005)


Government
Norway



Country name:

conventional long form: Kingdom of Norway
conventional short form: Norway
local long form: Kongeriket Norge
local short form: Norge


Government type:

constitutional monarchy


Capital:

name: Oslo
geographic coordinates: 59 55 N, 10 45 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

19 counties (fylker, singular - fylke); Akershus, Aust-Agder,
Buskerud, Finnmark, Hedmark, Hordaland, More og Romsdal, Nordland,
Nord-Trondelag, Oppland, Oslo, Ostfold, Rogaland, Sogn og Fjordane,
Sor-Trondelag, Telemark, Troms, Vest-Agder, Vestfold


Dependent areas:

Bouvet Island, Jan Mayen, Svalbard


Independence:

7 June 1905 (Norway declared the union with Sweden dissolved); 26
October 1905 (Sweden agreed to the repeal of the union)


National holiday:

Constitution Day, 17 May (1814)


Constitution:

17 May 1814; amended many times


Legal system:

mixture of customary law, civil law system, and common law
traditions; Supreme Court renders advisory opinions to legislature
when asked; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: King HARALD V (since 17 January 1991); Heir Apparent
Crown Prince HAAKON MAGNUS, son of the monarch (born 20 July 1973)
head of government: Prime Minister Jens STOLTENBERG (since 17
October 2005)
cabinet: State Council appointed by the monarch with the approval of
parliament
elections: the monarch is hereditary; following parliamentary
elections, the leader of the majority party or the leader of the
majority coalition is usually appointed prime minister by the
monarch with the approval of the parliament


Legislative branch:

modified unicameral Parliament or Storting (169 seats; members are
elected by popular vote by proportional representation to serve
four-year terms); note - in 2009 the number of seats will change to
165
elections: last held 12 September 2005 (next to be held in September
2009)
election results: percent of vote by party - Labor Party 32.7%,
Progress Party 22.1%, Conservative Party 14.1%, Socialist Left Party
8.8%, Christian People's Party 6.8%, Center Party 6.5%, Liberal
Party 5.9%, other 3.1%; seats by party - Labor Party 61, Progress
Party 38, Conservative Party 23, Socialist Left Party 15, Christian
People's Party 11, Center Party 11, Liberal Party 10
note: for certain purposes, the parliament divides itself into two
chambers and elects one-fourth of its membership in the Lagting and
three-fourths of its membership in the Odelsting


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court or Hoyesterett (justices appointed by the monarch)


Political parties and leaders:

Center Party [Aslaug Marie HAGA]; Christian People's Party [Dagfinn
HOYBRATEN]; Conservative Party [Erna SOLBERG]; Labor Party [Jens
STOLTENBERG]; Liberal Party [Lars SPONHEIM]; Progress Party [Siv
JENSEN]; Socialist Left Party [Kristin HALVORSEN]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Norwegian Aid Committee or NORWAC; Norwegian Association of the
Disabled; Pure Salmon Campaign; The Consumer Council (consumer
advocacy group)
other: environmental groups; media; reform movements


International organization participation:

ADB (nonregional members), AfDB (nonregional members), Arctic
Council, Australia Group, BIS, CBSS, CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EFTA,
ESA, FAO, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD,
IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO,
ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM (guest), NATO, NC, NEA, NIB, NSG, OAS
(observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, Paris Club, PCA, Schengen Convention,
UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNITAR, UNMIS, UNRWA,
UNTSO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WEU (associate), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO,
ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Wegger C. STROMMEN
chancery: 2720 34th Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 333-6000
FAX: [1] (202) 337-0870
consulate(s) general: Houston, Minneapolis, New York, San Francisco


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Benson K. WHITNEY
embassy: Henrik Ibsens gate 48, 0244 Oslo; note - the embassy will
move to Huseby in the near future
mailing address: PSC 69, Box 1000, APO AE 09707
telephone: [47] (22) 44 85 50
FAX: [47] (22) 44 33 63, 56 27 51


Flag description:

red with a blue cross outlined in white that extends to the edges of
the flag; the vertical part of the cross is shifted to the hoist
side in the style of the Dannebrog (Danish flag)


Economy
Norway



Economy - overview:

The Norwegian economy is a prosperous bastion of welfare capitalism,
featuring a combination of free market activity and government
intervention. The government controls key areas, such as the vital
petroleum sector, through large-scale state enterprises. The country
is richly endowed with natural resources - petroleum, hydropower,
fish, forests, and minerals - and is highly dependent on its oil
production and international oil prices, with oil and gas accounting
for one-third of exports. Only Saudi Arabia and Russia export more
oil than Norway. Norway opted to stay out of the EU during a
referendum in November 1994; nonetheless, as a member of the
European Economic Area, it contributes sizably to the EU budget. The
government has moved ahead with privatization. Although Norwegian
oil production peaked in 2000, natural gas production is still
rising. Norwegians realize that once their gas production peaks they
will eventually face declining oil and gas revenues; accordingly,
Norway has been saving its oil-and-gas-boosted budget surpluses in a
Government Petroleum Fund, which is invested abroad and now is
valued at more than $250 billion. After lackluster growth of less
than 1% in 2002-03, GDP growth picked up to 3-5% in 2004-07, partly
due to higher oil prices. Norway's economy remains buoyant. Domestic
economic activity is, and will continue to be, the main driver of
growth, supported by high consumer confidence and strong investment
spending in the offshore oil and gas sector. Norway's record high
budget surplus and upswing in the labor market in 2007 highlight the
strength of its economic position going into 2008.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$246.6 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$391.5 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

3.7% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$53,300 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 2.4%
industry: 41.9%
services: 55.7% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

2.507 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 4%
industry: 22%
services: 74% (1995)


Unemployment rate:

2.5% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 3.9%
highest 10%: 23.4% (2000)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

28 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

20.8% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $226.3 billion
expenditures: $158.7 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

83.1% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

0.8% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

6.25% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

6.65% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

NA (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

NA (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

NA (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

barley, wheat, potatoes; pork, beef, veal, milk; fish


Industries:

petroleum and gas, food processing, shipbuilding, pulp and paper
products, metals, chemicals, timber, mining, textiles, fishing


Industrial production growth rate:

0.1% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

135 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

111.5 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

15.32 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

5.284 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 0.4%
hydro: 99.3%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0.4% (2001)


Oil - production:

2.565 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

224,500 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

2.714 million bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

92,650 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

6.865 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

92.6 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

6.5 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

86.1 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

2.241 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$64.07 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$140.3 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

petroleum and petroleum products, machinery and equipment, metals,
chemicals, ships, fish


Exports - partners:

UK 26.3%, Germany 12.3%, Netherlands 10.2%, France 8%, Sweden 6.5%,
US 6.2% (2007)


Imports:

$77.24 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, chemicals, metals, foodstuffs


Imports - partners:

Sweden 14.7%, Germany 13.6%, UK 6.9%, Denmark 6.4%, China 6.1%, US
4.8%, Canada 4.3% (2007)


Economic aid - donor:

ODA, $2.954 billion (2006)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$60.84 billion (2006 est.)


Debt - external:

$469.1 billion; note - Norway is a net external creditor (30 June
2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$62.63 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$126.1 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$191 billion (2005)


Currency (code):

Norwegian krone (NOK)


Currency code:

NOK


Exchange rates:

Norwegian kroner (NOK) per US dollar - 5.8396 (2007), 6.4117 (2006),
6.4425 (2005), 6.7408 (2004), 7.0802 (2003)


Communications
Norway



Telephones - main lines in use:

1.988 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

5.192 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: modern in all respects; one of the most advanced
telecommunications networks in Europe
domestic: Norway has a domestic satellite system; moreover, the
prevalence of rural areas encourages the wide use of cellular-mobile
systems instead of fixed-wire systems
international: country code - 47; 2 buried coaxial cable systems;
submarine cables provide links to other Nordic countries and Europe;
satellite earth stations - NA Eutelsat, NA Intelsat (Atlantic
Ocean), and 1 Inmarsat (Atlantic and Indian Ocean regions); note -
Norway shares the Inmarsat earth station with the other Nordic
countries (Denmark, Finland, Iceland, and Sweden) (1999)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 5, FM at least 650, shortwave 1 (1998)


Radios:

4.03 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

360 (plus 2,729 repeaters) (1995)


Televisions:

2.03 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.no


Internet hosts:

2.995 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

13 (2000)


Internet users:

3.8 million (2007)


Transportation
Norway



Airports:

98 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 67
over 3,047 m: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 12
1,524 to 2,437 m: 12
914 to 1,523 m: 13
under 914 m: 29 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 31
914 to 1,523 m: 6
under 914 m: 25 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Pipelines:

condensate 508 km; gas 6,529 km; oil 2,444 km; oil/gas/water 457 km
(2007)


Railways:

total: 4,114 km
standard gauge: 4,114 km 1.435-m gauge (2,552 km electrified) (2008)


Roadways:

total: 92,946 km
paved: 72,033 km (includes 664 km of expressways)
unpaved: 20,913 km (2007)


Waterways:

1,577 km (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 688
by type: bulk carrier 46, cargo 141, carrier 3, chemical tanker 137,
combination ore/oil 12, container 4, liquefied gas 65,
passenger/cargo 117, petroleum tanker 85, refrigerated cargo 14,
roll on/roll off 13, specialized tanker 1, vehicle carrier 50
foreign-owned: 199 (Canada 3, Canada 7, Chile 2, China 36, Denmark
25, Estonia 1, Finland 1, France 3, Germany 1, Greece 3, Hong Kong
20, Iceland 3, Italy 4, Japan 29, Lithuania 1, Malaysia 1, Monaco 5,
Poland 3, Saudi Arabia 3, Singapore 1, Sweden 34, UK 5, US 8)
registered in other countries: 923 (Antigua and Barbuda 8, Australia
1, Bahamas 189, Barbados 38, Belize 3, Bermuda 5, Brazil 5, Canada
3, Cayman Islands 1, China 1, Comoros 1, Cook Islands 5, Cyprus 18,
Denmark 1, Denmark 2, Dominica 1, Estonia 2, Faroe Islands 4,
Finland 3, France 5, Gibraltar 33, Hong Kong 40, Indonesia 1, Isle
of Man 20, Italy 2, South Korea 2, Liberia 40, Libya 1, Malta 93,
Marshall Islands 66, Netherlands 12, Netherlands Antilles 3, Panama
89, Philippines 10, Russia 2, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 13,
Singapore 143, Spain 5, Sweden 7, Tuvalu 1, UK 31, US 9, unknown 4)
(2008)


Ports and terminals:

Bergen, Borg Havn, Haugesund, Maaloy, Mongstad, Narvik, Oslo, Sture


Military
Norway



Military branches:

Norwegian Army (Haeren), Royal Norwegian Navy (Kongelige Norske
Sjoeforsvaret, RNoN; includes Coastal Rangers and Coast Guard
(Kystvakt)), Royal Norwegian Air Force (Kongelige Norske
Luftforsvaret, RNoAF), Home Guard (Heimevernet, HV) (2007)


Military service age and obligation:

18-44 years of age for male compulsory military service; 16 years of
age in wartime; 17 years of age for male volunteers; 18 years of age
for women; 12-month service obligation, in practice shortened to 8
to 9 months; although all males between ages of 18 and 44 are liable
for service, in practice they are seldom called to duty after age
30; reserve obligation to age 35-60; 16 years of age for volunteers
to the Home Guard, who serve 6-month duty tours (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,078,181
females age 16-49: 1,046,550 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 888,101
females age 16-49: 862,159 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 32,185
female: 30,683 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.9% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Norway



Disputes - international:

Norway asserts a territorial claim in Antarctica (Queen Maud Land
and its continental shelf); despite dialogue, Russia and Norway
continue to dispute their maritime limits in the Barents Sea and
Russia's fishing rights beyond Svalbard's territorial limits within
the Svalbard Treaty zone



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Oman

Introduction
Oman



Background:

The inhabitants of the area of Oman have long prospered on Indian
Ocean trade. In the late 18th century, a newly established sultanate
in Muscat signed the first in a series of friendship treaties with
Britain. Over time, Oman's dependence on British political and
military advisors increased, but it never became a British colony.
In 1970, QABOOS bin Said al-Said overthrew the restrictive rule of
his father; he has ruled as sultan ever since. His extensive
modernization program has opened the country to the outside world
while preserving the longstanding close ties with the UK. Oman's
moderate, independent foreign policy has sought to maintain good
relations with all Middle Eastern countries.


Geography
Oman



Location:

Middle East, bordering the Arabian Sea, Gulf of Oman, and Persian
Gulf, between Yemen and UAE


Geographic coordinates:

21 00 N, 57 00 E


Map references:

Middle East


Area:

total: 212,460 sq km
land: 212,460 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Kansas


Land boundaries:

total: 1,374 km
border countries: Saudi Arabia 676 km, UAE 410 km, Yemen 288 km


Coastline:

2,092 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

dry desert; hot, humid along coast; hot, dry interior; strong
southwest summer monsoon (May to September) in far south


Terrain:

central desert plain, rugged mountains in north and south


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Arabian Sea 0 m
highest point: Jabal Shams 2,980 m


Natural resources:

petroleum, copper, asbestos, some marble, limestone, chromium,
gypsum, natural gas


Land use:

arable land: 0.12%
permanent crops: 0.14%
other: 99.74% (2005)


Irrigated land:

720 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

1 cu km (1997)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 1.36 cu km/yr (7%/2%/90%)
per capita: 529 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

summer winds often raise large sandstorms and dust storms in
interior; periodic droughts


Environment - current issues:

rising soil salinity; beach pollution from oil spills; limited
natural fresh water resources


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

strategic location on Musandam Peninsula adjacent to Strait of
Hormuz, a vital transit point for world crude oil


People
Oman



Population:

3,311,640
note: includes 577,293 non-nationals (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 42.7% (male 721,796/female 692,699)
15-64 years: 54.5% (male 1,053,040/female 752,962)
65 years and over: 2.8% (male 51,290/female 39,853) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 18.9 years
male: 21.3 years
female: 16.6 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

3.19% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

35.26 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

3.68 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

0.33 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.4 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 1.29 male(s)/female
total population: 1.23 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 17.45 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 19.95 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 14.83 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 73.91 years
male: 71.64 years
female: 76.29 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

5.62 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

1,300 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 200 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Omani(s)
adjective: Omani


Ethnic groups:

Arab, Baluchi, South Asian (Indian, Pakistani, Sri Lankan,
Bangladeshi), African


Religions:

Ibadhi Muslim 75%, other (includes Sunni Muslim, Shi'a Muslim,
Hindu) 25%


Languages:

Arabic (official), English, Baluchi, Urdu, Indian dialects


Literacy:

definition: NA
total population: 81.4%
male: 86.8%
female: 73.5% (2003 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 12 years
male: 12 years
female: 11 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

4% of GDP (2006)


Government
Oman



Country name:

conventional long form: Sultanate of Oman
conventional short form: Oman
local long form: Saltanat Uman
local short form: Uman
former: Muscat and Oman


Government type:

monarchy


Capital:

name: Muscat
geographic coordinates: 23 37 N, 58 35 E
time difference: UTC+4 (9 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

5 regions (manatiq, singular - mintaqat) and 4 governorates*
(muhafazat, singular - muhafazat) Ad Dakhiliyah, Al Batinah, Al
Buraymi*, Al Wusta, Ash Sharqiyah, Az Zahirah, Masqat (Muscat)*,
Musandam*, Zufar (Dhofar)*


Independence:

1650 (expulsion of the Portuguese)


National holiday:

Birthday of Sultan QABOOS, 18 November (1940)


Constitution:

none; note - on 6 November 1996, Sultan QABOOS issued a royal decree
promulgating a basic law considered by the government to be a
constitution which, among other things, clarifies the royal
succession, provides for a prime minister, bars ministers from
holding interests in companies doing business with the government,
establishes a bicameral legislature, and guarantees basic civil
liberties for Omani citizens


Legal system:

based on English common law and Islamic law; ultimate appeal to the
monarch; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

21 years of age; universal; note - members of the military and
security forces are not allowed to vote


Executive branch:

chief of state: Sultan and Prime Minister QABOOS bin Said al-Said
(sultan since 23 July 1970 and prime minister since 23 July 1972);
note - the monarch is both the chief of state and head of government
head of government: Sultan and Prime Minister QABOOS bin Said
al-Said (sultan since 23 July 1970 and prime minister since 23 July
1972)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the monarch
elections: the monarch is hereditary


Legislative branch:

bicameral Majlis Oman consists of Majlis al-Dawla or upper chamber
(70 seats; members appointed by the monarch; has advisory powers
only) and Majlis al-Shura or lower chamber (84 seats; members
elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms; body has some
limited power to propose legislation, but otherwise has only
advisory powers)
elections: last held 27 October 2007 (next to be held in 2011)
election results: new candidates won 46 seats and 38 members of the
outgoing Majlis kept their positions; none of the 20 female
candidates were elected


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court
note: the nascent civil court system, administered by region, has
judges who practice secular and Sharia law


Political parties and leaders:

none


Political pressure groups and leaders:

none


International organization participation:

ABEDA, AFESD, AMF, FAO, G-77, GCC, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt (signatory),
IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IPU,
ISO, ITSO, ITU, LAS, MIGA, NAM, OIC, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Hunaina bint Sultan bin Ahmad
al-MUGHAIRI
chancery: 2535 Belmont Road, NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 387-1980
FAX: [1] (202) 745-4933


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Gary A. GRAPPO
embassy: Jameat A'Duwal Al Arabiya Street, Al Khuwair area, Muscat
mailing address: P. O. Box 202, P.C. 115, Madinat Sultan Qaboos,
Muscat
telephone: [968] 24-643-400
FAX: [968] 24-699771


Flag description:

three horizontal bands of white, red, and green of equal width with
a broad, vertical, red band on the hoist side; the national emblem
(a khanjar dagger in its sheath superimposed on two crossed swords
in scabbards) in white is centered near the top of the vertical band


Economy
Oman



Economy - overview:

Oman is a middle-income economy that is heavily dependent on
dwindling oil resources, but sustained high oil prices in recent
years have helped build Oman's budget and trade surpluses and
foreign reserves. Oman joined the World Trade Organization in
November 2000 and continues to liberalize its markets. It ratified a
free trade agreement with the US in September 2006, and, through the
Gulf Cooperation Council, seeks similar agreements with the EU,
China and Japan. As a result of its dwindling oil resources, Oman is
actively pursuing a development plan that focuses on
diversification, industrialization, and privatization, with the
objective of reducing the oil sector's contribution to GDP to 9
percent by 2020. Muscat is attempting to "Omanize" the labor force
by replacing foreign expatriate workers with local workers. Oman
actively seeks private foreign investors, especially in the
industrial, information technology, tourism, and higher education
fields. Industrial development plans focus on gas resources, metal
manufacturing, petrochemicals, and international transshipment ports.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$60.89 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$40.06 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

5.6% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$19,000 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 2.2%
industry: 38.2%
services: 59.6% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

920,000 (2002 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: NA%
industry: NA%
services: NA%


Unemployment rate:

15% (2004 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Investment (gross fixed):

20% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $14.02 billion
expenditures: $13.68 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

3.7% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

5.9% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

1.98% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

7.29% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$5.044 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$11.04 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$13.88 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

dates, limes, bananas, alfalfa, vegetables; camels, cattle; fish


Industries:

crude oil production and refining, natural and liquefied natural gas
(LNG) production; construction, cement, copper, steel, chemicals,
optic fiber


Industrial production growth rate:

3.2% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

13.58 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

10.53 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

714,300 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

69,100 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

722,000 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

15,440 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

5.5 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

24.1 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

11 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

13.1 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

849.5 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$4.866 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$23.1 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

petroleum, reexports, fish, metals, textiles


Exports - partners:

China 26.8%, South Korea 15.2%, Japan 14.3%, Thailand 10.4%, UAE
7.6%, US 4.3%, Iran 4.1% (2007)


Imports:

$11 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and transport equipment, manufactured goods, food,
livestock, lubricants


Imports - partners:

UAE 19.3%, Japan 17.6%, US 7.4%, Germany 5.2%, India 4.1% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$30.68 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$9.524 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$5.297 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$NA


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$16.16 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

Omani rial (OMR)


Currency code:

OMR


Exchange rates:

Omani rials (OMR) per US dollar - 0.3845 (2007), 0.3845 (2006),
0.3845 (2005), 0.3845 (2004), 0.3845 (2003)


Communications
Oman



Telephones - main lines in use:

268,100 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

2.5 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: modern system consisting of open-wire,
microwave, and radiotelephone communication stations; limited
coaxial cable
domestic: fixed-line phone service gradually being introduced to
remote villages using wireless local loop systems; fixed-line and
mobile-cellular subscribership both increasing; open-wire,
microwave, radiotelephone communications, and a domestic satellite
system with 8 earth stations
international: country code - 968; the Fiber-Optic Link Around the
Globe (FLAG) and the SEA-ME-WE-3 submarine cable provide
connectivity to Asia, the Middle East, and Europe; satellite earth
stations - 2 Intelsat (Indian Ocean), 1 Arabsat (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 3, FM 9, shortwave 2 (1999)


Radios:

1.4 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

13 (plus 25 repeaters) (1999)


Televisions:

1.6 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.om


Internet hosts:

4,785 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

340,000 (2007)


Transportation
Oman



Airports:

137 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 7
over 3,047 m: 4
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 130
over 3,047 m: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 8
1,524 to 2,437 m: 51
914 to 1,523 m: 35
under 914 m: 34 (2007)


Heliports:

2 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 4,126 km; oil 3,558 km (2007)


Roadways:

total: 42,300 km
paved: 16,500 km (includes 550 km of expressways)
unpaved: 25,800 km (2005)


Merchant marine:

total: 3
by type: chemical tanker 1, passenger 1, passenger/cargo 1
registered in other countries: 2 (Panama 2) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Mina' Qabus, Salalah


Military
Oman



Military branches:

Sultan's Armed Forces (SAF): Royal Army of Oman, Royal Navy of Oman,
Royal Air Force of Oman (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18-30 years of age for voluntary military service; no conscription
(2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 802,455
females age 16-49: 626,841 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 663,881
females age 16-49: 543,410 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 34,238
female: 33,139 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

11.4% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Oman



Disputes - international:

boundary agreement reportedly signed and ratified with UAE in 2003
for entire border, including Oman's Musandam Peninsula and Al Madhah
exclave, but details of the alignment have not been made public


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Oman is a destination country for men and women
primarily from Bangladesh, India, Sri Lanka, and Pakistan who
migrate willingly, but some of whom become victims of trafficking
when subjected to conditions of involuntary servitude as domestic
workers and laborers; mistreatment includes non-payment of wages,
restrictions on movement and withholding of passports, threats, and
physical or sexual abuse; Oman may also be a destination country for
women from Asia, Eastern Europe, and North Africa for commercial
sexual exploitation
tier rating: Tier 3 - Oman was rated as Tier 3 for the second
consecutive year because it did not report any law enforcement
efforts to prosecute and punish trafficking offenses in 2007 and
continues to lack victim protection services or a systematic
procedure to identify victims of trafficking (2008)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Pacific Ocean

Introduction
Pacific Ocean



Background:

The Pacific Ocean is the largest of the world's five oceans
(followed by the Atlantic Ocean, Indian Ocean, Southern Ocean, and
Arctic Ocean). Strategically important access waterways include the
La Perouse, Tsugaru, Tsushima, Taiwan, Singapore, and Torres
Straits. The decision by the International Hydrographic Organization
in the spring of 2000 to delimit a fifth ocean, the Southern Ocean,
removed the portion of the Pacific Ocean south of 60 degrees south.


Geography
Pacific Ocean



Location:

body of water between the Southern Ocean, Asia, Australia, and the
Western Hemisphere


Geographic coordinates:

0 00 N, 160 00 W


Map references:

Political Map of the World


Area:

total: 155.557 million sq km
note: includes Bali Sea, Bering Sea, Bering Strait, Coral Sea, East
China Sea, Gulf of Alaska, Gulf of Tonkin, Philippine Sea, Sea of
Japan, Sea of Okhotsk, South China Sea, Tasman Sea, and other
tributary water bodies


Area - comparative:

about 15 times the size of the US; covers about 28% of the global
surface; larger than the total land area of the world


Coastline:

135,663 km


Climate:

planetary air pressure systems and resultant wind patterns exhibit
remarkable uniformity in the south and east; trade winds and
westerly winds are well-developed patterns, modified by seasonal
fluctuations; tropical cyclones (hurricanes) may form south of
Mexico from June to October and affect Mexico and Central America;
continental influences cause climatic uniformity to be much less
pronounced in the eastern and western regions at the same latitude
in the North Pacific Ocean; the western Pacific is monsoonal - a
rainy season occurs during the summer months, when moisture-laden
winds blow from the ocean over the land, and a dry season during the
winter months, when dry winds blow from the Asian landmass back to
the ocean; tropical cyclones (typhoons) may strike southeast and
east Asia from May to December


Terrain:

surface currents in the northern Pacific are dominated by a
clockwise, warm-water gyre (broad circular system of currents) and
in the southern Pacific by a counterclockwise, cool-water gyre; in
the northern Pacific, sea ice forms in the Bering Sea and Sea of
Okhotsk in winter; in the southern Pacific, sea ice from Antarctica
reaches its northernmost extent in October; the ocean floor in the
eastern Pacific is dominated by the East Pacific Rise, while the
western Pacific is dissected by deep trenches, including the Mariana
Trench, which is the world's deepest


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Challenger Deep in the Mariana Trench -10,924 m
highest point: sea level 0 m


Natural resources:

oil and gas fields, polymetallic nodules, sand and gravel
aggregates, placer deposits, fish


Natural hazards:

surrounded by a zone of violent volcanic and earthquake activity
sometimes referred to as the "Pacific Ring of Fire"; subject to
tropical cyclones (typhoons) in southeast and east Asia from May to
December (most frequent from July to October); tropical cyclones
(hurricanes) may form south of Mexico and strike Central America and
Mexico from June to October (most common in August and September);
cyclical El Nino/La Nina phenomenon occurs in the equatorial
Pacific, influencing weather in the Western Hemisphere and the
western Pacific; ships subject to superstructure icing in extreme
north from October to May; persistent fog in the northern Pacific
can be a maritime hazard from June to December


Environment - current issues:

endangered marine species include the dugong, sea lion, sea otter,
seals, turtles, and whales; oil pollution in Philippine Sea and
South China Sea


Geography - note:

the major chokepoints are the Bering Strait, Panama Canal, Luzon
Strait, and the Singapore Strait; the Equator divides the Pacific
Ocean into the North Pacific Ocean and the South Pacific Ocean;
dotted with low coral islands and rugged volcanic islands in the
southwestern Pacific Ocean




Economy
Pacific Ocean



Economy - overview:

The Pacific Ocean is a major contributor to the world economy and
particularly to those nations its waters directly touch. It provides
low-cost sea transportation between East and West, extensive fishing
grounds, offshore oil and gas fields, minerals, and sand and gravel
for the construction industry. In 1996, over 60% of the world's fish
catch came from the Pacific Ocean. Exploitation of offshore oil and
gas reserves is playing an ever-increasing role in the energy
supplies of the US, Australia, NZ, China, and Peru. The high cost of
recovering offshore oil and gas, combined with the wide swings in
world prices for oil since 1985, has led to fluctuations in new
drillings.



Transportation
Pacific Ocean



Ports and terminals:

Bangkok (Thailand), Hong Kong (China), Kao-hsiung (Taiwan), Los
Angeles (US), Manila (Philippines), Pusan (South Korea), San
Francisco (US), Seattle (US), Shanghai (China), Singapore, Sydney
(Australia), Vladivostok (Russia), Wellington (NZ), Yokohama (Japan)


Transportation - note:

Inside Passage offers protected waters from southeast Alaska to
Puget Sound (Washington state); the International Maritime Bureau
reports the territorial waters of littoral states and offshore
waters in the South China Sea as high risk for piracy and armed
robbery against ships; numerous commercial vessels have been
attacked and hijacked both at anchor and while underway; hijacked
vessels are often disguised and cargoes stolen; crew and passengers
are often held for ransom, murdered, or cast adrift



Transnational Issues
Pacific Ocean



Disputes - international:

some maritime disputes (see littoral states)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Pakistan

Introduction
Pakistan



Background:

The Indus Valley civilization, one of the oldest in the world and
dating back at least 5,000 years, spread over much of what is
presently Pakistan. During the second millennium B.C., remnants of
this culture fused with the migrating Indo-Aryan peoples. The area
underwent successive invasions in subsequent centuries from the
Persians, Greeks, Scythians, Arabs (who brought Islam), Afghans, and
Turks. The Mughal Empire flourished in the 16th and 17th centuries;
the British came to dominate the region in the 18th century. The
separation in 1947 of British India into the Muslim state of
Pakistan (with West and East sections) and largely Hindu India was
never satisfactorily resolved, and India and Pakistan fought two
wars - in 1947-48 and 1965 - over the disputed Kashmir territory. A
third war between these countries in 1971 - in which India
capitalized on Islamabad's marginalization of Bengalis in Pakistani
politics - resulted in East Pakistan becoming the separate nation of
Bangladesh. In response to Indian nuclear weapons testing, Pakistan
conducted its own tests in 1998. The dispute over the state of
Kashmir is ongoing, but discussions and confidence-building measures
have led to decreased tensions since 2002. Mounting public
dissatisfaction with President MUSHARRAF, coupled with the
assassination of the prominent and popular political leader, Benazir
BHUTTO, in late 2007, and MUSHARRAF?s resignation in August 2008,
led to the September presidential election of Asif ZARDARI, BHUTTO?s
widower. Pakistani government and military leaders are struggling to
control Islamist militants, many of whom are located in the tribal
areas adjacent to the border with Afghanistan. The Pakistani
government is also faced with a deteriorating economy as foreign
exchange reserves decline, the currency depreciates, and the current
account deficit widens.


Geography
Pakistan



Location:

Southern Asia, bordering the Arabian Sea, between India on the east
and Iran and Afghanistan on the west and China in the north


Geographic coordinates:

30 00 N, 70 00 E


Map references:

Asia


Area:

total: 803,940 sq km
land: 778,720 sq km
water: 25,220 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly less than twice the size of California


Land boundaries:

total: 6,774 km
border countries: Afghanistan 2,430 km, China 523 km, India 2,912
km, Iran 909 km


Coastline:

1,046 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin


Climate:

mostly hot, dry desert; temperate in northwest; arctic in north


Terrain:

flat Indus plain in east; mountains in north and northwest;
Balochistan plateau in west


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
highest point: K2 (Mt. Godwin-Austen) 8,611 m


Natural resources:

land, extensive natural gas reserves, limited petroleum, poor
quality coal, iron ore, copper, salt, limestone


Land use:

arable land: 24.44%
permanent crops: 0.84%
other: 74.72% (2005)


Irrigated land:

182,300 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

233.8 cu km (2003)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 169.39 cu km/yr (2%/2%/96%)
per capita: 1,072 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

frequent earthquakes, occasionally severe especially in north and
west; flooding along the Indus after heavy rains (July and August)


Environment - current issues:

water pollution from raw sewage, industrial wastes, and agricultural
runoff; limited natural fresh water resources; most of the
population does not have access to potable water; deforestation;
soil erosion; desertification


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Marine Life Conservation


Geography - note:

controls Khyber Pass and Bolan Pass, traditional invasion routes
between Central Asia and the Indian Subcontinent


People
Pakistan



Population:

172,800,048 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 37.8% (male 33,617,953/female 31,741,258)
15-64 years: 58% (male 51,292,535/female 48,921,023)
65 years and over: 4.2% (male 3,408,749/female 3,818,533) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 20.5 years
male: 20.3 years
female: 20.6 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.999% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

28.35 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

7.85 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-0.51 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.89 male(s)/female
total population: 1.04 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 66.94 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 67.04 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 66.84 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 64.13 years
male: 63.07 years
female: 65.25 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

3.73 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

74,000 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

4,900 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A and E,
and typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria
animal contact disease: rabies
note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Pakistani(s)
adjective: Pakistani


Ethnic groups:

Punjabi 44.68%, Pashtun (Pathan) 15.42%, Sindhi 14.1%, Sariaki
8.38%, Muhagirs 7.57%, Balochi 3.57%, other 6.28%


Religions:

Muslim 95% (Sunni 75%, Shia 20%), other (includes Christian and
Hindu) 5%


Languages:

Punjabi 48%, Sindhi 12%, Siraiki (a Punjabi variant) 10%, Pashtu 8%,
Urdu (official) 8%, Balochi 3%, Hindko 2%, Brahui 1%, English
(official; lingua franca of Pakistani elite and most government
ministries), Burushaski and other 8%


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 49.9%
male: 63%
female: 36% (2005 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 7 years
male: 7 years
female: 6 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

2.6% of GDP (2006)


Government
Pakistan



Country name:

conventional long form: Islamic Republic of Pakistan
conventional short form: Pakistan
local long form: Jamhuryat Islami Pakistan
local short form: Pakistan
former: West Pakistan


Government type:

federal republic


Capital:

name: Islamabad
geographic coordinates: 33 42 N, 73 10 E
time difference: UTC+5 (10 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

4 provinces, 1 territory*, and 1 capital territory**; Balochistan,
Federally Administered Tribal Areas*, Islamabad Capital Territory**,
North-West Frontier Province, Punjab, Sindh
note: the Pakistani-administered portion of the disputed Jammu and
Kashmir region consists of two administrative entities: Azad Kashmir
and Northern Areas


Independence:

14 August 1947 (from British India)


National holiday:

Republic Day, 23 March (1956)


Constitution:

12 April 1973; suspended 5 July 1977, restored 30 December 1985;
suspended 15 October 1999, restored in stages in 2002; amended 31
December 2003; suspended 3 November 2007; restored on 15 December
2007


Legal system:

based on English common law with provisions to accommodate
Pakistan's status as an Islamic state; accepts compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal; joint electorates and reserved
parliamentary seats for women and non-Muslims


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Asif Ali ZARDARI (since 6 September 2008)
head of government: Prime Minister Syed Yousuf Raza GILANI (since 25
March 2008)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president upon the advice of the
prime minister
elections: the president is elected by secret ballot through an
Electoral College comprising the members of the Senate, National
Assembly, and the provincial assemblies for a five-year term;
election last held on 6 September 2008 (next to be held not later
than 2013); note - any person who is a Muslim and not less than 45
years of age and is qualified to be elected as a member of the
National Assembly can contest the presidential election; the prime
minister is selected by the National Assembly; election last held on
24 March 2008
election results: ZARDARI elected; ZARDARI 481 votes, SIDDIQUI 153
votes, HUSSAIN 44 votes; GILANI elected prime minister; GILANI 264
votes, Pervaiz ELAHI 42 votes; several abstentions


Legislative branch:

bicameral parliament or Majlis-e-Shoora consists of the Senate (100
seats; members indirectly elected by provincial assemblies and the
territories' representatives in the National Assembly to serve
six-year terms; one half are elected every three years) and the
National Assembly (342 seats; 272 members elected by popular vote;
60 seats reserved for women; 10 seats reserved for non-Muslims; to
serve five-year terms)
elections: Senate - last held in March 2006 (next to be held in
March 2009); National Assembly - last held 18 February 2008 (next to
be held in 2013)
election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - PML 38, MMA 18, PPPP 10, MQM 6, PML-N 4, PKMAP 3, ANP 2,
PPP-S 2, BNP-A 1, BNP-M 1, JWP 1, NA 1, PML-F 1, independents 12;
National Assembly - percent of votes by party - NA; seats by party -
PPPP 121, PML-N 91, PML 54, MQM 25, ANP 13, MMA 6, PML-F 5, BNP-A 1,
NPP 1, PPP-S 1, independents 18; note - as a result of the 27 June
2008 by-election, PML-N gained 3 seats and PPPP gained 2 seats)


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (justices appointed by the president); Federal Islamic
or Sharia Court


Political parties and leaders:

Awami National Party or ANP [Asfandyar Wali KHAN]; Balochistan
National Party-Hayee Group or BNP-H [Dr. Hayee BALOCH]; Balochistan
National Party-Awami or BNP-A [Moheem Khan BALOCH]; Balochistan
National Party-Mengal or BNP-M [Sardar Ataullah MENGAL]; Jamhoori
Watan Party or JWP; Jamiat Ahle Hadith or JAH [Sajid MIR]; Jamaat-i
Islami or JI [Qazi Hussain AHMED]; Jamiat Ulema-i Islam Fazlur
Rehman or JUI-F [Fazlur REHMAN]; Jamiat Ulema-i Islam Sami-ul HAQ or
JUI-S [Sami ul-HAQ]; Jamiat Ulema-i Pakistan or JUP [Shah Faridul
HAQ]; Muttahida Majlis-e Amal or MMA [Qazi Hussain AHMED]; Muttahida
Qaumi Movement or MQM [Altaf HUSSAIN]; National Alliance or NA
[Ghulam Mustapha JATOI] (merged with PML); National Peoples Party or
NPP; Pakhtun Khwa Milli Awami Party or PKMAP [Mahmood Khan
ACHAKZAI]; Pakistan Awami Tehrik or PAT [Tahir ul QADRI]; Pakistan
Muslim League-Functional or PML-F [Pir PAGARO]; Pakistan Muslim
League-Nawaz Sharif or PML-N [Nawaz SHARIF]; Pakistan Muslim League
or PML [Chaudhry Shujaat HUSSAIN]; Pakistan Peoples Party-SHERPAO or
PPP-S [Aftab Ahmed Khan SHERPAO]; Pakistan Peoples Party
Parliamentarians or PPPP [Bilawal Bhutto ZARDARI, chairman; Asif Ali
ZARDARI, co-chairman]; Pakistan Tehrik-e Insaaf or PTI [Imran KHAN];
Tehrik-i Islami [Allama Sajid NAQVI]
note: political alliances in Pakistan can shift frequently


Political pressure groups and leaders:

other: military (most important political force); ulema (clergy);
landowners; industrialists; small merchants


International organization participation:

ADB, ARF, C (reinstated 2004), CP, ECO, FAO, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURCAT,
MINURSO, MONUC, NAM, OAS (observer), OIC, OPCW, PCA, SAARC, SACEP,
SCO (observer), UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIL,
UNMIS, UNMIT, UNOCI, UNOMIG, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Husain HAQQANI
chancery: 3517 International Court, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 243-6500
FAX: [1] (202) 686-1544
consulate(s) general: Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, New
York, Sunnyvale (California)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Anne W. PATTERSON
embassy: Diplomatic Enclave, Ramna 5, Islamabad
mailing address: P. O. Box 1048, Unit 62200, APO AE 09812-2200
telephone: [92] (51) 208-0000
FAX: [92] (51) 2276427
consulate(s) general: Karachi
consulate(s): Lahore, Peshawar


Flag description:

green with a vertical white band (symbolizing the role of religious
minorities) on the hoist side; a large white crescent and star are
centered in the green field; the crescent, star, and color green are
traditional symbols of Islam


Economy
Pakistan



Economy - overview:

Pakistan, an impoverished and underdeveloped country, has suffered
from decades of internal political disputes, low levels of foreign
investment, and a costly, ongoing confrontation with neighboring
India. However, since 2001, IMF-approved reforms - most notably,
privatization of the banking sector - bolstered by generous foreign
assistance and renewed access to global markets, have generated
macroeconomic recovery. Pakistan has experienced GDP growth in the
6-8% range in 2004-07, spurred by gains in the industrial and
service sectors. Poverty levels have decreased by 10% since 2001,
and Islamabad has steadily raised development spending in recent
years, including a 52% real increase in the budget allocation for
development in FY07. In 2007 the fiscal deficit - a result of
chronically low tax collection and increased spending - exceeded
Islamabad's target of 4% of GDP. Inflation remains the top concern
among the public, jumping from 7.7% in 2007 to more than 11% during
the first few months of 2008, primarily because of rising world
commodity prices. The Pakistani rupee has depreciated since the
proclamation of emergency rule in November 2007.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$411.9 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$143.8 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

5.3% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$2,400 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 20.6%
industry: 26.6%
services: 52.8% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

48.23 million
note: extensive export of labor, mostly to the Middle East, and use
of child labor (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 42%
industry: 20%
services: 38% (2004 est.)


Unemployment rate:

5.6% plus substantial underemployment (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

24% (FY05/06 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 4%
highest 10%: 26.3% (2002)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

30.6 (2002)


Investment (gross fixed):

21.3% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $18.25 billion
expenditures: $24.69 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 July - 30 June


Public debt:

50.6% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

7.6% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

10% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$52.76 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$18.42 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$65.05 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

cotton, wheat, rice, sugarcane, fruits, vegetables; milk, beef,
mutton, eggs


Industries:

textiles and apparel, food processing, pharmaceuticals, construction
materials, paper products, fertilizer, shrimp


Industrial production growth rate:

8% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

93.26 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

68.4 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 68.8%
hydro: 28.2%
nuclear: 3%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

68,670 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

345,000 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

28,060 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

290,600 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

289.2 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

30.8 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

30.8 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

792.8 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$8.255 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$18.12 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

textiles (garments, bed linen, cotton cloth, yarn), rice, leather
goods, sports goods, chemicals, manufactures, carpets and rugs


Exports - partners:

US 18%, UAE 10.4%, Afghanistan 8.4%, China 5.2%, UK 4.7% (2007)


Imports:

$28.76 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

petroleum, petroleum products, machinery, plastics, transportation
equipment, edible oils, paper and paperboard, iron and steel, tea


Imports - partners:

China 16.2%, Saudi Arabia 10.9%, UAE 10.1%, US 5.7%, Kuwait 4.9%,
Japan 4.4% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$1.666 billion (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$15.69 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$38.8 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$20.01 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$982 million (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$45.52 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

Pakistani rupee (PKR)


Currency code:

PKR


Exchange rates:

Pakistani rupees (PKR) per US dollar - 60.6295 (2007), 60.35 (2006),
59.515 (2005), 58.258 (2004), 57.752 (2003)


Communications
Pakistan



Telephones - main lines in use:

4.546 million (2008)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

88.02 million (2008)


Telephone system:

general assessment: the telecommunications infrastructure is
improving dramatically with foreign and domestic investments into
fixed-line and mobile networks; mobile-cellular subscribership has
skyrocketed, reaching some 88 million in 2008, up from only about
300,000 in 2000; fiber systems are being constructed throughout the
country to aid in network growth; main line availability has risen
only marginally over the same period and there are still
difficulties getting main line service to rural areas
domestic: microwave radio relay, coaxial cable, fiber-optic cable,
cellular, and satellite networks
international: country code - 92; landing point for the SEA-ME-WE-3
and SEA-ME-WE-4 submarine cable systems that provide links to Asia,
the Middle East, and Europe; satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat
(1 Atlantic Ocean and 2 Indian Ocean); 3 operational international
gateway exchanges (1 at Karachi and 2 at Islamabad); microwave radio
relay to neighboring countries (2008)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 31, FM 68, shortwave NA (2006)


Radios:

13.5 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

20 (5 state-run channels and 15 privately-owned satellite channels)
(2006)


Televisions:

3.1 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.pk


Internet hosts:

197,264 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

30 (2000)


Internet users:

17.5 million (2007)


Transportation
Pakistan



Airports:

146 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 92
over 3,047 m: 16
2,438 to 3,047 m: 19
1,524 to 2,437 m: 29
914 to 1,523 m: 18
under 914 m: 10 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 54
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 16
914 to 1,523 m: 13
under 914 m: 24 (2007)


Heliports:

18 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 10,398 km; oil 2,076 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 8,163 km
broad gauge: 7,718 km 1.676-m gauge (293 km electrified)
narrow gauge: 445 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 259,758 km
paved: 162,879 km (includes 711 km of expressways)
unpaved: 96,879 km (2005)


Merchant marine:

total: 15
by type: bulk carrier 1, cargo 10, petroleum tanker 4
registered in other countries: 19 (Comoros 4, Malta 2, Marshall
Islands 1, Panama 9, Saint Kitts and Nevis 3) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Karachi, Port Muhammad Bin Qasim


Military
Pakistan



Military branches:

Army (includes National Guard), Navy (includes Marines and Maritime
Security Agency), Pakistan Air Force (Pakistan Fiza'ya) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

16 years of age for voluntary military service; soldiers cannot be
deployed for combat until age of 18; the Pakistani Air Force and
Pakistani Navy have inducted their first female pilots and sailors
(2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 42,633,765
females age 16-49: 40,114,017 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 32,453,913
females age 16-49: 31,369,057 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 2,062,065
female: 1,936,916 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

3% of GDP (2007 est.)


Transnational Issues
Pakistan



Disputes - international:

various talks and confidence-building measures cautiously have begun
to defuse tensions over Kashmir, particularly since the October 2005
earthquake in the region; Kashmir nevertheless remains the site of
the world's largest and most militarized territorial dispute with
portions under the de facto administration of China (Aksai Chin),
India (Jammu and Kashmir), and Pakistan (Azad Kashmir and Northern
Areas); UN Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan (UNMOGIP)
has maintained a small group of peacekeepers since 1949; India does
not recognize Pakistan's ceding historic Kashmir lands to China in
1964; India and Pakistan have maintained their 2004 cease fire in
Kashmir and initiated discussions on defusing the armed stand-off in
the Siachen glacier region; Pakistan protests India's fencing the
highly militarized Line of Control and construction of the Baglihar
Dam on the Chenab River in Jammu and Kashmir, which is part of the
larger dispute on water sharing of the Indus River and its
tributaries; to defuse tensions and prepare for discussions on a
maritime boundary, India and Pakistan seek technical resolution of
the disputed boundary in Sir Creek estuary at the mouth of the Rann
of Kutch in the Arabian Sea; Pakistani maps continue to show the
Junagadh claim in India's Gujarat State; by 2005, Pakistan, with UN
assistance, repatriated 2.3 million Afghan refugees leaving slightly
more than a million, many of whom remain at their own choosing;
Pakistan has proposed and Afghanistan protests construction of a
fence and laying of mines along portions of their porous border;
Pakistan has sent troops into remote tribal areas to monitor and
control the border with Afghanistan and to stem terrorist or other
illegal activities


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 1,043,984 (Afghanistan)
IDPs: undetermined (government strikes on Islamic militants in South
Waziristan); 34,000 (October 2005 earthquake; most of those
displaced returned to their home villages in the spring of 2006)
(2007)


Illicit drugs:

significant transit area for Afghan drugs, including heroin, opium,
morphine, and hashish, bound for Iran, Western markets, the Gulf
States, Africa, and Asia; financial crimes related to drug
trafficking, terrorism, corruption, and smuggling remain problems;
opium poppy cultivation estimated to be 2,300 hectares in 2007 with
600 of those hectares eradicated; federal and provincial authorities
continue to conduct anti-poppy campaigns that utilizes forced
eradication, fines, and arrests



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Palau

Introduction
Palau



Background:

After three decades as part of the UN Trust Territory of the Pacific
under US administration, this westernmost cluster of the Caroline
Islands opted for independence in 1978 rather than join the
Federated States of Micronesia. A Compact of Free Association with
the US was approved in 1986, but not ratified until 1993. It entered
into force the following year, when the islands gained independence.


Geography
Palau



Location:

Oceania, group of islands in the North Pacific Ocean, southeast of
the Philippines


Geographic coordinates:

7 30 N, 134 30 E


Map references:

Oceania


Area:

total: 458 sq km
land: 458 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly more than 2.5 times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

1,519 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 3 nm
exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; hot and humid; wet season May to November


Terrain:

varying geologically from the high, mountainous main island of
Babelthuap to low, coral islands usually fringed by large barrier
reefs


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: Mount Ngerchelchuus 242 m


Natural resources:

forests, minerals (especially gold), marine products, deep-seabed
minerals


Land use:

arable land: 8.7%
permanent crops: 4.35%
other: 86.95% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

typhoons (June to December)


Environment - current issues:

inadequate facilities for disposal of solid waste; threats to the
marine ecosystem from sand and coral dredging, illegal fishing
practices, and overfishing


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection,
Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

westernmost archipelago in the Caroline chain, consists of six
island groups totaling more than 300 islands; includes World War II
battleground of Beliliou (Peleliu) and world-famous rock islands


People
Palau



Population:

21,093 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 25.8% (male 2,797/female 2,637)
15-64 years: 69.4% (male 7,864/female 6,779)
65 years and over: 4.8% (male 482/female 534) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 32.3 years
male: 33.3 years
female: 31.3 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.157% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

17.4 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

6.73 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

0.9 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.16 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.9 male(s)/female
total population: 1.12 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 13.69 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 15.37 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 11.9 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 71 years
male: 67.82 years
female: 74.36 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.45 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Palauan(s)
adjective: Palauan


Ethnic groups:

Palauan (Micronesian with Malayan and Melanesian admixtures) 69.9%,
Filipino 15.3%, Chinese 4.9%, other Asian 2.4%, white 1.9%,
Carolinian 1.4%, other Micronesian 1.1%, other or unspecified 3.2%
(2000 census)


Religions:

Roman Catholic 41.6%, Protestant 23.3%, Modekngei 8.8% (indigenous
to Palau), Seventh-Day Adventist 5.3%, Jehovah's Witness 0.9%,
Latter-Day Saints 0.6%, other 3.1%, unspecified or none 16.4% (2000
census)


Languages:

Palauan 64.7% official in all islands except Sonsoral (Sonsoralese
and English are official), Tobi (Tobi and English are official), and
Angaur (Angaur, Japanese, and English are official), Filipino 13.5%,
English 9.4%, Chinese 5.7%, Carolinian 1.5%, Japanese 1.5%, other
Asian 2.3%, other languages 1.5% (2000 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 92%
male: 93%
female: 90% (1980 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 15 years
male: 14 years
female: 15 years (2000)


Education expenditures:

10.3% of GDP (2002)


Government
Palau



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Palau
conventional short form: Palau
local long form: Beluu er a Belau
local short form: Belau
former: Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, Palau District


Government type:

constitutional government in free association with the US; the
Compact of Free Association entered into force 1 October 1994


Capital:

name: Melekeok
geographic coordinates: 7 29 N, 134 38 E
time difference: UTC+9 (14 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

16 states; Aimeliik, Airai, Angaur, Hatohobei, Kayangel, Koror,
Melekeok, Ngaraard, Ngarchelong, Ngardmau, Ngatpang, Ngchesar,
Ngeremlengui, Ngiwal, Peleliu, Sonsorol


Independence:

1 October 1994 (from the US-administered UN trusteeship)


National holiday:

Constitution Day, 9 July (1979)


Constitution:

1 January 1981


Legal system:

based on Trust Territory laws, acts of the legislature, municipal,
common, and customary laws; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Tommy Esang REMENGESAU, Jr. (since 19
January 2001); Vice President Camsek CHIN (since 1 January 2005);
note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government
head of government: President Tommy Esang REMENGESAU, Jr. (since 19
January 2001); Vice President Camsek CHIN (since 1 January 2005)
cabinet: NA
elections: president and vice president elected on separate tickets
by popular vote for four-year terms (eligible for a second term);
election last held 4 November 2008 (next to be held in November 2012)
election results: Johnson TORIBIONG (51%) defeats Elias Camsek CHIN
(49%) for president; Kerai MARIUR elected vice president


Legislative branch:

bicameral National Congress or Olbiil Era Kelulau (OEK) consists of
the Senate (9 seats; members elected by popular vote on a population
basis to serve four-year terms) and the House of Delegates (16
seats; members elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
elections: Senate - last held 2 November 2004 (next to be held in
November 2008); House of Delegates - last held 2 November 2004 (next
to be held in November 2008)
election results: Senate - percent of vote - NA; seats -
independents 9; House of Delegates - percent of vote - NA; seats -
independents 16


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court; Court of Common Pleas; Land Court


Political parties and leaders:

none


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

ACP, ADB, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFC, IFRCS, IMF, IOC,
IPU, MIGA, OPCW, PIF, Sparteca, SPC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, WHO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Hersey KYOTA
chancery: 1700 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Suite 400, Washington, DC
20006
telephone: [1] (202) 452-6814
FAX: [1] (202) 452-6281
consulate(s) general: Honolulu
consulate(s): Tamuning (Guam)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Charge d'Affaires Mark BEZNER
embassy: Koror (no street address)
mailing address: P. O. Box 6028, Republic of Palau 96940
telephone: [680] 488-2920, 2990
FAX: [680] 488-2911


Flag description:

light blue with a large yellow disk (representing the moon) shifted
slightly to the hoist side


Economy
Palau



Economy - overview:

The economy consists primarily of tourism, subsistence agriculture,
and fishing. The government is the major employer of the work force
relying heavily on financial assistance from the US. The Compact of
Free Association with the US, entered into after the end of the UN
trusteeship on 1 October 1994, provided Palau with up to $700
million in US aid for the following 15 years in return for
furnishing military facilities. Business and tourist arrivals
numbered 63,000 in 2003. The population enjoys a per capita income
roughly 50% higher than that of the Philippines and much of
Micronesia. Long-run prospects for the key tourist sector have been
greatly bolstered by the expansion of air travel in the Pacific, the
rising prosperity of leading East Asian countries, and the
willingness of foreigners to finance infrastructure development.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$124.5 million
note: GDP estimates includes US subsidy (2004 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$145 million (2005)


GDP - real growth rate:

5.5% (2005 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$7,600 (2005 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 6.2%
industry: 12%
services: 81.8% (2003)


Labor force:

9,777 (2005)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 20%
industry: NA%
services: NA%


Unemployment rate:

4.2% (2005 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $72.07 million
expenditures: $72.43 million (FY04/05 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 October - 30 September


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.7% (2005 est.)


Agriculture - products:

coconuts, copra, cassava (tapioca), sweet potatoes; fish


Industries:

tourism, craft items (from shell, wood, pearls), construction,
garment making


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production by source:

NA


Current account balance:

$15.09 million (FY03/04)


Exports:

$5.882 million f.o.b. (2004 est.)


Exports - commodities:

shellfish, tuna, copra, garments


Exports - partners:

US, Japan, Singapore (2006)


Imports:

$107.3 million f.o.b. (2004 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, fuels, metals; foodstuffs


Imports - partners:

US, Singapore, Japan, South Korea (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$23.46 million (2005)


Debt - external:

$0 (FY99/00)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

US dollar (USD)


Currency code:

USD


Exchange rates:

the US dollar is used


Communications
Palau



Telephones - main lines in use:

6,700 (2002)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

1,000 (2002)


Telephone system:

general assessment: NA
domestic: NA
international: country code - 680; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 4, shortwave 1 (2001)


Radios:

12,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (cable) (2005)


Televisions:

11,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.pw


Internet hosts:

0 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2002)


Transportation
Palau



Airports:

3 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2 (2007)


Roadways:

note: estimated to have 60 km of roads as of 1996


Ports and terminals:

Koror


Military
Palau



Military branches:

no regular military forces; Palau National Police (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 5,973 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 4,397 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 179
female: 165 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

NA


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of the US; under a Compact of Free
Association between Palau and the US, the US military is granted
access to the islands for 50 years, but it has not stationed any
military forces there (2008)


Transnational Issues
Palau



Disputes - international:

maritime delineation negotiations continue with Philippines,
Indonesia



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Panama

Introduction
Panama



Background:

Explored and settled by the Spanish in the 16th century, Panama
broke with Spain in 1821 and joined a union of Colombia, Ecuador,
and Venezuela - named the Republic of Gran Colombia. When the latter
dissolved in 1830, Panama remained part of Colombia. With US
backing, Panama seceded from Colombia in 1903 and promptly signed a
treaty with the US allowing for the construction of a canal and US
sovereignty over a strip of land on either side of the structure
(the Panama Canal Zone). The Panama Canal was built by the US Army
Corps of Engineers between 1904 and 1914. In 1977, an agreement was
signed for the complete transfer of the Canal from the US to Panama
by the end of the century. Certain portions of the Zone and
increasing responsibility over the Canal were turned over in the
subsequent decades. With US help, dictator Manuel NORIEGA was
deposed in 1989. The entire Panama Canal, the area supporting the
Canal, and remaining US military bases were transferred to Panama by
the end of 1999. In October 2006, Panamanians approved an ambitious
plan to expand the Canal. The project, which began in 2007 and could
double the Canal's capacity, is expected to be completed in 2014-15.


Geography
Panama



Location:

Central America, bordering both the Caribbean Sea and the North
Pacific Ocean, between Colombia and Costa Rica


Geographic coordinates:

9 00 N, 80 00 W


Map references:

Central America and the Caribbean


Area:

total: 78,200 sq km
land: 75,990 sq km
water: 2,210 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than South Carolina


Land boundaries:

total: 555 km
border countries: Colombia 225 km, Costa Rica 330 km


Coastline:

2,490 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm or edge of continental margin


Climate:

tropical maritime; hot, humid, cloudy; prolonged rainy season (May
to January), short dry season (January to May)


Terrain:

interior mostly steep, rugged mountains and dissected, upland
plains; coastal areas largely plains and rolling hills


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: Volcan Baru 3,475 m


Natural resources:

copper, mahogany forests, shrimp, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 7.26%
permanent crops: 1.95%
other: 90.79% (2005)


Irrigated land:

430 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

148 cu km (2000)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.82 cu km/yr (67%/5%/28%)
per capita: 254 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

occasional severe storms and forest fires in the Darien area


Environment - current issues:

water pollution from agricultural runoff threatens fishery
resources; deforestation of tropical rain forest; land degradation
and soil erosion threatens siltation of Panama Canal; air pollution
in urban areas; mining threatens natural resources


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: Marine Life Conservation


Geography - note:

strategic location on eastern end of isthmus forming land bridge
connecting North and South America; controls Panama Canal that links
North Atlantic Ocean via Caribbean Sea with North Pacific Ocean


People
Panama



Population:

3,309,679 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 29.6% (male 499,254/female 479,242)
15-64 years: 63.8% (male 1,066,915/female 1,043,499)
65 years and over: 6.7% (male 102,937/female 117,832) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 26.7 years
male: 26.3 years
female: 27.1 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.544% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

20.68 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

4.71 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-0.53 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.04 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.87 male(s)/female
total population: 1.02 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 13.4 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 14.35 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 12.42 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 76.88 years
male: 74.08 years
female: 79.81 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.57 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.9% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

16,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 500 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: intermediate
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A
vectorborne disease: dengue fever and malaria
water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Panamanian(s)
adjective: Panamanian


Ethnic groups:

mestizo (mixed Amerindian and white) 70%, Amerindian and mixed (West
Indian) 14%, white 10%, Amerindian 6%


Religions:

Roman Catholic 85%, Protestant 15%


Languages:

Spanish (official), English 14%; note - many Panamanians bilingual


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 91.9%
male: 92.5%
female: 91.2% (2000 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 13 years
male: 13 years
female: 14 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

3.8% of GDP (2004)


Government
Panama



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Panama
conventional short form: Panama
local long form: Republica de Panama
local short form: Panama


Government type:

constitutional democracy


Capital:

name: Panama
geographic coordinates: 8 58 N, 79 32 W
time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard
Time)


Administrative divisions:

11 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia) and 1 territory*
(comarca); Bocas del Toro, Comarca Kuna Yala, Comarca Ngobe-Bugle,
Chiriqui, Cocle, Colon, Darien, Herrera, Los Santos, Panama, San
Blas*(Kuna Yala), and Veraguas


Independence:

3 November 1903 (from Colombia; became independent from Spain 28
November 1821)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 3 November (1903)


Constitution:

11 October 1972; major reforms adopted 1978, 1983, 1994, and 2004


Legal system:

based on civil law system; judicial review of legislative acts in
the Supreme Court of Justice; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal and compulsory


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Martin TORRIJOS Espino (since 1 September
2004); First Vice President Samuel LEWIS Navarro (since 1 September
2004); Second Vice President Ruben AROSEMENA Valdes (since 1
September 2004); note - the president is both the chief of state and
head of government
head of government: President Martin TORRIJOS Espino (since 1
September 2004); First Vice President Samuel LEWIS Navarro (since 1
September 2004); Second Vice President Ruben AROSEMENA Valdes (since
1 September 2004)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president
elections: president and vice presidents elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for five-year terms (not eligible for immediate
reelection; president and vice presidents must sit out two
additional terms (10 years) before becoming eligible for
reelection); election last held 2 May 2004 (next to be held on 3 May
2009); note - beginning in 2009, Panama will have only one vice
president
election results: Martin TORRIJOS Espino elected president; percent
of vote - Martin TORRIJOS Espino 47.5%, Guillermo ENDARA Galimany
30.6%, Jose Miguel ALEMAN 17%, Ricardo MARTINELLI 4.9%
note: government coalition - PRD (Democratic Revolutionary Party),
PP (Popular Party)


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly or Asamblea Nacional (78 seats; members
are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms); note - in
2009, the number of seats will change to 71
elections: last held 2 May 2004 (next to be held 3 May 2009)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
PRD 41, PA 17, PS 9, MOLIRENA 4, CD 3, PLN 3, PP 1
note: legislators from outlying rural districts are chosen on a
plurality basis while districts located in more populous towns and
cities elect multiple legislators by means of a proportion-based
formula


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court of Justice or Corte Suprema de Justicia (nine judges
appointed for 10-year terms); five superior courts; three courts of
appeal


Political parties and leaders:

Democratic Change or CD [Ricardo MARTINELLI]; Democratic
Revolutionary Party or PRD [Hugo GUIRAUD]; Nationalist Republican
Liberal Movement or MOLIRENA [Gisela CHUNG]; Panamenista Party or PA
[Juan Carlos VARELA] (formerly the Arnulfista Party); Patriotic
Union Party or PU (combination of the Liberal National Party or PLN
and the Solidarity Party or PS)[Jose Raul MULINO and Anibal
GALINDO]; Popular Party or PP [Rene ORILLAC] (formerly Christian
Democratic Party or PDC)


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Chamber of Commerce; National Civic Crusade; National Council of
Organized Workers or CONATO; National Council of Private Enterprise
or CONEP; National Union of Construction and Similar Workers
(SUNTRACS); Panamanian Association of Business Executives or APEDE;
Panamanian Industrialists Society or SIP; Workers Confederation of
the Republic of Panama or CTRP


International organization participation:

BCIE, CAN (observer), CSN (observer), FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD,
ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO,
Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES, LAIA
(observer), MIGA, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN, UN Security
Council (temporary), UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNWTO,
UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Federico HUMBERT Arias
chancery: 2862 McGill Terrace NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 483-1407
FAX: [1] (202) 483-8416
consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Honolulu, Houston, Miami, New
Orleans, New York, Philadelphia, San Diego, San Francisco, San Juan
(Puerto Rico), Tampa


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador William A. EATON
embassy: Edificio 783, Avenida Demetrio Basilio Lakas Panama,
Apartado Postal 0816-02561, Zona 5, Panama City
mailing address: American Embassy Panama, Unit 0945, APO AA 34002
telephone: [507] 207-7000
FAX: [507] 317-5568


Flag description:

divided into four, equal rectangles; the top quadrants are white
(hoist side) with a blue five-pointed star in the center and plain
red; the bottom quadrants are plain blue (hoist side) and white with
a red five-pointed star in the center


Economy
Panama



Economy - overview:

Panama's dollarized economy rests primarily on a well-developed
services sector that accounts for two-thirds of GDP. Services
include operating the Panama Canal, banking, the Colon Free Zone,
insurance, container ports, flagship registry, and tourism. Economic
growth will be bolstered by the Panama Canal expansion project that
began in 2007 and should be completed by 2014 at a cost of $5.3
billion (about 30% of current GDP). The expansion project will more
than double the Canal's capacity, enabling it to accommodate ships
that are now too large to transverse the transoceanic crossway and
should help to reduce the high unemployment rate. The government has
implemented tax reforms, as well as social security reforms, and
backs regional trade agreements and development of tourism. Not a
CAFTA signatory, Panama in December 2006 independently negotiated a
free trade agreement with the US, which, when implemented, will help
promote the country's economic growth.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$34.81 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$19.74 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

11.2% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$10,700 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 6.6%
industry: 16.4%
services: 77% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

1.362 million
note: shortage of skilled labor, but an oversupply of unskilled
labor (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 15%
industry: 18%
services: 67% (2006)


Unemployment rate:

6.4% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

37% (1999 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 0.7%
highest 10%: 43% (2003)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

56.1 (2003)


Investment (gross fixed):

20.2% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $5.505 billion
expenditures: $4.822 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

53% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

4.2% (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

8.25% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$3.054 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$14.26 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$17.4 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

bananas, rice, corn, coffee, sugarcane, vegetables; livestock; shrimp


Industries:

construction, brewing, cement and other construction materials,
sugar milling


Industrial production growth rate:

10.5% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

5.805 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

4.768 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

124.9 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

8.74 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 37%
hydro: 61.3%
nuclear: 0%
other: 1.7% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

92,790 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

4,447 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

88,790 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$1.577 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$9.312 billion f.o.b.; note - includes the Colon Free Zone (2007
est.)


Exports - commodities:

bananas, shrimp, sugar, coffee, clothing


Exports - partners:

US 35.6%, Netherlands 10.2%, China 6%, Sweden 5.5%, UK 5.4%, Costa
Rica 5.1%, Spain 5% (2007)


Imports:

$12.62 billion f.o.b.
note: includes the Colon Free Zone (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

capital goods, foodstuffs, consumer goods, chemicals


Imports - partners:

US 32.8%, Netherlands Antilles 7.6%, China 5.6%, Japan 5.1%, Costa
Rica 5.1%, South Korea 4.1% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$19.54 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$1.935 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$10.45 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$NA


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$5.074 billion (2005)


Currency (code):

balboa (PAB); US dollar (USD)


Currency code:

PAB; USD


Exchange rates:

balboas (PAB) per US dollar - 1 (2007), 1 (2006), 1 (2005), 1
(2004), 1 (2003)


Communications
Panama



Telephones - main lines in use:

491,900 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

2.392 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: domestic and international facilities well
developed
domestic: combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity is
approaching 90 per 100 persons
international: country code - 507; landing point for the Americas
Region Caribbean Ring System (ARCOS-1), the MAYA-1, and PAN-AM
submarine cable systems that together provide links to the US and
parts of the Caribbean, Central America, and South America;
satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean); connected to
the Central American Microwave System (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 101, FM 134, shortwave 0 (1998)


Radios:

815,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

38 (including repeaters) (1998)


Televisions:

510,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.pa


Internet hosts:

7,858 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

6 (2000)


Internet users:

525,200 (2007)


Transportation
Panama



Airports:

116 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 54
over 3,047 m: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
914 to 1,523 m: 18
under 914 m: 29 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 62
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 11
under 914 m: 50 (2007)


Heliports:

2 (2007)


Railways:

total: 355 km
standard gauge: 77 km 1.435-m gauge
narrow gauge: 278 km 0.914-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 11,978 km
paved: 4,300 km
unpaved: 7,343 km (2002)


Waterways:

800 km (includes 82 km Panama Canal) (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 6,323
by type: barge carrier 2, bulk carrier 2,143, cargo 1,208, carrier
13, chemical tanker 565, combination ore/oil 6, container 790,
liquefied gas 189, passenger 44, passenger/cargo 71, petroleum
tanker 557, refrigerated cargo 265, roll on/roll off 128,
specialized tanker 29, vehicle carrier 313
foreign-owned: 5,394 (Albania 2, Argentina 8, Australia 4,
Azerbaijan 1, Bahamas 9, Bangladesh 2, Belgium 2, British Virgin
Islands 1, Bulgaria 3, Burma 1, Canada 18, Chile 12, China 532,
Colombia 4, Croatia 3, Cuba 10, Cyprus 19, Denmark 40, Dominican
Republic 1, Ecuador 4, Egypt 17, Estonia 5, Finland 2, France 5,
Gabon 1, Germany 44, Gibraltar 1, Greece 510, Hong Kong 130, India
27, Indonesia 31, Iran 7, Israel 3, Italy 28, Japan 2,335, Jordan
13, North Korea 1, South Korea 303, Kuwait 2, Latvia 8, Lebanon 5,
Lithuania 7, Malaysia 12, Maldives 1, Malta 3, Mexico 2, Monaco 16,
Netherlands 14, Nigeria 10, Norway 89, Oman 2, Pakistan 9, Peru 16,
Philippines 7, Poland 11, Portugal 9, Qatar 1, Romania 7, Russia 18,
Saudi Arabia 16, Singapore 100, Spain 50, Sri Lanka 1, Sweden 6,
Switzerland 25, Syria 32, Taiwan 320, Thailand 10, Tunisia 1, Turkey
94, Turks and Caicos Islands 1, Ukraine 10, UAE 109, UK 59, US 126,
Venezuela 10, Vietnam 30, Yemen 6)
registered in other countries: 3 (Marshall Islands 1, Sierra Leone
1, Venezuela 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Balboa, Colon, Cristobal


Military
Panama



Military branches:

no regular military forces; Panamanian Public Forces or PPF includes
the Panamanian National Police (PNP), National Maritime Service
(NMS), and National Air Service (NAS) (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 851,044 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 673,103 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 31,042
female: 29,969 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1% of GDP (2006)


Military - note:

on 10 February 1990, the government of then President ENDARA
abolished Panama's military and reformed the security apparatus by
creating the Panamanian Public Forces; in October 1994, Panama's
Legislative Assembly approved a constitutional amendment prohibiting
the creation of a standing military force but allowing the temporary
establishment of special police units to counter acts of "external
aggression"


Transnational Issues
Panama



Disputes - international:

organized illegal narcotics operations in Colombia operate within
the remote border region with Panama


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Panama is a source, transit, and destination
country for women and children trafficked for the purpose of
commercial sexual exploitation; the majority of victims are
Panamanian women and children trafficked within the country into the
sex trade; rural children in Panama may be trafficked internally to
urban areas for labor exploitation
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Panama is on the Tier 2 Watch List
for failing to show evidence of increasing efforts to combat human
trafficking, particularly with respect to prosecuting, convicting,
and sentencing human traffickers for their crimes, and for failing
to provide adequate victim assistance (2008)


Illicit drugs:

major cocaine transshipment point and primary money-laundering
center for narcotics revenue; money-laundering activity is
especially heavy in the Colon Free Zone; offshore financial center;
negligible signs of coca cultivation; monitoring of financial
transactions is improving; official corruption remains a major
problem



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Papua New Guinea

Introduction
Papua New Guinea



Background:

The eastern half of the island of New Guinea - second largest in the
world - was divided between Germany (north) and the UK (south) in
1885. The latter area was transferred to Australia in 1902, which
occupied the northern portion during World War I and continued to
administer the combined areas until independence in 1975. A
nine-year secessionist revolt on the island of Bougainville ended in
1997 after claiming some 20,000 lives.


Geography
Papua New Guinea



Location:

Oceania, group of islands including the eastern half of the island
of New Guinea between the Coral Sea and the South Pacific Ocean,
east of Indonesia


Geographic coordinates:

6 00 S, 147 00 E


Map references:

Oceania


Area:

total: 462,840 sq km
land: 452,860 sq km
water: 9,980 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than California


Land boundaries:

total: 820 km
border countries: Indonesia 820 km


Coastline:

5,152 km


Maritime claims:

measured from claimed archipelagic baselines
territorial sea: 12 nm
continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation
exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; northwest monsoon (December to March), southeast monsoon
(May to October); slight seasonal temperature variation


Terrain:

mostly mountains with coastal lowlands and rolling foothills


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: Mount Wilhelm 4,509 m


Natural resources:

gold, copper, silver, natural gas, timber, oil, fisheries


Land use:

arable land: 0.49%
permanent crops: 1.4%
other: 98.11% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Total renewable water resources:

801 cu km (1987)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.1 cu km/yr (56%/43%/1%)
per capita: 17 cu m/yr (1987)


Natural hazards:

active volcanism; situated along the Pacific "Ring of Fire"; the
country is subject to frequent and sometimes severe earthquakes; mud
slides; tsunamis


Environment - current issues:

rain forest subject to deforestation as a result of growing
commercial demand for tropical timber; pollution from mining
projects; severe drought


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83,
Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

shares island of New Guinea with Indonesia; one of world's largest
swamps along southwest coast


People
Papua New Guinea



Population:

5,931,769 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 37.3% (male 1,124,174/female 1,086,478)
15-64 years: 58.7% (male 1,791,342/female 1,690,089)
65 years and over: 4% (male 111,023/female 128,663) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 21.5 years
male: 21.6 years
female: 21.4 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.118% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

28.14 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

6.96 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.86 male(s)/female
total population: 1.04 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 46.67 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 50.68 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 42.47 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 66 years
male: 63.76 years
female: 68.35 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

3.71 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.6% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

60,000 (2005 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

600 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Papua New Guinean(s)
adjective: Papua New Guinean


Ethnic groups:

Melanesian, Papuan, Negrito, Micronesian, Polynesian


Religions:

Roman Catholic 27%, Evangelical Lutheran 19.5%, United Church 11.5%,
Seventh-Day Adventist 10%, Pentecostal 8.6%, Evangelical Alliance
5.2%, Anglican 3.2%, Baptist 2.5%, other Protestant 8.9%, Bahai
0.3%, indigenous beliefs and other 3.3% (2000 census)


Languages:

Melanesian Pidgin serves as the lingua franca, English spoken by
1%-2%, Motu spoken in Papua region
note: 820 indigenous languages spoken (over one-tenth of the world's
total)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 57.3%
male: 63.4%
female: 50.9% (2000 census)


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Papua New Guinea



Country name:

conventional long form: Independent State of Papua New Guinea
conventional short form: Papua New Guinea
local short form: Papuaniugini
former: Territory of Papua and New Guinea
abbreviation: PNG


Government type:

constitutional parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Port Moresby
geographic coordinates: 9 30 S, 147 10 E
time difference: UTC+10 (15 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

20 provinces; Bougainville, Central, Chimbu, Eastern Highlands, East
New Britain, East Sepik, Enga, Gulf, Madang, Manus, Milne Bay,
Morobe, National Capital, New Ireland, Northern, Sandaun, Southern
Highlands, Western, Western Highlands, West New Britain


Independence:

16 September 1975 (from the Australian-administered UN trusteeship)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 16 September (1975)


Constitution:

16 September 1975


Legal system:

based on English common law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by governor general Sir Paulius MATANE (since 29 June
2004)
head of government: Prime Minister Sir Michael SOMARE (since 2
August 2002); Deputy Prime Minister Puka TEMU (since 29 August 2007)
cabinet: National Executive Council appointed by governor general on
recommendation of prime minister
elections: monarch is hereditary; governor general nominated by
parliament and appointed by chief of state; following legislative
elections, leader of majority party or leader of majority coalition
usually is appointed prime minister by governor general


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Parliament (109 seats, 89 filled from open
electorates and 20 from provinces and national capital district;
members elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms);
constitution allows up to 126 seats
elections: last held from 30 June to 10 July 2007; next to be held
in June 2012
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
National Alliance 27, PNGP 8, PAP 6, URP 6, PANGU 5, PDM 5,
independents 19, others 33; note - election to 1 seat was nullified
note: 15 other parties won 4 or fewer seats; association with
political parties is fluid


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (the chief justice is appointed by the governor
general on the proposal of the National Executive Council after
consultation with the minister responsible for justice; other judges
are appointed by the Judicial and Legal Services Commission)


Political parties and leaders:

National Alliance Party or NA [Michael SOMARE]; Papua and Niugini
Union Party or PANGU PATI [Andrew KUMBAKOR]; Papua New Guinea Party
or PNGP [Sir Mekere MORAUTA]; People's Democratic Movement or PDM
[Michael OGIO]; People's Action Party or PAP [Gabriel KAPRIS];
United Resources Party or URP [William DUMA] (2007)


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Ahora [Andrew MAMOKO] (represents local tribes); Centre for
Environment Law and Community Rights or Celcor [Damien ASE];
Community Coalition Against Corruption


International organization participation:

ACP, ADB, APEC, ARF, ASEAN (observer), C, CP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO,
ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM
(observer), IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, MIGA, NAM, OPCW,
PIF, Sparteca, SPC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WHO,
WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Evan Jeremy PAKI
chancery: 1779 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Suite 805, Washington, DC
20036
telephone: [1] (202) 745-3680
FAX: [1] (202) 745-3679


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Leslie V. ROWE
embassy: Douglas Street, Port Moresby, N.C.D.
mailing address: 4240 Port Moresby PI, US Department of State,
Washington DC 20521-4240
telephone: [675] 321-1455
FAX: [675] 321-3423


Flag description:

divided diagonally from upper hoist-side corner; the upper triangle
is red with a soaring yellow bird of paradise centered; the lower
triangle is black with five, white, five-pointed stars of the
Southern Cross constellation centered


Economy
Papua New Guinea



Economy - overview:

Papua New Guinea is richly endowed with natural resources, but
exploitation has been hampered by rugged terrain and the high cost
of developing infrastructure. Agriculture provides a subsistence
livelihood for 85% of the population. Mineral deposits, including
copper, gold, and oil, account for nearly two-thirds of export
earnings. The government of Prime Minister SOMARE has expended much
of its energy remaining in power. He was the first prime minister
ever to serve a full five-year term. The government also brought
stability to the national budget, largely through expenditure
control; however, it relaxed spending constraints in 2006 and 2007
as elections approached. Numerous challenges still face the
government including regaining investor confidence, restoring
integrity to state institutions, promoting economic efficiency by
privatizing moribund state institutions, and balancing relations
with Australia, its former colonial ruler. Other socio-cultural
challenges could upend the economy including a worsening HIV/AIDS
epidemic and chronic law and order and land tenure issues. Australia
will supply more than $300 million in aid in FY07/08, which accounts
for nearly 20% of the national budget.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$12.05 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$6.001 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$2,100 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 34%
industry: 37.3%
services: 28.7% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

3.557 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 85%
industry: NA%
services: NA% (2005 est.)


Unemployment rate:

1.9% up to 80% in urban areas (2004)


Population below poverty line:

37% (2002 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 1.7%
highest 10%: 40.5% (1996)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

50.9 (1996)


Investment (gross fixed):

19.3% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $2.363 billion
expenditures: $2.21 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

40.1% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

0.9% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

7.38% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

9.78% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$1.685 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$1.482 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$1.486 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

coffee, cocoa, copra, palm kernels, tea, sugar, rubber, sweet
potatoes, fruit, vegetables, vanilla; shell fish, poultry, pork


Industries:

copra crushing, palm oil processing, plywood production, wood chip
production; mining of gold, silver, and copper; crude oil
production, petroleum refining; construction, tourism


Industrial production growth rate:

6.4% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

2.875 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

2.674 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 54.1%
hydro: 45.9%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

42,100 bbl/day (2008 est.)


Oil - consumption:

29,050 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

39,310 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

24,150 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

88 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

140 million cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

140 million cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

226.5 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$125.8 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$4.686 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

oil, gold, copper ore, logs, palm oil, coffee, cocoa, crayfish,
prawns


Exports - partners:

Australia 27.3%, Japan 9.5%, China 5.7% (2007)


Imports:

$2.629 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and transport equipment, manufactured goods, food, fuels,
chemicals


Imports - partners:

Australia 51.3%, Singapore 11.6%, China 7.9%, Japan 5.7% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$266.1 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$2.087 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$1.646 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$NA


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$4.863 billion (2005)


Currency (code):

kina (PGK)


Currency code:

PGK


Exchange rates:

kina (PGK) per US dollar - 3.03 (2007), 3.0643 (2006), 3.08 (2005),
3.2225 (2004), 3.5635 (2003)


Communications
Papua New Guinea



Telephones - main lines in use:

60,000 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

300,000 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: services are minimal; facilities provide
radiotelephone and telegraph, coastal radio, aeronautical radio, and
international radio communication services
domestic: access to telephone services is not widely available;
combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity is 6 per 100
persons
international: country code - 675; submarine cables to Australia and
Guam; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean);
international radio communication service (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 8, FM 19, shortwave 28 (1998)


Radios:

410,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

3 (all in the Port Moresby area; stations at Mt. Hagen, Goroka, Lae,
and Rabaul are planned) (2004)


Televisions:

59,841 (1999)


Internet country code:

.pg


Internet hosts:

3,422 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

3 (2000)


Internet users:

110,000 (2006)


Transportation
Papua New Guinea



Airports:

578 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 21
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 14
914 to 1,523 m: 4
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 557
1,524 to 2,437 m: 10
914 to 1,523 m: 58
under 914 m: 489 (2007)


Heliports:

2 (2007)


Pipelines:

oil 264 km (2007)


Roadways:

total: 19,600 km
paved: 686 km
unpaved: 18,914 km (2000)


Waterways:

11,000 km (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 21
by type: bulk carrier 2, cargo 17, petroleum tanker 2
foreign-owned: 6 (UAE 6) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Kimbe, Lae, Madang, Rabaul, Wewak


Military
Papua New Guinea



Military branches:

Papua New Guinea Defense Force (PNGDF; includes Maritime Operations
Element, Air Operations Element) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

16 years of age for voluntary military service; no conscription
(2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,481,417
females age 16-49: 1,385,040 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,080,466
females age 16-49: 1,092,040 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 62,865
female: 61,102 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.4% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Papua New Guinea



Disputes - international:

relies on assistance from Australia to keep out illegal cross-border
activities from primarily Indonesia, including goods smuggling,
illegal narcotics trafficking, and squatters and secessionists


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 10,177 (Indonesia) (2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Papua New Guinea is a country of destination for
women and children from Malaysia, the Philippines, Thailand, and
China trafficked for the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation;
internal trafficking of women and children for the purposes of
sexual exploitation and involuntary domestic servitude occurs as well
tier rating: Tier 3 - Papua New Guinea does not fully comply with
the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking and is not
making significant efforts to do so; the current legal framework
does not contain elements of crimes that characterize trafficking;
the government lacks victim protection services or a systematic
procedure to identify victims of trafficking; the government did not
prosecute anyone in 2007 for trafficking; Papua New Guinea has not
ratified the 2000 UN TIP Protocol (2008)


Illicit drugs:

major consumer of cannabis



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Paracel Islands

Introduction
Paracel Islands



Background:

The Paracel Islands are surrounded by productive fishing grounds and
by potential oil and gas reserves. In 1932, French Indochina annexed
the islands and set up a weather station on Pattle Island;
maintenance was continued by its successor, Vietnam. China has
occupied the Paracel Islands since 1974, when its troops seized a
South Vietnamese garrison occupying the western islands. China built
a military installation on Mischief Reef in 1999. The islands are
claimed by Taiwan and Vietnam.


Geography
Paracel Islands



Location:

Southeastern Asia, group of small islands and reefs in the South
China Sea, about one-third of the way from central Vietnam to the
northern Philippines


Geographic coordinates:

16 30 N, 112 00 E


Map references:

Southeast Asia


Area:

total: NA sq km
land: NA sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

NA


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

518 km


Maritime claims:

NA


Climate:

tropical


Terrain:

mostly low and flat


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: South China Sea 0 m
highest point: unnamed location on Rocky Island 14 m


Natural resources:

none


Land use:

arable land: 0%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 100% (2005)


Irrigated land:

0 sq km


Natural hazards:

typhoons


Environment - current issues:

NA


Geography - note:

composed of 130 small coral islands and reefs divided into the
northeast Amphitrite Group and the western Crescent Group


People
Paracel Islands



Population:

no indigenous inhabitants
note: there are scattered Chinese garrisons


Government
Paracel Islands



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Paracel Islands


Economy
Paracel Islands



Economy - overview:

China announced plans in 1997 to open the islands for tourism.



Transportation
Paracel Islands



Airports:

1 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)


Ports and terminals:

small Chinese port facilities on Woody Island and Duncan Island
being expanded


Military
Paracel Islands



Military - note:

occupied by China


Transnational Issues
Paracel Islands



Disputes - international:

occupied by China, also claimed by Taiwan and Vietnam



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Paraguay

Introduction
Paraguay



Background:

In the disastrous War of the Triple Alliance (1865-70) - between
Paraguay and Argentina, Brazil, and Uruguay - Paraguay lost
two-thirds of all adult males and much of its territory. It
stagnated economically for the next half century. In the Chaco War
of 1932-35, Paraguay won large, economically important areas from
Bolivia. The 35-year military dictatorship of Alfredo STROESSNER
ended in 1989, and, despite a marked increase in political
infighting in recent years, Paraguay has held relatively free and
regular presidential elections since then.


Geography
Paraguay



Location:

Central South America, northeast of Argentina


Geographic coordinates:

23 00 S, 58 00 W


Map references:

South America


Area:

total: 406,750 sq km
land: 397,300 sq km
water: 9,450 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than California


Land boundaries:

total: 3,995 km
border countries: Argentina 1,880 km, Bolivia 750 km, Brazil 1,365 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

subtropical to temperate; substantial rainfall in the eastern
portions, becoming semiarid in the far west


Terrain:

grassy plains and wooded hills east of Rio Paraguay; Gran Chaco
region west of Rio Paraguay mostly low, marshy plain near the river,
and dry forest and thorny scrub elsewhere


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: junction of Rio Paraguay and Rio Parana 46 m
highest point: Cerro Pero (Cerro Tres Kandu) 842 m


Natural resources:

hydropower, timber, iron ore, manganese, limestone


Land use:

arable land: 7.47%
permanent crops: 0.24%
other: 92.29% (2005)


Irrigated land:

670 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

336 cu km (2000)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.49 cu km/yr (20%/8%/71%)
per capita: 80 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

local flooding in southeast (early September to June); poorly
drained plains may become boggy (early October to June)


Environment - current issues:

deforestation; water pollution; inadequate means for waste disposal
pose health risks for many urban residents; loss of wetlands


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

landlocked; lies between Argentina, Bolivia, and Brazil; population
concentrated in southern part of country


People
Paraguay



Population:

6,831,306 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 36.9% (male 1,283,311/female 1,240,769)
15-64 years: 57.9% (male 1,988,256/female 1,968,869)
65 years and over: 5.1% (male 161,811/female 188,290) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 21.7 years
male: 21.5 years
female: 22 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.39% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

28.47 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

4.49 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-0.07 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.86 male(s)/female
total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 25.55 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 29.74 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 21.16 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 75.56 years
male: 72.99 years
female: 78.26 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

3.8 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.5% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

15,000 (1999 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

600 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: intermediate
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever
vectorborne disease: dengue fever and malaria (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Paraguayan(s)
adjective: Paraguayan


Ethnic groups:

mestizo (mixed Spanish and Amerindian) 95%, other 5%


Religions:

Roman Catholic 89.6%, Protestant 6.2%, other Christian 1.1%, other
or unspecified 1.9%, none 1.1% (2002 census)


Languages:

Spanish (official), Guarani (official)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 94%
male: 94.9%
female: 93% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 12 years
male: 12 years
female: 12 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

4% of GDP (2004)


Government
Paraguay



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Paraguay
conventional short form: Paraguay
local long form: Republica del Paraguay
local short form: Paraguay


Government type:

constitutional republic


Capital:

name: Asuncion
geographic coordinates: 25 16 S, 57 40 W
time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

17 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento) and 1
capital city*; Alto Paraguay, Alto Parana, Amambay, Asuncion*,
Boqueron, Caaguazu, Caazapa, Canindeyu, Central, Concepcion,
Cordillera, Guaira, Itapua, Misiones, Neembucu, Paraguari,
Presidente Hayes, San Pedro


Independence:

14 May 1811 (from Spain)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 14 May 1811 (observed 15 May)


Constitution:

promulgated 20 June 1992


Legal system:

based on Argentine codes, Roman law, and French codes; judicial
review of legislative acts in Supreme Court of Justice; accepts
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal and compulsory up to age 75


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Fernando Armindo LUGO Mendez (since 15
August 2008); Vice President Federico FRANCO (since 15 August 2008);
note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government
head of government: President Fernando Armindo LUGO Mendez (since 15
August 2008); Vice President Federico FRANCO (since 15 August 2008)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
elections: president and vice president elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for a single five-year term; election last held 20
April 2008 (next to be held April 2013)
election results: Fernando Armindo LUGO Mendez elected president;
percent of vote - Fernando Armindo LUGO Mendez 40.8%, Blanca OVELAR
30.6%, Lino OVIEDO 21.9%, Pedro FADUL 2.4%, other 4.3%


Legislative branch:

bicameral Congress or Congreso consists of the Chamber of Senators
or Camara de Senadores (45 seats; members are elected by popular
vote to serve five-year terms) and the Chamber of Deputies or Camara
de Diputados (80 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
five-year terms)
elections: Chamber of Senators - last held 20 April 2008 (next to be
held in April 2013); Chamber of Deputies - last held 20 April 2008
(next to be held in April 2013)
election results: Chamber of Senators - percent of vote by party -
NA; seats by party - ANR 15, PLRA 14, UNACE 9, PPQ 4, other 3;
Chamber of Deputies - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party
- ANR 30, PLRA 27, UNACE 15, PPQ 3, APC 2, other 3


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court of Justice or Corte Suprema de Justicia (nine judges
appointed on the proposal of the Council of Magistrates or Consejo
de la Magistratura)


Political parties and leaders:

Alianza Patriotica por el Cambio (Patriotic Alliance for Change) or
APC [Fernando LUGO]; Asociacion Nacional Republicana - Colorado
Party or ANR [Jose Alberto ALDERETE]; Movimiento Union Nacional de
Ciudadanos Eticos or UNACE [Enrique GONZALEZ Quintana]; Patria
Querida (Beloved Fatherland Party) or PPQ [Pedro Nicolas Maraa FADUL
Niella]; Partido del Movimiento al Socialismo or P-MAS; Partido
Encuentro Nacional or PEN [Emilio CAMACHO Paredes]; Partido Liberal
Radical Autentico or PLRA [Blas LLANO]; Partido Pais Solidario or
PPS [Carlos Alberto FILIZZOLA Pallares]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Ahorristas Estafados or AE; National Coordinating Board of Campesino
Organizations or MCNOC [Luis AGUAYO]; National Federation of
Campesinos or FNC [Odilon ESPINOLA]; National Workers Central or CNT
[Secretary General Juan TORRALES]; Paraguayan Workers Confederation
or CPT; Roman Catholic Church; Unitary Workers Central or CUT [Jorge
Guzman ALVARENGA Malgarejo]


International organization participation:

CAN (associate), FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO
(correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES, LAIA, Mercosur, MIGA,
MINURSO, MINUSTAH, MONUC, NAM (observer), OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA,
RG, UN, UNASUR, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNMIL, UNMIS,
UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador James SPALDING Hellmers
chancery: 2400 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 483-6960 through 6962
FAX: [1] (202) 234-4508
consulate(s) general: Los Angeles, Miami, New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

Ambassador Liliana AYALDE
embassy: 1776 Avenida Mariscal Lopez, Casilla Postal 402, Asuncion
mailing address: Unit 4711, APO AA 34036-0001
telephone: [595] (21) 213-715
FAX: [595] (21) 228-603


Flag description:

three equal, horizontal bands of red (top), white, and blue with an
emblem centered in the white band; unusual flag in that the emblem
is different on each side; the obverse (hoist side at the left)
bears the national coat of arms (a yellow five-pointed star within a
green wreath capped by the words REPUBLICA DEL PARAGUAY, all within
two circles); the reverse (hoist side at the right) bears the seal
of the treasury (a yellow lion below a red Cap of Liberty and the
words Paz y Justicia (Peace and Justice) capped by the words
REPUBLICA DEL PARAGUAY, all within two circles)


Economy
Paraguay



Economy - overview:

Landlocked Paraguay has a market economy marked by a large informal
sector. This sector features both reexport of imported consumer
goods to neighboring countries, as well as the activities of
thousands of microenterprises and urban street vendors. Because of
the importance of the informal sector, accurate economic measures
are difficult to obtain. A large percentage of the population,
especially in rural areas, derives its living from agricultural
activity, often on a subsistence basis. On a per capita basis, real
income has stagnated at 1980 levels. Most observers attribute
Paraguay's poor economic performance to political uncertainty,
corruption, limited progress on structural reform, and deficient
infrastructure. The economy rebounded between 2003 and 2007, posting
modest growth each year, as growing world demand for commodities
combined with high prices and favorable weather to support
Paraguay's commodity-based export expansion.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$26.7 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$10.87 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6.6% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$4,000 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 22.7%
industry: 17.6%
services: 59.7% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

2.787 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 31%
industry: 17%
services: 52% (2007)


Unemployment rate:

5.6% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

32% (2005 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 0.7%
highest 10%: 46.1% (2003)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

56.8 (2008)


Investment (gross fixed):

18.9% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $2.159 billion
expenditures: $2.042 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

27% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

8.1% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

20% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

25.03% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$1.943 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$1.368 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$2.457 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

cotton, sugarcane, soybeans, corn, wheat, tobacco, cassava
(tapioca), fruits, vegetables; beef, pork, eggs, milk; timber


Industries:

sugar, cement, textiles, beverages, wood products, steel,
metallurgic, electric power


Industrial production growth rate:

-1% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

70 billion kWh (2007)


Electricity - consumption:

6 billion kWh (2007)


Electricity - exports:

64 billion kWh (2007)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 0%
hydro: 99.9%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0.1% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

27,410 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2007)


Oil - imports:

25,940 bbl/day (2007)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2007 est.)


Current account balance:

$119 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$5.463 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

soybeans, feed, cotton, meat, edible oils, electricity, wood, leather


Exports - partners:

Argentina 28.1%, Uruguay 15.2%, Brazil 12.7%, Chile 5.9%, Germany
4.9%, Russia 4.5% (2007)


Imports:

$6.094 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

road vehicles, consumer goods, tobacco, petroleum products,
electrical machinery, tractors, chemicals, vehicle parts


Imports - partners:

Brazil 30.4%, US 22.8%, Argentina 14.4%, China 8.6% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$51.09 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$2.463 billion (31 December 2007)


Debt - external:

$3.492 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$2.057 million (2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$233.8 million (2005)


Currency (code):

guarani (PYG)


Currency code:

PYG


Exchange rates:

guarani (PYG) per US dollar - 5,031 (2007), 5,672.8 (2006), 6,178
(2005), 5,974.6 (2004), 6,424.3 (2003)


Communications
Paraguay



Telephones - main lines in use:

453,800 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

4.33 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: meager telephone service; principal switching
center is in Asuncion
domestic: the fixed-line market is a state monopoly; deficiencies in
provision of fixed-line service have resulted in a rapid expansion
of mobile-cellular services fostered by competition among multiple
providers
international: country code - 595; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 41, FM 121, shortwave 6 (3 inactive) (2006)


Radios:

925,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

5 (2007)


Televisions:

990,000 (2001)


Internet country code:

.py


Internet hosts:

19,691 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

4 (2000)


Internet users:

280,000 (2007)


Transportation
Paraguay



Airports:

838 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 13
over 3,047 m: 3
1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
914 to 1,523 m: 5 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 825
1,524 to 2,437 m: 26
914 to 1,523 m: 267
under 914 m: 532 (2007)


Railways:

total: 36 km
standard gauge: 36 km 1.435-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 29,500 km
paved: 14,986 km
unpaved: 14,514 km (2000)


Waterways:

3,100 km (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 23
by type: cargo 18, carrier 1, passenger 1, petroleum tanker 2, roll
on/roll off 1
foreign-owned: 6 (Argentina 5, Netherlands 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Asuncion, Villeta, San Antonio, Encarnacion


Military
Paraguay



Military branches:

Army, National Navy (Armada Nacional, includes Naval Aviation,
Marine Corps, General Naval Prefecture), Air Force (Fuerza Aerea
Paraguay, FAP) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military service;
conscript service obligation - 12 months for Army, 24 months for
Navy (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,589,873
females age 16-49: 1,585,573 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,327,730
females age 16-49: 1,356,989 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 72,109
female: 70,509 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1% of GDP (2006 est.)


Transnational Issues
Paraguay



Disputes - international:

unruly region at convergence of Argentina-Brazil-Paraguay borders is
locus of money laundering, smuggling, arms and illegal narcotics
trafficking, and fundraising for extremist organizations


Illicit drugs:

major illicit producer of cannabis, most or all of which is consumed
in Brazil, Argentina, and Chile; transshipment country for Andean
cocaine headed for Brazil, other Southern Cone markets, and Europe;
weak border controls, extensive corruption and money-laundering
activity, especially in the Tri-Border Area; weak
anti-money-laundering laws and enforcement



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Peru

Introduction
Peru



Background:

Ancient Peru was the seat of several prominent Andean civilizations,
most notably that of the Incas whose empire was captured by the
Spanish conquistadors in 1533. Peruvian independence was declared in
1821, and remaining Spanish forces defeated in 1824. After a dozen
years of military rule, Peru returned to democratic leadership in
1980, but experienced economic problems and the growth of a violent
insurgency. President Alberto FUJIMORI's election in 1990 ushered in
a decade that saw a dramatic turnaround in the economy and
significant progress in curtailing guerrilla activity. Nevertheless,
the president's increasing reliance on authoritarian measures and an
economic slump in the late 1990s generated mounting dissatisfaction
with his regime, which led to his ouster in 2000. A caretaker
government oversaw new elections in the spring of 2001, which
ushered in Alejandro TOLEDO as the new head of government - Peru's
first democratically elected president of Native American ethnicity.
The presidential election of 2006 saw the return of Alan GARCIA who,
after a disappointing presidential term from 1985 to 1990, returned
to the presidency with promises to improve social conditions and
maintain fiscal responsibility.


Geography
Peru



Location:

Western South America, bordering the South Pacific Ocean, between
Chile and Ecuador


Geographic coordinates:

10 00 S, 76 00 W


Map references:

South America


Area:

total: 1,285,220 sq km
land: 1.28 million sq km
water: 5,220 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Alaska


Land boundaries:

total: 7,461 km
border countries: Bolivia 1,075 km, Brazil 2,995 km, Chile 171 km,
Colombia 1,800 km, Ecuador 1,420 km


Coastline:

2,414 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm


Climate:

varies from tropical in east to dry desert in west; temperate to
frigid in Andes


Terrain:

western coastal plain (costa), high and rugged Andes in center
(sierra), eastern lowland jungle of Amazon Basin (selva)


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: Nevado Huascaran 6,768 m


Natural resources:

copper, silver, gold, petroleum, timber, fish, iron ore, coal,
phosphate, potash, hydropower, natural gas


Land use:

arable land: 2.88%
permanent crops: 0.47%
other: 96.65% (2005)


Irrigated land:

12,000 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

1,913 cu km (2000)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 20.13 cu km/yr (8%/10%/82%)
per capita: 720 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

earthquakes, tsunamis, flooding, landslides, mild volcanic activity


Environment - current issues:

deforestation (some the result of illegal logging); overgrazing of
the slopes of the costa and sierra leading to soil erosion;
desertification; air pollution in Lima; pollution of rivers and
coastal waters from municipal and mining wastes


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living
Resources, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Hazardous Wastes, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

shares control of Lago Titicaca, world's highest navigable lake,
with Bolivia; a remote slope of Nevado Mismi, a 5,316 m peak, is the
ultimate source of the Amazon River


People
Peru



Population:

29,180,900 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 29.7% (male 4,409,227/female 4,253,836)
15-64 years: 64.7% (male 9,501,597/female 9,381,139)
65 years and over: 5.6% (male 770,389/female 864,711) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 25.8 years
male: 25.5 years
female: 26.1 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.264% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

19.77 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

6.16 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-0.97 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.89 male(s)/female
total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 29.53 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 32.02 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 26.93 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 70.44 years
male: 68.61 years
female: 72.37 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.42 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.5% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

82,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

4,200 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial, hepatitis A, and typhoid
fever
vectorborne disease: dengue fever, malaria, Oroya fever, and yellow
fever
water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Peruvian(s)
adjective: Peruvian


Ethnic groups:

Amerindian 45%, mestizo (mixed Amerindian and white) 37%, white 15%,
black, Japanese, Chinese, and other 3%


Religions:

Roman Catholic 81%, Seventh Day Adventist 1.4%, other Christian
0.7%, other 0.6%, unspecified or none 16.3% (2003 est.)


Languages:

Spanish (official), Quechua (official), Aymara, and a large number
of minor Amazonian languages


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 87.7%
male: 93.5%
female: 82.1% (2004 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 14 years
male: 14 years
female: 14 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

2.5% of GDP (2006)


Government
Peru



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Peru
conventional short form: Peru
local long form: Republica del Peru
local short form: Peru


Government type:

constitutional republic


Capital:

name: Lima
geographic coordinates: 12 03 S, 77 03 W
time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard
Time)


Administrative divisions:

25 regions (regiones, singular - region) and 1 province*
(provincia); Amazonas, Ancash, Apurimac, Arequipa, Ayacucho,
Cajamarca, Callao, Cusco, Huancavelica, Huanuco, Ica, Junin, La
Libertad, Lambayeque, Lima, Lima*, Loreto, Madre de Dios, Moquegua,
Pasco, Piura, Puno, San Martin, Tacna, Tumbes, Ucayali


Independence:

28 July 1821 (from Spain)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 28 July (1821)


Constitution:

29 December 1993


Legal system:

based on civil law system; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with
reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal and compulsory until the age of 70; note
- for the first time in recent elections, members of the military
and national police were eligible to vote in the 2006 elections


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Alan GARCIA Perez (since 28 July 2006);
First Vice President Luis GIAMPIETRI Rojas; Second Vice President
Lourdes MENDOZA del Solar (since 28 July 2006); note - the president
is both the chief of state and head of government
head of government: President Alan GARCIA Perez (since 28 July
2006); First Vice President Luis GIAMPIETRI Rojas; Second Vice
President Lourdes MENDOZA del Solar (since 28 July 2006)
note: Prime Minister Yehude SIMON Munaro (since 14 October 2008)
does not exercise executive power; this power is in the hands of the
president
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a nonconsecutive reelection); presidential and
congressional elections held 9 April 2006 with runoff election held
4 June 2006; next to be held in April 2011
election results: Alan GARCIA elected president in runoff election;
percent of vote - Alan GARCIA 52.5%, Ollanta HUMALA Tasso 47.5%


Legislative branch:

unicameral Congress of the Republic of Peru or Congreso de la
Republica del Peru (120 seats; members are elected by popular vote
to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held 9 April 2006 (next to be held in April 2011)
election results: percent of vote by party - UPP 21.2%, PAP 20.6%,
UN 15.3%, AF 13.1%, FC 7.1%, PP 4.1%, RN 4.0%, other 14.6%; seats by
party - UPP 45, PAP 36, UN 17, AF 13, FC 5, PP 2, RN 2


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court of Justice or Corte Suprema de Justicia (judges are
appointed by the National Council of the Judiciary)


Political parties and leaders:

Alliance For Progress (Alianza Para El Progreso) [Cesar ACUNA
Peralta]; Alliance For The Future (Alianza Por El Futuro) or AF (a
coalition of pro-FUJIMORI parties including Cambio 90, Nueva
Mayoria, and Si Cumple); Central Front (Frente Del Centro) or FC (a
coalition of Accion Popular, Somos Peru, and Coordinadora Nacional
de Independientes) [Victor Andres GARCIA Belaunde]; National
Renovation Party (Partido Renovacion Nacional) [Rafael REY];
National Restoration Party (Restauracion Nacional) or RN [Humberto
LAY Sun]; National Unity (Unidad Nacional) or UN (a coalition of
Partido Popular Cristiano and Partido Solidaridad Nacional) [Lourdes
FLORES Nano]; Peru Possible (Peru Posible) or PP [Alejandro TOLEDO
Manrique]; Peruvian Aprista Party (Partido Aprista Peruano) or PAP
[Alan GARCIA] (also referred to by its original name Alianza Popular
Revolucionaria Americana or APRA); Peruvian Nationalist Party
(Partido Nacionalista Peruano) or PNP [Ollanta HUMALA Tasso]; Union
for Peru (Union por el Peru) or UPP [Aldo ESTRADA Choque]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Shining Path [Abimael GUZMAN Reynoso (imprisoned), Gabriel MACARIO
(top leader at-large)] (leftist guerrilla group); Tupac Amaru
Revolutionary Movement or MRTA [Victor POLAY (imprisoned), Hugo
AVALLENEDA Valdez (top leader at-large)] (leftist guerrilla group)


International organization participation:

APEC, CAN, FAO, G-15, G-24, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt,
ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol,
IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES, LAIA, Mercosur
(associate), MIGA, MINUSTAH, MONUC, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG,
UN, UNASUR, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNMIL, UNMIS,
UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Felipe ORTIZ de Zevallos
chancery: 1700 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036
telephone: [1] (202) 833-9860 through 9869
FAX: [1] (202) 659-8124
consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Denver, Hartford,
Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, Paterson (New Jersey), San
Francisco, Washington, DC


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador P. Michael MCKINLEY
embassy: Avenida La Encalada, Cuadra 17s/n, Surco, Lima 33
mailing address: P. O. Box 1995, Lima 1; American Embassy (Lima),
APO AA 34031-5000
telephone: [51] (1) 434-3000
FAX: [51] (1) 618-2397


Flag description:

three equal, vertical bands of red (hoist side), white, and red with
the coat of arms centered in the white band; the coat of arms
features a shield bearing a vicuna, cinchona tree (the source of
quinine), and a yellow cornucopia spilling out gold coins, all
framed by a green wreath


Economy
Peru



Economy - overview:

Peru's economy reflects its varied geography - an arid coastal
region, the Andes further inland, and tropical lands bordering
Colombia and Brazil. Abundant mineral resources are found in the
mountainous areas, and Peru's coastal waters provide excellent
fishing grounds. However, overdependence on minerals and metals
subjects the economy to fluctuations in world prices, and a lack of
infrastructure deters trade and investment. After several years of
inconsistent economic performance, the Peruvian economy grew by more
than 4% per year during the period 2002-06, with a stable exchange
rate and low inflation. Growth jumped to 7.5% in 2007, driven by
higher world prices for minerals and metals. Risk premiums on
Peruvian bonds on secondary markets reached historically low levels
in late 2004, reflecting investor optimism regarding the
government's prudent fiscal policies and openness to trade and
investment. Despite the strong macroeconomic performance,
underemployment and poverty have stayed persistently high. Growth
prospects depend on exports of minerals, textiles, and agricultural
products, and by expectations for the Camisea natural gas
megaproject and for other promising energy projects. Upon taking
office, President GARCIA announced Sierra Exportadora, a program
aimed at promoting economic growth in Peru's southern and central
highlands.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$219.6 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$109.1 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

9% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$7,600 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 8.4%
industry: 25.6%
services: 66% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

9.839 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 9%
industry: 18%
services: 73% (2001)


Unemployment rate:

6.9% in metropolitan Lima; widespread underemployment (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

44.5% (2006)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 1.3%
highest 10%: 40.9% (2003)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

52 (2003)


Investment (gross fixed):

23% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $32.54 billion
expenditures: $29.15 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

29.2% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

1.8% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

5.75% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

22.86% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$14.66 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$19.95 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$17.88 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

asparagus, coffee, cotton, sugarcane, rice, potatoes, corn,
plantains, grapes, oranges, coca; poultry, beef, dairy products;
fish, guinea pigs


Industries:

mining and refining of minerals; steel, metal fabrication; petroleum
extraction and refining, natural gas; fishing and fish processing,
textiles, clothing, food processing


Industrial production growth rate:

9.8% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

24.92 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

22.37 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 14.5%
hydro: 84.7%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0.8% (2001)


Oil - production:

125,000 bbl/day (2008 est.)


Oil - consumption:

167,900 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

69,090 bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - imports:

115,600 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

382.9 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

1.78 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

1.78 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

337.8 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$1.516 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$27.96 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

copper, gold, zinc, crude petroleum and petroleum products, coffee,
potatoes, asparagus, textiles, guinea pigs


Exports - partners:

US 19.5%, China 12.7%, Canada 7.6%, Japan 7.5%, Chile 5.9%,
Switzerland 4.2%, Spain 4.1% (2007)


Imports:

$19.6 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

petroleum and petroleum products, plastics, machinery, vehicles,
iron and steel, wheat, paper


Imports - partners:

US 20.5%, China 10.8%, Brazil 9%, Ecuador 6.1%, Argentina 5.6%,
Chile 5%, Colombia 4.8% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$397.8 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$27.78 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$32.83 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$24.72 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$1.476 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$59.66 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

nuevo sol (PEN)


Currency code:

PEN


Exchange rates:

nuevo sol (PEN) per US dollar - 3.1731 (2007), 3.2742 (2006), 3.2958
(2005), 3.4132 (2004), 3.4785 (2003)


Communications
Peru



Telephones - main lines in use:

2.673 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

15.417 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: adequate for most requirements
domestic: fixed-line teledensity is only about 9 per 100 persons;
mobile-cellular teledensity, spurred by competition among multiple
providers, has increased to roughly 55 telephones per 100 persons;
nationwide microwave radio relay system and a domestic satellite
system with 12 earth stations
international: country code - 51; the South America-1 (SAM-1) and
Pan American (PAN-AM) submarine cable systems provide links to parts
of Central and South America, the Caribbean, and US; satellite earth
stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 472, FM 198, shortwave 189 (1999)


Radios:

6.65 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

13 (plus 112 repeaters) (1997)


Televisions:

3.06 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.pe


Internet hosts:

271,745 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

10 (2000)


Internet users:

7.636 million (2007)


Transportation
Peru



Airports:

237 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 54
over 3,047 m: 6
2,438 to 3,047 m: 20
1,524 to 2,437 m: 14
914 to 1,523 m: 11
under 914 m: 3 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 183
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 24
914 to 1,523 m: 40
under 914 m: 117 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 1,181 km; gas/liquid petroleum gas 61 km; liquid natural gas 106
km; liquid petroleum gas 517 km; oil 1,749 km; refined products 13
km (2007)


Railways:

total: 1,989 km
standard gauge: 1,726 km 1.435-m gauge
narrow gauge: 263 km 0.914-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 78,829 km
paved: 11,351 km (includes 276 km of expressways)
unpaved: 67,478 km (2004)


Waterways:

8,808 km
note: 8,600 km of navigable tributaries of Amazon system and 208 km
of Lago Titicaca (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 8
by type: cargo 3, chemical tanker 1, petroleum tanker 4
foreign-owned: 1 (Bahamas 1)
registered in other countries: 17 (Belize 1, Panama 16) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Callao, Iquitos, Matarani, Paita, Pucallpa, Yurimaguas; note -
Iquitos, Pucallpa, and Yurimaguas are on the upper reaches of the
Amazon and its tributaries


Military
Peru



Military branches:

Army of Peru (Ejercito Peruano), Navy of Peru (Marina de Guerra del
Peru, MGP (includes naval air, naval infantry, and Coast Guard)),
Air Force of Peru (Fuerza Aerea del Peru, FAP) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18-30 years of age for voluntary male and female military service;
no conscription (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 7,653,898
females age 16-49: 7,531,329 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 5,796,449
females age 16-49: 6,217,524 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 306,260
female: 296,819 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.5% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Peru



Disputes - international:

Chile and Ecuador rejected Peru's November 2005 unilateral
legislation to shift the axis of their joint treaty-defined maritime
boundaries along the parallels of latitude to equidistance lines
which favor Peru; organized illegal narcotics operations in Colombia
have penetrated Peru's shared border; Peru rejects Bolivia's claim
to restore maritime access through a sovereign corridor through
Chile along the Peruvian border


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

IDPs: 60,000-150,000 (civil war from 1980-2000; most IDPs are
indigenous peasants in Andean and Amazonian regions) (2007)


Illicit drugs:

until 1996 the world's largest coca leaf producer, Peru is now the
world's second largest producer of coca leaf, though it lags far
behind Colombia; cultivation of coca in Peru declined to 36,000
hectares in 2007; second largest producer of cocaine, estimated at
210 metric tons of potential pure cocaine in 2007; finished cocaine
is shipped out from Pacific ports to the international drug market;
increasing amounts of base and finished cocaine, however, are being
moved to Brazil, Chile, Argentina, and Bolivia for use in the
Southern Cone or transshipment to Europe and Africa; increasing
domestic drug consumption



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Philippines

Introduction
Philippines



Background:

The Philippine Islands became a Spanish colony during the 16th
century; they were ceded to the US in 1898 following the
Spanish-American War. In 1935 the Philippines became a
self-governing commonwealth. Manuel QUEZON was elected president and
was tasked with preparing the country for independence after a
10-year transition. In 1942 the islands fell under Japanese
occupation during World War II, and US forces and Filipinos fought
together during 1944-45 to regain control. On 4 July 1946 the
Republic of the Philippines attained its independence. The 20-year
rule of Ferdinand MARCOS ended in 1986, when a "people power"
movement in Manila ("EDSA 1") forced him into exile and installed
Corazon AQUINO as president. Her presidency was hampered by several
coup attempts, which prevented a return to full political stability
and economic development. Fidel RAMOS was elected president in 1992
and his administration was marked by greater stability and progress
on economic reforms. In 1992, the US closed its last military bases
on the islands. Joseph ESTRADA was elected president in 1998, but
was succeeded by his vice-president, Gloria MACAPAGAL-ARROYO, in
January 2001 after ESTRADA's stormy impeachment trial on corruption
charges broke down and another "people power" movement ("EDSA 2")
demanded his resignation. MACAPAGAL-ARROYO was elected to a six-year
term as president in May 2004. The Philippine Government faces
threats from three terrorist groups on the US Government's Foreign
Terrorist Organization list, but in 2006 and 2007 scored some major
successes in capturing or killing key wanted terrorists. Decades of
Muslim insurgency in the southern Philippines have led to a peace
accord with one group and an ongoing cease-fire and peace talks with
another.


Geography
Philippines



Location:

Southeastern Asia, archipelago between the Philippine Sea and the
South China Sea, east of Vietnam


Geographic coordinates:

13 00 N, 122 00 E


Map references:

Southeast Asia


Area:

total: 300,000 sq km
land: 298,170 sq km
water: 1,830 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than Arizona


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

36,289 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: irregular polygon extending up to 100 nm from
coastline as defined by 1898 treaty; since late 1970s has also
claimed polygonal-shaped area in South China Sea up to 285 nm in
breadth
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: to depth of exploitation


Climate:

tropical marine; northeast monsoon (November to April); southwest
monsoon (May to October)


Terrain:

mostly mountains with narrow to extensive coastal lowlands


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Philippine Sea 0 m
highest point: Mount Apo 2,954 m


Natural resources:

timber, petroleum, nickel, cobalt, silver, gold, salt, copper


Land use:

arable land: 19%
permanent crops: 16.67%
other: 64.33% (2005)


Irrigated land:

15,500 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

479 cu km (1999)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 28.52 cu km/yr (17%/9%/74%)
per capita: 343 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

astride typhoon belt, usually affected by 15 and struck by five to
six cyclonic storms per year; landslides; active volcanoes;
destructive earthquakes; tsunamis


Environment - current issues:

uncontrolled deforestation especially in watershed areas; soil
erosion; air and water pollution in major urban centers; coral reef
degradation; increasing pollution of coastal mangrove swamps that
are important fish breeding grounds


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants


Geography - note:

the Philippine archipelago is made up of 7,107 islands; favorably
located in relation to many of Southeast Asia's main water bodies:
the South China Sea, Philippine Sea, Sulu Sea, Celebes Sea, and
Luzon Strait


People
Philippines



Population:

96,061,680 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 35.5% (male 17,392,780/female 16,708,255)
15-64 years: 60.4% (male 28,986,232/female 29,076,329)
65 years and over: 4.1% (male 1,682,485/female 2,215,602) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 22.3 years
male: 21.8 years
female: 22.8 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.991% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

26.42 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

5.15 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-1.36 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.76 male(s)/female
total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 21.2 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 23.86 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 18.42 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 70.8 years
male: 67.89 years
female: 73.85 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

3.32 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

less than 0.1% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

9,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 500 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Filipino(s)
adjective: Philippine


Ethnic groups:

Tagalog 28.1%, Cebuano 13.1%, Ilocano 9%, Bisaya/Binisaya 7.6%,
Hiligaynon Ilonggo 7.5%, Bikol 6%, Waray 3.4%, other 25.3% (2000
census)


Religions:

Roman Catholic 80.9%, Muslim 5%, Evangelical 2.8%, Iglesia ni Kristo
2.3%, Aglipayan 2%, other Christian 4.5%, other 1.8%, unspecified
0.6%, none 0.1% (2000 census)


Languages:

Filipino (official; based on Tagalog) and English (official); eight
major dialects - Tagalog, Cebuano, Ilocano, Hiligaynon or Ilonggo,
Bicol, Waray, Pampango, and Pangasinan


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 92.6%
male: 92.5%
female: 92.7% (2000 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 12 years
male: 11 years
female: 12 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

2.5% of GDP (2005)


Government
Philippines



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of the Philippines
conventional short form: Philippines
local long form: Republika ng Pilipinas
local short form: Pilipinas


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Manila
geographic coordinates: 14 35 N, 121 00 E
time difference: UTC+8 (13 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

81 provinces and 136 chartered cities
provinces: Abra, Agusan del Norte, Agusan del Sur, Aklan, Albay,
Antique, Apayao, Aurora, Basilan, Bataan, Batanes, Batangas,
Biliran, Benguet, Bohol, Bukidnon, Bulacan, Cagayan, Camarines
Norte, Camarines Sur, Camiguin, Capiz, Catanduanes, Cavite, Cebu,
Compostela, Davao del Norte, Davao del Sur, Davao Oriental, Dinagat
Islands, Eastern Samar, Guimaras, Ifugao, Ilocos Norte, Ilocos Sur,
Iloilo, Isabela, Kalinga, Laguna, Lanao del Norte, Lanao del Sur, La
Union, Leyte, Maguindanao, Marinduque, Masbate, Mindoro Occidental,
Mindoro Oriental, Misamis Occidental, Misamis Oriental, Mountain
Province, Negros Occidental, Negros Oriental, North Cotabato,
Northern Samar, Nueva Ecija, Nueva Vizcaya, Palawan, Pampanga,
Pangasinan, Quezon, Quirino, Rizal, Romblon, Samar, Sarangani,
Shariff Kabunsuan, Siquijor, Sorsogon, South Cotabato, Southern
Leyte, Sultan Kudarat, Sulu, Surigao del Norte, Surigao del Sur,
Tarlac, Tawi-Tawi, Zambales, Zamboanga del Norte, Zamboanga del Sur,
Zamboanga Sibugay
chartered cities: Alaminos, Angeles, Antipolo, Bacolod, Bago,
Baguio, Bais, Balanga, Batac, Batangas, Bayawan, Baybay, Bayugan,
Bislig, Bogo, Borongan, Butuan, Cabadbaran, Cabanatuan, Cadiz,
Cagayan de Oro, Calamba, Calapan, Calbayog, Candon, Canlaon, Carcar,
Catbalogan, Cauayan, Cavite, Cebu, Cotabato, Dagupan, Danao,
Dapitan, Davao, Digos, Dipolog, Dumaguete, Escalante, El Salvador,
Gapan, General Santos, Gingoog, Guihulngan, Himamaylan, Iligan,
Iloilo, Isabela, Iriga, Kabankalan, Kalookan, Kidapawan, Koronadal,
La Carlota, Lamitan, Laoag, Lapu-Lapu, Las Pinas, Legazpi, Ligao,
Lipa, Lucena, Maasin, Makati, Malabon, Malaybalay, Malolos,
Mandaluyong, Mandaue, Manila, Marawi, Marikina, Masbate, Mati,
Meycauayan, Muntinlupa, Munoz, Naga (Camarines Sur), Naga (Cebu),
Navotas, Olongapo, Ormoc, Oroquieta, Ozamis, Pagadian, Palayan,
Panabo, Paranaque, Pasay, Pasig, Passi, Puerto Princesa, Quezon,
Roxas, Sagay, Samal, San Carlos (in Negros Occidental), San Carlos
(in Pangasinan), San Fernando (in La Union), San Fernando (in
Pampanga), San Jose, San Jose del Monte, San Juan, San Pablo, Santa
Rosa, Santiago, Silay, Sipalay, Sorsogon, Surigao, Tabaco, Tabuk,
Tacloban, Tacurong, Tagaytay, Tagbilaran, Taguig, Tagum, Talisay (in
Cebu), Talisay (in Negros Occidental), Tanauan, Tandag, Tangub,
Tanjay, Tarlac, Tayabas, Toledo, Tuguegarao, Trece Martires,
Urdaneta, Valencia, Valenzuela, Victorias, Vigan, Zamboanga (2007)


Independence:

12 June 1898 (independence proclaimed from Spain); 4 July 1946 (from
the US)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 12 June (1898); note - 12 June 1898 was date of
declaration of independence from Spain; 4 July 1946 was date of
independence from US


Constitution:

2 February 1987, effective 11 February 1987


Legal system:

based on Spanish and Anglo-American law; accepts compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Gloria MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (since 20 January
2001); note - president is both chief of state and head of government
head of government: President Gloria MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (since 20
January 2001)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president with consent of
Commission of Appointments
elections: president and vice president (Manuel "Noli" DE CASTRO)
elected on separate tickets by popular vote for a single six-year
term; election last held on 10 May 2004 (next to be held in May 2010)
election results: Gloria MACAPAGAL-ARROYO elected president; percent
of vote - Gloria MACAPAGAL-ARROYO 40%, Fernando POE 37%, three
others 23%


Legislative branch:

bicameral Congress or Kongreso consists of the Senate or Senado (24
seats - one-half elected every three years; members elected at large
by popular vote to serve six-year terms) and the House of
Representatives or Kapulungan Ng Mga Kinatawan (as a result of May
2007 election it has 239 seats including 218 members representing
districts and 21 sectoral party-list members representing special
minorities elected on the basis of 1 seat for every 2% of the total
vote but limited to 3 seats; members elected by popular vote to
serve three-year terms; note - the Constitution prohibits the House
of Representatives from having more than 250 members)
elections: Senate - last held on 14 May 2007 (next to be held in May
2010); House of Representatives - elections last held on 14 May 2007
(next to be held in May 2010)
election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - Lakas-Kampi 4, LP 4, NPC 3, Nacionalista 2, independents 4,
others 6; note - there are 23 rather than 24 sitting senators
because one senator was elected mayor of Manila; House of
Representatives - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
Lakas 86, Kampi 46, NPC 29, LP 21, Party-list 21, others 36


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (15 justices are appointed by the president on the
recommendation of the Judicial and Bar Council and serve until 70
years of age); Court of Appeals; Sandigan-bayan (special court for
hearing corruption cases of government officials)


Political parties and leaders:

Genuine Opposition or GO (coalition of oppositon parties formed to
contest the 2007 elections); Kabalikat Ng Malayang Pilipino or Kampi
[Ronaldo PUNO]; Laban Ng Demokratikong Pilipino (Struggle of
Filipino Democrats) or LDP [Edgardo ANGARA]; Lakas Ng Edsa (National
Union of Christian Democrats) or Lakas [Jose DE VENECIA]; Liberal
Party or LP [Manuel ROXAS]; Nacionalista [Manuel VILLAR]; National
People's Coalition or NPC [Frisco SAN JUAN]; PDP-Laban [Aquilino
PIMENTEL]; People's Reform Party [Miriam Defensor SANTIAGO]; PROMDI
[Emilio OSMENA]; Pwersa Ng Masang Pilipino (Party of the Philippine
Masses) or PMP [Joseph ESTRADA]; Reporma [Renato DE VILLA]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

AKBAYAN [Etta ROSALES, Mario AGUJA, and Risa HONTIVEROS-BARAQUIEL];
ALAGAD [Rodante MARROLITA]; ALIF [Acmad TOMAWIS]; An Waray [Horencio
NOEL]; Anak Mindanao [Mujiv HATAMIN]; ANAKPAWIS [Crispin BELTRAN and
Rafael MARIANO]; Association of Philippine Electric Cooperatives
(APEC) [Sunny Rose MADAMBA, Ernesto PABLO, and Edgar VALDEZ]; AVE
[Eulogio MAGSAYSAY]; Bayan Muna [Satur OCAMPO, Joel VIRADOR, and
Teodoro CASINO, Jr.]; BUHAY [Rene VELARDE and Hans Christian
SENERES]; BUTIL [Benjamin CRUZ]; CIBAC [Emmanuel Joel VILLANUEVA];
COOP-NATCO [Guillermo CUA]; GABRIELA [Liza MAZA]; Partido Ng
Manggagawa [Renato MAGTUBO]; Veterans Federation of the Philippines
[Ernesto GIDAYA]


International organization participation:

ADB, APEC, APT, ARF, ASEAN, BIS, CP, EAS, FAO, G-24, G-77, IAEA,
IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO,
ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC,
MIGA, MINUSTAH, NAM, OAS (observer), OPCW, PIF (partner), UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNMIT,
UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Willy C. GAA
chancery: 1600 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036
telephone: [1] (202) 467-9300
FAX: [1] (202) 467-9417
consulate(s) general: Chicago, Honolulu, Los Angeles, New York, San
Francisco, Saipan (Northern Mariana Islands), Tamuning (Guam)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Kristie A. KENNEY
embassy: 1201 Roxas Boulevard, Ermita 1000, Manila
mailing address: PSC 500, FPO AP 96515-1000
telephone: [63] (2) 301-2000
FAX: [63] (2) 301-2399


Flag description:

two equal horizontal bands of blue (top; representing peace and
justice) and red (representing courage); a white equilateral
triangle based on the hoist side represents equality; the center of
the triangle displays a yellow sun with eight primary rays, each
representing one of the first eight provinces that sought
independence from Spain; each corner of the triangle contains a
small, yellow, five-pointed star representing the three major
geographical divisions of the country: Luzon, Visayas, and Mindanao;
the design of the flag dates to 1897; in wartime the flag is flown
upside down with the red band at the top


Economy
Philippines



Economy - overview:

The Philippine economy grew at its fastest pace in three decades
with real GDP growth exceeding 7% in 2007. Higher government
spending contributed to the growth, but a resilient service sector
and large remittances from the millions of Filipinos who work abroad
have played an increasingly important role. Economic growth has
averaged 5% since President MACAPAGAL-ARROYO took office in 2001.
Nevertheless, the Philippines will need still higher, sustained
growth to make progress in alleviating poverty, given its high
population growth and unequal distribution of income.
MACAPAGAL-ARROYO averted a fiscal crisis by pushing for new revenue
measures and, until recently, tightening expenditures. Declining
fiscal deficits, tapering debt and debt service ratios, as well as
recent efforts to increase spending on infrastructure and social
services have heightened optimism over Philippine economic
prospects. Although the general macroeconomic outlook has improved
significantly, the Philippines continues to face important
challenges and must maintain the reform momentum in order to catch
up with regional competitors, improve employment opportunities, and
alleviate poverty. Longer-term fiscal stability will require more
sustainable revenue sources, rather than non-recurring revenues from
privatization.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$300.1 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$144.1 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

7.3% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$3,200 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 13.8%
industry: 31.7%
services: 54.5% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

36.22 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 35%
industry: 15%
services: 50% (2007 est.)


Unemployment rate:

7.3% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

30% (2003 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.4%
highest 10%: 31.2% (2006)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

45.8 (2006)


Investment (gross fixed):

14.8% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $24.63 billion
expenditures: $24.9 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

55.8% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.8% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

4.28% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

8.69% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$21.27 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$65.85 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$65.66 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

sugarcane, coconuts, rice, corn, bananas, cassavas, pineapples,
mangoes; pork, eggs, beef; fish


Industries:

electronics assembly, garments, footwear, pharmaceuticals,
chemicals, wood products, food processing, petroleum refining,
fishing


Industrial production growth rate:

7.1% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

56.51 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

47.04 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 55.6%
hydro: 17.5%
nuclear: 0%
other: 26.9% (2001)


Oil - production:

23,930 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

340,100 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

41,160 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

355,800 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

138.5 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

2.2 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

2.2 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

98.54 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$6.351 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$49.32 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

semiconductors and electronic products, transport equipment,
garments, copper products, petroleum products, coconut oil, fruits


Exports - partners:

US 17%, Japan 14.5%, Hong Kong 11.5%, China 11.4%, Netherlands 8.2%,
Singapore 6.2%, Malaysia 5%, Germany 4.3% (2007)


Imports:

$57.56 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

electronic products, mineral fuels, machinery and transport
equipment, iron and steel, textile fabrics, grains, chemicals,
plastic


Imports - partners:

US 14.1%, Japan 12.3%, Singapore 11.2%, Taiwan 7.3%, China 7.2%,
Saudi Arabia 6.4%, South Korea 5.9%, Malaysia 4.1%, Thailand 4.1%
(2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

ODA, $451.4 million in commitments (2006)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$33.75 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$61.78 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$19.88 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$5.584 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$103.4 billion (2007)


Currency (code):

Philippine peso (PHP)


Currency code:

PHP


Exchange rates:

Philippine pesos (PHP) per US dollar - 46.148 (2007), 51.246 (2006),
55.086 (2005), 56.04 (2004), 54.203 (2003)


Communications
Philippines



Telephones - main lines in use:

3.633 million (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

51.795 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: good international radiotelephone and submarine
cable services; domestic and interisland service adequate
domestic: domestic satellite system with 11 earth stations; cellular
communications now dominate the industry; combined fixed-line and
mobile-cellular telephone density about 60 telephones per 100 persons
international: country code - 63; a series of submarine cables
together provide connectivity to Asia, US, the Middle East, and
Europe; multiple international gateways (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 381, FM 628, shortwave 4 (each shortwave station operates on
multiple frequencies in the language of the target audience) (2007)


Radios:

11.5 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

250 (plus 1,501 CATV networks) (2007)


Televisions:

3.7 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.ph


Internet hosts:

283,579 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

33 (2000)


Internet users:

5.3 million (2007)


Transportation
Philippines



Airports:

255 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 84
over 3,047 m: 4
2,438 to 3,047 m: 8
1,524 to 2,437 m: 26
914 to 1,523 m: 36
under 914 m: 10 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 171
1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
914 to 1,523 m: 68
under 914 m: 99 (2007)


Heliports:

2 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 565 km; oil 135 km; refined products 105 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 897 km
narrow gauge: 897 km 1.067-m gauge (492 km are in operation) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 200,037 km
paved: 19,804 km
unpaved: 180,233 km (2003)


Waterways:

3,219 km (limited to vessels with draft less than 1.5 m) (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 391
by type: bulk carrier 75, cargo 125, carrier 16, chemical tanker 17,
container 6, liquefied gas 5, passenger 6, passenger/cargo 68,
petroleum tanker 36, refrigerated cargo 15, roll on/roll off 11,
vehicle carrier 11
foreign-owned: 161 (Bermuda 34, China 4, Greece 4, Hong Kong 1,
Japan 81, Malaysia 1, Netherlands 23, Norway 10, Singapore 1, Taiwan
1, UAE 1)
registered in other countries: 11 (Comoros 1, Cyprus 1, Hong Kong 1,
Indonesia 1, Panama 7) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Cagayan de Oro, Cebu, Davao, Liman, Manila, Nasipit Harbor


Transportation - note:

the International Maritime Bureau reports the territorial and
offshore waters in the South China Sea as high risk for piracy and
armed robbery against ships; numerous commercial vessels have been
attacked and hijacked both at anchor and while underway; hijacked
vessels are often disguised and cargo diverted to ports in East
Asia; crews have been murdered or cast adrift


Military
Philippines



Military branches:

Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP): Army, Navy (includes Marine
Corps), Air Force (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18-25 years of age (officers 21-29) for compulsory and voluntary
military service; applicants must be single male or female
Philippine citizens (2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 23,547,252
females age 16-49: 23,177,487 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 18,232,050
females age 16-49: 19,827,538 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 1,012,779
female: 977,030 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0.9% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Philippines



Disputes - international:

Philippines claims sovereignty over certain of the Spratly Islands,
known locally as the Kalayaan (Freedom) Islands, also claimed by
China, Malaysia, Taiwan, and Vietnam; the 2002 "Declaration on the
Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea," has eased tensions in
the Spratly Islands but falls short of a legally binding "code of
conduct" desired by several of the disputants; in March 2005, the
national oil companies of China, the Philippines, and Vietnam signed
a joint accord to conduct marine seismic activities in the Spratly
Islands; Philippines retains a dormant claim to Malaysia's Sabah
State in northern Borneo based on the Sultanate of Sulu's granting
the Philippines Government power of attorney to pursue a sovereignty
claim on his behalf; maritime delimitation negotiations continue
with Palau


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

IDPs: 300,000 (fighting between government troops and MILF and Abu
Sayyaf groups) (2007)


Illicit drugs:

domestic methamphetamine production has been a growing problem in
recent years despite government crackdowns; major consumer of
amphetamines; longstanding marijuana producer mainly in rural areas
where Manila's control is limited



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Pitcairn Islands

Introduction
Pitcairn Islands



Background:

Pitcairn Island was discovered in 1767 by the British and settled in
1790 by the Bounty mutineers and their Tahitian companions. Pitcairn
was the first Pacific island to become a British colony (in 1838)
and today remains the last vestige of that empire in the South
Pacific. Outmigration, primarily to New Zealand, has thinned the
population from a peak of 233 in 1937 to less than 50 today.


Geography
Pitcairn Islands



Location:

Oceania, islands in the South Pacific Ocean, about midway between
Peru and New Zealand


Geographic coordinates:

25 04 S, 130 06 W


Map references:

Oceania


Area:

total: 47 sq km
land: 47 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

about 0.3 times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

51 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 3 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; hot and humid; modified by southeast trade winds; rainy
season (November to March)


Terrain:

rugged volcanic formation; rocky coastline with cliffs


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: Pawala Valley Ridge 347 m


Natural resources:

miro trees (used for handicrafts), fish
note: manganese, iron, copper, gold, silver, and zinc have been
discovered offshore


Land use:

arable land: NA
permanent crops: NA
other: NA


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

typhoons (especially November to March)


Environment - current issues:

deforestation (only a small portion of the original forest remains
because of burning and clearing for settlement)


Geography - note:

Britain's most isolated dependency; only the larger island of
Pitcairn is inhabited but it has no port or natural harbor; supplies
must be transported by rowed longboat from larger ships stationed
offshore


People
Pitcairn Islands



Population:

48 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: NA
15-64 years: NA
65 years and over: NA


Population growth rate:

0% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Death rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

NA


Infant mortality rate:

total: NA
male: NA
female: NA (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: NA
male: NA
female: NA (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

NA (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Pitcairn Islander(s)
adjective: Pitcairn Islander


Ethnic groups:

descendants of the Bounty mutineers and their Tahitian wives


Religions:

Seventh-Day Adventist 100%


Languages:

English (official), Pitkern (mixture of an 18th century English
dialect and a Tahitian dialect)


Literacy:

NA


Government
Pitcairn Islands



Country name:

conventional long form: Pitcairn, Henderson, Ducie, and Oeno Islands
conventional short form: Pitcairn Islands


Dependency status:

overseas territory of the UK


Government type:

NA


Capital:

name: Adamstown
geographic coordinates: 25 04 S, 130 05 W
time difference: UTC-9 (4 hours behind Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


Independence:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


National holiday:

Birthday of Queen ELIZABETH II, second Saturday in June (1926)


Constitution:

30 November 1838; reformed 1904 with additional reforms in 1940;
further refined by the Local Government Ordinance of 1964


Legal system:

local island by-laws


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal with three years residency


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by UK High Commissioner to New Zealand and Governor
(nonresident) of the Pitcairn Islands George FERGUSSON (since April
2006); Commissioner (nonresident) Leslie JAQUES (since September
2003) serves as liaison between the governor and the Island Council
head of government: Governor George FERGUSSON (since April 2006);
Mayor and Chairman of the Island Council Mike WARREN (since 1
January 2008)
cabinet: NA
elections: the monarchy is hereditary; governor and commissioner
appointed by the monarch; island mayor elected by popular vote for a
three-year term; election last held December 2004 (next to be held
in December 2007)
election results: Jay WARREN elected mayor and chairman of the
Island Council


Legislative branch:

unicameral Island Council (10 seats; 5 members elected by popular
vote, 1 nominated by the 5 elected members, 2 appointed by the
governor including 1 seat for the Island Secretary, the Island
Mayor, and a commissioner liaising between the governor and council;
elected members serve one-year terms)
elections: last held 24 December 2006 (next to be held in December
2007)
election results: percent of vote - NA; seats - all independents


Judicial branch:

Magistrate's Court; Supreme Court; Court of Appeal; Judicial
Officers are appointed by the Governor


Political parties and leaders:

none


Political pressure groups and leaders:

none


International organization participation:

SPC, UPU


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


Flag description:

blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and
the Pitcairn Islander coat of arms centered on the outer half of the
flag; the coat of arms is yellow, green, and light blue with a
shield featuring a yellow anchor


Economy
Pitcairn Islands



Economy - overview:

The inhabitants of this tiny isolated economy exist on fishing,
subsistence farming, handicrafts, and postage stamps. The fertile
soil of the valleys produces a wide variety of fruits and
vegetables, including citrus, sugarcane, watermelons, bananas, yams,
and beans. Bartering is an important part of the economy. The major
sources of revenue are the sale of postage stamps to collectors and
the sale of handicrafts to passing ships. In October 2004, more than
one-quarter of Pitcairn's small labor force was arrested, putting
the economy in a bind, since their services were required as lighter
crew to load or unload passing ships.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$NA


Labor force:

15 able-bodied men (2004)


Labor force - by occupation:

note: no business community in the usual sense; some public works;
subsistence farming and fishing


Budget:

revenues: $746,000
expenditures: $1.028 million (FY04/05)


Fiscal year:

1 April - 31 March


Agriculture - products:

honey; wide variety of fruits and vegetables; goats, chickens, fish


Industries:

postage stamps, handicrafts, beekeeping, honey


Electricity - production:

NA kWh; note - electric power is provided by a small diesel-powered
generator


Exports:

$NA


Exports - commodities:

fruits, vegetables, curios, stamps


Imports:

$NA


Imports - commodities:

fuel oil, machinery, building materials, flour, sugar, other
foodstuffs


Economic aid - recipient:

$3.465 million (2004)


Currency (code):

New Zealand dollar (NZD)


Currency code:

NZD


Exchange rates:

New Zealand dollars (NZD) per US dollar - 1.3811 (2007), 1.5408
(2006), 1.4203 (2005), 1.5087 (2004), 1.7221 (2003)


Communications
Pitcairn Islands



Telephones - main lines in use:

1 (there are 17 telephones on one party line); (2004)


Telephone system:

general assessment: satellite phone services
domestic: domestic communication via radio (CB)
international: country code - 872; satellite earth station - 1
(Inmarsat)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 0, shortwave 0 (15 Ham radio operators (VP6)) (2004)


Radios:

NA


Televisions:

NA


Internet country code:

.pn


Internet hosts:

12 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

NA


Internet users:

NA


Transportation
Pitcairn Islands



Ports and terminals:

Adamstown (on Bounty Bay)


Military
Pitcairn Islands



Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of the UK


Transnational Issues
Pitcairn Islands



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Poland

Introduction
Poland



Background:

Poland is an ancient nation that was conceived near the middle of
the 10th century. Its golden age occurred in the 16th century.
During the following century, the strengthening of the gentry and
internal disorders weakened the nation. In a series of agreements
between 1772 and 1795, Russia, Prussia, and Austria partitioned
Poland amongst themselves. Poland regained its independence in 1918
only to be overrun by Germany and the Soviet Union in World War II.
It became a Soviet satellite state following the war, but its
government was comparatively tolerant and progressive. Labor turmoil
in 1980 led to the formation of the independent trade union
"Solidarity" that over time became a political force and by 1990 had
swept parliamentary elections and the presidency. A "shock therapy"
program during the early 1990s enabled the country to transform its
economy into one of the most robust in Central Europe, but Poland
still faces the lingering challenges of high unemployment,
underdeveloped and dilapidated infrastructure, and a poor rural
underclass. Solidarity suffered a major defeat in the 2001
parliamentary elections when it failed to elect a single deputy to
the lower house of Parliament, and the new leaders of the Solidarity
Trade Union subsequently pledged to reduce the Trade Union's
political role. Poland joined NATO in 1999 and the European Union in
2004. With its transformation to a democratic, market-oriented
country largely completed, Poland is an increasingly active member
of Euro-Atlantic organizations.


Geography
Poland



Location:

Central Europe, east of Germany


Geographic coordinates:

52 00 N, 20 00 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 312,679 sq km
land: 304,459 sq km
water: 8,220 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than New Mexico


Land boundaries:

total: 3,047 km
border countries: Belarus 605 km, Czech Republic 615 km, Germany 456
km, Lithuania 91 km, Russia (Kaliningrad Oblast) 432 km, Slovakia
420 km, Ukraine 428 km


Coastline:

440 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: defined by international treaties


Climate:

temperate with cold, cloudy, moderately severe winters with frequent
precipitation; mild summers with frequent showers and thundershowers


Terrain:

mostly flat plain; mountains along southern border


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: near Raczki Elblaskie -2 m
highest point: Rysy 2,499 m


Natural resources:

coal, sulfur, copper, natural gas, silver, lead, salt, amber, arable
land


Land use:

arable land: 40.25%
permanent crops: 1%
other: 58.75% (2005)


Irrigated land:

1,000 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

63.1 cu km (2005)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 11.73 cu km/yr (13%/79%/8%)
per capita: 304 cu m/yr (2002)


Natural hazards:

flooding


Environment - current issues:

situation has improved since 1989 due to decline in heavy industry
and increased environmental concern by post-Communist governments;
air pollution nonetheless remains serious because of sulfur dioxide
emissions from coal-fired power plants, and the resulting acid rain
has caused forest damage; water pollution from industrial and
municipal sources is also a problem, as is disposal of hazardous
wastes; pollution levels should continue to decrease as industrial
establishments bring their facilities up to EU code, but at
substantial cost to business and the government


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol,
Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic
Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
Hazardous Wastes, Kyoto Protocol, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94


Geography - note:

historically, an area of conflict because of flat terrain and the
lack of natural barriers on the North European Plain


People
Poland



Population:

38,500,696 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 15.2% (male 3,013,109/female 2,849,977)
15-64 years: 71.4% (male 13,681,481/female 13,808,412)
65 years and over: 13.4% (male 1,964,477/female 3,183,240) (2008
est.)


Median age:

total: 37.6 years
male: 35.8 years
female: 39.5 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

-0.045% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

10.01 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

9.99 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-0.46 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.62 male(s)/female
total population: 0.94 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 6.93 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 7.66 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 6.17 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 75.41 years
male: 71.42 years
female: 79.65 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.27 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.1%; note - no country specific models provided (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

14,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

100 (2001 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: intermediate
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea
vectorborne disease: tickborne encephalitis
note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Pole(s)
adjective: Polish


Ethnic groups:

Polish 96.7%, German 0.4%, Belarusian 0.1%, Ukrainian 0.1%, other
and unspecified 2.7% (2002 census)


Religions:

Roman Catholic 89.8% (about 75% practicing), Eastern Orthodox 1.3%,
Protestant 0.3%, other 0.3%, unspecified 8.3% (2002)


Languages:

Polish 97.8%, other and unspecified 2.2% (2002 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99.8%
male: 99.8%
female: 99.7% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 15 years
male: 15 years
female: 16 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

5.5% of GDP (2005)


Government
Poland



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Poland
conventional short form: Poland
local long form: Rzeczpospolita Polska
local short form: Polska


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Warsaw
geographic coordinates: 52 15 N, 21 00 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

16 provinces (wojewodztwa, singular - wojewodztwo); Dolnoslaskie
(Lower Silesia), Kujawsko-Pomorskie (Kuyavia-Pomerania), Lodzkie,
Lubelskie (Lublin), Lubuskie (Lubusz), Malopolskie (Lesser Poland),
Mazowieckie (Masovia), Opolskie, Podkarpackie (Subcarpathia),
Podlaskie, Pomorskie (Pomerania), Slaskie (Silesia), Swietokrzyskie,
Warminsko-Mazurskie (Warmia-Masuria), Wielkopolskie (Greater
Poland), Zachodniopomorskie (West Pomerania)


Independence:

11 November 1918 (republic proclaimed)


National holiday:

Constitution Day, 3 May (1791)


Constitution:

adopted by the National Assembly 2 April 1997; passed by national
referendum 25 May 1997; effective 17 October 1997


Legal system:

based on a mixture of Continental (Napoleonic) civil law and
holdover Communist legal theory; changes being gradually introduced
as part of broader democratization process; limited judicial review
of legislative acts, but rulings of the Constitutional Tribunal are
final; court decisions can be appealed to the European Court of
Justice in Strasbourg; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with
reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Lech KACZYNSKI (since 23 December 2005)
head of government: Prime Minister Donald TUSK (since 16 November
2007); Deputy Prime Ministers Waldemar PAWLAK (since 16 November
2007) and Grzegorz SCHETYNA (since 16 November 2007)
cabinet: Council of Ministers responsible to the prime minister and
the Sejm; the prime minister proposes, the president appoints, and
the Sejm approves the Council of Ministers
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 9 and 23 October
2005 (next to be held in the fall 2010); prime minister and deputy
prime ministers appointed by the president and confirmed by the Sejm
election results: Lech KACZYNSKI elected president; percent of
popular vote - Lech KACZYNSKI 54%, Donald Tusk 46%


Legislative branch:

bicameral legislature consists of an upper house, the Senate or
Senat (100 seats; members are elected by a majority vote on a
provincial basis to serve four-year terms), and a lower house, the
Sejm (460 seats; members are elected under a complex system of
proportional representation to serve four-year terms); the
designation of National Assembly or Zgromadzenie Narodowe is only
used on those rare occasions when the two houses meet jointly
elections: Senate - last held 21 October 2007 (next to be held by
October 2011); Sejm elections last held 21 October 2007 (next to be
held by October 2011)
election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - PO 60, PiS 39, independents 1; Sejm - percent of vote by
party - PO 41.5%, PiS 32.1%, LiD 13.2%, PSL 8.9%, other 4.3%; seats
by party - PO 209, PiS 166, LiD 53, PSL 31, German minorities 1;
note - seats by party as of February 2008 - PO 209, PiS 159, LiD 53,
PSL 31, German minorities 1, nonaffiliated 7
note: one seat is assigned to ethnic minority parties in the Sejm
only


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the president on the
recommendation of the National Council of the Judiciary for an
indefinite period); Constitutional Tribunal (judges are chosen by
the Sejm for nine-year terms)


Political parties and leaders:

Civic Platform or PO [Donald TUSK]; Democratic Left Alliance or SLD
[Grzegorz NAPIERALSKI]; Democratic Party or PD [Janusz
ONYSZKIEWICZ]; German Minority of Lower Silesia or MNSO [Henryk
KROLL]; Law and Justice or PiS [Jaroslaw KACZYNSKI]; League of
Polish Families or LPR [Sylwester CHRUSZCZ]; Left and Democrats or
LiD [Wojciech OLEJNICZAK] (a coalition formed by the SLD, PD, SDPL,
and UP); Polish People's Party or PSL [Waldemar PAWLAK]; Samoobrona
or SO [Andrzej LEPPER]; Social Democratic Party of Poland or SDPL
[Bartosz DOMINIK, acting]; Union of Labor or UP [Andrzej SPYCHALSKI]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

All Poland Trade Union Alliance or OPZZ (trade union) [Jan GUZ];
Roman Catholic Church [Cardinal Stanislaw DZIWISZ, Archbishop Jozef
MICHALIK]; Solidarity Trade Union [Janusz SNIADEK]


International organization participation:

Arctic Council (observer), Australia Group, BIS, BSEC (observer),
CBSS, CE, CEI, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, ESA (cooperating state), EU,
FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFC, IFRCS, IHO,
ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC,
MIGA, MINURCAT, MINURSO, MONUC, NAM (guest), NATO, NSG, OAS
(observer), OECD, OIF (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PCA, Schengen
Convention, SECI (observer), UN, UNCTAD, UNDOF, UNESCO, UNHCR,
UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOCI, UNOMIG, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO,
WEU (associate), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Robert KUPIECKI
chancery: 2640 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20009
telephone: [1] (202) 234-3800 through 3802
FAX: [1] (202) 328-6271
consulate(s) general: Chicago, Los Angeles, New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Victor ASHE
embassy: Aleje Ujazdowskie 29/31 00-540 Warsaw
mailing address: American Embassy Warsaw, US Department of State,
Washington, DC 20521-5010 (pouch)
telephone: [48] (22) 504-2000
FAX: [48] (22) 504-2688
consulate(s) general: Krakow


Flag description:

two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and red; similar to the
flags of Indonesia and Monaco which are red (top) and white


Economy
Poland



Economy - overview:

Poland has pursued a policy of economic liberalization since 1990
and today stands out as a success story among transition economies.
In 2007, GDP grew an estimated 6.5%, based on rising private
consumption, a jump in corporate investment, and EU funds inflows.
GDP per capita is still much below the EU average, but is similar to
that of the three Baltic states. Since 2004, EU membership and
access to EU structural funds have provided a major boost to the
economy. Unemployment is falling rapidly, though at roughly 12.8% in
2007, it remains well above the EU average. Tightening labor
markets, and rising global energy and food prices, pose a risk to
consumer price stability. In December 2007 inflation reached 4.1% on
a year-over-year basis, or higher than the upper limit of the
National Bank of Poland's target range. Poland's economic
performance could improve further if the country addresses some of
the remaining deficiencies in its business environment. An
inefficient commercial court system, a rigid labor code,
bureaucratic red tape, and persistent low-level corruption keep the
private sector from performing up to its full potential. Rising
demands to fund health care, education, and the state pension system
present a challenge to the Polish government's effort to hold the
consolidated public sector budget deficit under 3.0% of GDP, a
target which was achieved in 2007. The PO/PSL coalition government
which came to power in November 2007 plans to further reduce the
budget deficit with the aim of eventually adopting the euro. The new
government has also announced its intention to enact
business-friendly reforms, reduce public sector spending growth,
lower taxes, and accelerate privatization. However, the government
does not have the necessary three-fifths majority needed to override
a presidential veto, and thus may have to water down initiatives in
order to garner enough support to pass its pro-business policies.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$623.1 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$420.3 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6.6% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$16,200 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 4.1%
industry: 31.6%
services: 64.4% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

16.86 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 16.1%
industry: 29%
services: 54.9% (2002)


Unemployment rate:

12.8% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

17% (2003 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 3.1%
highest 10%: 27% (2002)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

36 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

21.7% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $85.39 billion
expenditures: $91.16 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

43.1% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.5% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

5% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

5.48% (31 December 2006)


Stock of money:

$137.4 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$93.99 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$223.2 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

potatoes, fruits, vegetables, wheat; poultry, eggs, pork, dairy


Industries:

machine building, iron and steel, coal mining, chemicals,
shipbuilding, food processing, glass, beverages, textiles


Industrial production growth rate:

8.9% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

149.3 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

126.2 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

13.11 billion kWh (2007)


Electricity - imports:

7.761 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 98.1%
hydro: 1.5%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0.4% (2001)


Oil - production:

37,670 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

524,000 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

57,920 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

499,200 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

96.38 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

6.025 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

16.38 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

45 million cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

10.12 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

164.8 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$15.91 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$144.6 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

machinery and transport equipment 37.8%, intermediate manufactured
goods 23.7%, miscellaneous manufactured goods 17.1%, food and live
animals 7.6% (2003)


Exports - partners:

Germany 25.9%, Italy 6.6%, France 6.1%, UK 5.9%, Czech Republic
5.5%, Russia 4.6% (2007)


Imports:

$160.2 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and transport equipment 38%, intermediate manufactured
goods 21%, chemicals 14.8%, minerals, fuels, lubricants, and related
materials 9.1% (2003)


Imports - partners:

Germany 29%, Russia 8.7%, Italy 6.6%, Netherlands 5.7%, France 5.1%,
China 4.2% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$1.524 billion in available EU structural adjustment and cohesion
funds (2004)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$65.75 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$169.8 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$143 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$19.69 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$149.1 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

zloty (PLN)


Currency code:

PLN


Exchange rates:

zlotych (PLN) per US dollar - 2.81 (2007), 3.1032 (2006), 3.2355
(2005), 3.6576 (2004), 3.8891 (2003)
note: zlotych is the plural form of zloty


Communications
Poland



Telephones - main lines in use:

10.336 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

41.389 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: modernization of the telecommunications network
has accelerated with market based competition finalized in 2003;
fixed-line service, dominated by the former state-owned company, is
dwarfed by the growth in wireless telephony
domestic: mobile-cellular service available since 1993 and provided
by three nation-wide networks with a fourth provider beginning
operations in late 2006; cellular coverage is generally good with
some gaps in the east; fixed-line service is growing slowly and
still lags in rural areas
international: country code - 48; international direct dialing with
automated exchanges; satellite earth station - 1 with access to
Intelsat, Eutelsat, Inmarsat, and Intersputnik (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 14, FM 777, shortwave 1 (1998)


Radios:

20.2 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

40 (2006)


Televisions:

13.05 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.pl


Internet hosts:

7.808 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

19 (2000)


Internet users:

16 million (2007)


Transportation
Poland



Airports:

123 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 83
over 3,047 m: 4
2,438 to 3,047 m: 30
1,524 to 2,437 m: 39
914 to 1,523 m: 7
under 914 m: 3 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 40
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
914 to 1,523 m: 13
under 914 m: 22 (2007)


Heliports:

7 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 13,552 km; oil 1,384 km; refined products 777 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 23,072 km
broad gauge: 629 km 1.524-m gauge
standard gauge: 22,443 km 1.435-m gauge (20,555 km operational;
11,910 km electrified) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 423,997 km
paved: 295,356 km (includes 662 km of expressways)
unpaved: 128,641 km (2006)


Waterways:

3,997 km (navigable rivers and canals) (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 15
by type: cargo 8, chemical tanker 4, passenger/cargo 1, roll on/roll
off 1, vehicle carrier 1
foreign-owned: 2 (Cyprus 1, Nigeria 1)
registered in other countries: 98 (Antigua and Barbuda 2, Bahamas
17, Cyprus 18, Liberia 13, Malta 24, Norway 3, Panama 11, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines 1, Slovakia 2, Vanuatu 7) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Gdansk, Gdynia, Swinoujscie, Szczecin


Military
Poland



Military branches:

Polish Armed Forces: Land Forces (includes Navy (Marynarka Wojenna,
MW)), Polish Air Force (Sily Powietrzne Rzeczypospolitej Polskiej,
SPRP) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

17 years of age for male compulsory military service after January
1st of the year of 18th birthday; 17 years of age for voluntary
military service; conscript service obligation shortened from 12 to
9 months in 2005; by 2008, plans call for at least 60% of military
personnel to be volunteers; only soldiers who have completed their
conscript service are allowed to volunteer for professional service;
as of April 2004, women are only allowed to serve as officers and
noncommissioned officers (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 9,741,508
females age 16-49: 9,514,843 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 7,937,840
females age 16-49: 7,949,677 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 257,605
female: 245,832 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.71% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Poland



Disputes - international:

as a member state that forms part of the EU's external border,
Poland has implemented the strict Schengen border rules to restrict
illegal immigration and trade along its eastern borders with Belarus
and Ukraine


Illicit drugs:

despite diligent counternarcotics measures and international
information sharing on cross-border crimes, a major illicit producer
of synthetic drugs for the international market; minor transshipment
point for Southwest Asian heroin and Latin American cocaine to
Western Europe



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Portugal

Introduction
Portugal



Background:

Following its heyday as a world power during the 15th and 16th
centuries, Portugal lost much of its wealth and status with the
destruction of Lisbon in a 1755 earthquake, occupation during the
Napoleonic Wars, and the independence in 1822 of Brazil as a colony.
A 1910 revolution deposed the monarchy; for most of the next six
decades, repressive governments ran the country. In 1974, a
left-wing military coup installed broad democratic reforms. The
following year, Portugal granted independence to all of its African
colonies. Portugal is a founding member of NATO and entered the EC
(now the EU) in 1986.


Geography
Portugal



Location:

Southwestern Europe, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean, west of
Spain


Geographic coordinates:

39 30 N, 8 00 W


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 92,391 sq km
land: 91,951 sq km
water: 440 sq km
note: includes Azores and Madeira Islands


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Indiana


Land boundaries:

total: 1,214 km
border countries: Spain 1,214 km


Coastline:

1,793 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation


Climate:

maritime temperate; cool and rainy in north, warmer and drier in
south


Terrain:

mountainous north of the Tagus River, rolling plains in south


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Ponta do Pico (Pico or Pico Alto) on Ilha do Pico in
the Azores 2,351 m


Natural resources:

fish, forests (cork), iron ore, copper, zinc, tin, tungsten, silver,
gold, uranium, marble, clay, gypsum, salt, arable land, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 17.29%
permanent crops: 7.84%
other: 74.87% (2005)


Irrigated land:

6,500 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

73.6 cu km (2005)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 11.09 cu km/yr (10%/12%/78%)
per capita: 1,056 cu m/yr (1998)


Natural hazards:

Azores subject to severe earthquakes


Environment - current issues:

soil erosion; air pollution caused by industrial and vehicle
emissions; water pollution, especially in coastal areas


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life
Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical
Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Environmental
Modification


Geography - note:

Azores and Madeira Islands occupy strategic locations along western
sea approaches to Strait of Gibraltar


People
Portugal



Population:

10,676,910 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 16.4% (male 912,995/female 835,715)
15-64 years: 66.2% (male 3,514,905/female 3,555,097)
65 years and over: 17.4% (male 764,443/female 1,093,755) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 39.1 years
male: 37 years
female: 41.3 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.305% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

10.45 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

10.62 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

3.23 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.07 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.09 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.7 male(s)/female
total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 4.85 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 5.31 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 4.36 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 78.04 years
male: 74.78 years
female: 81.53 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.49 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.4% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

22,000 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 1,000 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Portuguese (singular and plural)
adjective: Portuguese


Ethnic groups:

homogeneous Mediterranean stock; citizens of black African descent
who immigrated to mainland during decolonization number less than
100,000; since 1990 East Europeans have entered Portugal


Religions:

Roman Catholic 84.5%, other Christian 2.2%, other 0.3%, unknown 9%,
none 3.9% (2001 census)


Languages:

Portuguese (official), Mirandese (official - but locally used)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 93.3%
male: 95.5%
female: 91.3% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 15 years
male: 15 years
female: 16 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

5.5% of GDP (2005)


Government
Portugal



Country name:

conventional long form: Portuguese Republic
conventional short form: Portugal
local long form: Republica Portuguesa
local short form: Portugal


Government type:

republic; parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Lisbon
geographic coordinates: 38 43 N, 9 08 W
time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

18 districts (distritos, singular - distrito) and 2 autonomous
regions* (regioes autonomas, singular - regiao autonoma); Aveiro,
Acores (Azores)*, Beja, Braga, Braganca, Castelo Branco, Coimbra,
Evora, Faro, Guarda, Leiria, Lisboa (Lisbon), Madeira*, Portalegre,
Porto, Santarem, Setubal, Viana do Castelo, Vila Real, Viseu


Independence:

1143 (Kingdom of Portugal recognized); 5 October 1910 (republic
proclaimed)


National holiday:

Portugal Day (Day of Portugal), 10 June (1580); note - also called
Camoes Day, the day that revered national poet Luis de Camoes
(1524-80) died


Constitution:

adopted 2 April 1976; note - subsequent revisions of the
Constitution placed the military under strict civilian control,
trimmed the powers of the president, and laid the groundwork for a
stable, pluralistic liberal democracy; as well, they allowed for the
privatization of nationalized firms and the government-owned
communications media


Legal system:

based on civil law system; the Constitutional Tribunal reviews the
constitutionality of legislation; accepts compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Anibal CAVACO SILVA (since 9 March 2006)
head of government: Prime Minister Jose SOCRATES Carvalho Pinto de
Sousa (since 12 March 2005)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
recommendation of the prime minister
note: there is also a Council of State that acts as a consultative
body to the president
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 22 January 2006
(next to be held in January 2011); following legislative elections,
the leader of the majority party or leader of a majority coalition
is usually appointed prime minister by the president
election results: Anibal CAVACO SILVA elected president; percent of
vote - Anibal CAVACO SILVA 50.6%, Manuel ALEGRE 20.7%, Mario Alberto
Nobre Lopes SOARES 14.3%, Jeronimo DE SOUSA 8.5%, Franciso LOUCA 5.3%


Legislative branch:

unicameral Assembly of the Republic or Assembleia da Republica (230
seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 20 February 2005 (next to be held in Fall 2009)
election results: percent of vote by party - PS 45.1%, PSD 28.7%,
CDU 7.6%, CDS/PP 7.3%, BE 6.4%, other 4.9%; seats by party - PS 121,
PSD 75, CDU 14, CDS/PP 12, BE 8


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court or Supremo Tribunal de Justica (judges appointed for
life by the Conselho Superior da Magistratura)


Political parties and leaders:

Democratic and Social Center/Popular Party or CDS/PP [Paulo PORTAS];
Green Ecologist Party (The Greens) or PEV [leadership commission
elected by members]; Portuguese Communist Party or PCP [Jeronimo DE
SOUSA]; Portuguese Socialist Party or PS [Jose SOCRATES Carvalho
Pinto de Sousa]; Social Democratic Party or PSD [Manuela FERREIRA
Leite]; The Left Bloc or BE [Franciso Anacleto LOUCA]; Unitarian
Democratic Coalition or CDU [Jeronimo DE SOUSA] (includes PCP and
PEV)


Political pressure groups and leaders:

the media


International organization participation:

ADB (nonregional members), AfDB (nonregional members), Australia
Group, BIS, CE, CERN, CPLP, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EMU, ESA, EU, FAO,
IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU,
ITUC, LAIA (observer), MIGA, MINURCAT, NAM (guest), NATO, NEA, NSG,
OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, Schengen Convention, SECI
(observer), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, Union Latina,
UNMIT, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WEU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Joao DE VALLERA
chancery: 2012 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036
telephone: [1] (202) 350-5400
FAX: [1] (202) 462-3726
consulate(s) general: Boston, New York, Newark (New Jersey), San
Francisco
consulate(s): New Bedford (Massachusetts), Providence (Rhode Island)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Thomas F. STEPHENSON
embassy: Avenida das Forcas Armadas, 1600-081 Lisbon
mailing address: Apartado 43033, 1601-301 Lisboa; PSC 83, APO AE
09726
telephone: [351] (21) 727-3300
FAX: [351] (21) 726-9109
consulate(s): Ponta Delgada (Azores)


Flag description:

two vertical bands of green (hoist side, two-fifths) and red
(three-fifths) with the Portuguese coat of arms centered on the
dividing line


Economy
Portugal



Economy - overview:

Portugal has become a diversified and increasingly service-based
economy since joining the European Community in 1986. Over the past
two decades, successive governments have privatized many
state-controlled firms and liberalized key areas of the economy,
including the financial and telecommunications sectors. The country
qualified for the European Monetary Union (EMU) in 1998 and began
circulating the euro on 1 January 2002 along with 11 other EU member
economies. Economic growth had been above the EU average for much of
the 1990s, but fell back in 2001-07. GDP per capita stands at
roughly two-thirds of the EU-27 average. A poor educational system,
in particular, has been an obstacle to greater productivity and
growth. Portugal has been increasingly overshadowed by lower-cost
producers in Central Europe and Asia as a target for foreign direct
investment. The budget deficit surged to an all-time high of 6% of
GDP in 2005, but the government reduced the deficit to 2.6% in 2007
- a year ahead of Portugal's targeted schedule. Nonetheless, the
government faces tough choices in its attempts to boost Portugal's
economic competitiveness while keeping the budget deficit within the
eurozone's 3%-of-GDP ceiling.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$232.3 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$223.3 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

1.8% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$21,800 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 8.2%
industry: 25.4%
services: 66.4% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

5.618 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 10%
industry: 30%
services: 60% (2007 est.)


Unemployment rate:

8% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

18% (2006)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 3.1%
highest 10%: 28.4% (1995 est.)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

38.5 (2007)


Investment (gross fixed):

21.7% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $96.01 billion
expenditures: $101.9 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

63.6% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.4% (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

7.92% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

NA
note: see entry for the European Union for money supply in the Euro
Area; the European Central Bank (ECB) controls monetary policy for
the 15 members of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU); individual
members of the EMU do not control the quantity of money and quasi
money circulating within their own borders


Stock of quasi money:

NA (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$451.9 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

grain, potatoes, tomatoes, olives, grapes; sheep, cattle, goats,
swine, poultry, dairy products; fish


Industries:

textiles, clothing, footwear, wood and cork, paper, chemicals,
auto-parts manufacturing, base metals, diary products, wine and
other foods, porcelain and ceramics, glassware, technology,
telecommunications; ship construction and refurbishment; tourism


Industrial production growth rate:

2.3% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

44.83 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

48.02 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

2.153 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

9.641 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 64.5%
hydro: 31.3%
nuclear: 0%
other: 4.1% (2001)


Oil - production:

6,281 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

301,000 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

50,490 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

390,300 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

NA bbl


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

4.112 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

4.095 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$21.75 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$51.5 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

agricultural products, food products, oil products, chemical
products, plastics and rubber, skins and leather, wood and cork,
wood pulp and paper, textile materials, clothing, footwear, minerals
and mineral products, base metals, machinery and tools, vehicles and
other transport material, and optical and precision


Exports - partners:

Spain 27.1%, Germany 12.9%, France 12.3%, UK 5.9%, US 4.8%, Angola
4.5%, Italy 4% (2007)


Imports:

$75.3 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

agricultural products, food products, oil products, chemical
products, plastics and rubber, skins and leather, wood and cork,
wood pulp and paper, textile materials, clothing, footwear, minerals
and mineral products, base metals, machinery and tools, vehicles and
other transport material, and optical and precision instruments,
computer accessories and parts, semi-conductors and related devices,
household goods, passenger cars new and used, and wine products


Imports - partners:

Spain 29.5%, Germany 12.9%, France 8.4%, Italy 5.2%, Netherlands
4.6% (2007)


Economic aid - donor:

ODA, $396 million (2006)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$11.55 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$461.2 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$91.19 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$54.85 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$66.98 billion (2005)


Currency (code):

euro (EUR)


Currency code:

EUR


Exchange rates:

euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006), 0.8041
(2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)


Communications
Portugal



Telephones - main lines in use:

4.139 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

13.413 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: Portugal's telephone system has achieved a
state-of-the-art network with broadband, high-speed capabilities
domestic: integrated network of coaxial cables, open-wire, microwave
radio relay, and domestic satellite earth stations
international: country code - 351; a combination of submarine cables
provide connectivity to Europe, North and East Africa, South Africa,
the Middle East, Asia, and the US; satellite earth stations - 3
Intelsat (2 Atlantic Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean), NA Eutelsat;
tropospheric scatter to Azores (1998)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 47, FM 172 (many are repeaters), shortwave 2 (1998)


Radios:

3.02 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

62 (plus 166 repeaters; includes Azores and Madeira Islands) (1995)


Televisions:

3.31 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.pt


Internet hosts:

1.858 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

16 (2000)


Internet users:

3.549 million (2007)


Transportation
Portugal



Airports:

66 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 44
over 3,047 m: 5
2,438 to 3,047 m: 9
1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
914 to 1,523 m: 13
under 914 m: 12 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 22
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 21 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 1,098 km; oil 11 km; refined products 188 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 2,786 km
broad gauge: 2,603 km 1.668-m gauge (1,351 km electrified)
narrow gauge: 183 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 82,900 km
paved: 71,294 km (includes 2,300 km of expressways)
unpaved: 11,606 km (2005)


Waterways:

210 km (on Douro River from Porto) (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 117
by type: bulk carrier 10, cargo 36, carrier 1, chemical tanker 15,
container 6, liquefied gas 9, passenger 10, passenger/cargo 9,
petroleum tanker 4, roll on/roll off 1, specialized tanker 1,
vehicle carrier 15
foreign-owned: 84 (Bahamas 1, Belgium 7, Belgium 1, Denmark 3,
Germany 20, Greece 4, Hong Kong 2, Italy 12, Japan 15, Mexico 1,
Netherlands 1, Spain 11, Sweden 3, Switzerland 2, US 1)
registered in other countries: 15 (Cyprus 1, Hong Kong 1, Italy 1,
Malta 3, Panama 9) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Leixoes, Lisbon, Setubal, Sines


Military
Portugal



Military branches:

Portuguese Army (Exercito Portugues), Portuguese Navy (Marinha
Portuguesa; includes Marine Corps), Portuguese Air Force (Forca
Aerea Portuguesa, FAP) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service; compulsory military
service ended in 2004; women serve in the armed forces, on naval
ships since 1993, but are prohibited from serving in some combatant
specialties; reserve obligation to age 35 (2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,573,913
females age 16-49: 2,498,262 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,099,647
females age 16-49: 2,060,559 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 64,910
female: 58,599 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

2.3% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Portugal



Disputes - international:

Portugal does not recognize Spanish sovereignty over the territory
of Olivenza based on a difference of interpretation of the 1815
Congress of Vienna and the 1801 Treaty of Badajoz


Illicit drugs:

seizing record amounts of Latin American cocaine destined for
Europe; a European gateway for Southwest Asian heroin; transshipment
point for hashish from North Africa to Europe; consumer of Southwest
Asian heroin



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Puerto Rico

Introduction
Puerto Rico



Background:

Populated for centuries by aboriginal peoples, the island was
claimed by the Spanish Crown in 1493 following COLUMBUS' second
voyage to the Americas. In 1898, after 400 years of colonial rule
that saw the indigenous population nearly exterminated and African
slave labor introduced, Puerto Rico was ceded to the US as a result
of the Spanish-American War. Puerto Ricans were granted US
citizenship in 1917. Popularly-elected governors have served since
1948. In 1952, a constitution was enacted providing for internal
self government. In plebiscites held in 1967, 1993, and 1998, voters
chose not to alter the existing political status.


Geography
Puerto Rico



Location:

Caribbean, island between the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic
Ocean, east of the Dominican Republic


Geographic coordinates:

18 15 N, 66 30 W


Map references:

Central America and the Caribbean


Area:

total: 13,790 sq km
land: 8,870 sq km
water: 4,921 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly less than three times the size of Rhode Island


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

501 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical marine, mild; little seasonal temperature variation


Terrain:

mostly mountains with coastal plain belt in north; mountains
precipitous to sea on west coast; sandy beaches along most coastal
areas


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
highest point: Cerro de Punta 1,339 m


Natural resources:

some copper and nickel; potential for onshore and offshore oil


Land use:

arable land: 3.69%
permanent crops: 5.59%
other: 90.72% (2005)


Irrigated land:

400 sq km (2003)


Natural hazards:

periodic droughts; hurricanes


Environment - current issues:

erosion; occasional drought causing water shortages


Geography - note:

important location along the Mona Passage - a key shipping lane to
the Panama Canal; San Juan is one of the biggest and best natural
harbors in the Caribbean; many small rivers and high central
mountains ensure land is well watered; south coast relatively dry;
fertile coastal plain belt in north


People
Puerto Rico



Population:

3,958,128 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 20.5% (male 415,141/female 396,782)
15-64 years: 66% (male 1,254,416/female 1,358,229)
65 years and over: 13.5% (male 229,727/female 303,833) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 35.6 years
male: 33.8 years
female: 37.3 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.369% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

12.61 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

7.88 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-1.03 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.92 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.76 male(s)/female
total population: 0.92 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 8.65 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 9.15 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 8.13 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 78.58 years
male: 74.64 years
female: 82.73 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.76 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

7,397 (1997)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Puerto Rican(s) (US citizens)
adjective: Puerto Rican


Ethnic groups:

white (mostly Spanish origin) 80.5%, black 8%, Amerindian 0.4%,
Asian 0.2%, mixed 4.2%, other 6.7% (2000 census)


Religions:

Roman Catholic 85%, Protestant and other 15%


Languages:

Spanish, English


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 94.1%
male: 93.9%
female: 94.4% (2002 est.)


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Puerto Rico



Country name:

conventional long form: Commonwealth of Puerto Rico
conventional short form: Puerto Rico


Dependency status:

unincorporated, organized territory of the US with commonwealth
status; policy relations between Puerto Rico and the US conducted
under the jurisdiction of the Office of the President


Government type:

commonwealth


Capital:

name: San Juan
geographic coordinates: 18 28 N, 66 07 W
time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

none (territory of the US with commonwealth status); there are no
first-order administrative divisions as defined by the US
Government, but there are 78 municipalities (municipios, singular -
municipio) at the second order; Adjuntas, Aguada, Aguadilla, Aguas
Buenas, Aibonito, Anasco, Arecibo, Arroyo, Barceloneta,
Barranquitas, Bayamon, Cabo Rojo, Caguas, Camuy, Canovanas,
Carolina, Catano, Cayey, Ceiba, Ciales, Cidra, Coamo, Comerio,
Corozal, Culebra, Dorado, Fajardo, Florida, Guanica, Guayama,
Guayanilla, Guaynabo, Gurabo, Hatillo, Hormigueros, Humacao,
Isabela, Jayuya, Juana Diaz, Juncos, Lajas, Lares, Las Marias, Las
Piedras, Loiza, Luquillo, Manati, Maricao, Maunabo, Mayaguez, Moca,
Morovis, Naguabo, Naranjito, Orocovis, Patillas, Penuelas, Ponce,
Quebradillas, Rincon, Rio Grande, Sabana Grande, Salinas, San
German, San Juan, San Lorenzo, San Sebastian, Santa Isabel, Toa
Alta, Toa Baja, Trujillo Alto, Utuado, Vega Alta, Vega Baja,
Vieques, Villalba, Yabucoa, Yauco


Independence:

none (territory of the US with commonwealth status)


National holiday:

US Independence Day, 4 July (1776); Puerto Rico Constitution Day, 25
July (1952)


Constitution:

ratified 3 March 1952; approved by US Congress 3 July 1952;
effective 25 July 1952


Legal system:

based on Spanish civil code and within the US Federal system of
justice


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal; island residents are US citizens but do
not vote in US presidential elections


Executive branch:

chief of state: President George W. BUSH of the US (since 20 January
2001); Vice President Richard B. CHENEY (since 20 January 2001)
head of government: Governor Anibal ACEVEDO-VILA (since 2 January
2005)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the governor with the consent of the
legislature
elections: under the US Constitution, residents of unincorporated
territories, such as Puerto Rico, do not vote in elections for US
president and vice president; however, they may vote in Democratic
and Republican presidential primary elections; governor elected by
popular vote for a four-year term (no term limits); election last
held 4 November 2008 (next to be held in November 2012)
election results: Luis FORTUNO elected governor with 52.8% of the
vote, he will take office on 2 January 2009


Legislative branch:

bicameral Legislative Assembly consists of the Senate (at least 27
seats; members are directly elected by popular vote to serve
four-year terms) and the House of Representatives (51 seats; members
are elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
elections: Senate - last held 4 November 2008 (next to be held
November 2012); House of Representatives - last held 4 November 2008
(next to be held in November 2012)
election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - PNP 22, PPD 5; House of Representatives - percent of vote by
party - NA; seats by party - NA
note: Puerto Rico elects, by popular vote, a resident commissioner
to serve a four-year term as a nonvoting representative in the US
House of Representatives; aside from not voting on the House floor,
he enjoys all the rights of a member of Congress; elections last
held 4 November 2008 (next to be held in November 2012); results -
percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - PNP 1


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court; Appellate Court; Court of First Instance composed of
two sections: a Superior Court and a Municipal Court (justices for
all these courts appointed by the governor with the consent of the
Senate)


Political parties and leaders:

National Democratic Party [Roberto PRATS]; National Republican Party
of Puerto Rico [Dr. Tiody FERRE]; New Progressive Party or PNP
[Pedro ROSSELLO] (pro-US statehood); Popular Democratic Party or PPD
[Anibal ACEVEDO-VILA] (pro-commonwealth); Puerto Rican Independence
Party or PIP [Ruben BERRIOS Martinez] (pro-independence)


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Boricua Popular Army or EPB (a revolutionary group also known as Los
Macheteros); note - the following radical groups are considered
dormant by Federal law enforcement: Armed Forces for National
Liberation or FALN, Armed Forces of Popular Resistance, Volunteers
of the Puerto Rican Revolution


International organization participation:

Caricom (observer), Interpol (subbureau), IOC, ITUC, UNWTO
(associate), UPU, WCL, WFTU


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (territory of the US with commonwealth status)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (territory of the US with commonwealth status)


Flag description:

five equal horizontal bands of red (top and bottom) alternating with
white; a blue isosceles triangle based on the hoist side bears a
large, white, five-pointed star in the center; design initially
influenced by the US flag, but similar to the Cuban flag, with the
colors of the bands and triangle reversed


Economy
Puerto Rico



Economy - overview:

Puerto Rico has one of the most dynamic economies in the Caribbean
region. A diverse industrial sector has far surpassed agriculture as
the primary locus of economic activity and income. Encouraged by
duty-free access to the US and by tax incentives, US firms have
invested heavily in Puerto Rico since the 1950s. US minimum wage
laws apply. Sugar production has lost out to dairy production and
other livestock products as the main source of income in the
agricultural sector. Tourism has traditionally been an important
source of income, with estimated arrivals of nearly 5 million
tourists in 2004. Growth fell off in 2001-03, largely due to the
slowdown in the US economy, recovered in 2004-05, but declined again
in 2006-07.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$72.61 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$NA (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

-1.2% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$18,400 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 1%
industry: 45%
services: 54% (2002 est.)


Labor force:

1.3 million (2000)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 3%
industry: 20%
services: 77% (2000 est.)


Unemployment rate:

12% (2002)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $6.7 billion
expenditures: $9.6 billion (FY99/00)


Fiscal year:

1 July - 30 June


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

6.5% (2003 est.)


Agriculture - products:

sugarcane, coffee, pineapples, plantains, bananas; livestock
products, chickens


Industries:

pharmaceuticals, electronics, apparel, food products, tourism


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

23.84 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

22.17 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 99.2%
hydro: 0.8%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

1,354 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

215,000 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

10,610 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

230,700 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

736.2 million cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

736.2 million cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Exports:

$46.9 billion f.o.b. (2001)


Exports - commodities:

chemicals, electronics, apparel, canned tuna, rum, beverage
concentrates, medical equipment


Exports - partners:

US 90.3%, UK 1.6%, Netherlands 1.4%, Dominican Republic 1.4% (2006)


Imports:

$29.1 billion c.i.f. (2001)


Imports - commodities:

chemicals, machinery and equipment, clothing, food, fish, petroleum
products


Imports - partners:

US 55.0%, Ireland 23.7%, Japan 5.4% (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$NA


Debt - external:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

US dollar (USD)


Currency code:

USD


Exchange rates:

the US dollar is used


Communications
Puerto Rico



Telephones - main lines in use:

1.038 million (2005)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

3.354 million (2005)


Telephone system:

general assessment: modern system integrated with that of the US by
high-capacity submarine cable and Intelsat with high-speed data
capability
domestic: digital telephone system; cellular telephone service
international: country code - 1-787, 939; submarine cables provide
connectivity to the US, Caribbean, Central and South America;
satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 74, FM 53, shortwave 0 (2005)


Radios:

2.7 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

32 (2006)


Televisions:

1.021 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.pr


Internet hosts:

404 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

76 (2000)


Internet users:

1 million (2007)


Transportation
Puerto Rico



Airports:

29 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 17
over 3,047 m: 3
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 7
under 914 m: 5 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 12
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 10 (2007)


Railways:

total: 96 km
narrow gauge: 96 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 26,186 km
paved: 24,877 km (includes 427 km of expressways)
unpaved: 1,309 km (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 3
by type: roll on/roll off 3
foreign-owned: 3 (US 3)
registered in other countries: 1 (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Guayanilla, Mayaguez, San Juan


Military
Puerto Rico



Military branches:

no regular indigenous military forces; paramilitary National Guard,
Police Force


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 30,760
female: 29,469 (2008 est.)


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of the US


Transnational Issues
Puerto Rico



Disputes - international:

increasing numbers of illegal migrants from the Dominican Republic
cross the Mona Passage to Puerto Rico each year looking for work



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Qatar

Introduction
Qatar



Background:

Ruled by the Al-Thani family since the mid-1800s, Qatar transformed
itself from a poor British protectorate noted mainly for pearling
into an independent state with significant oil and natural gas
revenues. During the late 1980s and early 1990s, the Qatari economy
was crippled by a continuous siphoning off of petroleum revenues by
the Amir, who had ruled the country since 1972. His son, the current
Amir HAMAD bin Khalifa Al-Thani, overthrew him in a bloodless coup
in 1995. In 2001, Qatar resolved its longstanding border disputes
with both Bahrain and Saudi Arabia. As of 2007, oil and natural gas
revenues had enabled Qatar to attain the highest per capita income
in the world.


Geography
Qatar



Location:

Middle East, peninsula bordering the Persian Gulf and Saudi Arabia


Geographic coordinates:

25 30 N, 51 15 E


Map references:

Middle East


Area:

total: 11,437 sq km
land: 11,437 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Connecticut


Land boundaries:

total: 60 km
border countries: Saudi Arabia 60 km


Coastline:

563 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: as determined by bilateral agreements or
the median line


Climate:

arid; mild, pleasant winters; very hot, humid summers


Terrain:

mostly flat and barren desert covered with loose sand and gravel


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Persian Gulf 0 m
highest point: Qurayn Abu al Bawl 103 m


Natural resources:

petroleum, natural gas, fish


Land use:

arable land: 1.64%
permanent crops: 0.27%
other: 98.09% (2005)


Irrigated land:

130 sq km (2002)


Total renewable water resources:

0.1 cu km (1997)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.29 cu km/yr (24%/3%/72%)
per capita: 358 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

haze, dust storms, sandstorms common


Environment - current issues:

limited natural fresh water resources are increasing dependence on
large-scale desalination facilities


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

strategic location in central Persian Gulf near major petroleum
deposits


People
Qatar



Population:

824,789 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 21.8% (male 92,896/female 87,201)
15-64 years: 76.8% (male 451,127/female 182,330)
65 years and over: 1.4% (male 6,545/female 4,690) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 30.7 years
male: 32.8 years
female: 25.4 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.093% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

15.69 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

2.47 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-2.28 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 2.47 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 1.4 male(s)/female
total population: 2.01 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 13.09 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 13.99 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 12.13 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 75.19 years
male: 73.5 years
female: 76.98 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.47 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.09% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Qatari(s)
adjective: Qatari


Ethnic groups:

Arab 40%, Indian 18%, Pakistani 18%, Iranian 10%, other 14%


Religions:

Muslim 77.5%, Christian 8.5%, other 14% (2004 census)


Languages:

Arabic (official), English commonly used as a second language


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 89%
male: 89.1%
female: 88.6% (2004 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 13 years
male: 13 years
female: 14 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

3.3% of GDP (2005)


Government
Qatar



Country name:

conventional long form: State of Qatar
conventional short form: Qatar
local long form: Dawlat Qatar
local short form: Qatar
note: closest approximation of the native pronunciation falls
between cutter and gutter, but not like guitar


Government type:

emirate


Capital:

name: Doha
geographic coordinates: 25 17 N, 51 32 E
time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

10 municipalities (baladiyat, singular - baladiyah); Ad Dawhah, Al
Ghuwayriyah, Al Jumayliyah, Al Khawr, Al Wakrah, Ar Rayyan, Jarayan
al Batinah, Madinat ash Shamal, Umm Sa'id, Umm Salal


Independence:

3 September 1971 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 3 September (1971); also observed is National Day,
18 December


Constitution:

ratified by public referendum on 29 April 2003, endorsed by the Amir
on 8 June 2004, effective on 9 June 2005


Legal system:

based on Islamic and civil law codes; discretionary system of law
controlled by the Amir, although civil codes are being implemented;
Islamic law dominates family and personal matters; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Amir HAMAD bin Khalifa Al-Thani (since 27 June 1995
when, as heir apparent, he ousted his father, Amir KHALIFA bin Hamad
Al-Thani, in a bloodless coup); Heir Apparent TAMIM bin Hamad bin
Khalifa Al-Thani, fourth son of the monarch (selected Heir Apparent
by the monarch on 5 August 2003); note - Amir HAMAD also holds the
positions of Minister of Defense and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed
Forces
head of government: Prime Minister HAMAD bin Jasim bin Jabir
Al-Thani (since 3 April 2007); Deputy Prime Minister Abdallah bin
Hamad al-ATIYAH (since 3 April 2007)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the monarch
elections: the monarch is hereditary
note: in April 2007, Qatar held nationwide elections for a 29-member
Central Municipal Council (CMC), which has limited consultative
powers aimed at improving the provision of municipal services; the
first election for the CMC was held in March 1999


Legislative branch:

unicameral Advisory Council or Majlis al-Shura (35 seats; members
appointed)
note: no legislative elections have been held since 1970 when there
were partial elections to the body; Council members have had their
terms extended every year since the new constitution came into force
on 9 June 2005; the constitution provides for a new 45-member
Advisory Council or Majlis al-Shura; the public would elect
two-thirds of the Majlis al-Shura; the Amir would appoint the
remaining members; preparations are underway to conduct elections to
the Majlis al-Shura


Judicial branch:

Courts of First Instance, Appeal, and Cassation; an Administrative
Court and a Constitutional Court were established in 2007; note -
all judges are appointed by Amiri Decree based on the recommendation
of the Supreme Judiciary Council for renewable three-year terms


Political parties and leaders:

none


Political pressure groups and leaders:

none


International organization participation:

ABEDA, ACC, AFESD, AMF, FAO, G-77, GCC, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM,
IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC,
IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, LAS, MIGA, NAM, OAPEC, OAS (observer), OIC,
OPCW, OPEC, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNWTO, UPU, WCO,
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Ali Fahad al-Shahwany al-HAJRI
chancery: 2555 M Street NW, Washington, DC 20037
telephone: [1] (202) 274-1600 and 274-1603
FAX: [1] (202) 237-0061
consulate(s) general: Houston


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Joseph E. LEBARON
embassy: Al-Luqta District, 22 February Road, Doha
mailing address: P. O. Box 2399, Doha
telephone: [974] 488 4161
FAX: [974] 488 4150


Flag description:

maroon with a broad white serrated band (nine white points) on the
hoist side


Economy
Qatar



Economy - overview:

Qatar is in the midst of an economic boom supported by its expanding
production of natural gas and oil. Economic policy is focused on
development of Qatar's nonassociated natural gas reserves and
increasing private and foreign investment in non-energy sectors. Oil
and gas account for more than 60% of GDP, roughly 85% of export
earnings, and 70% of government revenues. Oil and gas have made
Qatar the highest per-capita income country and one of the world's
fastest growing. Sustained high oil prices and increased natural gas
exports in recent years have helped build Qatar's budget and trade
surpluses and foreign reserves. Proved oil reserves of more than 15
billion barrels should ensure continued output at current levels for
22 years. Qatar's proved reserves of natural gas are roughly 25
trillion cubic meters, about 15% of the world total and third
largest in the world. Qatar has permitted substantial foreign
investment in the development of its gas fields during the last
decade and became the world's top liquefied natural gas (LNG)
exporter in 2007.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$71.42 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$67.76 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

8.4% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$87,600 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 0.1%
industry: 77.8%
services: 22.1% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

881,000 (2007 est.)


Unemployment rate:

0.7% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Investment (gross fixed):

43.3% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $27.12 billion
expenditures: $22.55 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 April - 31 March


Public debt:

11% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

13.7% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

NA


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

7.43% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$9.718 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$22.6 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$30.52 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

fruits, vegetables; poultry, dairy products, beef; fish


Industries:

crude oil production and refining, ammonia, fertilizers,
petrochemicals, steel reinforcing bars, cement, commercial ship
repair


Industrial production growth rate:

8% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

14.41 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

13.19 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

1.125 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

108,900 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

1.026 million bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

15.21 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

59.8 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

20.5 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

39.3 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

25.63 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$10.41 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$42.02 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

liquefied natural gas (LNG), petroleum products, fertilizers, steel


Exports - partners:

Japan 39.9%, South Korea 19.9%, Singapore 9.9%, India 5.1%, Thailand
4.9%, UAE 4% (2007)


Imports:

$19.86 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and transport equipment, food, chemicals


Imports - partners:

US 13.3%, Italy 10.8%, Japan 8.9%, France 7.9%, Germany 7.3%, UK
5.7%, South Korea 5.6%, UAE 5.1%, Saudi Arabia 4.3% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$2.18 million (2004)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$9.752 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$33.09 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$11.18 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$5.625 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$61.56 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

Qatari rial (QAR)


Currency code:

QAR


Exchange rates:

Qatari rials (QAR) per US dollar - 3.64 (2007), 3.64 (2006), 3.64
(2005), 3.64 (2004), 3.64 (2003)


Communications
Qatar



Telephones - main lines in use:

237,400 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

1.264 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: modern system centered in Doha
domestic: combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular telephone density
is roughly 165 telephones per 100 persons
international: country code - 974; landing point for the Fiber-Optic
Link Around the Globe (FLAG) submarine cable network that provides
links to Asia, Middle East, Europe, and the US; tropospheric scatter
to Bahrain; microwave radio relay to Saudi Arabia and the UAE;
satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Atlantic Ocean and 1 Indian
Ocean) and 1 Arabsat


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 6, FM 5, shortwave 1 (1998)


Radios:

256,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (plus 3 repeaters) (2001)


Televisions:

230,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.qa


Internet hosts:

563 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

351,000 (2007)


Transportation
Qatar



Airports:

5 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 3
over 3,047 m: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Pipelines:

condensate 322 km; condensate/gas 209 km; gas 1,970 km; liquid
petroleum gas 87 km; oil 741 km (2007)


Roadways:

total: 7,790 km (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 22
by type: bulk carrier 2, cargo 2, chemical tanker 2, container 8,
liquefied gas 4, petroleum tanker 4
foreign-owned: 7 (Kuwait 7)
registered in other countries: 5 (Liberia 4, Panama 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Doha, Ra's Laffan


Military
Qatar



Military branches:

Qatari Amiri Land Force (QALF), Qatari Amiri Navy (QAN), Qatari
Amiri Air Force (QAAF) (2007)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service; no conscription
(2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 320,383
females age 16-49: 167,475 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 258,159
females age 16-49: 143,999 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 6,224
female: 4,845 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

10% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Qatar



Disputes - international:

none


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Qatar is a destination country for men and women
from South and Southeast Asia who migrate willingly, but are
subsequently trafficked into involuntary servitude as domestic
workers and laborers, and, to a lesser extent, commercial sexual
exploitation; the most common offense was forcing workers to accept
worse contract terms than those under which they were recruited;
other conditions include bonded labor, withholding of pay,
restrictions on movement, arbitrary detention, and physical, mental,
and sexual abuse
tier rating: Tier 3 - Qatar failed, for the second consecutive year,
to enforce criminal laws against traffickers, or to provide an
effective mechanism to identify and protect victims; it continues to
detain and deport victims rather than providing them protection; the
government made little progress to increase prosecutions for
trafficking in a meaningful way in 2007; workers complaining of
working conditions or non-payment of wages were sometimes penalized
(2008)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Romania

Introduction
Romania



Background:

The principalities of Wallachia and Moldavia - for centuries under
the suzerainty of the Turkish Ottoman Empire - secured their
autonomy in 1856; they united in 1859 and a few years later adopted
the new name of Romania. The country gained recognition of its
independence in 1878. It joined the Allied Powers in World War I and
acquired new territories - most notably Transylvania - following the
conflict. In 1940, Romania allied with the Axis powers and
participated in the 1941 German invasion of the USSR. Three years
later, overrun by the Soviets, Romania signed an armistice. The
post-war Soviet occupation led to the formation of a Communist
"people's republic" in 1947 and the abdication of the king. The
decades-long rule of dictator Nicolae CEAUSESCU, who took power in
1965, and his Securitate police state became increasingly oppressive
and draconian through the 1980s. CEAUSESCU was overthrown and
executed in late 1989. Former Communists dominated the government
until 1996 when they were swept from power. Romania joined NATO in
2004 and the EU in 2007.


Geography
Romania



Location:

Southeastern Europe, bordering the Black Sea, between Bulgaria and
Ukraine


Geographic coordinates:

46 00 N, 25 00 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 237,500 sq km
land: 230,340 sq km
water: 7,160 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Oregon


Land boundaries:

total: 2,508 km
border countries: Bulgaria 608 km, Hungary 443 km, Moldova 450 km,
Serbia 476 km, Ukraine (north) 362 km, Ukraine (east) 169 km


Coastline:

225 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation


Climate:

temperate; cold, cloudy winters with frequent snow and fog; sunny
summers with frequent showers and thunderstorms


Terrain:

central Transylvanian Basin is separated from the Plain of Moldavia
on the east by the Carpathian Mountains and separated from the
Walachian Plain on the south by the Transylvanian Alps


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Black Sea 0 m
highest point: Moldoveanu 2,544 m


Natural resources:

petroleum (reserves declining), timber, natural gas, coal, iron ore,
salt, arable land, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 39.49%
permanent crops: 1.92%
other: 58.59% (2005)


Irrigated land:

30,770 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

42.3 cu km (2003)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 6.5 cu km/yr (9%/34%/57%)
per capita: 299 cu m/yr (2003)


Natural hazards:

earthquakes, most severe in south and southwest; geologic structure
and climate promote landslides


Environment - current issues:

soil erosion and degradation; water pollution; air pollution in
south from industrial effluents; contamination of Danube delta
wetlands


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic Treaty,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

controls most easily traversable land route between the Balkans,
Moldova, and Ukraine


People
Romania



Population:

22,246,862 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 15.6% (male 1,778,864/female 1,687,659)
15-64 years: 69.7% (male 7,718,125/female 7,791,102)
65 years and over: 14.7% (male 1,337,915/female 1,933,197) (2008
est.)


Median age:

total: 37.3 years
male: 35.9 years
female: 38.7 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

-0.136% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

10.61 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

11.84 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-0.13 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.69 male(s)/female
total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 23.73 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 26.81 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 20.46 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 72.18 years
male: 68.69 years
female: 75.89 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.38 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

less than 0.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

6,500 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

350 (2001 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Romanian(s)
adjective: Romanian


Ethnic groups:

Romanian 89.5%, Hungarian 6.6%, Roma 2.5%, Ukrainian 0.3%, German
0.3%, Russian 0.2%, Turkish 0.2%, other 0.4% (2002 census)


Religions:

Eastern Orthodox (including all sub-denominations) 86.8%, Protestant
(various denominations including Reformate and Pentecostal) 7.5%,
Roman Catholic 4.7%, other (mostly Muslim) and unspecified 0.9%,
none 0.1% (2002 census)


Languages:

Romanian 91% (official), Hungarian 6.7%, Romany (Gypsy) 1.1%, other
1.2%


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 97.3%
male: 98.4%
female: 96.3% (2002 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 14 years
male: 14 years
female: 14 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

3.5% of GDP (2005)


Government
Romania



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Romania
local long form: none
local short form: Romania


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Bucharest
geographic coordinates: 44 26 N, 26 06 E
time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

41 counties (judete, singular - judet) and 1 municipality*
(municipiu); Alba, Arad, Arges, Bacau, Bihor, Bistrita-Nasaud,
Botosani, Braila, Brasov, Bucuresti (Bucharest)*, Buzau, Calarasi,
Caras-Severin, Cluj, Constanta, Covasna, Dimbovita, Dolj, Galati,
Gorj, Giurgiu, Harghita, Hunedoara, Ialomita, Iasi, Ilfov,
Maramures, Mehedinti, Mures, Neamt, Olt, Prahova, Salaj, Satu Mare,
Sibiu, Suceava, Teleorman, Timis, Tulcea, Vaslui, Vilcea, Vrancea


Independence:

9 May 1877 (independence proclaimed from the Ottoman Empire;
independence recognized 13 July 1878 by the Treaty of Berlin); 26
March 1881 (kingdom proclaimed); 30 December 1947 (republic
proclaimed)


National holiday:

Unification Day (of Romania and Transylvania), 1 December (1918)


Constitution:

8 December 1991; revision effective 29 October 2003


Legal system:

based on civil law system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Traian BASESCU (since 20 December 2004);
note - President Traian BASESCU was suspended by vote of parliament
on 19 April 2007, but resumed his duties on 23 May 2007 after a
popular referendum confirmed that his impeachment should not stand
head of government: Prime Minister Calin Popescu-TARICEANU (since 29
December 2004)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 28 November 2004
with runoff between the top two candidates held 12 December 2004
(next to be held in November-December 2009); prime minister
appointed by the president with the consent of the Parliament
election results: percent of vote - Traian BASESCU 51.23%, Adrian
NASTASE 48.77%


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament or Parlament consists of the Senate or Senat
(137 seats; members are elected by popular vote on a proportional
representation basis to serve four-year terms) and the Chamber of
Deputies or Camera Deputatilor (334 seats; members are elected by
popular vote on a proportional representation basis to serve
four-year terms)
elections: Senate - last held 30 November 2008 (next expected to be
held in November 2012); Chamber of Deputies - last held 30 November
2008 (next expected to be held November 2012)
election results: Senate - percent of vote by alliance/party -
PSD-PC 34.2%, PDL 33.6%, PNL 18.7%, UDMR 6.4%, other 7.1%; seats by
alliance/party - PSD-PC 49, PDL 51, PNL 28, UDMR 9; Chamber of
Deputies - percent of vote by alliance/party - PSD-PC 33.1%, PDL
32.4%, PNL 18.6%, UDMR 6.2%, ethnic minorities 3.6%, other 6.1%;
seats by alliance/party - PSD-PC 114, PDL 115, PNL 65, UDMR 22,
ethnic minorities 18


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court of Justice (comprised of 11 judges appointed for
three-year terms by the president in consultation with the Superior
Council of Magistrates, which is comprised of the minister of
justice, the prosecutor general, two civil society representatives
appointed by the Senate, and 14 judges and prosecutors elected by
their peers); a separate body, the Constitutional Court, validates
elections and makes decisions regarding the constitutionality of
laws, treaties, ordinances, and internal rules of the Parliament; it
is comprised of nine members serving nine-year terms, with three
members each appointed by the president, the Senate, and the Chamber
of Deputies


Political parties and leaders:

Conservative Party or PC [Daniela POPA] (formerly Humanist Party or
PUR); Democratic Liberal Party or PDL [Emil BOC]; Democratic Union
of Hungarians in Romania or UDMR [Bela MARKO]; National Liberal
Party or PNL [Calin Popescu-TARICEANU]; Romania Mare Party (Greater
Romania Party) or PRM [Corneliu Vadim TUDOR]; Social Democratic
Party or PSD [Mircea Dan GEOANA] (formerly Party of Social Democracy
in Romania or PDSR)


Political pressure groups and leaders:

other: various human rights and professional associations


International organization participation:

Australia Group, BIS, BSEC, CE, CEI, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, ESA
(cooperating state), EU (new member), FAO, G-9, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO,
Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAIA (observer),
MIGA, MONUC, NAM (guest), NATO, NSG, OAS (observer), OIF, OPCW,
OSCE, PCA, SECI, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, Union Latina,
UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOCI, UNOMIG, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WEU (associate
partner), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Adrian Cosmin VIERITA
chancery: 1607 23rd Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 332-4846, 4848, 4851, 4852
FAX: [1] (202) 232-4748
consulate(s) general: Chicago, Los Angeles, New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Nicholas F. TAUBMAN
embassy: Strada Tudor Arghezi 7-9, Bucharest
mailing address: pouch: American Embassy Bucharest, US Department of
State, 5260 Bucharest Place, Washington, DC 20521-5260 (pouch)
telephone: [40] (21) 200-3300
FAX: [40] (21) 200-3442


Flag description:

three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side), yellow, and red;
the national coat of arms that used to be centered in the yellow
band has been removed; now similar to the flag of Chad, also
resembles the flags of Andorra and Moldova


Economy
Romania



Economy - overview:

Romania, which joined the European Union on 1 January 2007, began
the transition from Communism in 1989 with a largely obsolete
industrial base and a pattern of output unsuited to the country's
needs. The country emerged in 2000 from a punishing three-year
recession thanks to strong demand in EU export markets. Domestic
consumption and investment have fueled strong GDP growth in recent
years, but have led to large current account imbalances. Romania's
macroeconomic gains have only recently started to spur creation of a
middle class and address Romania's widespread poverty. Corruption
and red tape continue to handicap its business environment.
Inflation rose in 2007 for the first time in eight years, driven in
part by the depreciation of the currency, rising energy costs, a
nation-wide drought affecting food prices, and a relaxation of
fiscal discipline. Romania hopes to adopt the euro by 2014.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$247.1 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$166 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$11,100 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 7.9%
industry: 35.6%
services: 56.5% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

9.3 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 29.7%
industry: 23.2%
services: 47.1% (2006)


Unemployment rate:

4.1% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

25% (2005 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 1.2%
highest 10%: 20.8% (2006)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

31 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

28% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $52.13 billion
expenditures: $56.01 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

13% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

4.8% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

NA


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

13.35% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$25.17 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$34.96 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$58.76 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

wheat, corn, barley, sugar beets, sunflower seed, potatoes, grapes;
eggs, sheep


Industries:

electric machinery and equipment, textiles and footwear, light
machinery and auto assembly, mining, timber, construction materials,
metallurgy, chemicals, food processing, petroleum refining


Industrial production growth rate:

10.6% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

58.25 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

48.43 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

3.362 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

1.277 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 62.5%
hydro: 27.6%
nuclear: 9.9%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

112,400 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

238,200 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

125,200 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

219,000 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

600 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

12.5 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

17.09 billion cu m (2007)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

4.8 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

63 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$23.02 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$40.32 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, textiles and footwear, metals and metal
products, machinery and equipment, minerals and fuels, chemicals,
agricultural products


Exports - partners:

Italy 17.2%, Germany 16.9%, France 7.7%, Turkey 7%, Hungary 5.6%, UK
4.1% (2007)


Imports:

$64.54 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, fuels and minerals, chemicals, textile and
products, metals, agricultural products


Imports - partners:

Germany 17.2%, Italy 12.8%, Hungary 6.9%, Russia 6.3%, France 6.2%,
Turkey 5.4%, Austria 4.8% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$914.3 million (2004)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$39.96 billion (31 December 2007)


Debt - external:

$74.54 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$60.82 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$915 million (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$45.42 billion (2007)


Currency (code):

"new" leu (RON) was introduced in 2005; "old" leu (ROL) was phased
out in 2006; note - because of currency revaluation, 10,000 ROL = 1
RON


Currency code:

ROL


Exchange rates:

lei (RON) per US dollar - 2.43 (2007), 2.809 (2006), 3 (2005), 3
(2004), 3 (2003)


Communications
Romania



Telephones - main lines in use:

4.3 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

22.875 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: domestic and international service improving
rapidly, especially in wireless telephony
domestic: more than 90 percent of telephone network is automatic;
liberalization in 2003 is transforming telecommunications;
fixed-line teledensity is roughly 20 telephones per 100 persons;
mobile-cellular teledensity now slightly exceeds 100 telephones per
100 persons
international: country code - 40; the Black Sea Fiber Optic System
provides connectivity to Bulgaria and Turkey; satellite earth
stations - 10; digital, international, direct-dial exchanges operate
in Bucharest (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

698 (frequency type NA) (2006)


Radios:

7.2 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

623 (plus 200 repeaters) (2006)


Televisions:

5.25 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.ro


Internet hosts:

2.195 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

38 (2000)


Internet users:

12 million (2007)


Transportation
Romania



Airports:

61 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 25
over 3,047 m: 3
2,438 to 3,047 m: 9
1,524 to 2,437 m: 12
914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 36
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 12
under 914 m: 22 (2007)


Heliports:

2 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 3,674 km; oil 2,424 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 11,385 km
broad gauge: 60 km 1.524-m gauge
standard gauge: 10,898 km 1.435-m gauge (3,888 km electrified)
narrow gauge: 427 km 0.760-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 198,817 km
paved: 60,043 km (includes 228 km of expressways)
unpaved: 138,774 km (2004)


Waterways:

1,731 km
note: includes 1,075 km on Danube River, 524 km on secondary
branches, and 132 km on canals (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 17
by type: cargo 11, passenger 1, passenger/cargo 2, petroleum tanker
2, roll on/roll off 1
registered in other countries: 49 (Cambodia 1, Georgia 16, North
Korea 4, Liberia 2, Malta 8, Marshall Islands 1, Moldova 3, Panama
7, Saint Kitts and Nevis 1, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 1,
Sierra Leone 3, Syria 2) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Braila, Constanta, Galati, Tulcea


Military
Romania



Military branches:

Land Forces, Naval Forces, Romanian Air Force (Fortele Aeriene
Romane, FAR), Special Operations (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service; conscription
officially ended October 2006; all military inductees (including
women) contract for an initial 5-year term of service; subsequent
voluntary service contracts are for successive 3-year terms until
the age of 36 (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 5,682,299
females age 16-49: 5,557,098 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 4,572,017
females age 16-49: 4,644,474 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 127,706
female: 121,852 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.9% of GDP (2007 est.)


Transnational Issues
Romania



Disputes - international:

the ICJ gave Ukraine until December 2006 to reply, and Romania until
June 2007 to issue a rejoinder, in their dispute submitted in 2004
over Ukrainian-administered Zmiyinyy/Serpilor (Snake) Island and
Black Sea maritime boundary delimitation; Romania also opposes
Ukraine's reopening of a navigation canal from the Danube border
through Ukraine to the Black Sea


Illicit drugs:

major transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin transiting the
Balkan route and small amounts of Latin American cocaine bound for
Western Europe; although not a significant financial center, role as
a narcotics conduit leaves it vulnerable to laundering, which occurs
via the banking system, currency exchange houses, and casinos



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Russia

Introduction
Russia



Background:

Founded in the 12th century, the Principality of Muscovy, was able
to emerge from over 200 years of Mongol domination (13th-15th
centuries) and to gradually conquer and absorb surrounding
principalities. In the early 17th century, a new Romanov Dynasty
continued this policy of expansion across Siberia to the Pacific.
Under PETER I (ruled 1682-1725), hegemony was extended to the Baltic
Sea and the country was renamed the Russian Empire. During the 19th
century, more territorial acquisitions were made in Europe and Asia.
Defeat in the Russo-Japanese War of 1904-05 contributed to the
Revolution of 1905, which resulted in the formation of a parliament
and other reforms. Repeated devastating defeats of the Russian army
in World War I led to widespread rioting in the major cities of the
Russian Empire and to the overthrow in 1917 of the imperial
household. The Communists under Vladimir LENIN seized power soon
after and formed the USSR. The brutal rule of Iosif STALIN (1928-53)
strengthened Communist rule and Russian dominance of the Soviet
Union at a cost of tens of millions of lives. The Soviet economy and
society stagnated in the following decades until General Secretary
Mikhail GORBACHEV (1985-91) introduced glasnost (openness) and
perestroika (restructuring) in an attempt to modernize Communism,
but his initiatives inadvertently released forces that by December
1991 splintered the USSR into Russia and 14 other independent
republics. Since then, Russia has shifted its post-Soviet democratic
ambitions in favor of a centralized semi-authoritarian state whose
legitimacy is buttressed, in part, by carefully managed national
elections, former President PUTIN's genuine popularity, and the
prudent management of Russia's windfall energy wealth. Russia has
severely disabled a Chechen rebel movement, although violence still
occurs throughout the North Caucasus.


Geography
Russia



Location:

Northern Asia (the area west of the Urals is considered part of
Europe), bordering the Arctic Ocean, between Europe and the North
Pacific Ocean


Geographic coordinates:

60 00 N, 100 00 E


Map references:

Asia


Area:

total: 17,075,200 sq km
land: 16,995,800 sq km
water: 79,400 sq km


Area - comparative:

approximately 1.8 times the size of the US


Land boundaries:

total: 20,241.5 km
border countries: Azerbaijan 284 km, Belarus 959 km, China
(southeast) 3,605 km, China (south) 40 km, Estonia 290 km, Finland
1,313 km, Georgia 723 km, Kazakhstan 6,846 km, North Korea 17.5 km,
Latvia 292 km, Lithuania (Kaliningrad Oblast) 227 km, Mongolia 3,441
km, Norway 196 km, Poland (Kaliningrad Oblast) 432 km, Ukraine 1,576
km


Coastline:

37,653 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation


Climate:

ranges from steppes in the south through humid continental in much
of European Russia; subarctic in Siberia to tundra climate in the
polar north; winters vary from cool along Black Sea coast to frigid
in Siberia; summers vary from warm in the steppes to cool along
Arctic coast


Terrain:

broad plain with low hills west of Urals; vast coniferous forest and
tundra in Siberia; uplands and mountains along southern border
regions


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Caspian Sea -28 m
highest point: Gora El'brus 5,633 m


Natural resources:

wide natural resource base including major deposits of oil, natural
gas, coal, and many strategic minerals, timber
note: formidable obstacles of climate, terrain, and distance hinder
exploitation of natural resources


Land use:

arable land: 7.17%
permanent crops: 0.11%
other: 92.72% (2005)


Irrigated land:

46,000 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

4,498 cu km (1997)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 76.68 cu km/yr (19%/63%/18%)
per capita: 535 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

permafrost over much of Siberia is a major impediment to
development; volcanic activity in the Kuril Islands; volcanoes and
earthquakes on the Kamchatka Peninsula; spring floods and
summer/autumn forest fires throughout Siberia and parts of European
Russia


Environment - current issues:

air pollution from heavy industry, emissions of coal-fired electric
plants, and transportation in major cities; industrial, municipal,
and agricultural pollution of inland waterways and seacoasts;
deforestation; soil erosion; soil contamination from improper
application of agricultural chemicals; scattered areas of sometimes
intense radioactive contamination; groundwater contamination from
toxic waste; urban solid waste management; abandoned stocks of
obsolete pesticides


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Sulfur 85, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol,
Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic
Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Sulfur 94


Geography - note:

largest country in the world in terms of area but unfavorably
located in relation to major sea lanes of the world; despite its
size, much of the country lacks proper soils and climates (either
too cold or too dry) for agriculture; Mount El'brus is Europe's
tallest peak


People
Russia



Population:

140,702,096 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 14.6% (male 10,577,858/female 10,033,254)
15-64 years: 71.2% (male 48,187,807/female 52,045,102)
65 years and over: 14.1% (male 6,162,400/female 13,695,673) (2008
est.)


Median age:

total: 38.3 years
male: 35.1 years
female: 41.4 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

-0.474% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

11.03 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

16.06 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

0.28 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.93 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.45 male(s)/female
total population: 0.86 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 10.81 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 12.34 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 9.18 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 65.94 years
male: 59.19 years
female: 73.1 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.4 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

1.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

860,000 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

9,000 (2001 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: intermediate
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A
vectorborne disease: Crimean Congo hemorrhagic fever and tickborne
encephalitis
note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Russian(s)
adjective: Russian


Ethnic groups:

Russian 79.8%, Tatar 3.8%, Ukrainian 2%, Bashkir 1.2%, Chuvash 1.1%,
other or unspecified 12.1% (2002 census)


Religions:

Russian Orthodox 15-20%, Muslim 10-15%, other Christian 2% (2006
est.)
note: estimates are of practicing worshipers; Russia has large
populations of non-practicing believers and non-believers, a legacy
of over seven decades of Soviet rule


Languages:

Russian, many minority languages


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99.4%
male: 99.7%
female: 99.2% (2002 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 14 years
male: 13 years
female: 14 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

3.8% of GDP (2005)


Government
Russia



Country name:

conventional long form: Russian Federation
conventional short form: Russia
local long form: Rossiyskaya Federatsiya
local short form: Rossiya
former: Russian Empire, Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic


Government type:

federation


Capital:

name: Moscow
geographic coordinates: 55 45 N, 37 35 E
time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October
note: Russia is divided into 11 time zones


Administrative divisions:

46 oblasts (oblastey, singular - oblast), 21 republics (respublik,
singular - respublika), 4 autonomous okrugs (avtonomnykh okrugov,
singular - avtonomnyy okrug), 9 krays (krayev, singular - kray), 2
federal cities (goroda, singular - gorod), and 1 autonomous oblast
(avtonomnaya oblast')
oblasts: Amur (Blagoveshchensk), Arkhangel'sk, Astrakhan', Belgorod,
Bryansk, Chelyabinsk, Irkutsk, Ivanovo, Kaliningrad, Kaluga,
Kemerovo, Kirov, Kostroma, Kurgan, Kursk, Leningrad, Lipetsk,
Magadan, Moscow, Murmansk, Nizhniy Novgorod, Novgorod, Novosibirsk,
Omsk, Orenburg, Orel, Penza, Pskov, Rostov, Ryazan', Sakhalin
(Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk), Samara, Saratov, Smolensk, Sverdlovsk
(Yekaterinburg), Tambov, Tomsk, Tula, Tver', Tyumen', Ul'yanovsk,
Vladimir, Volgograd, Vologda, Voronezh, Yaroslavl'
republics: Adygeya (Maykop), Altay (Gorno-Altaysk), Bashkortostan
(Ufa), Buryatiya (Ulan-Ude), Chechnya (Groznyy), Chuvashiya
(Cheboksary), Dagestan (Makhachkala), Ingushetiya (Magas),
Kabardino-Balkariya (Nal'chik), Kalmykiya (Elista),
Karachayevo-Cherkesiya (Cherkessk), Kareliya (Petrozavodsk),
Khakasiya (Abakan), Komi (Syktyvkar), Mariy-El (Yoshkar-Ola),
Mordoviya (Saransk), North Ossetia (Vladikavkaz), Sakha [Yakutiya]
(Yakutsk), Tatarstan (Kazan'), Tyva (Kyzyl), Udmurtiya (Izhevsk)
autonomous okrugs: Chukotka (Anadyr'), Khanty-Mansi
(Khanty-Mansiysk), Nenets (Nar'yan-Mar), Yamalo-Nenets (Salekhard)
krays: Altay (Barnaul), Kamchatka (Petropavlovsk-Kamchatskiy),
Khabarovsk, Krasnodar, Krasnoyarsk, Perm', Primorskiy (Vladivostok),
Stavropol', Zabaykal'skiy (Chita)
federal cities: Moscow (Moskva), Saint Petersburg (Sankt-Peterburg)
autonomous oblast: Yevrey [Jewish] (Birobidzhan)
note: administrative divisions have the same names as their
administrative centers (exceptions have the administrative center
name following in parentheses)


Independence:

24 August 1991 (from Soviet Union)


National holiday:

Russia Day, 12 June (1990)


Constitution:

adopted 12 December 1993


Legal system:

based on civil law system; judicial review of legislative acts; has
not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Dmitriy Anatolyevich MEDVEDEV (since 7 May
2008)
head of government: Premier Vladimir Vladimirovich PUTIN (since 8
May 2008); First Deputy Premiers Igor Ivanovich SHUVALOV and Viktor
Alekseyevich ZUBKOV (since 12 May 2008); Deputy Premiers Sergey
Borisovich IVANOV (since 12 May 2008), Dmitriy Nikolayevich KOZAK
(since 14 October 2008), Aleksey Leonidovich KUDRIN (since 24
September 2007), Igor Ivanovich SECHIN (since 12 May 2008), Sergey
Semenovich SOBYANIN (since 12 May 2008), Aleksandr Dmitriyevich
ZHUKOV (since 9 March 2004), and Dmitry Nikolayevich KOZAK (since 14
October 2008)
cabinet: Ministries of the Government or "Government" composed of
the premier and his deputies, ministers, and selected other
individuals; all are appointed by the president
note: there is also a Presidential Administration (PA) that provides
staff and policy support to the president, drafts presidential
decrees, and coordinates policy among government agencies; a
Security Council also reports directly to the president
elections: president elected by popular vote for a four-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 2 March 2008 (next
to be held in March 2012); note - no vice president; if the
president dies in office, cannot exercise his powers because of ill
health, is impeached, or resigns, the premier serves as acting
president until a new presidential election is held, which must be
within three months; premier appointed by the president with the
approval of the Duma
election results: Dmitriy MEDVEDEV elected president; percent of
vote - Dmitry MEDVEDEV 70.2%, Gennady ZYUGANOV 17.7%, Vladimir
ZHIRINOVSKY 9.4%, Andrey BOGDONOV 1.3%


Legislative branch:

bicameral Federal Assembly or Federalnoye Sobraniye consists of an
upper house, the Federation Council or Sovet Federatsii (168 seats;
as of July 2000, members appointed by the top executive and
legislative officials in each of the 84 federal administrative units
- oblasts, krays, republics, autonomous okrugs and oblasts, and the
federal cities of Moscow and Saint Petersburg; to serve four-year
terms) and a lower house, the State Duma or Gosudarstvennaya Duma
(450 seats; as of 2007, all members elected by proportional
representation from party lists winning at least 7% of the vote;
members elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
elections: State Duma - last held 2 December 2007 (next to be held
in December 2011)
election results: State Duma - United Russia 64.3%, CPRF 11.5%, LDPR
8.1%, Just Russia 7.7%, other 8.4%; total seats by party - United
Russia 315, CPRF 57, LDPR 40, Just Russia 38


Judicial branch:

Constitutional Court; Supreme Court; Supreme Arbitration Court;
judges for all courts are appointed for life by the Federation
Council on the recommendation of the president


Political parties and leaders:

Communist Party of the Russian Federation or CPRF [Gennadiy
Andreyevich ZYUGANOV]; Just Russia [Sergey MIRONOV]; Liberal
Democratic Party of Russia or LDPR [Vladimir Volfovich
ZHIRINOVSKIY]; Patriots of Russia [Gennadiy SEMIGIN]; People's Union
[Sergey BABURIN]; Right Cause [Leonid Yakovlevich GOZMAN, Boris
Yuriyevich TITOV, and Georgiy Georgiyevich BOVT] (registration
pending; formed from merger of Union of Right Forces, Democratic
Party of Russia, and Civic Force); United Russia [Vladimir
Vladimirovich PUTIN]; Yabloko Party [Sergey Sergeyevich MITROKHIN]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Levada Center (conducts polls); Memorial (human rights group;
Movement Against Illegal Migration; Pamjat (preservation of
historical monuments and recording of history); Russian Orthodox
Church; Russian-Chechen Friendship Society
other: ecology groups; human rights groups; nationalist pragmatists
(no foreign influence over Central Eurasia); neo-Eurasianists
(against Western influence for the area); religious groups;
westernizers (lean towards the West)


International organization participation:

APEC, Arctic Council, ARF, ASEAN (dialogue partner), BIS, BSEC,
CBSS, CE, CERN (observer), CIS, CSTO, EAEC, EAPC, EBRD, G-8, GCTU,
IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IFC, IFRCS, IHO,
ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), IPU, ISO, ITSO,
ITU, ITUC, LAIA (observer), MIGA, MINURSO, MONUC, NAM (guest), NSG,
OAS (observer), OIC (observer), OPCW, OSCE, Paris Club, PCA, PFP,
SCO, UN, UN Security Council, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNITAR,
UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOCI, UNOMIG, UNTSO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO,
WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer), ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Yuriy Viktorovich USHAKOV
chancery: 2650 Wisconsin Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20007
telephone: [1] (202) 298-5700, 5701, 5704, 5708
FAX: [1] (202) 298-5735
consulate(s) general: Houston, New York, San Francisco, Seattle


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador John R. BEYRLE
embassy: Bolshoy Deviatinskiy Pereulok No. 8, 121099 Moscow
mailing address: PSC-77, APO AE 09721
telephone: [7] (495) 728-5000
FAX: [7] (495) 728-5090
consulate(s) general: Saint Petersburg, Vladivostok, Yekaterinburg


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of white (top), blue, and red


Economy
Russia



Economy - overview:

Russia ended 2007 with its ninth straight year of growth, averaging
7% annually since the financial crisis of 1998. Although high oil
prices and a relatively cheap ruble initially drove this growth,
since 2003 consumer demand and, more recently, investment have
played a significant role. Over the last six years, fixed capital
investments have averaged real gains greater than 10% per year and
personal incomes have achieved real gains more than 12% per year.
During this time, poverty has declined steadily and the middle class
has continued to expand. Russia has also improved its international
financial position since the 1998 financial crisis. The federal
budget has run surpluses since 2001 and ended 2007 with a surplus of
about 3% of GDP. Over the past several years, Russia has used its
stabilization fund based on oil taxes to prepay all Soviet-era
sovereign debt to Paris Club creditors and the IMF. Foreign debt is
approximately one-third of GDP. The state component of foreign debt
has declined, but commercial debt to foreigners has risen strongly.
Oil export earnings have allowed Russia to increase its foreign
reserves from $12 billion in 1999 to some $470 billion at yearend
2007, the third largest reserves in the world. During President
PUTIN's first administration, a number of important reforms were
implemented in the areas of tax, banking, labor, and land codes.
These achievements have raised business and investor confidence in
Russia's economic prospects, with foreign direct investment rising
from $14.6 billion in 2005 to approximately $45 billion in 2007. In
2007, Russia's GDP grew 8.1%, led by non-tradable services and goods
for the domestic market, as opposed to oil or mineral extraction and
exports. Rising inflation returned in the second half of 2007,
driven largely by unsterilized capital inflows and by rising food
costs, and approached 12% by year-end. In 2006, Russia signed a
bilateral market access agreement with the US as a prelude to
possible WTO entry, and its companies are involved in global merger
and acquisition activity in the oil and gas, metals, and telecom
sectors. Despite Russia's recent success, serious problems persist.
Oil, natural gas, metals, and timber account for more than 80% of
exports and 30% of government revenues, leaving the country
vulnerable to swings in world commodity prices. Russia's
manufacturing base is dilapidated and must be replaced or modernized
if the country is to achieve broad-based economic growth. The
banking system, while increasing consumer lending and growing at a
high rate, is still small relative to the banking sectors of
Russia's emerging market peers. Political uncertainties associated
with this year's power transition, corruption, and lack of trust in
institutions continue to dampen domestic and foreign investor
sentiment. PUTIN has granted more influence to forces within his
government that desire to reassert state control over the economy.
Russia has made little progress in building the rule of law, the
bedrock of a modern market economy. The government has promised
additional legislative amendments to make its intellectual property
protection WTO-consistent, but enforcement remains problematic.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$2.097 trillion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$1.29 trillion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

8.1% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$14,800 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 4.7%
industry: 39.1%
services: 56.2% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

75.1 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 10.8%
industry: 28.8%
services: 60.5% (November 2007 est.)


Unemployment rate:

6.2% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

15.8% (November 2007)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 1.9%
highest 10%: 30.4% (September 2007)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

41.3 (September 2007)


Investment (gross fixed):

21% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $299 billion
expenditures: $262 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

5.9% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

9% annual average
note: 12% at year-end (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

10% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

10.03% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$303.7 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$292.5 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$339.1 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

grain, sugar beets, sunflower seed, vegetables, fruits; beef, milk


Industries:

complete range of mining and extractive industries producing coal,
oil, gas, chemicals, and metals; all forms of machine building from
rolling mills to high-performance aircraft and space vehicles;
defense industries including radar, missile production, and advanced
electronic components, shipbuilding; road and rail transportation
equipment; communications equipment; agricultural machinery,
tractors, and construction equipment; electric power generating and
transmitting equipment; medical and scientific instruments; consumer
durables, textiles, foodstuffs, handicrafts


Industrial production growth rate:

7.4% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

964.2 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

819.6 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

15.81 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

5.67 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 66.3%
hydro: 17.2%
nuclear: 16.4%
other: 0.1% (2003)


Oil - production:

9.876 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

2.858 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

5.08 million bbl/day (2007)


Oil - imports:

73,140 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

60 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

656.2 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

610 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

237.2 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

58.3 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

47.57 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$78.31 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$355.5 billion (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

petroleum and petroleum products, natural gas, wood and wood
products, metals, chemicals, and a wide variety of civilian and
military manufactures


Exports - partners:

Netherlands 12.2%, Italy 7.8%, Germany 7.5%, Turkey 5.2%, Belarus
5%, Ukraine 4.7%, China 4.5% (2007)


Imports:

$223.4 billion (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, consumer goods, medicines, meat, sugar,
semifinished metal products


Imports - partners:

Germany 13.3%, China 12.2%, Ukraine 6.7%, Japan 6.4%, US 4.8%,
Belarus 4.4%, South Korea 4.4%, Italy 4.3% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$982.7 million in FY06 from US, including $847 million in
non-proliferation subsidies


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$476.4 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$356.5 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$271.6 billion (2006)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$209.6 billion (2006)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$1.322 trillion (2006)


Currency (code):

Russian ruble (RUB)


Currency code:

RUR


Exchange rates:

Russian rubles (RUB) per US dollar - 25.659 (2007), 27.19 (2006),
28.284 (2005), 28.814 (2004), 30.692 (2003)


Communications
Russia



Telephones - main lines in use:

43.9 million (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

170 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: the telephone system is experiencing significant
changes; there are more than 1,000 companies licensed to offer
communication services; access to digital lines has improved,
particularly in urban centers; Internet and e-mail services are
improving; Russia has made progress toward building the
telecommunications infrastructure necessary for a market economy;
the estimated number of mobile subscribers jumped from fewer than 1
million in 1998 to 170 million in 2007; a large demand for main line
service remains unsatisfied, but fixed-line operators continue to
grow their services
domestic: cross-country digital trunk lines run from Saint
Petersburg to Khabarovsk, and from Moscow to Novorossiysk; the
telephone systems in 60 regional capitals have modern digital
infrastructures; cellular services, both analog and digital, are
available in many areas; in rural areas, the telephone services are
still outdated, inadequate, and low density
international: country code - 7; Russia is connected internationally
by undersea fiber optic cables; digital switches in several cities
provide more than 50,000 lines for international calls; satellite
earth stations provide access to Intelsat, Intersputnik, Eutelsat,
Inmarsat, and Orbita systems


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 323, FM 1,500 est., shortwave 62 (2004)


Radios:

61.5 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

7,306 (1998)


Televisions:

60.5 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.ru; note - Russia also has responsibility for a legacy domain ".su"
that was allocated to the Soviet Union and is being phased out


Internet hosts:

4.822 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

300 (June 2000)


Internet users:

30 million (2007)


Transportation
Russia



Airports:

1,260 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 601
over 3,047 m: 51
2,438 to 3,047 m: 197
1,524 to 2,437 m: 129
914 to 1,523 m: 102
under 914 m: 122 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 659
over 3,047 m: 4
2,438 to 3,047 m: 13
1,524 to 2,437 m: 69
914 to 1,523 m: 89
under 914 m: 484 (2007)


Heliports:

47 (2007)


Pipelines:

condensate 122 km; gas 158,699 km; oil 72,347 km; refined products
13,658 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 87,157 km
broad gauge: 86,200 km 1.520-m gauge (40,300 km electrified)
narrow gauge: 957 km 1.067-m gauge (on Sakhalin Island)
note: an additional 30,000 km of non-common carrier lines serve
industries (2006)


Roadways:

total: 933,000 km
paved: 754,984 km (includes 30,000 km of expressways)
unpaved: 178,016 km
note: includes public, local, and departmental roads (2006)


Waterways:

102,000 km (including 33,000 km with guaranteed depth)
note: 72,000 km system in European Russia links Baltic Sea, White
Sea, Caspian Sea, Sea of Azov, and Black Sea (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 1,074
by type: bulk carrier 25, cargo 663, carrier 2, chemical tanker 27,
combination ore/oil 34, container 11, passenger 14, passenger/cargo
7, petroleum tanker 217, refrigerated cargo 59, roll on/roll off 10,
specialized tanker 5
foreign-owned: 112 (Belgium 4, Cyprus 2, Germany 1, Greece 1, Italy
4, South Korea 1, Latvia 2, Norway 2, Switzerland 3, Turkey 80,
Ukraine 11, US 1)
registered in other countries: 486 (Antigua and Barbuda 4, Bahamas
4, Belize 31, Bulgaria 1, Cambodia 83, Comoros 12, Cyprus 50,
Dominica 3, Georgia 12, Hong Kong 2, Jamaica 3, Liberia 94, Malaysia
2, Malta 58, Marshall Islands 9, Moldova 3, Mongolia 9, Panama 18,
Saint Kitts and Nevis 19, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 21,
Sierra Leone 11, Slovakia 1, Tuvalu 2, Ukraine 1, Vanuatu 2, unknown
31) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Azov, Kaliningrad, Kavkaz, Nakhodka, Novorossiysk, Primorsk, Saint
Petersburg, Vostochnyy


Military
Russia



Military branches:

Ground Forces (SV), Navy (VMF), Air Forces (Voyenno-Vozdushniye
Sily, VVS); Airborne Troops (VDV), Strategic Rocket Troops
(Raketnyye Voyska Strategicheskogo Naznacheniya, RVSN), and Space
Troops (KV) are independent "combat arms," not subordinate to any of
the three branches; Russian Ground Forces include the following
combat arms: motorized-rifle troops, tank troops, missile and
artillery troops, air defense of ground troops (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18-27 years of age for compulsory or voluntary military service;
males are registered for the draft at 17 years of age; service
obligation - 1 year; reserve obligation to age 50; as of July 2008,
a draft military strategy called for the draft to continue up to the
year 2030 (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 36,219,908
females age 16-49: 37,019,853 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 21,488,878
females age 16-49: 28,760,976 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 821,103
female: 781,570 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

3.9% of GDP (2005)


Transnational Issues
Russia



Disputes - international:

China and Russia have demarcated the once disputed islands at the
Amur and Ussuri confluence and in the Argun River in accordance with
the 2004 Agreement, ending their centuries-long border disputes; the
sovereignty dispute over the islands of Etorofu, Kunashiri,
Shikotan, and the Habomai group, known in Japan as the "Northern
Territories" and in Russia as the "Southern Kurils," occupied by the
Soviet Union in 1945, now administered by Russia, and claimed by
Japan, remains the primary sticking point to signing a peace treaty
formally ending World War II hostilities; Russia and Georgia agree
on delimiting all but small, strategic segments of the land boundary
and the maritime boundary; OSCE observers monitor volatile areas
such as the Pankisi Gorge in the Akhmeti region and the Kodori Gorge
in Abkhazia; Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, and Russia signed equidistance
boundaries in the Caspian seabed but the littoral states have no
consensus on dividing the water column; Russia and Norway dispute
their maritime limits in the Barents Sea and Russia's fishing rights
beyond Svalbard's territorial limits within the Svalbard Treaty
zone; various groups in Finland advocate restoration of Karelia
(Kareliya) and other areas ceded to the Soviet Union following the
Second World War but the Finnish Government asserts no territorial
demands; in May 2005, Russia recalled its signatures to the 1996
border agreements with Estonia (1996) and Latvia (1997), when the
two Baltic states announced issuance of unilateral declarations
referencing Soviet occupation and ensuing territorial losses; Russia
demands better treatment of ethnic Russians in Estonia and Latvia;
Estonian citizen groups continue to press for realignment of the
boundary based on the 1920 Tartu Peace Treaty that would bring the
now divided ethnic Setu people and parts of the Narva region within
Estonia; Lithuania and Russia committed to demarcating their
boundary in 2006 in accordance with the land and maritime treaty
ratified by Russia in May 2003 and by Lithuania in 1999; Lithuania
operates a simplified transit regime for Russian nationals traveling
from the Kaliningrad coastal exclave into Russia, while still
conforming, as an EU member state with an EU external border, where
strict Schengen border rules apply; preparations for the demarcation
delimitation of land boundary with Ukraine have commenced; the
dispute over the boundary between Russia and Ukraine through the
Kerch Strait and Sea of Azov remains unresolved despite a December
2003 framework agreement and on-going expert-level discussions;
Kazakhstan and Russia boundary delimitation was ratified on November
2005 and field demarcation should commence in 2007; Russian Duma has
not yet ratified 1990 Bering Sea Maritime Boundary Agreement with
the US


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

IDPs: 18,000-160,000 (displacement from Chechnya and North Ossetia)
(2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Russia is a source, transit, and destination
country for men, women, and children trafficked for various
purposes; it remains a significant source of women trafficked to
over 50 countries for commercial sexual exploitation; Russia is also
a transit and destination country for men and women trafficked from
Central Asia, Eastern Europe, and North Korea to Central and Western
Europe and the Middle East for purposes of forced labor and sexual
exploitation; internal trafficking remains a problem in Russia with
women trafficked from rural areas to urban centers for commercial
sexual exploitation, and men trafficked internally and from Central
Asia for forced labor in the construction and agricultural
industries; debt bondage is common among trafficking victims, and
child sex tourism remains a concern
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Russia is on the Tier 2 Watch List
for a fifth consecutive year for its failure to show evidence of
increasing efforts to combat trafficking over the previous year,
particularly in providing assistance to victims of trafficking;
comprehensive trafficking victim assistance legislation, which would
address key deficiencies, has been pending before the Duma since
2003 and was neither passed nor enacted in 2007 (2008)


Illicit drugs:

limited cultivation of illicit cannabis and opium poppy and producer
of methamphetamine, mostly for domestic consumption; government has
active illicit crop eradication program; used as transshipment point
for Asian opiates, cannabis, and Latin American cocaine bound for
growing domestic markets, to a lesser extent Western and Central
Europe, and occasionally to the US; major source of heroin precursor
chemicals; corruption and organized crime are key concerns; major
consumer of opiates



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Rwanda

Introduction
Rwanda



Background:

In 1959, three years before independence from Belgium, the majority
ethnic group, the Hutus, overthrew the ruling Tutsi king. Over the
next several years, thousands of Tutsis were killed, and some
150,000 driven into exile in neighboring countries. The children of
these exiles later formed a rebel group, the Rwandan Patriotic Front
(RPF), and began a civil war in 1990. The war, along with several
political and economic upheavals, exacerbated ethnic tensions,
culminating in April 1994 in the genocide of roughly 800,000 Tutsis
and moderate Hutus. The Tutsi rebels defeated the Hutu regime and
ended the killing in July 1994, but approximately 2 million Hutu
refugees - many fearing Tutsi retribution - fled to neighboring
Burundi, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zaire. Since then, most of the
refugees have returned to Rwanda, but several thousand remained in
the neighboring Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC; the former
Zaire) and formed an extremist insurgency bent on retaking Rwanda,
much as the RPF tried in 1990. Despite substantial international
assistance and political reforms - including Rwanda's first local
elections in March 1999 and its first post-genocide presidential and
legislative elections in August and September 2003 - the country
continues to struggle to boost investment and agricultural output,
and ethnic reconciliation is complicated by the real and perceived
Tutsi political dominance. Kigali's increasing centralization and
intolerance of dissent, the nagging Hutu extremist insurgency across
the border, and Rwandan involvement in two wars in recent years in
the neighboring DRC continue to hinder Rwanda's efforts to escape
its bloody legacy.


Geography
Rwanda



Location:

Central Africa, east of Democratic Republic of the Congo


Geographic coordinates:

2 00 S, 30 00 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 26,338 sq km
land: 24,948 sq km
water: 1,390 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Maryland


Land boundaries:

total: 893 km
border countries: Burundi 290 km, Democratic Republic of the Congo
217 km, Tanzania 217 km, Uganda 169 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

temperate; two rainy seasons (February to April, November to
January); mild in mountains with frost and snow possible


Terrain:

mostly grassy uplands and hills; relief is mountainous with altitude
declining from west to east


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Rusizi River 950 m
highest point: Volcan Karisimbi 4,519 m


Natural resources:

gold, cassiterite (tin ore), wolframite (tungsten ore), methane,
hydropower, arable land


Land use:

arable land: 45.56%
permanent crops: 10.25%
other: 44.19% (2005)


Irrigated land:

90 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

5.2 cu km (2003)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.15 cu km/yr (24%/8%/68%)
per capita: 17 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

periodic droughts; the volcanic Virunga mountains are in the
northwest along the border with Democratic Republic of the Congo


Environment - current issues:

deforestation results from uncontrolled cutting of trees for fuel;
overgrazing; soil exhaustion; soil erosion; widespread poaching


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea


Geography - note:

landlocked; most of the country is savanna grassland with the
population predominantly rural


People
Rwanda



Population:

10,186,063
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 41.9% (male 2,143,479/female 2,124,588)
15-64 years: 55.7% (male 2,826,557/female 2,842,020)
65 years and over: 2.4% (male 99,721/female 149,698) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 18.7 years
male: 18.5 years
female: 18.9 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.779% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

39.97 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

14.46 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

2.29 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.67 male(s)/female
total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 83.42 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 88.53 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 78.16 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 49.76 years
male: 48.56 years
female: 51 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

5.31 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

5.1% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

250,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

22,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever
vectorborne disease: malaria (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Rwandan(s)
adjective: Rwandan


Ethnic groups:

Hutu (Bantu) 84%, Tutsi (Hamitic) 15%, Twa (Pygmy) 1%


Religions:

Roman Catholic 56.5%, Protestant 26%, Adventist 11.1%, Muslim 4.6%,
indigenous beliefs 0.1%, none 1.7% (2001)


Languages:

Kinyarwanda (official) universal Bantu vernacular, French
(official), English (official), Kiswahili (Swahili) used in
commercial centers


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 70.4%
male: 76.3%
female: 64.7% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 9 years
male: 8 years
female: 9 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

3.8% of GDP (2005)


People - note:

Rwanda is the most densely populated country in Africa


Government
Rwanda



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Rwanda
conventional short form: Rwanda
local long form: Republika y'u Rwanda
local short form: Rwanda
former: Ruanda, German East Africa


Government type:

republic; presidential, multiparty system


Capital:

name: Kigali
geographic coordinates: 1 57 S, 30 04 E
time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

4 provinces (in French - provinces, singular - province; in
Kinyarwanda - intara for singular and plural) and 1 city* (in French
- ville; in Kinyarwanda - umujyi); Est (Eastern), Kigali*, Nord
(Northern), Ouest (Western), Sud (Southern)


Independence:

1 July 1962 (from Belgium-administered UN trusteeship)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 1 July (1962)


Constitution:

new constitution passed by referendum 26 May 2003


Legal system:

based on German and Belgian civil law systems and customary law;
judicial review of legislative acts in the Supreme Court; has not
accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Paul KAGAME (since 22 April 2000)
head of government: Prime Minister Bernard MAKUZA (since 8 March
2000)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
elections: President elected by popular vote for a seven-year term
(eligible for a second term); elections last held 25 August 2003
(next to be held in 2010)
election results: Paul KAGAME elected president in first direct
popular vote; Paul KAGAME 95.05%, Faustin TWAGIRAMUNGU 3.62%,
Jean-Nepomuscene NAYINZIRA 1.33%


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament consists of Senate (26 seats; 12 members
elected by local councils, 8 appointed by the president, 4 by the
Political Organizations Forum, 2 represent institutions of higher
learning; to serve eight-year terms) and Chamber of Deputies (80
seats; 53 members elected by popular vote, 24 women elected by local
bodies, 3 selected by youth and disability organizations; to serve
five-year terms)
elections: Senate - members appointed as part of the transitional
government (next to be held in 2011); Chamber of Deputies - last
held 15 September 2008 (next to be held September 2013)
election results: percent of vote by party - RPF 78.8%, PSD 13.1%,
PL 7.5%; seats by party - RPF 42, PSD 7, PL 4, additional 27 members
indirectly elected


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court; High Courts of the Republic; Provincial Courts;
District Courts; mediation committees


Political parties and leaders:

Centrist Democratic Party or PDC [Alfred MUKEZAMFURA]; Democratic
Popular Union of Rwanda or UDPR [Adrien RANGIRA]; Democratic
Republican Movement or MDR [Celestin KABANDA] (officially banned);
Islamic Democratic Party or PDI [Andre BUMAYA]; Liberal Party or PL
[Protais MITALI]; Party for Democratic Renewal (officially banned);
Rwandan Patriotic Front or RPF [Paul KAGAME]; Social Democratic
Party or PSD [Vincent BIRUTA]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

IBUKA (association of genocide survivors)


International organization participation:

ACP, AfDB, AU, CEPGL, COMESA, EAC, EADB, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO,
ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO
(correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURCAT, NAM, OIF, OPCW,
UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIS, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO,
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador James KOMONYO
chancery: 1714 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009
telephone: [1] (202) 232-2882
FAX: [1] (202) 232-4544


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador W. Stuart SYMINGTON
embassy: 2657 Avenue de la Gendarmerie, Kigali
mailing address: B. P. 28, Kigali
telephone: [250] 596-400
FAX: [250] 596-591


Flag description:

three horizontal bands of sky blue (top, double width), yellow, and
green, with a golden sun with 24 rays near the fly end of the blue
band


Economy
Rwanda



Economy - overview:

Rwanda is a poor rural country with about 90% of the population
engaged in (mainly subsistence) agriculture. It is the most densely
populated country in Africa and is landlocked with few natural
resources and minimal industry. Primary foreign exchange earners are
coffee and tea. The 1994 genocide decimated Rwanda's fragile
economic base, severely impoverished the population, particularly
women, and eroded the country's ability to attract private and
external investment. However, Rwanda has made substantial progress
in stabilizing and rehabilitating its economy to pre-1994 levels,
although poverty levels are higher now. GDP has rebounded and
inflation has been curbed. Despite Rwanda's fertile ecosystem, food
production often does not keep pace with population growth,
requiring food imports. Rwanda continues to receive substantial aid
money and obtained IMF-World Bank Heavily Indebted Poor Country
(HIPC) initiative debt relief in 2005-06. Rwanda also received
Millennium Challenge Account Threshold status in 2006. The
government has embraced an expansionary fiscal policy to reduce
poverty by improving education, infrastructure, and foreign and
domestic investment and pursuing market-oriented reforms, although
energy shortages, instability in neighboring states, and lack of
adequate transportation linkages to other countries continue to
handicap growth.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$8.057 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$3.32 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$800 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 36.9%
industry: 21.7%
services: 41.4% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

4.6 million (2000)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 90%
industry and services: 10% (2000)


Unemployment rate:

NA%


Population below poverty line:

60% (2001 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.1%
highest 10%: 38.2% (2000)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

46.8 (2000)


Investment (gross fixed):

22% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $801.8 million
expenditures: $878.3 million; including capital expenditures of $NA
(2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

9.1% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

12.5% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

15.84% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$233.6 million (31 December 2005)


Stock of quasi money:

$227.4 million (31 December 2005)


Stock of domestic credit:

$209.2 million (31 December 2005)


Agriculture - products:

coffee, tea, pyrethrum (insecticide made from chrysanthemums),
bananas, beans, sorghum, potatoes; livestock


Industries:

cement, agricultural products, small-scale beverages, soap,
furniture, shoes, plastic goods, textiles, cigarettes


Industrial production growth rate:

13.1% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

134 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

234.6 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

10 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

130 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 2.3%
hydro: 97.7%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

5,320 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

5,597 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

56.63 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$147 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$184 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

coffee, tea, hides, tin ore


Exports - partners:

China 8.9%, Germany 6.8%, US 4.9%, Hong Kong 4.8% (2007)


Imports:

$637 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

foodstuffs, machinery and equipment, steel, petroleum products,
cement and construction material


Imports - partners:

Kenya 19.6%, Uganda 6.9%, Germany 6.2%, Belgium 5.9%, China 5% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$576 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$552.8 million (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$1.4 billion (2004 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Rwandan franc (RWF)


Currency code:

RWF


Exchange rates:

Rwandan francs (RWF) per US dollar - 585 (2007), 560 (2006), 610
(2005), 574.62 (2004), 537.66 (2003)


Communications
Rwanda



Telephones - main lines in use:

23,100 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

635,100 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: small, inadequate telephone system primarily
serves business and government
domestic: the capital, Kigali, is connected to the centers of the
provinces by microwave radio relay and, recently, by cellular
telephone service; much of the network depends on wire and HF
radiotelephone; combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular telephone
density is only about 7 telephones per 100 persons
international: country code - 250; international connections employ
microwave radio relay to neighboring countries and satellite
communications to more distant countries; satellite earth stations -
1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean) in Kigali (includes telex and telefax
service)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 0, FM 8 (two main FM programs are broadcast through a system of
repeaters, three international FM programs include the BBC, VOA, and
Deutchewelle), shortwave 1 (2005)


Radios:

601,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

2 (2004)


Televisions:

NA; probably less than 1,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.rw


Internet hosts:

2,363 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

2 (2002)


Internet users:

100,000 (2007)


Transportation
Rwanda



Airports:

9 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 4
over 3,047 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 2
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 5
914 to 1,523 m: 2
under 914 m: 3 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 14,008 km
paved: 2,662 km
unpaved: 11,346 km (2004)


Waterways:

Lac Kivu navigable by shallow-draft barges and native craft (2006)


Ports and terminals:

Cyangugu, Gisenyi, Kibuye


Military
Rwanda



Military branches:

Rwandan Defense Forces: Army, Air Force


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service; no conscription
(2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,430,469
females age 16-49: 2,392,933 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,404,066
females age 16-49: 1,403,700 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 111,791
female: 112,131 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

2.9% of GDP (2006 est.)


Transnational Issues
Rwanda



Disputes - international:

fighting among ethnic groups - loosely associated political rebels,
armed gangs, and various government forces in Great Lakes region
transcending the boundaries of Burundi, Democratic Republic of the
Congo, Rwanda, and Uganda - abated substantially from a decade ago
due largely to UN peacekeeping, international mediation, and efforts
by local governments to create civil societies; nonetheless, 57,000
Rwandan refugees still reside in 21 African states, including
Zambia, Gabon, and 20,000 who fled to Burundi in 2005 and 2006 to
escape drought and recriminations from traditional courts
investigating the 1994 massacres; the 2005 DROC and Rwanda border
verification mechanism to stem rebel actions on both sides of the
border remains in place


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 46,272 (Democratic Republic of the
Congo); 4,400 (Burundi) (2007)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Saint Barthelemy

Introduction
Saint Barthelemy



Background:

Discovered in 1493 by Christopher COLUMBUS who named it for his
brother Bartolomeo, St. Barthelemy was first settled by the French
in 1648. In 1784, the French sold the island to Sweden, who renamed
the largest town Gustavia, after the Swedish King GUSTAV III, and
made it a free port; the island prospered as a trade and supply
center during the colonial wars of the 18th century. France
repurchased the island in 1878 and placed it under the
administration of Guadeloupe. St. Barthelemy retained its free port
status along with various Swedish appelations such as Swedish street
and town names, and the three-crown symbol on the coat of arms. In
2003, the populace of the island voted to secede from Guadeloupe and
in 2007, the island became a French overseas collectivity.


Geography
Saint Barthelemy



Location:

located approximately 125 miles northwest of Guadeloupe


Geographic coordinates:

17 90 N, 62 85 W


Map references:

Central America and the Caribbean


Area:

21 sq km


Area - comparative:

less than an eighth of the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Climate:

tropical, with practically no variation in temperature; has two
seasons (dry and humid)


Terrain:

hilly, almost completely surrounded by shallow-water reefs, with 20
beaches


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Caribbean Ocean 0 m
highest point: Morne du Vitet 286 m


Natural resources:

has few natural resouces, its beaches being the most important


Environment - current issues:

with no natural rivers or streams, fresh water is in short supply,
especially in summer, and provided by desalinization of sea water,
collection of rain water, or imported via water tanker


People
Saint Barthelemy



Population:

7,492 (July 2008 est.)


Ethnic groups:

white, Creole (mulatto), black, Guadeloupe Mestizo (French-East Asia)


Religions:

Roman Catholic, Protestant, Jehovah's Witness


Languages:

French (primary), English


Government
Saint Barthelemy



Country name:

conventional long form: Overseas Collectivity of Saint Barthelemy
conventional short form: Saint Barthelemy
local long form: Collectivite d'outre mer de Saint-Barthelemy
local short form: Saint-Barthelemy


Dependency status:

overseas collectivity of France


Capital:

name: Gustavia
geographic coordinates: 17 53 N, 62 51 W
time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC, during
Standard Time)


Independence:

none (overseas collectivity of France)


National holiday:

Bastille Day, 14 July (1789); note - local holiday is St. Barthelemy
Day, 24 August


Constitution:

4 October 1958 (French Constitution)


Legal system:

the laws of France, where applicable, apply


Suffrage:

18 years of age, universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Nicolas SARKOZY (since 16 May 2007),
represented by Prefect Dominique LACROIX (since 21 March 2007)
head of government: President of the Territorial Council Bruno
MAGRAS (since 16 July 2007)
cabinet: Executive Council; note - there is also an advisory,
economic, social, and cultural council
elections: French president elected by popular vote for a five-year
term; prefect appointed by the French president on the advice of the
French Ministry of Interior; president of the Territorial Council is
elected by the members of the Council for a five-year term
election results: Bruno MAGRAS unanimously elected president by the
Territorial Council on 16 July 2007


Legislative branch:

unicameral Territorial Council (19 seats; members are elected by
popular vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held 1 and 8 July 2007 (next to be held July 2012)
election results: percent of vote by party - SBA 72.2%,
Action-Equilibre-Transparence 9.9%, Ensemble pour Saint-Barthelemy
7.9%, Tous Unis pour Saint-Barthelemy 9.9%; seats by party - SBA 16,
Action-Equilibre-Transparence 1, Ensemble pour Saint-Barthelemy 1,
Tous Unis pour Saint-Barthelemy 1


Political parties and leaders:

Action-Equilibre-Transparence [Maxime DESOUCHES]; Ensemble pour
Saint-Barthelemy [Benoit CHAUVIN]; Saint-Barth d'Abord! or SBA
[Bruno MAGRAS]; Tous Unis pour Saint-Barthelemy [Karine MIOT-RICHARD]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

The Marine Reserve (protection of fish); Rotary Club


International organization participation:

UPU, WFTU


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (overseas collectivity of France)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (overseas collectivity of France)


Flag description:

the flag of France is used


Economy
Saint Barthelemy



Economy - overview:

The economy of Saint Barthelemy is based upon high-end tourism and
duty-free luxury commerce, serving visitors primarily from North
America. The luxury hotels and villas host 70,000 visitors each year
with another 130,000 arriving by boat. The relative isolation and
high cost of living inhibits mass tourism. The construction and
public sectors also enjoy significant investment in support of
tourism. With limited fresh water resources, all food must be
imported, as must all energy resources and most manufactured goods.
Employment is strong and attracts labor from Brazil and Portugal.


Currency (code):

euro (EUR); note - US dollar (USD) widely used


Exchange rates:

euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006), 0.8041
(2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)


Communications
Saint Barthelemy



Telephone system:

general assessment: fully integrated access
domestic: direct dial capability with both fixed and wireless systems
international: country code - 590; undersea fiber-optic cable
provides voice and data connectivity to Puerto Rico and Guadeloupe


Internet country code:

.bl; note - .gp, the ccTLD for Guadeloupe, and .fr, the ccTLD for
France, might also be encountered


Transportation
Saint Barthelemy



Airports:

1


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
under 914 m: 1


Transportation - note:

nearest airport for international flights is Princess Juliana
International Airport (SXM) located in Sint Maarten (Netherlands
Antilles)


Military
Saint Barthelemy



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 21
female: 20 (2008 est.)


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of France




This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Saint Helena

Introduction
Saint Helena



Background:

Saint Helena is a British Overseas Territory consisting of Saint
Helena and Ascension Islands, and the island group of Tristan da
Cunha.
Saint Helena: Uninhabited when first discovered by the Portuguese in
1502, Saint Helena was garrisoned by the British during the 17th
century. It acquired fame as the place of Napoleon BONAPARTE's
exile, from 1815 until his death in 1821, but its importance as a
port of call declined after the opening of the Suez Canal in 1869.
During the Anglo-Boer War in South Africa, several thousand Boer
prisoners were confined on the island between 1900 and 1903.
Ascension Island: This barren and uninhabited island was discovered
and named by the Portuguese in 1503. The British garrisoned the
island in 1815 to prevent a rescue of Napoleon from Saint Helena and
it served as a provisioning station for the Royal Navy's West Africa
Squadron on anti-slavery patrol. The island remained under Admiralty
control until 1922, when it became a dependency of Saint Helena.
During World War II, the UK permitted the US to construct an
airfield on Ascension in support of trans-Atlantic flights to Africa
and anti-submarine operations in the South Atlantic. In the 1960s
the island became an important space tracking station for the US. In
1982, Ascension was an essential staging area for British forces
during the Falklands War, and it remains a critical refueling point
in the air-bridge from the UK to the South Atlantic.
Tristan da Cunha: The island group consists of the islands of
Tristan da Cunha, Nightingale, Inaccessible, and Gough. Tristan da
Cunha is named after its Portuguese discoverer (1506); it was
garrisoned by the British in 1816 to prevent any attempt to rescue
Napoleon from Saint Helena. Gough and Inaccessible Islands have been
designated World Heritage Sites. South Africa leases a site for a
meteorological station on Gough Island.


Geography
Saint Helena



Location:

islands in the South Atlantic Ocean, about midway between South
America and Africa; Ascension Island lies 700 nm northwest of Saint
Helena; Tristan da Cunha lies 2300 nm southwest of Saint Helena


Geographic coordinates:

Saint Helena: 15 57 S, 5 42 W
Ascension Island: 7 57 S, 14 22 W
Tristan da Cunha island group: 37 15 S, 12 30 W


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 413 sq km
land: Saint Helena Island 122 sq km; Ascension Island 90 sq km;
Tristan da Cunha island group 201 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly more than twice the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

Saint Helena: 60 km
Ascension Island: NA
Tristan da Cunha: 40 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm


Climate:

Saint Helena: tropical marine; mild, tempered by trade winds
Ascension Island: tropical marine; mild, semi-arid
Tristan da Cunha: temperate marine; mild, tempered by trade winds
(tends to be cooler than Saint Helena)


Terrain:

the islands of this group result from volcanic activity associated
with the Atlantic Mid-Ocean Ridge
Saint Helena: rugged, volcanic; small scattered plateaus and plains
Ascension: surface covered by lava flows and cinder cones of 44
dormant volcanoes; ground rises to the east
Tristan da Cunha: sheer cliffs line the coastline of the nearly
circular island; the flanks of the central volcanic peak are deeply
dissected; narrow coastal plain lies between The Peak and the
coastal cliffs


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Queen Mary's Peak on Tristan da Cunha 2,062 m; Green
Mountain on Ascension Island 859 m; Mount Actaeon on Saint Helena
Island 818 m


Natural resources:

fish, lobster


Land use:

arable land: 12.9%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 87.1% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

active volcanism on Tristan da Cunha, last eruption in 1961


Environment - current issues:

NA


Geography - note:

Saint Helena harbors at least 40 species of plants unknown anywhere
else in the world; Ascension is a breeding ground for sea turtles
and sooty terns; Queen Mary's Peak on Tristan da Cunha is the
highest island mountain in the South Atlantic and a prominent
landmark on the sea lanes around southern Africa


People
Saint Helena



Population:

7,601
note: only Saint Helena, Ascension, and Tristan da Cunha islands are
inhabited (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 18.5% (male 716/female 690)
15-64 years: 70.7% (male 2,754/female 2,618)
65 years and over: 10.8% (male 381/female 442) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 37.1 years
male: 37.2 years
female: 37 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.487% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

11.45 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

6.58 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.86 male(s)/female
total population: 1.03 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 18.31 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 21.47 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 14.98 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 78.27 years
male: 75.36 years
female: 81.33 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.56 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Saint Helenian(s)
adjective: Saint Helenian
note: referred to locally as "Saints"


Ethnic groups:

African descent 50%, white 25%, Chinese 25%


Religions:

Anglican (majority), Baptist, Seventh-Day Adventist, Roman Catholic


Languages:

English


Literacy:

definition: age 20 and over can read and write
total population: 97%
male: 97%
female: 98% (1987 est.)


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Saint Helena



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Saint Helena


Dependency status:

overseas territory of the UK


Government type:

NA


Capital:

name: Jamestown
geographic coordinates: 15 56 S, 5 44 W
time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

1 administrative area and 2 dependencies*; Ascension*, Saint Helena,
Tristan da Cunha*


Independence:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


National holiday:

Birthday of Queen ELIZABETH II, second Saturday in June (1926)


Constitution:

1 January 1989


Legal system:

English common law and statutes, supplemented by local statutes


Suffrage:

NA years of age


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952)
head of government: Governor and Commander in Chief Andrew GURR
(since 11 November 2007)
cabinet: Executive Council consists of the governor, three
ex-officio officers, and five elected members of the Legislative
Council
elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor is appointed by the
monarch


Legislative branch:

unicameral Legislative Council (16 seats, including the speaker,
three ex officio and 12 elected members; members are elected by
popular vote to serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 31 August 2005 (next to be held in 2009)
election results: percent of vote - NA; seats - independents 12


Judicial branch:

Magistrate's Court; Supreme Court; Court of Appeal


Political parties and leaders:

none


Political pressure groups and leaders:

other: private sector; unions


International organization participation:

UPU, WFTU


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


Flag description:

blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and
the Saint Helenian shield centered on the outer half of the flag;
the shield features a rocky coastline and three-masted sailing ship


Economy
Saint Helena



Economy - overview:

The economy depends largely on financial assistance from the UK,
which will amount to about $27 million in FY06/07 or almost 70% of
annual budgetary revenues. The local population earns income from
fishing, raising livestock, and sales of handicrafts. Because there
are few jobs, 25% of the work force has left to seek employment on
Ascension Island, on the Falklands, and in the UK.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$18 million (1998 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$NA


GDP - real growth rate:

NA%


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$2,500 (1998 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: NA%
industry: NA%
services: NA%


Labor force:

2,486
note: 1,200 work offshore (1998 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 6%
industry: 48%
services: 46% (1987 est.)


Unemployment rate:

14% (1998 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $13.09 million
expenditures: $32.16 million
note: revenue data reflect locally raised revenues only; the budget
deficit is resolved by grant aid from the United Kingdom (FY06/07
est.)


Fiscal year:

1 April - 31 March


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

3.2% (1997 est.)


Agriculture - products:

coffee, corn, potatoes, vegetables; timber; fish, lobster (on
Tristan da Cunha); livestock


Industries:

construction, crafts (furniture, lacework, fancy woodwork), fishing,
philatelic sales


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

8 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

7.44 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

60 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

85.42 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Exports:

$19 million f.o.b. (2004 est.)


Exports - commodities:

fish (frozen, canned, and salt-dried skipjack, tuna), coffee,
handicrafts


Exports - partners:

Tanzania 37.7%, US 17.4%, Japan 15.2%, UK 8.4%, Nigeria 4.8%, Spain
4.5% (2006)


Imports:

$45 million c.i.f. (2004 est.)


Imports - commodities:

food, beverages, tobacco, fuel oils, animal feed, building
materials, motor vehicles and parts, machinery and parts


Imports - partners:

UK 53.5%, South Africa 14.3%, Spain 10.3%, Tanzania 8.5%, US 4.6%
(2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$29.56 million obtained in a grant from the United Kingdom (FY06/07)


Debt - external:

$NA


Currency (code):

Saint Helenian pound (SHP)


Currency code:

SHP


Exchange rates:

Saint Helenian pounds (SHP) per US dollar - 0.4993 (2007), 0.5434
(2006), 0.5493 (2005), 0.5462 (2004), 0.6125 (2003)
note: the Saint Helenian pound is on par with the British pound


Communications
Saint Helena



Telephones - main lines in use:

2,200 (2002)


Telephone system:

general assessment: can communicate worldwide
domestic: automatic digital network
international: country code (Saint Helena) - 290, (Ascension Island)
- 247; international direct dialing; satellite voice and data
communications; satellite earth stations - 5 (Ascension Island - 4,
Saint Helena - 1)


Radio broadcast stations:

Saint Helena: AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 0
Ascension: AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 1 (2005)


Radios:

3,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

0 (3 television channels are received via satellite and distributed
by UHF) (2005)


Televisions:

2,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.sh; note - Ascension Island assigned .ac


Internet hosts:

306 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

1,000; note - includes Ascension Island (2003)


Communications - note:

South Africa maintains a meteorological station on Gough Island


Transportation
Saint Helena



Airports:

1 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
over 3,047 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 198 km (Saint Helena 138 km, Ascension 40 km, Tristan da
Cunha 20 km)
paved: 168 km (Saint Helena 118 km, Ascension 40 km, Tristan da
Cunha 10 km)
unpaved: 30 km (Saint Helena 20 km, Ascension 0 km, Tristan da Cunha
10 km) (2002)


Ports and terminals:

Saint Helena: Jamestown
Ascension Island: Georgetown
Tristan da Cunha: Calshot Harbor


Transportation - note:

there is no air connection to Saint Helena or Tristan da Cunha; an
international airport for Saint Helena is in development for 2010


Military
Saint Helena



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 47
female: 43 (2008 est.)


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of the UK


Transnational Issues
Saint Helena



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Saint Kitts and Nevis

Introduction
Saint Kitts and Nevis



Background:

First settled by the British in 1623, the islands became an
associated state with full internal autonomy in 1967. The island of
Anguilla rebelled and was allowed to secede in 1971. Saint Kitts and
Nevis achieved independence in 1983. In 1998, a vote in Nevis on a
referendum to separate from Saint Kitts fell short of the two-thirds
majority needed. Nevis continues in its efforts to try and separate
from Saint Kitts.


Geography
Saint Kitts and Nevis



Location:

Caribbean, islands in the Caribbean Sea, about one-third of the way
from Puerto Rico to Trinidad and Tobago


Geographic coordinates:

17 20 N, 62 45 W


Map references:

Central America and the Caribbean


Area:

total: 261 sq km (Saint Kitts 168 sq km; Nevis 93 sq km)
land: 261 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

1.5 times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

135 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin


Climate:

tropical, tempered by constant sea breezes; little seasonal
temperature variation; rainy season (May to November)


Terrain:

volcanic with mountainous interiors


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
highest point: Mount Liamuiga 1,156 m


Natural resources:

arable land


Land use:

arable land: 19.44%
permanent crops: 2.78%
other: 77.78% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Total renewable water resources:

0.02 cu km (2000)


Natural hazards:

hurricanes (July to October)


Environment - current issues:

NA


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

with coastlines in the shape of a baseball bat and ball, the two
volcanic islands are separated by a 3-km-wide channel called The
Narrows; on the southern tip of long, baseball bat-shaped Saint
Kitts lies the Great Salt Pond; Nevis Peak sits in the center of its
almost circular namesake island and its ball shape complements that
of its sister island


People
Saint Kitts and Nevis



Population:

39,817 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 26.7% (male 5,439/female 5,186)
15-64 years: 65.3% (male 13,018/female 12,968)
65 years and over: 8.1% (male 1,334/female 1,872) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 28.4 years
male: 27.7 years
female: 29.1 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.723% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

17.73 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

8.19 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-2.31 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.71 male(s)/female
total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 14.34 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 16.09 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 12.48 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 72.94 years
male: 70.08 years
female: 75.98 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.28 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Kittitian(s), Nevisian(s)
adjective: Kittitian, Nevisian


Ethnic groups:

predominantly black; some British, Portuguese, and Lebanese


Religions:

Anglican, other Protestant, Roman Catholic


Languages:

English


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over has ever attended school
total population: 97.8%
male: NA%
female: NA% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 12 years
male: 12 years
female: 13 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

9.3% of GDP (2005)


Government
Saint Kitts and Nevis



Country name:

conventional long form: Federation of Saint Kitts and Nevis
conventional short form: Saint Kitts and Nevis
former: Federation of Saint Christopher and Nevis


Government type:

parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Basseterre
geographic coordinates: 17 18 N, 62 43 W
time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

14 parishes; Christ Church Nichola Town, Saint Anne Sandy Point,
Saint George Basseterre, Saint George Gingerland, Saint James
Windward, Saint John Capesterre, Saint John Figtree, Saint Mary
Cayon, Saint Paul Capesterre, Saint Paul Charlestown, Saint Peter
Basseterre, Saint Thomas Lowland, Saint Thomas Middle Island,
Trinity Palmetto Point


Independence:

19 September 1983 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 19 September (1983)


Constitution:

19 September 1983


Legal system:

based on English common law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by Governor General Cuthbert Montraville SEBASTIAN
(since 1 January 1996)
head of government: Prime Minister Dr. Denzil DOUGLAS (since 6 July
1995); Deputy Prime Minister Sam CONDOR (since 6 July 1995)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the governor general in consultation
with the prime minister
elections: the monarch is hereditary; the governor general is
appointed by the monarch; following legislative elections, the
leader of the majority party or leader of a majority coalition is
usually appointed prime minister by the governor general; deputy
prime minister appointed by the governor general


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly (14 seats, 3 appointed and 11 popularly
elected from single-member constituencies; members serve five-year
terms)
elections: last held 25 October 2004 (next to be held by 2009)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
SKNLP 7, CCM 2, NRP 1, PAM 1


Judicial branch:

Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court (based on Saint Lucia; one judge of
the Supreme Court resides in Saint Kitts and Nevis)


Political parties and leaders:

Concerned Citizens Movement or CCM [Vance AMORY]; Nevis Reformation
Party or NRP [Joseph PARRY]; People's Action Movement or PAM
[Lindsay GRANT]; Saint Kitts and Nevis Labor Party or SKNLP [Dr.
Denzil DOUGLAS]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

ACP, C, Caricom, CDB, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD,
IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, ITU, MIGA, NAM, OAS, OECS,
OPANAL, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Dr. Izben Cordinal WILLIAMS
chancery: 3216 New Mexico Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20016
telephone: [1] (202) 686-2636
FAX: [1] (202) 686-5740
consulate(s) general: New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

the US does not have an embassy in Saint Kitts and Nevis; the US
Ambassador to Barbados is accredited to Saint Kitts and Nevis


Flag description:

divided diagonally from the lower hoist side by a broad black band
bearing two white, five-pointed stars; the black band is edged in
yellow; the upper triangle is green, the lower triangle is red


Economy
Saint Kitts and Nevis



Economy - overview:

Sugar was the traditional mainstay of the Saint Kitts economy until
the 1970s. Following the 2005 harvest, the government closed the
sugar industry after decades of losses of 3-4% of GDP annually. To
compensate for employment losses, the government has embarked on a
program to diversify the agricultural sector and to stimulate other
sectors of the economy. Activities such as tourism, export-oriented
manufacturing, and offshore banking have assumed larger roles in the
economy and have contributed to the recent robust growth. Tourism
revenues are now the chief source of the islands' foreign exchange;
about 341,800 tourists visited Nevis in 2005. The current government
is constrained by a high debt burden, public debt reached 190% of
GDP by the end of 2005, largely attributable to public enterprise
losses.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$721 million (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$527 million (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

3.3% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$13,900 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 3.5%
industry: 25.8%
services: 70.7% (2001)


Labor force:

18,170 (June 1995)


Unemployment rate:

4.5% (1997)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $89.7 million
expenditures: $128.2 million (2003 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

4.5% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

6.5% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

9.28% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$97.31 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$688.6 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$782.4 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

sugarcane, rice, yams, vegetables, bananas; fish


Industries:

tourism, cotton, salt, copra, clothing, footwear, beverages


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

130 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

120.9 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

950 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

917.8 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$163 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$84 million (2006)


Exports - commodities:

machinery, food, electronics, beverages, tobacco


Exports - partners:

US 66.3%, Canada 4.9%, Turkey 3.3% (2007)


Imports:

$383 million (2006)


Imports - commodities:

machinery, manufactures, food, fuels


Imports - partners:

US 47.7%, Trinidad and Tobago 13.3%, UK 5.6% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$3.52 million (2005)


Debt - external:

$314 million (2004)


Currency (code):

East Caribbean dollar (XCD)


Currency code:

XCD


Exchange rates:

East Caribbean dollars (XCD) per US dollar - 2.7 (2007), 2.7 (2006),
2.7 (2005), 2.7 (2004), 2.7 (2003)


Communications
Saint Kitts and Nevis



Telephones - main lines in use:

25,000 (2004)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

10,000 (2004)


Telephone system:

general assessment: good interisland and international connections
domestic: interisland links via Eastern Caribbean Fiber Optic cable;
construction of enhanced wireless infrastructure launched in
November 2004
international: country code - 1-869; connected internationally by
the East Caribbean Fiber Optic System (ECFS) and Southern Caribbean
fiber optic system (SCF) submarine cables


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 3, FM 3, shortwave 0 (2003)


Radios:

28,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (plus 3 repeaters) (2003)


Televisions:

10,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.kn


Internet hosts:

45 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

16 (2000)


Internet users:

10,000 (2002)


Transportation
Saint Kitts and Nevis



Airports:

2 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)


Railways:

total: 50 km
narrow gauge: 50 km 0.762-m gauge on Saint Kitts for tourists (2006)


Roadways:

total: 320 km
paved: 163 km
unpaved: 220 km (2002)


Merchant marine:

total: 159
by type: bulk carrier 10, cargo 109, chemical tanker 7, container 1,
liquefied gas 1, passenger 1, passenger/cargo 2, petroleum tanker
19, refrigerated cargo 7, roll on/roll off 1, specialized tanker 1
foreign-owned: 121 (Belgium 1, Cyprus 1, Egypt 2, Estonia 3, Finland
1, Greece 3, India 1, Italy 1, Japan 3, Kuwait 1, Latvia 5, Malaysia
1, Pakistan 3, Romania 1, Russia 19, Singapore 1, Spain 1, Syria 7,
Turkey 35, Ukraine 9, UAE 18, UK 3, Yemen 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Basseterre


Military
Saint Kitts and Nevis



Military branches:

Saint Kitts and Nevis Defense Force (includes Coast Guard), Royal
Saint Kitts and Nevis Police Force


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service; no conscription
(2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 10,095
females age 16-49: 10,081 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 8,064
females age 16-49: 8,464 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 367
female: 352 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

NA


Transnational Issues
Saint Kitts and Nevis



Disputes - international:

joins other Caribbean states to counter Venezuela's claim that Aves
Island sustains human habitation, a criterion under UNCLOS, which
permits Venezuela to extend its EEZ/continental shelf over a large
portion of the eastern Caribbean Sea


Illicit drugs:

transshipment point for South American drugs destined for the US and
Europe; some money-laundering activity



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Saint Lucia

Introduction
Saint Lucia



Background:

The island, with its fine natural harbor at Castries, was contested
between England and France throughout the 17th and early 18th
centuries (changing possession 14 times); it was finally ceded to
the UK in 1814. Even after the abolition of slavery on its
plantations in 1834, Saint Lucia remained an agricultural island,
dedicated to producing tropical commodity crops. Self-government was
granted in 1967 and independence in 1979.


Geography
Saint Lucia



Location:

Caribbean, island between the Caribbean Sea and North Atlantic
Ocean, north of Trinidad and Tobago


Geographic coordinates:

13 53 N, 60 58 W


Map references:

Central America and the Caribbean


Area:

total: 616 sq km
land: 606 sq km
water: 10 sq km


Area - comparative:

3.5 times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

158 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin


Climate:

tropical, moderated by northeast trade winds; dry season January to
April, rainy season May to August


Terrain:

volcanic and mountainous with some broad, fertile valleys


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
highest point: Mount Gimie 950 m


Natural resources:

forests, sandy beaches, minerals (pumice), mineral springs,
geothermal potential


Land use:

arable land: 6.45%
permanent crops: 22.58%
other: 70.97% (2005)


Irrigated land:

30 sq km (2003)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.01
per capita: 81 cu m/yr (1997)


Natural hazards:

hurricanes and volcanic activity


Environment - current issues:

deforestation; soil erosion, particularly in the northern region


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

the twin Pitons (Gros Piton and Petit Piton), striking cone-shaped
peaks south of Soufriere, are one of the scenic natural highlights
of the Caribbean


People
Saint Lucia



Population:

159,585 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 25.2% (male 20,614/female 19,559)
15-64 years: 65.8% (male 50,897/female 54,140)
65 years and over: 9% (male 6,481/female 7,894) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 29.2 years
male: 28.2 years
female: 30.2 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.436% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

15.4 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

6.71 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-4.33 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.07 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.94 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.82 male(s)/female
total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 13.8 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 12.75 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 14.9 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 76.25 years
male: 73.59 years
female: 79.05 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.86 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Saint Lucian(s)
adjective: Saint Lucian


Ethnic groups:

black 82.5%, mixed 11.9%, East Indian 2.4%, other or unspecified
3.1% (2001 census)


Religions:

Roman Catholic 67.5%, Seventh Day Adventist 8.5%, Pentecostal 5.7%,
Rastafarian 2.1%, Anglican 2%, Evangelical 2%, other Christian 5.1%,
other 1.1%, unspecified 1.5%, none 4.5% (2001 census)


Languages:

English (official), French patois


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over has ever attended school
total population: 90.1%
male: 89.5%
female: 90.6% (2001 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 14 years
male: 13 years
female: 14 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

6.6% of GDP (2006)


Government
Saint Lucia



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Saint Lucia


Government type:

parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Castries
geographic coordinates: 14 01 N, 61 00 W
time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

11 quarters; Anse-la-Raye, Castries, Choiseul, Dauphin, Dennery,
Gros-Islet, Laborie, Micoud, Praslin, Soufriere, Vieux-Fort


Independence:

22 February 1979 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 22 February (1979)


Constitution:

22 February 1979


Legal system:

based on English common law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by Governor General Dame Pearlette LOUISY (since
September 1997)
head of government: Prime Minister Stephenson KING (since 9
September 2007); note - Sir John COMPTON died in office Friday, 7
September 2007
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the advice of
the prime minister
elections: the monarch is hereditary; the governor general is
appointed by the monarch; following legislative elections, the
leader of the majority party or the leader of a majority coalition
is usually appointed prime minister by the governor general; deputy
prime minister appointed by the governor general


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (11 seats; six members
appointed on the advice of the prime minister, three on the advice
of the leader of the opposition, and two after consultation with
religious, economic, and social groups) and the House of Assembly
(17 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year
terms)
elections: House of Assembly - last held 11 December 2006 (next to
be held in December 2011)
election results: House of Assembly - percent of vote by party - UWP
50%, SLP 46.9%, other 3.1%; seats by party - UWP 11, SLP 6


Judicial branch:

Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court (jurisdiction extends to Anguilla,
Antigua and Barbuda, the British Virgin Islands, Dominica, Grenada,
Montserrat, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, and Saint Vincent
and the Grenadines)


Political parties and leaders:

National Alliance or NA [George ODLUM]; Saint Lucia Freedom Party or
SFP [Martinus FRANCOIS]; Saint Lucia Labor Party or SLP [Kenneth
ANTHONY]; Sou Tout Apwe Fete Fini or STAFF [Christopher HUNTE];
United Workers Party or UWP [Stephenson KING]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

ACP, C, Caricom, CDB, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt (signatory), ICRM,
IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, ISO, ITU, ITUC,
MIGA, NAM, OAS, OECS, OIF, OPANAL, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Michael LOUIS
chancery: 3216 New Mexico Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20016
telephone: [1] (202) 364-6792 through 6795
FAX: [1] (202) 364-6723
consulate(s) general: Miami, New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

the US does not have an embassy in Saint Lucia; the US Ambassador to
Barbados is accredited to Saint Lucia


Flag description:

blue, with a gold isosceles triangle below a black arrowhead; the
upper edges of the arrowhead have a white border


Economy
Saint Lucia



Economy - overview:

The island nation has been able to attract foreign business and
investment, especially in its offshore banking and tourism
industries, with a surge in foreign direct investment in 2006,
attributed to the construction of several tourism projects. Tourism
is the main source of foreign exchange, with almost 900,000 arrivals
in 2007. The manufacturing sector is the most diverse in the Eastern
Caribbean area, and the government is trying to revitalize the
banana industry. Saint Lucia is vulnerable to a variety of external
shocks including declines in European Union banana preferences,
volatile tourism receipts, natural disasters, and dependence on
foreign oil. High debt servicing obligations constrain the KING
administration's ability to respond to adverse external shocks.
Economic fundamentals remain solid, even though unemployment needs
to be reduced.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$1.794 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$958 million (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

3.2% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$10,700 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 5%
industry: 15%
services: 80% (2005 est.)


Labor force:

43,800 (2001 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 21.7%
industry: 24.7%
services: 53.6% (2002 est.)


Unemployment rate:

20% (2003 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $141.2 million
expenditures: $146.7 million (2000 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 April - 31 March


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

1.9% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

6.5% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

10.12% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$264.7 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$720.9 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$1.217 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

bananas, coconuts, vegetables, citrus, root crops, cocoa


Industries:

clothing, assembly of electronic components, beverages, corrugated
cardboard boxes, tourism; lime processing, coconut processing


Industrial production growth rate:

-8.9% (1997 est.)


Electricity - production:

325 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

289.2 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

2,780 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

2,631 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$199 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$288 million (2006)


Exports - commodities:

bananas 41%, clothing, cocoa, vegetables, fruits, coconut oil


Exports - partners:

US 24.5%, France 23.2%, UK 19.3%, Antigua and Barbuda 5%, Dominica
4.9%, Barbados 4.4%, Trinidad and Tobago 4.1% (2007)


Imports:

$791 million (2006)


Imports - commodities:

food 23%, manufactured goods 21%, machinery and transportation
equipment 19%, chemicals, fuels


Imports - partners:

Brazil 63.6%, US 10.2%, Trinidad and Tobago 8.2% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$11.06 million (2005)


Debt - external:

$257 million (2004)


Currency (code):

East Caribbean dollar (XCD)


Currency code:

XCD


Exchange rates:

East Caribbean dollars (XCD) per US dollar - 2.7 (2007), 2.7 (2006),
2.7 (2005), 2.7 (2004), 2.7 (2003)


Communications
Saint Lucia



Telephones - main lines in use:

51,100 (2002)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

105,700 (2005)


Telephone system:

general assessment: adequate system
domestic: system is automatically switched
international: country code - 1-758; the East Caribbean Fiber Optic
System (ECFS) and Southern Caribbean fiber optic system (SCF)
submarine cables, along with Intelsat from Martinique, carry calls
internationally; direct microwave radio relay link with Martinique
and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines; tropospheric scatter to
Barbados


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 2, FM 7, shortwave 0 (2003)


Radios:

111,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

2 (1 commercial broadcast station and 1 community antenna television
or CATV channel) (2003)


Televisions:

32,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.lc


Internet hosts:

17 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

15 (2000)


Internet users:

110,000 (2007)


Transportation
Saint Lucia



Airports:

2 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 1,210 km (2002)


Ports and terminals:

Castries, Cul-de-Sac, Vieux-Fort


Military
Saint Lucia



Military branches:

no regular military forces; Royal Saint Lucia Police Force (includes
Special Service Unit, Coast Guard) (2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 48,358 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 38,660 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 1,591
female: 1,504 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

NA


Transnational Issues
Saint Lucia



Disputes - international:

joins other Caribbean states to counter Venezuela's claim that Aves
Island sustains human habitation, a criterion under UNCLOS, which
permits Venezuela to extend its EEZ/continental shelf over a large
portion of the eastern Caribbean Sea


Illicit drugs:

transit point for South American drugs destined for the US and Europe



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Saint Martin

Introduction
Saint Martin



Background:

Although sighted by Christopher COLUMBUS in 1493 and claimed for
Spain, it was the Dutch who occupied the island in 1631 and set
about exploiting its salt deposits. The Spanish retook the island in
1633, but continued to be harassed by the Dutch. The Spanish finally
relinquished St. Martin to the French and Dutch, who divided it
amongst themselves in 1648. The cultivation of sugar cane introduced
slavery to the island in the late 18th century; the practice was not
abolished until 1848. The island became a free port in 1939; the
tourism industry was dramatically expanded during the 1970s and
1980s. In 2003, the populace of St. Martin voted to secede from
Guadeloupe and in 2007, the northern portion of the island became a
French overseas collectivity.


Geography
Saint Martin



Location:

island 300 km southeast of Puerto Rico


Geographic coordinates:

18 05 N, 63 57 W


Map references:

Central America and the Caribbean


Area:

total: 54.4 sq km
land: 54.4 sq km
water: NEGL


Area - comparative:

more than one-third the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

total: 15 km
border countries: Netherlands Antilles (Sint Maarten) 15 km


Coastline:

58.9 km (for entire island)


Climate:

temperature averages 80-85 degrees all year long; low humidity,
gentle trade winds, brief, intense rain showers; July-Novemeber is
the hurricane season


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Caribbean Ocean 0 m
highest point: Pic du Paradis 424 m


Natural resources:

salt


Environment - current issues:

fresh water supply is dependent on desalinization of sea water


Geography - note:

the island of Saint Martin is the smallest landmass in the world
shared by two independent states, the French territory of Saint
Martin and the Dutch territory of Sint Maarten


People
Saint Martin



Population:

29,376 (July 2008 est.)


Ethnic groups:

creole (mulatto), black, Guadeloupe Mestizo (French-East Asia),
white, East Indian


Religions:

Roman Catholic, Jehovah's Witness, Protestant, Hindu


Languages:

French (official language), English, Dutch, French Patois, Spanish,
Papiamento (dialect of Netherlands Antilles)


Government
Saint Martin



Country name:

conventional long form: Overseas Collectivity of Saint Martin
conventional short form: Saint Martin
local long form: Collectivity d'outre mer de Saint-Martin
local short form: Saint-Martin


Dependency status:

overseas collectivity of France


Capital:

name: Marigot
geographical coordinates: 18 04 N, 63 05 W
time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour behind Washington, DC, during
Standard Time)
daylight savings: +1 hour


Independence:

none (overseas collectivity of France)


National holiday:

Bastille Day, 14 July (1789); note - local holiday is Schoalcher Day
(Slavery Abolition Day) 12 July (1848)


Constitution:

4 October 1958 (French Constitution)


Legal system:

the laws of France, where applicable, apply


Suffrage:

18 years of age, universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Nicolas SARKOZY (since 16 May 2007),
represented by Prefect Dominique LACROIX (since 21 March 2007)
head of government: President of the Territorial Council Frantz
GUMBS (since 7 August 2008)
cabinet: Executive Council; note - there is also an advisory
economic, social, and cultural council
election: French president elected by popular vote to a five-year
term; prefect appointed by the French president on the advice of the
French Ministry of Interior; president of the Territorial Council is
elected by the members of the Council for a five-year term
election results: Frantz GUMBS elected president by the Territorial
Council on 7 August 2008


Legislative branch:

unicameral Territorial Council (23 seats; members are elected by
popular vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held 1 and 8 July 2007 (next to be held July 2012)
election results: percent of seats by party - UPP 49%, RRR 42.2%,
Reussir Saint-Martin 8.9%; seats by party - UPP 16, RRR 6, Reussir
Saint-Martin 1


Political parties and leaders:

Union Pour le Progres or UPP [Louis-Constant FLEMING]; Rassemblement
Responsabilite Reussite or RRR [Alain RICHARDSON]; Reussir
Saint-Martin [Jean-Luc HAMLET]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

UPU, WFTU


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (overseas collectivity of France)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (overseas collectivity of France)


Flag description:

the flag of France is used


Economy
Saint Martin



Economy - overview:

The economy of Saint Martin centers around tourism with 85% of the
labor force engaged in this sector. Over one million visitors come
to the island each year with most arriving through the Princess
Juliana International Airport in Sint Maarten. No significant
agriculture and limited local fishing means that almost all food
must be imported. Energy resources and manufactured goods are also
imported, primarily from Mexico and the United States. Saint Martin
is reported to have the highest per capita income in the Caribbean.


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 1%
industry: 15%
services: 84% (2000)


Labor force - by occupation:

85% directly or indirectly employed in tourist industry


Industries:

tourism, light industry and manufacturing, heavy industry


Imports - commodities:

crude petroleum, food, manufactured items


Imports - partners:

US, Mexico (2006)


Currency (code):

euro (EUR); note - US dollar (USD) widely used


Exchange rates:

euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006), 0.8041
(2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)


Communications
Saint Martin



Telephone system:

general assessment: fully integrated access
domestic: direct dial capability with both fixed and wireless systems
international: country code - 590; undersea fiber-optic cable
provides voice and data connectivity to Puerto Rico and Guadeloupe


Radio broadcast stations:

FM 3 (2007)


Internet country code:

.mf; note - .gp, the ccTLD for Guadeloupe, and .fr, the ccTLD for
France, might also be encountered


Transportation
Saint Martin



Airports:

1


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 1


Transportation - note:

nearest airport for international flights is Princess Juliana
International Airport (SXM) located in Sint Maarten


Military
Saint Martin



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 186
female: 162 (2008 est.)


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of France




This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Saint Pierre and Miquelon

Introduction
Saint Pierre and Miquelon



Background:

First settled by the French in the early 17th century, the islands
represent the sole remaining vestige of France's once vast North
American possessions.


Geography
Saint Pierre and Miquelon



Location:

Northern North America, islands in the North Atlantic Ocean, south
of Newfoundland (Canada)


Geographic coordinates:

46 50 N, 56 20 W


Map references:

North America


Area:

total: 242 sq km
land: 242 sq km
water: 0 sq km
note: includes eight small islands in the Saint Pierre and the
Miquelon groups


Area - comparative:

1.5 times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

120 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

cold and wet, with much mist and fog; spring and autumn are windy


Terrain:

mostly barren rock


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Morne de la Grande Montagne 240 m


Natural resources:

fish, deepwater ports


Land use:

arable land: 12.5%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 87.5% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

persistent fog throughout the year can be a maritime hazard


Environment - current issues:

recent test drilling for oil in waters around Saint Pierre and
Miquelon may bring future development that would impact the
environment


Geography - note:

vegetation scanty


People
Saint Pierre and Miquelon



Population:

7,044 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 22.4% (male 806/female 772)
15-64 years: 66.3% (male 2,370/female 2,301)
65 years and over: 11.3% (male 366/female 429) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 34.9 years
male: 34.3 years
female: 35.3 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.114% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

12.92 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

6.81 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-4.97 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.07 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.85 male(s)/female
total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 7.04 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 8.06 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 5.96 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 78.91 years
male: 76.55 years
female: 81.4 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.98 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Frenchman(men), Frenchwoman(women)
adjective: French


Ethnic groups:

Basques and Bretons (French fishermen)


Religions:

Roman Catholic 99%, other 1%


Languages:

French (official)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99%
male: 99%
female: 99% (1982 est.)


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Saint Pierre and Miquelon



Country name:

conventional long form: Territorial Collectivity of Saint Pierre and
Miquelon
conventional short form: Saint Pierre and Miquelon
local long form: Departement de Saint-Pierre et Miquelon
local short form: Saint-Pierre et Miquelon


Dependency status:

self-governing territorial overseas collectivity of France


Government type:

NA


Capital:

name: Saint-Pierre
geographic coordinates: 46 46 N, 56 11 W
time difference: UTC-3 (2 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins second Sunday in March; ends
first Sunday in November


Administrative divisions:

none (territorial overseas collectivity of France); note - there are
no first-order administrative divisions as defined by the US
Government, but there are two communes - Saint Pierre, Miquelon at
the second order


Independence:

none (territorial collectivity of France; has been under French
control since 1763)


National holiday:

Bastille Day, 14 July (1789)


Constitution:

4 October 1958 (French Constitution)


Legal system:

the laws of France, where applicable, apply


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Nicolas SARKOZY (since 16 May 2007);
represented by Prefect Jean-Pierre BERCOT (since 28 July 2008)
head of government: President of the Territorial Council Stephane
ARTANO (since 21 February 2007)
cabinet: NA
elections: French president elected by popular vote for a five-year
term; election last held 6 May 2007 (next to be held in 2012);
prefect appointed by the French president on the advice of the
French Ministry of Interior; president of the Territorial Council is
elected by the members of the council


Legislative branch:

unicameral Territorial Council or Conseil Territorial (19 seats, 15
from Saint Pierre and four from Miquelon; members are elected by
popular vote to serve six-year terms)
elections: elections last held 19 and 26 in March 2006 (next to be
held in March 2012)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - AD
16, Cap sur l'Avenir 2, SPM 2000/AM 1
note: Saint Pierre and Miquelon elect one seat to the French Senate;
elections last held 26 September 2004 (next to be held in September
2013); results - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - UMP
1; Saint Pierre and Miquelon also elects one seat to the French
National Assembly; elections last held, first round - 10 June 2007,
second round - 17 June 2007 (next to be held in 2012); results -
percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - Left Radical Party 1


Judicial branch:

Superior Tribunal of Appeals or Tribunal Superieur d'Appel


Political parties and leaders:

Archipelago Tomorrow or AD affiliated with UDF/RPR list; Cap sur
l'Avenir affiliated with PRG; Left Radical Party or PRG;
Rassemblement pour la Republique or RPR (now UMP); Saint Pierre and
Miquelon 2000/Avenir Miquelon or SPM 2000/AM; Socialist Party or PS;
Union pour la Democratie Francaise or UDF


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

UPU, WFTU


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (territorial overseas collectivity of France)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (territorial overseas collectivity of France)


Flag description:

a yellow sailing ship facing the hoist side rides on a dark blue
background with yellow wavy lines under the ship; on the hoist side,
a vertical band is divided into three parts: the top part (called
ikkurina) is red with a green diagonal cross extending to the
corners overlaid by a white cross dividing the rectangle into four
sections; the middle part has a white background with an ermine
pattern; the third part has a red background with two stylized
yellow lions outlined in black, one above the other; these three
heraldic arms represent settlement by colonists from the Basque
Country (top), Brittany, and Normandy; the flag of France is used
for official occasions


Economy
Saint Pierre and Miquelon



Economy - overview:

The inhabitants have traditionally earned their livelihood by
fishing and by servicing fishing fleets operating off the coast of
Newfoundland. The economy has been declining, however, because of
disputes with Canada over fishing quotas and a steady decline in the
number of ships stopping at Saint Pierre. In 1992, an arbitration
panel awarded the islands an exclusive economic zone of 12,348 sq km
to settle a longstanding territorial dispute with Canada, although
it represents only 25% of what France had sought. France heavily
subsidizes the islands to the great betterment of living standards.
The government hopes an expansion of tourism will boost economic
prospects. Fish farming, crab fishing, and agriculture are being
developed to diversify the local economy. Recent test drilling for
oil may pave the way for development of the energy sector.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$48.3 million
note: supplemented by annual payments from France of about $60
million (2003 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$NA


GDP - real growth rate:

NA%


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$7,000 (2001 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: NA%
industry: NA%
services: NA%


Labor force:

3,450 (2005)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 18%
industry: 41%
services: 41% (1996 est.)


Unemployment rate:

10.3% (1999)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $70 million
expenditures: $60 million (1996 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

8.1% (2005)


Agriculture - products:

vegetables; poultry, cattle, sheep, pigs; fish


Industries:

fish processing and supply base for fishing fleets; tourism


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

53 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

49.29 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

560 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

556.8 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Exports:

$5.5 million f.o.b. (2005 est.)


Exports - commodities:

fish and fish products, soybeans, animal feed, mollusks and
crustaceans, fox and mink pelts


Exports - partners:

Spain 33.6%, Belgium 21.8%, India 18.3%, France 9.4%, US 7.5% (2006)


Imports:

$68.2 million f.o.b. (2005 est.)


Imports - commodities:

meat, clothing, fuel, electrical equipment, machinery, building
materials


Imports - partners:

France 51.3%, Canada 31.8%, Belgium 4.1% (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

approximately $60 million in annual grants from France


Debt - external:

$NA


Currency (code):

euro (EUR)


Currency code:

EUR


Exchange rates:

euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006), 0.8041
(2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)


Communications
Saint Pierre and Miquelon



Telephones - main lines in use:

4,800 (2002)


Telephone system:

general assessment: adequate
domestic: NA
international: country code - 508; radiotelephone communication with
most countries in the world; satellite earth station - 1 in French
domestic satellite system


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 4, shortwave 0 (1998)


Radios:

4,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

0 (2 repeaters rebroadcast programs from France, Canada, and the US)
(1997)


Televisions:

4,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.pm


Internet hosts:

0 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

NA


Transportation
Saint Pierre and Miquelon



Airports:

2 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 117 km
paved: 80 km
unpaved: 37 km (2000)


Ports and terminals:

Saint-Pierre


Military
Saint Pierre and Miquelon



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 61
female: 58 (2008 est.)


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of France


Transnational Issues
Saint Pierre and Miquelon



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Saint Vincent and the Grenadines

Introduction
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines



Background:

Resistance by native Caribs prevented colonization on St. Vincent
until 1719. Disputed between France and the United Kingdom for most
of the 18th century, the island was ceded to the latter in 1783.
Between 1960 and 1962, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines was a
separate administrative unit of the Federation of the West Indies.
Autonomy was granted in 1969 and independence in 1979.


Geography
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines



Location:

Caribbean, islands between the Caribbean Sea and North Atlantic
Ocean, north of Trinidad and Tobago


Geographic coordinates:

13 15 N, 61 12 W


Map references:

Central America and the Caribbean


Area:

total: 389 sq km (Saint Vincent 344 sq km)
land: 389 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

twice the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

84 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; little seasonal temperature variation; rainy season (May
to November)


Terrain:

volcanic, mountainous


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
highest point: La Soufriere 1,234 m


Natural resources:

hydropower, cropland


Land use:

arable land: 17.95%
permanent crops: 17.95%
other: 64.1% (2005)


Irrigated land:

10 sq km (2003)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.01
per capita: 83 cu m/yr (1995)


Natural hazards:

hurricanes; Soufriere volcano on the island of Saint Vincent is a
constant threat


Environment - current issues:

pollution of coastal waters and shorelines from discharges by
pleasure yachts and other effluents; in some areas, pollution is
severe enough to make swimming prohibitive


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

the administration of the islands of the Grenadines group is divided
between Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and Grenada; Saint Vincent
and the Grenadines is comprised of 32 islands and cays


People
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines



Population:

118,432 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 25.1% (male 15,161/female 14,600)
15-64 years: 68.4% (male 41,855/female 39,105)
65 years and over: 6.5% (male 3,402/female 4,309) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 28 years
male: 27.8 years
female: 28.1 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.231% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

15.82 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

5.96 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-7.56 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.07 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.79 male(s)/female
total population: 1.04 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 13.62 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 14.83 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 12.36 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 74.34 years
male: 72.42 years
female: 76.31 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.79 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Saint Vincentian(s) or Vincentian(s)
adjective: Saint Vincentian or Vincentian


Ethnic groups:

black 66%, mixed 19%, East Indian 6%, European 4%, Carib Amerindian
2%, other 3%


Religions:

Anglican 47%, Methodist 28%, Roman Catholic 13%, other (includes
Hindu, Seventh-Day Adventist, other Protestant) 12%


Languages:

English, French patois


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over has ever attended school
total population: 96%
male: 96%
female: 96% (1970 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 12 years
male: 12 years
female: 12 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

8.1% of GDP (2005)


Government
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Saint Vincent and the Grenadines


Government type:

parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Kingstown
geographic coordinates: 13 09 N, 61 14 W
time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

6 parishes; Charlotte, Grenadines, Saint Andrew, Saint David, Saint
George, Saint Patrick


Independence:

27 October 1979 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 27 October (1979)


Constitution:

27 October 1979


Legal system:

based on English common law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by Governor General Sir Fredrick Nathaniel BALLANTYNE
(since 2 September 2002)
head of government: Prime Minister Ralph E. GONSALVES (since 29
March 2001)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the advice of
the prime minister
elections: the monarch is hereditary; the governor general is
appointed by the monarch; following legislative elections, the
leader of the majority party is usually appointed prime minister by
the governor general; deputy prime minister appointed by the
governor general on the advice of the prime minister


Legislative branch:

unicameral House of Assembly (21 seats, 15 elected representatives
and six appointed senators; representatives are elected by popular
vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held 7 December 2005 (next to be held in 2010)
election results: percent of vote by party - ULP 55.3%, NDP 44.7%;
seats by party - ULP 12, NDP 3


Judicial branch:

Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court (based on Saint Lucia; one judge of
the Supreme Court resides in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines)


Political parties and leaders:

New Democratic Party or NDP [Arnhim EUSTACE]; Unity Labor Party or
ULP [Ralph GONSALVES] (formed by the coalition of Saint Vincent
Labor Party or SVLP and the Movement for National Unity or MNU)


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

ACP, C, Caricom, CDB, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD,
IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, ISO (subscriber), ITU, ITUC,
MIGA, NAM, OAS, OECS, OPANAL, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU,
WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador La Celia A. PRINCE
chancery: 3216 New Mexico Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20016
telephone: [1] (202) 364-6730
FAX: [1] (202) 364-6736
consulate(s) general: New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

the US does not have an embassy in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines;
the US Ambassador to Barbados is accredited to Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines


Flag description:

three vertical bands of blue (hoist side), gold (double width), and
green; the gold band bears three green diamonds arranged in a V
pattern


Economy
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines



Economy - overview:

Economic growth slowed slightly in 2007 after reaching a 10 year
high of nearly 7% in 2006, but is expected to remain robust, hinging
upon seasonal variations in the agricultural and tourism sectors and
a recent increase in construction activity. This lower-middle-income
country is vulnerable to natural disasters - tropical storms wiped
out substantial portions of crops in 1994, 1995, and 2002. In 2007,
the islands had more than 200,000 tourist arrivals, mostly to the
Grenadines. Saint Vincent is home to a small offshore banking sector
and has moved to adopt international regulatory standards. The
government's ability to invest in social programs and respond to
external shocks is constrained by its high debt burden - 25 percent
of current revenues are directed towards debt servicing.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$1.042 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$559 million (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6.6% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$9,800 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 10%
industry: 26%
services: 64% (2001 est.)


Labor force:

41,680 (1991 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 26%
industry: 17%
services: 57% (1980 est.)


Unemployment rate:

15% (2001 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $94.6 million
expenditures: $85.8 million (2000 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

6.1% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

6.5% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

9.61% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$155.5 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$280.2 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$387.8 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

bananas, coconuts, sweet potatoes, spices; small numbers of cattle,
sheep, pigs, goats; fish


Industries:

food processing, cement, furniture, clothing, starch


Industrial production growth rate:

-0.9% (1997 est.)


Electricity - production:

129 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

120 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 69.3%
hydro: 30.7%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

1,570 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

1,460 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$149 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$193 million (2006)


Exports - commodities:

bananas, eddoes and dasheen (taro), arrowroot starch; tennis racquets


Exports - partners:

Greece 28.4%, Italy 14.6%, France 12%, UK 7.5%, Trinidad and Tobago
4.8%, Spain 4.6%, Germany 4.3%, Saint Lucia 4.2% (2007)


Imports:

$578 million (2006)


Imports - commodities:

foodstuffs, machinery and equipment, chemicals and fertilizers,
minerals and fuels


Imports - partners:

Singapore 15.9%, Trinidad and Tobago 14.9%, Italy 13.3%, US 13%,
China 5% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$4.89 million (1995); note - EU $34.5 million (2005)


Debt - external:

$223 million (2004)


Currency (code):

East Caribbean dollar (XCD)


Currency code:

XCD


Exchange rates:

East Caribbean dollars (XCD) per US dollar - 2.7 (2007), 2.7 (2006),
2.7 (2005), 2.7 (2004), 2.7 (2003)


Communications
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines



Telephones - main lines in use:

22,800 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

104,000 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: adequate system
domestic: islandwide, fully automatic telephone system; VHF/UHF
radiotelephone from Saint Vincent to the other islands of the
Grenadines; mobile-cellular teledensity roughly 100 telephones per
100 persons
international: country code - 1-784; the East Caribbean Fiber Optic
System (ECFS) and Southern Caribbean fiber optic system (SCF)
submarine cables carry international calls; connectivity also
provided by VHF/UHF radiotelephone from Saint Vincent to Barbados;
SHF radiotelephone to Grenada and Saint Lucia; access to Intelsat
earth station in Martinique through Saint Lucia


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 6, shortwave 0 (2004)


Radios:

77,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (plus 3 repeaters) (2004)


Televisions:

18,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.vc


Internet hosts:

124 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

15 (2000)


Internet users:

57,000 (2007)


Transportation
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines



Airports:

6 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 5
914 to 1,523 m: 4
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 1
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 829 km
paved: 580 km
unpaved: 249 km (2003)


Merchant marine:

total: 525
by type: barge carrier 1, bulk carrier 83, cargo 315, carrier 20,
chemical tanker 2, liquefied gas 6, passenger 3, passenger/cargo 17,
petroleum tanker 17, refrigerated cargo 20, roll on/roll off 18,
specialized tanker 2, container 21
foreign-owned: 476 (Austria 2, Barbados 1, Belgium 8, Bulgaria 15,
Canada 1, China 94, Croatia 7, Cyprus 1, Czech Republic 1, Denmark
16, Egypt 3, Estonia 16, France 6, Germany 3, Gibraltar 1, Greece
71, Guyana 2, Hong Kong 6, Iceland 7, India 7, Iran 1, Israel 2,
Italy 17, Japan 3, Kenya 2, Latvia 17, Lebanon 6, Lithuania 9,
Monaco 5, Montenegro 1, Namibia 1, Netherlands 3, Norway 13, Poland
1, Puerto Rico 1, Romania 1, Russia 21, Singapore 4, Slovenia 5,
South Africa 1, Sweden 2, Switzerland 6, Syria 13, Turkey 20,
Ukraine 11, UAE 9, UK 13, UK 1, US 18, Venezuela 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Kingstown


Military
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines



Military branches:

no regular military forces; Royal Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Police Force, Coast Guard (2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 34,373 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 28,518 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 1,224
female: 1,169 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

NA


Transnational Issues
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines



Disputes - international:

joins other Caribbean states to counter Venezuela's claim that Aves
Island sustains human habitation, a criterion under UNCLOS, which
permits Venezuela to extend its EEZ/continental shelf over a large
portion of the eastern Caribbean Sea


Illicit drugs:

transshipment point for South American drugs destined for the US and
Europe; small-scale cannabis cultivation



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Samoa

Introduction
Samoa



Background:

New Zealand occupied the German protectorate of Western Samoa at the
outbreak of World War I in 1914. It continued to administer the
islands as a mandate and then as a trust territory until 1962, when
the islands became the first Polynesian nation to reestablish
independence in the 20th century. The country dropped the "Western"
from its name in 1997.


Geography
Samoa



Location:

Oceania, group of islands in the South Pacific Ocean, about half way
between Hawaii and New Zealand


Geographic coordinates:

13 35 S, 172 20 W


Map references:

Oceania


Area:

total: 2,944 sq km
land: 2,934 sq km
water: 10 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Rhode Island


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

403 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; rainy season (November to April), dry season (May to
October)


Terrain:

two main islands (Savaii, Upolu) and several smaller islands and
uninhabited islets; narrow coastal plain with volcanic, rocky,
rugged mountains in interior


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: Mauga Silisili (Savaii) 1,857 m


Natural resources:

hardwood forests, fish, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 21.13%
permanent crops: 24.3%
other: 54.57% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

occasional typhoons; active volcanism


Environment - current issues:

soil erosion, deforestation, invasive species, overfishing


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone
Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

occupies an almost central position within Polynesia


People
Samoa



Population:

217,083
note: prior estimates used official net migration data by sex, but a
highly unusual pattern for 1993 lead to a significant imbalance in
the sex ratios (more men and fewer women) and a seeming reduction in
the female population; the revised total was calculated using a 1993
number that was an average of the 1992 and 1994 migration figures
(July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 37.9% (male 41,834/female 40,343)
15-64 years: 56.5% (male 64,402/female 58,257)
65 years and over: 5.6% (male 5,481/female 6,766) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 20.6 years
male: 20.8 years
female: 20.4 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.322% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

28.2 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

5.84 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-9.14 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.1 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.81 male(s)/female
total population: 1.06 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 25.04 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 29.56 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 20.29 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 71.58 years
male: 68.76 years
female: 74.55 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

4.18 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Samoan(s)
adjective: Samoan


Ethnic groups:

Samoan 92.6%, Euronesians (persons of European and Polynesian blood)
7%, Europeans 0.4% (2001 census)


Religions:

Congregationalist 34.8%, Roman Catholic 19.6%, Methodist 15%,
Latter-Day Saints 12.7%, Assembly of God 6.6%, Seventh-Day Adventist
3.5%, Worship Centre 1.3%, other Christian 4.5%, other 1.9%,
unspecified 0.1% (2001 census)


Languages:

Samoan (Polynesian), English


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99.7%
male: 99.6%
female: 99.7% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 12 years
male: 12 years
female: 12 years (2001)


Education expenditures:

4.3% of GDP (2002)


Government
Samoa



Country name:

conventional long form: Independent State of Samoa
conventional short form: Samoa
local long form: Malo Sa'oloto Tuto'atasi o Samoa
local short form: Samoa
former: Western Samoa


Government type:

parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Apia
geographic coordinates: 13 50 S, 171 44 W
time difference: UTC-11 (6 hours behind Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

11 districts; A'ana, Aiga-i-le-Tai, Atua, Fa'asaleleaga,
Gaga'emauga, Gagaifomauga, Palauli, Satupa'itea, Tuamasaga,
Va'a-o-Fonoti, Vaisigano


Independence:

1 January 1962 (from New Zealand-administered UN trusteeship)


National holiday:

Independence Day Celebration, 1 June (1962); note - 1 January 1962
is the date of independence from the New Zealand-administered UN
trusteeship; it is observed in June


Constitution:

1 January 1962


Legal system:

based on English common law and local customs; judicial review of
legislative acts with respect to fundamental rights of the citizen;
has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

21 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: TUIATUA Tupua Tamasese Efi (since 20 June 2007)
head of government: Prime Minister Sailele Malielegaoi TUILA'EPA
(since 1998); Deputy Prime Minister MISA Telefoni (since 2001)
cabinet: Cabinet consists of 12 members appointed by the chief of
state on the prime minister's advice
elections: chief of state is elected by the Legislative Assembly to
serve a five-year term (no term limits); election last held 15 June
2007 (next to be held in 2012); following legislative elections, the
leader of the majority party is usually appointed prime minister by
the chief of state with the approval of the Legislative Assembly
election results: TUIATUA Tupua Tamasese Efi unanimously elected by
the Legislative Assembly


Legislative branch:

unicameral Legislative Assembly or Fono (49 seats, 47 elected by
voters affiliated with traditional village-based electoral
districts, 2 elected by independent, mostly non-Samoan or
part-Samoan, voters who cannot, (or choose not to) establish a
village affiliation; only chiefs (matai) may stand for election to
the Fono from the 47 village-based electorates; members serve
five-year terms)
elections: election last held 31 March 2006 (next election to be
held not later than March 2011)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
HRPP 35, SDUP 10, independents 4


Judicial branch:

Court of Appeal; Supreme Court; District Court; Land and Titles Court


Political parties and leaders:

Human Rights Protection Party or HRPP [Sailele Malielegaoi
TUILA'EPA]; Samoa Christian Party or TCP [Tuala Tiresa MALIETOA];
Samoa Democratic United Party or SDUP [LE MAMEA Ropati]; Samoa Party
or SP [Su'a Rimoni Ah CHONG]; Samoa Progressive Political Party or
SPPP [Toeolesulusulu SIUEVA]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

ACP, ADB, C, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IOC, IPU, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, OPCW, PIF,
Sparteca, SPC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU, WCO, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
(observer)


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Aliioaiga Feturi ELISAIA
chancery: 800 Second Avenue, Suite 400D, New York, NY 10017
telephone: [1] (212) 599-6196, 6197
FAX: [1] (212) 599-0797


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: none; US Ambassador to New Zealand is accredited
to Samoa
embassy: Accident Corporation Building, 5th Floor, Matafele, Apia
mailing address: P. O. Box 3430, Matafele, Apia
telephone: [685] 21436/21631/21452/22696
FAX: [685] 22030


Flag description:

red with a blue rectangle in the upper hoist-side quadrant bearing
five white five-pointed stars representing the Southern Cross
constellation


Economy
Samoa



Economy - overview:

The economy of Samoa has traditionally been dependent on development
aid, family remittances from overseas, agriculture, and fishing. The
country is vulnerable to devastating storms. Agriculture employs
two-thirds of the labor force and furnishes 90% of exports,
featuring coconut cream, coconut oil, and copra. The fish catch
declined during the El Nino of 2002-03 but returned to normal by
mid-2005. The manufacturing sector mainly processes agricultural
products. One factory in the Foreign Trade Zone employs 3,000 people
to make automobile electrical harnesses for an assembly plant in
Australia. Tourism is an expanding sector, accounting for 25% of
GDP; 116,000 tourists visited the islands in 2006. The Samoan
Government has called for deregulation of the financial sector,
encouragement of investment, and continued fiscal discipline, while
at the same time protecting the environment. Observers point to the
flexibility of the labor market as a basic strength for future
economic advances. Foreign reserves are in a relatively healthy
state, the external debt is stable, and inflation is low.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$1.029 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$397 million (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$5,400 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 11.4%
industry: 58.4%
services: 30.2% (2004 est.)


Labor force:

90,000 (2000 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: NA%
industry: NA%
services: NA%


Unemployment rate:

NA%


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $171.3 million
expenditures: $78.1 million (FY04/05 est.)


Fiscal year:

June 1 - May 31


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

6% (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

12.65% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$69.97 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$168.7 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$215.1 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

coconuts, bananas, taro, yams, coffee, cocoa


Industries:

food processing, building materials, auto parts


Industrial production growth rate:

2.8% (2000)


Electricity - production:

109 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

101.4 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 58%
hydro: 42%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

1,130 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

1,128 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$24 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$131 million f.o.b. (2006)


Exports - commodities:

fish, coconut oil and cream, copra, taro, automotive parts,
garments, beer


Exports - partners:

Australia 48.1%, American Samoa 30%, Taiwan 8% (2007)


Imports:

$324 million f.o.b. (2006)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, industrial supplies, foodstuffs


Imports - partners:

NZ 22.1%, Fiji 17.2%, Singapore 16.1%, Australia 7.9%, Japan 6.8%,
Indonesia 5.4%, US 5.3% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$43.95 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$70.15 million (FY03/04)


Debt - external:

$177 million (2004)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

tala (SAT)


Currency code:

SAT (former WST code is still in wide use)


Exchange rates:

tala (SAT) per US dollar - NA (2007), 2.7594 (2006), 2.7103 (2005),
2.7807 (2004), 2.9732 (2003)


Communications
Samoa



Telephones - main lines in use:

19,500 (2005)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

86,000 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: adequate
domestic: combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity
roughly 50 telephones per 100 persons
international: country code - 685; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 2, FM 5, shortwave 0 (2004)


Radios:

174,849 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

2 (2002)


Televisions:

8,634 (1999)


Internet country code:

.ws


Internet hosts:

11,307 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

2 (2000)


Internet users:

8,000 (2006)


Transportation
Samoa



Airports:

4 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 3
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
under 914 m: 2 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 1
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 2,337 km
paved: 332 km
unpaved: 2,005 km (2001)


Merchant marine:

total: 1
by type: cargo 1
foreign-owned: 1 (Cyprus 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Apia


Military
Samoa



Military branches:

no regular military forces; Samoa Police Force (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 53,417 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 42,359 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 2,571
female: 2,454 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

NA


Military - note:

Samoa has no formal defense structure or regular armed forces;
informal defense ties exist with NZ, which is required to consider
any Samoan request for assistance under the 1962 Treaty of Friendship


Transnational Issues
Samoa



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@San Marino

Introduction
San Marino



Background:

The third smallest state in Europe (after the Holy See and Monaco),
San Marino also claims to be the world's oldest republic. According
to tradition, it was founded by a Christian stonemason named Marinus
in A.D. 301. San Marino's foreign policy is aligned with that of
Italy; social and political trends in the republic also track
closely with those of its larger neighbor.


Geography
San Marino



Location:

Southern Europe, an enclave in central Italy


Geographic coordinates:

43 46 N, 12 25 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 61.2 sq km
land: 61.2 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

about one third times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

total: 39 km
border countries: Italy 39 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

Mediterranean; mild to cool winters; warm, sunny summers


Terrain:

rugged mountains


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Torrente Ausa 55 m
highest point: Monte Titano 755 m


Natural resources:

building stone


Land use:

arable land: 16.67%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 83.33% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

NA


Environment - current issues:

NA


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution


Geography - note:

landlocked; smallest independent state in Europe after the Holy See
and Monaco; dominated by the Apennines


People
San Marino



Population:

29,973 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 16.8% (male 2,608/female 2,430)
15-64 years: 66% (male 9,464/female 10,304)
65 years and over: 17.2% (male 2,229/female 2,938) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 41.2 years
male: 40.9 years
female: 41.6 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.181% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

9.74 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

8.37 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

10.44 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.09 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.07 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.92 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.76 male(s)/female
total population: 0.91 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 5.44 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 5.86 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 4.98 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 81.88 years
male: 78.43 years
female: 85.64 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.35 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Sammarinese (singular and plural)
adjective: Sammarinese


Ethnic groups:

Sammarinese, Italian


Religions:

Roman Catholic


Languages:

Italian


Literacy:

definition: age 10 and over can read and write
total population: 96%
male: 97%
female: 95%


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
San Marino



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of San Marino
conventional short form: San Marino
local long form: Repubblica di San Marino
local short form: San Marino


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: San Marino
geographic coordinates: 43 56 N, 12 25 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

9 municipalities (castelli, singular - castello); Acquaviva, Borgo
Maggiore, Chiesanuova, Domagnano, Faetano, Fiorentino,
Montegiardino, San Marino Citta, Serravalle


Independence:

3 September AD 301


National holiday:

Founding of the Republic, 3 September (AD 301)


Constitution:

8 October 1600; electoral law of 1926 serves some of the functions
of a constitution


Legal system:

based on civil law system with Italian law influences; has not
accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Co-chiefs of State Captain Regent Ernesto
BENEDETTINI and Captain Regent Assunta MELONI (for the period 1
October-31 March 2009)
head of government: Secretary of State for Foreign and Political
Affairs Fiorenzo STOLFI (since 27 July 2006)
cabinet: Congress of State elected by the Great and General Council
for a five-year term
elections: co-chiefs of state (captains regent) elected by the Great
and General Council for a six-month term; election last held in
September 2007 (next to be held in March 2008); secretary of state
for foreign and political affairs elected by the Great and General
Council for a five-year term; election last held 27 July 2006 (next
to be held by 2011)
election results: Ernesto BENEDETTINI and Assunta MELONI elected
captains regent; percent of legislative vote - NA; Fiorenzo STOLFI
elected secretary of state for foreign and political affairs;
percent of legislative vote - NA
note: the popularly elected parliament (Grand and General Council)
selects two of its members to serve as the Captains Regent
(co-chiefs of state) for a six-month period; they preside over
meetings of the Grand and General Council and its cabinet (Congress
of State), which has 10 other members, all selected by the Grand and
General Council; assisting the captains regent are 10 secretaries of
state; the secretary of state for Foreign Affairs has assumed some
prime ministerial roles


Legislative branch:

unicameral Grand and General Council or Consiglio Grande e Generale
(60 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year
terms)
elections: last held 9 November 2008 (next to be held by June 2013)
election results: percent of vote by party - Pact for San Marino
coalition 54.2%: PDCS 31.9%, AP 11.5%, Freedom List 6.3%, San Marino
Union of Moderates 4.2%; Reforms and Freedom coalition 45.8%; Party
of Socialists and Democrats 32%, United Left 8.6%, Democrats of the
Center 4.9%; seats by party - Pact for San Marino coalition 35; PDCS
22, AP 7, the Freedom List 4, San Marino Union of Moderates 2;
Reforms and Freedm coalition 25: Party of Socialists and Democrats
18, United Left 5, Democrats of the Center 2


Judicial branch:

Council of Twelve or Consiglio dei XII


Political parties and leaders:

Communist Refoundation or RC [Ivan FOSHI]; Democrats of the Center;
Freedom List; Ideas in Movement or IM [Alessandro ROSSI]; National
Alliance or AN [Glauco SANSOVINI]; New Socialist Party [Augusto
CASALI]; Party of Socialists and Democrats [Claudio FELICI]; San
Marino Christian Democratic Party or PDCS [Pier Marino MENICUCCI];
San Marino Popular Alliance of Democrats or AP [Roberto GIORGETTI];
San Marino Socialist Party or PSS [Alberto CECCHETTI]; Socialists
for Reform or SR [Renzo GIARDI]; Union of Moderates; United Left


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

CE, FAO, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol,
IOC, IOM (observer), IPU, ITU, ITUC, OPCW, OSCE, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
Union Latina, UNWTO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Paolo RONDELLI
chancery: 888 27th Street NW, Suite 900, Washington, DC 20006
telephone: 202-337-2260


Diplomatic representation from the US:

the US does not have an embassy in San Marino; the ambassador to
Italy is accredited to San Marino


Flag description:

two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and light blue with the
national coat of arms superimposed in the center; the coat of arms
has a shield (featuring three towers on three peaks) flanked by a
wreath, below a crown and above a scroll bearing the word LIBERTAS
(Liberty)


Economy
San Marino



Economy - overview:

The tourist sector contributes over 50% of GDP. In 2006 more than
2.1 million tourists visited San Marino. The key industries are
banking, clothing and apparel, electronics, and ceramics. Main
agricultural products are wine and cheeses. The per capita level of
output and standard of living are comparable to those of the most
prosperous regions of Italy, which supplies much of its food.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$850 million (2004 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$1.048 billion (2004)


GDP - real growth rate:

4.6% (2004 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$34,100 (2004 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: NA%
industry: NA%
services: NA%


Labor force:

20,470 (2004)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 0.2%
industry: 40.1%
services: 59.7% (2006 est.)


Unemployment rate:

3.8% (2004)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $709.6 million
expenditures: $672.3 million (2004)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

-1.5% (2006)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

7.58% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$1.326 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$4.584 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$7.513 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

wheat, grapes, corn, olives; cattle, pigs, horses, beef, cheese,
hides


Industries:

tourism, banking, textiles, electronics, ceramics, cement, wine


Industrial production growth rate:

5.6% (2005 est.)


Exports:

$1.291 billion (2004)


Exports - commodities:

building stone, lime, wood, chestnuts, wheat, wine, baked goods,
hides, ceramics


Imports:

$2.035 billion (2004)


Imports - commodities:

wide variety of consumer manufactures, food


Economic aid - recipient:

$NA


Debt - external:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

euro (EUR)


Currency code:

EUR


Exchange rates:

euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006), 0.8041
(2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)


Communications
San Marino



Telephones - main lines in use:

21,000 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

17,390 (2006)


Telephone system:

general assessment: adequate connections
domestic: automatic telephone system completely integrated into
Italian system; combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity
exceeds 130 telephones per 100 persons
international: country code - 378; connected to Italian
international network


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 0, FM 3, shortwave 0 (1998)


Radios:

16,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (San Marino residents also receive broadcasts from Italy) (1997)


Televisions:

9,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.sm


Internet hosts:

6,665 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

2 (2000)


Internet users:

15,400 (2006)


Transportation
San Marino



Roadways:

total: 292 km
paved: 292 km (2006)


Military
San Marino



Military branches:

no regular military forces; Voluntary Military Force (Corpi Militari
Voluntar) performs ceremonial duties and limited police support
functions (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

16-55 for voluntary service in Voluntary Military Force (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 6,613 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 5,345 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 156
female: 154 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

NA


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of Italy


Transnational Issues
San Marino



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Sao Tome and Principe

Introduction
Sao Tome and Principe



Background:

Discovered and claimed by Portugal in the late 15th century, the
islands' sugar-based economy gave way to coffee and cocoa in the
19th century - all grown with plantation slave labor, a form of
which lingered into the 20th century. While independence was
achieved in 1975, democratic reforms were not instituted until the
late 1980s. The country held its first free elections in 1991, but
frequent internal wrangling between the various political parties
precipitated repeated changes in leadership and two failed coup
attempts in 1995 and 2003. The recent discovery of oil in the Gulf
of Guinea promises to attract increased attention to the small
island nation.


Geography
Sao Tome and Principe



Location:

Western Africa, islands in the Gulf of Guinea, straddling the
Equator, west of Gabon


Geographic coordinates:

1 00 N, 7 00 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 1,001 sq km
land: 1,001 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

more than five times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

209 km


Maritime claims:

measured from claimed archipelagic baselines
territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; hot, humid; one rainy season (October to May)


Terrain:

volcanic, mountainous


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Pico de Sao Tome 2,024 m


Natural resources:

fish, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 8.33%
permanent crops: 48.96%
other: 42.71% (2005)


Irrigated land:

100 sq km (2003)


Natural hazards:

NA


Environment - current issues:

deforestation; soil erosion and exhaustion


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered
Species, Environmental Modification, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

the smallest country in Africa; the two main islands form part of a
chain of extinct volcanoes and both are mountainous


People
Sao Tome and Principe



Population:

206,178 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 47.1% (male 49,196/female 47,941)
15-64 years: 49.3% (male 49,326/female 52,324)
65 years and over: 3.6% (male 3,350/female 4,041) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 16.3 years
male: 15.8 years
female: 16.9 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

3.116% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

39.12 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

5.98 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-1.97 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.94 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.83 male(s)/female
total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 38.36 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 40.11 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 36.55 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 68 years
male: 66.35 years
female: 69.69 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

5.43 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever
vectorborne disease: malaria (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Sao Tomean(s)
adjective: Sao Tomean


Ethnic groups:

mestico, angolares (descendants of Angolan slaves), forros
(descendants of freed slaves), servicais (contract laborers from
Angola, Mozambique, and Cape Verde), tongas (children of servicais
born on the islands), Europeans (primarily Portuguese)


Religions:

Catholic 70.3%, Evangelical 3.4%, New Apostolic 2%, Adventist 1.8%,
other 3.1%, none 19.4% (2001 census)


Languages:

Portuguese (official)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 84.9%
male: 92.2%
female: 77.9% (2001 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 10 years
male: 10 years
female: 10 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Sao Tome and Principe



Country name:

conventional long form: Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe
conventional short form: Sao Tome and Principe
local long form: Republica Democratica de Sao Tome e Principe
local short form: Sao Tome e Principe


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Sao Tome
geographic coordinates: 0 12 N, 6 39 E
time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

2 provinces; Principe, Sao Tome
note: Principe has had self government since 29 April 1995


Independence:

12 July 1975 (from Portugal)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 12 July (1975)


Constitution:

approved March 1990, effective 10 September 1990


Legal system:

based on Portuguese legal system and customary law; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Fradique DE MENEZES (since 3 September
2001)
head of government: Prime Minister Joachim Rafael BRANCO (since 22
June 2008)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
proposal of the prime minister
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 30 July 2006 (next
to be held July 2011); prime minister chosen by the National
Assembly and approved by the president
election results: Fradique DE MENEZES elected president; percent of
vote - Fradique DE MENEZES 60%, Patrice TROVOADA 38.5%


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly or Assembleia Nacional (55 seats;
members are elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
elections: last held on 26 March 2006 (next to be held in March 2010)
election results: percent of vote by party - MDFM-PCD 37.2%, MLSTP
28.9%, ADI 20.0%, NR 4.7%, others 9.2%; seats by party - MDFM-PCD
23, MLSTP 19, ADI 12, NR 1


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the National Assembly)


Political parties and leaders:

Force for Change Democratic Movement or MDFM [Tome Soares da VERA
CRUZ]; Independent Democratic Action or ADI [[Patrice TROVOADA];
Movement for the Liberation of Sao Tome and Principe-Social
Democratic Party or MLSTP-PSD [Rafael BRANCO]; New Way Movement or
NR; Party for Democratic Convergence or PCD [Delfim NEVES];
Ue-Kedadji coalition; other small parties


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Association of Sao Tome and Principe NGOs or FONG
other: the media


International organization participation:

ACP, AfDB, AU, CPLP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt (signatory), ICRM,
IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer),
IPU, ITU, ITUC, NAM, OIF, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union
Latina, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: First Secretary Domingos Augusto FERREIRA
chancery: 400 Park Avenue, 7th Floor, New York, NY 10022
telephone: [1] (212) 317-0580
FAX: [1] (212) 935-7348
consulate(s): Atlanta


Diplomatic representation from the US:

the US does not have an embassy in Sao Tome and Principe; the
Ambassador to Gabon is accredited to Sao Tome and Principe on a
nonresident basis and makes periodic visits to the islands


Flag description:

three horizontal bands of green (top), yellow (double width), and
green with two black five-pointed stars placed side by side in the
center of the yellow band and a red isosceles triangle based on the
hoist side; uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia


Economy
Sao Tome and Principe



Economy - overview:

This small, poor island economy has become increasingly dependent on
cocoa since independence in 1975. Cocoa production has substantially
declined in recent years because of drought and mismanagement. Sao
Tome has to import all fuels, most manufactured goods, consumer
goods, and a substantial amount of food. Over the years, it has had
difficulty servicing its external debt and has relied heavily on
concessional aid and debt rescheduling. Sao Tome benefited from $200
million in debt relief in December 2000 under the Highly Indebted
Poor Countries (HIPC) program, which helped bring down the country's
$300 million debt burden. In August 2005, Sao Tome signed on to a
new 3-year IMF Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) program
worth $4.3 million. Considerable potential exists for development of
a tourist industry, and the government has taken steps to expand
facilities in recent years. The government also has attempted to
reduce price controls and subsidies. Sao Tome is optimistic about
the development of petroleum resources in its territorial waters in
the oil-rich Gulf of Guinea, which are being jointly developed in a
60-40 split with Nigeria. The first production licenses were sold in
2004, though a dispute over licensing with Nigeria delayed Sao
Tome's receipt of more than $20 million in signing bonuses for
almost a year. Real GDP growth exceeded 6% in 2007, as a result of
increases in public expenditures and oil-related capital investment.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$256 million (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$144 million (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$1,600 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 14.9%
industry: 14%
services: 71% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

35,050 (1991)


Labor force - by occupation:

note: population mainly engaged in subsistence agriculture and
fishing; shortages of skilled workers


Unemployment rate:

NA%


Population below poverty line:

54% (2004 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Investment (gross fixed):

36.9% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $63.21 million
expenditures: $54.94 million (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

18% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

28% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

32.4% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$19.99 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$33.5 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$31.84 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

cocoa, coconuts, palm kernels, copra, cinnamon, pepper, coffee,
bananas, papayas, beans; poultry; fish


Industries:

light construction, textiles, soap, beer, fish processing, timber


Industrial production growth rate:

7% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

18 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

16.74 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 41.2%
hydro: 58.8%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

660 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

659.5 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$55 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$9 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

cocoa 80%, copra, coffee, palm oil


Exports - partners:

Netherlands 23.7%, Belgium 23.7%, France 12.9%, US 5.9%, Portugal
4.1% (2007)


Imports:

$66 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and electrical equipment, food products, petroleum products


Imports - partners:

Portugal 62.2%, US 11.6%, Gabon 4.5% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$31.9 million in December 2000 under the Heavily Indebted Poor
Country Initiative (HIPC) program (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$34.6 million (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$318 million (2002)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

dobra (STD)


Currency code:

STD


Exchange rates:

dobras (STD) per US dollar - 13,700 (2007), 12,050 (2006), 9,900.4
(2005), 9,902.3 (2004), 9,347.6 (2003)


Communications
Sao Tome and Principe



Telephones - main lines in use:

7,700 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

30,100 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: local telephone network of adequate quality with
most lines connected to digital switches
domestic: combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity
approaching 20 telephones per 100 persons
international: country code - 239; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 5, shortwave 1 (2001)


Radios:

38,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

2 (2001)


Televisions:

23,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.st


Internet hosts:

1,355 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2002)


Internet users:

23,000 (2007)


Transportation
Sao Tome and Principe



Airports:

2 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 320 km
paved: 218 km
unpaved: 102 km (2000)


Merchant marine:

total: 6
by type: bulk carrier 1, cargo 5
foreign-owned: 1 (Greece 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Sao Tome


Military
Sao Tome and Principe



Military branches:

Armed Forces of Sao Tome and Principe (FASTP): Army, Coast Guard of
Sao Tome e Principe (Guarda Costeira de Sao Tome e Principe, GCSTP),
Presidential Guard (2007)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age (est.) (2004)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 42,340
females age 16-49: 43,781 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 33,735
females age 16-49: 36,779 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 2,437
female: 2,394 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0.8% of GDP (2006)


Military - note:

Sao Tome and Principe's army is a tiny force with almost no
resources at its disposal and would be wholly ineffective operating
unilaterally; infantry equipment is considered simple to operate and
maintain but may require refurbishment or replacement after 25 years
in tropical climates; poor pay, working conditions, and alleged
nepotism in the promotion of officers have been problems in the
past, as reflected in the 1995 and 2003 coups; these issues are
being addressed with foreign assistance aimed at improving the army
and its focus on realistic security concerns; command is exercised
from the president, through the Minister of Defense, to the Chief of
the Armed Forces staff (2005)


Transnational Issues
Sao Tome and Principe



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Saudi Arabia

Introduction
Saudi Arabia



Background:

Saudi Arabia is the birthplace of Islam and home to Islam's two
holiest shrines in Mecca and Medina. The king's official title is
the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques. The modern Saudi state was
founded in 1932 by ABD AL-AZIZ bin Abd al-Rahman AL SAUD (Ibn Saud)
after a 30-year campaign to unify most of the Arabian Peninsula. A
male descendent of Ibn Saud, his son ABDALLAH bin Abd al-Aziz, rules
the country today as required by the country's 1992 Basic Law.
Following Iraq's invasion of Kuwait in 1990, Saudi Arabia accepted
the Kuwaiti royal family and 400,000 refugees while allowing Western
and Arab troops to deploy on its soil for the liberation of Kuwait
the following year. The continuing presence of foreign troops on
Saudi soil after the liberation of Kuwait became a source of tension
between the royal family and the public until all operational US
troops left the country in 2003. Major terrorist attacks in May and
November 2003 spurred a strong on-going campaign against domestic
terrorism and extremism. King ABDALLAH has continued the cautious
reform program begun when he was crown prince. To promote increased
political participation, the government held elections nationwide
from February through April 2005 for half the members of 179
municipal councils. In December 2005, King ABDALLAH completed the
process by appointing the remaining members of the advisory
municipal councils. The country remains a leading producer of oil
and natural gas and holds more than 20% of the world's proven oil
reserves. The government continues to pursue economic reform and
diversification, particularly since Saudi Arabia's accession to the
WTO in December 2005, and promotes foreign investment in the
kingdom. A burgeoning population, aquifer depletion, and an economy
largely dependent on petroleum output and prices are all ongoing
governmental concerns.


Geography
Saudi Arabia



Location:

Middle East, bordering the Persian Gulf and the Red Sea, north of
Yemen


Geographic coordinates:

25 00 N, 45 00 E


Map references:

Middle East


Area:

total: 2,149,690 sq km
land: 2,149,690 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly more than one-fifth the size of the US


Land boundaries:

total: 4,431 km
border countries: Iraq 814 km, Jordan 744 km, Kuwait 222 km, Oman
676 km, Qatar 60 km, UAE 457 km, Yemen 1,458 km


Coastline:

2,640 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 18 nm
continental shelf: not specified


Climate:

harsh, dry desert with great temperature extremes


Terrain:

mostly uninhabited, sandy desert


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Persian Gulf 0 m
highest point: Jabal Sawda' 3,133 m


Natural resources:

petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, gold, copper


Land use:

arable land: 1.67%
permanent crops: 0.09%
other: 98.24% (2005)


Irrigated land:

16,200 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

2.4 cu km (1997)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 17.32 cu km/yr (10%/1%/89%)
per capita: 705 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

frequent sand and dust storms


Environment - current issues:

desertification; depletion of underground water resources; the lack
of perennial rivers or permanent water bodies has prompted the
development of extensive seawater desalination facilities; coastal
pollution from oil spills


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

extensive coastlines on Persian Gulf and Red Sea provide great
leverage on shipping (especially crude oil) through Persian Gulf and
Suez Canal


People
Saudi Arabia



Population:

28,146,656
note: includes 5,576,076 non-nationals (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 38% (male 5,458,023/female 5,245,911)
15-64 years: 59.5% (male 9,470,353/female 7,284,696)
65 years and over: 2.4% (male 356,910/female 330,764) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 21.5 years
male: 22.9 years
female: 19.8 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.954% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

28.85 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

2.49 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-6.82 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.3 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 1.08 male(s)/female
total population: 1.19 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 11.94 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 13.58 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 10.23 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 76.09 years
male: 74.04 years
female: 78.25 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

3.89 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.01% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Saudi(s)
adjective: Saudi or Saudi Arabian


Ethnic groups:

Arab 90%, Afro-Asian 10%


Religions:

Muslim 100%


Languages:

Arabic


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 78.8%
male: 84.7%
female: 70.8% (2003 est.)


Education expenditures:

6.8% of GDP (2004)


Government
Saudi Arabia



Country name:

conventional long form: Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
conventional short form: Saudi Arabia
local long form: Al Mamlakah al Arabiyah as Suudiyah
local short form: Al Arabiyah as Suudiyah


Government type:

monarchy


Capital:

name: Riyadh
geographic coordinates: 24 38 N, 46 43 E
time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

13 provinces (mintaqat, singular - mintaqah); Al Bahah, Al Hudud ash
Shamaliyah, Al Jawf, Al Madinah, Al Qasim, Ar Riyad, Ash Sharqiyah
(Eastern Province), 'Asir, Ha'il, Jizan, Makkah, Najran, Tabuk


Independence:

23 September 1932 (unification of the kingdom)


National holiday:

Unification of the Kingdom, 23 September (1932)


Constitution:

governed according to Islamic law; the Basic Law that articulates
the government's rights and responsibilities was promulgated by
royal decree in 1992


Legal system:

based on Sharia law, several secular codes have been introduced;
commercial disputes handled by special committees; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

21 years of age; male


Executive branch:

chief of state: King and Prime Minister ABDALLAH bin Abd al-Aziz Al
Saud (since 1 August 2005); Heir Apparent Crown Prince SULTAN bin
Abd al- Aziz Al Saud (half brother of the monarch, born 5 January
1928); note - the monarch is both the chief of state and head of
government
head of government: King and Prime Minister ABDALLAH bin Abd al-Aziz
Al Saud (since 1 August 2005)
cabinet: Council of Ministers is appointed by the monarch every four
years and includes many royal family members
elections: none; the monarchy is hereditary; note - a new Allegiance
Commission created by royal decree in October 2006 established a
committee of Saudi princes that will play a role in selecting future
Saudi kings, but the new system will not take effect until after
Crown Prince Sultan becomes king


Legislative branch:

Consultative Council or Majlis al-Shura (150 members and a chairman
appointed by the monarch for four-year terms); note - though the
Council of Ministers announced in October 2003 its intent to
introduce elections for half of the members of local and provincial
assemblies and a third of the members of the national Consultative
Council or Majlis al-Shura, incrementally over a period of four to
five years, to date no such elections have been held or announced


Judicial branch:

Supreme Council of Justice


Political parties and leaders:

none


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Ansar Al Marah (supports women's rights)
other: gas companies; religious groups


International organization participation:

ABEDA, AfDB (nonregional members), AFESD, AMF, BIS, FAO, G-77, GCC,
IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF,
IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, LAS, MIGA, NAM,
OAPEC, OAS (observer), OIC, OPCW, OPEC, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNIDO, UNRWA, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Adil al-Ahmad al-JUBAYR
chancery: 601 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20037
telephone: [1] (202) 342-3800
FAX: [1] (202) 944-3113
consulate(s) general: Houston, Los Angeles, New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Ford M. FRAKER
embassy: Collector Road M, Diplomatic Quarter, Riyadh
mailing address: American Embassy, Unit 61307, APO AE 09803-1307;
International Mail: P. O. Box 94309, Riyadh 11693
telephone: [966] (1) 488-3800
FAX: [966] (1) 488-7360
consulate(s) general: Dhahran, Jiddah (Jeddah)


Flag description:

green, a traditional color in Islamic flags, with the Shahada or
Muslim creed in large white Arabic script (translated as "There is
no god but God; Muhammad is the Messenger of God") above a white
horizontal saber (the tip points to the hoist side); design dates to
the early twentieth century and is closely associated with the Al
Saud family which established the kingdom in 1932


Economy
Saudi Arabia



Economy - overview:

Saudi Arabia has an oil-based economy with strong government
controls over major economic activities. It possesses more than 20%
of the world's proven petroleum reserves, ranks as the largest
exporter of petroleum, and plays a leading role in OPEC. The
petroleum sector accounts for roughly 75% of budget revenues, 45% of
GDP, and 90% of export earnings. About 40% of GDP comes from the
private sector. Roughly 5.5 million foreign workers play an
important role in the Saudi economy, particularly in the oil and
service sectors. High oil prices have boosted growth, government
revenues, and Saudi ownership of foreign assets, while enabling
Riyadh to pay down domestic debt. The government is encouraging
private sector growth - especially in power generation,
telecommunications, natural gas exploration, and petrochemicals - to
lessen the kingdom's dependence on oil exports and to increase
employment opportunities for the swelling Saudi population, nearly
40% of which are youths under 15 years old. Unemployment is high,
and the large youth population generally lacks the education and
technical skills the private sector needs. Riyadh has substantially
boosted spending on job training and education, infrastructure
development, and government salaries. As part of its effort to
attract foreign investment and diversify the economy, Saudi Arabia
acceded to the WTO in December 2005 after many years of
negotiations. The government has announced plans to establish six
"economic cities" in different regions of the country to promote
development and diversification.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$546 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$376 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

3.5% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$19,800 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 3%
industry: 63.7%
services: 33.3% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

6.563 million
note: about one-third of the population in the 15-64 age group is
non-national (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 12%
industry: 25%
services: 63% (1999 est.)


Unemployment rate:

13% among Saudi males only (local bank estimate; some estimates
range as high as 25%) (2004 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Investment (gross fixed):

20% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $163 billion
expenditures: $118.3 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

24.3% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

4.1% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

NA


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

NA


Stock of money:

$102.4 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$109.5 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$66.94 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

wheat, barley, tomatoes, melons, dates, citrus; mutton, chickens,
eggs, milk


Industries:

crude oil production, petroleum refining, basic petrochemicals,
ammonia, industrial gases, sodium hydroxide (caustic soda), cement,
fertilizer, plastics, metals, commercial ship repair, commercial
aircraft repair, construction


Industrial production growth rate:

2.9% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

179.1 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

156.8 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

10.25 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

2.311 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

8.9 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - imports:

41,680 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

266.8 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

75.9 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

75.9 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

7.167 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$86.62 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$226.7 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

petroleum and petroleum products 90%


Exports - partners:

US 17.1%, Japan 16.3%, South Korea 9.7%, China 8.1%, Taiwan 4.7%,
Singapore 4% (2007)


Imports:

$82.64 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, foodstuffs, chemicals, motor vehicles,
textiles


Imports - partners:

US 12.6%, China 9.4%, Germany 8.8%, Japan 8.1%, Italy 5%, South
Korea 4.9%, UK 4.5% (2007)


Economic aid - donor:

since 2002, Saudi Arabia has provided more than $480 million in
budgetary support to the Palestinian Authority, supported
Palestinian refugees through contributions to the UN Relief and
Works Agency (UNRWA), provided more than $250 million to Arab League
funds for the Palestinians, and pledged $500 million in assistance
over the next three years at the Donors Conference in Dec 2007;
pledged $230 million to development in Afghanistan; pledged $1
billion in export guarantees and soft loans to Iraq; pledged $133
million in direct grant aid, $187 million in concessional loans, and
$153 million in export credits for Pakistan earthquake relief;
pledged a total of $1.59 billion to Lebanon in assistance and
deposits to the Central Bank of Lebanon in 2006 and pledged an
additional $1.1 billion in early 2007


Economic aid - recipient:

$26.29 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$34.01 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$58.6 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$NA


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$326.9 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

Saudi riyal (SAR)


Currency code:

SAR


Exchange rates:

Saudi riyals (SAR) per US dollar - 3.745 (2007), 3.745 (2006), 3.747
(2005), 3.75 (2004), 3.75 (2003)


Communications
Saudi Arabia



Telephones - main lines in use:

3.996 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

28.381 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: modern system
domestic: extensive microwave radio relay, coaxial cable, and
fiber-optic cable systems; mobile-cellular subscribership has been
increasing rapidly
international: country code - 966; landing point for the
international submarine cable Fiber-Optic Link Around the Globe
(FLAG) and for both the SEA-ME-WE-3 and SEA-ME-WE-4 submarine cable
networks providing connectivity to Asia, Middle East, Europe, and
US; microwave radio relay to Bahrain, Jordan, Kuwait, Qatar, UAE,
Yemen, and Sudan; coaxial cable to Kuwait and Jordan; satellite
earth stations - 5 Intelsat (3 Atlantic Ocean and 2 Indian Ocean), 1
Arabsat, and 1 Inmarsat (Indian Ocean region)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 43, FM 31, shortwave 2 (1998)


Radios:

6.25 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

117 (1997)


Televisions:

5.1 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.sa


Internet hosts:

141,232 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

22 (2003)


Internet users:

6.2 million (2007)


Transportation
Saudi Arabia



Airports:

213 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 77
over 3,047 m: 32
2,438 to 3,047 m: 15
1,524 to 2,437 m: 26
914 to 1,523 m: 2
under 914 m: 2 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 136
over 3,047 m: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 8
1,524 to 2,437 m: 73
914 to 1,523 m: 39
under 914 m: 15 (2007)


Heliports:

8 (2007)


Pipelines:

condensate 212 km; gas 1,880 km; liquid petroleum gas 1,183 km; oil
4,521 km; refined products 1,148 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 1,392 km
standard gauge: 1,392 km 1.435-m gauge (with branch lines and
sidings) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 221,372 km
paved: 47,529 km (includes 3,891 km of expressways)
unpaved: 173,843 km (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 62
by type: cargo 5, chemical tanker 13, container 5, passenger/cargo
8, petroleum tanker 20, refrigerated cargo 3, roll on/roll off 8
foreign-owned: 12 (Egypt 1, Greece 3, Kuwait 7, UAE 1)
registered in other countries: 71 (Bahamas 16, Comoros 1, Dominica
2, France 1, Liberia 27, Marshall Islands 5, Norway 3, Panama 16)
(2008)


Ports and terminals:

Ad Dammam, Al Jubayl, Jiddah, Yanbu' al Sinaiyah


Military
Saudi Arabia



Military branches:

Land Forces (Army), Navy, Air Force, Air Defense Force, National
Guard, Ministry of Interior Forces (paramilitary)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age (est.); no conscription (2004)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 8,547,441
females age 16-49: 6,381,098 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 7,398,417
females age 16-49: 5,525,357 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 271,905
female: 261,795 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

10% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Saudi Arabia



Disputes - international:

Saudi Arabia has reinforced its concrete-filled security barrier
along sections of the now fully demarcated border with Yemen to stem
illegal cross-border activities; Kuwait and Saudi Arabia continue
discussions on a maritime boundary with Iran


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 240,015 (Palestinian Territories)
(2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Saudi Arabia is a destination country for workers
from South and Southeast Asia who are subjected to conditions that
constitute involuntary servitude including being subjected to
physical and sexual abuse, non-payment of wages, confinement, and
withholding of passports as a restriction on their movement;
domestic workers are particularly vulnerable because some are
confined to the house in which they work unable to seek help; Saudi
Arabia is also a destination country for Nigerian, Yemeni,
Pakistani, Afghan, Somali, Malian, and Sudanese children trafficked
for forced begging and involuntary servitude as street vendors; some
Nigerian women were reportedly trafficked into Saudi Arabia for
commercial sexual exploitation
tier rating: Tier 3 - Saudi Arabia does not fully comply with the
minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking and is not
making significant efforts to do so; the government continues to
lack adequate anti-trafficking laws and, despite evidence of
widespread trafficking abuses, did not report any criminal
prosecutions, convictions, or prison sentences for trafficking
crimes committed against foreign domestic workers (2008)


Illicit drugs:

death penalty for traffickers; improving anti-money-laundering
legislation and enforcement



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Senegal

Introduction
Senegal



Background:

The French colonies of Senegal and the French Sudan were merged in
1959 and granted their independence as the Mali Federation in 1960.
The union broke up after only a few months. Senegal joined with The
Gambia to form the nominal confederation of Senegambia in 1982, but
the envisaged integration of the two countries was never carried
out, and the union was dissolved in 1989. The Movement of Democratic
Forces in the Casamance (MFDC) has led a low-level separatist
insurgency in southern Senegal since the 1980s, and several peace
deals have failed to resolve the conflict. Nevertheless, Senegal
remains one of the most stable democracies in Africa. Senegal was
ruled by a Socialist Party for 40 years until current President
Abdoulaye WADE was elected in 2000. He was reelected in February
2007, but complaints of fraud led opposition parties to boycott June
2007 legislative polls. Senegal has a long history of participating
in international peacekeeping.


Geography
Senegal



Location:

Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean, between
Guinea-Bissau and Mauritania


Geographic coordinates:

14 00 N, 14 00 W


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 196,190 sq km
land: 192,000 sq km
water: 4,190 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than South Dakota


Land boundaries:

total: 2,640 km
border countries: The Gambia 740 km, Guinea 330 km, Guinea-Bissau
338 km, Mali 419 km, Mauritania 813 km


Coastline:

531 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin


Climate:

tropical; hot, humid; rainy season (May to November) has strong
southeast winds; dry season (December to April) dominated by hot,
dry, harmattan wind


Terrain:

generally low, rolling, plains rising to foothills in southeast


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: unnamed feature near Nepen Diakha 581 m


Natural resources:

fish, phosphates, iron ore


Land use:

arable land: 12.51%
permanent crops: 0.24%
other: 87.25% (2005)


Irrigated land:

1,200 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

39.4 cu km (1987)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 2.22 cu km/yr (4%/3%/93%)
per capita: 190 cu m/yr (2002)


Natural hazards:

lowlands seasonally flooded; periodic droughts


Environment - current issues:

wildlife populations threatened by poaching; deforestation;
overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification; overfishing


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling


Geography - note:

westernmost country on the African continent; The Gambia is almost
an enclave within Senegal


People
Senegal



Population:

12,853,259 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 41.9% (male 2,717,257/female 2,668,602)
15-64 years: 55.1% (male 3,524,683/female 3,552,643)
65 years and over: 3% (male 183,188/female 206,886) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 18.8 years
male: 18.6 years
female: 19 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.58% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

36.52 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

10.72 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.88 male(s)/female
total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 58.93 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 62.79 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 54.96 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 57.08 years
male: 55.7 years
female: 58.5 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

4.86 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.8% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

44,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

3,500 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever, dengue fever,
malaria, Rift Valley fever, and yellow fever
water contact disease: schistosomiasis
respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Senegalese (singular and plural)
adjective: Senegalese


Ethnic groups:

Wolof 43.3%, Pular 23.8%, Serer 14.7%, Jola 3.7%, Mandinka 3%,
Soninke 1.1%, European and Lebanese 1%, other 9.4%


Religions:

Muslim 94%, Christian 5% (mostly Roman Catholic), indigenous beliefs
1%


Languages:

French (official), Wolof, Pulaar, Jola, Mandinka


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 39.3%
male: 51.1%
female: 29.2% (2002 est.)


Education expenditures:

5% of GDP (2006)


Government
Senegal



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Senegal
conventional short form: Senegal
local long form: Republique du Senegal
local short form: Senegal
former: Senegambia (along with The Gambia), Mali Federation


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Dakar
geographic coordinates: 14 40 N, 17 26 W
time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

11 regions (regions, singular - region); Dakar, Diourbel, Fatick,
Kaolack, Kolda, Louga, Matam, Saint-Louis, Tambacounda, Thies,
Ziguinchor


Independence:

4 April 1960 (from France); note - complete independence achieved
upon dissolution of federation with Mali on 20 August 1960


National holiday:

Independence Day, 4 April (1960)


Constitution:

adopted 7 January 2001


Legal system:

based on French civil law system; judicial review of legislative
acts in Constitutional Court; the Council of State audits the
government's accounting office; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Abdoulaye WADE (since 1 April 2000)
head of government: Prime Minister Cheikh Hadjibou SOUMARE (since 19
June 2007)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister in
consultation with the president
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term) under new constitution; election last
held on 25 February 2007 (next to be held in 2012); prime minister
appointed by the president
election results: Abdoulaye WADE reelected president in the first
round of voting; percent of vote - Abdoulaye WADE 55.9%, Idrissa
SECK 14.9%, Ousmane Tanor DIENG 13.6%, Moustapha NIASSE 5.9%, other
9.7%


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament consisting of the National Assembly or
Assemblee Nationale (150 seats; 90 members elected by direct popular
vote with the remaining members elected by proportional
representation from party lists to serve five-year terms) and the
Senate reinstituted in 2007 (100 seats; 35 indirectly elected with
the remaining 65 members to be appointed by the president)
elections: National Assembly - last held on 3 June 2007 (next to be
held 2012); note - the National Assembly in December 2005 voted to
postpone legislative elections originally scheduled for 2006;
legislative elections were first rescheduled to coincide with the 25
February 2007 presidential elections and later rescheduled for 3
June 2007; the June election was boycotted by 12 opposition parties,
including the former ruling Socialist Party, that resulted in a
record-low, 35-percent voter turnout; Senate - last held 19 August
2007 (next to be held - NA)
election results: National Assembly results - percent of vote by
party - NA; seats by party - SOPI Coalition 131, other 19; Senate
results - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - PDS 34,
AJ/PADS 1, 65 appointed by the president


Judicial branch:

Constitutional Court; Council of State; Court of Final Appeals or
Cour de Cassation; Court of Appeals


Political parties and leaders:

African Party of Independence [Majhemout DIOP]; And-Jef/African
Party for Democracy and Socialism or AJ/PADS [Landing SAVANE];
Alliance of Forces of Progress or AFP [Moustapha NIASSE]; Democratic
League-Labor Party Movement or LD-MPT [Dr. Abdoulaye BATHILY]; Front
for Socialism and Democracy/Benno Jubel or FSD/BJ [Cheikh Abdoulaye
Bamba DIEYE]; Gainde Centrist Bloc or BGC [Jean-Paul DIAS];
Independence and Labor Party or PIT [Amath DANSOKHO]; Jef-Jel [Talla
SYLLA]; National Democratic Rally or RND [Madior DIOUF]; People's
Labor Party or PTP [Elhadji DIOUF]; Reform Party or PR [Abdourahim
AGNE]; Senegalese Democratic Party or PDS [Abdoulaye WADE];
Socialist Party or PS [Ousmane Tanor DIENG]; SOPI Coalition
[Abdoulaye WADE] (a coalition led by the PDS); Union for Democratic
Renewal or URD [Djibo Leyti KA]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

other: labor; students; Sufi brotherhoods, including the Mourides
and Tidjanes; teachers


International organization participation:

ACP, AfDB, AU, CPLP (associate), ECOWAS, FAO, FZ, G-15, G-77, IAEA,
IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF,
IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU,
ITUC, MIGA, MINURCAT, MONUC, NAM, OIC, OIF, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNAMID,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNMIL, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WADB
(regional), WAEMU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Amadou Lamine BA
chancery: 2112 Wyoming Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 234-0540
FAX: [1] (202) 332-6315
consulate(s) general: Houston, New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Marcia S. BERNICAT
embassy: Avenue Jean XXIII at the corner of Rue Kleber, Dakar
mailing address: B. P. 49, Dakar
telephone: [221] 33-829-2100
FAX: [221] 33-822-2991


Flag description:

three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), yellow, and red
with a small green five-pointed star centered in the yellow band;
uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia


Economy
Senegal



Economy - overview:

In January 1994, Senegal undertook a bold and ambitious economic
reform program with the support of the international donor
community. This reform began with a 50% devaluation of Senegal's
currency, the CFA franc, which was linked at a fixed rate to the
French franc. Government price controls and subsidies have been
steadily dismantled. After seeing its economy contract by 2.1% in
1993, Senegal made an important turnaround, thanks to the reform
program, with real growth in GDP averaging over 5% annually during
1995-2007. Annual inflation had been pushed down to the low single
digits. As a member of the West African Economic and Monetary Union
(WAEMU), Senegal is working toward greater regional integration with
a unified external tariff and a more stable monetary policy. High
unemployment, however, continues to prompt illegal migrants to flee
Senegal in search of better job opportunities in Europe. Senegal was
also beset by an energy crisis that caused widespread blackouts in
2006 and 2007. The phosphate industry has struggled for two years to
secure capital, and reduced output has directly impacted GDP. In
2007, Senegal signed agreements for major new mining concessions for
iron, zircon, and gold with foreign companies. Firms from Dubai have
agreed to manage and modernize Dakar's maritime port, and create a
new special economic zone. Senegal still relies heavily upon outside
donor assistance. Under the IMF's Highly Indebted Poor Countries
(HIPC) debt relief program, Senegal has benefited from eradication
of two-thirds of its bilateral, multilateral, and private-sector
debt. In 2007, Senegal and the IMF agreed to a new, non-disbursing,
Policy Support Initiative program.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$21.02 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$11.12 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

4.6% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$1,700 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 16%
industry: 19.4%
services: 64.6% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

4.85 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 77.5%
industry and services: 22.5% (2007 est.)


Unemployment rate:

48% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

54% (2001 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.7%
highest 10%: 33.4% (2001)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

41.3 (2001)


Investment (gross fixed):

25.2% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $2.614 billion
expenditures: $3.036 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

22.9% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

5.9% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

4.25% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

NA (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$2.842 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$1.579 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$2.97 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

peanuts, millet, corn, sorghum, rice, cotton, tomatoes, green
vegetables; cattle, poultry, pigs; fish


Industries:

agricultural and fish processing, phosphate mining, fertilizer
production, petroleum refining; iron ore, zircon, and gold mining,
construction materials, ship construction and repair


Industrial production growth rate:

5.2% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

2.28 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

1.657 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - consumption:

36,200 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

4,298 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

40,450 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

50 million cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

50 million cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

NA cu m


Natural gas - imports:

NA cu m


Natural gas - proved reserves:

NA cu m


Current account balance:

-$1.458 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$1.65 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

fish, groundnuts (peanuts), petroleum products, phosphates, cotton


Exports - partners:

Mali 18.9%, France 9.1%, Italy 5.9%, India 5.7%, Gambia, The 5.2%
(2007)


Imports:

$3.731 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

food and beverages, capital goods, fuels


Imports - partners:

France 22.2%, Netherlands 10%, China 7.4%, UK 6.2%, Thailand 5.2%,
Belgium 4.5% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$477 million (2007 est.)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$1.66 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$2.19 billion (31 December 2007)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note - responsible
authority is the Central Bank of the West African States


Currency code:

XOF


Exchange rates:

Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US dollar - 481.83
(2007), 522.89 (2006), 527.47 (2005), 528.29 (2004), 581.2 (2003)
note: since 1 January 1999, the XOF franc has been pegged to the
euro at a rate of 655.957 XOF francs per euro


Communications
Senegal



Telephones - main lines in use:

269,100 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

4.123 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: good system
domestic: above-average urban system with a fiber-optic network;
nearly two-thirds of all fixed-line connections are in Dakar where a
call-center industry is emerging; expansion of fixed-line services
in rural areas needed; mobile-cellular service is expanding rapidly;
microwave radio relay, coaxial cable and fiber-optic cable in trunk
system
international: country code - 221; the SAT-3/WASC fiber optic cable
provides connectivity to Europe and Asia while Atlantis-2 provides
connectivity to South America; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat
(Atlantic Ocean) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 8, FM 20, shortwave 1 (2001)


Radios:

1.24 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

4 (2007)


Televisions:

361,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.sn


Internet hosts:

217 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2002)


Internet users:

820,000 (2007)


Transportation
Senegal



Airports:

20 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 9
over 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 7
914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 11
1,524 to 2,437 m: 6
914 to 1,523 m: 4
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 43 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 906 km
narrow gauge: 906 km 1.000 meter gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 13,576 km
paved: 3,972 km (includes 7 km of expressways)
unpaved: 9,604 km (2003)


Waterways:

1,000 km (primarily on Senegal, Saloum, and Casamance rivers) (2005)


Ports and terminals:

Dakar


Military
Senegal



Military branches:

Army, Senegalese Navy (Marine Senegalaise), Senegalese Air Force
(Armee de l'Air du Senegal) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military service;
conscript service obligation - 2 years (2004)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,943,619
females age 16-49: 2,955,179 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,866,602
females age 16-49: 1,947,076 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 141,832
female: 139,541 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.4% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Senegal



Disputes - international:

The Gambia and Guinea-Bissau attempt to stem separatist violence,
cross border raids, and arms smuggling into their countries from
Senegal's Casamance region, and in 2006, respectively accepted 6,000
and 10,000 Casamance residents fleeing the conflict; 2,500
Guinea-Bissau residents fled into Senegal in 2006 to escape armed
confrontations along the border


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 19,630 (Mauritania)
IDPs: 22,400 (approximately 65% of the IDP population returned in
2005, but new displacement is occurring due to clashes between
government troops and separatists in Casamance region) (2007)


Illicit drugs:

transshipment point for Southwest and Southeast Asian heroin and
South American cocaine moving to Europe and North America; illicit
cultivator of cannabis



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Serbia

Introduction
Serbia



Background:

The Kingdom of Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes was formed in 1918; its
name was changed to Yugoslavia in 1929. Various paramilitary bands
resisted Nazi Germany's occupation and division of Yugoslavia from
1941 to 1945, but fought each other and ethnic opponents as much as
the invaders. The military and political movement headed by Josip
TITO (Partisans) took full control of Yugoslavia when German and
Croatian separatist forces were defeated in 1945. Although
Communist, TITO's new government and his successors (he died in
1980) managed to steer their own path between the Warsaw Pact
nations and the West for the next four and a half decades. In 1989,
Slobodan MILOSEVIC became president of the Serbian Republic and his
ultranationalist calls for Serbian domination led to the violent
breakup of Yugoslavia along ethnic lines. In 1991, Croatia,
Slovenia, and Macedonia declared independence, followed by Bosnia in
1992. The remaining republics of Serbia and Montenegro declared a
new Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) in April 1992 and under
MILOSEVIC's leadership, Serbia led various military campaigns to
unite ethnic Serbs in neighboring republics into a "Greater Serbia."
These actions led to Yugoslavia being ousted from the UN in 1992,
but Serbia continued its - ultimately unsuccessful - campaign until
signing the Dayton Peace Accords in 1995. MILOSEVIC kept tight
control over Serbia and eventually became president of the FRY in
1997. In 1998, an ethnic Albanian insurgency in the formerly
autonomous Serbian province of Kosovo provoked a Serbian
counterinsurgency campaign that resulted in massacres and massive
expulsions of ethnic Albanians living in Kosovo. The MILOSEVIC
government's rejection of a proposed international settlement led to
NATO's bombing of Serbia in the spring of 1999 and to the eventual
withdrawal of Serbian military and police forces from Kosovo in June
1999. UNSC Resolution 1244 in June 1999 authorized the stationing of
a NATO-led force (KFOR) in Kosovo to provide a safe and secure
environment for the region's ethnic communities, created a UN
interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) to foster
self-governing institutions, and reserved the issue of Kosovo's
final status for an unspecified date in the future. In 2001, UNMIK
promulgated a constitutional framework that allowed Kosovo to
establish institutions of self-government and led to Kosovo's first
parliamentary election. FRY elections in September 2000 led to the
ouster of MILOSEVIC and installed Vojislav KOSTUNICA as president. A
broad coalition of democratic reformist parties known as DOS (the
Democratic Opposition of Serbia) was subsequently elected to
parliament in December 2000 and took control of the government. DOS
arrested MILOSEVIC in 2001 and allowed for him to be tried in The
Hague for crimes against humanity. (MILOSEVIC died in March 2006
before the completion of his trial.) In 2001, the country's
suspension from the UN was lifted. In 2003, the FRY became Serbia
and Montenegro, a loose federation of the two republics with a
federal level parliament. Widespread violence predominantly
targeting ethnic Serbs in Kosovo in March 2004 caused the
international community to open negotiations on the future status of
Kosovo in January 2006. In May 2006, Montenegro invoked its right to
secede from the federation and - following a successful referendum -
it declared itself an independent nation on 3 June 2006. Two days
later, Serbia declared that it was the successor state to the union
of Serbia and Montenegro. A new Serbian constitution was approved in
October 2006 and adopted the following month. After 15 months of
inconclusive negotiations mediated by the UN and four months of
further inconclusive negotiations mediated by the US, EU, and
Russia, on 17 February 2008, the UNMIK-administered province of
Kosovo declared itself independent of Serbia.


Geography
Serbia



Location:

Southeastern Europe, between Macedonia and Hungary


Geographic coordinates:

44 00 N, 21 00 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 77,474 sq km
land: 77,474 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than South Carolina


Land boundaries:

total: 2,026 km
border countries: Bosnia and Herzegovina 302 km, Bulgaria 318 km,
Croatia 241 km, Hungary 151 km, Kosovo 352 km, Macedonia 62 km,
Montenegro 124 km, Romania 476 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

in the north, continental climate (cold winters and hot, humid
summers with well distributed rainfall); in other parts, continental
and Mediterranean climate (relatively cold winters with heavy
snowfall and hot, dry summers and autumns)


Terrain:

extremely varied; to the north, rich fertile plains; to the east,
limestone ranges and basins; to the southeast, ancient mountains and
hills


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: NA
highest point: Midzor 2,169 m


Natural resources:

oil, gas, coal, iron ore, copper, zinc, antimony, chromite, gold,
silver, magnesium, pyrite, limestone, marble, salt, arable land


Land use:

arable land: NA
permanent crops: NA
other: NA


Irrigated land:

NA


Total renewable water resources:

208.5 cu km (note - includes Kosovo) (2003)


Natural hazards:

destructive earthquakes


Environment - current issues:

air pollution around Belgrade and other industrial cities; water
pollution from industrial wastes dumped into the Sava which flows
into the Danube


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of
the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

controls one of the major land routes from Western Europe to Turkey
and the Near East


People
Serbia



Population:

10,159,046
note: all population data includes Kosovo (July 2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 37.5 years
male: 36.1 years
female: 39 years (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 75.29 years
male: 72.7 years
female: 78.09 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.69 children born/woman (2008 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: intermediate
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A
vectorborne disease: Crimean Congo hemorrhagic fever
note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Serb(s)
adjective: Serbian


Ethnic groups:

Serb 82.9%, Hungarian 3.9%, Romany (Gypsy) 1.4%, Yugoslavs 1.1%,
Bosniaks 1.8%, Montenegrin 0.9%, other 8% (2002 census)


Religions:

Serbian Orthodox 85%, Catholic 5.5%, Protestant 1.1%, Muslim 3.2%,
unspecified 2.6%, other, unknown, or atheist 2.6% (2002 census)


Languages:

Serbian 88.3% (official), Hungarian 3.8%, Bosniak 1.8%, Romany
(Gypsy) 1.1%, other 4.1%, unknown 0.9% (2002 census)
note: Romanian, Hungarian, Slovak, Ukrainian, and Croatian all
official in Vojvodina


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 96.4%
male: 98.9%
female: 94.1% (2003 census)
note: includes Montenegro


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Serbia



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Serbia
conventional short form: Serbia
local long form: Republika Srbija
local short form: Srbija
former: People's Republic of Serbia, Socialist Republic of Serbia


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Belgrade (Beograd)
geographic coordinates: 44 50 N, 20 30 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

161 municipalities (opcstine, singular - opcstina)
Serbia Proper: Beograd: Barajevo, Cukavica, Grocka, Lazarevac,
Mladnovac, Novi Beograd, Obrenovac, Palilula, Rakovica, Savski
Venac, Sopot, Stari Grad, Surcin, Vozdovac, Vracar, Zemun, Zrezdara;
Borski Okrug: Bor, Kladovo, Majdanpek, Negotin; Branicevski Okrug:
Golubac, Kucevo, Malo Crnice, Petrovac, Pozarevac, Veliko Gradiste,
Zabari, Zagubica; Jablanicki Okrug: Bojnik, Crna Trava, Lebane,
Leskovac, Medvedja, Vlasotince; Kolubarski Okrug: Lajkovac, Ljig,
Mionica, Osecina, Ub, Valjevo; Macvanski Okrug: Bogatic, Koceljeva,
Krupanj, Ljubovija, Loznica, Mali Zvornik, Sabac, Vladimirci;
Moravicki Okrug: Cacak, Gornkji Milanovac, Ivanjica, Lucani;
Nisavski Okrug: Aleksinac, Doljevac, Gadzin Han, Merosina, Nis,
Razanj, Svrljig; Pcinjski Okrug: Bosilegrad, Bujanovac, Presevo,
Surdulica, Trgoviste, Vladicin Han, Vranje; Pirotski Okrug:
Babusnica, Bela Palanka, Dimitrovgrad, Pirot; Podunavski Okrug:
Smederevo, Smederevskia Palanka, Velika Plana; Pomoravski Okrug:
Cuprija, Despotovac, Jagodina, Paracin, Rckovac, Svilajnac; Rasinski
Okrug: Aleksandrovac, Brus, Cicevac, Krusevac, Trstenik, Varvarin;
Raski Okrug: Kraljevo, Novi Pazar, Raska, Tutin, Vrnjacka Banja;
Sumadijski Okrug: Arandjelovac, Batocina, Knic, Kragujevac, Lapovo,
Raca, Topola; Toplicki Okrug: Blace, Kursumlija, Prokuplje,
Zitoradja; Zajecarski Okrug: Boljevac, Knjazevac, Sokobanja,
Zalecar; Zlatiborski Okrug: Arilje, Bajina Basta, Cajetina,
Kosjeric, Nova Varos, Pozega, Priboj, Prijepolje, Sjenica, Uzice
Vojvodina Autonomous Province: Juzno-Backi Okrug: Backi Petrovac,
Beocin, Novi Sad, Sremski Karlovci, Temerin, Titel, Zabalj; Juzno
Banatski Okrug: Alibunar, Bela Crkva, Kovacica, Kovin, Opovo,
Pancevo, Plandiste, Vrsac; Severno-Backi Okrug: Backa Topola, Mali
Idjos, Subotica; Severno-Banatski Okrug: Ada, Coka, Kanjiza,
Kikinda, Novi Knezevac, Senta; Srednje-Banatski Okrug: Nova Crnja,
Novi Becej, Secanj, Zitiste, Zrenjanin; Sremski Okrug: Indjija,
Irig, Pecinci, Ruma, Sid, Sremska Mitrovica, Stara Pazova;
Zapadno-Backi Okrug: Apatin, Kula, Odzaci, Sombor


Independence:

5 June 2006 (from Serbia and Montenegro)


National holiday:

National Day, 15 February


Constitution:

adopted 8 November 2006; effective 10 November 2006


Legal system:

based on civil law system


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Boris TADIC (since 11 July 2004)
head of government: Prime Minister Mirko CVETKOVIC (since 7 July
2008)
cabinet: Federal Ministries act as cabinet
elections: president elected by direct vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 3 February 2008
(next to be held in 2013); prime minister elected by the Assembly
election results: Boris TADIC elected president in the second round
of voting; Boris TADIC received 51.2% of the vote and Tomislav
NIKOLIC 48.8%


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly (250 seats; deputies elected by direct
vote to serve four-year terms)
elections: last held on 11 May 2008 (next to be held in May 2012)
election results: percent of vote by party - For a European Serbia
coalition 38.4%, SRS 29.5%, DSS-NS 11.6%, coalition led by the SPS
7.6%, LPD 5.2%, other 7.7%; seats by party - For a European Serbia
102, SRS 78, DSS-NS 30, coalition led by the SPS 20, LDP 13, other
7; note - the seat allocation for the SNS is uncertain because of an
ongoing dispute with the SRS


Judicial branch:

Constitutional Court, Supreme Court (to become court of cassation
under new constitution), appellate courts, district courts,
municipal courts


Political parties and leaders:

Coalition of Albanians of the Presevo Valley or KAPD [Riza HALIMI];
Coalition for Sandzak or KZS [Sulejman UGLJANIN]; Democratic Party
of Albanians or PDSh [Ragmi MUSTAFA]; Democratic Party of Serbia or
DSS [Vojislav KOSTUNICA]; Democratic Party or DS [Boris TADIC];
Democratic Union of the Valley or BDL [Skender DESTANI]; For a
European Serbia [Boris TADIC]; Force of Serbia Movement or PSS
[Bogoljub KARIC]; G17 Plus [Mladjan DINKIC]; League of Vojvodina
Hungarians or SVM [Istvan PASTOR]; Liberal Democratic Party or LDP
[Cedomir JOVANOVIC]; Movement for Democratic Progress or LPD [Jonuz
MUSLIU]; New Serbia or NS [Velimir ILIC]; Party of Democratic Action
or PVD [Riza HALIMI]; Roma Party or RP [Srdjan SAJN]; Serbian
Progressive Party or SNS [Tomislav NIKOLIC]; Serbian Radical Party
or SRS [Vojislav SESELJ (currently on trial at The Hague), but
Tomislav NIKOLIC is acting leader]; Socialist Party of Serbia or SPS
[Ivica DACIC]; Union of Roma of Serbia or URS [Rajko DJURIC]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

BSEC, CE, CEI, EAPC, EBRD, FAO, G-9, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt,
ICRM, IDA, IFAD (suspended), IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO,
Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MONUC, NAM
(observer), OAS (observer), OIF (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PCA, PFP,
SECI, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU,
WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Ivan VUJACIC
chancery: 2134 Kalorama Road NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 332-0333
FAX: [1] (202) 332-3933
consulate(s) general: Chicago, New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Cameron MUNTER
embassy: Kneza Milosa 50, 11000 Belgrade
mailing address: 5070 Belgrade Place, Washington, DC 20521-5070
telephone: [381] (11) 361-9344
FAX: [381] (11) 361-8230


Flag description:

three equal horizontal stripes of red (top), blue, and white;
charged with the coat of arms of Serbia shifted slightly to the
hoist side


Economy
Serbia



Economy - overview:

MILOSEVIC-era mismanagement of the economy, an extended period of
economic sanctions, and the damage to Yugoslavia's infrastructure
and industry during the NATO airstrikes in 1999 left the economy
only half the size it was in 1990. After the ousting of former
Federal Yugoslav President MILOSEVIC in September 2000, the
Democratic Opposition of Serbia (DOS) coalition government
implemented stabilization measures and embarked on a market reform
program. After renewing its membership in the IMF in December 2000,
a down-sized Yugoslavia continued to reintegrate into the
international community by rejoining the World Bank (IBRD) and the
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD). A World
Bank-European Commission sponsored Donors' Conference held in June
2001 raised $1.3 billion for economic restructuring. In November
2001, the Paris Club agreed to reschedule the country's $4.5 billion
public debt and wrote off 66% of the debt. In July 2004, the London
Club of private creditors forgave $1.7 billion of debt just over
half the total owed. Belgrade has made only minimal progress in
restructuring and privatizing its holdings in major sectors of the
economy, including energy and telecommunications. It has made
halting progress towards EU membership and is currently pursuing a
Stabilization and Association Agreement with Brussels. Serbia is
also pursuing membership in the World Trade Organization.
Unemployment remains an ongoing political and economic problem.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$77.28 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$41.68 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

7.3% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$10,400 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 12.3%
industry: 24.2%
services: 63.5% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

2.961 million (2002 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 30%
industry: 46%
services: 24% (2002)


Unemployment rate:

18.8% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

6.5% (2007 est.)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

30 (2003)


Investment (gross fixed):

20.1% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $9.6 billion
expenditures: $9.8 billion (2007 est.)


Public debt:

37% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

6.8% (2007)


Central bank discount rate:

9.57% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

11.13% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$4.632 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$12.19 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$13.44 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

wheat, maize, sugar beets, sunflower, raspberries, beef, pork, milk


Industries:

sugar, agricultural machinery, electrical and communication
equipment, paper and pulp, lead, transportation equipment


Industrial production growth rate:

1.8% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

33.87 billion kWh (2004)


Electricity - consumption:

NA kWh


Electricity - exports:

12.05 billion kWh (2004 est.)


Electricity - imports:

11.23 billion kWh (2004)


Oil - production:

11,410 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

85,000 bbl/day (2003 est.)


Oil - exports:

NA bbl/day


Oil - imports:

NA bbl/day


Oil - proved reserves:

77.5 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

650 million cu m (2005 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

2.55 billion cu m (2005 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2005 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

2.1 billion cu m (2004 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

48.14 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$6.889 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$8.824 billion (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

manufactured goods, food and live animals, machinery and transport
equipment


Imports:

$18.35 billion (2007 est.)


Economic aid - recipient:

$2 billion pledged in 2001 to Serbia and Montenegro (disbursements
to follow over several years; some aid pledged by EU and US has been
placed on hold because of lack of cooperation by Serbia in handing
over General Ratko MLADIC to the criminal court in The Hague)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$14.22 billion (2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$26.24 billion (includes debt for Montenegro and Kosovo) (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$11.95 billion (2006 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$5.409 billion (2005)


Currency (code):

Serbian dinar (RSD)


Exchange rates:

Serbian dinars (RSD) per US dollar - 54.5 (2007), 59.98 (2006)


Communications
Serbia



Telephones - main lines in use:

2.993 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

8.453 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: modernization of the telecommunications network
has been slow as a result of damage stemming from the 1999 war and
transition to a competitive market-based system; network was only
65% digitalized in 2005
domestic: teledensity remains below the average for neighboring
states; GSM wireless service, available through multiple providers
with national coverage, is growing very rapidly; best
telecommunications service limited to urban centers
international: country code - 381


Radio broadcast stations:

153 (station types NA) (2001)


Internet country code:

.rs


Internet hosts:

NA


Internet users:

1.5 million (2007)


Transportation
Serbia



Airports:

39 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 16
over 3,047 m: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 4
1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
914 to 1,523 m: 2
under 914 m: 4 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 23
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 9
under 914 m: 12 (2007)


Heliports:

2 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 1,921 km; oil 393 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 3,379 km
standard gauge: 3,379 km 1.435-m gauge (electrified 1,254 km) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 36,875 km
paved: 31,392 km
unpaved: 5,483 km
note: roadways in Kosovo listed separately (2006)


Waterways:

587 km (primarily on Danube and Sava rivers) (2005)


Military
Serbia



Military branches:

Serbian Armed Forces (Vojska Srbije, VS): Land Forces Command
(includes Riverine Component, consisting of a river flotilla on the
Danube), Joint Operations Command, Air and Air Defense Forces
Command (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

19-35 years of age for compulsory military service; under a state of
war or impending war, conscription can begin at age 16; conscription
is to be abolished in 2010; 9-month service obligation, with a
reserve obligation to age 60 for men and 50 for women (2007)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 66,263
female: 62,165 (2008 est.)


Transnational Issues
Serbia



Disputes - international:

Serbia with several other states protest the U.S. and other states'
recognition of Kosovo's declaring itself as a sovereign and
independent state in February 2008; ethnic Serbian municipalities
along Kosovo's northern border challenge final status of
Kosovo-Serbia boundary; several thousand NATO-led KFOR peacekeepers
under UNMIK authority continue to keep the peace within Kosovo
between the ethnic Albanian majority and the Serb minority in
Kosovo; Serbia delimited about half of the boundary with Bosnia and
Herzegovina, but sections along the Drina River remain in dispute


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 71,111 (Croatia); 27,414 (Bosnia and
Herzegovina); 206,000 (Kosovo), note - mostly ethnic Serbs and Roma
who fled Kosovo in 1999 (2007)


Illicit drugs:

transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin moving to Western
Europe on the Balkan route; economy vulnerable to money laundering



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Seychelles

Introduction
Seychelles



Background:

A lengthy struggle between France and Great Britain for the islands
ended in 1814, when they were ceded to the latter. Independence came
in 1976. Socialist rule was brought to a close with a new
constitution and free elections in 1993. President France-Albert
RENE, who had served since 1977, was re-elected in 2001, but stepped
down in 2004. Vice President James MICHEL took over the presidency
and in July 2006 was elected to a new five-year term.


Geography
Seychelles



Location:

archipelago in the Indian Ocean, northeast of Madagascar


Geographic coordinates:

4 35 S, 55 40 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 455 sq km
land: 455 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

2.5 times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

491 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin


Climate:

tropical marine; humid; cooler season during southeast monsoon (late
May to September); warmer season during northwest monsoon (March to
May)


Terrain:

Mahe Group is granitic, narrow coastal strip, rocky, hilly; others
are coral, flat, elevated reefs


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
highest point: Morne Seychellois 905 m


Natural resources:

fish, copra, cinnamon trees


Land use:

arable land: 2.17%
permanent crops: 13.04%
other: 84.79% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

lies outside the cyclone belt, so severe storms are rare; short
droughts possible


Environment - current issues:

water supply depends on catchments to collect rainwater


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

41 granitic and about 75 coralline islands


People
Seychelles



Population:

82,247 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 24.9% (male 10,337/female 10,108)
15-64 years: 69.1% (male 27,752/female 29,048)
65 years and over: 6.1% (male 1,575/female 3,427) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 28.7 years
male: 27.6 years
female: 29.8 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.428% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

15.6 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

6.21 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-5.11 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.96 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.46 male(s)/female
total population: 0.93 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 14.36 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 18.18 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 10.42 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 72.6 years
male: 67.27 years
female: 78.1 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.73 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Seychellois (singular and plural)
adjective: Seychellois


Ethnic groups:

mixed French, African, Indian, Chinese, and Arab


Religions:

Roman Catholic 82.3%, Anglican 6.4%, Seventh Day Adventist 1.1%,
other Christian 3.4%, Hindu 2.1%, Muslim 1.1%, other non-Christian
1.5%, unspecified 1.5%, none 0.6% (2002 census)


Languages:

Creole 91.8%, English 4.9% (official), other 3.1%, unspecified 0.2%
(2002 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 91.8%
male: 91.4%
female: 92.3% (2002 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 15 years
male: 14 years
female: 15 years (2007)


Education expenditures:

6.5% of GDP (2006)


Government
Seychelles



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Seychelles
conventional short form: Seychelles
local long form: Republic of Seychelles
local short form: Seychelles


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Victoria
geographic coordinates: 4 38 S, 55 27 E
time difference: UTC+4 (9 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

23 administrative districts; Anse aux Pins, Anse Boileau, Anse
Etoile, Anse Louis, Anse Royale, Baie Lazare, Baie Sainte Anne, Beau
Vallon, Bel Air, Bel Ombre, Cascade, Glacis, Grand' Anse (on Mahe),
Grand' Anse (on Praslin), La Digue, La Riviere Anglaise, Mont
Buxton, Mont Fleuri, Plaisance, Pointe La Rue, Port Glaud, Saint
Louis, Takamaka


Independence:

29 June 1976 (from UK)


National holiday:

Constitution Day (National Day), 18 June (1993)


Constitution:

18 June 1993


Legal system:

based on English common law, French civil law, and customary law;
has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

17 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President James Alix MICHEL (since 14 April 2004);
note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government
head of government: President James MICHEL (since 14 April 2004)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for two more terms); election last held 28-30 July 2006
(next to be held in 2011)
election results: President James MICHEL elected president; percent
of vote - James MICHEL 53.73%, Wavel RAMKALAWAN 45.71%, Philippe
BOULLE 0.56%; note - this was the first election in which President
James MICHEL participated; he was originally sworn in as president
after former president France Albert RENE stepped down in April 2004


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale (34 seats; 25
members elected by popular vote, 9 allocated on a proportional basis
to parties winning at least 10% of the vote; to serve five-year
terms)
elections: last held 10-12 May 2007 (next to be held in 2012)
election results: percent of vote by party - SPPF 56.2%, SNP 43.8%;
seats by party - SPPF 23, SNP 11


Judicial branch:

Court of Appeal; Supreme Court; judges for both courts are appointed
by the president


Political parties and leaders:

Democratic Party or DP [James MANCHAM, Paul CHOW]; Seychelles
National Party or SNP [Wavel RAMKALAWAN] (formerly the United
Opposition or UO); Seychelles People's Progressive Front or SPPF
[France Albert RENE, James MICHEL] (the governing party)


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Roman Catholic Church
other: trade unions


International organization participation:

ACP, AfDB, AU, C, COMESA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt
(signatory), ICRM, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, InOC, Interpol,
IOC, ISO (correspondent), ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OIF, OPCW, SADC, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
(observer)


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Jean Ronald JUMEAU
chancery: 800 Second Avenue, Suite 400C, New York, NY 10017
telephone: [1] (212) 972-1785
FAX: [1] (212) 972-1786


Diplomatic representation from the US:

the US does not have an embassy in Seychelles; the ambassador to
Mauritius is accredited to Seychelles


Flag description:

five oblique bands of blue (hoist side), yellow, red, white, and
green (bottom) radiating from the bottom of the hoist side


Economy
Seychelles



Economy - overview:

Since independence in 1976, per capita output in this Indian Ocean
archipelago has expanded to roughly seven times the
pre-independence, near-subsistence level, moving the island into the
upper-middle income group of countries. Growth has been led by the
tourist sector, which employs about 30% of the labor force and
provides more than 70% of hard currency earnings, and by tuna
fishing. In recent years, the government has encouraged foreign
investment to upgrade hotels and other services. At the same time,
the government has moved to reduce the dependence on tourism by
promoting the development of farming, fishing, and small-scale
manufacturing. Sharp drops illustrated the vulnerability of the
tourist sector in 1991-92 due largely to the Gulf War and once again
following the 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks on the US.
Economic growth slowed in 1998-2002 and fell in 2003-04, due to
sluggish tourist and tuna sectors, but resumed in 2005-07. Real GDP
grew by 5.8% in 2007, driven by tourism and a boom in
tourism-related construction. The Seychelles rupee was allowed to
depreciate in 2006 after being overvalued for years and fell by 10%
in the first 9 months of 2007.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$1.378 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$710 million (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

5.3% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$16,600 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 2.1%
industry: 28.3%
services: 69.6% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

39,560 (2006)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 3%
industry: 23%
services: 74% (2006)


Unemployment rate:

2% (2006 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Investment (gross fixed):

8.9% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $372.3 million
expenditures: $362.2 million (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

92.3% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

5.3% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

5.13% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

10.89% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$330.8 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$249 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$660.2 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

coconuts, cinnamon, vanilla, sweet potatoes, cassava (tapioca),
bananas; poultry; tuna


Industries:

fishing, tourism, processing of coconuts and vanilla, coir (coconut
fiber) rope, boat building, printing, furniture; beverages


Industrial production growth rate:

7% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

208 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

193.4 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

6,560 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2006)


Oil - imports:

5,722 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$272 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$395 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

canned tuna, frozen fish, cinnamon bark, copra, petroleum products
(reexports)


Exports - partners:

UK 23.7%, France 19.8%, Mauritius 10%, Japan 8.3%, Italy 5.7%, Spain
5.1% (2007)


Imports:

$823 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, foodstuffs, petroleum products, chemicals


Imports - partners:

Saudi Arabia 17.6%, Germany 10.8%, France 8.1%, Spain 7.6%, South
Africa 6.4%, Singapore 5.8% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$18.81 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$40.8 million (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$1.059 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Seychelles rupee (SCR)


Currency code:

SCR


Exchange rates:

Seychelles rupees (SCR) per US dollar - 6.5 (2007), 5.5 (2006), 5.5
(2005), 5.5 (2004), 5.4007 (2003)


Communications
Seychelles



Telephones - main lines in use:

22,700 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

77,300 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: effective system
domestic: combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity is
nearly 125 telephones per 100 persons; radiotelephone communications
between islands in the archipelago
international: country code - 248; direct radiotelephone
communications with adjacent island countries and African coastal
countries; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 2 (2001)


Radios:

42,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

2 (plus 9 repeaters) (1997)


Televisions:

11,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.sc


Internet hosts:

284 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

32,000 (2007)


Transportation
Seychelles



Airports:

15 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 9
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 6
under 914 m: 2 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 6
914 to 1,523 m: 2
under 914 m: 4 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 458 km
paved: 440 km
unpaved: 18 km (2003)


Merchant marine:

total: 8
by type: cargo 1, carrier 1, chemical tanker 6
foreign-owned: 3 (Hong Kong 1, Nigeria 1, South Africa 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Victoria


Military
Seychelles



Military branches:

Seychelles Defense Force: Army, Coast Guard (includes Naval Wing,
Air Wing), National Guard (2005)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service (younger with
parental consent); no conscription (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 23,598
females age 16-49: 24,424 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 17,942
females age 16-49: 20,436 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 770
female: 750 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

2% of GDP (2006 est.)


Transnational Issues
Seychelles



Disputes - international:

together with Mauritius, Seychelles claims the Chagos Archipelago
(UK-administered British Indian Ocean Territory)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Sierra Leone

Introduction
Sierra Leone



Background:

Democracy is slowly being reestablished after the civil war from
1991 to 2002 that resulted in tens of thousands of deaths and the
displacement of more than 2 million people (about one-third of the
population). The military, which took over full responsibility for
security following the departure of UN peacekeepers at the end of
2005, is increasingly developing as a guarantor of the country's
stability. The armed forces remained on the sideline during the 2007
presidential election, but still look to the UN Integrated Office in
Sierra Leone (UNIOSIL) - a civilian UN mission - to support efforts
to consolidate peace. The new government's priorities include
furthering development, creating jobs, and stamping out endemic
corruption.


Geography
Sierra Leone



Location:

Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean, between Guinea
and Liberia


Geographic coordinates:

8 30 N, 11 30 W


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 71,740 sq km
land: 71,620 sq km
water: 120 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than South Carolina


Land boundaries:

total: 958 km
border countries: Guinea 652 km, Liberia 306 km


Coastline:

402 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; hot, humid; summer rainy season (May to December); winter
dry season (December to April)


Terrain:

coastal belt of mangrove swamps, wooded hill country, upland
plateau, mountains in east


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Loma Mansa (Bintimani) 1,948 m


Natural resources:

diamonds, titanium ore, bauxite, iron ore, gold, chromite


Land use:

arable land: 7.95%
permanent crops: 1.05%
other: 91% (2005)


Irrigated land:

300 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

160 cu km (1987)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.38 cu km/yr (5%/3%/92%)
per capita: 69 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

dry, sand-laden harmattan winds blow from the Sahara (December to
February); sandstorms, dust storms


Environment - current issues:

rapid population growth pressuring the environment; overharvesting
of timber, expansion of cattle grazing, and slash-and-burn
agriculture have resulted in deforestation and soil exhaustion;
civil war depleted natural resources; overfishing


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea,
Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification


Geography - note:

rainfall along the coast can reach 495 cm (195 inches) a year,
making it one of the wettest places along coastal, western Africa


People
Sierra Leone



Population:

6,294,774 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 44.6% (male 1,377,981/female 1,429,993)
15-64 years: 52.2% (male 1,573,990/female 1,708,840)
65 years and over: 3.2% (male 94,359/female 109,611) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 17.5 years
male: 17.2 years
female: 17.8 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.282% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

45.08 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

22.26 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

0 migrant(s)/1,000 population
note: refugees currently in surrounding countries are slowly
returning (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 0.96 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.92 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.86 male(s)/female
total population: 0.94 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 156.48 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 173.59 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 138.85 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 40.93 years
male: 38.64 years
female: 43.28 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

5.95 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

7% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

170,000 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

11,000 (2001 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: malaria and yellow fever
water contact disease: schistosomiasis
aerosolized dust or soil contact disease: Lassa fever (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Sierra Leonean(s)
adjective: Sierra Leonean


Ethnic groups:

20 African ethnic groups 90% (Temne 30%, Mende 30%, other 30%),
Creole (Krio) 10% (descendants of freed Jamaican slaves who were
settled in the Freetown area in the late-18th century), refugees
from Liberia's recent civil war, small numbers of Europeans,
Lebanese, Pakistanis, and Indians


Religions:

Muslim 60%, Christian 10%, indigenous beliefs 30%


Languages:

English (official, regular use limited to literate minority), Mende
(principal vernacular in the south), Temne (principal vernacular in
the north), Krio (English-based Creole, spoken by the descendants of
freed Jamaican slaves who were settled in the Freetown area, a
lingua franca and a first language for 10% of the population but
understood by 95%)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write English, Mende,
Temne, or Arabic
total population: 35.1%
male: 46.9%
female: 24.4% (2004 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 7 years
male: 8 years
female: 6 years (2001)


Education expenditures:

3.8% of GDP (2005)


Government
Sierra Leone



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Sierra Leone
conventional short form: Sierra Leone
local long form: Republic of Sierra Leone
local short form: Sierra Leone


Government type:

constitutional democracy


Capital:

name: Freetown
geographic coordinates: 8 30 N, 13 15 W
time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

3 provinces and 1 area*; Eastern, Northern, Southern, Western*


Independence:

27 April 1961 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 27 April (1961)


Constitution:

1 October 1991; subsequently amended several times


Legal system:

based on English law and customary laws indigenous to local tribes;
has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Ernest Bai KOROMA (since 17 September
2007); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government
head of government: President Ernest Bai KOROMA (since 17 September
2007)
cabinet: Ministers of State appointed by the president with the
approval of the House of Representatives; the cabinet is responsible
to the president
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 11 August 2007 and
8 September 2007 (next to be held in 2012)
election results: second round results; percent of vote - Ernest Bai
KOROMA 54.6%, Solomon BEREWA 45.4%


Legislative branch:

unicameral Parliament (124 seats; 112 members elected by popular
vote, 12 filled by paramount chiefs elected in separate elections;
to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held on 11 August 2007 (next to be held in 2012)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
APC 59, SLPP 43, PMDC 10


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court; Appeals Court; High Court


Political parties and leaders:

All People's Congress or APC [Ernest Bai KOROMA]; Peace and
Liberation Party or PLP [Darlington MORRISON]; People's Movement for
Democratic Change or PMDC [Charles MARGAI]; Sierra Leone People's
Party or SLPP [Solomon BEREWA]; numerous others


Political pressure groups and leaders:

other: student unions; trade unions


International organization participation:

ACP, AfDB, AU, C, ECOWAS, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM,
IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU,
ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OIC, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIT,
UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Bockari Kortu STEVENS
chancery: 1701 19th Street NW, Washington, DC 20009
telephone: [1] (202) 939-9261 through 9263
FAX: [1] (202) 483-1793


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador June Carter PERRY
embassy: Southridge-Hill Station, Freetown
mailing address: use embassy street address
telephone: [232] (22) 515 000 or [232] (76) 515 000
FAX: [232] (22) 515 355


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of light green (top), white, and light
blue


Economy
Sierra Leone



Economy - overview:

Sierra Leone is an extremely poor nation with tremendous inequality
in income distribution. While it possesses substantial mineral,
agricultural, and fishery resources, its physical and social
infrastructure is not well developed, and serious social disorders
continue to hamper economic development. Nearly half of the
working-age population engages in subsistence agriculture.
Manufacturing consists mainly of the processing of raw materials and
of light manufacturing for the domestic market. Alluvial diamond
mining remains the major source of hard currency earnings accounting
for nearly half of Sierra Leone's exports. The fate of the economy
depends upon the maintenance of domestic peace and the continued
receipt of substantial aid from abroad, which is essential to offset
the severe trade imbalance and supplement government revenues. The
IMF has completed a Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility program
that helped stabilize economic growth and reduce inflation. A recent
increase in political stability has led to a revival of economic
activity such as the rehabilitation of bauxite and rutile mining.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$3.991 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$1.664 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

7% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$600 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 49%
industry: 31%
services: 21% (2001 est.)


Labor force:

1.369 million (1981 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: NA%
industry: NA%
services: NA%


Unemployment rate:

NA%


Population below poverty line:

70.2% (2004)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 0.5%
highest 10%: 43.6% (1989)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

62.9 (1989)


Budget:

revenues: $96 million
expenditures: $351 million (2000 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

11.7% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

NA (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

25% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$184.6 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$177.7 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$162.9 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

rice, coffee, cocoa, palm kernels, palm oil, peanuts; poultry,
cattle, sheep, pigs; fish


Industries:

diamond mining; small-scale manufacturing (beverages, textiles,
cigarettes, footwear); petroleum refining, small commercial ship
repair


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

250 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

232.5 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0.7008 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

8,430 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

432.3 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

8,271 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$63 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$216 million f.o.b. (2006)


Exports - commodities:

diamonds, rutile, cocoa, coffee, fish


Exports - partners:

Belgium 49.3%, US 20.5%, Netherlands 4.5%, Canada 4.1% (2007)


Imports:

$560 million f.o.b. (2006)


Imports - commodities:

foodstuffs, machinery and equipment, fuels and lubricants, chemicals


Imports - partners:

Cote d'Ivoire 10%, China 10%, US 9.5%, UK 6.2%, Netherlands 5.1%,
India 4.7% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$343.4 million (2005 est.)


Debt - external:

$1.61 billion (2003 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

leone (SLL)


Currency code:

SLL


Exchange rates:

leones (SLL) per US dollar - NA (2007), 2,961.7 (2006), 2,889.6
(2005), 2,701.3 (2004), 2,347.9 (2003)


Communications
Sierra Leone



Telephones - main lines in use:

24,000 (2002)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

776,000 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: marginal telephone service
domestic: the national microwave radio relay trunk system connects
Freetown to Bo and Kenema; mobile-cellular service is growing
rapidly from a small base
international: country code - 232; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 9, shortwave 1 (2001)


Radios:

1.12 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

2 (1999)


Televisions:

53,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.sl


Internet hosts:

8 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2001)


Internet users:

13,000 (2007)


Transportation
Sierra Leone



Airports:

10 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
over 3,047 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 9
914 to 1,523 m: 7
under 914 m: 2 (2007)


Heliports:

2 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 11,300 km
paved: 904 km
unpaved: 10,396 km (2002)


Waterways:

800 km (600 km year round) (2005)


Merchant marine:

total: 182
by type: bulk carrier 4, cargo 143, carrier 2, chemical tanker 3,
container 6, liquefied gas 2, passenger 1, passenger/cargo 6,
petroleum tanker 10, roll on/roll off 3, specialized tanker 2
foreign-owned: 95 (Belgium 1, China 15, Egypt 3, Greece 1, Hong Kong
1, Lebanon 1, Nigeria 1, Panama 1, Romania 3, Russia 11, Syria 18,
Taiwan 1, Turkey 15, Ukraine 10, UAE 8, UK 2, US 1, Yemen 2) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Freetown, Pepel, Sherbro Islands


Military
Sierra Leone



Military branches:

Republic of Sierra Leone Armed Forces (RSLAF): Army (includes Navy
(Maritime Wing), Air Wing) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

17 years 6 months of age for voluntary military service (younger
with parental consent); no conscription (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,315,561 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 671,418 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 70,068
female: 73,930 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

2.3% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Sierra Leone



Disputes - international:

as domestic fighting among disparate ethnic groups, rebel groups,
warlords, and youth gangs in Cote d'Ivoire, Guinea, Liberia, and
Sierra Leone gradually abate, the number of refugees in border areas
has begun to slowly dwindle; UN Mission in Sierra Leone (UNAMSIL)
has maintained over 4,000 peacekeepers in Sierra Leone since 1999;
Sierra Leone considers excessive Guinea's definition of the flood
plain limits to define the left bank boundary of the Makona and Moa
rivers and protests Guinea's continued occupation of these lands
including the hamlet of Yenga occupied since 1998


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 27,311 (Liberia) (2007)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Singapore

Introduction
Singapore



Background:

Singapore was founded as a British trading colony in 1819. It joined
the Malaysian Federation in 1963 but separated two years later and
became independent. Singapore subsequently became one of the world's
most prosperous countries with strong international trading links
(its port is one of the world's busiest in terms of tonnage handled)
and with per capita GDP equal to that of the leading nations of
Western Europe.


Geography
Singapore



Location:

Southeastern Asia, islands between Malaysia and Indonesia


Geographic coordinates:

1 22 N, 103 48 E


Map references:

Southeast Asia


Area:

total: 692.7 sq km
land: 682.7 sq km
water: 10 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly more than 3.5 times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

193 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 3 nm
exclusive fishing zone: within and beyond territorial sea, as
defined in treaties and practice


Climate:

tropical; hot, humid, rainy; two distinct monsoon seasons -
Northeastern monsoon (December to March) and Southwestern monsoon
(June to September); inter-monsoon - frequent afternoon and early
evening thunderstorms


Terrain:

lowland; gently undulating central plateau contains water catchment
area and nature preserve


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Singapore Strait 0 m
highest point: Bukit Timah 166 m


Natural resources:

fish, deepwater ports


Land use:

arable land: 1.47%
permanent crops: 1.47%
other: 97.06% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Total renewable water resources:

0.6 cu km (1975)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.19 cu km/yr (45%/51%/4%)
per capita: 44 cu m/yr (1975)


Natural hazards:

NA


Environment - current issues:

industrial pollution; limited natural fresh water resources; limited
land availability presents waste disposal problems; seasonal
smoke/haze resulting from forest fires in Indonesia


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

focal point for Southeast Asian sea routes


People
Singapore



Population:

4,608,167 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 14.8% (male 353,333/female 329,005)
15-64 years: 76.5% (male 1,717,357/female 1,809,462)
65 years and over: 8.7% (male 177,378/female 221,632) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 38.4 years
male: 38 years
female: 38.8 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.135% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

8.99 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

4.53 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

6.88 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.08 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.07 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.95 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.8 male(s)/female
total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 2.3 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 2.51 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 2.08 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 81.89 years
male: 79.29 years
female: 84.68 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.08 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.2% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

4,100 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 200 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Singaporean(s)
adjective: Singapore


Ethnic groups:

Chinese 76.8%, Malay 13.9%, Indian 7.9%, other 1.4% (2000 census)


Religions:

Buddhist 42.5%, Muslim 14.9%, Taoist 8.5%, Hindu 4%, Catholic 4.8%,
other Christian 9.8%, other 0.7%, none 14.8% (2000 census)


Languages:

Mandarin 35%, English 23%, Malay 14.1%, Hokkien 11.4%, Cantonese
5.7%, Teochew 4.9%, Tamil 3.2%, other Chinese dialects 1.8%, other
0.9% (2000 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 92.5%
male: 96.6%
female: 88.6% (2000 census)


Education expenditures:

3.7% of GDP (2001)


Government
Singapore



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Singapore
conventional short form: Singapore
local long form: Republic of Singapore
local short form: Singapore


Government type:

parliamentary republic


Capital:

name: Singapore
geographic coordinates: 1 17 N, 103 51 E
time difference: UTC+8 (13 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

none


Independence:

9 August 1965 (from Malaysian Federation)


National holiday:

National Day, 9 August (1965)


Constitution:

3 June 1959; amended 1965 (based on preindependence State of
Singapore Constitution)


Legal system:

based on English common law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

21 years of age; universal and compulsory


Executive branch:

chief of state: President S R NATHAN (since 1 September 1999)
note: uses S R NATHAN but his full name and the one used in formal
communications is Sellapan RAMANATHAN
head of government: Prime Minister LEE Hsien Loong (since 12 August
2004); Senior Minister GOH Chok Tong (since 12 August 2004);
Minister Mentor LEE Kuan Yew (since 12 August 2004); Deputy Prime
Ministers Shunmugam JAYAKUMAR (since 12 August 2004) and WONG Kan
Seng (since 1 September 2005)
cabinet: appointed by president, responsible to parliament
elections: president elected by popular vote for six-year term;
appointed on 17 August 2005 (next election to be held by August
2011); following legislative elections, leader of majority party or
leader of majority coalition is usually appointed prime minister by
president; deputy prime ministers appointed by president
election results: Sellapan Rama (S R) NATHAN appointed president in
August 2005 after Presidential Elections Committee disqualified
three other would-be candidates; scheduled election not held


Legislative branch:

unicameral Parliament (84 seats; members elected by popular vote to
serve five-year terms); note - in addition, there are up to nine
nominated members; up to three losing opposition candidates who came
closest to winning seats may be appointed as "nonconstituency"
members
elections: last held on 6 May 2006 (next to be held by 2011)
election results: percent of vote by party - PAP 66.6%, WP 16.3%,
SDA 13%, SDP 4.1%; seats by party - PAP 82, WP 1, SDA 1


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (chief justice is appointed by the president with the
advice of the prime minister, other judges are appointed by the
president with the advice of the chief justice); Court of Appeals


Political parties and leaders:

People's Action Party or PAP [LEE Hsien Loong]; Singapore Democratic
Alliance or SDA [CHIAM See Tong]; Singapore Democratic Party or SDP
[CHEE Soon Juan]; Workers' Party or WP [Sylvia LIM Swee Lian]
note: SDA includes Singapore Justice Party or SJP, Singapore
National Malay Organization or PKMS, Singapore People's Party or SPP


Political pressure groups and leaders:

UNFEM [Saleeman ISMAIL]
other: investment companies; news organizations


International organization participation:

ADB, APEC, APT, ARF, ASEAN, BIS, C, CP, EAS, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICC, ICRM, IDA, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC,
IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNMIT, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador CHAN Heng Chee
chancery: 3501 International Place NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 537-3100
FAX: [1] (202) 537-0876
consulate(s) general: San Francisco
consulate(s): New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Patricia L. HERBOLD
embassy: 27 Napier Road, Singapore 258508
mailing address: FPO AP 96507-0001
telephone: [65] 6476-9100
FAX: [65] 6476-9340


Flag description:

two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and white; near the hoist
side of the red band, there is a vertical, white crescent (closed
portion is toward the hoist side) partially enclosing five white
five-pointed stars arranged in a circle


Economy
Singapore



Economy - overview:

Singapore has a highly developed and successful free-market economy.
It enjoys a remarkably open and corruption-free environment, stable
prices, and a per capita GDP equal to that of the four largest West
European countries. The economy depends heavily on exports,
particularly in consumer electronics and information technology
products. It was hard hit from 2001-03 by the global recession, by
the slump in the technology sector, and by an outbreak of Severe
Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) in 2003, which curbed tourism and
consumer spending. Fiscal stimulus, low interest rates, a surge in
exports, and internal flexibility led to vigorous growth in 2004-07
with real GDP growth averaging 7% annually. The government hopes to
establish a new growth path that will be less vulnerable to the
global demand cycle for information technology products - it has
attracted major investments in pharmaceuticals and medical
technology production - and will continue efforts to establish
Singapore as Southeast Asia's financial and high-tech hub.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$227.1 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$161.3 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

7.7% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$49,900 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 0%
industry: 31.2%
services: 68.8% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

2.751 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

manufacturing 21%, construction 5%, transportation and communication
7%, financial, business, and other services 42%, other 25% (2006)


Unemployment rate:

2.1% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 1.9%
highest 10%: 32.8% (1998)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

52.2 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

24.9% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $27 billion
expenditures: $21.5 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 April - 31 March


Public debt:

96.3% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.1% (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

5.33% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$44.4 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$162.2 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$129.2 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

rubber, copra, fruit, orchids, vegetables; poultry, eggs; fish,
ornamental fish


Industries:

electronics, chemicals, financial services, oil drilling equipment,
petroleum refining, rubber processing and rubber products, processed
food and beverages, ship repair, offshore platform construction,
life sciences, entrepot trade


Industrial production growth rate:

7.4% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

38.68 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

35.13 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

9,836 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

834,600 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

1.203 million bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

2.003 million bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

6.5 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

6.5 billion cu m
note: from Indonesia and Malaysia (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

$46.39 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$302.7 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

machinery and equipment (including electronics), consumer goods,
chemicals, mineral fuels


Exports - partners:

Malaysia 12.9%, Hong Kong 10.5%, Indonesia 9.8%, China 9.7%, US
8.9%, Japan 4.8%, Thailand 4.1% (2007)


Imports:

$252 billion (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, mineral fuels, chemicals, foodstuffs


Imports - partners:

Malaysia 13.1%, US 12.5%, China 12.1%, Japan 8.2%, Taiwan 5.9%,
Indonesia 5.6%, South Korea 4.9% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$0 (2007)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$163 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$25.59 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$214.5 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$111.2 billion (2005)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$382.4 billion (2007)


Currency (code):

Singapore dollar (SGD)


Currency code:

SGD


Exchange rates:

Singapore dollars (SGD) per US dollar - 1.507 (2007), 1.5889 (2006),
1.6644 (2005), 1.6902 (2004), 1.7422 (2003)


Communications
Singapore



Telephones - main lines in use:

1.859 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

5.619 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: excellent service
domestic: excellent domestic facilities; launched 3G wireless
service in February 2005; combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular
teledensity is about 165 telephones per 100 persons
international: country code - 65; numerous submarine cables provide
links throughout Asia, Australia, the Middle East, Europe, and US;
satellite earth stations -4; supplemented by VSAT coverage (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 0, FM 17, shortwave 2 (2003)


Radios:

2.6 million (2000)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (broadcasting on six channels); additional reception of numerous
UHF and VHF signals originating in Malaysia and Indonesia (2006)


Televisions:

1.33 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.sg


Internet hosts:

837,559 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

9 (2000)


Internet users:

3.105 million (2007)


Transportation
Singapore



Airports:

8 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 8
over 3,047 m: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 139 km; refined products 8 km (2007)


Roadways:

total: 3,262 km
paved: 3,262 km (includes 150 km of expressways) (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 1,292
by type: bulk carrier 167, cargo 87, carrier 5, chemical tanker 209,
container 273, liquefied gas 96, petroleum tanker 386, refrigerated
cargo 5, roll on/roll off 4, specialized tanker 7, vehicle carrier 53
foreign-owned: 774 (Australia 12, Bangladesh 2, Belgium 8, Chile 6,
China 14, Cyprus 1, Denmark 87, France 1, Germany 24, Greece 15,
Hong Kong 47, India 13, Indonesia 66, Italy 5, Japan 131, South
Korea 3, Malaysia 27, Norway 143, Slovenia 1, Sweden 20, Switzerland
2, Taiwan 72, Thailand 23, UAE 12, UK 17, US 22)
registered in other countries: 331 (Australia 1, Bahamas 17, Belize
2, Bolivia 1, Cambodia 4, Cayman Islands 10, Comoros 1, Cyprus 3,
Dominica 7, France 2, Honduras 12, Hong Kong 18, Indonesia 27, Isle
of Man 1, Kiribati 4, Liberia 32, Malaysia 16, Marshall Islands 18,
Mongolia 9, Norway 1, Panama 100, Philippines 1, Saint Kitts and
Nevis 1, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 4, Thailand 2, Tuvalu 23,
US 12, unknown 2) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Singapore


Transportation - note:

the International Maritime Bureau reports the territorial and
offshore waters in the South China Sea as high risk for piracy and
armed robbery against ships; numerous commercial vessels have been
attacked and hijacked both at anchor and while underway; hijacked
vessels are often disguised and cargo diverted to ports in East
Asia; crews have been murdered or cast adrift


Military
Singapore



Military branches:

Singapore Armed Forces: Army, Navy, Air Force (includes Air Defense)
(2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18-21 years of age for male compulsory military service; 16 years of
age for volunteers; 2-year conscript service obligation, with a
reserve obligation to age 40 (enlisted) or age 50 (officers) (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,277,862 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,038,603 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 27,742
female: 26,325 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

4.9% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Singapore



Disputes - international:

disputes persist with Malaysia over deliveries of fresh water to
Singapore, Singapore's extensive land reclamation works, bridge
construction, and maritime boundaries in the Johor and Singapore
Straits; in November 2007, the ICJ will hold public hearings as a
consequence of the Memorials and Countermemorials filed by the
parties in 2003 and 2005 over sovereignty of Pedra Branca
Island/Pulau Batu Puteh, Middle Rocks and South Ledge; Indonesia and
Singapore continue to work on finalization of their 1973 maritime
boundary agreement by defining unresolved areas north of Indonesia's
Batam Island; piracy remains a problem in the Malacca Strait


Illicit drugs:

drug abuse limited because of aggressive law enforcement efforts; as
a transportation and financial services hub, Singapore is
vulnerable, despite strict laws and enforcement, as a venue for
money laundering



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Slovakia

Introduction
Slovakia



Background:

The dissolution of the Austro-Hungarian Empire at the close of World
War I allowed the Slovaks to join the closely related Czechs to form
Czechoslovakia. Following the chaos of World War II, Czechoslovakia
became a Communist nation within Soviet-dominated Eastern Europe.
Soviet influence collapsed in 1989 and Czechoslovakia once more
became free. The Slovaks and the Czechs agreed to separate
peacefully on 1 January 1993. Slovakia joined both NATO and the EU
in the spring of 2004.


Geography
Slovakia



Location:

Central Europe, south of Poland


Geographic coordinates:

48 40 N, 19 30 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 48,845 sq km
land: 48,800 sq km
water: 45 sq km


Area - comparative:

about twice the size of New Hampshire


Land boundaries:

total: 1,474 km
border countries: Austria 91 km, Czech Republic 197 km, Hungary 676
km, Poland 420 km, Ukraine 90 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

temperate; cool summers; cold, cloudy, humid winters


Terrain:

rugged mountains in the central and northern part and lowlands in
the south


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Bodrok River 94 m
highest point: Gerlachovsky Stit 2,655 m


Natural resources:

brown coal and lignite; small amounts of iron ore, copper and
manganese ore; salt; arable land


Land use:

arable land: 29.23%
permanent crops: 2.67%
other: 68.1% (2005)


Irrigated land:

1,830 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

50.1 cu km (2003)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 1.04
per capita: 193 cu m/yr (2003)


Natural hazards:

NA


Environment - current issues:

air pollution from metallurgical plants presents human health risks;
acid rain damaging forests


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

landlocked; most of the country is rugged and mountainous; the Tatra
Mountains in the north are interspersed with many scenic lakes and
valleys


People
Slovakia



Population:

5,455,407 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 16.1% (male 448,083/female 427,643)
15-64 years: 71.7% (male 1,947,112/female 1,961,788)
65 years and over: 12.3% (male 250,787/female 419,994) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 36.5 years
male: 34.8 years
female: 38.2 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.143% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

10.64 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

9.5 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

0.3 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.6 male(s)/female
total population: 0.94 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 6.98 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 8.15 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 5.75 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 75.17 years
male: 71.23 years
female: 79.32 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.34 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

less than 0.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

fewer than 200 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 100 (2001 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Slovak(s)
adjective: Slovak


Ethnic groups:

Slovak 85.8%, Hungarian 9.7%, Roma 1.7%, Ruthenian/Ukrainian 1%,
other and unspecified 1.8% (2001 census)


Religions:

Roman Catholic 68.9%, Protestant 10.8%, Greek Catholic 4.1%, other
or unspecified 3.2%, none 13% (2001 census)


Languages:

Slovak (official) 83.9%, Hungarian 10.7%, Roma 1.8%, Ukrainian 1%,
other or unspecified 2.6% (2001 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99.6%
male: 99.7%
female: 99.6% (2001 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 15 years
male: 14 years
female: 15 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

3.9% of GDP (2005)


Government
Slovakia



Country name:

conventional long form: Slovak Republic
conventional short form: Slovakia
local long form: Slovenska Republika
local short form: Slovensko


Government type:

parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Bratislava
geographic coordinates: 48 09 N, 17 07 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

8 regions (kraje, singular - kraj); Banskobystricky, Bratislavsky,
Kosicky, Nitriansky, Presovsky, Trenciansky, Trnavsky, Zilinsky


Independence:

1 January 1993 (Czechoslovakia split into the Czech Republic and
Slovakia)


National holiday:

Constitution Day, 1 September (1992)


Constitution:

ratified 1 September 1992, effective 1 January 1993; changed in
September 1998 to allow direct election of the president; amended
February 2001 to allow Slovakia to apply for NATO and EU membership


Legal system:

civil law system based on Austro-Hungarian codes; accepts compulsory
ICJ jurisdiction with reservations; legal code modified to comply
with the obligations of Organization on Security and Cooperation in
Europe (OSCE) and to expunge Marxist-Leninist legal theory


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Ivan GASPAROVIC (since 15 June 2004)
head of government: Prime Minister Robert FICO (since 4 July 2006);
Deputy Prime Ministers Dusan CAPLOVIC, Robert KALINAK, Stefan
HARABIN, Jan MIKOLAJ (since 4 July 2006)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president on the recommendation of
the prime minister
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 3 April and 17
April 2004 (next to be held in April 2009); following National
Council elections, the leader of the majority party or the leader of
a majority coalition is usually appointed prime minister by the
president
election results: Ivan GASPAROVIC elected president in runoff;
percent of vote - Ivan GASPAROVIC 59.9%, Vladimir MECIAR 40.1%


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Council of the Slovak Republic or Narodna Rada
Slovenskej Republiky (150 seats; members are elected on the basis of
proportional representation to serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 17 June 2006 (next to be held in 2010)
election results: percent of vote by party - Smer 29.1%, SDKU 18.4%,
SMK 11.7%, SNS 11.7%, LS-HZDS 8.8%, KDH 8.3%, other 12%; seats by
party - Smer 50, SDKU 31, SMK 20, SNS 19, LS-HZDS 16, KDH 14


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (judges are elected by the National Council);
Constitutional Court (judges appointed by president from group of
nominees approved by the National Council); Special Court (judges
elected by a council of judges and appointed by president)


Political parties and leaders:

Parties in the Parliament: Christian Democratic Movement or KDH
[Pavol HRUSOVSKY]; Direction-Social Democracy or Smer-SD [Robert
FICO]; Party of the Hungarian Coalition or SMK [Pal CSAKY]; People's
Party - Movement for a Democratic Slovakia or LS-HZDS [Vladimir
MECIAR]; Slovak Democratic and Christian Union or SDKU-DS [Mikulas
DZURINDA]; Slovak National Party or SNS [Jan SLOTA]; Parties outside
the Parliament: Agrarian Party of the Provinces or ASV [Jozef
VASKEBA]; Civic Conservative Party or OKS [Peter TATAR]; Free Forum
[Zuzana MARTINAKOVA]; Hope or NADEJ [Alexandra NOVOTNA]; Left-wing
Bloc or LB [Jozef KALMAN]; Mission 21 - New Christian Democracy or
MISIA 21 [Ivan SIMKO]; Movement for Democracy or HZD [Jozef GRAPA];
New Citizens Alliance or ANO [Pavol RUSKO]; Party of the Democratic
Left or SDL [Ladislav KOZMON]; Prosperita Slovenska or PS [Frantisek
A. ZVRSKOVEC]; Slovak Communist Party or KSS [Vladimir DADO]; Slovak
National Coalition or SLNKO [Vitazoslav MORIC]; Slovak People's
Party or SLS [Jozef SASIK]; Union of the Workers of Slovakia or ZRS
[Jan LUPTAK]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Association of Towns and Villages or ZMOS; Confederation of Trade
Unions or KOZ; Entrepreneurs Association of Slovakia or ZPS;
Federation of Employers' Associations of the Slovak Republic;
National Union of Employers or RUZ; Slovak Chamber of Commerce and
Industry or SOPK; The Business Alliance of Slovakia or PAS


International organization participation:

Australia Group, BIS, BSEC (observer), CBSS (observer), CE, CEI,
CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EU, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM,
IDA, IEA, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU,
ISO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM (guest), NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer),
OECD, OIF (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PCA, Schengen Convention, SECI
(observer), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNIDO, UNTSO, UNWTO, UPU,
WCL, WCO, WEU (associate partner), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Peter BURIAN
chancery: 3523 International Court NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 237-1054
FAX: [1] (202) 237-6438
consulate(s) general: Los Angeles, New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Vincent OBSITNIK
embassy: Hviezdoslavovo Namestie 4, 81102 Bratislava
mailing address: P.O. Box 309, 814 99 Bratislava
telephone: [421] (2) 5443-3338
FAX: [421] (2) 5441-8861


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of white (top), blue, and red
superimposed with the coat of arms of Slovakia (consisting of a red
shield bordered in white and bearing a white Cross of Lorraine
surmounting three blue hills); the coat of arms is centered
vertically and offset slightly to the hoist side


Economy
Slovakia



Economy - overview:

Slovakia has mastered much of the difficult transition from a
centrally planned economy to a modern market economy. The DZURINDA
government made excellent progress during 2001-04 in macroeconomic
stabilization and structural reform. Major privatizations are nearly
complete, the banking sector is almost completely in foreign hands,
and the government has helped facilitate a foreign investment boom
with business friendly policies such as labor market liberalization
and a 19% flat tax. Foreign investment in the automotive sector has
been strong. Slovakia's economic growth exceeded expectations in
2001-07 despite the general European slowdown. Unemployment, at an
unacceptable 18% in 2003-04, dropped to 8.6% in 2007 but remains the
economy's Achilles heel. Slovakia joined the EU on 1 May 2004 and
will be the second of the new EU member states to adopt the euro in
2009 if it continues to meet euro adoption criteria in 2008. Despite
its 2006 pre-election promises to loosen fiscal policy and reverse
the previous DZURINDA government's pro-market reforms, FICO's
cabinet has thus far been careful to keep a lid on spending in order
to meet euro adoption criteria. The FICO government is pursuing a
state-interventionist economic policy, however, and has pushed to
regulate energy and food prices.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$110.2 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$74.99 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

10.4% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$20,200 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 2.6%
industry: 33.5%
services: 63.9% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

2.654 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture 5.8%, industry 29.3%, construction 9%, services 55.9%
(2003)


Unemployment rate:

8.4% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

21% (2002)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 3.1%
highest 10%: 20.9% (1996)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

26 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

25.7% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $34.34 billion
expenditures: $35.99 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

35.9% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.8% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

4.25% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

7.99% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$26.17 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$21.11 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$41.76 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

grains, potatoes, sugar beets, hops, fruit; pigs, cattle, poultry;
forest products


Industries:

metal and metal products; food and beverages; electricity, gas,
coke, oil, nuclear fuel; chemicals and manmade fibers; machinery;
paper and printing; earthenware and ceramics; transport vehicles;
textiles; electrical and optical apparatus; rubber products


Industrial production growth rate:

17.2% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

26.17 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

26 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

11.85 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

12.73 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 30.3%
hydro: 16%
nuclear: 53.6%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

12,770 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

82,860 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

72,240 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

134,100 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

9 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

128 million cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

6.216 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

180 million cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

6.268 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

14.16 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$3.998 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$57.53 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

vehicles 25.9%, machinery and electrical equipment 21.3%, base
metals 14.6%, chemicals and minerals 10.1%, plastics 5.4% (2004)


Exports - partners:

Germany 21.4%, Czech Republic 12.6%, France 6.7%, Italy 6.4%, Poland
6.2%, Hungary 6%, Austria 5.8%, UK 4.8% (2007)


Imports:

$58.4 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and transport equipment 41.1%, intermediate manufactured
goods 19.3%, fuels 12.3%, chemicals 9.8%, miscellaneous manufactured
goods 10.2% (2003)


Imports - partners:

Germany 22.1%, Czech Republic 17.3%, Russia 9.2%, Hungary 6.7%,
Austria 5.1%, Poland 4.9%, South Korea 4.7% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$235 million in available EU structural adjustment and cohesion
funds (2004)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$18.98 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$36.63 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$45.25 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$1.509 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$5.574 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

Slovak koruna (SKK)


Currency code:

SKK


Exchange rates:

Slovak koruny (SKK) per US dollar - 24.919 (2007), 29.611 (2006),
31.018 (2005), 32.257 (2004), 36.773 (2003)


Communications
Slovakia



Telephones - main lines in use:

1.151 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

6.068 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: Slovakia has a modern telecommunications system
that has expanded dramatically in recent years with the growth in
cellular services
domestic: analog system is now receiving digital equipment and is
being enlarged with fiber-optic cable, especially in the larger
cities; 3 companies provide nationwide cellular services
international: country code - 421; 3 international exchanges (1 in
Bratislava and 2 in Banska Bystrica) are available; Slovakia is
participating in several international telecommunications projects
that will increase the availability of external services


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 15, FM 78, shortwave 2 (1998)


Radios:

3.12 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

80 (national broadcasting 6, regional 7, local 67) (2004)


Televisions:

2.62 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.sk


Internet hosts:

717,744 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

6 (2000)


Internet users:

2.35 million (2007)


Transportation
Slovakia



Airports:

35 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 20
over 3,047 m: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
914 to 1,523 m: 3
under 914 m: 10 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 15
914 to 1,523 m: 8
under 914 m: 7 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 6,769 km; oil 416 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 3,662 km
broad gauge: 100 km 1.520-m gauge
standard gauge: 3,512 km 1.435-m gauge (1,588 km electrified)
narrow gauge: 50 km (1.000-m or 0.750-m gauge) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 43,761 km
paved: 38,085 km (includes 316 km of expressways)
unpaved: 5,676 km (2006)


Waterways:

172 km (on Danube River) (2005)


Merchant marine:

total: 51
by type: bulk carrier 5, cargo 42, refrigerated cargo 4
foreign-owned: 47 (Bulgaria 6, Germany 3, Greece 2, Ireland 1,
Israel 4, Italy 2, Poland 2, Russia 1, Slovenia 1, Syria 2, Turkey
10, Ukraine 12, UK 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Bratislava, Komarno


Military
Slovakia



Military branches:

Armed Forces of the Slovak Republic (Ozbrojene Sily Slovenskej
Republiky): Land Forces (Pozemne Sily), Air Forces (Vzdusne Sily)
(2008)


Military service age and obligation:

17-30 years of age for voluntary military service; conscription
abolished in 2006; women are eligible to serve (2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,420,966
females age 16-49: 1,386,259 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,166,833
females age 16-49: 1,156,874 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 38,183
female: 36,388 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.87% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Slovakia



Disputes - international:

bilateral government, legal, technical and economic working group
negotiations continued in 2006 between Slovakia and Hungary over
Hungary's completion of its portion of the Gabcikovo-Nagymaros
hydroelectric dam project along the Danube; as a member state that
forms part of the EU's external border, Slovakia has implemented the
strict Schengen border rules


Illicit drugs:

transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin bound for Western
Europe; producer of synthetic drugs for regional market; consumer of
ecstasy



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Slovenia

Introduction
Slovenia



Background:

The Slovene lands were part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire until the
latter's dissolution at the end of World War I. In 1918, the
Slovenes joined the Serbs and Croats in forming a new multinational
state, which was named Yugoslavia in 1929. After World War II,
Slovenia became a republic of the renewed Yugoslavia, which though
Communist, distanced itself from Moscow's rule. Dissatisfied with
the exercise of power by the majority Serbs, the Slovenes succeeded
in establishing their independence in 1991 after a short 10-day war.
Historical ties to Western Europe, a strong economy, and a stable
democracy have assisted in Slovenia's transformation to a modern
state. Slovenia acceded to both NATO and the EU in the spring of
2004.


Geography
Slovenia



Location:

Central Europe, eastern Alps bordering the Adriatic Sea, between
Austria and Croatia


Geographic coordinates:

46 07 N, 14 49 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 20,273 sq km
land: 20,151 sq km
water: 122 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than New Jersey


Land boundaries:

total: 1,086 km
border countries: Austria 330 km, Croatia 455 km, Hungary 102 km,
Italy 199 km


Coastline:

46.6 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm


Climate:

Mediterranean climate on the coast, continental climate with mild to
hot summers and cold winters in the plateaus and valleys to the east


Terrain:

a short coastal strip on the Adriatic, an alpine mountain region
adjacent to Italy and Austria, mixed mountains and valleys with
numerous rivers to the east


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Adriatic Sea 0 m
highest point: Triglav 2,864 m


Natural resources:

lignite coal, lead, zinc, building stone, hydropower, forests


Land use:

arable land: 8.53%
permanent crops: 1.43%
other: 90.04% (2005)


Irrigated land:

30 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

32.1 cu km (2005)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.9
per capita: 457 cu m/yr (2002)


Natural hazards:

flooding and earthquakes


Environment - current issues:

Sava River polluted with domestic and industrial waste; pollution of
coastal waters with heavy metals and toxic chemicals; forest damage
near Koper from air pollution (originating at metallurgical and
chemical plants) and resulting acid rain


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Sulfur 94, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

despite its small size, this eastern Alpine country controls some of
Europe's major transit routes


People
Slovenia



Population:

2,007,711 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 13.6% (male 140,686/female 132,778)
15-64 years: 70.1% (male 709,689/female 697,862)
65 years and over: 16.3% (male 127,313/female 199,383) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 41.4 years
male: 39.8 years
female: 42.9 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

-0.088% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

8.99 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

10.51 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

0.64 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.07 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.64 male(s)/female
total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 4.3 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 4.87 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 3.69 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 76.73 years
male: 73.04 years
female: 80.66 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.27 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

less than 0.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

280 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 100 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Slovene(s)
adjective: Slovenian


Ethnic groups:

Slovene 83.1%, Serb 2%, Croat 1.8%, Bosniak 1.1%, other or
unspecified 12% (2002 census)


Religions:

Catholic 57.8%, Muslim 2.4%, Orthodox 2.3%, other Christian 0.9%,
unaffiliated 3.5%, other or unspecified 23%, none 10.1% (2002 census)


Languages:

Slovenian 91.1%, Serbo-Croatian 4.5%, other or unspecified 4.4%
(2002 census)


Literacy:

definition: NA
total population: 99.7%
male: 99.7%
female: 99.6%


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 17 years
male: 16 years
female: 17 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

6% of GDP (2005)


Government
Slovenia



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Slovenia
conventional short form: Slovenia
local long form: Republika Slovenija
local short form: Slovenija
former: People's Republic of Slovenia, Socialist Republic of Slovenia


Government type:

parliamentary republic


Capital:

name: Ljubljana
geographic coordinates: 46 03 N, 14 31 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

182 municipalities (obcine, singular - obcina) and 11 urban
municipalities* (mestne obcine , singular - mestna obcina )
Ajdovscina, Beltinci, Benedikt, Bistrica ob Sotli, Bled, Bloke,
Bohinj, Borovnica, Bovec, Braslovce, Brda, Brezice, Brezovica,
Cankova, Celje*, Cerklje na Gorenjskem, Cerknica, Cerkno,
Cerkvenjak, Crensovci, Crna na Koroskem, Crnomelj, Destrnik, Divaca,
Dobje, Dobrepolje, Dobrna, Dobrova-Horjul-Polhov Gradec,
Dobrovnik-Dobronak, Dolenjske Toplice, Dol pri Ljubljani, Domzale,
Dornava, Dravograd, Duplek, Gorenja Vas-Poljane, Gorisnica, Gornja
Radgona, Gornji Grad, Gornji Petrovci, Grad, Grosuplje, Hajdina,
Hoce-Slivnica, Hodos-Hodos, Horjul, Hrastnik, Hrpelje-Kozina,
Idrija, Ig, Ilirska Bistrica, Ivancna Gorica, Izola-Isola, Jesenice,
Jezersko, Jursinci, Kamnik, Kanal, Kidricevo, Kobarid, Kobilje,
Kocevje, Komen, Komenda, Koper-Capodistria*, Kostel, Kozje, Kranj*,
Kranjska Gora, Krizevci, Krsko, Kungota, Kuzma, Lasko, Lenart,
Lendava-Lendva, Litija, Ljubljana*, Ljubno, Ljutomer, Logatec, Loska
Dolina, Loski Potok, Lovrenc na Pohorju, Luce, Lukovica, Majsperk,
Maribor*, Markovci, Medvode, Menges, Metlika, Mezica, Miklavz na
Dravskem Polju, Miren-Kostanjevica, Mirna Pec, Mislinja, Moravce,
Moravske Toplice, Mozirje, Murska Sobota*, Muta, Naklo, Nazarje,
Nova Gorica*, Novo Mesto*, Odranci, Oplotnica, Ormoz, Osilnica,
Pesnica, Piran-Pirano, Pivka, Podcetrtek, Podlehnik, Podvelka,
Polzela, Postojna, Prebold, Preddvor, Prevalje, Ptuj*, Puconci,
Race-Fram, Radece, Radenci, Radlje ob Dravi, Radovljica, Ravne na
Koroskem, Razkrizje, Ribnica, Ribnica na Pohorju, Rogasovci, Rogaska
Slatina, Rogatec, Ruse, Salovci, Selnica ob Dravi, Semic,
Sempeter-Vrtojba, Sencur, Sentilj, Sentjernej, Sentjur pri Celju,
Sevnica, Sezana, Skocjan, Skofja Loka, Skofljica, Slovenj Gradec*,
Slovenska Bistrica, Slovenske Konjice, Smarje pri Jelsah, Smartno ob
Paki, Smartno pri Litiji, Sodrazica, Solcava, Sostanj, Starse,
Store, Sveta Ana, Sveti Andraz v Slovenskih Goricah, Sveti Jurij,
Tabor, Tisina, Tolmin, Trbovlje, Trebnje, Trnovska Vas, Trzic,
Trzin, Turnisce, Velenje*, Velika Polana, Velike Lasce, Verzej,
Videm, Vipava, Vitanje, Vodice, Vojnik, Vransko, Vrhnika, Vuzenica,
Zagorje ob Savi, Zalec, Zavrc, Zelezniki, Zetale, Ziri, Zirovnica,
Zuzemberk, Zrece
note: the Government of Slovenia has reported 210 municipalities


Independence:

25 June 1991 (from Yugoslavia)


National holiday:

Independence Day/Statehood Day, 25 June (1991)


Constitution:

adopted 23 December 1991


Legal system:

based on civil law system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal (16 years of age, if employed)


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Danilo TURK (since 22 December 2007)
head of government: Prime Minister Borut PAHOR (since 7 November
2008)
cabinet: Council of Ministers nominated by the prime minister and
elected by the National Assembly
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 21 October and 11
November 2007 (next to be held in the fall of 2012); following
National Assembly elections, the leader of the majority party or the
leader of a majority coalition is usually nominated to become prime
minister by the president and elected by the National Assembly;
election last held on 9 November 2004 (next National Assembly
elections to be held in October 2008)
election results: Danilo TURK elected president; percent of vote -
Danilo TURK 68.2%, Alojze PETERLE 31.8%; Janez JANSA elected prime
minister by National Assembly vote - 57 to 27 in 2004


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament consists of a National Assembly or Drzavni Zbor
(90 seats; 40 members are directly elected and 50 are elected on a
proportional basis; note - the number of directly elected and
proportionally elected seats varies with each election; the
constitution mandates 1 seat each for Slovenia's Hungarian and
Italian minorities; members are elected by popular vote to serve
four-year terms) and the National Council or Drzavni Svet (40 seats;
members indirectly elected by an electoral college to serve
five-year terms; note - this is primarily an advisory body with
limited legislative powers; it may propose laws, ask to review any
National Assembly decision, and call national referenda)
elections: National Assembly - last held 21 September 2008 (next to
be held 8 October 2012)
election results: percent of vote by party - SD 30.5%, SDS 29.3%,
ZARES 9.4%, DeSUS 7.5%, SNS 5.5%, SLS+SMS 5.2%, LDS 5.2%, other
7.4%; seats by party - SD 29, SDS 28, ZARES 9, DeSUS 7, SNS 5,
SLS+SMS 5, LDS 5, Hungarian minority 1, Italian minority 1


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (judges are elected by the National Assembly on the
recommendation of the Judicial Council); Constitutional Court
(judges elected for nine-year terms by the National Assembly and
nominated by the president)


Political parties and leaders:

Liberal Democracy of Slovenia or LDS [Katarina KRESAL]; New Slovenia
or NSi [Andrej BAJUK]; Slovenian Democratic Party or SDS [Janez
JANSA]; Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia or DeSUS [Karl
ERJAVEC]; Slovene National Party or SNS [Zmago JELINCIC]; Slovene
People's Party or SLS [Bojan SROT]; Slovene Youth Party or SMS
[Darko KRANJC]; Social Democrats or SD [Borut PAHOR] (formerly
ZLSD); ZARES [Gregor Golobic]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Democratic Party of Slovenian Pensioners or DeSUS (protecting the
rights of the older generation); Slovenian Roma Association [Jozek
Horvat MUC]
other: Catholic Church


International organization participation:

Australia Group, BIS, CE, CEI, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EMU, EU, FAO, IADB,
IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF,
IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITU, MIGA, NAM (guest), NATO,
NSG, OAS (observer), OIF (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PCA, Schengen
Convention, SECI, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNTSO, UNWTO,
UPU, WCO, WEU (associate partner), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Mariam
MOZGAN
chancery: 2410 California Street N.W., Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 386-6601
FAX: [1] (202) 386-6633
consulate(s) general: Cleveland, New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Yousif B. GHAFARI
embassy: Presernova 31, 1000 Ljubljana
mailing address: American Embassy Ljubljana, US Department of State,
7140 Ljubljana Place, Washington, DC 20521-7140
telephone: [386] (1) 200-5500
FAX: [386] (1) 200-5555


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of white (top), blue, and red, with the
Slovenian seal (a shield with the image of Triglav, Slovenia's
highest peak, in white against a blue background at the center;
beneath it are two wavy blue lines depicting seas and rivers, and
above it are three six-pointed stars arranged in an inverted
triangle, which are taken from the coat of arms of the Counts of
Celje, the great Slovene dynastic house of the late 14th and early
15th centuries); the seal is in the upper hoist side of the flag
centered on the white and blue bands


Economy
Slovenia



Economy - overview:

Slovenia, which on 1 January 2007 became the first 2004 European
Union entrant to adopt the euro, is a model of economic success and
stability for the region. With the highest per capita GDP in Central
Europe, Slovenia has excellent infrastructure, a well-educated work
force, and a strategic location between the Balkans and Western
Europe. Privatization has lagged since 2002, and the economy has one
of highest levels of state control in the EU. Structural reforms to
improve the business environment have allowed for somewhat greater
foreign participation in Slovenia's economy and have helped to lower
unemployment. In March 2004, Slovenia became the first transition
country to graduate from borrower status to donor partner at the
World Bank. In December 2007, Slovenia was invited to begin the
accession process for joining the OECD. Despite its economic
success, foreign direct investment (FDI) in Slovenia has lagged
behind the region average, and taxes remain relatively high.
Furthermore, the labor market is often seen as inflexible, and
legacy industries are losing sales to more competitive firms in
China, India, and elsewhere.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$56.19 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$46.08 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6.1% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$28,000 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 2.1%
industry: 34.4%
services: 63.5% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

925,000 (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 2.5%
industry: 36%
services: 61.5% (2007)


Unemployment rate:

7.7% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

12.9% (2004)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 3.6%
highest 10%: 21.4% (1998)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

24 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

28.7% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $19.17 billion
expenditures: $19.04 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

23.6% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

3.6% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

NA (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

6.82% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$9.347 billion
note: see entry for the European Union for money supply in the Euro
Area; the European Central Bank (ECB) controls monetary policy for
the 15 members of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU); individual
members of the EMU do not control the quantity of money and quasi
money circulating within their own borders (31 December 2006)


Stock of quasi money:

$12.69 billion (31 December 2006)


Stock of domestic credit:

NA (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

potatoes, hops, wheat, sugar beets, corn, grapes; cattle, sheep,
poultry


Industries:

ferrous metallurgy and aluminum products, lead and zinc smelting;
electronics (including military electronics), trucks, automobiles,
electric power equipment, wood products, textiles, chemicals,
machine tools


Industrial production growth rate:

9.5% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

14.13 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

13.4 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

5.894 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

6.14 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 35.2%
hydro: 27.3%
nuclear: 36.8%
other: 0.7% (2001)


Oil - production:

5 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

54,310 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

4,535 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

59,110 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

4 million cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

1.105 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

1.073 billion cu m (2005)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$2.181 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$27.06 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

manufactured goods, machinery and transport equipment, chemicals,
food


Exports - partners:

Germany 18.7%, Italy 12.5%, Croatia 8%, Austria 7.5%, France 5.9%,
Russia 4.4% (2007)


Imports:

$29.39 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and transport equipment, manufactured goods, chemicals,
fuels and lubricants, food


Imports - partners:

Germany 18.1%, Italy 17.1%, Austria 11.7%, France 5%, Croatia 4.6%
(2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

ODA, $484 million (2004-06)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$5.682 billion (30 September 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$40.42 billion (30 June 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$10.41 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$6.127 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$15.18 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

euro (EUR)
note: on 1 January 2007, the euro became Slovenia's currency; both
the tolar and the euro were in circulation from 1 January until 15
January 2007


Currency code:

SIT


Exchange rates:

euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), tolars per US dollar -
190.85 (2006), 192.71 (2005), 192.38 (2004), 207.11 (2003)
note: Slovenia adopted the euro as its currency on 1 January 2007


Communications
Slovenia



Telephones - main lines in use:

857,100 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

1.928 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: well-developed telecommunications infrastructure
domestic: combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity
roughly 140 telephones per 100 persons
international: country code - 386


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 10, FM 230, shortwave 0 (2006)


Radios:

805,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

31 (2006)


Televisions:

710,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.si


Internet hosts:

75,984 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

11 (2000)


Internet users:

1.3 million (2007)


Transportation
Slovenia



Airports:

14 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 6
over 3,047 m: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 2
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 8
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 2
under 914 m: 4 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 840 km; oil 11 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 1,229 km
standard gauge: 1,229 km 1.435-m gauge (504 km electrified) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 38,562 km
paved: 38,562 km (includes 579 km of expressways) (2006)


Merchant marine:

registered in other countries: 29 (Antigua and Barbuda 6, Bahamas 1,
Cyprus 4, Liberia 3, Malta 4, Marshall Islands 4, Saint Vincent and
the Grenadines 5, Singapore 1, Slovakia 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Koper


Military
Slovenia



Military branches:

Slovenian Army (includes air and naval forces)


Military service age and obligation:

17 years of age for voluntary military service; conscription
abolished in 2003 (2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 494,496
females age 16-49: 481,180 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 406,951
females age 16-49: 395,444 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 10,516
female: 9,934 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.7% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Slovenia



Disputes - international:

the Croatia-Slovenia land and maritime boundary agreement, which
would have ceded most of Piran Bay and maritime access to Slovenia
and several villages to Croatia, remains unratified and in dispute;
Slovenia also protests Croatia's 2003 claim to an exclusive economic
zone in the Adriatic; as a member state that forms part of the EU's
external border, Slovenia has implemented the strict Schengen border
rules to curb illegal migration and commerce through southeastern
Europe while encouraging close cross-border ties with Croatia


Illicit drugs:

minor transit point for cocaine and Southwest Asian heroin bound for
Western Europe, and for precursor chemicals



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Solomon Islands

Introduction
Solomon Islands



Background:

The UK established a protectorate over the Solomon Islands in the
1890s. Some of the bitterest fighting of World War II occurred on
this archipelago. Self-government was achieved in 1976 and
independence two years later. Ethnic violence, government
malfeasance, and endemic crime have undermined stability and civil
society. In June 2003, then Prime Minister Sir Allan KEMAKEZA sought
the assistance of Australia in reestablishing law and order; the
following month, an Australian-led multinational force arrived to
restore peace and disarm ethnic militias. The Regional Assistance
Mission to the Solomon Islands (RAMSI) has generally been effective
in restoring law and order and rebuilding government institutions.


Geography
Solomon Islands



Location:

Oceania, group of islands in the South Pacific Ocean, east of Papua
New Guinea


Geographic coordinates:

8 00 S, 159 00 E


Map references:

Oceania


Area:

total: 28,450 sq km
land: 27,540 sq km
water: 910 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Maryland


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

5,313 km


Maritime claims:

measured from claimed archipelagic baselines
territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical monsoon; few extremes of temperature and weather


Terrain:

mostly rugged mountains with some low coral atolls


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: Mount Makarakomburu 2,447 m


Natural resources:

fish, forests, gold, bauxite, phosphates, lead, zinc, nickel


Land use:

arable land: 0.62%
permanent crops: 2.04%
other: 97.34% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Total renewable water resources:

44.7 cu km (1987)


Natural hazards:

typhoons, but rarely destructive; geologically active region with
frequent earthquakes, tremors, and volcanic activity; tsunamis


Environment - current issues:

deforestation; soil erosion; many of the surrounding coral reefs are
dead or dying


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Environmental Modification, Law of the
Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer
Protection, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

strategic location on sea routes between the South Pacific Ocean,
the Solomon Sea, and the Coral Sea; on 2 April 2007 an undersea
earthquake measuring 8.1 on the Richter scale occurred 345 km WNW of
the capital Honiara, the resulting tsunami devastated coastal areas
of Western and Choiseul provinces with dozens of deaths and
thousands dislocated; the provincial capital of Gizo was especially
hard hit


People
Solomon Islands



Population:

581,318 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 40.1% (male 118,856/female 114,173)
15-64 years: 56.5% (male 166,004/female 162,317)
65 years and over: 3.4% (male 9,487/female 10,481) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 19.4 years
male: 19.3 years
female: 19.6 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.467% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

28.48 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

3.81 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.9 male(s)/female
total population: 1.03 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 19.67 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 22.36 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 16.84 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 73.44 years
male: 70.9 years
female: 76.1 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

3.65 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Solomon Islander(s)
adjective: Solomon Islander


Ethnic groups:

Melanesian 94.5%, Polynesian 3%, Micronesian 1.2%, other 1.1%,
unspecified 0.2% (1999 census)


Religions:

Church of Melanesia 32.8%, Roman Catholic 19%, South Seas
Evangelical 17%, Seventh-Day Adventist 11.2%, United Church 10.3%,
Christian Fellowship Church 2.4%, other Christian 4.4%, other 2.4%,
unspecified 0.3%, none 0.2% (1999 census)


Languages:

Melanesian pidgin in much of the country is lingua franca; English
(official; but spoken by only 1%-2% of the population); 120
indigenous languages


Literacy:

NA


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 8 years
male: 9 years
female: 8 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

3.3% of GDP (1999)


Government
Solomon Islands



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Solomon Islands
local long form: none
local short form: Solomon Islands
former: British Solomon Islands


Government type:

parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Honiara
geographic coordinates: 9 26 S, 159 57 E
time difference: UTC+11 (16 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

9 provinces and 1 capital territory*; Central, Choiseul,
Guadalcanal, Honiara*, Isabel, Makira, Malaita, Rennell and Bellona,
Temotu, Western


Independence:

7 July 1978 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 7 July (1978)


Constitution:

7 July 1978


Legal system:

English common law, which is widely disregarded; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

21 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by Governor General Nathaniel WAENA (since 7 July 2004)
head of government: Prime Minister Derek SIKUA (since 20 December
2007); note - Prime Minister Manasseh SOGAVARE defeated in a no
confidence vote in parliament on 13 December 2007; SIKUA elected on
20 December 2007
cabinet: Cabinet consists of 20 members appointed by the governor
general on the advice of the prime minister from among the members
of Parliament
elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor general appointed by
the monarch on the advice of Parliament for up to five years
(eligible for a second term); following legislative elections, the
leader of the majority party or the leader of a majority coalition
is usually elected prime minister by Parliament; deputy prime
minister appointed by the governor general on the advice of the
prime minister from among the members of Parliament


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Parliament (50 seats; members elected from
single-member constituencies by popular vote to serve four-year
terms)
elections: last held on 5 April 2006 (next to be held in 2010)
election results: percent of vote by party - National Party 6.9%,
PAP 6.3%, SIPRA 6.3%, Liberal 5%, Democratic 4.9%, SOCRED 4.3%,
LAFARI 2.8%, independents 60.3%; seats by party - National Party 4,
SIPRA 4, Democratic 3, PAP 3, LAFARI 2, Liberal 2, SOCRED 2,
independents 30


Judicial branch:

Court of Appeal


Political parties and leaders:

Association of Independent Members or AIM [Thomas CHAN]; Christian
Alliance Solomon Islands or CASI [Edward RONIA]; LAFARI Party [John
GARO]; National Party [Francis HILLY]; People's Alliance Party or
PAP [Sir Allan KEMAKEZA]; Social Credit Party or SOCRED [Manasseh
Damukana SOGAVARE]; Solomon First Party [David QUAN]; Solomon
Islands Democratic Party [Gabriel SURI]; Solomon Islands Labor Party
or SILP [Joses TUHANUKU]; Solomon Islands Liberal Party [Bartholomew
ULUFA'ALU]; Solomon Islands Party for Rural Advancement or SIPRA
[Job D. TAUSINGA]; United Party [Sir Peter KENILOREA]
note: in general, Solomon Islands politics is characterized by fluid
coalitions


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Isatabu Freedom Movement (IFM); Malaita Eagle Force (MEF); note -
these rival armed ethnic factions crippled the Solomon Islands in a
wave of violence from 1999 to 2003


International organization participation:

ACP, ADB, C, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt (signatory), ICRM,
IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IOC, ITU, MIGA, OPCW, PIF,
Sparteca, SPC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU, WHO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Collin David BECK
chancery: 800 Second Avenue, Suite 400L, New York, NY 10017
telephone: [1] (212) 599-6192, 6193
FAX: [1] (212) 661-8925


Diplomatic representation from the US:

the US does not have an embassy in Solomon Islands (embassy closed
July 1993); the ambassador to Papua New Guinea is accredited to the
Solomon Islands


Flag description:

divided diagonally by a thin yellow stripe from the lower hoist-side
corner; the upper triangle (hoist side) is blue with five white
five-pointed stars arranged in an X pattern; the lower triangle is
green


Government - note:

by the end of 2007, the Regional Assistance Mission to the Solomon
Islands (RAMSI) - originally made up of police and troops from
Australia, NZ, Fiji, Papua New Guinea, and Tonga - had been scaled
back to 303 police officers, 197 civilian technical advisers, and 72
military advisers from 15 countries across the region


Economy
Solomon Islands



Economy - overview:

The bulk of the population depends on agriculture, fishing, and
forestry for at least part of its livelihood. Most manufactured
goods and petroleum products must be imported. The islands are rich
in undeveloped mineral resources such as lead, zinc, nickel, and
gold. Prior to the arrival of the Regional Assistance Mission to the
Solomon Islands (RAMSI), severe ethnic violence, the closing of key
businesses, and an empty government treasury culminated in economic
collapse. RAMSI's efforts to restore law and order and economic
stability have led to modest growth as the economy rebuilds.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$948 million (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$358 million (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

5.4% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$1,900 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 42%
industry: 11%
services: 47% (2000 est.)


Labor force:

249,200 (1999)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 75%
industry: 5%
services: 20% (2000 est.)


Unemployment rate:

NA%


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $49.7 million
expenditures: $75.1 million (2003)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

6.3% (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

14.12% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$118.3 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$57.89 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$126.9 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

cocoa beans, coconuts, palm kernels, rice, potatoes, vegetables,
fruit; timber; cattle, pigs; fish


Industries:

fish (tuna), mining, timber


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

70 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

70 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

1,320 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

1,426 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$143 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$237 million f.o.b. (2006)


Exports - commodities:

timber, fish, copra, palm oil, cocoa


Exports - partners:

China 50.8%, South Korea 7%, Thailand 6.5%, Japan 5.7%, Philippines
4.3% (2007)


Imports:

$256 million f.o.b. (2006)


Imports - commodities:

food, plant and equipment, manufactured goods, fuels, chemicals


Imports - partners:

Singapore 28.2%, Australia 25.4%, Japan 4.6%, NZ 4.5%, Fiji 4% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$198.2 million annually, mainly from Australia (2005 est.)


Debt - external:

$166 million (2004)


Currency (code):

Solomon Islands dollar (SBD)


Currency code:

SBD


Exchange rates:

Solomon Islands dollars (SBD) per US dollar - NA (2007), 7.3447
(2006), 7.5299 (2005), 7.4847 (2004), 7.5059 (2003)


Communications
Solomon Islands



Telephones - main lines in use:

7,600 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

10,900 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: NA
domestic: NA
international: country code - 677; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 1 (2004)


Radios:

57,000 (1997)


Televisions:

3,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.sb


Internet hosts:

3,804 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

8,000 (2006)


Transportation
Solomon Islands



Airports:

35 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 33
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 9
under 914 m: 23 (2007)


Heliports:

3 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 1,360 km
paved: 33 km
unpaved: 1,327 km
note: includes 800 km of private plantation roads (2002)


Ports and terminals:

Honiara, Malloco Bay, Viru Harbor


Military
Solomon Islands



Military branches:

no regular military forces; Solomon Islands Police Force (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 141,051 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 116,891 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 6,924
female: 6,679 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

3% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Solomon Islands



Disputes - international:

since 2003, the Regional Assistance Mission to the Solomon Islands
(RAMSI), consisting of police, military, and civilian advisors drawn
from 15 countries, has assisted in reestablishing and maintaining
civil and political order while reinforcing regional stability and
security


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

IDPs: 5,400 (displaced by tsunami on 2 April 2007) (2007)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Somalia

Introduction
Somalia



Background:

Britain withdrew from British Somaliland in 1960 to allow its
protectorate to join with Italian Somaliland and form the new nation
of Somalia. In 1969, a coup headed by Mohamed SIAD Barre ushered in
an authoritarian socialist rule that managed to impose a degree of
stability in the country for a couple of decades. After the regime's
collapse early in 1991, Somalia descended into turmoil, factional
fighting, and anarchy. In May 1991, northern clans declared an
independent Republic of Somaliland that now includes the
administrative regions of Awdal, Woqooyi Galbeed, Togdheer, Sanaag,
and Sool. Although not recognized by any government, this entity has
maintained a stable existence and continues efforts to establish a
constitutional democracy, including holding municipal,
parliamentary, and presidential elections. The regions of Bari,
Nugaal, and northern Mudug comprise a neighboring self-declared
autonomous state of Puntland, which has been self-governing since
1998 but does not aim at independence; it has also made strides
toward reconstructing a legitimate, representative government but
has suffered some civil strife. Puntland disputes its border with
Somaliland as it also claims portions of eastern Sool and Sanaag.
Beginning in 1993, a two-year UN humanitarian effort (primarily in
the south) was able to alleviate famine conditions, but when the UN
withdrew in 1995, having suffered significant casualties, order
still had not been restored. A two-year peace process, led by the
Government of Kenya under the auspices of the Intergovernmental
Authority on Development (IGAD), concluded in October 2004 with the
election of Abdullahi YUSUF Ahmed as President of the Transitional
Federal Government (TFG) of Somalia and the formation of an interim
government, known as the Somalia Transitional Federal Institutions
(TFIs). The Somalia TFIs include a 275-member parliamentary body,
known as the Transitional Federal Assembly (TFA), a transitional
Prime Minister, Nur "Adde" Hassan HUSSEIN, and a 90-member cabinet.
The TFIs are based on the Transitional Federal Charter, which
outlines a five-year mandate leading to the establishment of a new
Somali constitution and a transition to a representative government
following national elections. While its institutions remain weak,
the TFG continues to reach out to Somali stakeholders and work with
international donors to help build the governance capacity of the
TFIs and work towards national elections in 2009. In June 2006, a
loose coalition of clerics, business leaders, and Islamic court
militias known as the Council of Islamic Courts (CIC) defeated
powerful Mogadishu warlords and took control of the capital. The
Courts continued to expand militarily throughout much of southern
Somalia and threatened to overthrow the TFG in Baidoa. Ethiopian and
TFG forces, concerned over links between some CIC factions and the
al-Qaida East Africa network and the al-Qaida operatives responsible
for the bombings of the US embassies in Tanzania and Kenya in 1998,
intervened in late December 2006, resulting in the collapse of the
CIC as an organization. However, the TFG continues to face violent
resistance from extremist elements, such as the al-Shabaab militia
previously affiliated with the now-defunct CIC.


Geography
Somalia



Location:

Eastern Africa, bordering the Gulf of Aden and the Indian Ocean,
east of Ethiopia


Geographic coordinates:

10 00 N, 49 00 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 637,657 sq km
land: 627,337 sq km
water: 10,320 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Texas


Land boundaries:

total: 2,340 km
border countries: Djibouti 58 km, Ethiopia 1,600 km, Kenya 682 km


Coastline:

3,025 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 200 nm


Climate:

principally desert; northeast monsoon (December to February),
moderate temperatures in north and hot in south; southwest monsoon
(May to October), torrid in the north and hot in the south,
irregular rainfall, hot and humid periods (tangambili) between
monsoons


Terrain:

mostly flat to undulating plateau rising to hills in north


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
highest point: Shimbiris 2,416 m


Natural resources:

uranium and largely unexploited reserves of iron ore, tin, gypsum,
bauxite, copper, salt, natural gas, likely oil reserves


Land use:

arable land: 1.64%
permanent crops: 0.04%
other: 98.32% (2005)


Irrigated land:

2,000 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

15.7 cu km (1997)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 3.29 cu km/yr (0%/0%/100%)
per capita: 400 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

recurring droughts; frequent dust storms over eastern plains in
summer; floods during rainy season


Environment - current issues:

famine; use of contaminated water contributes to human health
problems; deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Endangered Species, Law of
the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection


Geography - note:

strategic location on Horn of Africa along southern approaches to
Bab el Mandeb and route through Red Sea and Suez Canal


People
Somalia



Population:

9,558,666
note: this estimate was derived from an official census taken in
1975 by the Somali Government; population counting in Somalia is
complicated by the large number of nomads and by refugee movements
in response to famine and clan warfare (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 44.7% (male 2,143,758/female 2,132,869)
15-64 years: 52.8% (male 2,525,562/female 2,516,879)
65 years and over: 2.5% (male 100,655/female 138,943) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 17.5 years
male: 17.4 years
female: 17.6 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.824% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

44.12 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

15.89 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.72 male(s)/female
total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 110.97 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 120.17 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 101.5 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 49.25 years
male: 47.43 years
female: 51.12 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

6.6 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

43,000 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A and E, and typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: dengue fever, malaria, and Rift Valley fever
water contact disease: schistosomiasis
animal contact disease: rabies (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Somali(s)
adjective: Somali


Ethnic groups:

Somali 85%, Bantu and other non-Somali 15% (including Arabs 30,000)


Religions:

Sunni Muslim


Languages:

Somali (official), Arabic, Italian, English


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 37.8%
male: 49.7%
female: 25.8% (2001 est.)


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Somalia



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Somalia
local long form: Jamhuuriyada Demuqraadiga Soomaaliyeed
local short form: Soomaaliya
former: Somali Republic, Somali Democratic Republic


Government type:

no permanent national government; transitional, parliamentary
federal government


Capital:

name: Mogadishu
geographic coordinates: 2 04 N, 45 22 E
time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

18 regions (plural - NA, singular - gobolka); Awdal, Bakool,
Banaadir, Bari, Bay, Galguduud, Gedo, Hiiraan, Jubbada Dhexe,
Jubbada Hoose, Mudug, Nugaal, Sanaag, Shabeellaha Dhexe, Shabeellaha
Hoose, Sool, Togdheer, Woqooyi Galbeed


Independence:

1 July 1960 (from a merger of British Somaliland, which became
independent from the UK on 26 June 1960, and Italian Somaliland,
which became independent from the Italian-administered UN
trusteeship on 1 July 1960, to form the Somali Republic)


National holiday:

Foundation of the Somali Republic, 1 July (1960); note - 26 June
(1960) in Somaliland


Constitution:

25 August 1979, presidential approval 23 September 1979
note: the formation of transitional governing institutions, known as
the Transitional Federal Government, is currently ongoing


Legal system:

no national system; a mixture of English common law, Italian law,
Islamic Sharia, and Somali customary law; accepts compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Transitional Federal President Abdullahi YUSUF Ahmed
(since 14 October 2004); note - a transitional governing entity with
a five-year mandate, known as the Transitional Federal Institutions
(TFIs), was established in October 2004; the TFIs relocated to
Somalia in June 2004
head of government: Prime Minister Nur "Adde" HASSAN Hussein (since
24 November 2007)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the prime minister and approved by the
Transitional Federal Assembly
election results: Abdullahi YUSUF Ahmed, the former leader of the
semi-autonomous Puntland region of Somalia, was elected president by
the Transitional Federal Assembly


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly
note: unicameral Transitional Federal Assembly (TFA) (275 seats; 244
members appointed by the four major clans (61 for each clan), 31
seats allocated to smaller clans and subclans)


Judicial branch:

following the breakdown of the central government, most regions have
reverted to local forms of conflict resolution, either secular,
traditional Somali customary law, or Sharia (Islamic) law with a
provision for appeal of all sentences


Political parties and leaders:

none


Political pressure groups and leaders:

other: numerous clan and sub-clan factions exist both in support and
in opposition to the transitional government


International organization participation:

ACP, AfDB, AFESD, AMF, AU, CAEU, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA,
IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IGAD, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU,
ITSO, ITU, LAS, NAM, OIC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU,
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

Somalia does not have an embassy in the US (ceased operations on 8
May 1991); note - the TFG is represented in the United States
through its Permanent Mission to the United Nations


Diplomatic representation from the US:

the US does not have an embassy in Somalia; US interests are
represented by the US Embassy in Nairobi, Kenya at United Nations
Avenue, Nairobi; mailing address: Unit 64100, Nairobi; APO AE 09831;
telephone: [254] (20) 363-6000; FAX [254] (20) 363-6157


Flag description:

light blue with a large white five-pointed star in the center; blue
field influenced by the flag of the UN


Government - note:

although an interim government was created in 2004, other regional
and local governing bodies continue to exist and control various
regions of the country, including the self-declared Republic of
Somaliland in northwestern Somalia and the semi-autonomous State of
Puntland in northeastern Somalia


Economy
Somalia



Economy - overview:

Despite the lack of effective national governance, Somalia has
maintained a healthy informal economy, largely based on livestock,
remittance/money transfer companies, and telecommunications.
Agriculture is the most important sector, with livestock normally
accounting for about 40% of GDP and about 65% of export earnings.
Nomads and semi-pastoralists, who are dependent upon livestock for
their livelihood, make up a large portion of the population.
Livestock, hides, fish, charcoal, and bananas are Somalia's
principal exports, while sugar, sorghum, corn, qat, and machined
goods are the principal imports. Somalia's small industrial sector,
based on the processing of agricultural products, has largely been
looted and sold as scrap metal. Somalia's service sector also has
grown. Telecommunication firms provide wireless services in most
major cities and offer the lowest international call rates on the
continent. In the absence of a formal banking sector, money exchange
services have sprouted throughout the country, handling between $500
million and $1 billion in remittances annually. Mogadishu's main
market offers a variety of goods from food to the newest electronic
gadgets. Hotels continue to operate and are supported with
private-security militias. Somalia's arrears to the IMF continued to
grow in 2006-07. Statistics on Somalia's GDP, growth, per capita
income, and inflation should be viewed skeptically. In late December
2004, a major tsunami caused an estimated 150 deaths and resulted in
destruction of property in coastal areas.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$5.387 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$2.509 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

2.6% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$600 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 65%
industry: 10%
services: 25% (2000 est.)


Labor force:

3.7 million (few skilled laborers) (1975)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 71%
industry and services: 29% (1975)


Unemployment rate:

NA%


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $NA
expenditures: $NA


Fiscal year:

NA


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

NA%; note - businesses print their own money, so inflation rates
cannot be easily determined


Agriculture - products:

bananas, sorghum, corn, coconuts, rice, sugarcane, mangoes, sesame
seeds, beans; cattle, sheep, goats; fish


Industries:

a few light industries, including sugar refining, textiles, wireless
communication


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

280 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

260.4 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

5,040 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

4,772 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

5.663 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Exports:

$300 million f.o.b. (2006)


Exports - commodities:

livestock, bananas, hides, fish, charcoal, scrap metal


Exports - partners:

UAE 50.7%, Yemen 21%, Oman 6.1% (2007)


Imports:

$798 million f.o.b. (2006)


Imports - commodities:

manufactures, petroleum products, foodstuffs, construction
materials, qat


Imports - partners:

Djibouti 34.4%, India 9.1%, Kenya 9%, Oman 6%, UAE 5.6%, Yemen 5.5%
(2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$236.4 million (2005 est.)


Debt - external:

$3 billion (2001 est.)


Currency (code):

Somali shilling (SOS)


Currency code:

SOS


Exchange rates:

Somali shillings (SOS) per US dollar - NA (2007), 1,438.3 (2006)
official rate; the unofficial black market rate was about 23,000
shillings per dollar as of February 2007
note: the Republic of Somaliland, a self-declared independent
country not recognized by any foreign government, issues its own
currency, the Somaliland shilling


Communications
Somalia



Telephones - main lines in use:

100,000 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

600,000 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: the public telecommunications system was almost
completely destroyed or dismantled during the civil war; private
wireless companies offer service in most major cities and charge the
lowest international rates on the continent
domestic: local cellular telephone systems have been established in
Mogadishu and in several other population centers
international: country code - 252; international connections are
available from Mogadishu by satellite (2001)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 0, FM 11 (also 1 station each in Puntland and Somaliland),
shortwave 1 (in Mogadishu) (2001)


Radios:

470,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

4 (2 in Mogadishu and 2 in Hargeisa) (2001)


Televisions:

135,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.so


Internet hosts:

1 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

3 (one each in Boosaaso, Hargeisa, and Mogadishu) (2000)


Internet users:

98,000 (2007)


Transportation
Somalia



Airports:

67 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 7
over 3,047 m: 4
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 60
over 3,047 m: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 3
1,524 to 2,437 m: 20
914 to 1,523 m: 29
under 914 m: 7 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 22,100 km
paved: 2,608 km
unpaved: 19,492 km (2000)


Merchant marine:

total: 1
by type: cargo 1
foreign-owned: 1 (UAE 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Berbera, Kismaayo


Transportation - note:

the International Maritime Bureau reports the territorial and
offshore waters in the Gulf of Aden and Indian Ocean are high risk
for piracy and armed robbery against ships; numerous vessels,
including commercial shipping and pleasure craft, have been attacked
and hijacked both at anchor and while underway; crew, passengers,
and cargo are held for ransom


Military
Somalia



Military branches:

no national-level armed forces (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,181,050
females age 16-49: 2,125,558 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,274,783
females age 16-49: 1,317,991 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 95,446
female: 95,339 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0.9% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Somalia



Disputes - international:

Ethiopian forces invaded southern Somalia and routed Islamist Courts
from Mogadishu in January 2007; "Somaliland" secessionists provide
port facilities in Berbera to landlocked Ethiopia and have
established commercial ties with other regional states; "Puntland"
and "Somaliland" "governments" seek international support in their
secessionist aspirations and overlapping border claims; the
undemarcated former British administrative line has little meaning
as a political separation to rival clans within Ethiopia's Ogaden
and southern Somalia's Oromo region; Kenya works hard to prevent the
clan and militia fighting in Somalia from spreading south across the
border, which has long been open to nomadic pastoralists


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

IDPs: 1.1 million (civil war since 1988, clan-based competition for
resources) (2007)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@South Africa

Introduction
South Africa



Background:

Dutch traders landed at the southern tip of modern day South Africa
in 1652 and established a stopover point on the spice route between
the Netherlands and the East, founding the city of Cape Town. After
the British seized the Cape of Good Hope area in 1806, many of the
Dutch settlers (the Boers) trekked north to found their own
republics. The discovery of diamonds (1867) and gold (1886) spurred
wealth and immigration and intensified the subjugation of the native
inhabitants. The Boers resisted British encroachments but were
defeated in the Boer War (1899-1902); however, the British and the
Afrikaners, as the Boers became known, ruled together under the
Union of South Africa. In 1948, the National Party was voted into
power and instituted a policy of apartheid - the separate
development of the races. The first multi-racial elections in 1994
brought an end to apartheid and ushered in black majority rule.


Geography
South Africa



Location:

Southern Africa, at the southern tip of the continent of Africa


Geographic coordinates:

29 00 S, 24 00 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 1,219,912 sq km
land: 1,219,912 sq km
water: 0 sq km
note: includes Prince Edward Islands (Marion Island and Prince
Edward Island)


Area - comparative:

slightly less than twice the size of Texas


Land boundaries:

total: 4,862 km
border countries: Botswana 1,840 km, Lesotho 909 km, Mozambique 491
km, Namibia 967 km, Swaziland 430 km, Zimbabwe 225 km


Coastline:

2,798 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm or to edge of the continental margin


Climate:

mostly semiarid; subtropical along east coast; sunny days, cool
nights


Terrain:

vast interior plateau rimmed by rugged hills and narrow coastal plain


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Njesuthi 3,408 m


Natural resources:

gold, chromium, antimony, coal, iron ore, manganese, nickel,
phosphates, tin, uranium, gem diamonds, platinum, copper, vanadium,
salt, natural gas


Land use:

arable land: 12.1%
permanent crops: 0.79%
other: 87.11% (2005)


Irrigated land:

14,980 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

50 cu km (1990)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 12.5 cu km/yr (31%/6%/63%)
per capita: 264 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

prolonged droughts


Environment - current issues:

lack of important arterial rivers or lakes requires extensive water
conservation and control measures; growth in water usage outpacing
supply; pollution of rivers from agricultural runoff and urban
discharge; air pollution resulting in acid rain; soil erosion;
desertification


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living
Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate
Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered
Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine
Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands,
Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

South Africa completely surrounds Lesotho and almost completely
surrounds Swaziland


People
South Africa



Population:

48,782,756
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 29.2% (male 7,147,151/female 7,120,183)
15-64 years: 65.5% (male 16,057,340/female 15,889,750)
65 years and over: 5.3% (male 1,050,287/female 1,518,044) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 24.2 years
male: 23.8 years
female: 24.6 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.828% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

20.23 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

16.94 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

4.98 migrant(s)/1,000 population
note: there is an increasing flow of Zimbabweans into South Africa
and Botswana in search of better economic opportunities (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.02 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.69 male(s)/female
total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 45.11 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 49.47 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 40.65 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 48.89 years
male: 49.63 years
female: 48.15 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.43 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

21.5% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

5.3 million (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

370,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: intermediate
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever
vectorborne disease: Crimean Congo hemorrhagic fever and malaria
water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: South African(s)
adjective: South African


Ethnic groups:

black African 79%, white 9.6%, colored 8.9%, Indian/Asian 2.5% (2001
census)


Religions:

Zion Christian 11.1%, Pentecostal/Charismatic 8.2%, Catholic 7.1%,
Methodist 6.8%, Dutch Reformed 6.7%, Anglican 3.8%, Muslim 1.5%,
other Christian 36%, other 2.3%, unspecified 1.4%, none 15.1% (2001
census)


Languages:

IsiZulu 23.8%, IsiXhosa 17.6%, Afrikaans 13.3%, Sepedi 9.4%, English
8.2%, Setswana 8.2%, Sesotho 7.9%, Xitsonga 4.4%, other 7.2% (2001
census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 86.4%
male: 87%
female: 85.7% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 13 years
male: 13 years
female: 13 years (2004)


Education expenditures:

5.4% of GDP (2006)


Government
South Africa



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of South Africa
conventional short form: South Africa
former: Union of South Africa
abbreviation: RSA


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Pretoria (administrative capital)
geographic coordinates: 25 42 S, 28 13 E
time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
note: Cape Town (legislative capital); Bloemfontein (judicial
capital)


Administrative divisions:

9 provinces; Eastern Cape, Free State, Gauteng, KwaZulu-Natal,
Limpopo, Mpumalanga, Northern Cape, North-West, Western Cape


Independence:

31 May 1910 (Union of South Africa formed from four British
colonies: Cape Colony, Natal, Transvaal, and Orange Free State); 31
May 1961 (republic declared) 27 April 1994 (majority rule)


National holiday:

Freedom Day, 27 April (1994)


Constitution:

10 December 1996; this new constitution was certified by the
Constitutional Court on 4 December 1996, was signed by then
President MANDELA on 10 December 1996, and entered into effect on 4
February 1997


Legal system:

based on Roman-Dutch law and English common law; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Kgalema MOTLANTHE (since 25 September
2008); Executive Deputy President Baleka MBETE (since 25 September
2008); note - Thabo MBEKI resigned as president effective 25
September 2008; the president is both the chief of state and head of
government
head of government: President Kgalema MOTLANTHE (since 25 September
2008); Executive Deputy President Baleka MBETE (since 25 September
2008)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president
elections: president elected by the National Assembly for a
five-year term (eligible for a second term); election last held on
25 September 2008 (next to be held in April 2009); note - Kgalema
MOTLANTHE is serving out the term of Thabo MBEKI
election results: Kgalema MOTLANTHE elected president; National
Assembly vote - Kgalema MOTLANTHE 269, Joe SEREMANE 50, other 41;
note - Thabo MBEKI resigned as president effective 25 September
2008, Kgalema MOTLANTHE is serving the remainder of his term


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament consisting of the National Assembly (400 seats;
members are elected by popular vote under a system of proportional
representation to serve five-year terms) and the National Council of
Provinces (90 seats, 10 members elected by each of the nine
provincial legislatures for five-year terms; has special powers to
protect regional interests, including the safeguarding of cultural
and linguistic traditions among ethnic minorities); note - following
the implementation of the new constitution on 4 February 1997, the
former Senate was disbanded and replaced by the National Council of
Provinces with essentially no change in membership and party
affiliations, although the new institution's responsibilities have
been changed somewhat by the new constitution
elections: National Assembly and National Council of Provinces -
last held on 14 April 2004 (next to be held in 2009)
election results: National Assembly - percent of vote by party - ANC
69.7%, DA 12.4%, IFP 7%, UDM 2.3%, NNP 1.7%, ACDP 1.6%, other 5.3%;
seats by party - ANC 279, DA 50, IFP 28, UDM 9, NNP 7, ACDP 6, other
21; National Council of Provinces - percent of vote by party - NA;
seats by party - NA


Judicial branch:

Constitutional Court; Supreme Court of Appeals; High Courts;
Magistrate Courts


Political parties and leaders:

African Christian Democratic Party or ACDP [Kenneth MESHOE]; African
National Congress or ANC [Jacob ZUMA]; Democratic Alliance or DA
[Helen ZILLE]; Freedom Front Plus or FF+ [Pieter MULDER]; Inkatha
Freedom Party or IFP [Mangosuthu BUTHELEZI]; New National Party or
NNP; Pan-Africanist Congress or PAC [Motsoko PHEKO]; United
Democratic Movement or UDM [Bantu HOLOMISA]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Congress of South African Trade Unions or COSATU [Zwelinzima VAVI,
general secretary]; South African Communist Party or SACP [Blade
NZIMANDE, general secretary]; South African National Civics
Organization or SANCO [Mlungisi HLONGWANE, national president]
note: note - COSATU and SACP are in a formal alliance with the ANC


International organization participation:

ACP, AfDB, AU, BIS, C, FAO, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt,
ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol,
IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MONUC, NAM, NSG, OPCW,
PCA, SACU, SADC, UN, UN Security Council (temporary), UNAMID,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNITAR, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU,
WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Welile Augustine NHLAPO
chancery: 3051 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 232-4400
FAX: [1] (202) 265-1607
consulate(s) general: Chicago, Los Angeles, New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Eric BOST
embassy: 877 Pretorius Street, Pretoria
mailing address: P. O. Box 9536, Pretoria 0001
telephone: [27] (12) 431-4000
FAX: [27] (12) 342-2299
consulate(s) general: Cape Town, Durban, Johannesburg


Flag description:

two equal width horizontal bands of red (top) and blue separated by
a central green band that splits into a horizontal Y, the arms of
which end at the corners of the hoist side; the Y embraces a black
isosceles triangle from which the arms are separated by narrow
yellow bands; the red and blue bands are separated from the green
band and its arms by narrow white stripes


Economy
South Africa



Economy - overview:

South Africa is a middle-income, emerging market with an abundant
supply of natural resources; well-developed financial, legal,
communications, energy, and transport sectors; a stock exchange that
is 17th largest in the world; and modern infrastructure supporting
an efficient distribution of goods to major urban centers throughout
the region. Growth has been robust since 2004, as South Africa has
reaped the benefits of macroeconomic stability and a global
commodities boom. However, unemployment remains high and outdated
infrastructure has constrained growth. At the end of 2007, South
Africa began to experience an electricity crisis because state power
supplier Eskom suffered supply problems with aged plants,
necessitating "load-shedding" cuts to residents and businesses in
the major cities. Daunting economic problems remain from the
apartheid era - especially poverty, lack of economic empowerment
among the disadvantaged groups, and a shortage of public
transportation. South African economic policy is fiscally
conservative but pragmatic, focusing on controlling inflation,
maintaining a budget surplus, and using state-owned enterprises to
deliver basic services to low-income areas as a means to increase
job growth and household income.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$467.8 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$282.6 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

5.1% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$9,700 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 3.2%
industry: 31.3%
services: 65.5% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

20.49 million economically active (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 9%
industry: 26%
services: 65% (2007 est.)


Unemployment rate:

24.3% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

50% (2000 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 1.4%
highest 10%: 44.7% (2000)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

65 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

20.6% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $83.47 billion
expenditures: $82.02 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 April - 31 March


Public debt:

31.3% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

6.5% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

11% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

13.17% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$58.49 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$141.9 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$254.9 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

corn, wheat, sugarcane, fruits, vegetables; beef, poultry, mutton,
wool, dairy products


Industries:

mining (world's largest producer of platinum, gold, chromium),
automobile assembly, metalworking, machinery, textiles, iron and
steel, chemicals, fertilizer, foodstuffs, commercial ship repair


Industrial production growth rate:

4.4% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

264 billion kWh (2007)


Electricity - consumption:

241.4 billion kWh (2007)


Electricity - exports:

13.77 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - imports:

11.32 billion kWh (2007)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 93.5%
hydro: 1.1%
nuclear: 5.5%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

199,100 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

504,900 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

267,700 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

319,000 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - proved reserves:

15 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

2.9 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

3.1 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2005)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

27.16 million cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$20.63 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$76.19 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

gold, diamonds, platinum, other metals and minerals, machinery and
equipment


Exports - partners:

US 11.9%, Japan 11.1%, Germany 8%, UK 7.7%, China 6.6%, Netherlands
4.5% (2007)


Imports:

$81.89 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, chemicals, petroleum products, scientific
instruments, foodstuffs


Imports - partners:

Germany 10.9%, China 10%, Spain 8.2%, US 7.2%, Japan 6.1%, UK 4.5%,
Saudi Arabia 4.2% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$700 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$32.94 billion (31 December 2007)


Debt - external:

$39.78 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$93.51 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$53.98 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$842 billion (January 2008)


Currency (code):

rand (ZAR)


Currency code:

ZAR


Exchange rates:

rand (ZAR) per US dollar - 7.05 (2007), 6.7649 (2006), 6.3593
(2005), 6.4597 (2004), 7.5648 (2003)


Communications
South Africa



Telephones - main lines in use:

4.642 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

42.3 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: the system is the best developed and most modern
in Africa
domestic: combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity is
nearly 110 telephones per 100 persons; consists of carrier-equipped
open-wire lines, coaxial cables, microwave radio relay links,
fiber-optic cable, radiotelephone communication stations, and
wireless local loops; key centers are Bloemfontein, Cape Town,
Durban, Johannesburg, Port Elizabeth, and Pretoria
international: country code - 27; the SAT-3/WASC and SAFE fiber
optic cable systems connect South Africa to Europe and Asia;
satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (1 Indian Ocean and 2 Atlantic
Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 14, FM 347 (plus 243 repeaters), shortwave 1 (1998)


Radios:

17 million (2001)


Television broadcast stations:

556 (plus 144 network repeaters) (1997)


Televisions:

6 million (2000)


Internet country code:

.za


Internet hosts:

1.297 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

150 (2001)


Internet users:

5.1 million (2005)


Transportation
South Africa



Airports:

728 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 146
over 3,047 m: 10
2,438 to 3,047 m: 5
1,524 to 2,437 m: 51
914 to 1,523 m: 67
under 914 m: 13 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 582
1,524 to 2,437 m: 34
914 to 1,523 m: 300
under 914 m: 248 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Pipelines:

condensate 100 km; gas 1,177 km; oil 992 km; refined products 1,379
km (2007)


Railways:

total: 20,872 km
narrow gauge: 20,436 km 1.065-m gauge (8,931 km electrified); 436 km
0.610-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 362,099 km
paved: 73,506 km (includes 239 km of expressways)
unpaved: 288,593 km (2002)


Merchant marine:

total: 3
by type: container 1, petroleum tanker 2
foreign-owned: 1 (Denmark 1)
registered in other countries: 8 (Bahamas 1, Nigeria 1, NZ 1, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines 1, Seychelles 1, UK 3) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Cape Town, Durban, Port Elizabeth, Richards Bay, Saldanha Bay


Military
South Africa



Military branches:

South African National Defense Force (SANDF): South African Army,
South African Navy (SAN), South African Air Force (SAAF), Joint
Operations Command, Military Intelligence, Military Health Services
(2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service; women have a long
history of military service in noncombat roles dating back to World
War I (2004)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 11,622,507
females age 16-49: 11,501,537 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 6,042,498
females age 16-49: 5,471,103 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 529,201
female: 522,678 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.7% of GDP (2006)


Military - note:

with the end of apartheid and the establishment of majority rule,
former military, black homelands forces, and ex-opposition forces
were integrated into the South African National Defense Force
(SANDF); as of 2003 the integration process was considered complete


Transnational Issues
South Africa



Disputes - international:

South Africa has placed military along the border to apprehend the
thousands of Zimbabweans fleeing economic dysfunction and political
persecution; as of January 2007, South Africa also supports large
numbers of refugees and asylum seekers from the Democratic Republic
of the Congo (33,000), Somalia (20,000), Burundi (6,500), and other
states in Africa (26,000); managed dispute with Namibia over the
location of the boundary in the Orange River; in 2006, Swazi king
advocates resort to ICJ to claim parts of Mpumalanga and
KwaZulu-Natal from South Africa


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 10,772 (Democratic Republic of Congo);
7,818 (Somalia); 5,759 (Angola) (2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: South Africa is a source, transit, and
destination country for men, women, and children trafficked for
forced labor and sexual exploitation; women and girls are trafficked
internally - and occasionally to European and Asian countries - for
sexual exploitation; women from other African countries are
trafficked to South Africa and, less frequently, onward to Europe
for sexual exploitation; men and boys are trafficked from
neighboring countries for forced agricultural labor; Asian and
Eastern European women are trafficked to South Africa for
debt-bonded sexual exploitation
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - South Africa is on the Tier 2 Watch
List for a fourth consecutive year for its failure to show
increasing efforts to address trafficking; the government provided
inadequate data in 2007 on trafficking crimes investigated or
prosecuted, or on resulting convictions or sentences; it also did
not provide information on its efforts to protect victims of
trafficking; the country continues to deport and/or prosecute
suspected foreign victims without providing appropriate protective
services (2008)


Illicit drugs:

transshipment center for heroin, hashish, and cocaine, as well as a
major cultivator of marijuana in its own right; cocaine and heroin
consumption on the rise; world's largest market for illicit
methaqualone, usually imported illegally from India through various
east African countries, but increasingly producing its own synthetic
drugs for domestic consumption; attractive venue for money
launderers given the increasing level of organized criminal and
narcotics activity in the region and the size of the South African
economy



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Southern Ocean

Introduction
Southern Ocean



Background:

A large body of recent oceanographic research has shown that the
Antarctic Circumpolar Current (ACC), an ocean current that flows
from west to east around Antarctica, plays a crucial role in global
ocean circulation. The region where the cold waters of the ACC meet
and mingle with the warmer waters of the north defines a distinct
border - the Antarctic Convergence - which fluctuates with the
seasons, but which encompasses a discrete body of water and a unique
ecologic region. The Convergence concentrates nutrients, which
promotes marine plant life, and which in turn allows for a greater
abundance of animal life. In the spring of 2000, the International
Hydrographic Organization decided to delimit the waters within the
Convergence as a fifth world ocean - the Southern Ocean - by
combining the southern portions of the Atlantic Ocean, Indian Ocean,
and Pacific Ocean. The Southern Ocean extends from the coast of
Antarctica north to 60 degrees south latitude, which coincides with
the Antarctic Treaty Limit and which approximates the extent of the
Antarctic Convergence. As such, the Southern Ocean is now the fourth
largest of the world's five oceans (after the Pacific Ocean,
Atlantic Ocean, and Indian Ocean, but larger than the Arctic Ocean).
It should be noted that inclusion of the Southern Ocean does not
imply recognition of this feature as one of the world's primary
oceans by the US Government.


Geography
Southern Ocean



Location:

body of water between 60 degrees south latitude and Antarctica


Geographic coordinates:

60 00 S, 90 00 E (nominally), but the Southern Ocean has the unique
distinction of being a large circumpolar body of water totally
encircling the continent of Antarctica; this ring of water lies
between 60 degrees south latitude and the coast of Antarctica and
encompasses 360 degrees of longitude


Map references:

Antarctic Region


Area:

total: 20.327 million sq km
note: includes Amundsen Sea, Bellingshausen Sea, part of the Drake
Passage, Ross Sea, a small part of the Scotia Sea, Weddell Sea, and
other tributary water bodies


Area - comparative:

slightly more than twice the size of the US


Coastline:

17,968 km


Climate:

sea temperatures vary from about 10 degrees Celsius to -2 degrees
Celsius; cyclonic storms travel eastward around the continent and
frequently are intense because of the temperature contrast between
ice and open ocean; the ocean area from about latitude 40 south to
the Antarctic Circle has the strongest average winds found anywhere
on Earth; in winter the ocean freezes outward to 65 degrees south
latitude in the Pacific sector and 55 degrees south latitude in the
Atlantic sector, lowering surface temperatures well below 0 degrees
Celsius; at some coastal points intense persistent drainage winds
from the interior keep the shoreline ice-free throughout the winter


Terrain:

the Southern Ocean is deep, 4,000 to 5,000 m over most of its extent
with only limited areas of shallow water; the Antarctic continental
shelf is generally narrow and unusually deep, its edge lying at
depths of 400 to 800 m (the global mean is 133 m); the Antarctic
icepack grows from an average minimum of 2.6 million sq km in March
to about 18.8 million sq km in September, better than a sixfold
increase in area; the Antarctic Circumpolar Current (21,000 km in
length) moves perpetually eastward; it is the world's largest ocean
current, transporting 130 million cubic meters of water per second -
100 times the flow of all the world's rivers


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: -7,235 m at the southern end of the South Sandwich
Trench
highest point: sea level 0 m


Natural resources:

probable large and possible giant oil and gas fields on the
continental margin; manganese nodules, possible placer deposits,
sand and gravel, fresh water as icebergs; squid, whales, and seals -
none exploited; krill, fish


Natural hazards:

huge icebergs with drafts up to several hundred meters; smaller
bergs and iceberg fragments; sea ice (generally 0.5 to 1 m thick)
with sometimes dynamic short-term variations and with large annual
and interannual variations; deep continental shelf floored by
glacial deposits varying widely over short distances; high winds and
large waves much of the year; ship icing, especially May-October;
most of region is remote from sources of search and rescue


Environment - current issues:

increased solar ultraviolet radiation resulting from the Antarctic
ozone hole in recent years, reducing marine primary productivity
(phytoplankton) by as much as 15% and damaging the DNA of some fish;
illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing in recent years,
especially the landing of an estimated five to six times more
Patagonian toothfish than the regulated fishery, which is likely to
affect the sustainability of the stock; large amount of incidental
mortality of seabirds resulting from long-line fishing for toothfish
note: the now-protected fur seal population is making a strong
comeback after severe overexploitation in the 18th and 19th centuries


Environment - international agreements:

the Southern Ocean is subject to all international agreements
regarding the world's oceans; in addition, it is subject to these
agreements specific to the Antarctic region: International Whaling
Commission (prohibits commercial whaling south of 40 degrees south
[south of 60 degrees south between 50 degrees and 130 degrees
west]); Convention on the Conservation of Antarctic Seals (limits
sealing); Convention on the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living
Resources (regulates fishing)
note: many nations (including the US) prohibit mineral resource
exploration and exploitation south of the fluctuating Polar Front
(Antarctic Convergence), which is in the middle of the Antarctic
Circumpolar Current and serves as the dividing line between the cold
polar surface waters to the south and the warmer waters to the north


Geography - note:

the major chokepoint is the Drake Passage between South America and
Antarctica; the Polar Front (Antarctic Convergence) is the best
natural definition of the northern extent of the Southern Ocean; it
is a distinct region at the middle of the Antarctic Circumpolar
Current that separates the cold polar surface waters to the south
from the warmer waters to the north; the Front and the Current
extend entirely around Antarctica, reaching south of 60 degrees
south near New Zealand and near 48 degrees south in the far South
Atlantic coinciding with the path of the maximum westerly winds




Economy
Southern Ocean



Economy - overview:

Fisheries in 2005-06 landed 128,081 metric tons, of which 83%
(106,591 tons) was krill (Euphausia superba) and 9.7% (12,364 tons)
Patagonian toothfish (Dissostichus eleginoides), compared to 147,506
tons in 2004-05 of which 86% (127,035 tons) was krill and 8% (11,821
tons) Patagonian toothfish (estimated fishing from the area covered
by the Convention of the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living
Resources (CCAMLR), which extends slightly beyond the Southern Ocean
area). International agreements were adopted in late 1999 to reduce
illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing, which in the 2000-01
season landed, by one estimate, 8,376 metric tons of Patagonian and
Antarctic toothfish. In the 2006-07 Antarctic summer, 35,552
tourists visited the Southern Ocean, compared to 29,799 in 2005-2006
(estimates provided to the Antarctic Treaty by the International
Association of Antarctica Tour Operators (IAATO), and does not
include passengers on overflights and those flying directly in and
out of Antarctica).



Transportation
Southern Ocean



Ports and terminals:

McMurdo, Palmer, and offshore anchorages in Antarctica
note: few ports or harbors exist on southern side of Southern Ocean;
ice conditions limit use of most to short periods in midsummer; even
then some cannot be entered without icebreaker escort; most
Antarctic ports are operated by government research stations and,
except in an emergency, are not open to commercial or private
vessels; vessels in any port south of 60 degrees south are subject
to inspection by observers under Article 7 of the Antarctic Treaty;
The Hydrographic Committee on Antarctica (HCA), a special
hydrographic commission of International Hydrographic Organization
(IHO), is responsible for hydrographic surveying and nautical
charting matters in Antarctic Treaty area; it coordinates and
facilitates provision of accurate and appropriate charts and other
aids to navigation in support of safety of navigation in region;
membership of HCA is open to any IHO Member State whose government
has acceded to the Antarctic Treaty and which contributes resources
and/or data to IHO Chart coverage of the area; members of HCA are
Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Chile, China, Ecuador, France,
Germany, Greece, India, Italy, NZ, Norway, Russia, South Africa,
Spain, UK, and US (2007)


Transportation - note:

Drake Passage offers alternative to transit through the Panama Canal



Transnational Issues
Southern Ocean



Disputes - international:

Antarctic Treaty defers claims (see Antarctica entry), but
Argentina, Australia, Chile, France, NZ, Norway, and UK assert
claims (some overlapping), including the continental shelf in the
Southern Ocean; several states have expressed an interest in
extending those continental shelf claims under the United Nations
Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) to include undersea
ridges; the US and most other states do not recognize the land or
maritime claims of other states and have made no claims themselves
(the US and Russia have reserved the right to do so); no formal
claims exist in the waters in the sector between 90 degrees west and
150 degrees west



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@South Georgia and the South Sandwich

Introduction
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands



Background:

The islands, which have large bird and seal populations, lie
approximately 1,000 km east of the Falkland Islands and have been
under British administration since 1908 - except for a brief period
in 1982 when Argentina occupied them. Grytviken, on South Georgia,
was a 19th and early 20th century whaling station. Famed explorer
Ernest SHACKLETON stopped there in 1914 en route to his ill-fated
attempt to cross Antarctica on foot. He returned some 20 months
later with a few companions in a small boat and arranged a
successful rescue for the rest of his crew, stranded off the
Antarctic Peninsula. He died in 1922 on a subsequent expedition and
is buried in Grytviken. Today, the station houses scientists from
the British Antarctic Survey. Recognizing the importance of
preserving the marine stocks in adjacent waters, the UK, in 1993,
extended the exclusive fishing zone from 12 nm to 200 nm around each
island.


Geography
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands



Location:

Southern South America, islands in the South Atlantic Ocean, east of
the tip of South America


Geographic coordinates:

54 30 S, 37 00 W


Map references:

Antarctic Region


Area:

total: 3,903 sq km
land: 3,903 sq km
water: 0 sq km
note: includes Shag Rocks, Black Rock, Clerke Rocks, South Georgia
Island, Bird Island, and the South Sandwich Islands, which consist
of 11 islands


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than Rhode Island


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

NA km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm


Climate:

variable, with mostly westerly winds throughout the year
interspersed with periods of calm; nearly all precipitation falls as
snow


Terrain:

most of the islands, rising steeply from the sea, are rugged and
mountainous; South Georgia is largely barren and has steep,
glacier-covered mountains; the South Sandwich Islands are of
volcanic origin with some active volcanoes


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Mount Paget (South Georgia) 2,934 m


Natural resources:

fish


Land use:

arable land: 0%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 100% (largely covered by permanent ice and snow with some
sparse vegetation consisting of grass, moss, and lichen) (2005)


Irrigated land:

0 sq km


Natural hazards:

the South Sandwich Islands have prevailing weather conditions that
generally make them difficult to approach by ship; they are also
subject to active volcanism


Environment - current issues:

NA


Geography - note:

the north coast of South Georgia has several large bays, which
provide good anchorage; reindeer, introduced early in the 20th
century, live on South Georgia


People
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands



Population:

no indigenous inhabitants
note: the small military garrison on South Georgia withdrew in March
2001 replaced by a permanent group of scientists of the British
Antarctic Survey, which also has a biological station on Bird
Island; the South Sandwich Islands are uninhabited


Government
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands



Country name:

conventional long form: South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
conventional short form: none
abbreviation: SGSSI


Dependency status:

overseas territory of the UK, also claimed by Argentina;
administered from the Falkland Islands by a commissioner, who is
concurrently governor of the Falkland Islands, representing Queen
ELIZABETH II


Legal system:

the laws of the UK, where applicable, apply; the senior magistrate
from the Falkland Islands presides over the Magistrates Court


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (overseas territory of the UK, also claimed by Argentina)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (overseas territory of the UK, also claimed by Argentina)


Flag description:

blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and
the South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands coat of arms
centered on the outer half of the flag; the coat of arms features a
shield with a golden lion centered; the shield is supported by a fur
seal on the left and a penguin on the right; a reindeer appears
above the shield, and below it on a scroll is the motto LEO TERRAM
PROPRIAM PROTEGAT (Let the Lion Protect its Own Land)


Economy
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands



Economy - overview:

Some fishing takes place in adjacent waters. There is a potential
source of income from harvesting finfish and krill. The islands
receive income from postage stamps produced in the UK, sale of
fishing licenses, and harbor and landing fees from tourist vessels.
Tourism from specialized cruise ships is increasing rapidly.


Communications
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands



Telephone system:

general assessment: NA
domestic: NA
international: coastal radiotelephone station at Grytviken


Radio broadcast stations:

0 (2003)


Television broadcast stations:

0 (2003)


Internet country code:

.gs


Internet hosts:

196 (2008)


Transportation
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands



Ports and terminals:

Grytviken


Military
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands



Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of the UK


Transnational Issues
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands



Disputes - international:

Argentina, which claims the islands in its constitution and briefly
occupied them by force in 1982, agreed in 1995 to no longer seek
settlement by force



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Spain

Introduction
Spain



Background:

Spain's powerful world empire of the 16th and 17th centuries
ultimately yielded command of the seas to England. Subsequent
failure to embrace the mercantile and industrial revolutions caused
the country to fall behind Britain, France, and Germany in economic
and political power. Spain remained neutral in World Wars I and II
but suffered through a devastating civil war (1936-39). A peaceful
transition to democracy following the death of dictator Francisco
FRANCO in 1975, and rapid economic modernization (Spain joined the
EU in 1986) have given Spain one of the most dynamic economies in
Europe and made it a global champion of freedom. Continuing
challenges include Basque Fatherland and Liberty (ETA) terrorism,
illegal immigration, and slowing economic growth.


Geography
Spain



Location:

Southwestern Europe, bordering the Bay of Biscay, Mediterranean Sea,
North Atlantic Ocean, and Pyrenees Mountains, southwest of France


Geographic coordinates:

40 00 N, 4 00 W


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 504,782 sq km
land: 499,542 sq km
water: 5,240 sq km
note: there are two autonomous cities - Ceuta and Melilla - and 17
autonomous communities including Balearic Islands and Canary
Islands, and three small Spanish possessions off the coast of
Morocco - Islas Chafarinas, Penon de Alhucemas, and Penon de Velez
de la Gomera


Area - comparative:

slightly more than twice the size of Oregon


Land boundaries:

total: 1,917.8 km
border countries: Andorra 63.7 km, France 623 km, Gibraltar 1.2 km,
Portugal 1,214 km, Morocco (Ceuta) 6.3 km, Morocco (Melilla) 9.6 km


Coastline:

4,964 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm (applies only to the Atlantic Ocean)


Climate:

temperate; clear, hot summers in interior, more moderate and cloudy
along coast; cloudy, cold winters in interior, partly cloudy and
cool along coast


Terrain:

large, flat to dissected plateau surrounded by rugged hills;
Pyrenees in north


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Pico de Teide (Tenerife) on Canary Islands 3,718 m


Natural resources:

coal, lignite, iron ore, copper, lead, zinc, uranium, tungsten,
mercury, pyrites, magnesite, fluorspar, gypsum, sepiolite, kaolin,
potash, hydropower, arable land


Land use:

arable land: 27.18%
permanent crops: 9.85%
other: 62.97% (2005)


Irrigated land:

37,800 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

111.1 cu km (2005)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 37.22 cu km/yr (13%/19%/68%)
per capita: 864 cu m/yr (2002)


Natural hazards:

periodic droughts


Environment - current issues:

pollution of the Mediterranean Sea from raw sewage and effluents
from the offshore production of oil and gas; water quality and
quantity nationwide; air pollution; deforestation; desertification


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants


Geography - note:

strategic location along approaches to Strait of Gibraltar


People
Spain



Population:

40,491,052 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 14.4% (male 3,011,815/female 2,832,788)
15-64 years: 67.6% (male 13,741,493/female 13,641,914)
65 years and over: 17.9% (male 3,031,597/female 4,231,444) (2008
est.)


Median age:

total: 40.7 years
male: 39.3 years
female: 42.1 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.096% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

9.87 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

9.9 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

0.99 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.07 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.72 male(s)/female
total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 4.26 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 4.65 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 3.85 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 79.92 years
male: 76.6 years
female: 83.45 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.3 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.7% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

140,000 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 1,000 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Spaniard(s)
adjective: Spanish


Ethnic groups:

composite of Mediterranean and Nordic types


Religions:

Roman Catholic 94%, other 6%


Languages:

Castilian Spanish (official) 74%, Catalan 17%, Galician 7%, Basque
2%, are official regionally


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 97.9%
male: 98.7%
female: 97.2% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 16 years
male: 16 years
female: 17 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

4.2% of GDP (2005)


Government
Spain



Country name:

conventional long form: Kingdom of Spain
conventional short form: Spain
local long form: Reino de Espana
local short form: Espana


Government type:

parliamentary monarchy


Capital:

name: Madrid
geographic coordinates: 40 24 N, 3 41 W
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October
note: Spain is divided into two time zones including the Canary
Islands


Administrative divisions:

17 autonomous communities (comunidades autonomas, singular -
comunidad autonoma) and 2 autonomous cities* (ciudades autonomas,
singular - ciudad autonoma); Andalucia, Aragon, Asturias, Baleares
(Balearic Islands), Ceuta*, Canarias (Canary Islands), Cantabria,
Castilla-La Mancha, Castilla y Leon, Cataluna (Catalonia), Comunidad
Valenciana (Valencian Community), Extremadura, Galicia, La Rioja,
Madrid, Melilla*, Murcia, Navarra, Pais Vasco (Basque Country)
note: the autonomous cities of Ceuta and Melilla plus three small
islands of Islas Chafarinas, Penon de Alhucemas, and Penon de Velez
de la Gomera, administered directly by the Spanish central
government, are all along the coast of Morocco and are collectively
referred to as Places of Sovereignty (Plazas de Soberania)


Independence:

the Iberian peninsula was characterized by a variety of independent
kingdoms prior to the Muslim occupation that began in the early 8th
century A.D. and lasted nearly seven centuries; the small Christian
redoubts of the north began the reconquest almost immediately,
culminating in the seizure of Granada in 1492; this event completed
the unification of several kingdoms and is traditionally considered
the forging of present-day Spain


National holiday:

National Day, 12 October (1492); year when Columbus first set foot
in the Americas


Constitution:

approved by legislature 31 October 1978; passed by referendum 6
December 1978, effective 29 December 1978


Legal system:

civil law system, with regional applications; accepts compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: King JUAN CARLOS I (since 22 November 1975); Heir
Apparent Prince FELIPE, son of the monarch, born 30 January 1968
head of government: President of the Government (Prime Minister
equivalent) Jose Luis Rodriguez ZAPATERO (since 17 April 2004);
First Vice President (and Minister of the Presidency) Maria Teresa
FERNANDEZ DE LA VEGA (since 18 April 2004) and Second Vice President
(and Minister of Economy and Finance) Pedro SOLBES Mira (since 18
April 2004)
cabinet: Council of Ministers designated by the president
note: there is also a Council of State that is the supreme
consultative organ of the government, but its recommendations are
non-binding
elections: the monarchy is hereditary; following legislative
elections, the leader of the majority party or the leader of the
majority coalition is usually proposed president by the monarch and
elected by the National Assembly; election last held on 9 and 11
April 2008 (next to be held in March 2012); vice presidents
appointed by the monarch on the proposal of the president
election results: Jose Luis Rodriguez ZAPATERO reelected President
of the Government; percent of National Assembly vote - 46.94%


Legislative branch:

bicameral; General Courts or National Assembly or Las Cortes
Generales consists of the Senate or Senado (264 seats as of 2008;
208 members directly elected by popular vote and the other 56 - as
of 2008 - appointed by the regional legislatures; to serve four-year
terms) and the Congress of Deputies or Congreso de los Diputados
(350 seats; each of the 50 electoral provinces fills a minimum of
two seats and the North African enclaves of Ceuta and Melilla fill
one seat each with members serving a four-year term; the other 248
members are determined by proportional representation based on
popular vote on block lists who serve four-year terms)
elections: Senate - last held on 9 March 2008 (next to be held in
March 2012); Congress of Deputies - last held on 9 March 2008 (next
to be held in March 2012)
election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - PP 101, PSOE 88, Entesa Catalona de Progress 12, CiU 4, PNV
2, CC 1, members appointed by regional legislatures 56; Congress of
Deputies - percent of vote by party - PSOE 43.6%, PP 40.1%, CiU
3.1%, PNV 1.2%, ERC 1.2%, other 10.8%; seats by party - PSOE 169, PP
154, CiU 10, PNV 6, ERC 3, other 8


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court or Tribunal Supremo


Political parties and leaders:

Aragonese Party or CHA [Bizen FUSTER]; Basque Nationalist Party or
PNV [Inigo URKULLU]; Basque Solidarity or EA [Begona ERRAZTI];
Canarian Coalition or CC [Jose Torres STINGA] (a coalition of five
parties); Convergence and Union or CiU [Artur MAS i Gavarro] (a
coalition of the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia or CDC [Artur
MAS i Gavarro] and the Democratic Union of Catalonia or UDC [Josep
Antoni DURAN i LLEIDA]); Entesa Catalonia de Progress (a Senate
coalition grouping four Catalan parties - PSC, ERC, ICV, EUA);
Galician Nationalist Bloc or BNG [Anxo Manuel QUINTANA Gonzalez];
Initiative for Catalonia Greens or ICV [Joan SAURA i Laporta];
Navarra yes or Na Bai [Uxue BARKOS Berruezo] (a coalition of four
Navarran parties); Popular Party or PP [Mariano RAJOY Brey];
Republican Left of Catalonia or ERC [Josep-Lluis CAROD-ROVIRA];
Spanish Socialist Workers Party or PSOE [Jose Luis Rodriguez
ZAPATERO]; United Left or IU [Gaspar LLAMAZARES Trigo] (a coalition
of parties including the PCE and other small parties)


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Association for Victims of Terrorism or AVT (grassroots organization
devoted primarily to opposing ETA terrorist attacks and supporting
its victims); Basta Ya (Spanish for "Enough is Enough"; grassroots
organization devoted primarily to opposing ETA terrorist attacks and
supporting its victims); Nunca Mais (Galician for "Never Again";
formed in response to the oil Tanker Prestige oil spill); Socialist
General Union of Workers or UGT and the smaller independent Workers
Syndical Union or USO; Trade Union Confederation of Workers'
Commissions or CC.OO.
other: business and landowning interests; Catholic Church; free
labor unions (authorized in April 1977); university students


International organization participation:

ADB (nonregional members), AfDB (nonregional members), Arctic
Council (observer), Australia Group, BCIE, BIS, CE, CERN, EAPC,
EBRD, EIB, EMU, ESA, EU, FAO, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt,
ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO,
Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAIA (observer),
MIGA, MINURCAT, MONUC, NAM (guest), NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer),
OECD, OPCW, OSCE, Paris Club, PCA, Schengen Convention, SECI
(observer), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, Union Latina,
UNRWA, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WEU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Jorge DEZCALLAR de Mazarredo
chancery: 2375 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20037
telephone: [1] (202) 452-0100, 728-2340
FAX: [1] (202) 833-5670
consulate(s) general: Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami,
New Orleans, New York, San Francisco, San Juan (Puerto Rico)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Eduardo AGUIRRE, Jr.
embassy: Serrano 75, 28006 Madrid
mailing address: PSC 61, APO AE 09642
telephone: [34] (91) 587-2200
FAX: [34] (91) 587-2303
consulate(s) general: Barcelona


Flag description:

three horizontal bands of red (top), yellow (double width), and red
with the national coat of arms on the hoist side of the yellow band;
the coat of arms is quartered to display the emblems of the
traditional kingdoms of Spain (clockwise from upper left, Castile,
Leon, Navarre, and Aragon) while Granada is represented by the
stylized pomegranate at the bottom of the shield; the arms are
framed by two columns representing the Pillars of Hercules, which
are the two promontories (Gibraltar and Ceuta) on either side of the
eastern end of the Strait of Gibraltar; the red scroll across the
two columns bears the imperial motto of "Plus Ultra" (further
beyond) referring to Spanish lands beyond Europe


Economy
Spain



Economy - overview:

The Spanish economy boomed from 1986 to 1990 averaging 5% annual
growth. After a European-wide recession in the early 1990s, the
Spanish economy resumed moderate growth starting in 1994. Spain's
mixed capitalist economy supports a GDP that on a per capita basis
is equal to that of the leading West European economies. The
center-right government of former President Jose Maria AZNAR
successfully worked to gain admission to the first group of
countries launching the European single currency (the euro) on 1
January 1999. The AZNAR administration continued to advocate
liberalization, privatization, and deregulation of the economy and
introduced some tax reforms to that end. Unemployment fell steadily
under the AZNAR administration but remains high at 7.6%. Growth
averaging more than 3% annually during 2003-07 was satisfactory
given the background of a faltering European economy. The Socialist
president, Jose Luis Rodriguez ZAPATERO, has made mixed progress in
carrying out key structural reforms, which need to be accelerated
and deepened to sustain Spain's economic growth. Despite the
economy's relative solid footing significant downside risks remain
including Spain's continued loss of competitiveness, the potential
for a housing market collapse, the country's changing demographic
profile, and a decline in EU structural funds.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$1.361 trillion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$1.439 trillion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

3.8% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$33,600 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 3.6%
industry: 30.2%
services: 66.1% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

22.19 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 5.3%
industry: 30.1%
services: 64.6% (2004 est.)


Unemployment rate:

8.3% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

19.8% (2005)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.6%
highest 10%: 26.6% (2000)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

32 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

31.1% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $588.5 billion
expenditures: $556.5 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

36.2% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.8% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

NA


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

9.89% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

NA
note: see entry for the European Union for money supply in the Euro
Area; the European Central Bank (ECB) controls monetary policy for
the 15 members of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU); individual
members of the EMU do not control the quantity of money and quasi
money circulating within their own borders


Stock of quasi money:

NA (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$3.177 trillion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

grain, vegetables, olives, wine grapes, sugar beets, citrus; beef,
pork, poultry, dairy products; fish


Industries:

textiles and apparel (including footwear), food and beverages,
metals and metal manufactures, chemicals, shipbuilding, automobiles,
machine tools, tourism, clay and refractory products, footwear,
pharmaceuticals, medical equipment


Industrial production growth rate:

3.1% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

287.4 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

254.1 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

14.52 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

8.773 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 50.4%
hydro: 18.2%
nuclear: 27.2%
other: 4.1% (2001)


Oil - production:

29,000 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

1.611 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

181,800 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

1.777 million bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

150 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

88 million cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

34.43 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

34.47 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

2.548 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$145.3 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$256.7 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

machinery, motor vehicles; foodstuffs, pharmaceuticals, medicines,
other consumer goods


Exports - partners:

France 18.8%, Germany 10.8%, Portugal 8.6%, Italy 8.5%, UK 7.6%, US
4.2% (2007)


Imports:

$380.2 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, fuels, chemicals, semifinished goods,
foodstuffs, consumer goods, measuring and medical control instruments


Imports - partners:

Germany 15.7%, France 12.7%, Italy 8.4%, China 5.8%, UK 4.8%,
Netherlands 4.6% (2007)


Economic aid - donor:

ODA, $3.814 billion (2006)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$19.05 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$1.084 trillion (30 June 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$568.8 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$681.7 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$960 billion (2005)


Currency (code):

euro (EUR)


Currency code:

EUR


Exchange rates:

euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006), 0.8041
(2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)


Communications
Spain



Telephones - main lines in use:

18.583 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

48.813 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: well developed, modern facilities; fixed-line
teledensity is about 45 per 100 persons
domestic: combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity is
nearly 170 telephones per 100 persons
international: country code - 34; submarine cables provide
connectivity to Europe, Middle East, Asia, and US; satellite earth
stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Atlantic Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean), NA
Eutelsat; tropospheric scatter to adjacent countries


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 208, FM 715, shortwave 1 (1998)


Radios:

13.1 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

224 (plus 2,105 repeaters; includes 11 television broadcast stations
and 88 repeaters in the Canary Islands) (1995)


Televisions:

16.2 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.es


Internet hosts:

3.264 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

56 (2000)


Internet users:

19.69 million (2007)


Transportation
Spain



Airports:

154 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 96
over 3,047 m: 18
2,438 to 3,047 m: 11
1,524 to 2,437 m: 18
914 to 1,523 m: 25
under 914 m: 24 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 58
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 14
under 914 m: 42 (2007)


Heliports:

8 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 7,858 km; oil 622 km; refined products 3,445 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 14,974 km
broad gauge: 11,919 km 1.668-m gauge (6,950 km electrified)
standard gauge: 1,099 km 1.435-m gauge (1,054 km electrified)
narrow gauge: 1,928 km 1.000-m gauge (815 km electrified); 28 km
0.914-m gauge (28 km electrified) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 681,224 km
paved: 681,224 km (includes 13,872 km of expressways) (2006)


Waterways:

1,000 km (2003)


Merchant marine:

total: 158
by type: bulk carrier 9, cargo 14, chemical tanker 11, container 22,
liquefied gas 11, passenger 1, passenger/cargo 47, petroleum tanker
16, refrigerated cargo 5, roll on/roll off 15, specialized tanker 2,
vehicle carrier 5
foreign-owned: 26 (Canada 3, Canada 1, Denmark 2, Germany 5, Italy
2, Mexico 3, Norway 5, UK 3, UK 2)
registered in other countries: 110 (Angola 1, Argentina 2, Bahamas
14, Belize 1, Brazil 9, Cape Verde 1, Cuba 1, Cyprus 6, Malta 3,
Marshall Islands 1, Nigeria 1, Panama 50, Portugal 11, Saint Kitts
and Nevis 1, UK 1, Uruguay 6, Venezuela 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Algeciras, Barcelona, Bilbao, Cartagena, Huelva, Tarragona, Valencia


Military
Spain



Military branches:

Spanish Armed Forces: Army (Ejercito de Tierra), Spanish Navy
(Armada Espanola, AE; includes Marine Corps), Spanish Air Force
(Ejercito del Aire Espanola, EdA) (2007)


Military service age and obligation:

20 years of age (2004)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 10,033,069
females age 16-49: 9,764,937 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 8,228,426
females age 16-49: 7,990,678 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 203,650
female: 191,352 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.2% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Spain



Disputes - international:

in 2002, Gibraltar residents voted overwhelmingly by referendum to
remain a British colony and against a "total shared sovereignty"
arrangement while demanding participation in talks between the UK
and Spain; Spain disapproves of UK plans to grant Gibraltar greater
autonomy; Morocco protests Spain's control over the coastal enclaves
of Ceuta, Melilla, and the islands of Penon de Velez de la Gomera,
Penon de Alhucemas and Islas Chafarinas, and surrounding waters;
Morocco serves as the primary launching site of illegal migration
into Spain from North Africa; Portugal does not recognize Spanish
sovereignty over the territory of Olivenza based on a difference of
interpretation of the 1815 Congress of Vienna and the 1801 Treaty of
Badajoz


Illicit drugs:

despite rigorous law enforcement efforts, North African, Latin
American, Galician, and other European traffickers take advantage of
Spain's long coastline to land large shipments of cocaine and
hashish for distribution to the European market; consumer for Latin
American cocaine and North African hashish; destination and minor
transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin; money-laundering
site for Colombian narcotics trafficking organizations and organized
crime



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Spratly Islands

Introduction
Spratly Islands



Background:

The Spratly Islands consist of more than 100 small islands or reefs.
They are surrounded by rich fishing grounds and potentially by gas
and oil deposits. They are claimed in their entirety by China,
Taiwan, and Vietnam, while portions are claimed by Malaysia and the
Philippines. About 45 islands are occupied by relatively small
numbers of military forces from China, Malaysia, the Philippines,
Taiwan, and Vietnam. Brunei has established a fishing zone that
overlaps a southern reef but has not made any formal claim.


Geography
Spratly Islands



Location:

Southeastern Asia, group of reefs and islands in the South China
Sea, about two-thirds of the way from southern Vietnam to the
southern Philippines


Geographic coordinates:

8 38 N, 111 55 E


Map references:

Southeast Asia


Area:

total: less than 5 sq km
land: less than 5 sq km
water: 0 sq km
note: includes 100 or so islets, coral reefs, and sea mounts
scattered over an area of nearly 410,000 sq km of the central South
China Sea


Area - comparative:

NA


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

926 km


Maritime claims:

NA


Climate:

tropical


Terrain:

flat


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: South China Sea 0 m
highest point: unnamed location on Southwest Cay 4 m


Natural resources:

fish, guano, undetermined oil and natural gas potential


Land use:

arable land: 0%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 100% (2005)


Irrigated land:

0 sq km


Natural hazards:

typhoons; numerous reefs and shoals pose a serious maritime hazard


Environment - current issues:

NA


Geography - note:

strategically located near several primary shipping lanes in the
central South China Sea; includes numerous small islands, atolls,
shoals, and coral reefs


People
Spratly Islands



Population:

no indigenous inhabitants
note: there are scattered garrisons occupied by personnel of several
claimant states


Government
Spratly Islands



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Spratly Islands


Economy
Spratly Islands



Economy - overview:

Economic activity is limited to commercial fishing. The proximity to
nearby oil- and gas-producing sedimentary basins suggests the
potential for oil and gas deposits, but the region is largely
unexplored. There are no reliable estimates of potential reserves.
Commercial exploitation has yet to be developed.



Transportation
Spratly Islands



Airports:

3 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)


Heliports:

3 (2007)


Ports and terminals:

none; offshore anchorage only


Military
Spratly Islands



Military - note:

Spratly Islands consist of more than 100 small islands or reefs of
which about 45 are claimed and occupied by China, Malaysia, the
Philippines, Taiwan, and Vietnam


Transnational Issues
Spratly Islands



Disputes - international:

all of the Spratly Islands are claimed by China, Taiwan, and
Vietnam; parts of them are claimed by Malaysia and the Philippines;
in 1984, Brunei established an exclusive fishing zone that
encompasses Louisa Reef in the southern Spratly Islands but has not
publicly claimed the reef; claimants in November 2002 signed the
"Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea,"
which has eased tensions but falls short of a legally binding "code
of conduct"; in March 2005, the national oil companies of China, the
Philippines, and Vietnam signed a joint accord to conduct marine
seismic activities in the Spratly Islands



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Sri Lanka

Introduction
Sri Lanka



Background:

The first Sinhalese arrived in Sri Lanka late in the 6th century
B.C. probably from northern India. Buddhism was introduced in about
the mid-third century B.C., and a great civilization developed at
the cities of Anuradhapura (kingdom from circa 200 B.C. to circa
A.D. 1000) and Polonnaruwa (from about 1070 to 1200). In the 14th
century, a south Indian dynasty established a Tamil kingdom in
northern Sri Lanka. The coastal areas of the island were controlled
by the Portuguese in the 16th century and by the Dutch in the 17th
century. The island was ceded to the British in 1796, became a crown
colony in 1802, and was united under British rule by 1815. As
Ceylon, it became independent in 1948; its name was changed to Sri
Lanka in 1972. Tensions between the Sinhalese majority and Tamil
separatists erupted into war in 1983. Tens of thousands have died in
the ethnic conflict that continues to fester. After two decades of
fighting, the government and Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE)
formalized a cease-fire in February 2002 with Norway brokering peace
negotiations. Violence between the LTTE and government forces
intensified in 2006 and the government regained control of the
Eastern Province in 2007. In January 2008, the government officially
withdrew from the ceasefire, and has begun engaging the LTTE in the
northern portion of the country.


Geography
Sri Lanka



Location:

Southern Asia, island in the Indian Ocean, south of India


Geographic coordinates:

7 00 N, 81 00 E


Map references:

Asia


Area:

total: 65,610 sq km
land: 64,740 sq km
water: 870 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than West Virginia


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

1,340 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin


Climate:

tropical monsoon; northeast monsoon (December to March); southwest
monsoon (June to October)


Terrain:

mostly low, flat to rolling plain; mountains in south-central
interior


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
highest point: Pidurutalagala 2,524 m


Natural resources:

limestone, graphite, mineral sands, gems, phosphates, clay,
hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 13.96%
permanent crops: 15.24%
other: 70.8% (2005)


Irrigated land:

7,430 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

50 cu km (1999)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 12.61 cu km/yr (2%/2%/95%)
per capita: 608 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

occasional cyclones and tornadoes


Environment - current issues:

deforestation; soil erosion; wildlife populations threatened by
poaching and urbanization; coastal degradation from mining
activities and increased pollution; freshwater resources being
polluted by industrial wastes and sewage runoff; waste disposal; air
pollution in Colombo


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Marine Life Conservation


Geography - note:

strategic location near major Indian Ocean sea lanes


People
Sri Lanka



Population:

21,128,772
note: since the outbreak of hostilities between the government and
armed Tamil separatists in the mid-1980s, several hundred thousand
Tamil civilians have fled the island and more than 200,000 Tamils
have sought refuge in the West (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 24.1% (male 2,596,463/female 2,495,136)
15-64 years: 68% (male 7,019,446/female 7,340,809)
65 years and over: 7.9% (male 783,823/female 893,096) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 30.4 years
male: 29.5 years
female: 31.4 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.943% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

16.63 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

6.07 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-1.12 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.04 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.96 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.88 male(s)/female
total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 19.01 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 20.76 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 17.17 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 74.97 years
male: 72.95 years
female: 77.08 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.02 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

less than 0.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

3,500 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 200 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A
vectorborne disease: dengue fever and malaria
water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Sri Lankan(s)
adjective: Sri Lankan


Ethnic groups:

Sinhalese 73.8%, Sri Lankan Moors 7.2%, Indian Tamil 4.6%, Sri
Lankan Tamil 3.9%, other 0.5%, unspecified 10% (2001 census
provisional data)


Religions:

Buddhist 69.1%, Muslim 7.6%, Hindu 7.1%, Christian 6.2%, unspecified
10% (2001 census provisional data)


Languages:

Sinhala (official and national language) 74%, Tamil (national
language) 18%, other 8%
note: English is commonly used in government and is spoken
competently by about 10% of the population


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 90.7%
male: 92.3%
female: 89.1% (2001 census)


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Sri Lanka



Country name:

conventional long form: Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
conventional short form: Sri Lanka
local long form: Shri Lamka Prajatantrika Samajaya di
Janarajaya/Ilankai Jananayaka Choshalichak Kutiyarachu
local short form: Shri Lamka/Ilankai
former: Serendib, Ceylon


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Colombo
geographic coordinates: 6 56 N, 79 51 E
time difference: UTC+5.5 (10.5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
note: Sri Jayewardenepura Kotte (legislative capital)


Administrative divisions:

8 provinces; Central, North Central, North Eastern, North Western,
Sabaragamuwa, Southern, Uva, Western
note: in October 2006, a Sri Lankan Supreme Court ruling voided a
presidential directive merging the North and Eastern Provinces; many
have defended the merger as a prerequisite for a negotiated
settlement to the ethnic conflict; a parliamentary decision on the
issue is pending


Independence:

4 February 1948 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 4 February (1948)


Constitution:

adopted 16 August 1978, certified 31 August 1978


Legal system:

a highly complex mixture of English common law, Roman-Dutch,
Kandyan, and Jaffna Tamil law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Mahinda RAJAPAKSA (since 19 November
2005); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government; Ratnasiri WICKREMANAYAKE (since 21 November 2005) holds
the largely ceremonial title of prime minister
head of government: President Mahinda RAJAPAKSA (since 19 November
2005)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president in consultation with the
prime minister
elections: president elected by popular vote for a six-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held on 17 November 2005
(next to be held in 2011)
election results: Mahinda RAJAPAKSA elected president; percent of
vote - Mahinda RAJAPAKSA 50.3%, Ranil WICKREMESINGHE 48.4%, other
1.3%


Legislative branch:

unicameral Parliament (225 seats; members elected by popular vote on
the basis of an open-list, proportional representation system by
electoral district to serve six-year terms)
elections: last held on 2 April 2004 (next to be held by 2010)
election results: percent of vote by party or electoral alliance -
SLFP and JVP (no longer in formal UPFA alliance) 45.6%, UNP 37.8%,
TNA 6.8%, JHU 6%, SLMC 2%, UPF 0.5%, EPDP 0.3%, other 1%; seats by
party - UNP 68, SLFP 57, JVP 39, TNA 22, CWC 8, JHU 7, SLMC 6, SLMC
dissidents 4, Communist Party 2, JHU dissidents 2, LSSP 2, MEP 2,
NUA 2, UPF 2, EPDP 1, UNP dissident 1


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court; Court of Appeals; judges for both courts are
appointed by the president


Political parties and leaders:

All Ceylon Tamil Congress or ACTC [G.PONNAMBALAM]; Ceylon Workers
Congress or CWC [Arumugam THONDAMAN]; Communist Party or CP [D.
GUNASEKERA]; Eelam People's Democratic Party or EPDP [Douglas
DEVANANDA]; Eelam People's Revolutionary Liberation Front or EPRLF
[Suresh PREMACHANDRAN]; Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna or JVP [Somawansa
AMARASINGHE]; Lanka Sama Samaja Party or LSSP [Tissa VITHARANA];
Mahajana Eksath Peramuna (People's United Front) or MEP [D.
GUNAWARDENE]; National Heritage Party or JHU [Ellawala METHANANDA];
National Unity Alliance or NUA [Ferial ASHRAFF]; People's Liberation
Organization of Tamil Eelam or PLOTE [D. SIDHARTHAN]; Sri Lanka
Freedom Party or SLFP [Mahinda RAJAPAKSA]; Sri Lanka Muslim Congress
or SLMC [Rauff HAKEEM]; Tamil Eelam Liberation Organization or TELO
[Selvam ADAIKALANATHAN]; Tamil National Alliance or TNA [R.
SAMPANTHAN]; Tamil United Liberation Front or TULF [V.
ANANDASANGAREE]; United National Party or UNP [Ranil
WICKREMASINGHE]; Up-country People's Front or UPF [P. CHANDRASEKARAN]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam or LTTE [Velupillai
PRABHAKARAN](insurgent group fighting for a separate state); Tamil
Makkal Viduthalai Pulikal (TMVP) or Karuna Faction [Vinayagamurthi
MURALITHARAN] (paramilitary breakaway from LTTE and fighting LTTE)
other: Buddhist clergy; labor unions; radical chauvinist Sinhalese
groups such as the National Movement Against Terrorism; Sinhalese
Buddhist lay groups


International organization participation:

ADB, BIMSTEC, C, CP, FAO, G-15, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol,
IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURSO, MINUSTAH, MONUC,
NAM, OAS (observer), OPCW, PCA, SAARC, SACEP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNIDO, UNMIS, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Jaliya WICKRAMASURIYA
chancery: 2148 Wyoming Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 483-4025 (through 4028)
FAX: [1] (202) 232-7181
consulate(s) general: Los Angeles
consulate(s): New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Robert O. BLAKE, Jr.
embassy: 210 Galle Road, Colombo 3
mailing address: P. O. Box 106, Colombo
telephone: [94] (11) 249-8500
FAX: [94] (11) 243-7345


Flag description:

yellow with two panels; the smaller hoist-side panel has two equal
vertical bands of green (hoist side) and orange; the other panel is
a large dark red rectangle with a yellow lion holding a sword, and
there is a yellow bo leaf in each corner; the yellow field appears
as a border around the entire flag and extends between the two panels


Economy
Sri Lanka



Economy - overview:

In 1977, Colombo abandoned statist economic policies and its import
substitution trade policy for more market-oriented policies,
export-oriented trade, and encouragement of foreign investment.
Recent changes in government, however, have brought some policy
reversals. Currently, the ruling Sri Lanka Freedom Party has a more
statist economic approach, which seeks to reduce poverty by steering
investment to disadvantaged areas, developing small and medium
enterprises, promoting agriculture, and expanding the already
enormous civil service. The government has halted privatizations.
Although suffering a brutal civil war that began in 1983, Sri Lanka
saw GDP growth average 4.5% in the last 10 years with the exception
of a recession in 2001. In late December 2004, a major tsunami took
about 31,000 lives, left more than 6,300 missing and 443,000
displaced, and destroyed an estimated $1.5 billion worth of
property. Government spending and reconstruction drove growth to
more than 7% in 2006 but reduced agriculture output probably slowed
growth to about 6 percent in 2007. Government spending and loose
monetary policy drove inflation to nearly 16% in 2007. Sri Lanka's
most dynamic sectors now are food processing, textiles and apparel,
food and beverages, port construction, telecommunications, and
insurance and banking. In 2006, plantation crops made up only about
15% of exports (compared with more than 90% in 1970), while textiles
and garments accounted for more than 60%. About 800,000 Sri Lankans
work abroad, 90% of them in the Middle East. They send home more
than $1 billion a year. The struggle by the Tamil Tigers of the
north and east for an independent homeland continues to cast a
shadow over the economy.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$82.02 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$30.01 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6.8% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$4,000 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 11.7%
industry: 29.9%
services: 58.4% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

7.489 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 34.3%
industry: 25.3%
services: 40.4% (30 June 2006 est.)


Unemployment rate:

6% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

22% (2002 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 1.1%
highest 10%: 39.7% (FY03/04)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

50 (FY03/04)


Investment (gross fixed):

24.7% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $5.384 billion
expenditures: $7.608 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

85.8% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

15.8% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

15% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

17.08% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$2.465 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$10.46 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$14.82 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

rice, sugarcane, grains, pulses, oilseed, spices, tea, rubber,
coconuts; milk, eggs, hides, beef; fish


Industries:

processing of rubber, tea, coconuts, tobacco and other agricultural
commodities; telecommunications, insurance, banking; clothing,
textiles; cement, petroleum refining


Industrial production growth rate:

7.6% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

8.317 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

6.884 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 51.7%
hydro: 48.3%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - consumption:

86,030 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

291.9 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

87,090 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$1.019 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$8.135 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

textiles and apparel, tea and spices; diamonds, emeralds, rubies;
coconut products, rubber manufactures, fish


Exports - partners:

US 25.5%, UK 13.2%, India 6.7%, Germany 5.7%, Italy 5.1% (2007)


Imports:

$10.36 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

textile fabrics, mineral products, petroleum, foodstuffs, machinery
and transportation equipment


Imports - partners:

India 23.1%, Singapore 9.9%, China 8.2%, Iran 7.5%, Hong Kong 6.4%
(2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$1.189 billion (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$3.644 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$12.2 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$NA


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$7.769 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

Sri Lankan rupee (LKR)


Currency code:

LKR


Exchange rates:

Sri Lankan rupees (LKR) per US dollar - 110.78 (2007), 103.99
(2006), 100.498 (2005), 101.194 (2004), 96.521 (2003)


Communications
Sri Lanka



Telephones - main lines in use:

2.742 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

7.983 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: telephone services have improved significantly
and are available in most parts of the country
domestic: national trunk network consists mostly of digital
microwave radio relay; fiber-optic links now in use in Colombo area
and fixed wireless local loops have been installed; competition is
strong in mobile cellular systems and mobile cellular subscribership
is increasing; combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity
is about 50 per 100 persons
international: country code - 94; the SEA-ME-WE-3 and SEA-ME-WE-4
submarine cables provide connectivity to Asia, Australia, Middle
East, Europe, US; satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Indian
Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 15, FM 52, shortwave 4 (2007)


Radios:

3.85 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

14 (2006)


Televisions:

1.53 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.lk


Internet hosts:

4,940 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

5 (2000)


Internet users:

771,700 (2007)


Transportation
Sri Lanka



Airports:

18 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 14
over 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 6
914 to 1,523 m: 7 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 4
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 3 (2007)


Railways:

total: 1,449 km
broad gauge: 1,449 km 1.676-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 97,286 km
paved: 78,802 km
unpaved: 18,484 km (2003)


Waterways:

160 km (primarily on rivers in southwest) (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 26
by type: bulk carrier 4, cargo 18, chemical tanker 1, container 1,
petroleum tanker 2
foreign-owned: 5 (Germany 5)
registered in other countries: 1 (Panama 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Colombo


Military
Sri Lanka



Military branches:

Sri Lanka Army, Sri Lanka Navy, Sri Lanka Air Force (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service (2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 5,458,720
females age 16-49: 5,594,006 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 4,477,437
females age 16-49: 4,683,716 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 174,065
female: 168,593 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

2.6% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Sri Lanka



Disputes - international:

none


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

IDPs: 460,000 (both Tamils and non-Tamils displaced due to long-term
civil war between the government and the separatist Liberation
Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE)) (2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Sri Lanka is a source and destination country for
men and women trafficked for the purposes of involuntary servitude
and commercial sexual exploitation; Sri Lankan men and women migrate
willingly to the Persian Gulf, Middle East, and East Asia to work as
construction workers, domestic servants, or garment factory workers,
where some find themselves in situations of involuntary servitude
when faced with restrictions on movement, withholding of passports,
threats, physical or sexual abuse, and debt bondage; children are
trafficked internally for commercial sexual exploitation and, less
frequently, for forced labor
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - for a second consecutive year, Sri
Lanka is on the Tier 2 Watch List for failing to provide evidence of
increasing efforts to combat severe forms of human trafficking,
particularly in the area of law enforcement; the government failed
to arrest, prosecute, or convict any person for trafficking offenses
and continued to punish some victims of trafficking for crimes
committed as a result of being trafficked; Sri Lanka has not
ratified the 2000 UN TIP Protocol (2008)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Sudan

Introduction
Sudan



Background:

Military regimes favoring Islamic-oriented governments have
dominated national politics since independence from the UK in 1956.
Sudan was embroiled in two prolonged civil wars during most of the
remainder of the 20th century. These conflicts were rooted in
northern economic, political, and social domination of largely
non-Muslim, non-Arab southern Sudanese. The first civil war ended in
1972 but broke out again in 1983. The second war and famine-related
effects resulted in more than four million people displaced and,
according to rebel estimates, more than two million deaths over a
period of two decades. Peace talks gained momentum in 2002-04 with
the signing of several accords. The final North/South Comprehensive
Peace Agreement (CPA), signed in January 2005, granted the southern
rebels autonomy for six years. After which, a referendum for
independence is scheduled to be held. A separate conflict, which
broke out in the western region of Darfur in 2003, has displaced
nearly two million people and caused an estimated 200,000 to 400,000
deaths. The UN took command of the Darfur peacekeeping operation
from the African Union on 31 December 2007. As of early 2008,
peacekeeping troops were struggling to stabilize the situation,
which has become increasingly regional in scope, and has brought
instability to eastern Chad, and Sudanese incursions into the
Central African Republic. Sudan also has faced large refugee
influxes from neighboring countries, primarily Ethiopia and Chad.
Armed conflict, poor transport infrastructure, and lack of
government support have chronically obstructed the provision of
humanitarian assistance to affected populations.


Geography
Sudan



Location:

Northern Africa, bordering the Red Sea, between Egypt and Eritrea


Geographic coordinates:

15 00 N, 30 00 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 2,505,810 sq km
land: 2.376 million sq km
water: 129,810 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly more than one-quarter the size of the US


Land boundaries:

total: 7,687 km
border countries: Central African Republic 1,165 km, Chad 1,360 km,
Democratic Republic of the Congo 628 km, Egypt 1,273 km, Eritrea 605
km, Ethiopia 1,606 km, Kenya 232 km, Libya 383 km, Uganda 435 km


Coastline:

853 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 18 nm
continental shelf: 200 m depth or to the depth of exploitation


Climate:

tropical in south; arid desert in north; rainy season varies by
region (April to November)


Terrain:

generally flat, featureless plain; mountains in far south, northeast
and west; desert dominates the north


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Red Sea 0 m
highest point: Kinyeti 3,187 m


Natural resources:

petroleum; small reserves of iron ore, copper, chromium ore, zinc,
tungsten, mica, silver, gold, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 6.78%
permanent crops: 0.17%
other: 93.05% (2005)


Irrigated land:

18,630 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

154 cu km (1997)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 37.32 cu km/yr (3%/1%/97%)
per capita: 1,030 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

dust storms and periodic persistent droughts


Environment - current issues:

inadequate supplies of potable water; wildlife populations
threatened by excessive hunting; soil erosion; desertification;
periodic drought


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

largest country in Africa; dominated by the Nile and its tributaries


People
Sudan



Population:

40,218,456 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 41.1% (male 8,451,576/female 8,093,609)
15-64 years: 56.4% (male 11,407,233/female 11,275,685)
65 years and over: 2.5% (male 518,822/female 471,530) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 18.9 years
male: 18.7 years
female: 19.1 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.134% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

34.31 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

13.64 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

0.67 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 1.1 male(s)/female
total population: 1.03 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 86.98 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 87.09 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 86.86 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 50.28 years
male: 49.38 years
female: 51.23 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

4.58 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

2.3% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

400,000 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

23,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: malaria, dengue fever, African trypanosomiasis
(sleeping sickness)
water contact disease: schistosomiasis
respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis
note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Sudanese (singular and plural)
adjective: Sudanese


Ethnic groups:

black 52%, Arab 39%, Beja 6%, foreigners 2%, other 1%


Religions:

Sunni Muslim 70% (in north), Christian 5% (mostly in south and
Khartoum), indigenous beliefs 25%


Languages:

Arabic (official), English (official), Nubian, Ta Bedawie, diverse
dialects of Nilotic, Nilo-Hamitic, Sudanic languages
note: program of "Arabization" in process


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 61.1%
male: 71.8%
female: 50.5% (2003 est.)


Education expenditures:

6% of GDP (1991)


Government
Sudan



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of the Sudan
conventional short form: Sudan
local long form: Jumhuriyat as-Sudan
local short form: As-Sudan
former: Anglo-Egyptian Sudan


Government type:

Government of National Unity (GNU) - the National Congress Party
(NCP) and Sudan People's Liberation Movement (SPLM) formed a
power-sharing government under the 2005 Comprehensive Peace
Agreement (CPA); the NCP, which came to power by military coup in
1989, is the majority partner; the agreement stipulates national
elections in 2009


Capital:

name: Khartoum
geographic coordinates: 15 36 N, 32 32 E
time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

25 states (wilayat, singular - wilayah); A'ali an Nil (Upper Nile),
Al Bahr al Ahmar (Red Sea), Al Buhayrat (Lakes), Al Jazirah (El
Gezira), Al Khartum (Khartoum), Al Qadarif (Gedaref), Al Wahdah
(Unity), An Nil al Abyad (White Nile), An Nil al Azraq (Blue Nile),
Ash Shamaliyah (Northern), Bahr al Jabal (Bahr al Jabal), Gharb al
Istiwa'iyah (Western Equatoria), Gharb Bahr al Ghazal (Western Bahr
al Ghazal), Gharb Darfur (Western Darfur), Janub Darfur (Southern
Darfur), Janub Kurdufan (Southern Kordofan), Junqali (Jonglei),
Kassala (Kassala), Nahr an Nil (Nile), Shamal Bahr al Ghazal
(Northern Bahr al Ghazal), Shamal Darfur (Northern Darfur), Shamal
Kurdufan (Northern Kordofan), Sharq al Istiwa'iyah (Eastern
Equatoria), Sinnar (Sinnar), Warab (Warab)


Independence:

1 January 1956 (from Egypt and UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 1 January (1956)


Constitution:

constitution implemented on 30 June 1998, partially suspended 12
December 1999 by President BASHIR; under the CPA, Interim National
Constitution ratified 5 July 2005; Constitution of Southern Sudan
signed December 2005


Legal system:

based on English common law and Islamic law; as of 20 January 1991,
the now defunct Revolutionary Command Council imposed Islamic law in
the northern states; Islamic law applies to all residents of the
northern states regardless of their religion; however, the CPA
establishes some protections for non-Muslims in Khartoum; some
separate religious courts; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with
reservations; the southern legal system is still developing under
the CPA following the civil war; Islamic law will not apply to the
southern states


Suffrage:

17 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Umar Hassan Ahmad al-BASHIR (since 16
October 1993); First Vice President Salva KIIR (since 4 August
2005), Vice President Ali Osman TAHA (since 20 September 2005); note
- the president is both the chief of state and head of government
head of government: President Umar Hassan Ahmad al-BASHIR (since 16
October 1993); First Vice President Salva KIIR (since 4 August
2005), Vice President Ali Osman TAHA (since 20 September 2005)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president; note - the
National Congress Party or NCP (formerly the National Islamic Front
or NIF) dominates al-BASHIR's cabinet
elections: election last held 13-23 December 2000; next to be held
no later than July 2009 under terms of the 2005 Comprehensive Peace
Agreement
election results: Umar Hassan Ahmad al-BASHIR reelected president;
percent of vote - Umar Hassan Ahmad al-BASHIR 86.5%, Ja'afar
Muhammed NUMAYRI 9.6%, three other candidates received a combined
vote of 3.9%; election widely viewed as rigged; all popular
opposition parties boycotted elections because of a lack of
guarantees for a free and fair election
note: al-BASHIR assumed power as chairman of Sudan's Revolutionary
Command Council for National Salvation (RCC) in June 1989 and served
concurrently as chief of state, chairman of the RCC, prime minister,
and minister of defense until mid-October 1993 when he was appointed
president by the RCC; he was elected president by popular vote for
the first time in March 1996


Legislative branch:

bicameral National Legislature consists of a Council of States (50
seats; members indirectly elected by state legislatures to serve
six-year terms) and a National Assembly (450 seats; members
presently appointed, but in the future 75% of members to be directly
elected and 25% elected in special or indirect elections; to serve
six-year terms)
elections: last held 13-22 December 2000 (next to be held 2009)
election results: NCP 355, others 5; note - replaced by appointments
under the 2005 Comprehensive Peace Agreement


Judicial branch:

Constitutional Court of nine justices; National Supreme Court;
National Courts of Appeal; other national courts; National Judicial
Service Commission will undertake overall management of the National
Judiciary


Political parties and leaders:

National Congress Party or NCP [Umar Hassan al-BASHIR]; Sudan
People's Liberation Movement or SPLM [Salva Mayardit KIIR]; and
elements of the National Democratic Alliance or NDA including
factions of the Democratic Union Party [Muhammad Uthman al-MIRGHANI]
and Umma Party [SADIQ Siddiq al-Mahdi]; note - all political parties
listed above in the Government of National Unity


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Umma Party [Sadiq al-MAHDI]; Popular Congress Party or PCP [Hassan
al-TURABI]


International organization participation:

ABEDA, ACP, AfDB, AFESD, AMF, AU, CAEU, COMESA, FAO, G-77, IAEA,
IBRD, ICAO, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
IGAD, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, LAS,
MIGA, NAM, OIC, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNWTO,
UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Akec KHOC
Aciew Khoc
chancery: 2210 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 338-8565
FAX: [1] (202) 667-2406


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Alberto M.
FERNANDEZ
embassy: Sharia Ali Abdul Latif Street, Khartoum
mailing address: P. O. Box 699, Khartoum; APO AE 09829
telephone: [249] (183) 774701/2/3
FAX: [249] (183) 774137


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and black with a
green isosceles triangle based on the hoist side


Economy
Sudan



Economy - overview:

Sudan's economy is booming on the back of increases in oil
production, high oil prices, and large inflows of foreign direct
investment. GDP growth registered more than 10% per year in 2006 and
2007. From 1997 to date, Sudan has been working with the IMF to
implement macroeconomic reforms, including a managed float of the
exchange rate. Sudan began exporting crude oil in the last quarter
of 1999. Agricultural production remains important, because it
employs 80% of the work force and contributes a third of GDP. The
Darfur conflict, the aftermath of two decades of civil war in the
south, the lack of basic infrastructure in large areas, and a
reliance by much of the population on subsistence agriculture ensure
much of the population will remain at or below the poverty line for
years despite rapid rises in average per capita income. In January
2007, the government introduced a new currency, the Sudanese Pound,
at an initial exchange rate of $1.00 equals 2 Sudanese Pounds.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$80.98 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$46.16 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

10.2% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$1,900 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 32%
industry: 32.8%
services: 35.2% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

7.415 million (1996 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 80%
industry: 7%
services: 13% (1998 est.)


Unemployment rate:

18.7% (2002 est.)


Population below poverty line:

40% (2004 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Investment (gross fixed):

19% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $9.201 billion
expenditures: $10.62 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

105.9% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

8% (2007 est.)


Stock of money:

$5.549 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$4.068 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$8.659 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

cotton, groundnuts (peanuts), sorghum, millet, wheat, gum arabic,
sugarcane, cassava (tapioca), mangos, papaya, bananas, sweet
potatoes, sesame; sheep, livestock


Industries:

oil, cotton ginning, textiles, cement, edible oils, sugar, soap
distilling, shoes, petroleum refining, pharmaceuticals, armaments,
automobile/light truck assembly


Industrial production growth rate:

22% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

4.037 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

3.398 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 52.1%
hydro: 47.9%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

466,100 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

79,760 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

282,100 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

7,558 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

5 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

84.95 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$3.447 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$8.879 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

oil and petroleum products; cotton, sesame, livestock, groundnuts,
gum arabic, sugar


Exports - partners:

China 82.1%, Japan 8.4%, UAE 2.5% (2007)


Imports:

$7.722 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

foodstuffs, manufactured goods, refinery and transport equipment,
medicines and chemicals, textiles, wheat


Imports - partners:

China 27.9%, Saudi Arabia 7.5%, India 6.3%, Egypt 5.6%, UAE 5.5%,
Japan 4.2% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$1.829 billion (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$1.378 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$29.42 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Sudanese pounds (SDG)


Currency code:

SDD


Exchange rates:

Sudanese pounds (SDG) per US dollar - 2.06 (2007), 2.172 (2006),
2.4361 (2005), 2.5791 (2004), 2.6098 (2003)
note: in October 2007 Sudan redenominated its currency by
transforming 100 units of Sudanese dinar into one unit of Sudanese
pound


Communications
Sudan



Telephones - main lines in use:

345,200 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

7.464 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: well-equipped system by regional standards and
being upgraded; cellular communications started in 1996 and have
expanded substantially
domestic: consists of microwave radio relay, cable, radiotelephone
communications, tropospheric scatter, and a domestic satellite
system with 14 earth stations
international: country code - 249; linked to international submarine
cable Fiber-Optic Link Around the Globe (FLAG); satellite earth
stations - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean), 1 Arabsat (2000)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 12, FM 1, shortwave 1 (1998)


Radios:

7.55 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

3 (1997)


Televisions:

2.38 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.sd


Internet hosts:

33 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

2 (2002)


Internet users:

1.5 million (2007)


Transportation
Sudan



Airports:

101 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 16
over 3,047 m: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 9
1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 85
over 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 20
914 to 1,523 m: 37
under 914 m: 27 (2007)


Heliports:

4 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 156 km; oil 4,070 km; refined products 1,613 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 5,978 km
narrow gauge: 4,578 km 1.067-m gauge; 1,400 km 0.600-m gauge for
cotton plantations (2006)


Roadways:

total: 11,900 km
paved: 4,320 km
unpaved: 7,580 km (2000)


Waterways:

4,068 km (1,723 km open year round on White and Blue Nile rivers)
(2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 3
by type: cargo 2, carrier 1 (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Port Sudan


Military
Sudan



Military branches:

Sudanese Armed Forces (SAF): Land Forces, Navy, Air Force, Popular
Defense Forces; Sudan People's Liberation Army (SPLA): Land Forces
(2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18-30 years of age for compulsory military service; 2-year service
obligation (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 9,639,923
females age 16-49: 9,321,106 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 5,586,468
females age 16-49: 5,678,427 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 488,679
female: 469,547 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

3% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Sudan



Disputes - international:

the effects of Sudan's almost constant ethnic and rebel militia
fighting since the mid-20th century have penetrated all of the
neighboring states; as of 2006, Chad, Ethiopia, Kenya, Central
African Republic, Democratic Republic of the Congo, and Uganda
provided shelter for over half a million Sudanese refugees, which
includes 240,000 Darfur residents driven from their homes by
Janjawid armed militia and the Sudanese military forces; Sudan, in
turn, hosted about 116,000 Eritreans, 20,000 Chadians, and smaller
numbers of Ethiopians, Ugandans, Central Africans, and Congolese as
refugees; in February 2006, Sudan and DROC signed an agreement to
repatriate 13,300 Sudanese and 6,800 Congolese; Sudan accuses
Eritrea of supporting Sudanese rebel groups; efforts to demarcate
the porous boundary with Ethiopia proceed slowly due to civil and
ethnic fighting in eastern Sudan; the boundary that separates Kenya
and Sudan's sovereignty is unclear in the "Ilemi Triangle," which
Kenya has administered since colonial times; while Sudan claims to
administer the Hala'ib Triangle north of the 1899 Treaty boundary
along the 22nd Parallel; both states withdrew their military
presence in the 1990s, and Egypt has invested in and effectively
administers the area; periodic violent skirmishes with Sudanese
residents over water and grazing rights persist among related
pastoral populations along the border with the Central African
Republic


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 157,220 (Eritrea); 25,023 (Chad);
11,009 (Ethiopia); 7,895 (Uganda); 5,023 (Central African Republic)
IDPs: 5.3 - 6.2 million (civil war 1983-2005; ongoing conflict in
Darfur region) (2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Sudan is a source country for men, women, and
children trafficked internally for the purposes of forced labor and
sexual exploitation; Sudan is also a transit and destination country
for Ethiopian women trafficked abroad for domestic servitude;
Sudanese women and girls are trafficked within the country, as well
as possibly to Middle Eastern countries for domestic servitude; the
terrorist rebel organization, Lord's Resistance Army, continues to
harbor small numbers of Sudanese and Ugandan children in the
southern part of the country for use as cooks, porters, and
combatants; some of these children are also trafficked across
borders into Uganda or the Democratic Republic of the Congo; militia
groups in Darfur, some of which are linked to the government, abduct
women for short periods of forced labor and to perpetrate sexual
violence; during the two decades-long north-south civil war,
thousands of Dinka women and children were abducted and subsequently
enslaved by members of the Missiriya and Rezeigat tribes; while
there have been no known new abductions of Dinka by members of
Baggara tribes in the last few years, inter-tribal abductions
continue in southern Sudan
tier rating: Tier 3 - Sudan does not fully comply with the minimum
standards for the elimination of trafficking and is not making
significant efforts to do so; combating human trafficking through
law enforcement or prevention measures was not a priority for the
government in 2007 (2008)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Suriname

Introduction
Suriname



Background:

First explored by the Spaniards in the 16th century and then settled
by the English in the mid-17th century, Suriname became a Dutch
colony in 1667. With the abolition of slavery in 1863, workers were
brought in from India and Java. Independence from the Netherlands
was granted in 1975. Five years later the civilian government was
replaced by a military regime that soon declared a socialist
republic. It continued to exert control through a succession of
nominally civilian administrations until 1987, when international
pressure finally forced a democratic election. In 1990, the military
overthrew the civilian leadership, but a democratically elected
government - a four-party New Front coalition - returned to power in
1991 and has ruled since; the coalition expanded to eight parties in
2005.


Geography
Suriname



Location:

Northern South America, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean, between
French Guiana and Guyana


Geographic coordinates:

4 00 N, 56 00 W


Map references:

South America


Area:

total: 163,270 sq km
land: 161,470 sq km
water: 1,800 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than Georgia


Land boundaries:

total: 1,703 km
border countries: Brazil 593 km, French Guiana 510 km, Guyana 600 km


Coastline:

386 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; moderated by trade winds


Terrain:

mostly rolling hills; narrow coastal plain with swamps


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: unnamed location in the coastal plain -2 m
highest point: Juliana Top 1,230 m


Natural resources:

timber, hydropower, fish, kaolin, shrimp, bauxite, gold, and small
amounts of nickel, copper, platinum, iron ore


Land use:

arable land: 0.36%
permanent crops: 0.06%
other: 99.58% (2005)


Irrigated land:

510 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

122 cu km (2003)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.67 cu km/yr (4%/3%/93%)
per capita: 1,489 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

NA


Environment - current issues:

deforestation as timber is cut for export; pollution of inland
waterways by small-scale mining activities


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea,
Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical
Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

smallest independent country on South American continent; mostly
tropical rain forest; great diversity of flora and fauna that, for
the most part, is increasingly threatened by new development;
relatively small population, mostly along the coast


People
Suriname



Population:

475,996 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 27.5% (male 66,695/female 64,356)
15-64 years: 66.2% (male 156,961/female 158,234)
65 years and over: 6.3% (male 12,868/female 16,882) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 27.5 years
male: 27.1 years
female: 27.9 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.099% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

17.02 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

5.51 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-0.52 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.07 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.76 male(s)/female
total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 19.45 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 22.96 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 15.71 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 73.48 years
male: 70.76 years
female: 76.39 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.01 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

1.7% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

5,200 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 500 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne disease: dengue fever, Mayaro virus, and malaria
water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Surinamer(s)
adjective: Surinamese


Ethnic groups:

Hindustani (also known locally as "East Indians"; their ancestors
emigrated from northern India in the latter part of the 19th
century) 37%, Creole (mixed white and black) 31%, Javanese 15%,
"Maroons" (their African ancestors were brought to the country in
the 17th and 18th centuries as slaves and escaped to the interior)
10%, Amerindian 2%, Chinese 2%, white 1%, other 2%


Religions:

Hindu 27.4%, Protestant 25.2% (predominantly Moravian), Roman
Catholic 22.8%, Muslim 19.6%, indigenous beliefs 5%


Languages:

Dutch (official), English (widely spoken), Sranang Tongo
(Surinamese, sometimes called Taki-Taki, is native language of
Creoles and much of the younger population and is lingua franca
among others), Caribbean Hindustani (a dialect of Hindi), Javanese


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 89.6%
male: 92%
female: 87.2% (2004 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 12 years
male: 11 years
female: 13 years (2002)


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Suriname



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Suriname
conventional short form: Suriname
local long form: Republiek Suriname
local short form: Suriname
former: Netherlands Guiana, Dutch Guiana


Government type:

constitutional democracy


Capital:

name: Paramaribo
geographic coordinates: 5 50 N, 55 10 W
time difference: UTC-3 (2 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

10 districts (distrikten, singular - distrikt); Brokopondo,
Commewijne, Coronie, Marowijne, Nickerie, Para, Paramaribo,
Saramacca, Sipaliwini, Wanica


Independence:

25 November 1975 (from the Netherlands)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 25 November (1975)


Constitution:

ratified 30 September 1987; effective 30 October 1987


Legal system:

based on Dutch legal system incorporating French penal theory;
accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Runaldo Ronald VENETIAAN (since 12 August
2000); Vice President Ramdien SARDJOE (since 3 August 2005); note -
the president is both the chief of state and head of government
head of government: President Runaldo Ronald VENETIAAN (since 12
August 2000); Vice President Ram SARDJOE (since 3 August 2005)
cabinet: Cabinet of Ministers appointed by the president
elections: president and vice president elected by the National
Assembly or, if no presidential or vice presidential candidate
receives a two-thirds constitutional majority in the National
Assembly after two votes, by a simple majority in the larger United
People's Assembly (893 representatives from the national, local, and
regional councils), for five-year terms (no term limits); election
last held on 25 May 2005 (next to be held in 2010)
election results: Runaldo Ronald VENETIAAN reelected president;
percent of vote - Runaldo Ronald VENETIAAN 62.9%, Rabin PARMESSAR
35.4%, other 1.7%; note - after two votes in the parliament failed
to secure a two-thirds majority for a candidate, the vote then went
to a special session of the United People's Assembly on 3 August 2005


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly or Nationale Assemblee (51 seats;
members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held on 25 May 2005 (next to be held in 2010)
election results: percent of vote by party - NF 39.7%, NDP 22.2%,
VVV 13.8%, A-Com 7.2%, A-1 5.9%, other 11.2%; seats by party - NF
23, NDP 15, VVV 5, A-Com 5, A-1 3


Judicial branch:

Cantonal Courts and a Court of Justice as an appellate court
(justices are nominated for life)


Political parties and leaders:

Alternative-1 or A-1 (a coalition of Amazone Party of Suriname or
APS [Kenneth VAN GENDEREN], Democrats of the 21st Century or D-21
[Soewarto MOESTADJA], Nieuw Suriname or NS [Radjen Nanan PANDAY],
Political Wing of the FAL or PVF [Jiwan SITAL], Trefpunt 2000 or
T-2000 [Arti JESSURUN]); General Interior Development Party or ABOP
[Ronnie BRUNSWIJK]; National Democratic Party or NDP [Desire
BOUTERSE]; New Front for Democracy and Development or NF (a
coalition that includes A-Combination or A-Com, Democratic
Alternative 1991 or DA-91, an independent, business-oriented party
[Winston JESSURUN], National Party Suriname or NPS [Ronald
VENETIAAN], United Reform Party or VHP [Ramdien SARDJOE], Pertjaja
Luhur or PL [Salam Paul SOMOHARDJO], Surinamese Labor Party or SPA
[Siegfried GILDS]); Party for Democracy and Development in Unity or
DOE [Marten SCHALKWIJK]; People's Alliance for Progress or VVV (a
coalition of Democratic National Platform 2000 or DNP-2000 [Jules
WIJDENBOSCH], Grassroots Party for Renewal and Democracy or BVD
[Tjan GOBARDHAN], Party for National Unity and Solidarity of the
Highest Order or KTPI [Willy SOEMITA], Party for Progression,
Justice, and Perseverance or PPRS [Renee KAIMAN], Pendawalima or PL
[Raymond SAPOEN]); Progressive Laborers and Farmers Union or PALU
[Jim HOK]; Progressive Political Party or PPP [Surinder MUNGRA];
Seeka [Paul ABENA]; Union of Progressive Surinamers or UPS [Sheoradj
PANDAY]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Association of Indigenous Village Chiefs [Ricardo PANE]; Association
of Saramaccan Authorities or Maroon [Head Captain WASE]; Women's
Parliament Forum or PVF [Iris GILLIAD]


International organization participation:

ACP, Caricom, FAO, G-77, IADB, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDB, IFAD,
IFRCS, IHO (suspended), ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IPU, ISO
(subscriber), ITU, ITUC, LAES, MIGA, NAM, OAS, OIC, OPANAL, OPCW,
PCA, UN, UNASUR, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Jacques Ruben Constantijn KROSS
chancery: Suite 460, 4301 Connecticut Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 244-7488
FAX: [1] (202) 244-5878
consulate(s) general: Miami


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Lisa Bobbie SCHREIBER HUGHES
embassy: Dr. Sophie Redmondstraat 129, Paramaribo
mailing address: US Department of State, PO Box 1821, Paramaribo
telephone: [597] 472-900
FAX: [597] 410-025


Flag description:

five horizontal bands of green (top, double width), white, red
(quadruple width), white, and green (double width); there is a
large, yellow, five-pointed star centered in the red band


Economy
Suriname



Economy - overview:

The economy is dominated by the mining industry, with exports of
alumina, gold, and oil accounting for about 85% of exports and 25%
of government revenues, making the economy highly vulnerable to
mineral price volatility. The short-term economic outlook depends on
the government's ability to control inflation and on the development
of projects in the bauxite and gold mining sectors. Suriname has
received aid for these projects from Netherlands, Belgium, and the
European Development Fund. Suriname's economic prospects for the
medium term will depend on continued commitment to responsible
monetary and fiscal policies and to the introduction of structural
reforms to liberalize markets and promote competition. In 2000, the
government of Ronald VENETIAAN, returned to office and inherited an
economy with inflation of over 100% and a growing fiscal deficit. He
quickly implemented an austerity program, raised taxes, attempted to
control spending, and tamed inflation. These economic policies are
likely to remain in effect during VENETIAAN's third term. Prospects
for local onshore oil production are good as a drilling program is
underway. Offshore oil drilling was given a boost in 2004 when the
State Oil Company (Staatsolie) signed exploration agreements with
Repsol, Maersk, and Occidental. Bidding on these new offshore blocks
was completed in July 2006.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$3.846 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$2.404 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

5.1% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$8,700 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 10.8%
industry: 24.4%
services: 64.8% (2005 est.)


Labor force:

156,700 (2004)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 8%
industry: 14%
services: 78% (2004)


Unemployment rate:

9.5% (2004)


Population below poverty line:

70% (2002 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $392.6 million
expenditures: $425.9 million (2004)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

6.4% (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

13.77% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$416.6 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$824.4 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$651 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

paddy rice, bananas, palm kernels, coconuts, plantains, peanuts;
beef, chickens; shrimp; forest products


Industries:

bauxite and gold mining, alumina production; oil, lumbering, food
processing, fishing


Industrial production growth rate:

6.5% (1994 est.)


Electricity - production:

1.595 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

1.457 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 25.2%
hydro: 74.8%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

13,000 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

12,370 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

2,899 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

6,369 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

88 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

$24 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$1.391 billion f.o.b. (2006 est.)


Exports - commodities:

alumina, gold, crude oil, lumber, shrimp and fish, rice, bananas


Exports - partners:

Canada 26.8%, Norway 20.2%, Belgium 9.2%, US 8.9%, UAE 7.9%, France
7.2% (2007)


Imports:

$1.297 billion f.o.b. (2006 est.)


Imports - commodities:

capital equipment, petroleum, foodstuffs, cotton, consumer goods


Imports - partners:

US 27%, Netherlands 17.3%, Trinidad and Tobago 14.3%, China 5.9%,
Japan 5.1% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$43.97 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$263.3 million (2006)


Debt - external:

$504.3 million (2005 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Surinam dollar (SRD)


Currency code:

SRG


Exchange rates:

Surinamese dollars (SRD) per US dollar - 2.745 (2007), 2.745 (2006),
2.7317 (2005), 2.7336 (2004), 2.6013 (2003)
note: in January 2004, the government replaced the guilder with the
Surinamese dollar, tied to a US dollar-dominated currency basket


Communications
Suriname



Telephones - main lines in use:

81,500 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

320,000 (2006)


Telephone system:

general assessment: international facilities are good
domestic: combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity about
90 telephones per 100 persons; microwave radio relay network
international: country code - 597; satellite earth stations - 2
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 4, FM 13, shortwave 1 (1998)


Radios:

300,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

3 (plus 7 repeaters) (2000)


Televisions:

63,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.sr


Internet hosts:

33 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

2 (2000)


Internet users:

44,000 (2007)


Transportation
Suriname



Airports:

50 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 5
over 3,047 m: 1
under 914 m: 4 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 45
914 to 1,523 m: 5
under 914 m: 40 (2007)


Pipelines:

oil 50 km (2007)


Roadways:

total: 4,304 km
paved: 1,130 km
unpaved: 3,174 km (2003)


Waterways:

1,200 km (most navigable by ships with drafts up to 7 m) (2005)


Merchant marine:

total: 1
by type: cargo 1 (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Paramaribo, Wageningen


Military
Suriname



Military branches:

National Army (Nationaal Leger, NL; includes Naval Wing, Air Wing)
(2007)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age (est.); recruitment is voluntary, with personnel
drawn almost exclusively from the Creole community (2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 130,534
females age 16-49: 130,243 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 105,770
females age 16-49: 109,666 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 4,329
female: 4,350 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0.6% of GDP (2006 est.)


Transnational Issues
Suriname



Disputes - international:

area claimed by French Guiana between Riviere Litani and Riviere
Marouini (both headwaters of the Lawa); Suriname claims a triangle
of land between the New and Kutari/Koetari rivers in a historic
dispute over the headwaters of the Courantyne; Guyana seeks United
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) arbitration to
resolve the long-standing dispute with Suriname over the axis of the
territorial sea boundary in potentially oil-rich waters


Illicit drugs:

growing transshipment point for South American drugs destined for
Europe via the Netherlands and Brazil; transshipment point for
arms-for-drugs dealing



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Svalbard

Introduction
Svalbard



Background:

First discovered by the Norwegians in the 12th century, the islands
served as an international whaling base during the 17th and 18th
centuries. Norway's sovereignty was recognized in 1920; five years
later it officially took over the territory.


Geography
Svalbard



Location:

Northern Europe, islands between the Arctic Ocean, Barents Sea,
Greenland Sea, and Norwegian Sea, north of Norway


Geographic coordinates:

78 00 N, 20 00 E


Map references:

Arctic Region


Area:

total: 61,020 sq km
land: 61,020 sq km
water: 0 sq km
note: includes Spitsbergen and Bjornoya (Bear Island)


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than West Virginia


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

3,587 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 4 nm
exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm unilaterally claimed by Norway but
not recognized by Russia


Climate:

arctic, tempered by warm North Atlantic Current; cool summers, cold
winters; North Atlantic Current flows along west and north coasts of
Spitsbergen, keeping water open and navigable most of the year


Terrain:

wild, rugged mountains; much of high land ice covered; west coast
clear of ice about one-half of the year; fjords along west and north
coasts


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Arctic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Newtontoppen 1,717 m


Natural resources:

coal, iron ore, copper, zinc, phosphate, wildlife, fish


Land use:

arable land: 0%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 100% (no trees; the only bushes are crowberry and cloudberry)
(2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

ice floes often block the entrance to Bellsund (a transit point for
coal export) on the west coast and occasionally make parts of the
northeastern coast inaccessible to maritime traffic


Environment - current issues:

NA


Geography - note:

northernmost part of the Kingdom of Norway; consists of nine main
islands; glaciers and snowfields cover 60% of the total area;
Spitsbergen Island is the site of the Svalbard Global Seed Vault, a
seed repository established by the Global Crop Diversity Trust and
the Norwegian Government


People
Svalbard



Population:

2,165 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: NA
15-64 years: NA
65 years and over: NA


Population growth rate:

-0.023% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Death rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

NA


Infant mortality rate:

total: NA
male: NA
female: NA (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: NA
male: NA
female: NA (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

NA (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0% (2001)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

0 (2001)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

0 (2001)


Ethnic groups:

Norwegian 55.4%, Russian and Ukrainian 44.3%, other 0.3% (1998)


Languages:

Norwegian, Russian


Literacy:

NA


Government
Svalbard



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Svalbard (sometimes referred to as
Spitzbergen)


Dependency status:

territory of Norway; administered by the Polar Department of the
Ministry of Justice, through a governor (sysselmann) residing in
Longyearbyen, Spitsbergen; by treaty (9 February 1920) sovereignty
was awarded to Norway


Government type:

NA


Capital:

name: Longyearbyen
geographic coordinates: 78 13 N, 15 33 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Independence:

none (territory of Norway)


Legal system:

the laws of Norway, where applicable, apply


Executive branch:

chief of state: King HARALD V of Norway (since 17 January 1991)
head of government: Governor Per SEFLAND (since 1 October 2005);
Assistant Governor Rune Baard HANSEN (since 2003)
elections: none; the monarch is hereditary; governor and assistant
governor responsible to the Polar Department of the Ministry of
Justice


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

none


Flag description:

the flag of Norway is used


Economy
Svalbard



Economy - overview:

Coal mining is the major economic activity on Svalbard. The treaty
of 9 February 1920 gave the 41 signatories equal rights to exploit
mineral deposits, subject to Norwegian regulation. Although US, UK,
Dutch, and Swedish coal companies have mined in the past, the only
companies still mining are Norwegian and Russian. The settlements on
Svalbard are essentially company towns. The Norwegian state-owned
coal company employs nearly 60% of the Norwegian population on the
island, runs many of the local services, and provides most of the
local infrastructure. There is also some hunting of seal, reindeer,
and fox.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$NA


GDP - real growth rate:

NA%


Labor force:

NA


Budget:

revenues: $25.07 million
expenditures: $NA (2004 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 57.9984%
hydro: 42.0016%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0%


Exports:

$197.6 million (2004)


Imports:

$NA


Economic aid - recipient:

$8.2 million from Norway (1998)


Currency (code):

Norwegian krone (NOK)


Currency code:

NOK


Exchange rates:

Norwegian kroner (NOK) per US dollar - 5.8396 (2007), 6.4117 (2006),
6.4425 (2005), 6.7408 (2004), 7.0802 (2003)


Communications
Svalbard



Telephones - main lines in use:

NA


Telephone system:

general assessment: probably adequate
domestic: local telephone service
international: country code - 47-790; satellite earth station - 1 of
unknown type (for communication with Norwegian mainland only)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 1 (plus 2 repeaters), shortwave 0 (1998)


Radios:

NA


Television broadcast stations:

NA


Televisions:

NA


Internet country code:

.sj


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

13 (Svalbard and Jan Mayen) (2000)


Internet users:

NA


Transportation
Svalbard



Airports:

4 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 3
under 914 m: 3 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Ports and terminals:

Barentsburg, Longyearbyen, Ny-Alesund, Pyramiden


Military
Svalbard



Military branches:

no regular military forces


Military - note:

Svalbard is a territory of Norway, demilitarized by treaty on 9
February 1920


Transnational Issues
Svalbard



Disputes - international:

despite recent discussions, Russia and Norway dispute their maritime
limits in the Barents Sea and Russia's fishing rights beyond
Svalbard's territorial limits within the Svalbard Treaty zone



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Swaziland

Introduction
Swaziland



Background:

Autonomy for the Swazis of southern Africa was guaranteed by the
British in the late 19th century; independence was granted in 1968.
Student and labor unrest during the 1990s pressured King MSWATI III,
the world's last absolute monarch, to grudgingly allow political
reform and greater democracy, although he has backslid on these
promises in recent years. A constitution came into effect in 2006,
but political parties remain banned. The African United Democratic
Party tried unsuccessfully to register as an official political
party in mid 2006. Talks over the constitution broke down between
the government and progressive groups in 2007. Swaziland recently
surpassed Botswana as the country with the world's highest known
HIV/AIDS prevalence rate.


Geography
Swaziland



Location:

Southern Africa, between Mozambique and South Africa


Geographic coordinates:

26 30 S, 31 30 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 17,363 sq km
land: 17,203 sq km
water: 160 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than New Jersey


Land boundaries:

total: 535 km
border countries: Mozambique 105 km, South Africa 430 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

varies from tropical to near temperate


Terrain:

mostly mountains and hills; some moderately sloping plains


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Great Usutu River 21 m
highest point: Emlembe 1,862 m


Natural resources:

asbestos, coal, clay, cassiterite, hydropower, forests, small gold
and diamond deposits, quarry stone, and talc


Land use:

arable land: 10.25%
permanent crops: 0.81%
other: 88.94% (2005)


Irrigated land:

500 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

4.5 cu km (1987)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 1.04 cu km/yr (2%/1%/97%)
per capita: 1,010 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

drought


Environment - current issues:

limited supplies of potable water; wildlife populations being
depleted because of excessive hunting; overgrazing; soil
degradation; soil erosion


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
Ozone Layer Protection
signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea


Geography - note:

landlocked; almost completely surrounded by South Africa


People
Swaziland



Population:

1,128,814
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 39.9% (male 226,947/female 222,922)
15-64 years: 56.5% (male 306,560/female 331,406)
65 years and over: 3.6% (male 15,594/female 25,385) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 18.7 years
male: 18 years
female: 19.4 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

-0.41% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

26.6 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

30.7 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.92 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.61 male(s)/female
total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 69.59 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 72.87 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 66.2 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 31.99 years
male: 31.69 years
female: 32.3 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

3.34 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

38.8% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

220,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

17,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: intermediate
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever
vectorborne disease: malaria
water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Swazi(s)
adjective: Swazi


Ethnic groups:

African 97%, European 3%


Religions:

Zionist 40% (a blend of Christianity and indigenous ancestral
worship), Roman Catholic 20%, Muslim 10%, other (includes Anglican,
Bahai, Methodist, Mormon, Jewish) 30%


Languages:

English (official, government business conducted in English),
siSwati (official)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 81.6%
male: 82.6%
female: 80.8% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 10 years
male: 10 years
female: 10 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

7% of GDP (2005)


Government
Swaziland



Country name:

conventional long form: Kingdom of Swaziland
conventional short form: Swaziland
local long form: Umbuso weSwatini
local short form: eSwatini


Government type:

monarchy


Capital:

name: Mbabane
geographic coordinates: 26 18 S, 31 06 E
time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
note: Lobamba (royal and legislative capital)


Administrative divisions:

4 districts; Hhohho, Lubombo, Manzini, Shiselweni


Independence:

6 September 1968 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 6 September (1968)


Constitution:

signed by the King in July 2005 went into effect on 8 February 2006


Legal system:

based on South African Roman-Dutch law in statutory courts and Swazi
traditional law and custom in traditional courts; accepts compulsory
ICJ jurisdiction with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age


Executive branch:

chief of state: King MSWATI III (since 25 April 1986)
head of government: Prime Minister Barnabas Sibusiso DLAMINI (since
16 October 2008)
cabinet: Cabinet recommended by the prime minister and confirmed by
the monarch
elections: the monarch is hereditary; prime minister appointed by
the monarch from among the elected members of the House of Assembly


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament or Libandla consists of the Senate (30 seats;
10 members appointed by the House of Assembly and 20 appointed by
the monarch; to serve five-year terms) and the House of Assembly (65
seats; 10 members appointed by the monarch and 55 elected by popular
vote; to serve five-year terms)
elections: House of Assembly - last held 19 September 2008 (next to
be held in 2013)
election results: House of Assembly - balloting is done on a
nonparty basis; candidates for election are nominated by the local
council of each constituency and for each constituency the three
candidates with the most votes in the first round of voting are
narrowed to a single winner by a second round


Judicial branch:

High Court; Supreme Court; judges for both courts are appointed by
the monarch


Political parties and leaders:

the status of political parties, previously banned, is unclear under
the new (2006) Constitution and currently being debated - the
following are considered political associations; African United
Democratic Party or AUDP [Stanley MAUNDZISA, president]; Imbokodvo
National Movement or INM; Ngwane National Liberatory Congress or
NNLC [Obed DLAMINI, president]; People's United Democratic Movement
or PUDEMO [Mario MASUKU, president]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Swaziland Federation of Trade Unions; Swaziland and Solidarity
Network or SSN


International organization participation:

ACP, AfDB, AU, C, COMESA, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD,
IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC, ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU,
ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OPCW, PCA, SACU, SADC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Ephraim Mandla HLOPHE
chancery: 1712 New Hampshire Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20009
telephone: [1] (202) 234-5002
FAX: [1] (202) 234-8254


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Maurice S. PARKER
embassy: 2350 Mbabane Place, Mbabane
mailing address: P. O. Box 199, Mbabane
telephone: [268] 404-2445
FAX: [268] 404-2059


Flag description:

three horizontal bands of blue (top), red (triple width), and blue;
the red band is edged in yellow; centered in the red band is a large
black and white shield covering two spears and a staff decorated
with feather tassels, all placed horizontally


Economy
Swaziland



Economy - overview:

In this small, landlocked economy, subsistence agriculture occupies
approximately 70% of the population. The manufacturing sector has
diversified since the mid-1980s. Sugar and wood pulp remain
important foreign exchange earners. In 2007, the sugar industry
increased efficiency and diversification efforts, in response to a
17% decline in EU sugar prices. Mining has declined in importance in
recent years with only coal and quarry stone mines remaining active.
Surrounded by South Africa, except for a short border with
Mozambique, Swaziland is heavily dependent on South Africa from
which it receives more than nine-tenths of its imports and to which
it sends 60% of its exports. Swaziland's currency is pegged to the
South African rand, subsuming Swaziland's monetary policy to South
Africa. Customs duties from the Southern African Customs Union,
which may equal as much as 70% of government revenue this year, and
worker remittances from South Africa substantially supplement
domestically earned income. Swaziland is not poor enough to merit an
IMF program; however, the country is struggling to reduce the size
of the civil service and control costs at public enterprises. The
government is trying to improve the atmosphere for foreign
investment. With an estimated 40% unemployment rate, Swaziland's
need to increase the number and size of small and medium enterprises
and attract foreign direct investment is acute. Overgrazing, soil
depletion, drought, and sometimes floods persist as problems for the
future. More than one-fourth of the population needed emergency food
aid in 2006-07 because of drought, and nearly two-fifths of the
adult population has been infected by HIV/AIDS.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$5.364 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$2.936 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

2.3% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$4,700 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 11.8%
industry: 45.7%
services: 42.5% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

300,000 (2006)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: NA%
industry: NA%
services: NA%


Unemployment rate:

40% (2006 est.)


Population below poverty line:

69% (2006)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 1.6%
highest 10%: 40.7% (2001)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

50.4 (2001)


Investment (gross fixed):

18.6% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $1.13 billion
expenditures: $1.143 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 April - 31 March


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

8.1% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

11% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

13.17% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$244.8 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$529.4 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$204.1 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

sugarcane, cotton, corn, tobacco, rice, citrus, pineapples, sorghum,
peanuts; cattle, goats, sheep


Industries:

coal, wood pulp, sugar, soft drink concentrates, textiles and apparel


Industrial production growth rate:

1.1% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

460 million kWh (2007)


Electricity - consumption:

1.2 billion kWh (2007)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007)


Electricity - imports:

872 million kWh; note - electricity supplied by South Africa (2007)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 58%
hydro: 42%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

3,490 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

3,530 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$24 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$1.926 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

soft drink concentrates, sugar, wood pulp, cotton yarn,
refrigerators, citrus and canned fruit


Exports - partners:

South Africa 59.7%, EU 8.8%, US 8.8%, Mozambique 6.2% (2006)


Imports:

$1.914 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

motor vehicles, machinery, transport equipment, foodstuffs,
petroleum products, chemicals


Imports - partners:

South Africa 95.6%, EU 0.9%, Japan 0.9% (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$46.03 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$762.7 million (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$524 million (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$NA


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$196.8 million (2005)


Currency (code):

lilangeni (SZL)


Currency code:

SZL


Exchange rates:

emalangeni per US dollar - 7.4 (2007), 6.85 (2006), 6.3593 (2005),
6.4597 (2004), 7.5648 (2003)


Communications
Swaziland



Telephones - main lines in use:

44,000 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

380,000 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: a somewhat modern but not an advanced system
domestic: mobile-cellular subscribership is increasing; combined
fixed-line and mobile cellular teledensity approaching 40 telephones
per 100 persons; telephone system consists of carrier-equipped,
open-wire lines and low-capacity, microwave radio relay
international: country code - 268; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 3, FM 2 (plus 4 repeaters), shortwave 3 (2004)


Radios:

170,000 (1999)


Television broadcast stations:

12 (includes 7 relay stations) (2004)


Televisions:

23,000 (2000)


Internet country code:

.sz


Internet hosts:

2,582 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

5 (2002)


Internet users:

42,000 (2006)


Transportation
Swaziland



Airports:

18 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 17
914 to 1,523 m: 7
under 914 m: 10 (2007)


Railways:

total: 301 km
narrow gauge: 301 km 1.067-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 3,594 km
paved: 1,078 km
unpaved: 2,516 km (2002)


Military
Swaziland



Military branches:

Umbutfo Swaziland Defense Force (USDF): Ground Force (includes air
wing) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18-30 years of age for male and female voluntary military service;
no conscription (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 266,311 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 122,260 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 15,951
female: 15,728 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

4.7% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Swaziland



Disputes - international:

in 2006, Swazi king advocates resort to ICJ to claim parts of
Mpumalanga and KwaZulu-Natal from South Africa



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Sweden

Introduction
Sweden



Background:

A military power during the 17th century, Sweden has not
participated in any war in almost two centuries. An armed neutrality
was preserved in both World Wars. Sweden's long-successful economic
formula of a capitalist system interlarded with substantial welfare
elements was challenged in the 1990s by high unemployment and in
2000-02 by the global economic downturn, but fiscal discipline over
the past several years has allowed the country to weather economic
vagaries. Sweden joined the EU in 1995, but the public rejected the
introduction of the euro in a 2003 referendum.


Geography
Sweden



Location:

Northern Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea, Gulf of Bothnia,
Kattegat, and Skagerrak, between Finland and Norway


Geographic coordinates:

62 00 N, 15 00 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 449,964 sq km
land: 410,934 sq km
water: 39,030 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than California


Land boundaries:

total: 2,233 km
border countries: Finland 614 km, Norway 1,619 km


Coastline:

3,218 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm (adjustments made to return a portion of
straits to high seas)
exclusive economic zone: agreed boundaries or midlines
continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation


Climate:

temperate in south with cold, cloudy winters and cool, partly cloudy
summers; subarctic in north


Terrain:

mostly flat or gently rolling lowlands; mountains in west


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: reclaimed bay of Lake Hammarsjon, near Kristianstad
-2.41 m
highest point: Kebnekaise 2,111 m


Natural resources:

iron ore, copper, lead, zinc, gold, silver, tungsten, uranium,
arsenic, feldspar, timber, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 5.93%
permanent crops: 0.01%
other: 94.06% (2005)


Irrigated land:

1,150 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

179 cu km (2005)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 2.68 cu km/yr (37%/54%/9%)
per capita: 296 cu m/yr (2002)


Natural hazards:

ice floes in the surrounding waters, especially in the Gulf of
Bothnia, can interfere with maritime traffic


Environment - current issues:

acid rain damage to soils and lakes; pollution of the North Sea and
the Baltic Sea


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

strategic location along Danish Straits linking Baltic and North Seas


People
Sweden



Population:

9,045,389 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 16% (male 745,110/female 703,857)
15-64 years: 65.6% (male 3,008,148/female 2,928,930)
65 years and over: 18.3% (male 729,500/female 929,844) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 41.3 years
male: 40.2 years
female: 42.4 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.157% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

10.15 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

10.24 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

1.66 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.78 male(s)/female
total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 2.75 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 2.91 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 2.58 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 80.74 years
male: 78.49 years
female: 83.13 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.67 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

3,600 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 100 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Swede(s)
adjective: Swedish


Ethnic groups:

indigenous population: Swedes with Finnish and Sami minorities;
foreign-born or first-generation immigrants: Finns, Yugoslavs,
Danes, Norwegians, Greeks, Turks


Religions:

Lutheran 87%, other (includes Roman Catholic, Orthodox, Baptist,
Muslim, Jewish, and Buddhist) 13%


Languages:

Swedish, small Sami- and Finnish-speaking minorities


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99%
male: 99%
female: 99% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 16 years
male: 15 years
female: 17 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

7.1% of GDP (2005)


Government
Sweden



Country name:

conventional long form: Kingdom of Sweden
conventional short form: Sweden
local long form: Konungariket Sverige
local short form: Sverige


Government type:

constitutional monarchy


Capital:

name: Stockholm
geographic coordinates: 59 20 N, 18 03 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

21 counties (lan, singular and plural); Blekinge, Dalarnas,
Gavleborgs, Gotlands, Hallands, Jamtlands, Jonkopings, Kalmar,
Kronobergs, Norrbottens, Orebro, Ostergotlands, Skane,
Sodermanlands, Stockholm, Uppsala, Varmlands, Vasterbottens,
Vasternorrlands, Vastmanlands, Vastra Gotalands


Independence:

6 June 1523 (Gustav VASA elected king)


National holiday:

Swedish Flag Day, 6 June (1916); National Day, 6 June (1983)


Constitution:

1 January 1975


Legal system:

civil law system influenced by customary law; accepts compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: King CARL XVI GUSTAF (since 19 September 1973); Heir
Apparent Princess VICTORIA Ingrid Alice Desiree, daughter of the
monarch (born 14 July 1977)
head of government: Prime Minister Fredrik REINFELDT (since 5
October 2006)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the prime minister
elections: the monarchy is hereditary; following legislative
elections, the prime minister is elected by the parliament; election
last held on 17 September 2006 (next to be held in September 2010)
election results: Fredrik REINFELDT elected prime minister with 175
out of 349 votes


Legislative branch:

unicameral Parliament or Riksdag (349 seats; members are elected by
popular vote on a proportional representation basis to serve
four-year terms)
elections: last held on 17 September 2006 (next to be held in
September 2010)
election results: percent of vote by party - Social Democrats 37.2%,
Moderates 27.8%, Center Party 8.3%, Liberal People's Party 8.0%,
Christian Democrats 6.9%, Left Party 6.3%, Greens 5.4%; seats by
party - Social Democrats 130, Moderates 97, Center Party 29, Liberal
People's Party 28, Christian Democrats 24, Left Party 22, Greens 19


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court or Hogsta Domstolen (judges are appointed by the prime
minister and the cabinet)


Political parties and leaders:

Center Party [Maud OLOFSSON]; Christian Democratic Party [Goran
HAGGLUND]; Environment Party the Greens [no formal leader but party
spokespersons are Maria WETTERSTRAND and Peter ERIKSSON]; Left Party
or V (formerly Communist) [Lars OHLY]; Liberal People's Party [Jan
BJORKLUND]; Moderate Party (conservative) [Fredrik REINFELDT];
Social Democratic Party [Mona SAHLIN]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Children's Rights in Society; Central Association of Salarited
Emplyees or TCO; Swedish Federation of Trade Unions or LO
other: media


International organization participation:

ADB (nonregional members), AfDB (nonregional members), Arctic
Council, Australia Group, BIS, CBSS, CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, ESA,
EU, FAO, G-9, G-10, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA,
IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURCAT, MONUC, NAM (guest), NC,
NEA, NIB, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, Paris Club, PCA,
PFP, Schengen Convention, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIL,
UNMIS, UNMOGIP, UNOMIG, UNRWA, UNTSO, UPU, WCO, WEU (observer),
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Jonas HAFSTROM
chancery: 2900 K Street NW, Washington, DC 20007
telephone: [1] (202) 467-2600
FAX: [1] (202) 467-2699
consulate(s) general: Chicago, Los Angeles, New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Michael M. WOOD
embassy: Dag Hammarskjolds Vag 31, SE-11589 Stockholm
mailing address: American Embassy Stockholm, US Department of State,
5750 Stockholm Place, Washington, DC 20521-5750
telephone: [46] (08) 783 53 00
FAX: [46] (08) 661 19 64


Flag description:

blue with a golden yellow cross extending to the edges of the flag;
the vertical part of the cross is shifted to the hoist side in the
style of the Dannebrog (Danish flag)


Economy
Sweden



Economy - overview:

Aided by peace and neutrality for the whole of the 20th century,
Sweden has achieved an enviable standard of living under a mixed
system of high-tech capitalism and extensive welfare benefits. It
has a modern distribution system, excellent internal and external
communications, and a skilled labor force. Timber, hydropower, and
iron ore constitute the resource base of an economy heavily oriented
toward foreign trade. Privately owned firms account for about 90% of
industrial output, of which the engineering sector accounts for 50%
of output and exports. Agriculture accounts for only 1% of GDP and
2% of employment. Sweden is in the midst of a sustained economic
upswing, boosted by increased domestic demand and strong exports.
This and robust finances have offered the center-right government
considerable scope to implement its reform program aimed at
increasing employment, reducing welfare dependence, and streamlining
the state's role in the economy. The government plans to sell $31
billion in state assets during the next three years to further
stimulate growth and raise revenue to pay down the federal debt. In
September 2003, Swedish voters turned down entry into the euro
system concerned about the impact on the economy and sovereignty.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$338.5 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$455.3 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

2.7% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$37,500 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 1.5%
industry: 28.8%
services: 69.7% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

4.839 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 2%
industry: 24%
services: 74% (2000 est.)


Unemployment rate:

6.1% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 3.6%
highest 10%: 22.2% (2000)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

23 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

19% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $249.1 billion
expenditures: $233.5 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

41.7% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.2% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

3.5% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

4% (31 December 2004)


Stock of money:

$217.1 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$48.49 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$630.8 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

barley, wheat, sugar beets; meat, milk


Industries:

iron and steel, precision equipment (bearings, radio and telephone
parts, armaments), wood pulp and paper products, processed foods,
motor vehicles


Industrial production growth rate:

3% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

143.8 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

133.6 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

14.74 billion kWh (2007)


Electricity - imports:

16.61 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 4%
hydro: 50.8%
nuclear: 43%
other: 2.3% (2001)


Oil - production:

2,350 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

353,700 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

219,200 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

581,000 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

1.006 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

1.006 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

$37.97 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$170.1 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

machinery 35%, motor vehicles, paper products, pulp and wood, iron
and steel products, chemicals


Exports - partners:

Germany 10.4%, Norway 9.4%, US 7.6%, Denmark 7.4%, UK 7.1%, Finland
6.4%, Netherlands 5.1%, France 5%, Belgium 4.6% (2007)


Imports:

$151.4 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery, petroleum and petroleum products, chemicals, motor
vehicles, iron and steel; foodstuffs, clothing


Imports - partners:

Germany 18.4%, Denmark 9.2%, Norway 8.3%, UK 6.8%, Finland 6.1%,
Netherlands 5.8%, France 5%, China 4.3%, Belgium 4.1% (2007)


Economic aid - donor:

ODA, $3.955 billion (2006)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$31.04 billion (2006 est.)


Debt - external:

$598.2 billion (30 June 2006)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$216.6 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$261.5 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$403.9 billion (2005)


Currency (code):

Swedish krona (SEK)


Currency code:

SEK


Exchange rates:

Swedish kronor (SEK) per US dollar - 6.7629 (2007), 7.3731 (2006),
7.4731 (2005), 7.3489 (2004), 8.0863 (2003)


Communications
Sweden



Telephones - main lines in use:

5.506 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

10.371 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: highly developed telecommunications
infrastructure; ranked among leading countries for fixed-line,
mobile-cellular, Internet and broadband penetration
domestic: coaxial and multiconductor cables carry most of the voice
traffic; parallel microwave radio relay systems carry some
additional telephone channels
international: country code - 46; submarine cables provide links to
other Nordic countries and Europe; satellite earth stations - 1
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean), 1 Eutelsat, and 1 Inmarsat (Atlantic and
Indian Ocean regions); note - Sweden shares the Inmarsat earth
station with the other Nordic countries (Denmark, Finland, Iceland,
and Norway)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 265, shortwave 1 (1998)


Radios:

8.25 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

169 (plus 1,299 repeaters) (1995)


Televisions:

4.6 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.se


Internet hosts:

3.579 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

29 (2000)


Internet users:

7 million (2007)


Transportation
Sweden



Airports:

250 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 152
over 3,047 m: 3
2,438 to 3,047 m: 12
1,524 to 2,437 m: 75
914 to 1,523 m: 24
under 914 m: 38 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 98
914 to 1,523 m: 6
under 914 m: 92 (2007)


Heliports:

2 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 798 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 11,528 km
standard gauge: 11,528 km 1.435-m gauge (7,527 km electrified) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 425,300 km
paved: 139,300 km (includes 1,740 km of expressways)
unpaved: 286,000 km (2008)


Waterways:

2,052 km (2005)


Merchant marine:

total: 195
by type: bulk carrier 6, cargo 23, carrier 1, chemical tanker 45,
passenger 4, passenger/cargo 36, petroleum tanker 15, roll on/roll
off 37, specialized tanker 3, vehicle carrier 25
foreign-owned: 41 (Denmark 4, Estonia 2, Finland 12, Germany 5,
Italy 9, Norway 7, UK 2)
registered in other countries: 207 (Antigua and Barbuda 1, Bahamas
4, Barbados 7, Bermuda 20, Cook Islands 8, Cyprus 2, Denmark 6,
Finland 2, France 9, Germany 1, Gibraltar 13, Isle of Man 1, Italy
1, Liberia 10, Malaysia 3, Malta 2, Marshall Islands 1, Netherlands
28, Netherlands Antilles 1, Norway 31, Norway 3, Panama 6, Portugal
3, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 2, Singapore 20, UK 17, US 5)
(2008)


Ports and terminals:

Brofjorden, Goteborg, Helsingborg, Lulea, Malmo, Stenungsund,
Stockholm, Trelleborg, Visby


Military
Sweden



Military branches:

Swedish Armed Forces (Forsvarsmakten): Army (Armen), Royal Swedish
Navy (Marinen), Swedish Air Force (Svenska Flygvapnet) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

19 years of age for compulsory military service; conscript service
obligation: 7-15 months (Navy), 8-12 months (Air Force); after
completing initial service, soldiers have a reserve commitment until
age 47 (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,052,890
females age 16-49: 1,980,550 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,699,115
females age 16-49: 1,637,868 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 64,605
female: 61,110 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.5% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Sweden



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Switzerland

Introduction
Switzerland



Background:

The Swiss Confederation was founded in 1291 as a defensive alliance
among three cantons. In succeeding years, other localities joined
the original three. The Swiss Confederation secured its independence
from the Holy Roman Empire in 1499. A constitution of 1848,
subsequently modified in 1874, replaced the confederation with a
centralized federal government. Switzerland's sovereignty and
neutrality have long been honored by the major European powers, and
the country was not involved in either of the two World Wars. The
political and economic integration of Europe over the past half
century, as well as Switzerland's role in many UN and international
organizations, has strengthened Switzerland's ties with its
neighbors. However, the country did not officially become a UN
member until 2002. Switzerland remains active in many UN and
international organizations but retains a strong commitment to
neutrality.


Geography
Switzerland



Location:

Central Europe, east of France, north of Italy


Geographic coordinates:

47 00 N, 8 00 E


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 41,290 sq km
land: 39,770 sq km
water: 1,520 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly less than twice the size of New Jersey


Land boundaries:

total: 1,852 km
border countries: Austria 164 km, France 573 km, Italy 740 km,
Liechtenstein 41 km, Germany 334 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

temperate, but varies with altitude; cold, cloudy, rainy/snowy
winters; cool to warm, cloudy, humid summers with occasional showers


Terrain:

mostly mountains (Alps in south, Jura in northwest) with a central
plateau of rolling hills, plains, and large lakes


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Lake Maggiore 195 m
highest point: Dufourspitze 4,634 m


Natural resources:

hydropower potential, timber, salt


Land use:

arable land: 9.91%
permanent crops: 0.58%
other: 89.51% (2005)


Irrigated land:

250 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

53.3 cu km (2005)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 2.52 cu km/yr (24%/74%/2%)
per capita: 348 cu m/yr (2002)


Natural hazards:

avalanches, landslides, flash floods


Environment - current issues:

air pollution from vehicle emissions and open-air burning; acid
rain; water pollution from increased use of agricultural
fertilizers; loss of biodiversity


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Marine Dumping, Marine Life
Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical
Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea


Geography - note:

landlocked; crossroads of northern and southern Europe; along with
southeastern France, northern Italy, and southwestern Austria, has
the highest elevations in the Alps


People
Switzerland



Population:

7,581,520 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 15.8% (male 623,213/female 577,430)
15-64 years: 68.2% (male 2,605,044/female 2,562,354)
65 years and over: 16% (male 501,699/female 711,780) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 40.7 years
male: 39.6 years
female: 41.7 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.329% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

9.62 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

8.54 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

2.21 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.08 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.7 male(s)/female
total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 4.23 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 4.71 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 3.73 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 80.74 years
male: 77.91 years
female: 83.71 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.44 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.4% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

13,000 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 100 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Swiss (singular and plural)
adjective: Swiss


Ethnic groups:

German 65%, French 18%, Italian 10%, Romansch 1%, other 6%


Religions:

Roman Catholic 41.8%, Protestant 35.3%, Muslim 4.3%, Orthodox 1.8%,
other Christian 0.4%, other 1%, unspecified 4.3%, none 11.1% (2000
census)


Languages:

German (official) 63.7%, French (official) 20.4%, Italian (official)
6.5%, Serbo-Croatian 1.5%, Albanian 1.3%, Portuguese 1.2%, Spanish
1.1%, English 1%, Romansch (official) 0.5%, other 2.8% (2000 census)
note: German, French, Italian, and Romansch are all national and
official languages


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99%
male: 99%
female: 99% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 15 years
male: 15 years
female: 15 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

5.8% of GDP (2005)


Government
Switzerland



Country name:

conventional long form: Swiss Confederation
conventional short form: Switzerland
local long form: Schweizerische Eidgenossenschaft (German);
Confederation Suisse (French); Confederazione Svizzera (Italian);
Confederaziun Svizra (Romansh)
local short form: Schweiz (German); Suisse (French); Svizzera
(Italian); Svizra (Romansh)


Government type:

formally a confederation but similar in structure to a federal
republic


Capital:

name: Bern
geographic coordinates: 46 57 N, 7 26 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

26 cantons (cantons, singular - canton in French; cantoni, singular
- cantone in Italian; Kantone, singular - Kanton in German); Aargau,
Appenzell Ausser-Rhoden, Appenzell Inner-Rhoden, Basel-Landschaft,
Basel-Stadt, Bern, Fribourg, Geneve, Glarus, Graubunden, Jura,
Luzern, Neuchatel, Nidwalden, Obwalden, Sankt Gallen, Schaffhausen,
Schwyz, Solothurn, Thurgau, Ticino, Uri, Valais, Vaud, Zug, Zurich


Independence:

1 August 1291 (founding of the Swiss Confederation)


National holiday:

Founding of the Swiss Confederation, 1 August (1291)


Constitution:

revision of Constitution of 1874 approved by the Federal Parliament
18 December 1998, adopted by referendum 18 April 1999, officially
entered into force 1 January 2000


Legal system:

civil law system influenced by customary law; judicial review of
legislative acts, except with respect to federal decrees of general
obligatory character; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with
reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Pascal COUCHEPIN (since 1 January 2008);
Vice President Hans-Rudolf MERZ (since 1 January 2008); note - the
president is both the chief of state and head of government
representing the Federal Council; the Federal Council is the formal
chief of state and head of government whose council members,
rotating in one-year terms as federal president, represent the
Council
head of government: President Pascal COUCHEPIN (since 1 January
2008); Vice President Hans-Rudolf MERZ (since 1 January 2008)
cabinet: Federal Council or Bundesrat (in German), Conseil Federal
(in French), Consiglio Federale (in Italian) elected by the Federal
Assembly usually from among its members for a four-year term
elections: president and vice president elected by the Federal
Assembly from among the members of the Federal Council for a
one-year term (they may not serve consecutive terms); election last
held on 12 December 2007 (next to be held in December 2008)
election results: Pascal COUCHEPIN elected president; percent of
Federal Assembly vote - 80.0%; Hans-Rudolf MERZ elected vice
president; percent of Federal Assembly vote - 86.5%


Legislative branch:

bicameral Federal Assembly or Bundesversammlung (in German),
Assemblee Federale (in French), Assemblea Federale (in Italian)
consists of the Council of States or Standerat (in German), Conseil
des Etats (in French), Consiglio degli Stati (in Italian) (46 seats;
membership consists of 2 representatives from each canton and 1 from
each half canton; to serve four-year terms) and the National Council
or Nationalrat (in German), Conseil National (in French), Consiglio
Nazionale (in Italian) (200 seats; members are elected by popular
vote on the basis of proportional representation to serve four-year
terms)
elections: Council of States - last held in most cantons on 19
October 2003 (each canton determines when the next election will be
held); National Council - last held on 21 October 2007 (next to be
held in October 2011)
election results: Council of States - percent of vote by party - NA;
seats by party - CVP 15, FDP 14, SVP 8, SPS 6, other 3; National
Council - percent of vote by party - SVP 29%, SPS 19.5%, FDP 15.6%,
CVP 14.6%, Greens 9.6%, other 11.7%; seats by party - SVP 62, SPS
43, FDP 31, CVP 31, Green Party 20, other small parties 13; note -
seating for the Council of States as of December 2007 is CVP 16, FDP
12, SVP 7, SPS 9, other 2


Judicial branch:

Federal Supreme Court (judges elected for six-year terms by the
Federal Assembly)


Political parties and leaders:

Green Party (Gruene Partei der Schweiz or Gruene, Parti Ecologiste
Suisse or Les Verts, Partito Ecologista Svizzero or I Verdi, Partida
Ecologica Svizra or La Verda) [Ruth GENNER]; Christian Democratic
People's Party (Christlichdemokratische Volkspartei der Schweiz or
CVP, Parti Democrate-Chretien Suisse or PDC, Partito
Democratico-Cristiano Popolare Svizzero or PDC, Partida
Cristiandemocratica dalla Svizra or PCD) [Christophe DARBELLAY];
Radical Free Democratic Party (Freisinnig-Demokratische Partei der
Schweiz or FDP, Parti Radical-Democratique Suisse or PRD, Partitio
Liberal-Radicale Svizzero or PLR) [Fulvio PELLI]; Social Democratic
Party (Sozialdemokratische Partei der Schweiz or SPS, Parti
Socialist Suisse or PSS, Partito Socialista Svizzero or PSS, Partida
Socialdemocratica de la Svizra or PSS) [Hans-Juerg FEHR]; Swiss
People's Party (Schweizerische Volkspartei or SVP, Union
Democratique du Centre or UDC, Unione Democratica de Centro or UDC,
Uniun Democratica dal Center or UDC) [Ueli MAURER]; and other minor
parties


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

ADB (nonregional members), AfDB (nonregional members), Australia
Group, BIS, CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EFTA, ESA, FAO, G-10, IADB, IAEA,
IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF,
IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAIA
(observer), MIGA, MONUC, NAM (guest), NEA, NSG, OAS (observer),
OECD, OIF, OPCW, OSCE, Paris Club, PCA, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNHCR, UNIDO, UNITAR, UNOMIG, UNRWA, UNTSO, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO,
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Urs ZISWILER
chancery: 2900 Cathedral Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 745-7900
FAX: [1] (202) 387-2564
consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Chicago, Los Angeles, New York, San
Francisco


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Peter R. CONEWAY
embassy: Sulgeneckstrasse 19, CH-3007 Bern
mailing address: use embassy street address
telephone: [41] (031) 357 70 11
FAX: [41] (031) 357 73 44


Flag description:

red square with a bold, equilateral white cross in the center that
does not extend to the edges of the flag


Economy
Switzerland



Economy - overview:

Switzerland is a peaceful, prosperous, and stable modern market
economy with low unemployment, a highly skilled labor force, and a
per capita GDP larger than that of the big Western European
economies. The Swiss in recent years have brought their economic
practices largely into conformity with the EU's to enhance their
international competitiveness. Switzerland remains a safehaven for
investors, because it has maintained a degree of bank secrecy and
has kept up the franc's long-term external value. Reflecting the
anemic economic conditions of Europe, GDP growth stagnated during
the 2001-03 period, improved during 2004-05, and jumped to 2.9% in
2006, and 2.6% in 2007. Unemployment has remained at less than half
the EU average.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$303.2 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$423.9 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

3.1% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$40,100 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 1.5%
industry: 34%
services: 64.5% (2003 est.)


Labor force:

3.954 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 4.6%
industry: 26.3%
services: 69.1% (1998)


Unemployment rate:

2.8% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.9%
highest 10%: 25.9% (2000)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

33.7 (2000)


Investment (gross fixed):

21.5% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $150.6 billion
expenditures: $141.5 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

44.2% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

0.7% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

2.05% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

3.15% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$213.9 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$450.7 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$855.4 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

grains, fruits, vegetables; meat, eggs


Industries:

machinery, chemicals, watches, textiles, precision instruments,
tourism, banking, and insurance


Industrial production growth rate:

6.5% (2006 est.)


Electricity - production:

64.56 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

58.77 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

36.88 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

34.82 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 1.3%
hydro: 59.5%
nuclear: 37.1%
other: 2% (2001)


Oil - production:

3,202 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

244,900 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

9,370 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

274,900 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

NA


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

3.232 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

3.232 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

$72.35 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$200.1 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

machinery, chemicals, metals, watches, agricultural products


Exports - partners:

Germany 20.3%, US 9.7%, Italy 8.7%, France 8.4%, UK 5.1% (2007)


Imports:

$187.1 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery, chemicals, vehicles, metals; agricultural products,
textiles


Imports - partners:

Germany 32.6%, Italy 10.8%, France 9.5%, US 5.8%, Netherlands 4.6%,
Austria 4.2%, UK 4.2% (2007)


Economic aid - donor:

ODA, $1.646 billion (2006)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$75.37 billion (2006 est.)


Debt - external:

$1.34 trillion (30 June 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$306.4 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$605.6 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$938.6 billion (2005)


Currency (code):

Swiss franc (CHF)


Currency code:

CHF


Exchange rates:

Swiss francs (CHF) per US dollar - 1.1973 (2007), 1.2539 (2006),
1.2452 (2005), 1.2435 (2004), 1.3467 (2003)


Communications
Switzerland



Telephones - main lines in use:

5 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

8.096 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: highly developed telecommunications
infrastructure with excellent domestic and international services
domestic: ranked among leading countries for fixed-line teledensity
and infrastructure; mobile-cellular subscribership roughly 100 per
100 persons; extensive cable and microwave radio relay networks
international: country code - 41; satellite earth stations - 2
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean and Indian Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 4, FM 113 (plus many low-power stations), shortwave 2 (1998)


Radios:

7.1 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

115 (plus 1,919 repeaters) (1995)


Televisions:

3.31 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.ch


Internet hosts:

3.437 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

44 (Switzerland and Liechtenstein) (2000)


Internet users:

4.61 million (2007)


Transportation
Switzerland



Airports:

65 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 42
over 3,047 m: 3
2,438 to 3,047 m: 4
1,524 to 2,437 m: 12
914 to 1,523 m: 7
under 914 m: 16 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 23
under 914 m: 23 (2007)


Heliports:

2 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 1,781 km; oil 94 km; refined products 7 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 4,839 km
standard gauge: 3,561 km 1.435-m gauge (3,195 km electrified)
narrow gauge: 1,268 km 1.000-m gauge (1,274 km electrified); 10 km
0.800-m gauge (10 km electrified) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 71,298 km
paved: 71,298 km (includes 1,758 of expressways) (2006)


Waterways:

65 km (Rhine River between Basel-Rheinfelden and
Schaffhausen-Bodensee) (2003)


Merchant marine:

total: 35
by type: bulk carrier 13, cargo 9, chemical tanker 6, container 6,
specialized tanker 1
registered in other countries: 106 (Antigua and Barbuda 8, Bahamas
1, France 3, Italy 8, Liberia 13, Malta 20, Marshall Islands 12,
Panama 25, Portugal 2, Russia 3, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 6,
Singapore 2, Tonga 1, UK 1, Vanuatu 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Basel


Military
Switzerland



Military branches:

Swiss Armed Forces: Land Forces, Swiss Air Force (Schweizer
Luftwaffe) (2007)


Military service age and obligation:

19 years of age for male compulsory military service; 18 years of
age for voluntary male and female military service; the Swiss
Constitution states that "every Swiss male is obliged to do military
service"; every Swiss male has to serve at least 260 days in the
armed forces; conscripts receive 18 weeks of mandatory training,
followed by seven 3-week intermittent recalls for training during
the next 10 years (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,852,580
females age 16-49: 1,807,667 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,513,984
females age 16-49: 1,478,761 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 49,205
female: 45,220 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Switzerland



Disputes - international:

none


Illicit drugs:

a major international financial center vulnerable to the layering
and integration stages of money laundering; despite significant
legislation and reporting requirements, secrecy rules persist and
nonresidents are permitted to conduct business through offshore
entities and various intermediaries; transit country for and
consumer of South American cocaine, Southwest Asian heroin, and
Western European synthetics; domestic cannabis cultivation and
limited ecstasy production



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Syria

Introduction
Syria



Background:

Following the breakup of the Ottoman Empire during World War I,
France administered Syria until its independence in 1946. The
country lacked political stability, however, and experienced a
series of military coups during its first decades. Syria united with
Egypt in February 1958 to form the United Arab Republic. In
September 1961, the two entities separated, and the Syrian Arab
Republic was reestablished. In November 1970, Hafiz al-ASAD, a
member of the Socialist Ba'th Party and the minority Alawite sect,
seized power in a bloodless coup and brought political stability to
the country. In the 1967 Arab-Israeli War, Syria lost the Golan
Heights to Israel. During the 1990s, Syria and Israel held
occasional peace talks over its return. Following the death of
President al-ASAD, his son, Bashar al-ASAD, was approved as
president by popular referendum in July 2000. Syrian troops -
stationed in Lebanon since 1976 in an ostensible peacekeeping role -
were withdrawn in April 2005. During the July-August 2006 conflict
between Israel and Hizballah, Syria placed its military forces on
alert but did not intervene directly on behalf of its ally Hizballah.


Geography
Syria



Location:

Middle East, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between Lebanon and
Turkey


Geographic coordinates:

35 00 N, 38 00 E


Map references:

Middle East


Area:

total: 185,180 sq km
land: 184,050 sq km
water: 1,130 sq km
note: includes 1,295 sq km of Israeli-occupied territory


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than North Dakota


Land boundaries:

total: 2,253 km
border countries: Iraq 605 km, Israel 76 km, Jordan 375 km, Lebanon
375 km, Turkey 822 km


Coastline:

193 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm


Climate:

mostly desert; hot, dry, sunny summers (June to August) and mild,
rainy winters (December to February) along coast; cold weather with
snow or sleet periodically in Damascus


Terrain:

primarily semiarid and desert plateau; narrow coastal plain;
mountains in west


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: unnamed location near Lake Tiberias -200 m
highest point: Mount Hermon 2,814 m


Natural resources:

petroleum, phosphates, chrome and manganese ores, asphalt, iron ore,
rock salt, marble, gypsum, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 24.8%
permanent crops: 4.47%
other: 70.73% (2005)


Irrigated land:

13,330 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

46.1 cu km (1997)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 19.95 cu km/yr (3%/2%/95%)
per capita: 1,048 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

dust storms, sandstorms


Environment - current issues:

deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification; water
pollution from raw sewage and petroleum refining wastes; inadequate
potable water


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification


Geography - note:

there are 42 Israeli settlements and civilian land use sites in the
Israeli-occupied Golan Heights (August 2005 est.)


People
Syria



Population:

19,747,586
note: in addition, about 40,000 people live in the Israeli-occupied
Golan Heights - 20,000 Arabs (18,000 Druze and 2,000 Alawites) and
about 20,000 Israeli settlers (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 36.2% (male 3,679,473/female 3,467,096)
15-64 years: 60.5% (male 6,119,459/female 5,822,376)
65 years and over: 3.3% (male 310,838/female 348,344) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 21.4 years
male: 21.3 years
female: 21.5 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.189% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

26.57 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

4.68 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.89 male(s)/female
total population: 1.05 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 26.78 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 27.04 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 26.52 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 70.9 years
male: 69.53 years
female: 72.35 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

3.21 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

less than 0.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

fewer than 500 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 200 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Syrian(s)
adjective: Syrian


Ethnic groups:

Arab 90.3%, Kurds, Armenians, and other 9.7%


Religions:

Sunni Muslim 74%, other Muslim (includes Alawite, Druze) 16%,
Christian (various denominations) 10%, Jewish (tiny communities in
Damascus, Al Qamishli, and Aleppo)


Languages:

Arabic (official); Kurdish, Armenian, Aramaic, Circassian widely
understood; French, English somewhat understood


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 79.6%
male: 86%
female: 73.6% (2004 census)


Education expenditures:

3.9% of GDP (1999)


Government
Syria



Country name:

conventional long form: Syrian Arab Republic
conventional short form: Syria
local long form: Al Jumhuriyah al Arabiyah as Suriyah
local short form: Suriyah
former: United Arab Republic (with Egypt)


Government type:

republic under an authoritarian military-dominated regime


Capital:

name: Damascus
geographic coordinates: 33 30 N, 36 18 E
time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins 1 April; ends 30 September


Administrative divisions:

14 provinces (muhafazat, singular - muhafazah); Al Hasakah, Al
Ladhiqiyah, Al Qunaytirah, Ar Raqqah, As Suwayda', Dar'a, Dayr az
Zawr, Dimashq, Halab, Hamah, Hims, Idlib, Rif Dimashq, Tartus


Independence:

17 April 1946 (from League of Nations mandate under French
administration)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 17 April (1946)


Constitution:

13 March 1973


Legal system:

based on a combination of French and Ottoman civil law; Islamic law
is used in the family court system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Bashar al-ASAD (since 17 July 2000); Vice
President Farouk al-SHARA (since 11 February 2006) oversees foreign
policy; Vice President Najah al-ATTAR (since 23 March 2006) oversees
cultural policy
head of government: Prime Minister Muhammad Naji al-UTRI (since 10
September 2003); Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Affairs Abdallah
al-DARDARI (since 14 June 2005)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
elections: president approved by popular referendum for a second
seven-year term (no term limits); referendum last held on 27 May
2007 (next to be held in May 2014); the president appoints the vice
presidents, prime minister, and deputy prime ministers
election results: Bashar al-ASAD approved as president; percent of
vote - Bashar al-ASAD 97.6%


Legislative branch:

unicameral People's Council or Majlis al-Shaab (250 seats; members
elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
elections: last held on 22-23 April 2007 (next to be held in 2011)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
NPF 172, independents 78


Judicial branch:

Supreme Judicial Council (appoints and dismisses judges; headed by
the president); national level - Supreme Constitutional Court
(adjudicates electoral disputes and rules on constitutionality of
laws and decrees; justices appointed for four-year terms by the
President); Court of Cassation; Appeals Courts (Appeals Courts
represent an intermediate level between the Court of Cassation and
local level courts); local level - Magistrate Courts; Courts of
First Instance; Juvenile Courts; Customs Courts; specialized courts
- Economic Security Courts (hear cases related to economic crimes);
Supreme State Security Court (hear cases related to national
security); Personal Status Courts (religious; hear cases related to
marriage and divorce)


Political parties and leaders:

legal parties: National Progressive Front or NPF [President Bashar
al-ASAD, Dr. Suleiman QADDAH] (includes Arab Socialist Renaissance
(Ba'th) Party [President Bashar al-ASAD]; Socialist Unionist
Democratic Party [Fadlallah Nasr Al-DIN]; Syrian Arab Socialist
Union or ASU [Safwan QUDSI]; Syrian Communist Party (two branches)
[Wissal Farha BAKDASH, Yusuf Rashid FAYSAL]; Syrian Social
Nationalist Party [Ali QANSU]; Unionist Socialist Party [Fayez
ISMAIL])
opposition parties not legally recognized:: Arab Democratic
Socialist Union Party [Hasan Abdul AZIM]; Arab Socialist Movement;
Democratic Ba'th Party [Ibrahim MAHKOS]; People's Democratic Party
[Riad al TURK]; Revolutionary Workers' Party [Abdul Hafeez al HAFEZ]
Kurdish parties (considered illegal): Kurdish Democratic Front
[Abdul Hamid DARWISH] (includes four parties); Kurdish Coordination
[Abdul Hakim BASHAR] (includes Azadi Party [Kheirudin MURAD], Future
Party [Masha'l TAMMO], Yekity Party [Hasam SALE])
other parties: Nahda Party [Abdul Aziz al MISLET]; Syrian Democratic
Party [Mustafa QALAAJI]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Damascus Declaration National Council [Riyad SEIF, secretary
general] (a broad alliance of opposition groups and individuals
including: Committee for Revival of Civil Society [Michel KILO,
Riyad SEIF], Communist Action Party [Fateh JAMOUS], Kurdish
Democratic Alliance, Kurdish Democratic Front, Liberal Nationalists'
Movement, National Democratic Front, National Democratic Rally, and
Syrian Human Rights Society or HRAS [Fawed FAWUZ]); National
Salvation Front (alliance between former Vice President Abd al-Halim
KHADDAM, the SMB, and other small opposition groups); Syrian Muslim
Brotherhood or SMB [Sadr al-Din al-BAYANUNI] (operates in exile in
London; endorsed the Damascus Declaration, but is not an official
member)


International organization participation:

ABEDA, AFESD, AMF, CAEU, FAO, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF,
IMO, Interpol, IOC, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, LAS, MIGA, NAM, OAPEC, OIC,
UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNRWA, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
WMO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Imad MUSTAFA
chancery: 2215 Wyoming Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 232-6313
FAX: [1] (202) 234-9548


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Maura
CONNELLY
embassy: Abou Roumaneh, Al-Mansour Street, No. 2, Damascus
mailing address: P. O. Box 29, Damascus
telephone: [963] (11) 3391-4444
FAX: [963] (11) 3391-3999


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and black, colors
associated with the Arab Liberation flag; two small, green,
five-pointed stars in a horizontal line centered in the white band;
former flag of the United Arab Republic where the two stars
represented the constituent states of Syria and Egypt; similar to
the flag of Yemen, which has a plain white band, Iraq, which has an
Arabic inscription centered in the white band, and that of Egypt,
which has a gold Eagle of Saladin centered in the white band; the
current design dates to 1980


Economy
Syria



Economy - overview:

The Syrian economy grew by an estimated 3.3% in real terms in 2007
led by the petroleum and agricultural sectors, which together
account for about one-half of GDP. Higher crude oil prices countered
declining oil production and led to higher budgetary and export
receipts. Damascus has implemented modest economic reforms in the
past few years, including cutting lending interest rates, opening
private banks, consolidating all of the multiple exchange rates,
raising prices on some subsidized items, most notably gasoline and
cement, and establishing the Damascus Stock Exchange - which is set
to begin operations in 2009. In October 2007, for example, Damascus
raised the price of subsidized gasoline by 20%, and may institute a
rationing system in 2008. In addition, President ASAD signed
legislative decrees to encourage corporate ownership reform, and to
allow the Central Bank to issue Treasury bills and bonds for
government debt. Nevertheless, the economy remains highly controlled
by the government. Long-run economic constraints include declining
oil production, high unemployment and inflation, rising budget
deficits, and increasing pressure on water supplies caused by heavy
use in agriculture, rapid population growth, industrial expansion,
and water pollution.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$90.37 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$37.76 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

4.3% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$4,700 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 24%
industry: 27.9%
services: 48.2% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

5.462 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 19.2%
industry: 14.5%
services: 66.3% (2006 est.)


Unemployment rate:

9% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

11.9% (2006 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Investment (gross fixed):

21.5% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $8.393 billion
expenditures: $11.21 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

37.7% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

12.2% (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

8% (31 December 2005)


Stock of money:

$58.84 billion
note: This number reflects the greatly overvalued official exchange
rate of 11.23 Syrian pounds per dollar. At the unofficial rate of 50
Syrian pounds per dollar, the stock of Syrian pounds would equal
US$13.22 billion and Syria's velocity of money (the number of times
money turns over in the course of a year) would be three, in line
with the velocity of money for other countries in the region. (31
December 2006)


Stock of quasi money:

$45.93 billion (31 December 2006)


Stock of domestic credit:

$50.92 billion (31 December 2006)


Agriculture - products:

wheat, barley, cotton, lentils, chickpeas, olives, sugar beets;
beef, mutton, eggs, poultry, milk


Industries:

petroleum, textiles, food processing, beverages, tobacco, phosphate
rock mining, cement, oil seeds crushing, car assembly


Industrial production growth rate:

2.5% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

34.94 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

34 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - exports:

986 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 57.6%
hydro: 42.4%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

433,200 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

261,000 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

254,500 bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - imports:

160,000 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - proved reserves:

2.5 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

7.8 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

4.4 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

NA cu m


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

240.7 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$908 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$11.14 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

crude oil, minerals, petroleum products, fruits and vegetables,
cotton fiber, textiles, clothing, meat and live animals, wheat


Exports - partners:

Iraq 30%, Lebanon 10%, Germany 9.7%, Italy 8%, Egypt 5.5%, Saudi
Arabia 5.2%, France 4.9% (2007)


Imports:

$10.5 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and transport equipment, electric power machinery, food
and livestock, metal and metal products, chemicals and chemical
products, plastics, yarn, paper


Imports - partners:

Saudi Arabia 12%, China 8.7%, Egypt 6.2%, Italy 6%, UAE 5.9%,
Ukraine 4.8%, Russia 4.8%, Germany 4.7%, Iran 4.3% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$213 million (2008 est.)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$6.046 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$6.633 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Syrian pound (SYP)


Currency code:

SYP


Exchange rates:

Syrian pounds (SYP) per US dollar - 50.0085 (2007), 51.689 (2006),
50 (2005), 48.5 (2004), 52.8 (2003)
note: data for 2004-06 are the public sector rate; data for 2002-03
are the parallel market rate in 'Amman and Beirut; the official rate
for repaying loans was 11.25 Syrian pounds per US dollars during
2004-06,


Communications
Syria



Telephones - main lines in use:

3.452 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

6.7 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: fair system currently undergoing significant
improvement and digital upgrades, including fiber-optic technology
domestic: the number of fixed-line connections has increased
markedly since 2000; mobile-cellular service growing rapidly and
teledensity about 35 wireless telephones per 100 persons; coaxial
cable and microwave radio relay network
international: country code - 963; submarine cable connection to
Cyprus; satellite earth stations - 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean) and 1
Intersputnik (Atlantic Ocean region); coaxial cable and microwave
radio relay to Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, and Turkey; participant in
Medarabtel


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 14, FM 2, shortwave 1 (1998)


Radios:

4.15 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

44 (plus 17 repeaters) (1995)


Televisions:

1.05 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.sy


Internet hosts:

7,857 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

3.47 million (2007)


Transportation
Syria



Airports:

90 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 26
over 3,047 m: 6
2,438 to 3,047 m: 15
914 to 1,523 m: 3
under 914 m: 2 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 64
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 11
under 914 m: 52 (2007)


Heliports:

7 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 2,794 km; oil 2,000 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 2,711 km
standard gauge: 2,460 km 1.435-m gauge
narrow gauge: 251 km 1.050-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 97,401 km
paved: 19,490 km (includes 1,103 km of expressways)
unpaved: 77,911 km (2006)


Waterways:

900 km (not economically significant) (2005)


Merchant marine:

total: 77
by type: bulk carrier 5, cargo 65, carrier 4, container 1, petroleum
tanker 1, roll on/roll off 1
foreign-owned: 7 (Jordan 2, Lebanon 3, Romania 2)
registered in other countries: 196 (Barbados 1, Bolivia 2, Cambodia
48, Comoros 4, Cyprus 2, Dominica 2, Georgia 49, Hong Kong 1, North
Korea 1, Lebanon 2, Libya 2, Malta 6, Moldova 1, Panama 32, Saint
Kitts and Nevis 7, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 13, Sierra Leone
18, Slovakia 2, Togo 2, unknown 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Latakia, Tartus


Military
Syria



Military branches:

Syrian Armed Forces: Syrian Arab Army, Syrian Arab Navy, Syrian Arab
Air and Air Defense Forces (includes Air Defense Command) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for compulsory military service; conscript service
obligation - 30 months (18 months in the Syrian Arab Navy); women
are not conscripted but may volunteer to serve (2004)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 5,251,875
females age 16-49: 4,966,367 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 4,242,401
females age 16-49: 4,218,648 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 215,734
female: 203,106 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

5.9% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Syria



Disputes - international:

Golan Heights is Israeli-occupied with the almost 1,000-strong UN
Disengagement Observer Force (UNDOF) patrolling a buffer zone since
1964; lacking a treaty or other documentation describing the
boundary, portions of the Lebanon-Syria boundary are unclear with
several sections in dispute; since 2000, Lebanon has claimed Shaba'a
farms in the Golan Heights; 2004 Agreement and pending demarcation
settles border dispute with Jordan; approximately two million Iraqis
have fled the conflict in Iraq with the majority taking refuge in
Syria and Jordan


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 1-1.4 million (Iraq); 522,100
(Palestinian Refugees (UNRWA))
IDPs: 305,000 (most displaced from Golan Heights during 1967
Arab-Israeli War) (2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Syria is a destination and transit country for
women and children trafficked for commercial sexual exploitation and
forced labor; a significant number of women and children in the
large and expanding Iraqi refugee community in Syria are reportedly
forced into commercial sexual exploitation by Iraqi gangs or, in
some cases, their families; women from Indonesia, Sri Lanka, the
Philippines, Ethiopia, and Sierra Leone are recruited for work in
Syria as domestic servants, but some face conditions of involuntary
servitude, including long hours, non-payment of wages, withholding
of passports, restrictions on movement, threats, and physical or
sexual abuse
tier rating: Tier 3 - Syria again failed to report any law
enforcement efforts to punish trafficking offenses in 2007; in
addition, the government did not offer protection services to
victims of trafficking and may have arrested, prosecuted, or
deported some victims for prostitution or immigration violations;
Syria has not ratified the 2000 UN TIP Protocol (2008)


Illicit drugs:

a transit point for opiates, hashish, and cocaine bound for regional
and Western markets; weak anti-money-laundering controls and bank
privatization may leave it vulnerable to money laundering



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Taiwan

Introduction
Taiwan



Background:

In 1895, military defeat forced China to cede Taiwan to Japan.
Taiwan reverted to Chinese control after World War II. Following the
Communist victory on the mainland in 1949, 2 million Nationalists
fled to Taiwan and established a government using the 1946
constitution drawn up for all of China. Over the next five decades,
the ruling authorities gradually democratized and incorporated the
local population within the governing structure. In 2000, Taiwan
underwent its first peaceful transfer of power from the Nationalist
to the Democratic Progressive Party. Throughout this period, the
island prospered and became one of East Asia's economic "Tigers."
The dominant political issues continue to be the relationship
between Taiwan and China - specifically the question of eventual
unification - as well as domestic political and economic reform.


Geography
Taiwan



Location:

Eastern Asia, islands bordering the East China Sea, Philippine Sea,
South China Sea, and Taiwan Strait, north of the Philippines, off
the southeastern coast of China


Geographic coordinates:

23 30 N, 121 00 E


Map references:

Southeast Asia


Area:

total: 35,980 sq km
land: 32,260 sq km
water: 3,720 sq km
note: includes the Pescadores, Matsu, and Quemoy islands


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Maryland and Delaware combined


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

1,566.3 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; marine; rainy season during southwest monsoon (June to
August); cloudiness is persistent and extensive all year


Terrain:

eastern two-thirds mostly rugged mountains; flat to gently rolling
plains in west


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: South China Sea 0 m
highest point: Yu Shan 3,952 m


Natural resources:

small deposits of coal, natural gas, limestone, marble, and asbestos


Land use:

arable land: 24%
permanent crops: 1%
other: 75% (2001)


Irrigated land:

NA


Total renewable water resources:

67 cu km (2000)


Natural hazards:

earthquakes and typhoons


Environment - current issues:

air pollution; water pollution from industrial emissions, raw
sewage; contamination of drinking water supplies; trade in
endangered species; low-level radioactive waste disposal


Environment - international agreements:

party to: none of the selected agreements because of Taiwan's
international status
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements because of
Taiwan's international status


Geography - note:

strategic location adjacent to both the Taiwan Strait and the Luzon
Strait


People
Taiwan



Population:

22,920,946 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 17.3% (male 2,057,458/female 1,900,449)
15-64 years: 72.3% (male 8,362,038/female 8,204,834)
65 years and over: 10.5% (male 1,167,476/female 1,228,691) (2008
est.)


Median age:

total: 36 years
male: 35.5 years
female: 36.6 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.238% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

8.99 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

6.65 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

0.04 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.09 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.08 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.95 male(s)/female
total population: 1.02 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 5.45 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 5.75 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 5.11 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 77.76 years
male: 74.89 years
female: 80.89 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.13 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Taiwan (singular and plural)
note: example - he or she is from Taiwan; they are from Taiwan
adjective: Taiwan


Ethnic groups:

Taiwanese (including Hakka) 84%, mainland Chinese 14%, indigenous 2%


Religions:

mixture of Buddhist and Taoist 93%, Christian 4.5%, other 2.5%


Languages:

Mandarin Chinese (official), Taiwanese (Min), Hakka dialects


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 96.1%
male: NA
female: NA (2003)


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Taiwan



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Taiwan
local long form: none
local short form: T'ai-wan
former: Formosa


Government type:

multiparty democracy


Capital:

name: Taipei
geographic coordinates: 25 03 N, 121 30 E
time difference: UTC+8 (13 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

includes main island of Taiwan plus smaller islands nearby and off
coast of China's Fujian Province; Taiwan is divided into 18 counties
(hsien, singular and plural), 5 municipalities (shih, singular and
plural), and 2 special municipalities (chuan-shih, singular and
plural)
note: Taiwan uses a variety of romanization systems; while a
modified Wade-Giles system still dominates, the city of Taipei has
adopted a Pinyin romanization for street and place names within its
boundaries; other local authorities use different romanization
systems; names for administrative divisions that follow are taken
from the Taiwan Yearbook 2007 published by the Government
Information Office in Taipei.
counties: Changhua, Chiayi [county], Hsinchu, Hualien, Kaohsiung
[county], Kinmen, Lienchiang, Miaoli, Nantou, Penghu, Pingtung,
Taichung, Tainan, Taipei [county], Taitung, Taoyuan, Yilan, and
Yunlin
municipalities: Chiayi [city], Hsinchu, Keelung, Taichung, Tainan
special municipalities: Kaohsiung [city], Taipei [city]


National holiday:

Republic Day (Anniversary of the Chinese Revolution), 10 October
(1911)


Constitution:

25 December 1947; amended in 1992, 1994, 1997, 1999, 2000, 2005
note: constitution adopted on 25 December 1946; went into effect on
25 December 1947


Legal system:

based on civil law system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

20 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President MA Ying-jeou (since 20 May 2008); Vice
President Vincent SIEW (since 20 May 2008)
head of government: Premier (President of the Executive Yuan) LIO
Chao-shiuan (since 20 May 2008); Vice Premier (Vice President of
Executive Yuan) Paul CHIU (CHANG-hsiung) (since 20 May 2008)
cabinet: Executive Yuan - (ministers appointed by president on
recommendation of premier)
elections: president and vice president elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for four-year terms (eligible for a second term);
election last held 22 March 2008 (next to be held in March 2012);
premier appointed by the president; vice premiers appointed by the
president on the recommendation of the premier
election results: MA Ying-jeou elected president on 22 March 2008;
percent of vote - MA Ying-jeou 58.45%, Frank HSIEH 41.55%; MA
Ying-jeou takes office on 20 May 2008


Legislative branch:

unicameral Legislative Yuan (113 seats - 73 district members elected
by popular vote, 34 at-large members elected on basis of proportion
of islandwide votes received by participating political parties, 6
elected by popular vote among aboriginal populations; to serve
four-year terms); parties must receive 5% of vote to qualify for
at-large seats
elections: Legislative Yuan - last held 12 January 2008 (next to be
held in January 2012)
election results: Legislative Yuan - percent of vote by party - KMT
53.5%, DPP 38.2%, NPSU 2.4%, PFP 0.3%, others 1.6%, independents 4%;
seats by party - KMT 81, DPP 27, NPSU 3, PFP 1, independent 1


Judicial branch:

Judicial Yuan (justices appointed by the president with consent of
the Legislative Yuan)


Political parties and leaders:

Democratic Progressive Party or DPP [TSAI Ing-wen]; Kuomintang or
KMT (Nationalist Party) [WU Po-hsiung]; Non-Partisan Solidarity
Union or NPSU [CHANG Po-ya]; People First Party or PFP [James SOONG]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Organization for Taiwan Nation Building; World United Formosans for
Independence
other: environmental groups; independence movement; various business
groups
note: debate on Taiwan independence has become acceptable within the
mainstream of domestic politics on Taiwan; political liberalization
and the increased representation of opposition parties in Taiwan's
legislature have opened public debate on the island's national
identity; a broad popular consensus has developed that the island
currently enjoys sovereign independence and - whatever the ultimate
outcome regarding reunification or independence - that Taiwan's
people must have the deciding voice; public opinion polls
consistently show a substantial majority of Taiwan people supports
maintaining Taiwan's status quo for the foreseeable future;
advocates of Taiwan independence oppose the stand that the island
will eventually unify with mainland China; goals of the Taiwan
independence movement include establishing a sovereign nation on
Taiwan and entering the UN


International organization participation:

ADB, APEC, BCIE, ICC, IOC, ITUC, WCL, WFTU, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none; unofficial commercial and cultural relations with the people
of the US are maintained through an unofficial instrumentality, the
Taipei Economic and Cultural Representative Office (TECRO), which
has its headquarters in Taipei and in the US in Washington, DC;
there are also branch offices called Taipei Economic and Cultural
Office (TECO) in 12 other US cities


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none; unofficial commercial and cultural relations with the people
on Taiwan are maintained through an unofficial instrumentality - the
American Institute in Taiwan (AIT) - which has offices in the US and
Taiwan; US office at 1700 N. Moore St., Suite 1700, Arlington, VA
22209-1996, telephone: [1] (703) 525-8474, FAX: [1] (703) 841-1385);
Taiwan offices at #7 Lane 134, Hsin Yi Road, Section 3, Taipei,
Taiwan, telephone: [886] (2) 2162-2000, FAX: [886] (2) 2162-2251; #2
Chung Cheng 3rd Road, 5th Floor, Kaohsiung, Taiwan, telephone: [886]
(7) 238-7744, FAX: [886] (7) 238-5237; and the American Trade
Center, Room 3208 International Trade Building, Taipei World Trade
Center, 333 Keelung Road Section 1, Taipei, Taiwan 10548, telephone:
[886] (2) 2720-1550, FAX: [886] (2) 2757-7162


Flag description:

red field with a dark blue rectangle in the upper hoist-side corner
bearing a white sun with 12 triangular rays


Economy
Taiwan



Economy - overview:

Taiwan has a dynamic capitalist economy with gradually decreasing
guidance of investment and foreign trade by the authorities. In
keeping with this trend, some large, state-owned banks and
industrial firms are being privatized. Exports have provided the
primary impetus for industrialization. The island runs a large trade
surplus, and its foreign reserves are among the world's largest.
Despite restrictions on cross-strait links, China has overtaken the
US to become Taiwan's largest export market and its second-largest
source of imports after Japan. China is also the island's number one
destination for foreign direct investment. Strong trade performance
in 2007 pushed Taiwan's GDP growth rate above 5%, and unemployment
is below 4%.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$698.6 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$383.3 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

5.7% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$30,100 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 1.4%
industry: 27.5%
services: 71.1% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

10.71 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 5.3%
industry: 36.8%
services: 57.9% (2007 est.)


Unemployment rate:

3.9% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

0.95% (2007 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 6.7%
highest 10%: 41.1% (2002 est.)


Investment (gross fixed):

21.2% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $76.2 billion
expenditures: $75.65 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

27.9% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

1.8% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

NA


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

NA


Stock of money:

NA


Stock of quasi money:

NA


Stock of domestic credit:

NA


Agriculture - products:

rice, corn, vegetables, fruit, tea; pigs, poultry, beef, milk; fish


Industries:

electronics, petroleum refining, armaments, chemicals, textiles,
iron and steel, machinery, cement, food processing, vehicles,
consumer products, pharmaceuticals


Industrial production growth rate:

9.2% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

216.6 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

208.7 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 71.4%
hydro: 6%
nuclear: 22.6%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

10,600 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

950,500 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

289,200 bbl/day (2006)


Oil - imports:

1.208 million bbl/day (2006)


Oil - proved reserves:

2.38 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

400 million cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

11.3 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

10.9 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

6.229 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$32.88 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$246.5 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

electronic and electrical products, metals, textiles, plastics,
chemicals, auto parts (2002)


Exports - partners:

China 32.6%, US 12.9%, Hong Kong 8.6%, Japan 6.4%, Singapore 5%
(2007)


Imports:

$215.1 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

electronic and electrical products, machinery, petroleum, precision
instruments, organic chemicals, metals (2002)


Imports - partners:

Japan 22.7%, US 13.3%, China 11.2%, South Korea 6.6%, Saudi Arabia
4.8%, Singapore 4.6% (2007)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$275 billion (31 December 2007)


Debt - external:

$97.85 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$92.83 billion (2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$108.9 billion (2007)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$654 billion (28 December 2007)


Currency (code):

New Taiwan dollar (TWD)


Currency code:

TWD


Exchange rates:

New Taiwan dollars (TWD) per US dollar - 32.84 (2007), 32.534
(2006), 31.71 (2005), 34.418 (2004), 34.575 (2003)


Communications
Taiwan



Telephones - main lines in use:

14.313 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

24.302 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: provides telecommunications service for every
business and private need
domestic: thoroughly modern; completely digitalized
international: country code - 886; numerous submarine cables provide
links throughout Asia, Australia, the Middle East, Europe, and the
US; satellite earth stations - 2


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 140, FM 229, shortwave 49


Radios:

16 million (1994)


Television broadcast stations:

76 (46 digital and 30 analog) (2007)


Televisions:

8.8 million (1998)


Internet country code:

.tw


Internet hosts:

5.225 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

8 (2000)


Internet users:

14.76 million (2007)


Transportation
Taiwan



Airports:

41 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 38
over 3,047 m: 8
2,438 to 3,047 m: 9
1,524 to 2,437 m: 11
914 to 1,523 m: 7
under 914 m: 3 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 3
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
under 914 m: 2 (2007)


Heliports:

4 (2007)


Pipelines:

condensate 25 km; gas 661 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 1,588 km
standard gauge: 345 km 1.435-m gauge
narrow gauge: 1,093 km 1.067-m gauge
note: 150 km .762-m gauge (belonging primarily to Taiwan Sugar
Corporation and Taiwan Forestry Bureau; some to other entities)
(2007)


Roadways:

total: 40,262 km
paved: 38,171 km (includes 976 km of expressways)
unpaved: 2,091 km (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 102
by type: bulk carrier 32, cargo 19, chemical tanker 1, container 24,
passenger/cargo 3, petroleum tanker 14, refrigerated cargo 7, roll
on/roll off 2
foreign-owned: 3 (Canada 2, France 1)
registered in other countries: 536 (Bolivia 1, Cambodia 1, Honduras
2, Hong Kong 11, Indonesia 2, Italy 13, Kiribati 5, Liberia 91,
Marshall Islands 1, Panama 320, Philippines 1, Sierra Leone 1,
Singapore 72, Thailand 1, UK 11, unknown 3) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Chilung (Keelung), Kaohsiung, Taichung


Military
Taiwan



Military branches:

Army, Navy (includes Marine Corps), Air Force, Coast Guard
Administration, Armed Forces Reserve Command, Combined Service
Forces Command, Armed Forces Police Command


Military service age and obligation:

19-35 years of age for male compulsory military service; service
obligation 14 months (reducing to 1 year in 2009) year; women may
enlist; women in Air Force service are restricted to noncombat
roles; reserve obligation to age 30 (Army); the Ministry of Defense
has announced plans to implement an incremental voluntary enlistment
system beginning 2010, with 10% fewer conscripts each year
thereafter, although nonvolunteers will still be required to perform
alternative service or go through 3-4 months of military training
(2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 6,283,134
females age 16-49: 6,098,599 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 5,112,737
females age 16-49: 5,036,346 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 164,883
female: 152,085 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

2.2% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Taiwan



Disputes - international:

involved in complex dispute with China, Malaysia, Philippines,
Vietnam, and possibly Brunei over the Spratly Islands; the 2002
"Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea" has
eased tensions but falls short of a legally binding "code of
conduct" desired by several of the disputants; Paracel Islands are
occupied by China, but claimed by Taiwan and Vietnam; in 2003, China
and Taiwan became more vocal in rejecting both Japan's claims to the
uninhabited islands of the Senkaku-shoto (Diaoyu Tai) and Japan's
unilaterally declared exclusive economic zone in the East China Sea
where all parties engage in hydrocarbon prospecting


Illicit drugs:

regional transit point for heroin, methamphetamine, and precursor
chemicals; transshipment point for drugs to Japan; major problem
with domestic consumption of methamphetamine and heroin; rising
problems with use of ketamine and club drugs



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Tajikistan

Introduction
Tajikistan



Background:

The Tajik people came under Russian rule in the 1860s and 1870s, but
Russia's hold on Central Asia weakened following the Revolution of
1917. Bolshevik control of the area was fiercely contested and not
fully reestablished until 1925. Much of present-day Sughd province
was transferred from the Uzbekistan SSR to newly formed Tajikistan
SSR in 1929. Ethnic Uzbeks form a substantial minority in Sughd
province. Tajikistan became independent in 1991 following the
breakup of the Soviet Union, and it is now in the process of
strengthening its democracy and transitioning to a free market
economy after its 1992-97 civil war. There have been no major
security incidents in recent years, although the country remains the
poorest in the former Soviet sphere. Attention by the international
community in the wake of the war in Afghanistan has brought
increased economic development and security assistance, which could
create jobs and increase stability in the long term. Tajikistan is
in the early stages of seeking World Trade Organization membership
and has joined NATO's Partnership for Peace.


Geography
Tajikistan



Location:

Central Asia, west of China


Geographic coordinates:

39 00 N, 71 00 E


Map references:

Asia


Area:

total: 143,100 sq km
land: 142,700 sq km
water: 400 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Wisconsin


Land boundaries:

total: 3,651 km
border countries: Afghanistan 1,206 km, China 414 km, Kyrgyzstan 870
km, Uzbekistan 1,161 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

midlatitude continental, hot summers, mild winters; semiarid to
polar in Pamir Mountains


Terrain:

Pamir and Alay Mountains dominate landscape; western Fergana Valley
in north, Kofarnihon and Vakhsh Valleys in southwest


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Syr Darya (Sirdaryo) 300 m
highest point: Qullai Ismoili Somoni 7,495 m


Natural resources:

hydropower, some petroleum, uranium, mercury, brown coal, lead,
zinc, antimony, tungsten, silver, gold


Land use:

arable land: 6.52%
permanent crops: 0.89%
other: 92.59% (2005)


Irrigated land:

7,220 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

99.7 cu km (1997)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 11.96 cu km/yr (4%/5%/92%)
per capita: 1,837 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

earthquakes and floods


Environment - current issues:

inadequate sanitation facilities; increasing levels of soil
salinity; industrial pollution; excessive pesticides


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
Environmental Modification, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

landlocked; mountainous region dominated by the Trans-Alay Range in
the north and the Pamirs in the southeast; highest point, Qullai
Ismoili Somoni (formerly Communism Peak), was the tallest mountain
in the former USSR


People
Tajikistan



Population:

7,211,884 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 34.6% (male 1,270,289/female 1,226,954)
15-64 years: 61.7% (male 2,203,720/female 2,244,660)
65 years and over: 3.7% (male 113,156/female 153,105) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 21.6 years
male: 21.2 years
female: 22.1 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.893% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

27.18 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

6.94 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-1.31 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.74 male(s)/female
total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 42.31 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 47.3 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 37.08 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 64.97 years
male: 61.95 years
female: 68.15 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

3.04 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

less than 0.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

fewer than 200 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 100 (2001 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever
vectorborne disease: malaria (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Tajikistani(s)
adjective: Tajikistani


Ethnic groups:

Tajik 79.9%, Uzbek 15.3%, Russian 1.1%, Kyrgyz 1.1%, other 2.6%
(2000 census)


Religions:

Sunni Muslim 85%, Shia Muslim 5%, other 10% (2003 est.)


Languages:

Tajik (official), Russian widely used in government and business


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99.5%
male: 99.7%
female: 99.2% (2000 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 11 years
male: 12 years
female: 10 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

3.4% of GDP (2006)


Government
Tajikistan



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Tajikistan
conventional short form: Tajikistan
local long form: Jumhurii Tojikiston
local short form: Tojikiston
former: Tajik Soviet Socialist Republic


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Dushanbe
geographic coordinates: 38 35 N, 68 48 E
time difference: UTC+5 (10 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

2 provinces (viloyatho, singular - viloyat) and 1 autonomous
province* (viloyati mukhtor); Viloyati Khatlon (Qurghonteppa),
Viloyati Mukhtori Kuhistoni Badakhshon* [Gorno-Badakhshan]
(Khorugh), Viloyati Sughd (Khujand)
note: the administrative center name follows in parentheses


Independence:

9 September 1991 (from Soviet Union)


National holiday:

Independence Day (or National Day), 9 September (1991)


Constitution:

6 November 1994


Legal system:

based on civil law system; no judicial review of legislative acts;
has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Emomali RAHMON (since 6 November 1994;
head of state and Supreme Assembly chairman since 19 November 1992)
head of government: Prime Minister Oqil OQILOV (since 20 January
1999)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president, approved
by the Supreme Assembly
elections: president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 6 November 2006
(next to be held in November 2013); prime minister appointed by the
president
election results: Emomali RAHMON reelected president; percent of
vote - Emomali RAHMON 79.3%, Olimzon BOBOYEV 6.2%, other 14.5%


Legislative branch:

bicameral Supreme Assembly or Majlisi Oli consists of the National
Assembly (upper chamber) or Majlisi Milliy (34 seats; 25 members
selected by local deputies, 8 appointed by the president; 1 seat
reserved for the former president; to serve five-year terms) and the
Assembly of Representatives (lower chamber) or Majlisi Namoyandagon
(63 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year
terms)
elections: National Assembly - last held 25 March 2005 (next to be
held in February 2010); Assembly of Representatives 27 February and
13 March 2005 (next to be held in February 2010)
election results: National Assembly - percent of vote by party - NA;
seats by party - PDPT 29, CPT 2, independents 3; Assembly of
Representatives - percent of vote by party - PDPT 74.9%, CPT 13.6%,
Islamic Revival Party 8.9%, other 2.5%; seats by party - PDPT 51,
CPT 5, Islamic Revival Party 2, independents 5


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the president)


Political parties and leaders:

Agrarian Party of Tajikistan or APT [Amir KARAKULOV]; Democratic
Party or DPT [Mahmadruzi ISKANDAROV (imprisoned October 2005);
Rahmatullo VALIYEV, deputy]; Islamic Revival Party [Muhiddin
KABIRI]; Party of Economic Reform or PER [Olimzon BOBOYEV]; People's
Democratic Party of Tajikistan or PDPT [Emomali RAHMON]; Social
Democratic Party or SDPT [Rahmatullo ZOYIROV]; Socialist Party or
SPT [Mirhuseyn NARZIYEV]; Tajik Communist Party or CPT [Shodi
SHABDOLOV]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Agrarian Party [Hikmatullo NASREDDINOV] (unregistered political
party); Democratic Party or DPT [Masud SOBIROV] (splintered from
Iskanderov's DPT); Progressive Party [Sulton QUVVATOV]; Socialist
Party or SPT [Abdualim GHAFFOROV] (splintered from Narziyev's SPT);
Unity Party [Hikmatullo SAIDOV]
other: splinter parties recognized by the government but not by the
base of the party; unregistered political parties


International organization participation:

ADB, CIS, CSTO, EAEC, EAPC, EBRD, ECO, FAO, GCTU, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC,
IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, MIGA, OIC, OPCW, OSCE,
PFP, SCO, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO,
WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Abdujabbor SHIRINOV
chancery: 1005 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20037
telephone: [1] (202) 223-6090
FAX: [1] (202) 223-6091


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Tracey Ann JACOBSON
embassy: 109-A Ismoili Somoni Avenue, Dushanbe 734019
mailing address: 7090 Dushanbe Place, Dulles, VA 20189
telephone: [992] (37) 229-20-00
FAX: [992] (37) 229-20-50


Flag description:

three horizontal stripes of red (top), a wider stripe of white, and
green; a gold crown surmounted by seven gold, five-pointed stars is
located in the center of the white stripe


Economy
Tajikistan



Economy - overview:

Tajikistan has one of the lowest per capita GDPs among the 15 former
Soviet republics. Only 7% of the land area is arable. Cotton is the
most important crop, but this sector is burdened with debt and an
obsolete infrastructure. Mineral resources include silver, gold,
uranium, and tungsten. Industry consists only of a large aluminum
plant, hydropower facilities, and small obsolete factories mostly in
light industry and food processing. The civil war (1992-97) severely
damaged the already weak economic infrastructure and caused a sharp
decline in industrial and agricultural production. While Tajikistan
has experienced steady economic growth since 1997, nearly two-thirds
of the population continues to live in abject poverty. Economic
growth reached 10.6% in 2004, but dropped to 8% in 2005, 7% in 2006,
and 7.8% in 2007. Tajikistan's economic situation remains fragile
due to uneven implementation of structural reforms, corruption, weak
governance, widespread unemployment, seasonal power shortages, and
the external debt burden. Continued privatization of medium and
large state-owned enterprises could increase productivity. A debt
restructuring agreement was reached with Russia in December 2002
including a $250 million write-off of Tajikistan's $300 million
debt. Tajikistan ranks third in the world in terms of water
resources per head, but suffers winter power shortages due to poor
management of water levels in rivers and reservoirs. Completion of
the Sangtuda I hydropower dam - built with Russian investment - and
the Sangtuda II and Rogun dams will add substantially to electricity
output. If finished according to Tajik plans, Rogun will be the
world's tallest dam. Tajikistan has also received substantial
infrastructure development loans from the Chinese government to
improve roads and an electricity transmission network. To help
increase north-south trade, the US funded a $36 million bridge which
opened in August 2007 and links Tajikistan and Afghanistan.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$11.96 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$3.712 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

7.8% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$1,600 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 23.8%
industry: 30.4%
services: 45.8% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

2.1 million (2007)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 67.2%
industry: 7.5%
services: 25.3% (2000 est.)


Unemployment rate:

2.4% official rate; actual unemployment is higher (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

60% (2007 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 3.3%
highest 10%: 25.6% (2007 est.)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

32.6 (2003)


Investment (gross fixed):

12.4% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $712.1 million
expenditures: $674.5 million (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

13.1% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

15% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

22.87% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$91.59 million (31 December 2006)


Stock of quasi money:

$161 million (31 December 2006)


Stock of domestic credit:

$417.4 million (31 December 2006)


Agriculture - products:

cotton, grain, fruits, grapes, vegetables; cattle, sheep, goats


Industries:

aluminum, zinc, lead; chemicals and fertilizers, cement, vegetable
oil, metal-cutting machine tools, refrigerators and freezers


Industrial production growth rate:

5% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

17.4 billion kWh (2007)


Electricity - consumption:

17.9 billion kWh (2007)


Electricity - exports:

4.259 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

4.36 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 1.9%
hydro: 98.1%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

281.1 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

31,590 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

247.7 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

7,600 bbl/day (2007)


Oil - proved reserves:

12 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

32 million cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

842 million cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

810 million cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

5.663 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$351 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$1.606 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

aluminum, electricity, cotton, fruits, vegetable oil, textiles


Exports - partners:

Netherlands 38.9%, Turkey 32.5%, Russia 6.6%, Uzbekistan 5.9%, Iran
5.1% (2007)


Imports:

$2.762 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

electricity, petroleum products, aluminum oxide, machinery and
equipment, foodstuffs


Imports - partners:

Russia 32.1%, Kazakhstan 13.1%, China 10.8%, Uzbekistan 8.4% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$241.4 million from US (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$242 million (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$1.56 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

somoni (TJS)


Currency code:

TJS


Exchange rates:

Tajikistani somoni (TJS) per US dollar - 3.4418 (2007), 3.3 (2006),
3.1166 (2005), 2.9705 (2004), 3.0614 (2003)


Communications
Tajikistan



Telephones - main lines in use:

280,200 (2005)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

265,000 (2005)


Telephone system:

general assessment: poorly developed and not well maintained; many
towns are not linked to the national network
domestic: the domestic telecommunications network has historically
been under funded and poorly maintained; main line availability has
not changed significantly since 1998; cellular telephone use is
growing but geographic coverage remains limited
international: country code - 992; linked by cable and microwave
radio relay to other CIS republics and by leased connections to the
Moscow international gateway switch; Dushanbe linked by Intelsat to
international gateway switch in Ankara (Turkey); satellite earth
stations - 3 (2 Intelsat and 1 Orbita) (2006)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 8, FM 10, shortwave 2 (2002)


Radios:

1.291 million (1991)


Television broadcast stations:

6 (2006)


Televisions:

820,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.tj


Internet hosts:

1,158 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

4 (2002)


Internet users:

19,500 (2005)


Transportation
Tajikistan



Airports:

26 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 18
over 3,047 m: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 4
1,524 to 2,437 m: 6
914 to 1,523 m: 3
under 914 m: 3 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 8
under 914 m: 8 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 549 km; oil 38 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 482 km
broad gauge: 482 km 1.520-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 27,767 km (2000)


Waterways:

200 km (along Vakhsh River) (2006)


Military
Tajikistan



Military branches:

Ground Forces, Air and Air Defense Forces, Mobile Force (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for compulsory military service; 2-year conscript
service obligation (2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,897,356
females age 16-49: 1,911,594 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,391,287
females age 16-49: 1,561,826 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 84,137
female: 81,777 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

3.9% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Tajikistan



Disputes - international:

in 2006, China and Tajikistan pledged to commence demarcation of the
revised boundary agreed to in the delimitation of 2002; talks
continue with Uzbekistan to delimit border and remove minefields;
disputes in Isfara Valley delay delimitation with Kyrgyzstan


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Tajikistan is a source country for women
trafficked through Kyrgyzstan and Russia to the UAE, Turkey, and
Russia for the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation; men are
trafficked to Russia and Kazakhstan for the purpose of forced labor,
primarily in the construction and agricultural industries; boys and
girls are trafficked internally for various purposes, including
forced labor and forced begging
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Tajikistan is on the Tier 2 Watch
List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to
combat human trafficking, especially efforts to investigate,
prosecute, convict, and sentence traffickers; despite evidence of
low- and mid-level officials' complicity in trafficking, the
government did not punish any public officials for trafficking
complicity during 2007; lack of capacity and poor coordination
between government institutions remained key obstacles to effective
anti-trafficking efforts (2008)


Illicit drugs:

major transit country for Afghan narcotics bound for Russian and, to
a lesser extent, Western European markets; limited illicit
cultivation of opium poppy for domestic consumption; Tajikistan
seizes roughly 80% of all drugs captured in Central Asia and stands
third worldwide in seizures of opiates (heroin and raw opium);
significant consumer of opiates



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Tanzania

Introduction
Tanzania



Background:

Shortly after achieving independence from Britain in the early
1960s, Tanganyika and Zanzibar merged to form the nation of Tanzania
in 1964. One-party rule came to an end in 1995 with the first
democratic elections held in the country since the 1970s. Zanzibar's
semi-autonomous status and popular opposition have led to two
contentious elections since 1995, which the ruling party won despite
international observers' claims of voting irregularities.


Geography
Tanzania



Location:

Eastern Africa, bordering the Indian Ocean, between Kenya and
Mozambique


Geographic coordinates:

6 00 S, 35 00 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 945,087 sq km
land: 886,037 sq km
water: 59,050 sq km
note: includes the islands of Mafia, Pemba, and Zanzibar


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than twice the size of California


Land boundaries:

total: 3,861 km
border countries: Burundi 451 km, Democratic Republic of the Congo
459 km, Kenya 769 km, Malawi 475 km, Mozambique 756 km, Rwanda 217
km, Uganda 396 km, Zambia 338 km


Coastline:

1,424 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

varies from tropical along coast to temperate in highlands


Terrain:

plains along coast; central plateau; highlands in north, south


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
highest point: Kilimanjaro 5,895 m


Natural resources:

hydropower, tin, phosphates, iron ore, coal, diamonds, gemstones,
gold, natural gas, nickel


Land use:

arable land: 4.23%
permanent crops: 1.16%
other: 94.61% (2005)


Irrigated land:

1,840 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

91 cu km (2001)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 5.18 cu km/yr (10%/0%/89%)
per capita: 135 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

flooding on the central plateau during the rainy season; drought


Environment - current issues:

soil degradation; deforestation; desertification; destruction of
coral reefs threatens marine habitats; recent droughts affected
marginal agriculture; wildlife threatened by illegal hunting and
trade, especially for ivory


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

Kilimanjaro is highest point in Africa; bordered by three of the
largest lakes on the continent: Lake Victoria (the world's
second-largest freshwater lake) in the north, Lake Tanganyika (the
world's second deepest) in the west, and Lake Nyasa in the southwest


People
Tanzania



Population:

40,213,160
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 43.5% (male 8,763,471/female 8,719,198)
15-64 years: 53.7% (male 10,638,666/female 10,947,190)
65 years and over: 2.8% (male 502,368/female 642,269) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 17.8 years
male: 17.6 years
female: 18.1 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.072% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

35.12 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

12.92 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-1.48 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.97 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.78 male(s)/female
total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 70.46 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 77.51 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 63.19 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 51.45 years
male: 50.06 years
female: 52.88 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

4.62 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

8.8% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

1.6 million (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

160,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: malaria and plague
water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Tanzanian(s)
adjective: Tanzanian


Ethnic groups:

mainland - African 99% (of which 95% are Bantu consisting of more
than 130 tribes), other 1% (consisting of Asian, European, and
Arab); Zanzibar - Arab, African, mixed Arab and African


Religions:

mainland - Christian 30%, Muslim 35%, indigenous beliefs 35%;
Zanzibar - more than 99% Muslim


Languages:

Kiswahili or Swahili (official), Kiunguja (name for Swahili in
Zanzibar), English (official, primary language of commerce,
administration, and higher education), Arabic (widely spoken in
Zanzibar), many local languages
note: Kiswahili (Swahili) is the mother tongue of the Bantu people
living in Zanzibar and nearby coastal Tanzania; although Kiswahili
is Bantu in structure and origin, its vocabulary draws on a variety
of sources including Arabic and English; it has become the lingua
franca of central and eastern Africa; the first language of most
people is one of the local languages


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write Kiswahili (Swahili),
English, or Arabic
total population: 69.4%
male: 77.5%
female: 62.2% (2002 census)


Education expenditures:

2.2% of GDP (1999)


Government
Tanzania



Country name:

conventional long form: United Republic of Tanzania
conventional short form: Tanzania
local long form: Jamhuri ya Muungano wa Tanzania
local short form: Tanzania
former: United Republic of Tanganyika and Zanzibar


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Dar es Salaam
geographic coordinates: 6 48 S, 39 17 E
time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
note: legislative offices have been transferred to Dodoma, which is
planned as the new national capital; the National Assembly now meets
there on a regular basis


Administrative divisions:

26 regions; Arusha, Dar es Salaam, Dodoma, Iringa, Kagera, Kigoma,
Kilimanjaro, Lindi, Manyara, Mara, Mbeya, Morogoro, Mtwara, Mwanza,
Pemba North, Pemba South, Pwani, Rukwa, Ruvuma, Shinyanga, Singida,
Tabora, Tanga, Zanzibar Central/South, Zanzibar North, Zanzibar
Urban/West


Independence:

26 April 1964; Tanganyika became independent 9 December 1961 (from
UK-administered UN trusteeship); Zanzibar became independent 19
December 1963 (from UK); Tanganyika united with Zanzibar 26 April
1964 to form the United Republic of Tanganyika and Zanzibar; renamed
United Republic of Tanzania 29 October 1964


National holiday:

Union Day (Tanganyika and Zanzibar), 26 April (1964)


Constitution:

25 April 1977; major revisions October 1984


Legal system:

based on English common law; judicial review of legislative acts
limited to matters of interpretation; has not accepted compulsory
ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Jakaya KIKWETE (since 21 December 2005);
Vice President Dr. Ali Mohammed SHEIN (since 5 July 2001); note -
the president is both chief of state and head of government
head of government: President Jakaya KIKWETE (since 21 December
2005); Vice President Dr. Ali Mohammed SHEIN (since 5 July 2001)
note: Zanzibar elects a president who is head of government for
matters internal to Zanzibar; Amani Abeid KARUME was reelected to
that office on 30 October 2005
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president from among the members
of the National Assembly
elections: president and vice president elected on the same ballot
by popular vote for five-year terms (eligible for a second term);
election last held 14 December 2005 (next to be held in December
2010); prime minister appointed by the president
election results: Jakaya KIKWETE elected president; percent of vote
- Jakaya KIKWETE 80.3%, Ibrahim LIPUMBA 11.7%, Freeman MBOWE 5.9%


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly or Bunge (274 seats; 232 members
elected by popular vote, 37 allocated to women nominated by the
president, 5 to members of the Zanzibar House of Representatives; to
serve five-year terms); note - in addition to enacting laws that
apply to the entire United Republic of Tanzania, the Assembly enacts
laws that apply only to the mainland; Zanzibar has its own House of
Representatives to make laws especially for Zanzibar (the Zanzibar
House of Representatives has 50 seats elected by universal suffrage
to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held 14 December 2005 (next to be held in December
2010)
election results: National Assembly - percent of vote by party - NA;
seats by party - CCM 206, CUF 19, CHADEMA 5, other 2, women
appointed by the president 37, Zanzibar representatives 5 Zanzibar
House of Representatives - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - CCM 30, CUF 19; 1 seat was nullified with a rerun to take
place soon


Judicial branch:

Permanent Commission of Enquiry (official ombudsman); Court of
Appeal (consists of a chief justice and four judges); High Court
(consists of a Jaji Kiongozi and 29 judges appointed by the
president; holds regular sessions in all regions); District Courts;
Primary Courts (limited jurisdiction and appeals can be made to the
higher courts)


Political parties and leaders:

Chama Cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo (Party of Democracy and
Development) or CHADEMA [Bob MAKANI]; Chama Cha Mapinduzi or CCM
(Revolutionary Party) [Jakaya Mrisho KIKWETE]; Civic United Front or
CUF [Ibrahim LIPUMBA]; Democratic Party [Christopher MTIKLA]
(unregistered); Tanzania Labor Party or TLP [Augustine Lyatonga
MREME]; United Democratic Party or UDP [John CHEYO]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Economic and Social Research Foundation or ESRF; Free Zanzibar;
Tanzania Media Women's Association or TAMWA


International organization participation:

ACP, AfDB, AU, C, EAC, EADB, FAO, G-6, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol,
IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OPCW, SADC, UN,
UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNMIS, UNOCI, UNWTO,
UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Ombeni Yohana SEFUE
chancery: 2139 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 939-6125
FAX: [1] (202) 797-7408


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Mark GREEN
embassy: 686 Old Bagamoyo Road, Msasani, Dar es Salaam
mailing address: P. O. Box 9123, Dar es Salaam
telephone: [255] (22) 266-8001
FAX: [255] (22) 266-8238, 266-8373


Flag description:

divided diagonally by a yellow-edged black band from the lower
hoist-side corner; the upper triangle (hoist side) is green and the
lower triangle is blue


Economy
Tanzania



Economy - overview:

Tanzania is one of the poorest countries in the world. The economy
depends heavily on agriculture, which accounts for more than 40% of
GDP, provides 85% of exports, and employs 80% of the work force.
Topography and climatic conditions, however, limit cultivated crops
to only 4% of the land area. Industry traditionally featured the
processing of agricultural products and light consumer goods. The
World Bank, the IMF, and bilateral donors have provided funds to
rehabilitate Tanzania's out-of-date economic infrastructure and to
alleviate poverty. Long-term growth through 2005 featured a pickup
in industrial production and a substantial increase in output of
minerals led by gold. Recent banking reforms have helped increase
private-sector growth and investment. Continued donor assistance and
solid macroeconomic policies supported real GDP growth of nearly 7%
in 2007.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$51.07 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$16.18 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

7.3% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$1,300 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 42.5%
industry: 18.9%
services: 38.5% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

20.04 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 80%
industry and services: 20% (2002 est.)


Unemployment rate:

NA%


Population below poverty line:

36% (2002 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.9%
highest 10%: 26.9% (2000)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

34.6 (2000)


Investment (gross fixed):

23.2% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $3.561 billion
expenditures: $3.594 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 July - 30 June


Public debt:

19.6% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

7% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

16.4% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

16.03% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$2.263 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$2.885 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$2.25 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

coffee, sisal, tea, cotton, pyrethrum (insecticide made from
chrysanthemums), cashew nuts, tobacco, cloves, corn, wheat, cassava
(tapioca), bananas, fruits, vegetables; cattle, sheep, goats


Industries:

agricultural processing (sugar, beer, cigarettes, sisal twine);
diamond, gold, and iron mining, salt, soda ash; cement, oil
refining, shoes, apparel, wood products, fertilizer


Industrial production growth rate:

9.5% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

2.682 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

2.225 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

123 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 18.9%
hydro: 81.1%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

27,270 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

26,760 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

146 million cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

146 million cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

6.513 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$1.856 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$2.227 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

gold, coffee, cashew nuts, manufactures, cotton


Exports - partners:

China 10.3%, India 9.7%, Netherlands 6.5%, Germany 6.3%, UAE 4.9%
(2007)


Imports:

$4.861 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

consumer goods, machinery and transportation equipment, industrial
raw materials, crude oil


Imports - partners:

China 12%, Kenya 8%, South Africa 7.7%, India 6.9%, UAE 5.9% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$1.505 billion (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$2.91 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$4.382 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$NA


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$587.9 million (2005)


Currency (code):

Tanzanian shilling (TZS)


Currency code:

TZS


Exchange rates:

Tanzanian shillings (TZS) per US dollar - 1,255 (2007), 1,251.9
(2006), 1,128.93 (2005), 1,089.33 (2004), 1,038.42 (2003)


Communications
Tanzania



Telephones - main lines in use:

165,013 (2008)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

9.358 million (2008)


Telephone system:

general assessment: telecommunications services are inadequate;
system operating below capacity and being modernized for better
service; small aperture terminal (VSAT) system under construction
domestic: fixed-line telephone network inadequate with less than 1
connection per 100 persons; mobile-cellular service, aided by
multiple providers, is increasing; trunk service provided by
open-wire, microwave radio relay, tropospheric scatter, and
fiber-optic cable; some links being made digital
international: country code - 255; satellite earth stations - 2
Intelsat (1 Indian Ocean, 1 Atlantic Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 12, FM 11, shortwave 2 (1998)


Radios:

8.8 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

3 (1999)


Televisions:

103,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.tz


Internet hosts:

24,271 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

6 (2000)


Internet users:

400,000 (2007)


Transportation
Tanzania



Airports:

124 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 10
over 3,047 m: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 114
1,524 to 2,437 m: 17
914 to 1,523 m: 63
under 914 m: 34 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 287 km; oil 891 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 3,690 km
narrow gauge: 969 km 1.067-m gauge; 2,721 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 78,891 km
paved: 6,808 km
unpaved: 72,083 km (2003)


Waterways:

Lake Tanganyika, Lake Victoria, and Lake Nyasa principal avenues of
commerce with neighboring countries; rivers not navigable (2005)


Merchant marine:

total: 9
by type: cargo 1, passenger/cargo 4, petroleum tanker 4
registered in other countries: 1 (Honduras 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Dar es Salaam


Transportation - note:

the International Maritime Bureau reports the territorial and
offshore waters in the Indian Ocean are high risk for piracy and
armed robbery against ships; numerous commercial vessels have been
attacked and hijacked both at anchor and while underway; crews have
been robbed and stores or cargoes stolen


Military
Tanzania



Military branches:

Tanzanian People's Defense Force (Jeshi la Wananchi la Tanzania,
JWTZ): Army, Naval Wing (includes Coast Guard), Air Defense Command
(includes Air Wing), National Service (2007)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service (2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 9,108,177 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 5,278,833 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 478,812
female: 479,557 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0.2% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Tanzania



Disputes - international:

Tanzania still hosts more than a half-million refugees, more than
any other African country, mainly from Burundi and the Democratic
Republic of the Congo, despite the international community's efforts
at repatriation; disputes with Malawi over the boundary in Lake
Nyasa (Lake Malawi) and the meandering Songwe River remain dormant


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 352,640 (Burundi); 127,973 (Democratic
Republic of the Congo) (2007)


Illicit drugs:

growing role in transshipment of Southwest and Southeast Asian
heroin and South American cocaine destined for South African,
European, and US markets and of South Asian methaqualone bound for
southern Africa; money laundering remains a problem



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Thailand

Introduction
Thailand



Background:

A unified Thai kingdom was established in the mid-14th century.
Known as Siam until 1939, Thailand is the only Southeast Asian
country never to have been taken over by a European power. A
bloodless revolution in 1932 led to a constitutional monarchy. In
alliance with Japan during World War II, Thailand became a US ally
following the conflict. Thailand is currently facing separatist
violence in its southern ethnic Malay-Muslim provinces.


Geography
Thailand



Location:

Southeastern Asia, bordering the Andaman Sea and the Gulf of
Thailand, southeast of Burma


Geographic coordinates:

15 00 N, 100 00 E


Map references:

Southeast Asia


Area:

total: 514,000 sq km
land: 511,770 sq km
water: 2,230 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly more than twice the size of Wyoming


Land boundaries:

total: 4,863 km
border countries: Burma 1,800 km, Cambodia 803 km, Laos 1,754 km,
Malaysia 506 km


Coastline:

3,219 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation


Climate:

tropical; rainy, warm, cloudy southwest monsoon (mid-May to
September); dry, cool northeast monsoon (November to mid-March);
southern isthmus always hot and humid


Terrain:

central plain; Khorat Plateau in the east; mountains elsewhere


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Gulf of Thailand 0 m
highest point: Doi Inthanon 2,576 m


Natural resources:

tin, rubber, natural gas, tungsten, tantalum, timber, lead, fish,
gypsum, lignite, fluorite, arable land


Land use:

arable land: 27.54%
permanent crops: 6.93%
other: 65.53% (2005)


Irrigated land:

49,860 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

409.9 cu km (1999)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 82.75 cu km/yr (2%/2%/95%)
per capita: 1,288 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

land subsidence in Bangkok area resulting from the depletion of the
water table; droughts


Environment - current issues:

air pollution from vehicle emissions; water pollution from organic
and factory wastes; deforestation; soil erosion; wildlife
populations threatened by illegal hunting


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Tropical Timber
83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea


Geography - note:

controls only land route from Asia to Malaysia and Singapore


People
Thailand



Population:

65,493,296
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 21.2% (male 7,104,776/female 6,781,453)
15-64 years: 70.3% (male 22,763,274/female 23,304,793)
65 years and over: 8.5% (male 2,516,721/female 3,022,281) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 32.8 years
male: 32 years
female: 33.7 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.64% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

13.57 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

7.17 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.83 male(s)/female
total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 18.23 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 19.5 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 16.89 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 72.83 years
male: 70.51 years
female: 75.27 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.64 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

1.5% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

570,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

58,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A
vectorborne diseases: dengue fever, Japanese encephalitis, and
malaria
animal contact disease: rabies
water contact disease: leptospirosis
note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Thai (singular and plural)
adjective: Thai


Ethnic groups:

Thai 75%, Chinese 14%, other 11%


Religions:

Buddhist 94.6%, Muslim 4.6%, Christian 0.7%, other 0.1% (2000 census)


Languages:

Thai, English (secondary language of the elite), ethnic and regional
dialects


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 92.6%
male: 94.9%
female: 90.5% (2000 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 14 years
male: 13 years
female: 14 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

4.2% of GDP (2005)


Government
Thailand



Country name:

conventional long form: Kingdom of Thailand
conventional short form: Thailand
local long form: Ratcha Anachak Thai
local short form: Prathet Thai
former: Siam


Government type:

constitutional monarchy


Capital:

name: Bangkok
geographic coordinates: 13 45 N, 100 31 E
time difference: UTC+7 (12 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

76 provinces (changwat, singular and plural); Amnat Charoen, Ang
Thong, Buriram, Chachoengsao, Chai Nat, Chaiyaphum, Chanthaburi,
Chiang Mai, Chiang Rai, Chon Buri, Chumphon, Kalasin, Kamphaeng
Phet, Kanchanaburi, Khon Kaen, Krabi, Krung Thep Mahanakhon
(Bangkok), Lampang, Lamphun, Loei, Lop Buri, Mae Hong Son, Maha
Sarakham, Mukdahan, Nakhon Nayok, Nakhon Pathom, Nakhon Phanom,
Nakhon Ratchasima, Nakhon Sawan, Nakhon Si Thammarat, Nan,
Narathiwat, Nong Bua Lamphu, Nong Khai, Nonthaburi, Pathum Thani,
Pattani, Phangnga, Phatthalung, Phayao, Phetchabun, Phetchaburi,
Phichit, Phitsanulok, Phra Nakhon Si Ayutthaya, Phrae, Phuket,
Prachin Buri, Prachuap Khiri Khan, Ranong, Ratchaburi, Rayong, Roi
Et, Sa Kaeo, Sakon Nakhon, Samut Prakan, Samut Sakhon, Samut
Songkhram, Sara Buri, Satun, Sing Buri, Sisaket, Songkhla,
Sukhothai, Suphan Buri, Surat Thani, Surin, Tak, Trang, Trat, Ubon
Ratchathani, Udon Thani, Uthai Thani, Uttaradit, Yala, Yasothon


Independence:

1238 (traditional founding date; never colonized)


National holiday:

Birthday of King PHUMIPHON (BHUMIBOL), 5 December (1927)


Constitution:

constitution signed by King PHUMIPHON (BHUMIBOL) on 24 August 2007


Legal system:

based on civil law system, with influences of common law; has not
accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal and compulsory


Executive branch:

chief of state: King PHUMIPHON Adunyadet or (BHUMIBOL Adulyadej)
(since 9 June 1946)
head of government: Prime Minister ABHISIT Wetchachiwa, also spelled
ABHISIT Vejjajiva (since 17 December 2008); Deputy Prime Minister
OLARN Cahipravat (since 24 September 2008); Deputy Prime Minister
SANAN Kachornprasat, also spelled SANAN Kachornparsart (since 7
February 2008); Deputy Prime Minister SOMPONG Amornwiwat (since 24
September 2008)
cabinet: Council of Ministers
note: there is also a Privy Council
elections: monarch is hereditary; according to 2007 constitution,
prime minister is designated from among members of House of
Representatives; following national elections for House of
Representatives, leader of party that could organize a majority
coalition usually was appointed prime minister by king; prime
minister is limited to two 4-year terms


Legislative branch:

bicameral National Assembly or Rathasapha consisted of the Senate or
Wuthisapha (150 seats; 76 members elected by popular vote
representing 76 provinces, 74 appointed by judges and independent
government bodies; all serve six-year terms) and the House of
Representatives or Sapha Phuthaen Ratsadon (480 seats; 400 members
elected from 157 multi-seat constituencies and 80 elected on
proportional party-list basis of 10 per eight zones or groupings of
provinces; all serve four-year terms)
elections: Senate - last held on 2 March 2008 (next to be held in
March 2014); House of Representatives - last election held on 23
December 2007 (next to be held in December 2011)
election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - NA; House of Representatives - percent of vote by party -
NA; seats by party - PPP 233, DP 164, TNP 34, Motherland 24, Middle
Way 11, Unity 9, Royalist People's 5
note: 74 senators were appointed on 19 February 2008 by a
seven-member committee headed by the chief of the Constitutional
Court; 76 senators were elected on 2 March 2008; elections to the
Senate are non-partisan; registered political party members are
disqualified from being senators


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court or Sandika (judges appointed by the monarch)


Political parties and leaders:

Democrat Party or DP (Prachathipat Party) [ABHISIT Wetchachiwa, also
spelled ABHISIT Vejjajiva]; Matchima Thippatai (Middle Way Party)
[ANONGWAN Therpsuthin] - disbanded; Motherland Party (Peua Pandin
Party); People's Power Party (Palang Prachachon Party) or PPP
[SOMCHAI Wongsawat, acting] - disbanded; Royalist People's Party
(Pracharaj) [SANOH Thienthong]; Ruam Jai Thai Party (Thai Unity
Party) [CHETTA Thanacharo, also spelled CHETTHA Thanajaro]; Thai
Nation Party or TNP (Chat Thai Party) [BARNHARN SILPA-ARCHA] -
disbanded


Political pressure groups and leaders:

People's Alliance for Democracy; Campaign for Democracy [Pibob
THONGCHAI]


International organization participation:

ADB, APEC, APT, ARF, ASEAN, BIMSTEC, BIS, CP, EAS, FAO, G-77, IAEA,
IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO,
ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC,
MIGA, NAM, OAS (observer), OIC (observer), OIF (observer), OPCW,
OSCE (partner), PCA, PIF (partner), UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNHCR, UNIDO, UNITAR, UNMIS, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires DAMRONG
Kraikruan
chancery: 1024 Wisconsin Avenue NW, Suite 401, Washington, DC 20007
telephone: [1] (202) 944-3600
FAX: [1] (202) 944-3611
consulate(s) general: Chicago, Los Angeles, New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Eric G. JOHN
embassy: 120-122 Wireless Road, Bangkok 10330
mailing address: APO AP 96546
telephone: [66] (2) 205-4000
FAX: [66] (2) 254-2990, 205-4131
consulate(s) general: Chiang Mai


Flag description:

five horizontal bands of red (top), white, blue (double width),
white, and red


Economy
Thailand



Economy - overview:

With a well-developed infrastructure, a free-enterprise economy, and
generally pro-investment policies, Thailand appears to have fully
recovered from the 1997-98 Asian Financial Crisis. The country was
one of East Asia's best performers from 2002-04. Boosted by strong
export growth, the Thai economy grew 4.5% in 2007. Bangkok has
pursued preferential trade agreements with a variety of partners in
an effort to boost exports and to maintain high growth. By 2007, the
tourism sector had largely recovered from the major 2004 tsunami.
Following the military coup in September 2006, investment and
consumer confidence stagnated due to the uncertain political climate
that lasted through the December 2007 elections. Foreign investor
sentiment was further tempered by a 30% reserve requirement on
capital inflows instituted in December 2006, and discussion of
amending Thailand's rules governing foreign-owned businesses.
Economic growth in 2007 was due almost entirely to robust export
performance - despite the pressure of an appreciating currency.
Exports have performed at record levels, rising nearly 17% in 2006
and 12% in 2007. Export-oriented manufacturing - in particular
automobile production - and farm output are driving these gains.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$521.5 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$245.7 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

4.8% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$8,000 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 11.4%
industry: 43.8%
services: 44.8% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

36.9 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 49%
industry: 14%
services: 37% (2000 est.)


Unemployment rate:

1.4% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

10% (2004 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.7%
highest 10%: 33.4% (2002)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

42 (2002)


Investment (gross fixed):

26.8% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $44.14 billion
expenditures: $49.83 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 October - 30 September


Public debt:

37.9% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.2% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

3.75% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

7.05% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$28.62 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$216.6 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$241.8 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

rice, cassava (tapioca), rubber, corn, sugarcane, coconuts, soybeans


Industries:

tourism, textiles and garments, agricultural processing, beverages,
tobacco, cement, light manufacturing such as jewelry and electric
appliances, computers and parts, integrated circuits, furniture,
plastics, automobiles and automotive parts; world's second-largest
tungsten producer and third-largest tin producer


Industrial production growth rate:

5.4% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

130.7 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

123.9 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

731 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

4.488 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 91.3%
hydro: 6.4%
nuclear: 0%
other: 2.4% (2001)


Oil - production:

348,600 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

928,600 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

207,400 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

832,900 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

460 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

25.4 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

35.3 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

9.8 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

331.2 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$14.92 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$151.1 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

textiles and footwear, fishery products, rice, rubber, jewelry,
automobiles, computers and electrical appliances


Exports - partners:

US 12.6%, Japan 11.9%, China 9.7%, Singapore 6.3%, Hong Kong 5.7%,
Malaysia 5.1% (2007)


Imports:

$125.2 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

capital goods, intermediate goods and raw materials, consumer goods,
fuels


Imports - partners:

Japan 20.3%, China 11.6%, US 6.8%, Malaysia 6.2%, UAE 4.9%,
Singapore 4.5%, Taiwan 4.1% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$171.1 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$87.46 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$59.52 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$80.83 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$7.013 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$139.6 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

baht (THB)


Currency code:

THB


Exchange rates:

baht per US dollar - 33.599 (2007), 37.882 (2006), 40.22 (2005),
40.222 (2004), 41.485 (2003)


Communications
Thailand



Telephones - main lines in use:

7.024 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

51.377 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: high quality system, especially in urban areas
like Bangkok
domestic: fixed line system provided by both a government owned and
commercial provider; wireless service expanding rapidly and
outpacing fixed lines
international: country code - 66; connected to major submarine cable
systems providing links throughout Asia, Australia, Middle East,
Europe, and US; satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Indian
Ocean, 1 Pacific Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 238, FM 351, shortwave 6 (2007)


Radios:

13.96 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

111 (2006)


Televisions:

15.19 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.th


Internet hosts:

1.116 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

15 (2000)


Internet users:

13.416 million (2007)


Transportation
Thailand



Airports:

106 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 65
over 3,047 m: 8
2,438 to 3,047 m: 11
1,524 to 2,437 m: 23
914 to 1,523 m: 17
under 914 m: 6 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 41
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 12
under 914 m: 28 (2007)


Heliports:

3 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 4,381 km; refined products 320 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 4,071 km
narrow gauge: 4,071 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 180,053 km (includes 450 km of expressways) (2006)


Waterways:

4,000 km
note: 3,701 km navigable by boats with drafts up to 0.9 m (2005)


Merchant marine:

total: 398
by type: bulk carrier 53, cargo 135, chemical tanker 15, container
22, liquefied gas 28, passenger/cargo 10, petroleum tanker 100,
refrigerated cargo 32, specialized tanker 2, vehicle carrier 1
foreign-owned: 16 (China 1, Japan 4, Malaysia 3, Singapore 2, Taiwan
1, UK 5)
registered in other countries: 40 (Bahamas 5, Mongolia 1, Panama 10,
Singapore 23, Tuvalu 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Bangkok, Laem Chabang, Prachuap Port, Si Racha


Military
Thailand



Military branches:

Royal Thai Army (RTA), Royal Thai Navy (RTN, includes Royal Thai
Marine Corps), Royal Thai Air Force (Knogtap Agard Thai, RTAF) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

21 years of age for compulsory military service; 18 years of age for
voluntary military service; males are registered at 18 years of age;
2-year conscript service obligation (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 17,553,410
females age 16-49: 17,751,268 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 12,968,674
females age 16-49: 14,058,779 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 531,315
female: 511,288 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.8% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Thailand



Disputes - international:

separatist violence in Thailand's predominantly Muslim southern
provinces prompt border closures and controls with Malaysia to stem
terrorist activities; Southeast Asian states have enhanced border
surveillance to check the spread of avian flu; talks continue on
completion of demarcation with Laos but disputes remain over several
islands in the Mekong River; despite continuing border committee
talks, Thailand must deal with Karen and other ethnic rebels,
refugees, and illegal cross-border activities, and as of 2006, over
116,000 Karen, Hmong, and other refugees and asylum seekers from
Burma; Cambodia and Thailand dispute sections of historic boundary
with missing boundary markers; Cambodia claims Thai encroachments
into Cambodian territory and obstructing access to Preah Vihear
temple ruins awarded to Cambodia by ICJ decision in 1962; Thailand
is studying the feasibility of jointly constructing the Hatgyi Dam
on the Salween river near the border with Burma; in 2004,
international environmentalist pressure prompted China to halt
construction of 13 dams on the Salween River that flows through
China, Burma, and Thailand


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 132,241 (Burma) (2007)


Illicit drugs:

a minor producer of opium, heroin, and marijuana; transit point for
illicit heroin en route to the international drug market from Burma
and Laos; eradication efforts have reduced the area of cannabis
cultivation and shifted some production to neighboring countries;
opium poppy cultivation has been reduced by eradication efforts;
also a drug money-laundering center; minor role in methamphetamine
production for regional consumption; major consumer of
methamphetamine since the 1990s despite a series of government
crackdowns



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Timor-Leste

Introduction
Timor-Leste



Background:

The Portuguese began to trade with the island of Timor in the early
16th century and colonized it in mid-century. Skirmishing with the
Dutch in the region eventually resulted in an 1859 treaty in which
Portugal ceded the western portion of the island. Imperial Japan
occupied Portuguese Timor from 1942 to 1945, but Portugal resumed
colonial authority after the Japanese defeat in World War II. East
Timor declared itself independent from Portugal on 28 November 1975
and was invaded and occupied by Indonesian forces nine days later.
It was incorporated into Indonesia in July 1976 as the province of
Timor Timur (East Timor). An unsuccessful campaign of pacification
followed over the next two decades, during which an estimated
100,000 to 250,000 individuals lost their lives. On 30 August 1999,
in a UN-supervised popular referendum, an overwhelming majority of
the people of Timor-Leste voted for independence from Indonesia.
Between the referendum and the arrival of a multinational
peacekeeping force in late September 1999, anti-independence
Timorese militias - organized and supported by the Indonesian
military - commenced a large-scale, scorched-earth campaign of
retribution. The militias killed approximately 1,400 Timorese and
forcibly pushed 300,000 people into western Timor as refugees. The
majority of the country's infrastructure, including homes,
irrigation systems, water supply systems, and schools, and nearly
100% of the country's electrical grid were destroyed. On 20
September 1999 the Australian-led peacekeeping troops of the
International Force for East Timor (INTERFET) deployed to the
country and brought the violence to an end. On 20 May 2002,
Timor-Leste was internationally recognized as an independent state.
In late April 2006, internal tensions threatened the new nation's
security when a military strike led to violence and a near breakdown
of law and order in Dili. At the request of the Government of
Timor-Leste, an Australian-led International Stabilization Force
(ISF) deployed to Timor-Leste in late May. In August, the UN
Security Council established the UN Integrated Mission in
Timor-Leste (UNMIT), which included an authorized police presence of
over 1,600 personnel. In subsequent months, many of the ISF soldiers
were replaced by UN police officers; approximately 80 ISF officers
remained as of January 2008. From April to June 2007, the Government
of Timor-Leste held presidential and parliamentary elections in a
largely peaceful atmosphere with the support and assistance of UNMIT
and international donors.


Geography
Timor-Leste



Location:

Southeastern Asia, northwest of Australia in the Lesser Sunda
Islands at the eastern end of the Indonesian archipelago; note -
Timor-Leste includes the eastern half of the island of Timor, the
Oecussi (Ambeno) region on the northwest portion of the island of
Timor, and the islands of Pulau Atauro and Pulau Jaco


Geographic coordinates:

8 50 S, 125 55 E


Map references:

Southeast Asia


Area:

total: 15,007 sq km
land: NA sq km
water: NA sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than Connecticut


Land boundaries:

total: 228 km
border countries: Indonesia 228 km


Coastline:

706 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; hot, humid; distinct rainy and dry seasons


Terrain:

mountainous


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Timor Sea, Savu Sea, and Banda Sea 0 m
highest point: Foho Tatamailau 2,963 m


Natural resources:

gold, petroleum, natural gas, manganese, marble


Land use:

arable land: 8.2%
permanent crops: 4.57%
other: 87.23% (2005)


Irrigated land:

1,065 sq km (2003)


Natural hazards:

floods and landslides are common; earthquakes, tsunamis, tropical
cyclones


Environment - current issues:

widespread use of slash and burn agriculture has led to
deforestation and soil erosion


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Climate Change, Desertification


Geography - note:

Timor comes from the Malay word for "East"; the island of Timor is
part of the Malay Archipelago and is the largest and easternmost of
the Lesser Sunda Islands


People
Timor-Leste



Population:

1,108,777
note: other estimates range as low as 800,000 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 35.1% (male 197,975/female 191,716)
15-64 years: 61.6% (male 347,573/female 334,908)
65 years and over: 3.3% (male 17,578/female 19,027) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 21.5 years
male: 21.5 years
female: 21.5 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.05% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

26.52 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

6.02 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.92 male(s)/female
total population: 1.03 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 41.98 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 48.16 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 35.49 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 66.94 years
male: 64.6 years
female: 69.39 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

3.36 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: chikungunya, dengue fever and malaria (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Timorese
adjective: Timorese


Ethnic groups:

Austronesian (Malayo-Polynesian), Papuan, small Chinese minority


Religions:

Roman Catholic 98%, Muslim 1%, Protestant 1% (2005)


Languages:

Tetum (official), Portuguese (official), Indonesian, English
note: there are about 16 indigenous languages; Tetum, Galole,
Mambae, and Kemak are spoken by significant numbers of people


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 58.6%
male: NA
female: NA (2002)


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Timor-Leste



Country name:

conventional long form: Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste
conventional short form: Timor-Leste
local long form: Republika Demokratika Timor Lorosa'e [Tetum];
Republica Democratica de Timor-Leste [Portuguese]
local short form: Timor Lorosa'e [Tetum]; Timor-Leste [Portuguese]
former: East Timor, Portuguese Timor


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Dili
geographic coordinates: 8 35 S, 125 36 E
time difference: UTC+9 (14 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

13 administrative districts; Aileu, Ainaro, Baucau, Bobonaro
(Maliana), Cova-Lima (Suai), Dili, Ermera, Lautem (Los Palos),
Liquica, Manatuto, Manufahi (Same), Oecussi (Ambeno), Viqueque


Independence:

28 November 1975 (independence proclaimed from Portugal); note - 20
May 2002 is the official date of international recognition of
Timor-Leste's independence from Indonesia


National holiday:

Independence Day, 28 November (1975)


Constitution:

22 March 2002 (based on the Portuguese model)


Legal system:

UN-drafted legal system based on Indonesian law remains in place but
is to be replaced by civil and penal codes based on Portuguese law;
these have passed but have not been promulgated; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

17 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Jose RAMOS-HORTA (since 20 May 2007); note
- the president plays a largely symbolic role but is able to veto
legislation, dissolve parliament, and call national elections
head of government: Prime Minister Kay Rala Xanana GUSMAO (since 8
August 2007), note - he formerly used the name Jose Alexandre
GUSMAO; Deputy Prime Minister Jose Luis GUTERRES (since 8 August
2007)
cabinet: Council of Ministers
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held on 9 April 2007
with run-off on 8 May 2007 (next to be held in May 2012); following
elections, president appoints leader of majority party or majority
coalition as prime minister
election results: Jose RAMOS-HORTA elected president; percent of
vote - Jose RAMOS-HORTA 69.2%, Francisco GUTTERES 30.8%


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Parliament (number of seats can vary from 52 to
65; members elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held on 30 June 2007 (next elections due by June
2012)
election results: percent of vote by party - FRETILIN 29%, CNRT
24.1%, ASDT-PSD 15.8%, PD 11.3%, PUN 4.5%, KOTA-PPT (Democratic
Alliance) 3.2%, UNTERDIM 3.2%, others 8.9%; seats by party -
FRETILIN 21, CNRT 18, ASDT-PSD 11, PD 8, PUN 3, KOTA-PPT 2, UNDERTIM
2


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court of Justice - constitution calls for one judge to be
appointed by National Parliament and rest appointed by Superior
Council for Judiciary; note - until Supreme Court is established,
Court of Appeals is highest court


Political parties and leaders:

Democratic Party or PD [Fernando de ARAUJO]; National Congress for
Timorese Reconstruction or CNRT [Xanana GUSMAO]; National Democratic
Union of Timorese Resistance or UNDERTIM [Cornelio DA Conceicao
GAMA]; National Unity Party or PUN [Fernanda BORGES]; People's Party
of Timor or PPT [Jacob XAVIER]; Revolutionary Front of Independent
Timor-Leste or FRETILIN [Mari ALKATIRI]; Social Democratic
Association of Timor or ASDT [Francisco Xavier do AMARAL]; Social
Democratic Party or PSD [Mario CARRASCALAO]; Sons of the Mountain
Warriors or KOTA [Manuel TILMAN] (also known as Association of
Timorese Heroes)


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

ACP, ADB, ARF, CPLP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IPU, MIGA, NAM, OPCW, PIF
(observer), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNWTO, UPU,
WCO, WFTU, WHO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Jorge CAMEO
chancery: 4201 Connecticut Avenue NW, Suite 504,Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 966-3202
FAX: [1] (202) 966-3205
consulate(s) general: New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Hans G. KLEMM
embassy: Avenida de Portugal, Praia dos Conqueiros, Dili
mailing address: US Department of State, 8250 Dili Place,
Washington, DC 20521-8250
telephone: (670) 332-4684
FAX: (670) 331-3206


Flag description:

red, with a black isosceles triangle (based on the hoist side)
superimposed on a slightly longer yellow arrowhead that extends to
the center of the flag; a white star is in the center of the black
triangle


Economy
Timor-Leste



Economy - overview:

In late 1999, about 70% of the economic infrastructure of
Timor-Leste was laid waste by Indonesian troops and
anti-independence militias. Three hundred thousand people fled
westward. Over the next three years a massive international program,
manned by 5,000 peacekeepers (8,000 at peak) and 1,300 police
officers, led to substantial reconstruction in both urban and rural
areas. By the end of 2005, refugees had returned or had settled in
Indonesia. The country continues to face great challenges in
rebuilding its infrastructure, strengthening the civil
administration, and generating jobs for young people entering the
work force. The development of oil and gas resources in offshore
waters has begun to supplement government revenues ahead of schedule
and above expectations - the result of high petroleum prices. The
technology-intensive industry, however, has done little to create
jobs for the unemployed because there are no production facilities
in Timor. Gas is piped to Australia. In June 2005 the National
Parliament unanimously approved the creation of a Petroleum Fund to
serve as a repository for all petroleum revenues and preserve the
value of Timor-Leste's petroleum wealth for future generations. The
Fund held assets of US$1.8 billion as of September 2007. The
mid-2006 outbreak of violence and civil unrest disrupted both
private and public sector economic activity and created 100,000
internally displaced persons - about 10 percent of the population.
While real non-oil GDP growth in 2006 was negative, the economy
probably rebounded in 2007. The underlying economic policy challenge
the country faces remains how best to use oil-and-gas wealth to lift
the non-oil economy onto a higher growth path and reduce poverty. In
late 2007, the new government announced plans aimed at increasing
spending, reducing poverty, and improving the country's
infrastructure, but it continues to face capacity constraints. In
the short term, the government must also address continuing problems
related to the crisis of 2006, especially the displaced Timorese.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$2.608 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$459 million (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

19.8% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$2,500 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 32.2%
industry: 12.8%
services: 55% (2005)


Labor force:

NA


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: NA%
industry: NA%
services: NA%


Unemployment rate:

50% estimated; note - unemployment in urban areas reached 20%; data
do not include underemployed (2001 est.)


Population below poverty line:

42% (2003 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

38 (2002 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $733 million
expenditures: $309 million
note: the government passed a transitional budget to cover the
latter half of 2007 and has moved the fiscal cycle to a calendar
year, starting with the budget they passed for 2008 (FY06/07 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

7.8% (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

15.05% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$74.94 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$68.78 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

NA (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

coffee, rice, corn, cassava, sweet potatoes, soybeans, cabbage,
mangoes, bananas, vanilla


Industries:

printing, soap manufacturing, handicrafts, woven cloth


Industrial production growth rate:

8.5% (2004 est.)


Electricity - production:

NA kWh


Electricity - consumption:

NA kWh


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

78,480 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - proved reserves:

NA


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

200 billion cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

$1.161 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$10 million; note - excludes oil (2005 est.)


Exports - commodities:

coffee, sandalwood, marble; note - potential for oil and vanilla
exports


Exports - partners:

US, Germany, Portugal, Australia, Indonesia (2006)


Imports:

$202 million (2004 est.)


Imports - commodities:

food, gasoline, kerosene, machinery


Economic aid - recipient:

$184.7 million (2005 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

US dollar (USD)


Currency code:

USD


Exchange rates:

the US dollar is used


Communications
Timor-Leste



Telephones - main lines in use:

2,400 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

69,000 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: rudimentary service limited to urban areas
domestic: system suffered significant damage during the violence
associated with independence; extremely limited fixed-line services;
mobile-cellular services and coverage limited primarily to urban
areas
international: country code - 670; international service is
available in major urban centers


Radio broadcast stations:

at least 21 (Timor-Leste has one national public broadcaster and 20
community and church radio stations - frequency type NA)


Radios:

NA


Television broadcast stations:

1 (Timor-Leste has one national public broadcaster)


Televisions:

NA


Internet country code:

.tl


Internet hosts:

285 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

NA


Internet users:

1,200 (2006)


Transportation
Timor-Leste



Airports:

8 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 3
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 5
914 to 1,523 m: 3
under 914 m: 2 (2007)


Heliports:

9 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 6,040 km
paved: 2,600 km
unpaved: 3,440 km (2005)


Merchant marine:

total: 1
by type: passenger/cargo 1 (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Dili


Military
Timor-Leste



Military branches:

Timor-Leste Defense Force (Forcas de Defesa de Timor-L'este,
Falintil (FDTL)): Army, Navy (Armada) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service; no conscription
(2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 284,903
females age 16-49: 272,212 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 224,096
females age 16-49: 231,901 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 13,045
female: 12,670 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

NA


Transnational Issues
Timor-Leste



Disputes - international:

Timor-Leste-Indonesia Boundary Committee has resolved all but a
small portion of the land boundary, but discussions on maritime
boundaries are stalemated over sovereignty of the uninhabited coral
island of Pulau Batek/Fatu Sinai in the north and alignment with
Australian claims in the south; many refugees who left Timor-Leste
in 2003 still reside in Indonesia and refuse repatriation; Australia
and Timor-Leste agreed in 2005 to defer the disputed portion of the
boundary for 50 years and to split hydrocarbon revenues evenly
outside the Joint Petroleum Development Area covered by the 2002
Timor Sea Treaty


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

IDPs: 100,000 (2007)


Illicit drugs:

NA



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Togo

Introduction
Togo



Background:

French Togoland became Togo in 1960. Gen. Gnassingbe EYADEMA,
installed as military ruler in 1967, ruled Togo with a heavy hand
for almost four decades. Despite the facade of multiparty elections
instituted in the early 1990s, the government was largely dominated
by President EYADEMA, whose Rally of the Togolese People (RPT) party
has maintained power almost continually since 1967 and maintains a
majority of seats in today's legislature. Upon EYADEMA's death in
February 2005, the military installed the president's son, Faure
GNASSINGBE, and then engineered his formal election two months
later. Democratic gains since then allowed Togo to hold its first
relatively free and fair legislative elections in October 2007.
After years of political unrest and fire from international
organizations for human rights abuses, Togo is finally being
re-welcomed into the international community.


Geography
Togo



Location:

Western Africa, bordering the Bight of Benin, between Benin and Ghana


Geographic coordinates:

8 00 N, 1 10 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 56,785 sq km
land: 54,385 sq km
water: 2,400 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than West Virginia


Land boundaries:

total: 1,647 km
border countries: Benin 644 km, Burkina Faso 126 km, Ghana 877 km


Coastline:

56 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 30 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; hot, humid in south; semiarid in north


Terrain:

gently rolling savanna in north; central hills; southern plateau;
low coastal plain with extensive lagoons and marshes


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Mont Agou 986 m


Natural resources:

phosphates, limestone, marble, arable land


Land use:

arable land: 44.2%
permanent crops: 2.11%
other: 53.69% (2005)


Irrigated land:

70 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

14.7 cu km (2001)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.17 cu km/yr (53%/2%/45%)
per capita: 28 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

hot, dry harmattan wind can reduce visibility in north during
winter; periodic droughts


Environment - current issues:

deforestation attributable to slash-and-burn agriculture and the use
of wood for fuel; water pollution presents health hazards and
hinders the fishing industry; air pollution increasing in urban areas


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Ozone
Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

the country's length allows it to stretch through six distinct
geographic regions; climate varies from tropical to savanna


People
Togo



Population:

5,858,673
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 41.7% (male 1,226,320/female 1,218,182)
15-64 years: 55.6% (male 1,588,354/female 1,666,274)
65 years and over: 2.7% (male 63,508/female 96,035) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 18.6 years
male: 18.2 years
female: 19 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.717% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

36.66 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

9.48 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.95 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.66 male(s)/female
total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 57.66 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 65.01 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 50.09 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 58.28 years
male: 56.2 years
female: 60.43 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

4.85 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

4.1% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

110,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

10,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: malaria and yellow fever
water contact disease: schistosomiasis
respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis
note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Togolese (singular and plural)
adjective: Togolese


Ethnic groups:

African (37 tribes; largest and most important are Ewe, Mina, and
Kabre) 99%, European and Syrian-Lebanese less than 1%


Religions:

Christian 29%, Muslim 20%, indigenous beliefs 51%


Languages:

French (official and the language of commerce), Ewe and Mina (the
two major African languages in the south), Kabye (sometimes spelled
Kabiye) and Dagomba (the two major African languages in the north)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 60.9%
male: 75.4%
female: 46.9% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 9 years
male: 11 years
female: 7 years (2000)


Education expenditures:

2.6% of GDP (2002)


Government
Togo



Country name:

conventional long form: Togolese Republic
conventional short form: Togo
local long form: Republique togolaise
local short form: none
former: French Togoland


Government type:

republic under transition to multiparty democratic rule


Capital:

name: Lome
geographic coordinates: 6 08 N, 1 13 E
time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

5 regions (regions, singular - region); Centrale, Kara, Maritime,
Plateaux, Savanes


Independence:

27 April 1960 (from French-administered UN trusteeship)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 27 April (1960)


Constitution:

multiparty draft constitution approved by High Council of the
Republic 1 July 1992, adopted by public referendum 27 September 1992


Legal system:

French-based court system; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with
reservations


Suffrage:

NA years of age; universal (adult)


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Faure GNASSINGBE (since 4 May 2005); note
- Gnassingbe EYADEMA died on 5 February 2005 and was succeeded by
his son, Faure GNASSINGBE, with the support of the military
following international condemnation for the unconstitutional move
he then stepped aside pending elections, and Abass BONFOH served as
interim president; Faure GNASSINGBE later won popular elections in
April 2005
head of government: Prime Minister Gilbert HOUNGBO (since 7
September 2008)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president and the
prime minister
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(no term limits); election last held 24 April 2005 (next to be held
by 2010); prime minister appointed by the president
election results: Faure GNASSINGBE elected president; percent of
vote - Faure GNASSINGBE 60.2%, Emmanuel Akitani BOB 38.3%, Nicolas
LAWSON 1%, Harry OLYMPIO 0.5%


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly (81 seats; members are elected by
popular vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held on 14 October 2007 (next to be held in 2012)
election results: percent of vote by party - RPT 39.4%, UFC 37.0%,
CAR 8.2%, independents 2.5%, other 12.9%; seats by party - RPT 50,
UFC 27, CAR 4


Judicial branch:

Court of Appeal or Cour d'Appel; Supreme Court or Cour Supreme


Political parties and leaders:

Action Committee for Renewal or CAR [Yawovi AGBOYIBO]; Democratic
Convention of African Peoples or CDPA; Democratic Party for Renewal
or PDR; Juvento [Monsilia DJATO]; Movement of the Believers of Peace
and Equality or MOCEP; Pan-African Patriotic Convergence or CPP;
Rally for the Support for Development and Democracy or RSDD [Harry
OLYMPIO]; Rally of the Togolese People or RPT [Faure GNASSINGBE];
Socialist Pact for Renewal or PSR; Union for Democracy and Social
Progress or UDPS [Gagou KOKOU]; Union of Forces for a Change or UFC
[Gilchrist OLYMPIO]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

ACP, AfDB, AU, ECOWAS, Entente, FAO, FZ, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICC, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC,
IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OIC, OIF,
OPCW, PCA, UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNOCI, UNWTO,
UPU, WADB (regional), WAEMU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Lorempo
LANDJERGUE
chancery: 2208 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 234-4212
FAX: [1] (202) 232-3190


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Patricia McMahon HAWKINS
embassy: 4332 Blvd. Gnassingbe Eyadema, Cite OUA, Lome
mailing address: B. P. 852, Lome; 2300 Lome Place, Washington, DC
20512-2300
telephone: [228] 261-5470
FAX: [228] 261-5501


Flag description:

five equal horizontal bands of green (top and bottom) alternating
with yellow; a white five-pointed star on a red square is in the
upper hoist-side corner; uses the popular pan-African colors of
Ethiopia


Economy
Togo



Economy - overview:

This small, sub-Saharan economy is heavily dependent on both
commercial and subsistence agriculture, which provides employment
for 65% of the labor force. Some basic foodstuffs must still be
imported. Cocoa, coffee, and cotton generate about 40% of export
earnings with cotton being the most important cash crop. Togo is the
world's fourth-largest producer of phosphate. The government's
decade-long effort, supported by the World Bank and the IMF, to
implement economic reform measures, encourage foreign investment,
and bring revenues in line with expenditures has moved slowly.
Progress depends on follow through on privatization, increased
openness in government financial operations, progress toward
legislative elections, and continued support from foreign donors.
Togo is working with donors to write a Poverty Reduction and Growth
Facility (PRGF) that could eventually lead to a debt reduction plan.
Economic growth remains marginal due to declining cotton production,
underinvestment in phosphate mining, and strained relations with
donors.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$5.042 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$2.497 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

2.1% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$900 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 40%
industry: 25%
services: 35% (2003 est.)


Labor force:

1.302 million (1998)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 65%
industry: 5%
services: 30% (1998 est.)


Unemployment rate:

NA%


Population below poverty line:

32% (1989 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Investment (gross fixed):

24.2% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $466.8 million
expenditures: $514.7 million (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

1% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

4.25% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

NA (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$624.9 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$383.9 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$590.7 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

coffee, cocoa, cotton, yams, cassava (tapioca), corn, beans, rice,
millet, sorghum; livestock; fish


Industries:

phosphate mining, agricultural processing, cement, handicrafts,
textiles, beverages


Industrial production growth rate:

1% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

203 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

607 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

505 million kWh; note - electricity supplied by Ghana (2006 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 98.7%
hydro: 1.3%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

17,770 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

1,547 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

16,650 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$159 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$702 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

reexports, cotton, phosphates, coffee, cocoa


Exports - partners:

Ghana 16.8%, Burkina Faso 14.5%, Germany 9.2%, Benin 9.1%,
Netherlands 5.9%, Mali 5.8%, India 4.7% (2007)


Imports:

$1.201 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, foodstuffs, petroleum products


Imports - partners:

China 36.3%, Estonia 9.6%, US 7.6%, Netherlands 7.3%, France 7%
(2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

ODA, $86.71 million (2005 est.)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$438 million (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$2 billion (2005)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note - responsible
authority is the Central Bank of the West African States


Currency code:

XOF


Exchange rates:

Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US dollar - 482.71
(2007), 522.59 (2006), 527.47 (2005), 528.29 (2004), 581.2 (2003)
note: since 1 January 1999, the XOF franc has been pegged to the
euro at a rate of 655.957 XOF francs per euro


Communications
Togo



Telephones - main lines in use:

82,100 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

1.19 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: fair system based on a network of microwave
radio relay routes supplemented by open-wire lines and a
mobile-cellular system
domestic: microwave radio relay and open-wire lines for conventional
system; combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity roughly
15 telephones per 100 persons
international: country code - 228; satellite earth stations - 1
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean), 1 Symphonie


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 2, FM 9, shortwave 4 (1998)


Radios:

940,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

3 (plus 2 repeaters) (1997)


Televisions:

73,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.tg


Internet hosts:

769 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

3 (2001)


Internet users:

320,000 (2006)


Transportation
Togo



Airports:

9 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 7
914 to 1,523 m: 4
under 914 m: 3 (2007)


Railways:

total: 568 km
narrow gauge: 568 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 7,520 km
paved: 2,376 km
unpaved: 5,144 km (2000)


Waterways:

50 km (seasonally on Mono River depending on rainfall) (2005)


Merchant marine:

total: 10
by type: cargo 9, refrigerated cargo 1
foreign-owned: 6 (Bangladesh 1, Denmark 1, Egypt 1, Lebanon 1, Syria
2) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Kpeme, Lome


Military
Togo



Military branches:

Togolese Armed Forces: Ground Forces, Togolese Navy (Marine du
Togo), Togolese Air Force (Force Aerienne Togolaise, FAT), National
Gendarmerie (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for selective compulsory and voluntary military
service; 2-year service obligation (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,365,505
females age 16-49: 1,374,993 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 897,195
females age 16-49: 913,327 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 69,156
female: 69,200 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.6% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Togo



Disputes - international:

in 2001, Benin claimed Togo moved boundary monuments - joint
commission continues to resurvey the boundary; in 2006 14,000
Togolese refugees remain in Benin and Ghana out of the 40,000 who
fled there in 2005


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 5,000 (Ghana)
IDPs: 1,500 (2007)


Illicit drugs:

transit hub for Nigerian heroin and cocaine traffickers; money
laundering not a significant problem



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Tokelau

Introduction
Tokelau



Background:

Originally settled by Polynesian emigrants from surrounding island
groups, the Tokelau Islands were made a British protectorate in
1889. They were transferred to New Zealand administration in 1925.
Referenda held in 2006 and 2007 to change the status of the islands
from that of a New Zealand territory to one of free association with
New Zealand did not meet the needed threshold for approval.


Geography
Tokelau



Location:

Oceania, group of three atolls in the South Pacific Ocean, about
one-half of the way from Hawaii to New Zealand


Geographic coordinates:

9 00 S, 172 00 W


Map references:

Oceania


Area:

total: 10 sq km
land: 10 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

about 17 times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

101 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; moderated by trade winds (April to November)


Terrain:

low-lying coral atolls enclosing large lagoons


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: unnamed location 5 m


Natural resources:

NEGL


Land use:

arable land: 0% (soil is thin and infertile)
permanent crops: 0%
other: 100% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

lies in Pacific typhoon belt


Environment - current issues:

limited natural resources and overcrowding are contributing to
emigration to New Zealand


Geography - note:

consists of three atolls (Atafu, Fakaofo, Nukunonu), each with a
lagoon surrounded by a number of reef-bound islets of varying length
and rising to over 3 m above sea level


People
Tokelau



Population:

1,433 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 42%
15-64 years: 53%
65 years and over: 5%


Population growth rate:

-0.011% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Death rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

NA


Infant mortality rate:

total: NA
male: NA
female: NA (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: NA
male: NA
female: NA (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

NA (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Tokelauan(s)
adjective: Tokelauan


Ethnic groups:

Polynesian


Religions:

Congregational Christian Church 70%, Roman Catholic 28%, other 2%
note: on Atafu, all Congregational Christian Church of Samoa; on
Nukunonu, all Roman Catholic; on Fakaofo, both denominations, with
the Congregational Christian Church predominant


Languages:

Tokelauan (a Polynesian language), English


Literacy:

NA


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 11 years
male: 10 years
female: 11 years (2004)


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Tokelau



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Tokelau


Dependency status:

self-administering territory of New Zealand; note - Tokelau and New
Zealand have agreed to a draft constitution as Tokelau moves toward
free association with New Zealand; a UN sponsored referendum on self
governance in October 2007 did not produce the two-thirds majority
vote necessary for changing the political status


Government type:

NA


Capital:

none; each atoll has its own administrative center
time difference: UTC-11 (6 hours behind Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

none (territory of New Zealand)


Independence:

none (territory of New Zealand)


National holiday:

Waitangi Day (Treaty of Waitangi established British sovereignty
over New Zealand), 6 February (1840)


Constitution:

administered under the Tokelau Islands Act of 1948; amended in 1970


Legal system:

New Zealand and local statutes


Suffrage:

21 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by Governor General of New Zealand Anand SATYANAND
(since 23 August 2006); New Zealand is represented by Administrator
David PAYTON (since 17 October 2006)
head of government: Pio TUIA (since 23 February 2008); note -
position rotates annually among the three Faipule (village leaders)
cabinet: the Council for the Ongoing Government of Tokelau,
consisting of three Faipule (village leaders) and three Pulenuku
(village mayors), functions as a cabinet
elections: the monarch is hereditary; administrator appointed by the
Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade in New Zealand; the head of
government is chosen from the Council of Faipule and serves a
one-year term


Legislative branch:

unicameral General Fono (20 seats; based upon proportional
representation from the three islands elected by popular vote to
serve three-year terms; Atafu has seven seats, Fakaofo has seven
seats, Nukunonu has six seats); note - the Tokelau Amendment Act of
1996 confers limited legislative power on the General Fono
elections: last held 17-19 January 2008 (next to be held in 2011)
election results: independents 20


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court in New Zealand exercises civil and criminal
jurisdiction in Tokelau


Political parties and leaders:

none


Political pressure groups and leaders:

none


International organization participation:

PIF (observer), SPC, UNESCO (associate), UPU


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (territory of New Zealand)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (territory of New Zealand)


Flag description:

the flag of New Zealand is used


Economy
Tokelau



Economy - overview:

Tokelau's small size (three villages), isolation, and lack of
resources greatly restrain economic development and confine
agriculture to the subsistence level. The people rely heavily on aid
from New Zealand - about $4 million annually - to maintain public
services with annual aid being substantially greater than GDP. The
principal sources of revenue come from sales of copra, postage
stamps, souvenir coins, and handicrafts. Money is also remitted to
families from relatives in New Zealand.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$1.5 million (1993 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$NA


GDP - real growth rate:

NA%


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$1,000 (1993 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: NA%
industry: NA%
services: NA%


Labor force:

440 (2001)


Unemployment rate:

NA%


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Budget:

revenues: $430,800
expenditures: $2.8 million (1987 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 April - 31 March


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

NA%


Agriculture - products:

coconuts, copra, breadfruit, papayas, bananas; pigs, poultry, goats;
fish


Industries:

small-scale enterprises for copra production, woodworking, plaited
craft goods; stamps, coins; fishing


Electricity - production:

NA kWh


Electricity - consumption:

NA kWh


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Exports:

$0 (2002)


Exports - commodities:

stamps, copra, handicrafts


Exports - partners:

New Zealand (2006)


Imports:

$969,200 c.i.f. (2002)


Imports - commodities:

foodstuffs, building materials, fuel


Imports - partners:

New Zealand (2006)


Currency (code):

New Zealand dollar (NZD)


Currency code:

NZD


Exchange rates:

New Zealand dollars (NZD) per US dollar - 1.3811 (2007), 1.5408
(2006), 1.4203 (2005), 1.5087 (2004), 1.7221 (2003)


Communications
Tokelau



Telephones - main lines in use:

300 (2002)


Telephone system:

general assessment: modern satellite-based communications system
domestic: radiotelephone service between islands
international: country code - 690; radiotelephone service to Samoa;
government-regulated telephone service (TeleTok); satellite earth
stations - 3


Radio broadcast stations:

AM NA, FM NA, shortwave NA (one radio station provides service to
all islands) (2002)


Radios:

1,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.tk


Internet hosts:

273 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

NA


Transportation
Tokelau



Ports and terminals:

none; offshore anchorage only


Military
Tokelau



Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of New Zealand


Transnational Issues
Tokelau



Disputes - international:

Tokelau included American Samoa's Swains Island (Olohega) in its
2006 draft constitution



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Tonga

Introduction
Tonga



Background:

Tonga - unique among Pacific nations - never completely lost its
indigenous governance. The archipelagos of "The Friendly Islands"
were united into a Polynesian kingdom in 1845. Tonga became a
constitutional monarchy in 1875 and a British protectorate in 1900;
it withdrew from the protectorate and joined the Commonwealth of
Nations in 1970. Tonga remains the only monarchy in the Pacific.


Geography
Tonga



Location:

Oceania, archipelago in the South Pacific Ocean, about two-thirds of
the way from Hawaii to New Zealand


Geographic coordinates:

20 00 S, 175 00 W


Map references:

Oceania


Area:

total: 748 sq km
land: 718 sq km
water: 30 sq km


Area - comparative:

four times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

419 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation


Climate:

tropical; modified by trade winds; warm season (December to May),
cool season (May to December)


Terrain:

most islands have limestone base formed from uplifted coral
formation; others have limestone overlying volcanic base


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: unnamed location on Kao Island 1,033 m


Natural resources:

fish, fertile soil


Land use:

arable land: 20%
permanent crops: 14.67%
other: 65.33% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

cyclones (October to April); earthquakes and volcanic activity on
Fonuafo'ou


Environment - current issues:

deforestation results as more and more land is being cleared for
agriculture and settlement; some damage to coral reefs from starfish
and indiscriminate coral and shell collectors; overhunting threatens
native sea turtle populations


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine
Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

archipelago of 169 islands (36 inhabited)


People
Tonga



Population:

119,009 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 33.7% (male 20,484/female 19,633)
15-64 years: 62% (male 36,699/female 37,108)
65 years and over: 4.3% (male 2,135/female 2,950) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 21.8 years
male: 21.3 years
female: 22.3 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.669% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

21.81 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

5.12 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.72 male(s)/female
total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 11.88 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 13.07 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 10.63 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 70.44 years
male: 67.9 years
female: 73.1 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.5 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Tongan(s)
adjective: Tongan


Ethnic groups:

Polynesian, Europeans


Religions:

Christian (Free Wesleyan Church claims over 30,000 adherents)


Languages:

Tongan, English


Literacy:

definition: can read and write Tongan and/or English
total population: 98.9%
male: 98.8%
female: 99% (1999 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 13 years
male: 13 years
female: 13 years (2004)


Education expenditures:

5% of GDP (2004)


Government
Tonga



Country name:

conventional long form: Kingdom of Tonga
conventional short form: Tonga
local long form: Pule'anga Tonga
local short form: Tonga
former: Friendly Islands


Government type:

constitutional monarchy


Capital:

name: Nuku'alofa
geographic coordinates: 21 08 S, 175 12 W
time difference: UTC+13 (18 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

3 island groups; Ha'apai, Tongatapu, Vava'u


Independence:

4 June 1970 (from UK protectorate)


National holiday:

Emancipation Day, 4 June (1970)


Constitution:

4 November 1875; revised 1 January 1967


Legal system:

based on English common law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

21 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: King George TUPOU V (since 11 September 2006)
head of government: Prime Minister Dr. Feleti SEVELE (since 11
February 2006); Deputy Prime Minister Dr. Viliami TANGI (since 16
May 2006)
cabinet: Cabinet consists of 14 members, 10 appointed by the monarch
for life; four appointed from among the elected members of the
Legislative Assembly, including two each from the nobles' and
peoples' representatives serving three-year terms
note: there is also a Privy Council that consists of the monarch,
the cabinet, and two governors
elections: the monarch is hereditary; prime minister and deputy
prime minister appointed by the monarch


Legislative branch:

unicameral Legislative Assembly or Fale Alea (32 seats - 14 reserved
for cabinet ministers sitting ex officio, nine for nobles selected
by the country's 33 nobles, and nine elected by popular vote;
members serve three-year terms)
elections: last held on 23-24 April 2008 (next to be held in 2011)
election results: Peoples Representatives: percent of vote -
independents 54%, THRDM 28%, PDP 14%; seats - THRDM 4, independents
3, PDP 2


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the monarch); Court of Appeal
(Chief Justice and high court justices from overseas chosen and
approved by Privy Council)


Political parties and leaders:

Tonga Human Rights and Democracy Movement or THRDM [Uliti UATA];
People's Democratic Party or PDP [Tesina FUKO]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Human Rights and Democracy Movement Tonga or HRDMT [Rev. Simote VEA,
chairman]; Public Servant's Association [Finau TUTONE]


International organization participation:

ACP, ADB, C, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
IHO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, ITU, ITUC, OPCW, PIF, Sparteca,
SPC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Fekitamoeloa 'UTOIKAMANU
chancery: 250 East 51st Street, New York, NY 10022
telephone: [1] (917) 369-1025
FAX: [1] (917) 369-1024
consulate(s) general: San Francisco


Diplomatic representation from the US:

the US does not have an embassy in Tonga; the ambassador to Fiji is
accredited to Tonga


Flag description:

red with a bold red cross on a white rectangle in the upper
hoist-side corner


Economy
Tonga



Economy - overview:

Tonga has a small, open, South Pacific island economy. It has a
narrow export base in agricultural goods. Squash, vanilla beans, and
yams are the main crops, and agricultural exports, including fish,
make up two-thirds of total exports. The country must import a high
proportion of its food, mainly from New Zealand. The country remains
dependent on external aid and remittances from Tongan communities
overseas to offset its trade deficit. Tourism is the second-largest
source of hard currency earnings following remittances. The
government is emphasizing the development of the private sector,
especially the encouragement of investment, and is committing
increased funds for health and education. Tonga has a reasonably
sound basic infrastructure and well-developed social services. High
unemployment among the young, a continuing upturn in inflation,
pressures for democratic reform, and rising civil service
expenditures are major issues facing the government.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$526 million (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$219 million (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

-3.5% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$5,100 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 25%
industry: 17%
services: 57% (FY05/06 est.)


Labor force:

33,910 (2003)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 65%
industry and services: 35% (1997 est.)


Unemployment rate:

13% (FY03/04 est.)


Population below poverty line:

24% (FY03/04)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $80.48 million
expenditures: $109.8 million (FY07/08)


Fiscal year:

1 July - 30 June


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

5.9% (2007 est.)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

12.16% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$46.38 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$106.8 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$163.1 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

squash, coconuts, copra, bananas, vanilla beans, cocoa, coffee,
ginger, black pepper; fish


Industries:

tourism, construction, fishing


Industrial production growth rate:

1% (2003 est.)


Electricity - production:

43 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

39.99 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

870 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - imports:

1,035 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2007 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2007 est.)


Current account balance:

-$23 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$22 million f.o.b. (2006)


Exports - commodities:

squash, fish, vanilla beans, root crops


Exports - partners:

US 36.7%, Japan 21.6%, NZ 10.1%, Fiji 5.8%, Samoa 4.9% (2007)


Imports:

$139 million f.o.b. (2006)


Imports - commodities:

foodstuffs, machinery and transport equipment, fuels, chemicals


Imports - partners:

Fiji 32.5%, NZ 27.5%, US 9%, Australia 7.4%, China 5% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$31.75 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$40.83 million (yearend, FY04/05)


Debt - external:

$80.7 million (2004)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

pa'anga (TOP)


Currency code:

TOP


Exchange rates:

pa'anga (TOP) per US dollar - NA (2007), 2.0277 (2006), 1.96 (2005),
1.9716 (2004), 2.142 (2003)


Communications
Tonga



Telephones - main lines in use:

21,000 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

46,500 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: competition between Tonga Telecommunications
Corporation (TCC) and Shoreline Communications Tonga (SCT) is
accelerating expansion of telecommunications; SCT recently granted
authority to develop high-speed digital service for telephone,
Internet, and television
domestic: combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity
roughly 40 telephones per 100 persons; fully automatic switched
network
international: country code - 676; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Pacific Ocean) (2004)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 4, shortwave 1 (2001)


Radios:

61,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

3 (2004)


Televisions:

2,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.to


Internet hosts:

19,231 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

2 (2000)


Internet users:

8,400 (2007)


Transportation
Tonga



Airports:

6 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 5
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 3
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 680 km
paved: 184 km
unpaved: 496 km (2000)


Merchant marine:

total: 13
by type: bulk carrier 1, cargo 8, carrier 1, liquefied gas 1,
passenger/cargo 1, refrigerated cargo 1
foreign-owned: 4 (Australia 1, Cyprus 1, Switzerland 1, UK 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Nuku'alofa


Military
Tonga



Military branches:

Tonga Defense Services (TDS): Land Force (Royal Guard), Naval Force
(includes Royal Marines, Air Wing) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age (est.); no conscription (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 32,053
females age 16-49: 30,981 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 25,520
females age 16-49: 26,893 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 1,464
female: 1,412 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0.9% of GDP (2006 est.)


Transnational Issues
Tonga



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Trinidad and Tobago

Introduction
Trinidad and Tobago



Background:

First colonized by the Spanish, the islands came under British
control in the early 19th century. The islands' sugar industry was
hurt by the emancipation of the slaves in 1834. Manpower was
replaced with the importation of contract laborers from India
between 1845 and 1917, which boosted sugar production as well as the
cocoa industry. The discovery of oil on Trinidad in 1910 added
another important export. Independence was attained in 1962. The
country is one of the most prosperous in the Caribbean thanks
largely to petroleum and natural gas production and processing.
Tourism, mostly in Tobago, is targeted for expansion and is growing.
The government is coping with a rise in violent crime.


Geography
Trinidad and Tobago



Location:

Caribbean, islands between the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic
Ocean, northeast of Venezuela


Geographic coordinates:

11 00 N, 61 00 W


Map references:

Central America and the Caribbean


Area:

total: 5,128 sq km
land: 5,128 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Delaware


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

362 km


Maritime claims:

measured from claimed archipelagic baselines
territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm or to the outer edge of the continental
margin


Climate:

tropical; rainy season (June to December)


Terrain:

mostly plains with some hills and low mountains


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
highest point: El Cerro del Aripo 940 m


Natural resources:

petroleum, natural gas, asphalt


Land use:

arable land: 14.62%
permanent crops: 9.16%
other: 76.22% (2005)


Irrigated land:

40 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

3.8 cu km (2000)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.31 cu km/yr (68%/26%/6%)
per capita: 237 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

outside usual path of hurricanes and other tropical storms


Environment - current issues:

water pollution from agricultural chemicals, industrial wastes, and
raw sewage; oil pollution of beaches; deforestation; soil erosion


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

Pitch Lake, on Trinidad's southwestern coast, is the world's largest
natural reservoir of asphalt


People
Trinidad and Tobago



Population:

1,047,366 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 19% (male 102,352/female 96,487)
15-64 years: 71.8% (male 396,352/female 356,080)
65 years and over: 9.2% (male 42,998/female 53,097) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 32.3 years
male: 31.9 years
female: 32.8 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

-0.891% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

13.22 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

10.93 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-11.2 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.04 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.11 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.81 male(s)/female
total population: 1.07 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 23.59 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 25.34 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 21.76 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 67 years
male: 66.07 years
female: 67.98 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.73 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

3.2% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

29,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

1,900 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Trinidadian(s), Tobagonian(s)
adjective: Trinidadian, Tobagonian


Ethnic groups:

Indian (South Asian) 40%, African 37.5%, mixed 20.5%, other 1.2%,
unspecified 0.8% (2000 census)


Religions:

Roman Catholic 26%, Hindu 22.5%, Anglican 7.8%, Baptist 7.2%,
Pentecostal 6.8%, Muslim 5.8%, Seventh Day Adventist 4%, other
Christian 5.8%, other 10.8%, unspecified 1.4%, none 1.9% (2000
census)


Languages:

English (official), Caribbean Hindustani (a dialect of Hindi),
French, Spanish, Chinese


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 98.6%
male: 99.1%
female: 98% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 11 years
male: 11 years
female: 11 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

4.2% of GDP (200)


People - note:

in 2007, the government of Trinidad and Tobago estimated the
population to be 1.3 million


Government
Trinidad and Tobago



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Trinidad and Tobago
conventional short form: Trinidad and Tobago


Government type:

parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Port-of-Spain
geographic coordinates: 10 39 N, 61 31 W
time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

9 regional corporations, 2 city corporations, 3 borough
corporations, 1 ward
regional corporations: Couva/Tabaquite/Talparo, Diego Martin,
Mayaro/Rio Claro, Penal/Debe, Princes Town, Sangre Grande, San
Juan/Laventille, Siparia, Tunapuna/Piarco
city corporations: Port-of-Spain, San Fernando
borough corporations: Arima, Chaguanas, Point Fortin
ward: Tobago


Independence:

31 August 1962 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 31 August (1962)


Constitution:

1 August 1976


Legal system:

based on English common law; judicial review of legislative acts in
the Supreme Court; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President George Maxwell RICHARDS (since 17 March
2003)
head of government: Prime Minister Patrick MANNING (since 24
December 2001)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed from among the members of Parliament
elections: president elected by an electoral college, which consists
of the members of the Senate and House of Representatives, for a
five-year term (eligible for a second term); election last held on
11 February 2008 (next to be held by February 2013); the president
usually appoints as prime minister the leader of the majority party
in the House of Representatives
election results: George Maxwell RICHARDS reelected president;
percent of electoral college vote - NA


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (31 seats; 16 members
appointed by the ruling party, nine by the President, six by the
opposition party to serve a maximum term of five years) and the
House of Representatives (41 seats; members are elected by popular
vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: House of Representatives - last held on 5 November 2007
(next to be held in 2012)
election results: House of Representatives - percent of vote - PNM
46%, UNC 29.7%; seats by party - PNM 26, UNC 15
note: Tobago has a unicameral House of Assembly with 12 members
serving four-year terms; last election held in January 2005; seats
by party - PNM 11, DAC 1


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court of Judicature (comprised of the High Court of Justice
and the Court of Appeals; the chief justice is appointed by the
president after consultation with the prime minister and the leader
of the opposition; other justices are appointed by the president on
the advice of the Judicial and Legal Service Commission); High Court
of Justice; Caribbean Court of Appeals member; Court of Appeals; the
highest court of appeal is the Privy Council in London


Political parties and leaders:

Congress of the People [Winston DOOKERAN]; Democratic Action
Congress or DAC [Hochoy CHARLES] (only active in Tobago); Democratic
National Alliance or DNA [Gerald YETMING] (coalition of NAR, DDPT,
MND); Movement for National Development or MND [Garvin NICHOLAS];
National Alliance for Reconstruction or NAR [Dr. Carson CHARLES];
People's National Movement or PNM [Patrick MANNING]; United National
Congress or UNC [Basdeo PANDAY]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Jamaat-al Muslimeen [Yasin BAKR]


International organization participation:

ACP, C, Caricom, CDB, FAO, G-24, G-77, IADB, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM,
IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, ISO, ITSO,
ITU, ITUC, LAES, MIGA, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Glenda MOREAN-PHILLIP
chancery: 1708 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036
telephone: [1] (202) 467-6490
FAX: [1] (202) 785-3130
consulate(s) general: Miami, New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Roy L. AUSTIN
embassy: 15 Queen's Park West, Port-of-Spain
mailing address: P. O. Box 752, Port-of-Spain
telephone: [1] (868) 622-6371 through 6376
FAX: [1] (868) 822-5905


Flag description:

red with a white-edged black diagonal band from the upper hoist side
to the lower fly side


Economy
Trinidad and Tobago



Economy - overview:

Trinidad and Tobago has earned a reputation as an excellent
investment site for international businesses and has one of the
highest growth rates and per capita incomes in Latin America. Recent
growth has been fueled by investments in liquefied natural gas
(LNG), petrochemicals, and steel. Additional petrochemical,
aluminum, and plastics projects are in various stages of planning.
Trinidad and Tobago is the leading Caribbean producer of oil and
gas, and its economy is heavily dependent upon these resources but
it also supplies manufactured goods, notably food and beverages, as
well as cement to the Caribbean region. Oil and gas account for
about 40% of GDP and 80% of exports, but only 5% of employment. The
country is also a regional financial center, and tourism is a
growing sector, although it is not proportionately as important as
in many other Caribbean islands. The economy benefits from a growing
trade surplus. Economic growth reached 12.6% in 2006 and 5.5% in
2007 as prices for oil, petrochemicals, and LNG remained high, and
as foreign direct investment continued to grow to support expanded
capacity in the energy sector.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$26.79 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$20.7 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

5.5% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$25,400 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 0.6%
industry: 62%
services: 37.5% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

622,000 (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture 4%, manufacturing, mining, and quarrying 12.9%,
construction and utilities 17.5%, services 65.6% (2006 est.)


Unemployment rate:

4.5% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

17% (2007 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Investment (gross fixed):

16.7% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $6.332 billion
expenditures: $5.969 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 October - 30 September


Public debt:

27.9% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

7.9% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

10% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

11.75% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$2.646 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$5.707 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$3.721 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

cocoa, rice, citrus, coffee, vegetables; poultry


Industries:

petroleum, chemicals, tourism, food processing, cement, beverage,
cotton textiles


Industrial production growth rate:

6.5% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

7.704 billion kWh (2007)


Electricity - consumption:

7.083 billion kWh (2007)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 99.8%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0.2% (2001)


Oil - production:

163,300 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

28,730 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

218,800 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

72,780 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

728.3 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

39 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

20.8 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

18.1 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

531.5 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$5.378 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$13.39 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

petroleum and petroleum products, liquefied natural gas (LNG),
methanol, ammonia, urea, steel products, beverages, cereal and
cereal products, sugar, cocoa, coffee, citrus fruit, vegetables,
flowers


Exports - partners:

US 57.5%, Jamaica 6.5%, Spain 3.9% (2007)


Imports:

$7.67 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

mineral fuels, lubricants, machinery, transportation equipment,
manufactured goods, food, live animals, grain


Imports - partners:

US 28.2%, Brazil 11%, Venezuela 8.2%, Colombia 5.4%, Gabon 4.9%,
China 4.2% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$200,000 (2007 est.)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$6.745 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$2.869 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$12.44 billion (2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$1.419 billion (2007)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$15.57 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

Trinidad and Tobago dollar (TTD)


Currency code:

TTD


Exchange rates:

Trinidad and Tobago dollars (TTD) per US dollar - 6.3275 (2007),
6.3107 (2006), 6.2842 (2005), 6.299 (2004), 6.2951 (2003)


Communications
Trinidad and Tobago



Telephones - main lines in use:

323,800 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

1.008 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: excellent international service; good local
service
domestic: mobile-cellular teledensity exceeds 125 telephones per 100
persons
international: country code - 1-868; submarine cable systems provide
connectivity to US and parts of the Caribbean and South America;
satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean); tropospheric
scatter to Barbados and Guyana


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 4, FM 18, shortwave 0 (2001)


Radios:

680,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

6 (2005)


Televisions:

425,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.tt


Internet hosts:

155,722 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

17 (2000)


Internet users:

430,800 (2007)


Transportation
Trinidad and Tobago



Airports:

6 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 3
over 3,047 m: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 3
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 2 (2007)


Pipelines:

condensate 245 km; gas 1,320 km; oil 563 km (2007)


Roadways:

total: 8,320 km
paved: 4,252 km
unpaved: 4,068 km (2000)


Merchant marine:

total: 9
by type: passenger 2, passenger/cargo 5, petroleum tanker 2
foreign-owned: 1 (US 1)
registered in other countries: 2 (Bahamas 1, unknown 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Point Fortin, Point Lisas, Port-of-Spain


Military
Trinidad and Tobago



Military branches:

Trinidad and Tobago Defense Force (TTDF): Trinidad and Tobago
Regiment, Coast Guard, Air Guard (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service (16 years of age with
parental consent); no conscription (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 301,561
females age 16-49: 264,225 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 215,310
females age 16-49: 180,526 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 8,671
female: 8,153 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

0.3% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Trinidad and Tobago



Disputes - international:

in April 2006, the Permanent Court of Arbitration issued a decision
that delimited a maritime boundary with Trinidad and Tobago and
compelled Barbados to enter a fishing agreement that limited
Barbadian fishermen's catches of flying fish in Trinidad and
Tobago's exclusive economic zone; in 2005, Barbados and Trinidad and
Tobago agreed to compulsory international arbitration under UNCLOS
challenging whether the northern limit of Trinidad and Tobago's and
Venezuela's maritime boundary extends into Barbadian waters; Guyana
has also expressed its intention to include itself in the
arbitration as the Trinidad and Tobago-Venezuela maritime boundary
may extend into its waters as well


Illicit drugs:

transshipment point for South American drugs destined for the US and
Europe; producer of cannabis



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Tunisia

Introduction
Tunisia



Background:

Rivalry between French and Italian interests in Tunisia culminated
in a French invasion in 1881 and the creation of a protectorate.
Agitation for independence in the decades following World War I was
finally successful in getting the French to recognize Tunisia as an
independent state in 1956. The country's first president, Habib
BOURGUIBA, established a strict one-party state. He dominated the
country for 31 years, repressing Islamic fundamentalism and
establishing rights for women unmatched by any other Arab nation. In
November 1987, BOURGUIBA was removed from office and replaced by
Zine el Abidine BEN ALI in a bloodless coup. BEN ALI is currently
serving his fourth consecutive five-year term as president; the next
elections are scheduled for October 2009. Tunisia has long taken a
moderate, non-aligned stance in its foreign relations. Domestically,
it has sought to defuse rising pressure for a more open political
society.


Geography
Tunisia



Location:

Northern Africa, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between Algeria
and Libya


Geographic coordinates:

34 00 N, 9 00 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 163,610 sq km
land: 155,360 sq km
water: 8,250 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than Georgia


Land boundaries:

total: 1,424 km
border countries: Algeria 965 km, Libya 459 km


Coastline:

1,148 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 12 nm


Climate:

temperate in north with mild, rainy winters and hot, dry summers;
desert in south


Terrain:

mountains in north; hot, dry central plain; semiarid south merges
into the Sahara


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Shatt al Gharsah -17 m
highest point: Jebel ech Chambi 1,544 m


Natural resources:

petroleum, phosphates, iron ore, lead, zinc, salt


Land use:

arable land: 17.05%
permanent crops: 13.08%
other: 69.87% (2005)


Irrigated land:

3,940 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

4.6 cu km (2003)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 2.64 cu km/yr (14%/4%/82%)
per capita: 261 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

NA


Environment - current issues:

toxic and hazardous waste disposal is ineffective and poses health
risks; water pollution from raw sewage; limited natural fresh water
resources; deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Marine Life Conservation


Geography - note:

strategic location in central Mediterranean; Malta and Tunisia are
discussing the commercial exploitation of the continental shelf
between their countries, particularly for oil exploration


People
Tunisia



Population:

10,383,577 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 23.2% (male 1,246,105/female 1,167,379)
15-64 years: 69.7% (male 3,638,062/female 3,595,254)
65 years and over: 7.1% (male 345,590/female 391,187) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 28.8 years
male: 28.2 years
female: 29.3 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.989% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

15.5 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

5.17 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-0.44 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.07 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.07 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.88 male(s)/female
total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 23.43 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 25.7 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 20.98 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 75.56 years
male: 73.79 years
female: 77.46 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.73 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

less than 0.1% (2005 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

1,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 200 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Tunisian(s)
adjective: Tunisian


Ethnic groups:

Arab 98%, European 1%, Jewish and other 1%


Religions:

Muslim 98%, Christian 1%, Jewish and other 1%


Languages:

Arabic (official and one of the languages of commerce), French
(commerce)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 74.3%
male: 83.4%
female: 65.3% (2004 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 14 years
male: 13 years
female: 14 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

7.3% of GDP (2005)


Government
Tunisia



Country name:

conventional long form: Tunisian Republic
conventional short form: Tunisia
local long form: Al Jumhuriyah at Tunisiyah
local short form: Tunis


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Tunis
geographic coordinates: 36 48 N, 10 11 E
time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

24 governorates; Ariana (Aryanah), Beja (Bajah), Ben Arous (Bin
'Arus), Bizerte (Banzart), Gabes (Qabis), Gafsa (Qafsah), Jendouba
(Jundubah), Kairouan (Al Qayrawan), Kasserine (Al Qasrayn), Kebili
(Qibili), Kef (Al Kaf), Mahdia (Al Mahdiyah), Manouba (Manubah),
Medenine (Madanin), Monastir (Al Munastir), Nabeul (Nabul), Sfax
(Safaqis), Sidi Bou Zid (Sidi Bu Zayd), Siliana (Silyanah), Sousse
(Susah), Tataouine (Tatawin), Tozeur (Tawzar), Tunis, Zaghouan
(Zaghwan)


Independence:

20 March 1956 (from France)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 20 March (1956); also the anniversary of BEN ALI's
assumption of the presidency, 7 November (1987)


Constitution:

1 June 1959; amended 1988, 2002


Legal system:

based on French civil law system and Islamic law; some judicial
review of legislative acts in the Supreme Court in joint session;
has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal except for active government security
forces (including the police and the military), people with mental
disabilities, people who have served more than three months in
prison (criminal cases only), and people given a suspended sentence
of more than six months


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Zine el Abidine BEN ALI (since 7 November
1987)
head of government: Prime Minister Mohamed GHANNOUCHI (since 17
November 1999)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(no term limits); election last held on 24 October 2004 (next to be
held in October 2009); prime minister appointed by the president
election results: President Zine El Abidine BEN ALI reelected for a
fourth term; percent of vote - Zine El Abidine BEN ALI 94.5%,
Mohamed BOUCHIHA 3.8%, Mohamed Ali HALOUANI 1%


Legislative branch:

bicameral system consists of the Chamber of Deputies or Majlis
al-Nuwaab (189 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve
five-year terms) and the Chamber of Advisors (126 seats; 85 members
elected by municipal counselors, deputies, mayors, and professional
associations and trade unions; 41 members are presidential
appointees; members serve six-year terms)
elections: Chamber of Deputies - last held on 24 October 2004 (next
to be held in October 2009); Chamber of Advisors - last held on 3
July 2005 (next to be held in July 2011)
election results: Chamber of Deputies - percent of vote by party -
NA; seats by party - RCD 152, MDS 14, PUP 11, UDU 7, Al-Tajdid 3,
PSL 2; Chamber of Advisors - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - RCD 71 (14 trade union seats vacant (due to boycott))


Judicial branch:

Court of Cassation or Cour de Cassation


Political parties and leaders:

Al-Tajdid Movement [Ahmed IBRAHIM]; Constitutional Democratic Rally
Party (Rassemblement Constitutionnel Democratique) or RCD (official
ruling party) [President Zine El Abidine BEN ALI]; Democratic Forum
for Labor and Liberties or FDTL [Mustapha Ben JAFAAR]; Green Party
for Progress or PVP [Mongi KHAMASSI]; Liberal Social Party or PSL
[Mondher THABET]; Movement of Socialist Democrats or MDS [Ismail
BOULAHYA]; Popular Unity Party or PUP [Mohamed BOUCHIHA];
Progressive Democratic Party [Maya JERIBI]; Unionist Democratic
Union or UDU [Ahmed INOUBLI]; note - the Islamist party, Al Nahda
(Renaissance), is outlawed


Political pressure groups and leaders:

18 October Group [collective leadership]; Tunisian League for Human
Rights or LTDH [Mokhtar TRIFI]


International organization participation:

ABEDA, AfDB, AFESD, AMF, AMU, AU, BSEC (observer), FAO, G-77, IAEA,
IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF,
IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAS, MIGA,
MONUC, NAM, OAPEC (suspended), OAS (observer), OIC, OIF, OPCW, OSCE
(partner), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCO,
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge D'Affaires Tarek Ben
YOUSSEF
chancery: 1515 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20005
telephone: [1] (202) 862-1850
FAX: [1] (202) 862-1858


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Robert F. GODEC
embassy: Zone Nord-Est des Berges du Lac Nord de Tunis 1053
mailing address: use embassy street address
telephone: [216] 71 107-000
FAX: [216] 71 963-263


Flag description:

red with a white disk in the center bearing a red crescent nearly
encircling a red five-pointed star; the crescent and star are
traditional symbols of Islam


Economy
Tunisia



Economy - overview:

Tunisia has a diverse economy, with important agricultural, mining,
tourism, and manufacturing sectors. Governmental control of economic
affairs while still heavy has gradually lessened over the past
decade with increasing privatization, simplification of the tax
structure, and a prudent approach to debt. Progressive social
policies also have helped raise living conditions in Tunisia
relative to the region. Real growth, which averaged almost 5% over
the past decade, reached 6.3% in 2007 because of development in
non-textile manufacturing, a recovery in agricultural production,
and strong growth in the services sector. However, Tunisia will need
to reach even higher growth levels to create sufficient employment
opportunities for an already large number of unemployed as well as
the growing population of university graduates. Broader
privatization, further liberalization of the investment code to
increase foreign investment, improvements in government efficiency,
and reduction of the trade deficit are among the challenges ahead.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$76.07 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$35.01 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6.3% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$7,400 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 11.6%
industry: 25.7%
services: 62.8% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

3.593 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 55%
industry: 23%
services: 22% (1995 est.)


Unemployment rate:

14.1% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

7.4% (2005 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.3%
highest 10%: 31.5% (2000)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

40 (2005 est.)


Investment (gross fixed):

23.6% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $8.466 billion
expenditures: $9.475 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

55.4% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

3.1% (2007 est.)


Stock of money:

$9.491 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$13.56 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$25.23 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

olives, olive oil, grain, tomatoes, citrus fruit, sugar beets,
dates, almonds; beef, dairy products


Industries:

petroleum, mining (particularly phosphate and iron ore), tourism,
textiles, footwear, agribusiness, beverages


Industrial production growth rate:

7.2% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

12.65 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

10.75 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

135 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 99.5%
hydro: 0.5%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

86,210 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

91,110 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

73,790 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

89,130 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

400 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

2.55 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

3.85 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2005)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

65.13 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$905 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$15.15 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

clothing, semi-finished goods and textiles, agricultural products,
mechanical goods, phosphates and chemicals, hydrocarbons, electrical
equipment


Exports - partners:

France 31.3%, Italy 21%, Germany 8.5%, Spain 5.5%, Libya 5.5% (2007)


Imports:

$18.02 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

textiles, machinery and equipment, hydrocarbons, chemicals,
foodstuffs


Imports - partners:

France 23.8%, Italy 21.9%, Germany 9.7%, Spain 5%, Libya 4.4% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$376.5 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$7.854 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$19.27 billion (December 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$26.22 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$118 million (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$4.446 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

Tunisian dinar (TND)


Currency code:

TND


Exchange rates:

Tunisian dinars (TND) per US dollar - 1.2776 (2007), 1.331 (2006),
1.2974 (2005), 1.2455 (2004), 1.2885 (2003)


Communications
Tunisia



Telephones - main lines in use:

1.273 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

7.842 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: above the African average and continuing to be
upgraded; key centers are Sfax, Sousse, Bizerte, and Tunis; Internet
access available
domestic: in an effort jumpstart expansion of the fixed-line
network, the government has awarded a concession to build and
operate a VSAT network with international connectivity; competition
between the two mobile-cellular service providers has resulted in
lower activation and usage charges and a strong surge in
subscribership; expansion of mobile-cellular services to include
multimedia messaging and e-mail and Internet to mobile phone
services also leading to a surge in subscribership; overall
fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity is about 90 telephones
per 100 persons
international: country code - 216; a landing point for the
SEA-ME-WE-4 submarine cable system that provides links to Europe,
Middle East, and Asia; satellite earth stations - 1 Intelsat
(Atlantic Ocean) and 1 Arabsat; coaxial cable and microwave radio
relay to Algeria and Libya; participant in Medarabtel; 2
international gateway digital switches


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 7, FM 38, shortwave 2 (2007)


Radios:

2.06 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

26 (plus 76 repeaters) (1995)


Televisions:

920,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.tn


Internet hosts:

376 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

1.722 million (2007)


Transportation
Tunisia



Airports:

30 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 14
over 3,047 m: 3
2,438 to 3,047 m: 6
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 3 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 16
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 7
under 914 m: 7 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 2,665 km; oil 1,235 km; refined products 353 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 2,153 km
standard gauge: 471 km 1.435-m gauge
narrow gauge: 1,674 km 1.000-m gauge (65 km electrified)
dual gauge: 8 km 1.435 m and 1.000-m gauges (three rails) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 19,232 km
paved: 12,655 km (includes 262 km of expressways)
unpaved: 6,577 km (2004)


Merchant marine:

total: 7
by type: bulk carrier 1, cargo 1, chemical tanker 1, passenger/cargo
4
registered in other countries: 1 (Panama 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Bizerte, Gabes, La Goulette, Rades, Sfax, Skhira


Military
Tunisia



Military branches:

Army, Navy, Republic of Tunisia Air Force (Al-Quwwat al-Jawwiya
al-Jamahiriyah At'tunisia) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

20 years of age for compulsory military service; conscript service
obligation - 12 months; 18 years of age for voluntary military
service (2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,992,249
females age 16-49: 2,912,819 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,539,962
females age 16-49: 2,465,295 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 101,794
female: 95,198 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.4% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Tunisia



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Turkey

Introduction
Turkey



Background:

Modern Turkey was founded in 1923 from the Anatolian remnants of the
defeated Ottoman Empire by national hero Mustafa KEMAL, who was
later honored with the title Ataturk or "Father of the Turks." Under
his authoritarian leadership, the country adopted wide-ranging
social, legal, and political reforms. After a period of one-party
rule, an experiment with multi-party politics led to the 1950
election victory of the opposition Democratic Party and the peaceful
transfer of power. Since then, Turkish political parties have
multiplied, but democracy has been fractured by periods of
instability and intermittent military coups (1960, 1971, 1980),
which in each case eventually resulted in a return of political
power to civilians. In 1997, the military again helped engineer the
ouster - popularly dubbed a "post-modern coup" - of the then
Islamic-oriented government. Turkey intervened militarily on Cyprus
in 1974 to prevent a Greek takeover of the island and has since
acted as patron state to the "Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus,"
which only Turkey recognizes. A separatist insurgency begun in 1984
by the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) - now known as the People's
Congress of Kurdistan or Kongra-Gel (KGK) - has dominated the
Turkish military's attention and claimed more than 30,000 lives.
After the capture of the group's leader in 1999, the insurgents
largely withdrew from Turkey mainly to northern Iraq. In 2004, KGK
announced an end to its ceasefire and attacks attributed to the KGK
increased. Turkey joined the UN in 1945 and in 1952 it became a
member of NATO. In 1964, Turkey became an associate member of the
European Community; over the past decade, it has undertaken many
reforms to strengthen its democracy and economy enabling it to begin
accession membership talks with the European Union.


Geography
Turkey



Location:

Southeastern Europe and Southwestern Asia (that portion of Turkey
west of the Bosporus is geographically part of Europe), bordering
the Black Sea, between Bulgaria and Georgia, and bordering the
Aegean Sea and the Mediterranean Sea, between Greece and Syria


Geographic coordinates:

39 00 N, 35 00 E


Map references:

Middle East


Area:

total: 780,580 sq km
land: 770,760 sq km
water: 9,820 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than Texas


Land boundaries:

total: 2,648 km
border countries: Armenia 268 km, Azerbaijan 9 km, Bulgaria 240 km,
Georgia 252 km, Greece 206 km, Iran 499 km, Iraq 352 km, Syria 822 km


Coastline:

7,200 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 6 nm in the Aegean Sea; 12 nm in Black Sea and in
Mediterranean Sea
exclusive economic zone: in Black Sea only: to the maritime boundary
agreed upon with the former USSR


Climate:

temperate; hot, dry summers with mild, wet winters; harsher in
interior


Terrain:

high central plateau (Anatolia); narrow coastal plain; several
mountain ranges


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Mediterranean Sea 0 m
highest point: Mount Ararat 5,166 m


Natural resources:

coal, iron ore, copper, chromium, antimony, mercury, gold, barite,
borate, celestite (strontium), emery, feldspar, limestone,
magnesite, marble, perlite, pumice, pyrites (sulfur), clay, arable
land, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 29.81%
permanent crops: 3.39%
other: 66.8% (2005)


Irrigated land:

52,150 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

234 cu km (2003)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 39.78 cu km/yr (15%/11%/74%)
per capita: 544 cu m/yr (2001)


Natural hazards:

severe earthquakes, especially in northern Turkey, along an arc
extending from the Sea of Marmara to Lake Van


Environment - current issues:

water pollution from dumping of chemicals and detergents; air
pollution, particularly in urban areas; deforestation; concern for
oil spills from increasing Bosporus ship traffic


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate
Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone
Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification


Geography - note:

strategic location controlling the Turkish Straits (Bosporus, Sea of
Marmara, Dardanelles) that link Black and Aegean Seas; Mount Ararat,
the legendary landing place of Noah's ark, is in the far eastern
portion of the country


People
Turkey



Population:

71,892,808 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 24.4% (male 8,937,515/female 8,608,375)
15-64 years: 68.6% (male 25,030,793/female 24,253,312)
65 years and over: 7% (male 2,307,236/female 2,755,576) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 29 years
male: 28.8 years
female: 29.2 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.013% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

16.15 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

6.02 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.84 male(s)/female
total population: 1.02 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 36.98 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 40.44 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 33.34 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 73.14 years
male: 70.67 years
female: 75.73 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.87 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

less than 0.1%; note - no country specific models provided (2001
est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Turk(s)
adjective: Turkish


Ethnic groups:

Turkish 80%, Kurdish 20% (estimated)


Religions:

Muslim 99.8% (mostly Sunni), other 0.2% (mostly Christians and Jews)


Languages:

Turkish (official), Kurdish, Dimli (or Zaza), Azeri, Kabardian
note: there is also a substantial Gagauz population in the European
part of Turkey


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 87.4%
male: 95.3%
female: 79.6% (2004 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 11 years
male: 12 years
female: 11 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

4% of GDP (2004)


Government
Turkey



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Turkey
conventional short form: Turkey
local long form: Turkiye Cumhuriyeti
local short form: Turkiye


Government type:

republican parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Ankara
geographic coordinates: 39 56 N, 32 52 E
time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

81 provinces (iller, singular - ili); Adana, Adiyaman,
Afyonkarahisar, Agri, Aksaray, Amasya, Ankara, Antalya, Ardahan,
Artvin, Aydin, Balikesir, Bartin, Batman, Bayburt, Bilecik, Bingol,
Bitlis, Bolu, Burdur, Bursa, Canakkale, Cankiri, Corum, Denizli,
Diyarbakir, Duzce, Edirne, Elazig, Erzincan, Erzurum, Eskisehir,
Gaziantep, Giresun, Gumushane, Hakkari, Hatay, Icel (Mersin), Igdir,
Isparta, Istanbul, Izmir (Smyrna), Kahramanmaras, Karabuk, Karaman,
Kars, Kastamonu, Kayseri, Kilis, Kirikkale, Kirklareli, Kirsehir,
Kocaeli, Konya, Kutahya, Malatya, Manisa, Mardin, Mugla, Mus,
Nevsehir, Nigde, Ordu, Osmaniye, Rize, Sakarya, Samsun, Sanliurfa,
Siirt, Sinop, Sirnak, Sivas, Tekirdag, Tokat, Trabzon (Trebizond),
Tunceli, Usak, Van, Yalova, Yozgat, Zonguldak


Independence:

29 October 1923 (successor state to the Ottoman Empire)


National holiday:

Republic Day, 29 October (1923)


Constitution:

7 November 1982


Legal system:

civil law system derived from various European continental legal
systems; note - member of the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR),
although Turkey claims limited derogations on the ratified European
Convention on Human Rights; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Abdullah GUL (since 28 August 2007)
head of government: Prime Minister Recep Tayyip ERDOGAN (since 14
March 2003); Deputy Prime Minister Cemil CICEK (since 29 August
2007); Deputy Prime Minister Hayati YAZICI (since 29 August 2007);
Deputy Prime Minister Nazim EKREN (since 29 August 2007)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
nomination of the prime minister
elections: president elected by the National Assembly for one
seven-year terms; prime minister appointed by the president from
among members of parliament
election results: Abdullah GUL received 339 votes in the third round
of voting on 28 August 2007, after failing to garner the two thirds
vote required by law in the first two rounds
note: president-elect must have a two-thirds majority of the
National Assembly on the first two ballots and a simple majority on
the third ballot


Legislative branch:

unicameral Grand National Assembly of Turkey or Turkiye Buyuk Millet
Meclisi (550 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
five-year terms)
elections: last held on 22 July 2007 (next to be held on November
2012)
election results: percent of vote by party - AKP 46.7%, CHP 20.8%,
MHP 14.3%, independents 5.2%, and other 13.0%; seats by party - AKP
341, CHP 112, MHP 71, independents 26; note - seats by party as of
17 December 2007 - AKP 340, CHP 87, MHP 70, DTP 20, DSP 13,
independents 6, other 12, vacant 2 (DTP entered parliament as
independents; DSP entered parliament on CHP's party list); only
parties surpassing the 10% threshold are entitled to parliamentary
seats


Judicial branch:

Constitutional Court; High Court of Appeals (Yargitay); Council of
State (Danistay); Court of Accounts (Sayistay); Military High Court
of Appeals; Military High Administrative Court


Political parties and leaders:

Anavatan Partisi (Motherland Party) or Anavatan [Erkan MUMCU];
Democratic Left Party or DSP [Mehmet Zeki SEZER]; Democratic Society
Party or DTP [Nurettin DEMIRTAS]; Felicity Party or SP [Recai KUTAN]
(sometimes translated as Contentment Party); Justice and Development
Party or AKP [Recep Tayyip ERDOGAN]; Nationalist Action Party or MHP
[Devlet BAHCELI] (sometimes translated as Nationalist Movement
Party); People's Rise Party (Halkin Yukselisi Partisi) or HYP [Yasar
Nuri OZTURK]; Republican People's Party or CHP [Deniz BAYKAL];
Social Democratic People's Party or SHP [Murat KARAYALCIN]; True
Path Party or DYP [Mehmet AGAR] (sometimes translated as Correct Way
Party); Young Party or GP [Cem Cengiz UZAN]
note: the parties listed above are some of the more significant of
the 49 parties that Turkey had on 1 December 2004


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Confederation of Public Sector Unions or KESK [Ismail Hakki TOMBUL];
Confederation of Revolutionary Workers Unions or DISK [Suleyman
CELEBI]; Independent Industrialists' and Businessmen's Association
or MUSIAD [Omer BOLAT]; Moral Rights Workers Union or Hak-Is [Salim
USLU]; Turkish Confederation of Employers' Unions or TISK [Tugurl
KUDATGOBILIK]; Turkish Confederation of Labor or Turk-Is [Salih
KILIC]; Turkish Confederation of Tradesmen and Craftsmen or TESK
[Dervis GUNDAY]; Turkish Industrialists' and Businessmen's
Association or TUSIAD [Omer SABANCI]; Turkish Union of Chambers of
Commerce and Commodity Exchanges or TOBB [M. Rifat HISARCIKLIOGLU]


International organization participation:

ADB (nonregional members), Australia Group, BIS, BSEC, CE, CERN
(observer), EAPC, EBRD, ECO, EU (applicant), FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICC, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NATO,
NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OIC, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, SECI, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNMIS, UNOCI, UNOMIG, UNRWA,
UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WEU (associate), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Nabi SENSOY
chancery: 2525 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 612-6700
FAX: [1] (202) 612-6744
consulate(s) general: Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Ross WILSON
embassy: 110 Ataturk Boulevard, Kavaklidere, 06100 Ankara
mailing address: PSC 93, Box 5000, APO AE 09823
telephone: [90] (312) 455-5555
FAX: [90] (312) 467-0019
consulate(s) general: Istanbul
consulate(s): Adana; note - there is a Consular Agent in Izmir


Flag description:

red with a vertical white crescent (the closed portion is toward the
hoist side) and white five-pointed star centered just outside the
crescent opening


Economy
Turkey



Economy - overview:

Turkey's dynamic economy is a complex mix of modern industry and
commerce along with a traditional agriculture sector that still
accounts for more than 35% of employment. It has a strong and
rapidly growing private sector, yet the state still plays a major
role in basic industry, banking, transport, and communication. The
largest industrial sector is textiles and clothing, which accounts
for one-third of industrial employment; it faces stiff competition
in international markets with the end of the global quota system.
However, other sectors, notably the automotive and electronics
industries, are rising in importance within Turkey's export mix.
Real GNP growth has exceeded 6% in many years, but this strong
expansion has been interrupted by sharp declines in output in 1994,
1999, and 2001. The economy is turning around with the
implementation of economic reforms, and 2004 GDP growth reached 9%,
followed by roughly 5% annual growth from 2005-07. Inflation fell to
7.7% in 2005 - a 30-year low - but climbed back to 8.5% in 2007.
Despite the strong economic gains from 2002-07, which were largely
due to renewed investor interest in emerging markets, IMF backing,
and tighter fiscal policy, the economy is still burdened by a high
current account deficit and high external debt. Further economic and
judicial reforms and prospective EU membership are expected to boost
foreign direct investment. The stock value of FDI currently stands
at about $85 billion. Privatization sales are currently approaching
$21 billion. Oil began to flow through the Baku-Tblisi-Ceyhan
pipeline in May 2006, marking a major milestone that will bring up
to 1 million barrels per day from the Caspian to market. In 2007,
Turkish financial markets weathered significant domestic political
turmoil, including turbulence sparked by controversy over the
selection of former Foreign Minister Abdullah GUL as Turkey's 11th
president. Economic fundamentals are sound, marked by strong
economic growth and foreign direct investment. Turkey's high current
account deficit leaves the economy vulnerable to destabilizing
shifts in investor confidence, however.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$853.9 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$663.4 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

4.5% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$12,000 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 8.9%
industry: 28.3%
services: 62.8% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

23.53 million
note: about 1.2 million Turks work abroad (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 35.9%
industry: 22.8%
services: 41.2% (3rd quarter, 2004)


Unemployment rate:

9.9% plus underemployment of 4% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

20% (2002)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2%
highest 10%: 34.1% (2003)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

43.6 (2003)


Investment (gross fixed):

21.5% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $145.5 billion
expenditures: $156.1 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

38.9% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

8.7% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

25% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$64.43 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$254.3 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$358.1 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

tobacco, cotton, grain, olives, sugar beets, pulse, citrus; livestock


Industries:

textiles, food processing, autos, electronics, mining (coal,
chromite, copper, boron), steel, petroleum, construction, lumber,
paper


Industrial production growth rate:

5.4% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

181.6 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

141.5 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

2.576 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

863 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 79.3%
hydro: 20.4%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0.3% (2001)


Oil - production:

42,800 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

676,600 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

114,600 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

714,100 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

300 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

893 million cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

36.6 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

31 million cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

35.83 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

8.495 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$37.58 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$115.3 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

apparel, foodstuffs, textiles, metal manufactures, transport
equipment


Exports - partners:

Germany 11.2%, UK 8.1%, Italy 7%, France 5.6%, Russia 4.4%, Spain
4.3% (2007)


Imports:

$162 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery, chemicals, semi-finished goods, fuels, transport equipment


Imports - partners:

Russia 13.8%, Germany 10.3%, China 7.8%, Italy 5.9%, US 4.8%, France
4.6% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

ODA, $464 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$76.51 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$247.1 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$106.4 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$11.35 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$162.4 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

Turkish lira (TRY); old Turkish lira (TRL) before 1 January 2005


Currency code:

TRL, YTL


Exchange rates:

Turkish liras (TRY) per US dollar - 1.319 (2007), 1.4286 (2006),
1.3436 (2005), 1.4255 (2004), 1.5009 (2003)
note: on 1 January 2005 the old Turkish lira (TRL) was converted to
new Turkish lira (TRY) at a rate of 1,000,000 old to 1 new Turkish
lira


Communications
Turkey



Telephones - main lines in use:

18.413 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

61.976 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: undergoing rapid modernization and expansion
especially with cellular telephones
domestic: additional digital exchanges are permitting a rapid
increase in subscribers; the construction of a network of
technologically advanced intercity trunk lines, using both
fiber-optic cable and digital microwave radio relay, is facilitating
communication between urban centers; remote areas are reached by a
domestic satellite system; the number of subscribers to
mobile-cellular telephone service is growing rapidly
international: country code - 90; international service is provided
by the SEA-ME-WE-3 submarine cable and by submarine fiber-optic
cables in the Mediterranean and Black Seas that link Turkey with
Italy, Greece, Israel, Bulgaria, Romania, and Russia; satellite
earth stations - 12 Intelsat; mobile satellite terminals - 328 in
the Inmarsat and Eutelsat systems (2002)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 16, FM 107, shortwave 6 (2001)


Radios:

11.3 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

635 (plus 2,934 repeaters) (1995)


Televisions:

20.9 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.tr


Internet hosts:

2.667 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

50 (2001)


Internet users:

13.15 million (2006)


Transportation
Turkey



Airports:

117 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 90
over 3,047 m: 15
2,438 to 3,047 m: 33
1,524 to 2,437 m: 19
914 to 1,523 m: 19
under 914 m: 4 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 27
over 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 7
under 914 m: 17 (2007)


Heliports:

18 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 7,511 km; oil 3,636 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 8,697 km
standard gauge: 8,697 km 1.435-m gauge (1,920 km electrified) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 426,951 km (includes 1,987 km of expressways) (2006)


Waterways:

1,200 km (2005)


Merchant marine:

total: 612
by type: bulk carrier 101, cargo 281, chemical tanker 70,
combination ore/oil 1, container 35, liquefied gas 7, passenger 4,
passenger/cargo 51, petroleum tanker 31, refrigerated cargo 1, roll
on/roll off 28, specialized tanker 2
foreign-owned: 8 (Cyprus 2, Germany 1, Greece 1, Italy 3, UAE 1)
registered in other countries: 595 (Albania 1, Antigua and Barbuda
6, Bahamas 8, Belize 15, Cambodia 26, Comoros 8, Dominica 5, Georgia
14, Greece 1, Isle of Man 2, Italy 1, Kiribati 1, Liberia 7, Malta
176, Marshall Islands 50, Moldova 3, Netherlands 1, Netherlands
Antilles 10, Panama 94, Russia 80, Saint Kitts and Nevis 35, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines 20, Sierra Leone 15, Slovakia 10, Tuvalu
2, UK 2, unknown 2) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Aliaga, Diliskelesi, Izmir, Kocaeli (Izmit), Mercin Limani, Nemrut
Limani


Military
Turkey



Military branches:

Turkish Armed Forces (TSK): Turkish Land Forces (Turk Kara
Kuvvetleri, TKK), Turkish Naval Forces (Turk Deniz Kuvvetleri, TDK;
includes naval air and naval infantry), Turkish Air Force (Turk Hava
Kuvvetleri, THK) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

20 years of age (2004)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 20,213,205
females age 16-49: 19,432,688 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 17,011,635
females age 16-49: 16,433,364 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 660,452
female: 638,527 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

5.3% of GDP (2005 est.)


Military - note:

a "National Security Policy Document" adopted in October 2005
increases the Turkish Armed Forces (TSK) role in internal security,
augmenting the General Directorate of Security and Gendarmerie
General Command (Jandarma); the TSK leadership continues to play a
key role in politics and considers itself guardian of Turkey's
secular state; in April 2007, it warned the ruling party about any
pro-Islamic appointments; despite on-going negotiations on EU
accession since October 2005, progress has been limited in
establishing required civilian supremacy over the military; primary
domestic threats are listed as fundamentalism (with the definition
in some dispute with the civilian government), separatism (the
Kurdish problem), and the extreme left wing; Ankara strongly opposed
establishment of an autonomous Kurdish region; an overhaul of the
Turkish Land Forces Command (TLFC) taking place under the "Force
2014" program is to produce 20-30% smaller, more highly trained
forces characterized by greater mobility and firepower and capable
of joint and combined operations; the TLFC has taken on increasing
international peacekeeping responsibilities, and took charge of a
NATO International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) command in
Afghanistan in April 2007; the Turkish Navy is a regional naval
power that wants to develop the capability to project power beyond
Turkey's coastal waters; the Navy is heavily involved in NATO,
multinational, and UN operations; its roles include control of
territorial waters and security for sea lines of communications; the
Turkish Air Force adopted an "Aerospace and Missile Defense Concept"
in 2002 and has initiated project work on an integrated missile
defense system; Air Force priorities include attaining a modern
deployable, survivable, and sustainable force structure, and
establishing a sustainable command and control system (2008)


Transnational Issues
Turkey



Disputes - international:

complex maritime, air, and territorial disputes with Greece in the
Aegean Sea; status of north Cyprus question remains; Syria and Iraq
protest Turkish hydrological projects to control upper Euphrates
waters; Turkey has expressed concern over the status of Kurds in
Iraq; border with Armenia remains closed over Nagorno-Karabakh


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

IDPs: 1-1.2 million (fighting 1984-99 between Kurdish PKK and
Turkish military; most IDPs in southeastern provinces) (2007)


Illicit drugs:

key transit route for Southwest Asian heroin to Western Europe and,
to a lesser extent, the US - via air, land, and sea routes; major
Turkish and other international trafficking organizations operate
out of Istanbul; laboratories to convert imported morphine base into
heroin exist in remote regions of Turkey and near Istanbul;
government maintains strict controls over areas of legal opium poppy
cultivation and over output of poppy straw concentrate; lax
enforcement of money-laundering controls



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Turkmenistan

Introduction
Turkmenistan



Background:

Eastern Turkmenistan for centuries formed part of the Persian
province of Khurasan; in medieval times Merv (today known as Mary)
was one of the great cities of the Islamic world and an important
stop on the Silk Road. Annexed by Russia between 1865 and 1885,
Turkmenistan became a Soviet republic in 1924. It achieved
independence upon the dissolution of the USSR in 1991. Extensive
hydrocarbon/natural gas reserves could prove a boon to this
underdeveloped country if extraction and delivery projects were to
be expanded. The Turkmenistan Government is actively seeking to
develop alternative petroleum transportation routes to break
Russia's pipeline monopoly. President for Life Saparmurat NYYAZOW
died in December 2006, and Turkmenistan held its first
multi-candidate presidential electoral process in February 2007.
Gurbanguly BERDIMUHAMEDOW, a vice premier under NYYAZOW, emerged as
the country's new president.


Geography
Turkmenistan



Location:

Central Asia, bordering the Caspian Sea, between Iran and Kazakhstan


Geographic coordinates:

40 00 N, 60 00 E


Map references:

Asia


Area:

total: 488,100 sq km
land: 488,100 sq km
water: NEGL


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than California


Land boundaries:

total: 3,736 km
border countries: Afghanistan 744 km, Iran 992 km, Kazakhstan 379
km, Uzbekistan 1,621 km


Coastline:

0 km; note - Turkmenistan borders the Caspian Sea (1,768 km)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

subtropical desert


Terrain:

flat-to-rolling sandy desert with dunes rising to mountains in the
south; low mountains along border with Iran; borders Caspian Sea in
west


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Vpadina Akchanaya -81 m; note - Sarygamysh Koli is a
lake in northern Turkmenistan with a water level that fluctuates
above and below the elevation of Vpadina Akchanaya (the lake has
dropped as low as -110 m)
highest point: Gora Ayribaba 3,139 m


Natural resources:

petroleum, natural gas, sulfur, salt


Land use:

arable land: 4.51%
permanent crops: 0.14%
other: 95.35% (2005)


Irrigated land:

18,000 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

60.9 cu km (1997)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 24.65 cu km/yr (2%/1%/98%)
per capita: 5,104 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

NA


Environment - current issues:

contamination of soil and groundwater with agricultural chemicals,
pesticides; salination, water logging of soil due to poor irrigation
methods; Caspian Sea pollution; diversion of a large share of the
flow of the Amu Darya into irrigation contributes to that river's
inability to replenish the Aral Sea; desertification


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

landlocked; the western and central low-lying desolate portions of
the country make up the great Garagum (Kara-Kum) desert, which
occupies over 80% of the country; eastern part is plateau


People
Turkmenistan



Population:

5,179,571 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 34.2% (male 902,811/female 868,428)
15-64 years: 61.5% (male 1,577,187/female 1,607,353)
65 years and over: 4.3% (male 97,480/female 126,312) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 22.6 years
male: 22 years
female: 23.1 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.596% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

25.07 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

6.11 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-3 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.77 male(s)/female
total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 51.81 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 56.01 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 47.4 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 68.6 years
male: 65.53 years
female: 71.82 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

3.07 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

less than 0.1% (2004 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

fewer than 200 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 100 (2004 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Turkmen(s)
adjective: Turkmenistani


Ethnic groups:

Turkmen 85%, Uzbek 5%, Russian 4%, other 6% (2003)


Religions:

Muslim 89%, Eastern Orthodox 9%, unknown 2%


Languages:

Turkmen 72%, Russian 12%, Uzbek 9%, other 7%


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 98.8%
male: 99.3%
female: 98.3% (1999 est.)


Education expenditures:

3.9% of GDP (1991)


Government
Turkmenistan



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Turkmenistan
local long form: none
local short form: Turkmenistan
former: Turkmen Soviet Socialist Republic


Government type:

republic; authoritarian presidential rule, with little power outside
the executive branch


Capital:

name: Ashgabat (Ashkhabad)
geographic coordinates: 37 57 N, 58 23 E
time difference: UTC+5 (10 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

5 provinces (welayatlar, singular - welayat) and 1 independent
city*: Ahal Welayaty (Anew), Ashgabat*, Balkan Welayaty
(Balkanabat), Dashoguz Welayaty, Lebap Welayaty (Turkmenabat), Mary
Welayaty
note: administrative divisions have the same names as their
administrative centers (exceptions have the administrative center
name following in parentheses)


Independence:

27 October 1991 (from Soviet Union)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 27 October (1991)


Constitution:

adopted 18 May 1992


Legal system:

based on civil law system and Islamic law; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Gurbanguly BERDIMUHAMEDOW (since 14
February 2007); note - the president is both the chief of state and
head of government
head of government: President Gurbanguly BERDIMUHAMEDOW (since 14
February 2007)
cabinet: Cabinet of Ministers appointed by the president
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election last held on 11 February 2007 (next to be held in 2012)
election results: Gurbanguly BERDIMUHAMEDOW elected president;
percent of vote - Gurbanguly BERDIMUHAMEDOW 89.2%, Amanyaz ATAJYKOW
3.2%, other candidates 7.6%


Legislative branch:

two parliamentary bodies, a People's Council or Halk Maslahaty
(supreme legislative body of about 2,500 delegates, some elected by
popular vote and some appointed; meets at least yearly) and a
National Assembly or Mejlis (50 seats; members are elected by
popular vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: People's Council - last held in April 2003 (next to be
held in December 2008); National Assembly - last held 19 December
2004 (next to be held in December 2008)
election results: People's Council - percent of vote by party - DPT
100%; seats by party - DPT 2,507; National Assembly - percent of
vote by party - DPT 100%; seats by party - DPT 50; note - all
elected officials are members of the Democratic Party of
Turkmenistan and are preapproved by the president
note: in late 2003, a law was adopted reducing the powers of the
National Assembly and making the People's Council the supreme
legislative organ; the People's Council can now legally dissolve the
National Assembly, and the president is now able to participate in
the National Assembly as its supreme leader; the National Assembly
can no longer adopt or amend the constitution or announce
referendums or its elections; since the president is both the
chairman of the People's Council and the supreme leader of the
National Assembly, the 2003 law has the effect of making him the
sole authority of both the executive and legislative branches of
government


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the president)


Political parties and leaders:

Democratic Party of Turkmenistan or DPT [Gurbanguly BERDIMUHAMEDOW]
note: formal opposition parties are outlawed; unofficial, small
opposition movements exist underground or in foreign countries; the
two most prominent opposition groups-in-exile have been National
Democratic Movement of Turkmenistan (NDMT) and the United Democratic
Party of Turkmenistan (UDPT); NDMT was led by former Foreign
Minister Boris SHIKHMURADOV until his arrest and imprisonment in the
wake of the 25 November 2002 attack on President NYYAZOW's motorcade


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

ADB, CIS, EAPC, EBRD, ECO, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IDB,
IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO
(correspondent), ITU, MIGA, NAM, OIC, OPCW, OSCE, PFP, SCO (guest),
UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Meret Bairamovich ORAZOW
chancery: 2207 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 588-1500
FAX: [1] (202) 588-0697


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Richard M.
MILES
embassy: No. 9 1984 Street (formerly Pushkin Street), Ashgabat,
Turkmenistan 744000
mailing address: 7070 Ashgabat Place, Washington, DC 20521-7070
telephone: [993] (12) 35-00-45
FAX: [993] (12) 39-26-14


Flag description:

green field with a vertical red stripe near the hoist side,
containing five tribal guls (designs used in producing carpets)
stacked above two crossed olive branches; a white crescent moon
representing Islam with five white stars representing the regions or
welayats of Turkmenistan appear in the upper corner of the field
just to the fly side of the red stripe


Economy
Turkmenistan



Economy - overview:

Turkmenistan is a largely desert country with intensive agriculture
in irrigated oases and large gas and oil resources. One-half of its
irrigated land is planted in cotton; formerly it was the world's
10th-largest producer. Poor harvests in recent years have led to an
almost 50% decline in cotton exports. With an authoritarian
ex-Communist regime in power and a tribally based social structure,
Turkmenistan has taken a cautious approach to economic reform,
hoping to use gas and cotton sales to sustain its inefficient
economy. Privatization goals remain limited. From 1998-2005,
Turkmenistan suffered from the continued lack of adequate export
routes for natural gas and from obligations on extensive short-term
external debt. At the same time, however, total exports rose by an
average of roughly 15% per year from 2003-07, largely because of
higher international oil and gas prices. Overall prospects in the
near future are discouraging because of widespread internal poverty,
a poor educational system, government misuse of oil and gas
revenues, and Ashgabat's reluctance to adopt market-oriented
reforms. In the past, Turkmenistan's economic statistics were state
secrets. The new government has established a State Agency for
Statistics, but GDP numbers and other figures are subject to wide
margins of error. In particular, the rate of GDP growth is
uncertain. Since his election, President BERDIMUHAMEDOW has sought
to improve the health and education systems, ordered unification of
the country's dual currency exchange rate, begun decreasing state
subsidies for gasoline, signed an agreement to build a gas line to
China, and created a special tourism zone on the Caspian Sea. All of
these moves hint that the new post-NYYAZOW government will work to
create a friendlier foreign investment environment.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$26.92 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$26.91 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

11.5% (IMF estimate)
note: official government statistics are widely regarded as
unreliable (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$5,300 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 11.5%
industry: 40.8%
services: 47.7% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

2.089 million (2004 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 48.2%
industry: 14%
services: 37.8% (2004 est.)


Unemployment rate:

60% (2004 est.)


Population below poverty line:

30% (2004 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.6%
highest 10%: 31.7% (1998)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

40.8 (1998)


Investment (gross fixed):

32.5% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $1.664 billion
expenditures: $1.624 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

11.3% (2007 est.)


Agriculture - products:

cotton, grain; livestock


Industries:

natural gas, oil, petroleum products, textiles, food processing


Industrial production growth rate:

10.3% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

12.83 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

9.584 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

1.34 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 99.9%
hydro: 0.1%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

180,400 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

107,400 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

40,000 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - imports:

5,283 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

600 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

68.88 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

19.48 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

49.4 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

2.832 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$1.705 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$7.567 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

gas, crude oil, petrochemicals, textiles, cotton fiber


Exports - partners:

Ukraine 51.3%, Iran 18.5%, Turkey 5% (2007)


Imports:

$4.516 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, chemicals, foodstuffs


Imports - partners:

UAE 14.3%, Russia 11.6%, Turkey 10.3%, China 9.1%, Ukraine 8.7%,
Iran 7%, Germany 6.5%, US 5.6% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$28.25 million from the US (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$5.172 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$1.4 billion to $5 billion (2004 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Turkmen manat (TMM)


Currency code:

TMM


Exchange rates:

Turkmen manat (TMM) per US dollar - 6,250 (2007) official rate
note: the commercial rate was 19,800 Turkemen manat per US$ (2007)


Communications
Turkmenistan



Telephones - main lines in use:

398,100 (2005)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

216,900 (2006)


Telephone system:

general assessment: poorly developed
domestic: Turkmentelekom, in cooperation with foreign investors, is
planning to upgrade the country's telephone exchanges and install a
new digital switching system; mobile-cellular usage remains limited
international: country code - 993; linked by cable and microwave
radio relay to other CIS republics and to other countries by leased
connections to the Moscow international gateway switch; a new
telephone link from Ashgabat to Iran has been established; a new
exchange in Ashgabat switches international traffic through Turkey
via Intelsat; satellite earth stations - 1 Orbita and 1 Intelsat
(2006)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 16, FM 8, shortwave 2 (1998)


Radios:

1.225 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

4 (government-owned and programmed) (2004)


Televisions:

820,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.tm


Internet hosts:

640 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1


Internet users:

70,000 (2007)


Transportation
Turkmenistan



Airports:

28 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 22
over 3,047 m: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 11
1,524 to 2,437 m: 8
914 to 1,523 m: 2 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 6
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
under 914 m: 4 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 6,441 km; oil 1,361 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 2,440 km
broad gauge: 2,440 km 1.520-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 58,592 km
paved: 47,577 km
unpaved: 11,015 km (2002)


Waterways:

1,300 km (Amu Darya and Kara Kum canal important inland waterways)
(2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 7
by type: cargo 4, petroleum tanker 2, refrigerated cargo 1 (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Turkmenbasy


Military
Turkmenistan



Military branches:

Ground Forces, Navy, Air and Air Defense Forces (2007)


Military service age and obligation:

18-30 years of age for compulsory military service; 2-year conscript
service obligation (2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,316,698
females age 16-49: 1,331,005 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,064,965
females age 16-49: 1,136,553 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 57,615
female: 55,426 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

3.4% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Turkmenistan



Disputes - international:

cotton monoculture in Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan creates
water-sharing difficulties for Amu Darya river states; field
demarcation of the boundaries with Kazakhstan commenced in 2005, but
Caspian seabed delimitation remains stalled with Azerbaijan, Iran,
and Kazakhstan due to Turkmenistan's indecision over how to allocate
the sea's waters and seabed


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 11,173 (Tajikistan); less than 1,000
(Afghanistan) (2007)


Illicit drugs:

transit country for Afghan narcotics bound for Russian and Western
European markets; transit point for heroin precursor chemicals bound
for Afghanistan



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Turks and Caicos Islands

Introduction
Turks and Caicos Islands



Background:

The islands were part of the UK's Jamaican colony until 1962, when
they assumed the status of a separate crown colony upon Jamaica's
independence. The governor of The Bahamas oversaw affairs from 1965
to 1973. With Bahamian independence, the islands received a separate
governor in 1973. Although independence was agreed upon for 1982,
the policy was reversed and the islands remain a British overseas
territory.


Geography
Turks and Caicos Islands



Location:

Caribbean, two island groups in the North Atlantic Ocean, southeast
of The Bahamas, north of Haiti


Geographic coordinates:

21 45 N, 71 35 W


Map references:

Central America and the Caribbean


Area:

total: 430 sq km
land: 430 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

2.5 times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

389 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; marine; moderated by trade winds; sunny and relatively dry


Terrain:

low, flat limestone; extensive marshes and mangrove swamps


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
highest point: Blue Hills 49 m


Natural resources:

spiny lobster, conch


Land use:

arable land: 2.33%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 97.67% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

frequent hurricanes


Environment - current issues:

limited natural fresh water resources, private cisterns collect
rainwater


Geography - note:

about 40 islands (eight inhabited)


People
Turks and Caicos Islands



Population:

22,352 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 30.7% (male 3,497/female 3,374)
15-64 years: 65.2% (male 7,640/female 6,929)
65 years and over: 4.1% (male 435/female 477) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 27.8 years
male: 28.5 years
female: 27 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.644% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

21.12 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

4.16 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

9.48 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.1 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.91 male(s)/female
total population: 1.07 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 14.35 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 16.56 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 12.04 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 75.19 years
male: 72.91 years
female: 77.59 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.98 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: none
adjective: none


Ethnic groups:

black 90%, mixed, European, or North American 10%


Religions:

Baptist 40%, Anglican 18%, Methodist 16%, Church of God 12%, other
14% (1990)


Languages:

English (official)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over has ever attended school
total population: 98%
male: 99%
female: 98% (1970 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 11 years
male: 11 years
female: 12 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

NA


People - note:

destination and transit point for illegal Haitian immigrants bound
for the Turks and Caicos Islands, The Bahamas, and the US


Government
Turks and Caicos Islands



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Turks and Caicos Islands
abbreviation: TCI


Dependency status:

overseas territory of the UK


Government type:

NA


Capital:

name: Grand Turk (Cockburn Town)
geographic coordinates: 21 28 N, 71 08 W
time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard
Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins first Sunday in April; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


Independence:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


National holiday:

Constitution Day, 30 August (1976)


Constitution:

Turks and Caicos Islands Constitution Order 2006 (effective 9 August
2006)


Legal system:

based on laws of England and Wales, with a few adopted from Jamaica
and The Bahamas


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by Governor Gordon WETHERELL (since 5 August 2008)
head of government: Premier Michael Eugene MISICK (chief minister
since 15 August 2003, sworn in as premier on 9 August 2006); note -
the office of premier was created in the 2006 constitution
cabinet: Cabinet consists of the governor, the premier, six
ministers appointed by the governor from among the members of the
House of Assembly, and the attorney general
elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor appointed by the
monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the majority
party is appointed premier by the governor


Legislative branch:

unicameral House of Assembly (21 seats of which 15 are popularly
elected; members serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 9 February 2007 (next to be held in 2011)
election results: percent of vote by party - PNP 60%, PDM 40%; seats
by party - PNP 13, PDM 2


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court; Court of Appeal


Political parties and leaders:

People's Democratic Movement or PDM [Floyd SEYMOUR]; Progressive
National Party or PNP [Michael Eugene MISICK]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

Caricom (associate), CDB, Interpol (subbureau), UPU


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (overseas territory of the UK)


Flag description:

blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and
the colonial shield centered on the outer half of the flag; the
shield is yellow and contains a conch shell, lobster, and cactus


Economy
Turks and Caicos Islands



Economy - overview:

The Turks and Caicos economy is based on tourism, offshore financial
services, and fishing. Most capital goods and food for domestic
consumption are imported. The US is the leading source of tourists,
accounting for more than three-quarters of the 175,000 visitors that
arrived in 2004. Major sources of government revenue also include
fees from offshore financial activities and customs receipts.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$216 million (2002 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$NA


GDP - real growth rate:

4.9% (2000 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$11,500 (2002 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: NA%
industry: NA%
services: NA%


Labor force:

4,848 (1990 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

note: about 33% in government and 20% in agriculture and fishing;
significant numbers in tourism, financial, and other services


Unemployment rate:

10% (1997 est.)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $47 million
expenditures: $33.6 million (1997-98 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

4% (1995)


Agriculture - products:

corn, beans, cassava (tapioca), citrus fruits; fish


Industries:

tourism, offshore financial services


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

10 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

9.3 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

80 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

83.78 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Exports:

$169.2 million (2000)


Exports - commodities:

lobster, dried and fresh conch, conch shells


Exports - partners:

US, UK (2006)


Imports:

$175.6 million (2000)


Imports - commodities:

food and beverages, tobacco, clothing, manufactures, construction
materials


Imports - partners:

US, UK (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$4.1 million (1997)


Debt - external:

$NA


Currency (code):

US dollar (USD)


Currency code:

USD


Exchange rates:

the US dollar is used


Communications
Turks and Caicos Islands



Telephones - main lines in use:

5,700 (2002)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

1,700 (1999)


Telephone system:

general assessment: fully digital system with international direct
dialing
domestic: full range of services available; GSM wireless service
available
international: country code - 1-649; the Americas Region Caribbean
Ring System (ARCOS-1) fiber optic telecommunications submarine cable
provides connectivity to South and Central America, parts of the
Caribbean, and the US; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat
(Atlantic Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 2, FM 7, shortwave 0 (2003)


Radios:

8,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

0 (broadcasts received from The Bahamas; 2 cable television
networks) (2003)


Televisions:

NA


Internet country code:

.tc


Internet hosts:

2,352 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

14 (2000)


Internet users:

NA


Transportation
Turks and Caicos Islands



Airports:

8 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 6
1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 2 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 2
under 914 m: 2 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 121 km
paved: 24 km
unpaved: 97 km (2003)


Merchant marine:

registered in other countries: 1 (Panama 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Grand Turk, Providenciales


Military
Turks and Caicos Islands



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 222
female: 214 (2008 est.)


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of the UK


Transnational Issues
Turks and Caicos Islands



Disputes - international:

have received Haitians fleeing economic and civil disorder


Illicit drugs:

transshipment point for South American narcotics destined for the US
and Europe



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Tuvalu

Introduction
Tuvalu



Background:

In 1974, ethnic differences within the British colony of the Gilbert
and Ellice Islands caused the Polynesians of the Ellice Islands to
vote for separation from the Micronesians of the Gilbert Islands.
The following year, the Ellice Islands became the separate British
colony of Tuvalu. Independence was granted in 1978. In 2000, Tuvalu
negotiated a contract leasing its Internet domain name ".tv" for $50
million in royalties over a 12-year period.


Geography
Tuvalu



Location:

Oceania, island group consisting of nine coral atolls in the South
Pacific Ocean, about one-half of the way from Hawaii to Australia


Geographic coordinates:

8 00 S, 178 00 E


Map references:

Oceania


Area:

total: 26 sq km
land: 26 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

0.1 times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

24 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; moderated by easterly trade winds (March to November);
westerly gales and heavy rain (November to March)


Terrain:

very low-lying and narrow coral atolls


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: unnamed location 5 m


Natural resources:

fish


Land use:

arable land: 0%
permanent crops: 66.67%
other: 33.33% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

severe tropical storms are usually rare, but, in 1997, there were
three cyclones; low level of islands make them sensitive to changes
in sea level


Environment - current issues:

since there are no streams or rivers and groundwater is not potable,
most water needs must be met by catchment systems with storage
facilities (the Japanese Government has built one desalination plant
and plans to build one other); beachhead erosion because of the use
of sand for building materials; excessive clearance of forest
undergrowth for use as fuel; damage to coral reefs from the spread
of the Crown of Thorns starfish; Tuvalu is concerned about global
increases in greenhouse gas emissions and their effect on rising sea
levels, which threaten the country's underground water table; in
2000, the government appealed to Australia and New Zealand to take
in Tuvaluans if rising sea levels should make evacuation necessary


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection,
Ship Pollution, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

one of the smallest and most remote countries on Earth; six of the
nine coral atolls - Nanumea, Nui, Vaitupu, Nukufetau, Funafuti, and
Nukulaelae - have lagoons open to the ocean; Nanumaya and Niutao
have landlocked lagoons; Niulakita does not have a lagoon


People
Tuvalu



Population:

12,177 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 29.4% (male 1,826/female 1,754)
15-64 years: 65.4% (male 3,891/female 4,073)
65 years and over: 5.2% (male 236/female 397) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 25.2 years
male: 24.2 years
female: 26.4 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.577% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

22.75 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

6.98 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.96 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.59 male(s)/female
total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 18.97 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 21.56 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 16.25 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 68.97 years
male: 66.7 years
female: 71.36 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.94 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Tuvaluan(s)
adjective: Tuvaluan


Ethnic groups:

Polynesian 96%, Micronesian 4%


Religions:

Church of Tuvalu (Congregationalist) 97%, Seventh-Day Adventist
1.4%, Baha'i 1%, other 0.6%


Languages:

Tuvaluan, English, Samoan, Kiribati (on the island of Nui)


Literacy:

NA


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 11 years
male: 11 years
female: 11 years (2001)


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Tuvalu



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Tuvalu
local long form: none
local short form: Tuvalu
former: Ellice Islands
note: "Tuvalu" means "group of eight," referring to the country's
eight traditionally inhabited islands


Government type:

constitutional monarchy with a parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Funafuti
geographic coordinates: 8 30 S, 179 12 E
time difference: UTC+12 (17 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
note: administrative offices are located in Vaiaku Village on
Fongafale Islet


Administrative divisions:

none


Independence:

1 October 1978 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 1 October (1978)


Constitution:

1 October 1978


Legal system:

NA


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
represented by Governor General Filoimea TELITO (since 15 April 2005)
head of government: Prime Minister Apisai IELEMIA (since 14 August
2006)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the
recommendation of the prime minister
elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor general appointed by
the monarch on the recommendation of the prime minister; prime
minister and deputy prime minister elected by and from the members
of Parliament; election last held 14 August 2006 (next to be held
following parliamentary elections in 2010)
election results: Apisai IELEMIA elected Prime Minister in a
Parliamentary election on 14 August 2006


Legislative branch:

unicameral Parliament or Fale I Fono, also called House of Assembly
(15 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 3 August 2006 (next to be held in 2010)
election results: percent of vote - NA; seats - independents 15


Judicial branch:

High Court (a chief justice visits twice a year to preside over its
sessions; its rulings can be appealed to the Court of Appeal in
Fiji); eight Island Courts (with limited jurisdiction)


Political parties and leaders:

there are no political parties but members of Parliament usually
align themselves in informal groupings


Political pressure groups and leaders:

none


International organization participation:

ACP, ADB, C, FAO, IFRCS (observer), IMO, IOC, ITU, OPCW, PIF,
Sparteca, SPC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU, WHO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

Tuvalu does not have an embassy in the US - the country's only
diplomatic post is in Fiji - Tuvalu does, however, have a UN office
located at 800 2nd Avenue, Suite 400D, New York, NY 10017,
telephone: [1] (212) 490-0534


Diplomatic representation from the US:

the US does not have an embassy in Tuvalu; the US ambassador to Fiji
is accredited to Tuvalu


Flag description:

light blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant;
the outer half of the flag represents a map of the country with nine
yellow five-pointed stars symbolizing the nine islands


Economy
Tuvalu



Economy - overview:

Tuvalu consists of a densely populated, scattered group of nine
coral atolls with poor soil. The country has no known mineral
resources and few exports. Subsistence farming and fishing are the
primary economic activities. Fewer than 1,000 tourists, on average,
visit Tuvalu annually. Job opportunities are scarce and public
sector workers make up the majority of those employed. About 15% of
the adult male population work as seamen on merchant ships abroad
and remittances are a vital source of income, contributing around $4
million in 2006. Substantial income is received annually from the
Tuvalu Trust Fund (TTF), an international trust fund established in
1987 by Australia, NZ, and the UK and supported also by Japan and
South Korea. Thanks to wise investments and conservative
withdrawals, this fund grew from an initial $17 million to an
estimated value of $77 million in 2006. The TFF contributed nearly
$9 million towards the government budget in 2006 and is an important
cushion for meeting shortfalls in the government's budget. The US
Government is also a major revenue source for Tuvalu because of
payments from a 1988 treaty on fisheries. In an effort to ensure
financial stability and sustainability, the government is pursuing
public sector reforms, including privatization of some government
functions and personnel cuts. Tuvalu also derives royalties from the
lease of its ".tv" Internet domain name, with revenue of more than
$2 million in 2006. A minor source of government revenue comes from
the sale of stamps and coins. With merchandise exports only a
fraction of merchandise imports, continued reliance must be placed
on fishing and telecommunications license fees, remittances from
overseas workers, official transfers, and income from overseas
investments. Growing income disparities and the vulnerability of the
country to climatic change are among leading concerns for the nation.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$14.94 million (2002 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$14.94 million (2002)


GDP - real growth rate:

3% (2006 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$1,600 (2002 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 16.6%
industry: 27.2%
services: 56.2% (2002)


Labor force:

3,615 (2004 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

note: people make a living mainly through exploitation of the sea,
reefs, and atolls and from wages sent home by those abroad (mostly
workers in the phosphate industry and sailors)


Unemployment rate:

NA%


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $21.54 million
expenditures: $23.05 million (2006)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

3.8% (2006 est.)


Agriculture - products:

coconuts; fish


Industries:

fishing, tourism, copra


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: NA
hydro: NA
nuclear: NA
other: NA


Current account balance:

-$11.68 million (2003)


Exports:

$1 million f.o.b. (2004 est.)


Exports - commodities:

copra, fish


Exports - partners:

Germany 60.5%, Italy 20.1%, Fiji 6.9% (2006)


Imports:

$12.91 million c.i.f. (2005)


Imports - commodities:

food, animals, mineral fuels, machinery, manufactured goods


Imports - partners:

Fiji 46.1%, Japan 18.9%, China 18.2%, Australia 7.7%, NZ 4.1% (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$10.49 million
note: includes distributions from the Tuvalu Trust Fund (2006)


Debt - external:

$NA


Currency (code):

Australian dollar (AUD); note - there is also a Tuvaluan dollar


Currency code:

AUD


Exchange rates:

Tuvaluan dollars or Australian dollars (AUD) per US dollar - 1.2137
(2007), 1.3285 (2006), 1.3095 (2005), 1.3598 (2004), 1.5419 (2003)


Communications
Tuvalu



Telephones - main lines in use:

900 (2005)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

1,300 (2005)


Telephone system:

general assessment: serves particular needs for internal
communications
domestic: radiotelephone communications between islands
international: country code - 688; international calls can be made
by satellite


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 0 (2004)


Radios:

4,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

0 (2004)


Televisions:

800


Internet country code:

.tv


Internet hosts:

56,209 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

1,300 (2002)


Transportation
Tuvalu



Airports:

1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 8 km
paved: 8 km (2002)


Merchant marine:

total: 80
by type: bulk carrier 7, cargo 30, chemical tanker 14, container 2,
passenger 2, passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 22, refrigerated
cargo 1, specialized tanker 1
foreign-owned: 63 (China 16, Hong Kong 7, Kenya 1, South Korea 1,
Malaysia 1, Maldives 1, Norway 1, Russia 2, Singapore 23, Thailand
1, Turkey 2, Ukraine 1, US 1, Vietnam 5) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Funafuti


Military
Tuvalu



Military branches:

no regular military forces; Tuvalu Police Force (2008)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 128
female: 125 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

NA


Transnational Issues
Tuvalu



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Uganda

Introduction
Uganda



Background:

The colonial boundaries created by Britain to delimit Uganda grouped
together a wide range of ethnic groups with different political
systems and cultures. These differences prevented the establishment
of a working political community after independence was achieved in
1962. The dictatorial regime of Idi AMIN (1971-79) was responsible
for the deaths of some 300,000 opponents; guerrilla war and human
rights abuses under Milton OBOTE (1980-85) claimed at least another
100,000 lives. The rule of Yoweri MUSEVENI since 1986 has brought
relative stability and economic growth to Uganda. During the 1990s,
the government promulgated non-party presidential and legislative
elections.


Geography
Uganda



Location:

Eastern Africa, west of Kenya


Geographic coordinates:

1 00 N, 32 00 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 236,040 sq km
land: 199,710 sq km
water: 36,330 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Oregon


Land boundaries:

total: 2,698 km
border countries: Democratic Republic of the Congo 765 km, Kenya 933
km, Rwanda 169 km, Sudan 435 km, Tanzania 396 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

tropical; generally rainy with two dry seasons (December to
February, June to August); semiarid in northeast


Terrain:

mostly plateau with rim of mountains


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Lake Albert 621 m
highest point: Margherita Peak on Mount Stanley 5,110 m


Natural resources:

copper, cobalt, hydropower, limestone, salt, arable land


Land use:

arable land: 21.57%
permanent crops: 8.92%
other: 69.51% (2005)


Irrigated land:

90 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

66 cu km (1970)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 0.3 cu km/yr (43%/17%/40%)
per capita: 10 cu m/yr (2002)


Natural hazards:

NA


Environment - current issues:

draining of wetlands for agricultural use; deforestation;
overgrazing; soil erosion; water hyacinth infestation in Lake
Victoria; widespread poaching


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection,
Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification


Geography - note:

landlocked; fertile, well-watered country with many lakes and rivers


People
Uganda



Population:

31,367,972
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 50% (male 7,903,935/female 7,789,792)
15-64 years: 47.8% (male 7,528,073/female 7,469,938)
65 years and over: 2.2% (male 284,122/female 392,112) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 15 years
male: 14.9 years
female: 15.1 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

3.603% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

48.15 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

12.32 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

0.21 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.72 male(s)/female
total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 65.99 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 69.65 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 62.21 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 52.34 years
male: 51.31 years
female: 53.4 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

6.81 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

4.1% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

530,000 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

78,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: chikungunya, malaria, plague, and African
trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness)
water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Ugandan(s)
adjective: Ugandan


Ethnic groups:

Baganda 16.9%, Banyakole 9.5%, Basoga 8.4%, Bakiga 6.9%, Iteso 6.4%,
Langi 6.1%, Acholi 4.7%, Bagisu 4.6%, Lugbara 4.2%, Bunyoro 2.7%,
other 29.6% (2002 census)


Religions:

Roman Catholic 41.9%, Protestant 42% (Anglican 35.9%, Pentecostal
4.6%, Seventh Day Adventist 1.5%), Muslim 12.1%, other 3.1%, none
0.9% (2002 census)


Languages:

English (official national language, taught in grade schools, used
in courts of law and by most newspapers and some radio broadcasts),
Ganda or Luganda (most widely used of the Niger-Congo languages,
preferred for native language publications in the capital and may be
taught in school), other Niger-Congo languages, Nilo-Saharan
languages, Swahili, Arabic


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 66.8%
male: 76.8%
female: 57.7% (2002 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 10 years
male: 11 years
female: 10 years (2004)


Education expenditures:

5.2% of GDP (2004)


Government
Uganda



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Uganda
conventional short form: Uganda


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Kampala
geographic coordinates: 0 19 N, 32 25 E
time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

56 districts; Adjumani, Apac, Arua, Bugiri, Bundibugyo, Bushenyi,
Busia, Gulu, Hoima, Iganga, Jinja, Kabale, Kabarole, Kaberamaido,
Kalangala, Kampala, Kamuli, Kamwenge, Kanungu, Kapchorwa, Kasese,
Katakwi, Kayunga, Kibale, Kiboga, Kisoro, Kitgum, Kotido, Kumi,
Kyenjojo, Lira, Luwero, Masaka, Masindi, Mayuge, Mbale, Mbarara,
Moroto, Moyo, Mpigi, Mubende, Mukono, Nakapiripirit, Nakasongola,
Nebbi, Ntungamo, Pader, Pallisa, Rakai, Rukungiri, Sembabule,
Sironko, Soroti, Tororo, Wakiso, Yumbe
note: as of a July 2005, 13 new districts were reportedly added
bringing the total up to 69; the new districts are Amolatar, Amuria,
Budaka, Butaleja, Ibanda, Kaabong, Kabingo, Kaliro, Kiruhura,
Koboko, Manafwa, Mityana, Nakaseke; a total of ten more districts
are in the process of being added


Independence:

9 October 1962 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 9 October (1962)


Constitution:

8 October 1995; in 2005 the constitution was amended removing
presidential term limits and legalizing a multiparty political system


Legal system:

in 1995, the government restored the legal system to one based on
English common law and customary law; accepts compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction, with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Lt. Gen. Yoweri Kaguta MUSEVENI (since
seizing power 26 January 1986); note - the president is both chief
of state and head of government
head of government: President Lt. Gen. Yoweri Kaguta MUSEVENI (since
seizing power 26 January 1986); Prime Minister Apolo NSIBAMBI (since
5 April 1999); note - the prime minister assists the president in
the supervision of the cabinet
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president from among elected
legislators
elections: president reelected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election last held 23 February 2006 (next to be held in 2011)
election results: Lt. Gen. Yoweri Kaguta MUSEVENI elected president;
percent of vote - Lt. Gen. Yoweri Kaguta MUSEVENI 59.3%, Kizza
BESIGYE 37.4%, other 3.3%


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly (332 seats; 215 members elected by
popular vote, 104 nominated by legally established special interest
groups [women 79, army 10, disabled 5, youth 5, labor 5], 13 ex
officio members; to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held 23 February 2006 (next to be held in 2011)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
NRM 191, FDC 37, UPC 9, DP 8, CP 1, JEEMA 1, independents 36, other
49


Judicial branch:

Court of Appeal (judges are appointed by the president and approved
by the legislature); High Court (judges are appointed by the
president)


Political parties and leaders:

Conservative Party or CP [Ken LUKYAMUZI]; Democratic Party or DP
[Kizito SSEBAANA]; Forum for Democratic Change or FDC [Kizza
BESIGYE]; Justice Forum or JEEMA [Muhammad Kibirige MAYANJA];
National Resistance Movement or NRM [Yoweri MUSEVENI]; Peoples
Progressive Party or PPP [Bidandi SSALI]; Ugandan People's Congress
or UPC [Miria OBOTE]
note: a national referendum in July 2005 opened the way for Uganda's
transition to a multi-party political system


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Lord's Resistence Group or LRA [Joseph KONY]; Young Parliamentary
Association [Henry BANYENZAKI]; Parliamentary Advocacy Forum or
PAFO; National Association of Women Organizations in Uganda or NAWOU
[Florence NEKYON]; The Ugandan Coalition for Political
Accountability to Wormen or COPAW


International organization participation:

ACP, AfDB, AU, C, COMESA, EAC, EADB, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IGAD, ILO, IMF, Interpol,
IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURCAT,
NAM, OIC, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO,
UNMIS, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Perezi Karukubiro KAMUNANWIRE
chancery: 5911 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20011
telephone: [1] (202) 726-7100 through 7102, 0416
FAX: [1] (202) 726-1727


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Steven BROWNING
embassy: 1577 Ggaba Road, Kampala
mailing address: P. O. Box 7007, Kampala
telephone: [256] (414) 259, 306-001
FAX: [256] (414) 258-451


Flag description:

six equal horizontal bands of black (top), yellow, red, black,
yellow, and red; a white disk is superimposed at the center and
depicts a red-crested crane (the national symbol) facing the hoist
side


Economy
Uganda



Economy - overview:

Uganda has substantial natural resources, including fertile soils,
regular rainfall, and sizable mineral deposits of copper, cobalt,
gold, and other minerals. Agriculture is the most important sector
of the economy, employing over 80% of the work force. Coffee
accounts for the bulk of export revenues. Since 1986, the government
- with the support of foreign countries and international agencies -
has acted to rehabilitate and stabilize the economy by undertaking
currency reform, raising producer prices on export crops, increasing
prices of petroleum products, and improving civil service wages. The
policy changes are especially aimed at dampening inflation and
boosting production and export earnings. During 1990-2001, the
economy turned in a solid performance based on continued investment
in the rehabilitation of infrastructure, improved incentives for
production and exports, reduced inflation, gradually improved
domestic security, and the return of exiled Indian-Ugandan
entrepreneurs. Growth continues to be solid, despite variability in
the price of coffee, Uganda's principal export, and a consistent
upturn in Uganda's export markets. In 2000, Uganda qualified for
enhanced Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) debt relief worth
$1.3 billion and Paris Club debt relief worth $145 million. These
amounts combined with the original HIPC debt relief added up to
about $2 billion.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$29.13 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$11.23 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$1,000 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 30.2%
industry: 24.7%
services: 45.1% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

14.02 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 82%
industry: 5%
services: 13% (1999 est.)


Unemployment rate:

NA%


Population below poverty line:

35% (2001 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.3%
highest 10%: 37.7% (2002)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

45.7 (2002)


Investment (gross fixed):

25.4% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $2.211 billion
expenditures: $2.443 billion; including capital expenditures of $NA
(2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 July - 30 June


Public debt:

20.6% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

6.1% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

14.68% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

19.11% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$1.363 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$1.302 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$907.3 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

coffee, tea, cotton, tobacco, cassava (tapioca), potatoes, corn,
millet, pulses, cut flowers; beef, goat meat, milk, poultry


Industries:

sugar, brewing, tobacco, cotton textiles; cement, steel production


Industrial production growth rate:

5.8% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

1.161 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

899.7 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

180 million kWh (2006)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 0.9%
hydro: 99.1%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

11,570 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

115.2 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

11,540 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$744.7 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$1.686 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

coffee, fish and fish products, tea, cotton, flowers, horticultural
products; gold


Exports - partners:

Netherlands 10.2%, Belgium 9.8%, Germany 7.9%, France 7.2%, Rwanda
5.6% (2007)


Imports:

$2.983 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

capital equipment, vehicles, petroleum, medical supplies; cereals


Imports - partners:

Kenya 31.8%, China 7.8%, UAE 7.7%, South Africa 5.9%, India 5.2%,
Japan 4.8% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$1.198 billion (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$2.56 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$1.498 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$NA


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$103.4 million (2005)


Currency (code):

Ugandan shilling (UGX)


Currency code:

UGX


Exchange rates:

Ugandan shillings (UGX) per US dollar - 1,685.8 (2007), 1,834.9
(2006), 1,780.7 (2005), 1,810.3 (2004), 1,963.7 (2003)


Communications
Uganda



Telephones - main lines in use:

162,300 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

4.195 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: seriously inadequate; mobile cellular service is
increasing rapidly, but the number of main lines is still deficient;
e-mail and Internet services are available
domestic: intercity traffic by wire, microwave radio relay, and
radiotelephone communication stations, fixed and mobile-cellular
systems for short-range traffic
international: country code - 256; satellite earth stations - 1
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) and 1 Inmarsat; analog links to Kenya and
Tanzania


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 7, FM 33, shortwave 2 (2001)


Radios:

5 million (2001)


Television broadcast stations:

8 (plus 1 repeater) (2001)


Televisions:

500,000 (2001)


Internet country code:

.ug


Internet hosts:

1,090 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

2 (2000)


Internet users:

2 million (2007)


Transportation
Uganda



Airports:

32 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 5
over 3,047 m: 3
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 27
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 6
914 to 1,523 m: 11
under 914 m: 9 (2007)


Railways:

total: 1,244 km
narrow gauge: 1,244 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 70,746 km
paved: 16,272 km
unpaved: 54,474 km (2003)


Waterways:

on Lake Victoria, 200 km on Lake Albert, Lake Kyoga, and parts of
Albert Nile (2005)


Ports and terminals:

Entebbe, Jinja, Port Bell


Military
Uganda



Military branches:

Uganda Peoples Defense Force (UPDF): Army (includes Marine Unit),
Air Force (2007)


Military service age and obligation:

18-26 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military duty; 18-30
years of age for professionals; 9-year service obligation; the
government has stated that recruitment below 18 years of age could
occur with proper consent and that "no person under the apparent age
of 13 years shall be enrolled in the armed forces"; Ugandan
citizenship and secondary education required (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 6,532,894
females age 16-49: 6,352,416 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 3,856,365
females age 16-49: 3,769,120 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 384,638
female: 381,990 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

2.2% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Uganda



Disputes - international:

Uganda is subject to armed fighting among hostile ethnic groups,
rebels, armed gangs, militias, and various government forces that
extend across its borders; Uganda hosts 209,860 Sudanese, 27,560
Congolese, and 19,710 Rwandan refugees, while Ugandan refugees as
well as members of the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) seek shelter in
southern Sudan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo's Garamba
National Park; LRA forces have also attacked Kenyan villages across
the border


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 215,700 (Sudan); 28,880 (Democratic
Republic of Congo); 24,900 (Rwanda)
IDPs: 1.27 million (350,000 IDPs returned in 2006 following ongoing
peace talks between the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) and the
Government of Uganda) (2007)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Ukraine

Introduction
Ukraine



Background:

Ukraine was the center of the first eastern Slavic state, Kyivan
Rus, which during the 10th and 11th centuries was the largest and
most powerful state in Europe. Weakened by internecine quarrels and
Mongol invasions, Kyivan Rus was incorporated into the Grand Duchy
of Lithuania and eventually into the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth.
The cultural and religious legacy of Kyivan Rus laid the foundation
for Ukrainian nationalism through subsequent centuries. A new
Ukrainian state, the Cossack Hetmanate, was established during the
mid-17th century after an uprising against the Poles. Despite
continuous Muscovite pressure, the Hetmanate managed to remain
autonomous for well over 100 years. During the latter part of the
18th century, most Ukrainian ethnographic territory was absorbed by
the Russian Empire. Following the collapse of czarist Russia in
1917, Ukraine was able to bring about a short-lived period of
independence (1917-20), but was reconquered and forced to endure a
brutal Soviet rule that engineered two artificial famines (1921-22
and 1932-33) in which over 8 million died. In World War II, German
and Soviet armies were responsible for some 7 to 8 million more
deaths. Although final independence for Ukraine was achieved in 1991
with the dissolution of the USSR, democracy remained elusive as the
legacy of state control and endemic corruption stalled efforts at
economic reform, privatization, and civil liberties. A peaceful mass
protest "Orange Revolution" in the closing months of 2004 forced the
authorities to overturn a rigged presidential election and to allow
a new internationally monitored vote that swept into power a
reformist slate under Viktor YUSHCHENKO. Subsequent internal
squabbles in the YUSHCHENKO camp allowed his rival Viktor YANUKOVYCH
to stage a comeback in parliamentary elections and become prime
minister in August of 2006. An early legislative election, brought
on by a political crisis in the spring of 2007, saw Yuliya
TYMOSHENKO, as head of an "Orange" coalition, installed as a new
prime minister in December 2007.


Geography
Ukraine



Location:

Eastern Europe, bordering the Black Sea, between Poland, Romania,
and Moldova in the west and Russia in the east


Geographic coordinates:

49 00 N, 32 00 E


Map references:

Asia, Europe


Area:

total: 603,700 sq km
land: 603,700 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Texas


Land boundaries:

total: 4,566 km
border countries: Belarus 891 km, Hungary 103 km, Moldova 940 km,
Poland 428 km, Romania (south) 176 km, Romania (southwest) 362 km,
Russia 1,576 km, Slovakia 90 km


Coastline:

2,782 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200-m or to the depth of exploitation


Climate:

temperate continental; Mediterranean only on the southern Crimean
coast; precipitation disproportionately distributed, highest in west
and north, lesser in east and southeast; winters vary from cool
along the Black Sea to cold farther inland; summers are warm across
the greater part of the country, hot in the south


Terrain:

most of Ukraine consists of fertile plains (steppes) and plateaus,
mountains being found only in the west (the Carpathians), and in the
Crimean Peninsula in the extreme south


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Black Sea 0 m
highest point: Hora Hoverla 2,061 m


Natural resources:

iron ore, coal, manganese, natural gas, oil, salt, sulfur, graphite,
titanium, magnesium, kaolin, nickel, mercury, timber, arable land


Land use:

arable land: 53.8%
permanent crops: 1.5%
other: 44.7% (2005)


Irrigated land:

22,080 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

139.5 cu km (1997)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 37.53 cu km/yr (12%/35%/52%)
per capita: 807 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

NA


Environment - current issues:

inadequate supplies of potable water; air and water pollution;
deforestation; radiation contamination in the northeast from 1986
accident at Chornobyl' Nuclear Power Plant


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Sulfur 85, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol,
Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Endangered Species,
Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic
Compounds


Geography - note:

strategic position at the crossroads between Europe and Asia;
second-largest country in Europe


People
Ukraine



Population:

45,994,288 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 13.9% (male 3,277,905/female 3,106,012)
15-64 years: 70% (male 15,443,818/female 16,767,931)
65 years and over: 16.1% (male 2,489,235/female 4,909,386) (2008
est.)


Median age:

total: 39.4 years
male: 36.1 years
female: 42.5 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

-0.651% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

9.55 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

15.93 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-0.12 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.92 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.51 male(s)/female
total population: 0.86 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 9.23 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 11.48 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 6.85 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 68.06 years
male: 62.24 years
female: 74.24 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.25 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

1.4% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

360,000 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

20,000 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Ukrainian(s)
adjective: Ukrainian


Ethnic groups:

Ukrainian 77.8%, Russian 17.3%, Belarusian 0.6%, Moldovan 0.5%,
Crimean Tatar 0.5%, Bulgarian 0.4%, Hungarian 0.3%, Romanian 0.3%,
Polish 0.3%, Jewish 0.2%, other 1.8% (2001 census)


Religions:

Ukrainian Orthodox - Kyiv Patriarchate 50.4%, Ukrainian Orthodox -
Moscow Patriarchate 26.1%, Ukrainian Greek Catholic 8%, Ukrainian
Autocephalous Orthodox 7.2%, Roman Catholic 2.2%, Protestant 2.2%,
Jewish 0.6%, other 3.2% (2006 est.)


Languages:

Ukrainian (official) 67%, Russian 24%, other 9% (includes small
Romanian-, Polish-, and Hungarian-speaking minorities)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99.4%
male: 99.7%
female: 99.2% (2001 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 14 years
male: 14 years
female: 15 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

6.3% of GDP (2006)


Government
Ukraine



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Ukraine
local long form: none
local short form: Ukrayina
former: Ukrainian National Republic, Ukrainian State, Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Kyiv (Kiev)
geographic coordinates: 50 26 N, 30 31 E
time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October


Administrative divisions:

24 provinces (oblasti, singular - oblast'), 1 autonomous republic*
(avtonomna respublika), and 2 municipalities (mista, singular -
misto) with oblast status**; Cherkasy, Chernihiv, Chernivtsi, Crimea
or Avtonomna Respublika Krym* (Simferopol'), Dnipropetrovs'k,
Donets'k, Ivano-Frankivs'k, Kharkiv, Kherson, Khmel'nyts'kyy,
Kirovohrad, Kyiv**, Kyiv, Luhans'k, L'viv, Mykolayiv, Odesa,
Poltava, Rivne, Sevastopol'**, Sumy, Ternopil', Vinnytsya, Volyn'
(Luts'k), Zakarpattya (Uzhhorod), Zaporizhzhya, Zhytomyr
note: administrative divisions have the same names as their
administrative centers (exceptions have the administrative center
name following in parentheses)


Independence:

24 August 1991 (from Soviet Union)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 24 August (1991); note - 22 January 1918, the day
Ukraine first declared its independence (from Soviet Russia) and the
day the short-lived Western and Central Ukrainian republics united
(1919), is now celebrated as Unity Day


Constitution:

adopted 28 June 1996


Legal system:

based on civil law system; judicial review of legislative acts; has
not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Viktor A. YUSHCHENKO (since 23 January
2005)
head of government: Prime Minister Yuliya TYMOSHENKO (since 18
December 2007); First Deputy Prime Minister Oleksandr TURCHYNOV
(since 18 December 2007); Deputy Prime Ministers Hryhoriy NEMYRYA
and Ivan VASYUNYK (since 18 December 2007)
cabinet: Cabinet of Ministers selected by the prime minister; the
only exceptions are the foreign and defense ministers, who are
chosen by the president
note: there is also a National Security and Defense Council or NSDC
originally created in 1992 as the National Security Council; the
NSDC staff is tasked with developing national security policy on
domestic and international matters and advising the president; a
Presidential Secretariat helps draft presidential edicts and
provides policy support to the president
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); note - a special repeat runoff
presidential election between Viktor YUSHCHENKO and Viktor
YANUKOVYCH took place on 26 December 2004 after the earlier 21
November 2004 contest - won by YANUKOVYCH - was invalidated by the
Ukrainian Supreme Court because of widespread and significant
violations; under constitutional reforms that went into effect 1
January 2006, the majority in parliament takes the lead in naming
the prime minister
election results: Viktor YUSHCHENKO elected president; percent of
vote - Viktor YUSHCHENKO 52%, Viktor YANUKOVYCH 44.2%


Legislative branch:

unicameral Supreme Council or Verkhovna Rada (450 seats; members
allocated on a proportional basis to those parties that gain 3% or
more of the national electoral vote; to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held 30 September 2007 (next to be held in 2012)
election results: percent of vote by party/bloc - Party of Regions
34.4%, Yuliya Tymoshenko Bloc 30.7%, Our Ukraine-People's Self
Defense 14.2%, CPU 5.4%, Lytvyn bloc 4%, other parties 11.3%; seats
by party/bloc - Party of Regions 175, Yuliya Tymoshenko Bloc 156,
Our Ukraine-People's Self Defense 72, CPU 27, Lytvyn bloc 20


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court; Constitutional Court


Political parties and leaders:

Christian Democratic Union [Volodymyr STRETOVYCH]; Communist Party
of Ukraine or CPU [Petro SYMONENKO]; European Party of Ukraine
[Mykola KATERYNCHUK]; Fatherland Party (Batkivshchyna) [Yuliya
TYMOSHENKO]; Forward Ukraine! [Viktor MUSIYAKA]; Labor Party of
Ukraine [Mykola SYROTA]; People's Union Our Ukraine [Vyacheslav
KYRYLENKO]; Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs [Anatoliy
KINAKH]; Party of the Defenders of the Fatherland [Yuriy Karmazin];
People's Movement of Ukraine (Rukh) [Borys TARASYUK]; People's Party
[Volodymyr LYTVYN]; PORA! (It's Time!) party [Vladyslav KASKIV];
Progressive Socialist Party [Natalya VITRENKO]; Reforms and Order
Party [Viktor PYNZENYK]; Party of Regions [Viktor YANUKOVYCH];
Republican Party [Yuriy BOYKO]; Sobor [Anatoliy MATVIYENKO]; Social
Democratic Party [Yevhen KORNICHUK]; Social Democratic Party
(United) or SDPU(o) [Yuriy ZAHORODNIY]; Socialist Party of Ukraine
or SPU [Oleksandr MOROZ]; Ukrainian People's Party [Yuriy KOSTENKO];
Viche [Inna BOHOSLOVSKA]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Committee of Voters of Ukraine [Ihor POPOV]; Peoples' Self-Defense
[Yuriy LUTSENKO]


International organization participation:

Australia Group, BSEC, CBSS (observer), CE, CEI, CIS, EAEC
(observer), EAPC, EBRD, FAO, GCTU, GUAM, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt
(signatory), ICRM, IDA, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO,
Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITU, ITUC, LAIA (observer), MIGA,
MONUC, NAM (observer), NSG, OAS (observer), OIF (observer), OPCW,
OSCE, PCA, PFP, SECI (observer), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIL,
UNMIS, UNOMIG, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Oleh V. SHAMSHUR
chancery: 3350 M Street NW, Washington, DC 20007
telephone: [1] (202) 333-0606
FAX: [1] (202) 333-0817
consulate(s) general: Chicago, New York, San Francisco


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador William B. TAYLOR Jr.
embassy: 10 Yurii Kotsiubynsky Street, 01901 Kyiv
mailing address: 5850 Kiev Place, Washington, DC 20521-5850
telephone: [380] (44) 490-4000
FAX: [380] (44) 490-4085


Flag description:

two equal horizontal bands of azure (top) and golden yellow
represent grain fields under a blue sky


Economy
Ukraine



Economy - overview:

After Russia, the Ukrainian republic was far and away the most
important economic component of the former Soviet Union, producing
about four times the output of the next-ranking republic. Its
fertile black soil generated more than one-fourth of Soviet
agricultural output, and its farms provided substantial quantities
of meat, milk, grain, and vegetables to other republics. Likewise,
its diversified heavy industry supplied the unique equipment (for
example, large diameter pipes) and raw materials to industrial and
mining sites (vertical drilling apparatus) in other regions of the
former USSR. Shortly after independence was ratified in December
1991, the Ukrainian Government liberalized most prices and erected a
legal framework for privatization, but widespread resistance to
reform within the government and the legislature soon stalled reform
efforts and led to some backtracking. Output by 1999 had fallen to
less than 40% of the 1991 level. Ukraine's dependence on Russia for
energy supplies and the lack of significant structural reform have
made the Ukrainian economy vulnerable to external shocks. Ukraine
depends on imports to meet about three-fourths of its annual oil and
natural gas requirements. A dispute with Russia over pricing in late
2005 and early 2006 led to a temporary gas cut-off; Ukraine
concluded a deal with Russia in January 2006 that almost doubled the
price Ukraine pays for Russian gas. Outside institutions -
particularly the IMF - have encouraged Ukraine to quicken the pace
and scope of reforms. Ukrainian Government officials eliminated most
tax and customs privileges in a March 2005 budget law, bringing more
economic activity out of Ukraine's large shadow economy, but more
improvements are needed, including fighting corruption, developing
capital markets, and improving the legislative framework. Ukraine's
economy remains buoyant despite political turmoil between the Prime
Minister and President. Real GDP growth reached about 7% in 2006-07,
fueled by high global prices for steel - Ukraine's top export - and
by strong domestic consumption, spurred by rising pensions and
wages. Although the economy is likely to expand in 2008, long-term
growth could be threatened by the government's plans to reinstate
tax, trade, and customs privileges and to maintain restrictive grain
export quotas.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$324.8 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$140.5 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

7.7% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$7,000 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 9%
industry: 32.2%
services: 58.8% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

21.58 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 25%
industry: 20%
services: 55% (1996)


Unemployment rate:

2.3% officially registered; large number of unregistered or
underemployed workers; the International Labor Organization
calculates that Ukraine's real unemployment level is nearly 7% (2007
est.)


Population below poverty line:

37.7% (2003)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 3.4%
highest 10%: 25.7% (2006)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

31 (2006)


Investment (gross fixed):

27.4% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $43.54 billion
expenditures: $45.06 billion; note - this is the planned,
consolidated budget (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

11.7% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

12.8% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

8% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

13.9% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$35.97 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$41.51 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$87.13 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

grain, sugar beets, sunflower seeds, vegetables; beef, milk


Industries:

coal, electric power, ferrous and nonferrous metals, machinery and
transport equipment, chemicals, food processing (especially sugar)


Industrial production growth rate:

6% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

182.4 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

148.1 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

12.52 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - imports:

2.082 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 48.6%
hydro: 7.9%
nuclear: 43.5%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

102,400 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

344,000 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

190,500 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

441,200 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

395 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

19.5 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

84.9 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

4 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

65.4 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

1.104 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$5.918 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$49.84 billion (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

ferrous and nonferrous metals, fuel and petroleum products,
chemicals, machinery and transport equipment, food products


Exports - partners:

Russia 23.3%, Turkey 7.9%, Italy 5.8% (2007)


Imports:

$60.41 billion (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

energy, machinery and equipment, chemicals


Imports - partners:

Russia 23.9%, Germany 11.8%, China 8.5%, Poland 8.1%, Turkmenistan
5.4% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$409.6 million (1995); IMF Extended Funds Facility $2.2 billion
(2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$32.48 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$69.04 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$31.08 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$895 million (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$42.87 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

hryvnia (UAH)


Currency code:

UAH


Exchange rates:

hryvnia (UAH) per US dollar - 5.05 (2007), 5.05 (2006), 5.1247
(2005), 5.3192 (2004), 5.3327 (2003)


Communications
Ukraine



Telephones - main lines in use:

12.858 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

55.24 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: Ukraine's telecommunication development plan
emphasizes improving domestic trunk lines, international
connections, and the mobile-cellular system
domestic: at independence in December 1991, Ukraine inherited a
telephone system that was antiquated, inefficient, and in disrepair;
more than 3.5 million applications for telephones could not be
satisfied; telephone density is rising and the domestic trunk system
is being improved; about one-third of Ukraine's networks are digital
and a majority of regional centers now have digital switching
stations; improvements in local networks and local exchanges
continue to lag; the mobile-cellular telephone system is expanding
rapidly
international: country code - 380; 2 new domestic trunk lines are a
part of the fiber-optic Trans-Asia-Europe (TAE) system and 3
Ukrainian links have been installed in the fiber-optic
Trans-European Lines (TEL) project that connects 18 countries;
additional international service is provided by the
Italy-Turkey-Ukraine-Russia (ITUR) fiber-optic submarine cable and
by an unknown number of earth stations in the Intelsat, Inmarsat,
and Intersputnik satellite systems


Radio broadcast stations:

524 (station types NA) (2006)


Radios:

45.05 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

647 (2006)


Televisions:

18.05 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.ua


Internet hosts:

524,202 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

260 (2001)


Internet users:

10 million (2007)


Transportation
Ukraine



Airports:

437 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 193
over 3,047 m: 13
2,438 to 3,047 m: 53
1,524 to 2,437 m: 27
914 to 1,523 m: 5
under 914 m: 95 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 244
2,438 to 3,047 m: 3
1,524 to 2,437 m: 11
914 to 1,523 m: 13
under 914 m: 217 (2007)


Heliports:

10 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 33,721 km; oil 4,514 km; refined products 4,211 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 22,473 km
broad gauge: 22,473 km 1.524-m gauge (9,250 km electrified) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 169,422 km
paved: 165,611 km (includes 15 km of expressways)
unpaved: 3,811 km (2007)


Waterways:

2,253 km (most on Dnieper River) (2006)


Merchant marine:

total: 189
by type: bulk carrier 6, cargo 141, chemical tanker 1, container 3,
passenger 6, passenger/cargo 3, petroleum tanker 9, refrigerated
cargo 11, roll on/roll off 7, specialized tanker 2
foreign-owned: 2 (Luxembourg 1, Russia 1)
registered in other countries: 204 (Belize 7, Cambodia 34, Comoros
8, Cyprus 4, Dominica 4, Georgia 18, Liberia 25, Lithuania 1, Malta
30, Moldova 5, Mongolia 1, Panama 10, Russia 11, Saint Kitts and
Nevis 9, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 11, Sierra Leone 10,
Slovakia 12, Tuvalu 1, unknown 3) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Feodosiya, Kerch, Kherson, Mariupol', Mykolayiv, Odesa, Yuzhnyy


Military
Ukraine



Military branches:

Ground Forces, Naval Forces, Air Forces (Viyskovo-Povitryani Syly),
Air Defense Forces (2002)


Military service age and obligation:

18-25 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military service;
conscript service obligation - 18 months for Army and Air Force, 24
months for Navy (2004)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 11,457,562
females age 16-49: 11,767,357 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 7,141,814
females age 16-49: 9,428,876 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 288,605
female: 276,324 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.4% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Ukraine



Disputes - international:

1997 boundary delimitation treaty with Belarus remains un-ratified
due to unresolved financial claims, stalling demarcation and
reducing border security; delimitation of land boundary with Russia
is complete with preparations for demarcation underway; the dispute
over the boundary between Russia and Ukraine through the Kerch
Strait and Sea of Azov remains unresolved despite a December 2003
framework agreement and ongoing expert-level discussions; Moldova
and Ukraine operate joint customs posts to monitor transit of people
and commodities through Moldova's break-away Transnistria Region,
which remains under OSCE supervision; the ICJ gave Ukraine until
December 2006 to reply, and Romania until June 2007 to rejoin, in
their dispute submitted in 2004 over Ukrainian-administered
Zmiyinyy/Serpilor (Snake) Island and Black Sea maritime boundary;
Romania opposes Ukraine's reopening of a navigation canal from the
Danube border through Ukraine to the Black Sea


Illicit drugs:

limited cultivation of cannabis and opium poppy, mostly for CIS
consumption; some synthetic drug production for export to the West;
limited government eradication program; used as transshipment point
for opiates and other illicit drugs from Africa, Latin America, and
Turkey to Europe and Russia; Ukraine has improved
anti-money-laundering controls, resulting in its removal from the
Financial Action Task Force's (FATF's) Noncooperative Countries and
Territories List in February 2004; Ukraine's anti-money-laundering
regime continues to be monitored by FATF



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@United Arab Emirates

Introduction
United Arab Emirates



Background:

The Trucial States of the Persian Gulf coast granted the UK control
of their defense and foreign affairs in 19th century treaties. In
1971, six of these states - Abu Zaby, 'Ajman, Al Fujayrah, Ash
Shariqah, Dubayy, and Umm al Qaywayn - merged to form the United
Arab Emirates (UAE). They were joined in 1972 by Ra's al Khaymah.
The UAE's per capita GDP is on par with those of leading West
European nations. Its generosity with oil revenues and its moderate
foreign policy stance have allowed the UAE to play a vital role in
the affairs of the region.


Geography
United Arab Emirates



Location:

Middle East, bordering the Gulf of Oman and the Persian Gulf,
between Oman and Saudi Arabia


Geographic coordinates:

24 00 N, 54 00 E


Map references:

Middle East


Area:

total: 83,600 sq km
land: 83,600 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Maine


Land boundaries:

total: 867 km
border countries: Oman 410 km, Saudi Arabia 457 km


Coastline:

1,318 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin


Climate:

desert; cooler in eastern mountains


Terrain:

flat, barren coastal plain merging into rolling sand dunes of vast
desert wasteland; mountains in east


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Persian Gulf 0 m
highest point: Jabal Yibir 1,527 m


Natural resources:

petroleum, natural gas


Land use:

arable land: 0.77%
permanent crops: 2.27%
other: 96.96% (2005)


Irrigated land:

760 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

0.2 cu km (1997)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 2.3 cu km/yr (23%/9%/68%)
per capita: 511 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

frequent sand and dust storms


Environment - current issues:

lack of natural freshwater resources compensated by desalination
plants; desertification; beach pollution from oil spills


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection
signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea


Geography - note:

strategic location along southern approaches to Strait of Hormuz, a
vital transit point for world crude oil


People
United Arab Emirates



Population:

4,621,399
note: estimate is based on the results of the 2005 census that
included a significantly higher estimate of net inmigration of
non-citizens than previous estimates (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 20.5% (male 484,102/female 462,405)
15-64 years: 78.6% (male 2,663,702/female 970,672)
65 years and over: 0.9% (male 26,244/female 14,274)
note: 73.9% of the population in the 15-64 age group is non-national
(2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 30.1 years
male: 32 years
female: 24.6 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

3.833% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

16.06 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

2.13 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

24.41 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 2.74 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 1.84 male(s)/female
total population: 2.19 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 13.11 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 15.32 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 10.8 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 75.89 years
male: 73.35 years
female: 78.56 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.43 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.18% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Emirati(s)
adjective: Emirati


Ethnic groups:

Emirati 19%, other Arab and Iranian 23%, South Asian 50%, other
expatriates (includes Westerners and East Asians) 8% (1982)
note: less than 20% are UAE citizens (1982)


Religions:

Muslim 96% (Shia 16%), other (includes Christian, Hindu) 4%


Languages:

Arabic (official), Persian, English, Hindi, Urdu


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 77.9%
male: 76.1%
female: 81.7% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 11 years
male: 11 years
female: 12 years (2003)


Education expenditures:

1.3% of GDP (2005)


Government
United Arab Emirates



Country name:

conventional long form: United Arab Emirates
conventional short form: none
local long form: Al Imarat al Arabiyah al Muttahidah
local short form: none
former: Trucial Oman, Trucial States
abbreviation: UAE


Government type:

federation with specified powers delegated to the UAE federal
government and other powers reserved to member emirates


Capital:

name: Abu Dhabi
geographic coordinates: 24 28 N, 54 22 E
time difference: UTC+4 (9 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

7 emirates (imarat, singular - imarah); Abu Zaby (Abu Dhabi),
'Ajman, Al Fujayrah, Ash Shariqah (Sharjah), Dubayy (Dubai), Ra's al
Khaymah, Umm al Qaywayn (Quwayn)


Independence:

2 December 1971 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 2 December (1971)


Constitution:

2 December 1971; made permanent in 1996


Legal system:

based on a dual system of Sharia and civil courts; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

none


Executive branch:

chief of state: President KHALIFA bin Zayid Al-Nuhayyan (since 3
November 2004), ruler of Abu Zaby (Abu Dhabi) (since 4 November
2004); Vice President and Prime Minister MUHAMMAD BIN RASHID
Al-Maktum (since 5 January 2006)
head of government: Prime Minister and Vice President MUHAMMAD bin
Rashid Al-Maktum (since 5 January 2006); Deputy Prime Ministers
SULTAN bin Zayid Al-Nuhayyan (since 20 November 1990) and HAMDAN bin
Zayid Al-Nuhayyan (since 20 October 2003)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
note: there is also a Federal Supreme Council (FSC) composed of the
seven emirate rulers; the FSC is the highest constitutional
authority in the UAE; establishes general policies and sanctions
federal legislation; meets four times a year; Abu Zaby (Abu Dhabi)
and Dubayy (Dubai) rulers have effective veto power
elections: president and vice president elected by the FSC for
five-year terms (no term limits); election last held 3 November 2004
upon the death of the UAE's Founding Father and first President
ZAYID bin Sultan Al Nuhayyan (next to be held in 2009); prime
minister and deputy prime minister appointed by the president
election results: KHALIFA bin Zayid Al-Nuhayyan elected president by
a unanimous vote of the FSC; MUHAMMAD bin Rashid Al-Maktum
unanimously affirmed vice president after the 2006 death of his
brother Sheikh Maktum bin Rashid Al-Maktum


Legislative branch:

unicameral Federal National Council (FNC) or Majlis al-Ittihad
al-Watani (40 seats; 20 members appointed by the rulers of the
constituent states, 20 members elected to serve two-year terms)
elections: elections for one half of the FNC (the other half remains
appointed) held in the UAE on 18-20 December 2006; the new electoral
college - a body of 6,689 Emiratis (including 1,189 women) appointed
by the rulers of the seven emirates - were the only eligible voters
and candidates; 456 candidates including 65 women ran for 20
contested FNC seats; one female from the Emirate of Abu Dhabi won a
seat
note: reviews legislation but cannot change or veto


Judicial branch:

Union Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the president)


Political parties and leaders:

none


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

ABEDA, AFESD, AMF, FAO, G-77, GCC, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt
(signatory), ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, LAS, MIGA, NAM, OAPEC,
OIC, OPCW, OPEC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO,
WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Yousef bin Mani Saeed al-OTAIBA
chancery: 3522 International Court NW, Suite 400, Washington, DC
20008
telephone: [1] (202) 243-2400
FAX: [1] (202) 243-2432
consulate(s): New York, Houston


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Richard OLSON
embassy: Embassies District, Plot 38 Sector W59-02, Street No. 4,
Abu Dhabi
mailing address: P. O. Box 4009, Abu Dhabi
telephone: [971] (2) 414-2200
FAX: [971] (2) 414-2603
consulate(s) general: Dubai


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of green (top), white, and black with a
wider vertical red band on the hoist side


Economy
United Arab Emirates



Economy - overview:

The UAE has an open economy with a high per capita income and a
sizable annual trade surplus. Despite largely successful efforts at
economic diversification, nearly 40% of GDP is still directly based
on oil and gas output. Since the discovery of oil in the UAE more
than 30 years ago, the UAE has undergone a profound transformation
from an impoverished region of small desert principalities to a
modern state with a high standard of living. The government has
increased spending on job creation and infrastructure expansion and
is opening up utilities to greater private sector involvement. In
April 2004, the UAE signed a Trade and Investment Framework
Agreement with Washington and in November 2004 agreed to undertake
negotiations toward a Free Trade Agreement with the US. The
country's Free Trade Zones - offering 100% foreign ownership and
zero taxes - are helping to attract foreign investors. Higher oil
revenue, strong liquidity, housing shortages, and cheap credit in
2005-07 led to a surge in asset prices (shares and real estate) and
consumer inflation. Rising prices are increasing the operating costs
for businesses in the UAE and adversely impacting government
employees and others on fixed incomes. Dependence on oil and a large
expatriate workforce are significant long-term challenges. The UAE's
strategic plan for the next few years focuses on diversification and
creating more opportunities for nationals through improved education
and increased private sector employment.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$164.4 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$192.6 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

7.5% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$37,000 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 1.8%
industry: 60.6%
services: 37.6% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

3.065 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 7%
industry: 15%
services: 78% (2000 est.)


Unemployment rate:

2.4% (2001)


Population below poverty line:

19.5% (2003)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Investment (gross fixed):

20.3% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $68.27 billion
expenditures: $38.06 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

21.2% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

14% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

NA


Stock of money:

$49.5 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$104.6 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$155.4 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

dates, vegetables, watermelons; poultry, eggs, dairy products; fish


Industries:

petroleum and petrochemicals; fishing, aluminum, cement,
fertilizers, commercial ship repair, construction materials, some
boat building, handicrafts, textiles


Industrial production growth rate:

4.3% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

62.76 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

57.88 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

2.948 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

381,000 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

2.703 million bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - imports:

232,300 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

97.8 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

48.79 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

43.11 billion cu m (2006 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

6.848 billion cu m (2005 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

1.343 billion cu m (2005)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

6.071 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$34.53 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$178.9 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

crude oil 45%, natural gas, reexports, dried fish, dates


Exports - partners:

Japan 23.6%, South Korea 9.2%, Thailand 5%, India 4.8% (2007)


Imports:

$116.6 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and transport equipment, chemicals, food


Imports - partners:

China 12.8%, India 10%, US 8.7%, Japan 6.1%, Germany 5.9%, UK 5.3%,
Italy 4.6% (2007)


Economic aid - donor:

since its founding in 1971, the Abu Dhabi Fund for Development has
given about $5.2 billion in aid to 56 countries (2004)


Economic aid - recipient:

$5.36 million (2004)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$77.24 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$61.68 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$44.37 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$14.14 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$138.5 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

Emirati dirham (AED)


Currency code:

AED


Exchange rates:

Emirati dirhams (AED) per US dollar - 3.673 (2007), 3.673 (2006),
3.6725 (2005), 3.6725 (2004), 3.6725 (2003)
note: officially pegged to the US dollar since February 2002


Communications
United Arab Emirates



Telephones - main lines in use:

1.385 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

7.595 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: modern fiber-optic integrated services; digital
network with rapidly growing use of mobile-cellular telephones; key
centers are Abu Dhabi and Dubai
domestic: microwave radio relay, fiber optic and coaxial cable
international: country code - 971; linked to the international
submarine cable FLAG (Fiber-Optic Link Around the Globe); landing
point for both the SEA-ME-WE-3 and SEA-ME-WE-4 submarine cable
networks; satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (1 Atlantic Ocean
and 2 Indian Ocean) and 1 Arabsat; tropospheric scatter to Bahrain;
microwave radio relay to Saudi Arabia


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 13, FM 8, shortwave 2 (2004)


Radios:

820,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

15 (2004)


Televisions:

310,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.ae


Internet hosts:

381,915 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

2.3 million (2007)


Transportation
United Arab Emirates



Airports:

39 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 22
over 3,047 m: 10
2,438 to 3,047 m: 3
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 4
under 914 m: 3 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 17
over 3,047 m: 2
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
914 to 1,523 m: 5
under 914 m: 5 (2007)


Heliports:

5 (2007)


Pipelines:

condensate 520 km; gas 2,908 km; liquid petroleum gas 300 km; oil
2,950 km; oil/gas/water 5 km; refined products 156 km (2007)


Roadways:

total: 4,080 km
paved: 4,080 km (includes 253 km of expressways) (2008)


Merchant marine:

total: 58
by type: bulk carrier 6, cargo 9, chemical tanker 4, container 8,
liquefied gas 1, passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 24, roll
on/roll off 4, specialized tanker 1
foreign-owned: 14 (Denmark 1, Greece 3, Kuwait 10)
registered in other countries: 313 (Bahamas 23, Bahrain 1, Belize 5,
Cambodia 2, Comoros 7, Cyprus 9, Dominica 1, Georgia 1, Gibraltar 3,
Hong Kong 1, India 6, Indonesia 2, Iran 1, Jordan 13, North Korea 8,
Liberia 23, Malta 5, Marshall Islands 15, Mexico 1, Netherlands 5,
Panama 109, Papua New Guinea 6, Philippines 1, Saint Kitts and Nevis
18, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 9, Saudi Arabia 1, Sierra Leone
8, Singapore 12, Somalia 1, Turkey 1, UK 9, unknown 6) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Mina' Zayid (Abu Dhabi), Al Fujayrah, Mina' Jabal 'Ali (Dubai),
Mina' Rashid (Dubai), Mina' Saqr (Ra's al Khaymah), Khawr Fakkan
(Sharjah)


Military
United Arab Emirates



Military branches:

United Arab Emirates Armed Forces: Army, Navy (includes Marines),
Air Force and Air Defense, National Coast Guard (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age (est.) for voluntary military service; 18 years of
age for officers and women; no conscription (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,405,884 (includes non-nationals)
females age 16-49: 884,853 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,004,558
females age 16-49: 760,637 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 25,856
female: 23,085 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

3.1% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
United Arab Emirates



Disputes - international:

boundary agreement was signed and ratified with Oman in 2003 for
entire border, including Oman's Musandam Peninsula and Al Madhah
enclaves, but contents of the agreement and detailed maps showing
the alignment have not been published; Iran and UAE dispute Tunb
Islands and Abu Musa Island, which Iran occupies


Illicit drugs:

the UAE is a drug transshipment point for traffickers given its
proximity to Southwest Asian drug-producing countries; the UAE's
position as a major financial center makes it vulnerable to money
laundering; anti-money-laundering controls improving, but informal
banking remains unregulated



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@United Kingdom

Introduction
United Kingdom



Background:

As the dominant industrial and maritime power of the 19th century,
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland played a leading
role in developing parliamentary democracy and in advancing
literature and science. At its zenith, the British Empire stretched
over one-fourth of the earth's surface. The first half of the 20th
century saw the UK's strength seriously depleted in two World Wars
and the Irish republic withdraw from the union. The second half
witnessed the dismantling of the Empire and the UK rebuilding itself
into a modern and prosperous European nation. As one of five
permanent members of the UN Security Council, a founding member of
NATO, and of the Commonwealth, the UK pursues a global approach to
foreign policy; it currently is weighing the degree of its
integration with continental Europe. A member of the EU, it chose to
remain outside the Economic and Monetary Union for the time being.
Constitutional reform is also a significant issue in the UK. The
Scottish Parliament, the National Assembly for Wales, and the
Northern Ireland Assembly were established in 1999, but the latter
was suspended until May 2007 due to wrangling over the peace process.


Geography
United Kingdom



Location:

Western Europe, islands including the northern one-sixth of the
island of Ireland between the North Atlantic Ocean and the North
Sea, northwest of France


Geographic coordinates:

54 00 N, 2 00 W


Map references:

Europe


Area:

total: 244,820 sq km
land: 241,590 sq km
water: 3,230 sq km
note: includes Rockall and Shetland Islands


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Oregon


Land boundaries:

total: 360 km
border countries: Ireland 360 km


Coastline:

12,429 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: as defined in continental shelf orders or in
accordance with agreed upon boundaries


Climate:

temperate; moderated by prevailing southwest winds over the North
Atlantic Current; more than one-half of the days are overcast


Terrain:

mostly rugged hills and low mountains; level to rolling plains in
east and southeast


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: The Fens -4 m
highest point: Ben Nevis 1,343 m


Natural resources:

coal, petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, lead, zinc, gold, tin,
limestone, salt, clay, chalk, gypsum, potash, silica sand, slate,
arable land


Land use:

arable land: 23.23%
permanent crops: 0.2%
other: 76.57% (2005)


Irrigated land:

1,700 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

160.6 cu km (2005)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 11.75 cu km/yr (22%/75%/3%)
per capita: 197 cu m/yr (1994)


Natural hazards:

winter windstorms; floods


Environment - current issues:

continues to reduce greenhouse gas emissions (has met Kyoto Protocol
target of a 12.5% reduction from 1990 levels and intends to meet the
legally binding target and move toward a domestic goal of a 20% cut
in emissions by 2010); by 2005 the government reduced the amount of
industrial and commercial waste disposed of in landfill sites to 85%
of 1998 levels and recycled or composted at least 25% of household
waste, increasing to 33% by 2015


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94,
Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic-Environmental
Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals,
Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

lies near vital North Atlantic sea lanes; only 35 km from France and
linked by tunnel under the English Channel; because of heavily
indented coastline, no location is more than 125 km from tidal waters


People
United Kingdom



Population:

60,943,912 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 16.9% (male 5,287,590/female 5,036,881)
15-64 years: 67.1% (male 20,698,645/female 20,185,040)
65 years and over: 16% (male 4,186,561/female 5,549,195) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 39.9 years
male: 38.8 years
female: 41 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.276% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

10.65 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

10.05 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

2.17 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.75 male(s)/female
total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 4.93 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 5.49 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 4.34 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 78.85 years
male: 76.37 years
female: 81.46 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.66 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.2% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

51,000 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 500 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Briton(s), British (collective plural)
adjective: British


Ethnic groups:

white (of which English 83.6%, Scottish 8.6%, Welsh 4.9%, Northern
Irish 2.9%) 92.1%, black 2%, Indian 1.8%, Pakistani 1.3%, mixed
1.2%, other 1.6% (2001 census)


Religions:

Christian (Anglican, Roman Catholic, Presbyterian, Methodist) 71.6%,
Muslim 2.7%, Hindu 1%, other 1.6%, unspecified or none 23.1% (2001
census)


Languages:

English, Welsh (about 26% of the population of Wales), Scottish form
of Gaelic (about 60,000 in Scotland)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over has completed five or more years of
schooling
total population: 99%
male: 99%
female: 99% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 16 years
male: 16 years
female: 17 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

5.6% of GDP (2005)


Government
United Kingdom



Country name:

conventional long form: United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland; note - Great Britain includes England, Scotland, and Wales
conventional short form: United Kingdom
abbreviation: UK


Government type:

constitutional monarchy


Capital:

name: London
geographic coordinates: 51 30 N, 0 10 W
time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
Sunday in October
note: applies to the United Kingdom proper, not to its overseas
dependencies or territories


Administrative divisions:

England: 34 two-tier counties, 32 London boroughs and 1 City of
London or Greater London, 36 metropolitan counties, 46 unitary
authorities
two-tier counties: Bedfordshire, Buckinghamshire, Cambridgeshire,
Cheshire, Cornwall and Isles of Scilly, Cumbria, Derbyshire, Devon,
Dorset, Durham, East Sussex, Essex, Gloucestershire, Hampshire,
Hertfordshire, Kent, Lancashire, Leicestershire, Lincolnshire,
Norfolk, North Yorkshire, Northamptonshire, Northumberland,
Nottinghamshire, Oxfordshire, Shropshire, Somerset, Staffordshire,
Suffolk, Surrey, Warwickshire, West Sussex, Wiltshire, Worcestershire
London boroughs and City of London or Greater London: Barking and
Dagenham, Barnet, Bexley, Brent, Bromley, Camden, Croydon, Ealing,
Enfield, Greenwich, Hackney, Hammersmith and Fulham, Haringey,
Harrow, Havering, Hillingdon, Hounslow, Islington, Kensington and
Chelsea, Kingston upon Thames, Lambeth, Lewisham, City of London,
Merton, Newham, Redbridge, Richmond upon Thames, Southwark, Sutton,
Tower Hamlets, Waltham Forest, Wandsworth, Westminster
metropolitan counties: Barnsley, Birmingham, Bolton, Bradford, Bury,
Calderdale, Coventry, Doncaster, Dudley, Gateshead, Kirklees,
Knowlsey, Leeds, Liverpool, Manchester, Newcastle upon Tyne, North
Tyneside, Oldham, Rochdale, Rotherham, Salford, Sandwell, Sefton,
Sheffield, Solihull, South Tyneside, St. Helens, Stockport,
Sunderland, Tameside, Trafford, Wakefield, Walsall, Wigan, Wirral,
Wolverhampton
unitary authorities: Bath and North East Somerset, Blackburn with
Darwen, Blackpool, Bournemouth, Bracknell Forest, Brighton and Hove,
City of Bristol, Darlington, Derby, East Riding of Yorkshire,
Halton, Hartlepool, County of Herefordshire, Isle of Wight, City of
Kingston upon Hull, Leicester, Luton, Medway, Middlesbrough, Milton
Keynes, North East Lincolnshire, North Lincolnshire, North Somerset,
Nottingham, Peterborough, Plymouth, Poole, Portsmouth, Reading,
Redcar and Cleveland, Rutland, Slough, South Gloucestershire,
Southampton, Southend-on-Sea, Stockton-on-Tees, Stoke-on-Trent,
Swindon, Telford and Wrekin, Thurrock, Torbay, Warrington, West
Berkshire, Windsor and Maidenhead, Wokingham, York
Northern Ireland: 26 district council areas
district council areas: Antrim, Ards, Armagh, Ballymena, Ballymoney,
Banbridge, Belfast, Carrickfergus, Castlereagh, Coleraine,
Cookstown, Craigavon, Derry, Down, Dungannon, Fermanagh, Larne,
Limavady, Lisburn, Magherafelt, Moyle, Newry and Mourne,
Newtownabbey, North Down, Omagh, Strabane
Scotland: 32 unitary authorities
unitary authorities: Aberdeen City, Aberdeenshire, Angus, Argyll and
Bute, Clackmannanshire, Dumfries and Galloway, Dundee City, East
Ayrshire, East Dunbartonshire, East Lothian, East Renfrewshire, City
of Edinburgh, Eilean Siar (Western Isles), Falkirk, Fife, Glasgow
City, Highland, Inverclyde, Midlothian, Moray, North Ayrshire, North
Lanarkshire, Orkney Islands, Perth and Kinross, Renfrewshire,
Shetland Islands, South Ayrshire, South Lanarkshire, Stirling, The
Scottish Borders, West Dunbartonshire, West Lothian
Wales: 22 unitary authorities
unitary authorities: Blaenau Gwent; Bridgend; Caerphilly; Cardiff;
Carmarthenshire; Ceredigion; Conwy; Denbighshire; Flintshire;
Gwynedd; Isle of Anglesey; Merthyr Tydfil; Monmouthshire; Neath Port
Talbot; Newport; Pembrokeshire; Powys; Rhondda, Cynon, Taff;
Swansea; The Vale of Glamorgan; Torfaen; Wrexham


Dependent areas:

Anguilla, Bermuda, British Indian Ocean Territory, British Virgin
Islands, Cayman Islands, Falkland Islands, Gibraltar, Montserrat,
Pitcairn Islands, Saint Helena, South Georgia and the South Sandwich
Islands, Turks and Caicos Islands


Independence:

England has existed as a unified entity since the 10th century; the
union between England and Wales, begun in 1284 with the Statute of
Rhuddlan, was not formalized until 1536 with an Act of Union; in
another Act of Union in 1707, England and Scotland agreed to
permanently join as Great Britain; the legislative union of Great
Britain and Ireland was implemented in 1801, with the adoption of
the name the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland; the
Anglo-Irish treaty of 1921 formalized a partition of Ireland; six
northern Irish counties remained part of the United Kingdom as
Northern Ireland and the current name of the country, the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, was adopted in 1927


National holiday:

the UK does not celebrate one particular national holiday


Constitution:

unwritten; partly statutes, partly common law and practice


Legal system:

based on common law tradition with early Roman and modern
continental influences; has nonbinding judicial review of Acts of
Parliament under the Human Rights Act of 1998; accepts compulsory
ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952); Heir
Apparent Prince CHARLES (son of the queen, born 14 November 1948)
head of government: Prime Minister James Gordon BROWN (since 27 June
2007)
cabinet: Cabinet of Ministers appointed by the prime minister
elections: the monarchy is hereditary; following legislative
elections, the leader of the majority party or the leader of the
majority coalition is usually the prime minister


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament consists of House of Lords (618 seats;
consisting of approximately 500 life peers, 92 hereditary peers, and
26 clergy) and House of Commons (646 seats since 2005 elections;
members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms unless
the House is dissolved earlier)
elections: House of Lords - no elections (note - in 1999, as
provided by the House of Lords Act, elections were held in the House
of Lords to determine the 92 hereditary peers who would remain
there; elections are held only as vacancies in the hereditary
peerage arise); House of Commons - last held 5 May 2005 (next to be
held by May 2010)
election results: House of Commons - percent of vote by party -
Labor 35.2%, Conservative 32.3%, Liberal Democrats 22%, other 10.5%;
seats by party - Labor 355, Conservative 198, Liberal Democrat 62,
other 31; seats by party in the House of Commons as of 4 June 2008 -
Labor 351, Conservative 192, Liberal Democrat 63, Scottish National
Party/Plaid Cymru 9, Democratic Unionist 9, Sinn Fein 5, other 17
note: in 1998 elections were held for a Northern Ireland Assembly
(because of unresolved disputes among existing parties, the transfer
of power from London to Northern Ireland came only at the end of
1999 and has been suspended four times, the latest occurring in
October 2002 and lasting until 8 May 2007); in 1999, the UK held the
first elections for a Scottish Parliament and a Welsh Assembly, the
most recent of which were held in May 2007


Judicial branch:

House of Lords (highest court of appeal; several Lords of Appeal in
Ordinary are appointed by the monarch for life); Supreme Courts of
England, Wales, and Northern Ireland (comprising the Courts of
Appeal, the High Courts of Justice, and the Crown Courts);
Scotland's Court of Session and Court of the Justiciary


Political parties and leaders:

Conservative [David CAMERON]; Democratic Unionist Party (Northern
Ireland) [Peter ROBINSON]; Labor Party [Gordon BROWN]; Liberal
Democrats [Nick CLEGG]; Party of Wales (Plaid Cymru) [Ieuan Wyn
JONES]; Scottish National Party or SNP [Alex SALMOND]; Sinn Fein
(Northern Ireland) [Gerry ADAMS]; Social Democratic and Labor Party
or SDLP (Northern Ireland) [Mark DURKAN]; Ulster Unionist Party
(Northern Ireland) [Sir Reg EMPEY]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament; Confederation of British Industry;
National Farmers' Union; Trades Union Congress


International organization participation:

ADB (nonregional members), AfDB (nonregional members), Arctic
Council (observer), Australia Group, BIS, C, CBSS (observer), CDB,
CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, ESA, EU, FAO, G-5, G-7, G-8, G-10, IADB,
IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO,
ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC,
MIGA, NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, Paris Club,
PCA, PIF (partner), SECI (observer), UN, UN Security Council,
UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOMIG,
UNRWA, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WEU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Sir Nigel E. SHEINWALD
chancery: 3100 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 588-6500
FAX: [1] (202) 588-7870
consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los
Angeles, Miami, New York, San Francisco
consulate(s): Denver, Orlando


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Robert Holmes TUTTLE
embassy: 24 Grosvenor Square, London, W1A 1AE
mailing address: PSC 801, Box 40, FPO AE 09498-4040
telephone: [44] (0) 20 7499-9000
FAX: [44] (0) 20 7629-9124
consulate(s) general: Belfast, Edinburgh


Flag description:

blue field with the red cross of Saint George (patron saint of
England) edged in white superimposed on the diagonal red cross of
Saint Patrick (patron saint of Ireland), which is superimposed on
the diagonal white cross of Saint Andrew (patron saint of Scotland);
properly known as the Union Flag, but commonly called the Union
Jack; the design and colors (especially the Blue Ensign) have been
the basis for a number of other flags including other Commonwealth
countries and their constituent states or provinces, and British
overseas territories


Economy
United Kingdom



Economy - overview:

The UK, a leading trading power and financial center, is one of the
quintet of trillion dollar economies of Western Europe. Over the
past two decades, the government has greatly reduced public
ownership and contained the growth of social welfare programs.
Agriculture is intensive, highly mechanized, and efficient by
European standards, producing about 60% of food needs with less than
2% of the labor force. The UK has large coal, natural gas, and oil
reserves; primary energy production accounts for 10% of GDP, one of
the highest shares of any industrial nation. Services, particularly
banking, insurance, and business services, account by far for the
largest proportion of GDP while industry continues to decline in
importance. Since emerging from recession in 1992, Britain's economy
has enjoyed the longest period of expansion on record; growth has
remained in the 2-3% range since 2004, outpacing most of Europe. The
economy's strength has complicated the Labor government's efforts to
make a case for Britain to join the European Economic and Monetary
Union (EMU). Critics point out that the economy is doing well
outside of EMU, and public opinion polls show a majority of Britons
are opposed to the euro. The BROWN government has been speeding up
the improvement of education, health services, and affordable
housing at a cost in higher taxes and a widening public deficit.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$2.13 trillion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$2.773 trillion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

3.1% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$35,000 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 0.9%
industry: 23.4%
services: 75.7% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

30.89 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 1.4%
industry: 18.2%
services: 80.4% (2006 est.)


Unemployment rate:

5.3% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

14% (2006 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.1%
highest 10%: 28.5% (1999)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

34 (2005)


Investment (gross fixed):

18.2% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $1.154 trillion
expenditures: $1.239 trillion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

6 April - 5 April


Public debt:

43.6% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.3% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

NA


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

5.52% (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$5.278 trillion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

cereals, oilseed, potatoes, vegetables; cattle, sheep, poultry; fish


Industries:

machine tools, electric power equipment, automation equipment,
railroad equipment, shipbuilding, aircraft, motor vehicles and
parts, electronics and communications equipment, metals, chemicals,
coal, petroleum, paper and paper products, food processing,
textiles, clothing, other consumer goods


Industrial production growth rate:

0.5% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

371 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

348.5 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

3.398 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

8.613 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 73.8%
hydro: 0.9%
nuclear: 23.7%
other: 1.6% (2001)


Oil - production:

1.69 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

1.763 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

1.749 million bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

1.673 million bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

3.6 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

72.3 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

91.1 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

10.4 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

29.2 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

412 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$119.2 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$442.2 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

manufactured goods, fuels, chemicals; food, beverages, tobacco


Exports - partners:

US 14.2%, Germany 11.1%, France 8.1%, Ireland 8%, Netherlands 6.8%,
Belgium 5.3%, Spain 4.5%, Italy 4.1% (2007)


Imports:

$621.4 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

manufactured goods, machinery, fuels; foodstuffs


Imports - partners:

Germany 14.2%, US 8.6%, China 7.3%, Netherlands 7.3%, France 6.9%,
Belgium 4.7%, Norway 4.7%, Italy 4.2% (2007)


Economic aid - donor:

ODA, $12.46 billion (2006)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$57.3 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$10.45 trillion (30 June 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$1.288 trillion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$1.707 trillion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$3.058 trillion (2005)


Currency (code):

British pound (GBP)


Currency code:

GBP


Exchange rates:

British pounds (GBP) per US dollar - 0.4993 (2007), 0.5418 (2006),
0.5493 (2005), 0.5462 (2004), 0.6125 (2003)


Communications
United Kingdom



Telephones - main lines in use:

33.682 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

71.992 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: technologically advanced domestic and
international system
domestic: equal mix of buried cables, microwave radio relay, and
fiber-optic systems
international: country code - 44; numerous submarine cables provide
links throughout Europe, Asia, Australia, the Middle East, and US;
satellite earth stations - 10 Intelsat (7 Atlantic Ocean and 3
Indian Ocean), 1 Inmarsat (Atlantic Ocean region), and 1 Eutelsat;
at least 8 large international switching centers


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 219, FM 431, shortwave 3 (1998)


Radios:

84.5 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

228 (plus 3,523 repeaters) (1995)


Televisions:

30.5 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.uk


Internet hosts:

8.269 million (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

more than 400 (2000)


Internet users:

40.2 million (2007)


Transportation
United Kingdom



Airports:

449 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 310
over 3,047 m: 8
2,438 to 3,047 m: 33
1,524 to 2,437 m: 131
914 to 1,523 m: 79
under 914 m: 59 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 139
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
914 to 1,523 m: 23
under 914 m: 113 (2007)


Heliports:

11 (2007)


Pipelines:

condensate 567 km; condensate/gas 22 km; gas 18,980 km; liquid
petroleum gas 59 km; oil 4,930 km; oil/gas/water 165 km; refined
products 4,444 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 16,567 km
broad gauge: 303 km 1.600-m gauge (in Northern Ireland)
standard gauge: 16,264 km 1.435-m gauge (5,361 km electrified) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 398,366 km
paved: 398,366 km (includes 3,520 km of expressways) (2006)


Waterways:

3,200 km (620 km used for commerce) (2003)


Merchant marine:

total: 518
by type: bulk carrier 33, cargo 67, carrier 5, chemical tanker 61,
container 180, liquefied gas 18, passenger 10, passenger/cargo 67,
petroleum tanker 23, refrigerated cargo 12, roll on/roll off 24,
vehicle carrier 18
foreign-owned: 264 (Cyprus 2, Denmark 62, Finland 1, France 23,
Germany 76, Hong Kong 2, Ireland 1, Italy 5, Japan 4, NZ 1, Norway
31, South Africa 3, Spain 1, Sweden 17, Switzerland 1, Taiwan 11,
Turkey 2, UAE 9, US 12)
registered in other countries: 391 (Algeria 11, Antigua and Barbuda
9, Argentina 4, Australia 5, Bahamas 56, Barbados 9, Belize 5,
Bermuda 3, Brunei 1, Cape Verde 1, Cayman Islands 3, Cyprus 19,
Gibraltar 2, Greece 32, Hong Kong 39, India 2, Italy 7, South Korea
1, Liberia 20, Luxembourg 8, Malta 19, Marshall Islands 18,
Netherlands 2, Norway 5, Panama 59, Saint Kitts and Nevis 3, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines 14, Sierra Leone 2, Singapore 17,
Slovakia 1, Spain 5, Sweden 2, Thailand 5, Tonga 1, US 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Dover, Felixstowe, Immingham, Liverpool, London, Southampton,
Teesport (England), Forth Ports, Hound Point (Scotland), Milford
Haven (Wales)


Military
United Kingdom



Military branches:

Army, Royal Navy (includes Royal Marines), Royal Air Force


Military service age and obligation:

16-33 years of age (officers 17-28) for voluntary military service
(with parental consent under 18); women serve in military services,
but are excluded from ground combat positions and some naval
postings; must be citizen of the UK, Commonwealth, or Republic of
Ireland; reservists serve a minimum of 3 years, to age 45 or 55; 16
years of age for voluntary military service by Nepalese citizens in
the Brigade of the Gurkhas; 16-34 years of age for voluntary
military service by Papua New Guinean citizens (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 14,729,500
females age 16-49: 14,125,600 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 12,121,602
females age 16-49: 11,616,582 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 400,927
female: 383,593 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

2.4% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
United Kingdom



Disputes - international:

in 2002, Gibraltar residents voted overwhelmingly by referendum to
reject any "shared sovereignty" arrangement between the UK and
Spain; the Government of Gibraltar insists on equal participation in
talks between the two countries; Spain disapproves of UK plans to
grant Gibraltar greater autonomy; Mauritius and Seychelles claim the
Chagos Archipelago (British Indian Ocean Territory), and its former
inhabitants since their eviction in 1965; most Chagossians reside in
Mauritius, and in 2001 were granted UK citizenship, where some have
since resettled; in May 2006, the High Court of London reversed the
UK Government's 2004 orders of council that banned habitation on the
islands; UK rejects sovereignty talks requested by Argentina, which
still claims the Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas) and South Georgia
and the South Sandwich Islands; territorial claim in Antarctica
(British Antarctic Territory) overlaps Argentine claim and partially
overlaps Chilean claim; Iceland, the UK, and Ireland dispute
Denmark's claim that the Faroe Islands' continental shelf extends
beyond 200 nm


Illicit drugs:

producer of limited amounts of synthetic drugs and synthetic
precursor chemicals; major consumer of Southwest Asian heroin, Latin
American cocaine, and synthetic drugs; money-laundering center



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@United States

Introduction
United States



Background:

Britain's American colonies broke with the mother country in 1776
and were recognized as the new nation of the United States of
America following the Treaty of Paris in 1783. During the 19th and
20th centuries, 37 new states were added to the original 13 as the
nation expanded across the North American continent and acquired a
number of overseas possessions. The two most traumatic experiences
in the nation's history were the Civil War (1861-65), in which a
northern Union of states defeated a secessionist Confederacy of 11
southern slave states, and the Great Depression of the 1930s, an
economic downturn during which about a quarter of the labor force
lost its jobs. Buoyed by victories in World Wars I and II and the
end of the Cold War in 1991, the US remains the world's most
powerful nation state. The economy is marked by steady growth, low
unemployment and inflation, and rapid advances in technology.


Geography
United States



Location:

North America, bordering both the North Atlantic Ocean and the North
Pacific Ocean, between Canada and Mexico


Geographic coordinates:

38 00 N, 97 00 W


Map references:

North America


Area:

total: 9,826,630 sq km
land: 9,161,923 sq km
water: 664,707 sq km
note: includes only the 50 states and District of Columbia


Area - comparative:

about half the size of Russia; about three-tenths the size of
Africa; about half the size of South America (or slightly larger
than Brazil); slightly larger than China; more than twice the size
of the European Union


Land boundaries:

total: 12,034 km
border countries: Canada 8,893 km (including 2,477 km with Alaska),
Mexico 3,141 km
note: US Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba is leased by the US and
is part of Cuba; the base boundary is 28 km


Coastline:

19,924 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: not specified


Climate:

mostly temperate, but tropical in Hawaii and Florida, arctic in
Alaska, semiarid in the great plains west of the Mississippi River,
and arid in the Great Basin of the southwest; low winter
temperatures in the northwest are ameliorated occasionally in
January and February by warm chinook winds from the eastern slopes
of the Rocky Mountains


Terrain:

vast central plain, mountains in west, hills and low mountains in
east; rugged mountains and broad river valleys in Alaska; rugged,
volcanic topography in Hawaii


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Death Valley -86 m
highest point: Mount McKinley 6,198 m


Natural resources:

coal, copper, lead, molybdenum, phosphates, uranium, bauxite, gold,
iron, mercury, nickel, potash, silver, tungsten, zinc, petroleum,
natural gas, timber
note: the US has the world's largest coal reserves with 491 billion
short tons accounting for 27% of the world's total


Land use:

arable land: 18.01%
permanent crops: 0.21%
other: 81.78% (2005)


Irrigated land:

223,850 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

3,069 cu km (1985)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 477 cu km/yr (13%/46%/41%)
per capita: 1,600 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

tsunamis, volcanoes, and earthquake activity around Pacific Basin;
hurricanes along the Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico coasts; tornadoes
in the midwest and southeast; mud slides in California; forest fires
in the west; flooding; permafrost in northern Alaska, a major
impediment to development


Environment - current issues:

air pollution resulting in acid rain in both the US and Canada; the
US is the largest single emitter of carbon dioxide from the burning
of fossil fuels; water pollution from runoff of pesticides and
fertilizers; limited natural fresh water resources in much of the
western part of the country require careful management;
desertification


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides,
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Climate Change, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Marine Dumping,
Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Biodiversity,
Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Hazardous Wastes


Geography - note:

world's third-largest country by size (after Russia and Canada) and
by population (after China and India); Mt. McKinley is highest point
in North America and Death Valley the lowest point on the continent


People
United States



Population:

303,824,640 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 20.1% (male 31,257,108/female 29,889,645)
15-64 years: 67.1% (male 101,825,901/female 102,161,823)
65 years and over: 12.7% (male 16,263,255/female 22,426,914) (2008
est.)


Median age:

total: 36.7 years
male: 35.4 years
female: 38.1 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.883% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

14.18 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

8.27 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

2.92 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.72 male(s)/female
total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 6.3 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 6.95 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 5.62 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 78.14 years
male: 75.29 years
female: 81.13 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.1 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.6% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

950,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

17,011 (2005 est.)


Nationality:

noun: American(s)
adjective: American


Ethnic groups:

white 79.96%, black 12.85%, Asian 4.43%, Amerindian and Alaska
native 0.97%, native Hawaiian and other Pacific islander 0.18%, two
or more races 1.61% (July 2007 estimate)
note: a separate listing for Hispanic is not included because the US
Census Bureau considers Hispanic to mean a person of Latin American
descent (including persons of Cuban, Mexican, or Puerto Rican
origin) living in the US who may be of any race or ethnic group
(white, black, Asian, etc.); about 15.1% of the total US population
is Hispanic


Religions:

Protestant 51.3%, Roman Catholic 23.9%, Mormon 1.7%, other Christian
1.6%, Jewish 1.7%, Buddhist 0.7%, Muslim 0.6%, other or unspecified
2.5%, unaffiliated 12.1%, none 4% (2007 est.)


Languages:

English 82.1%, Spanish 10.7%, other Indo-European 3.8%, Asian and
Pacific island 2.7%, other 0.7% (2000 census)
note: Hawaiian is an official language in the state of Hawaii


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99%
male: 99%
female: 99% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 16 years
male: 15 years
female: 16 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

5.3% of GDP (2005)


Government
United States



Country name:

conventional long form: United States of America
conventional short form: United States
abbreviation: US or USA


Government type:

Constitution-based federal republic; strong democratic tradition


Capital:

name: Washington, DC
geographic coordinates: 38 53 N, 77 02 W
time difference: UTC-5 (during Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins second Sunday in March; ends
first Sunday in November
note: the 50 United States cover six time zones


Administrative divisions:

50 states and 1 district*; Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas,
California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia*,
Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas,
Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan,
Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New
Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, North
Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South
Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia,
Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, Wyoming


Dependent areas:

American Samoa, Baker Island, Guam, Howland Island, Jarvis Island,
Johnston Atoll, Kingman Reef, Midway Islands, Navassa Island,
Northern Mariana Islands, Palmyra Atoll, Puerto Rico, Virgin
Islands, Wake Island
note: from 18 July 1947 until 1 October 1994, the US administered
the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands; it entered into a
political relationship with all four political units: the Northern
Mariana Islands is a commonwealth in political union with the US
(effective 3 November 1986); the Republic of the Marshall Islands
signed a Compact of Free Association with the US (effective 21
October 1986); the Federated States of Micronesia signed a Compact
of Free Association with the US (effective 3 November 1986); Palau
concluded a Compact of Free Association with the US (effective 1
October 1994)


Independence:

4 July 1776 (from Great Britain)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 4 July (1776)


Constitution:

17 September 1787, effective 4 March 1789


Legal system:

federal court system based on English common law; each state has its
own unique legal system, of which all but one (Louisiana, which is
still influenced by the Napoleonic Code) is based on English common
law; judicial review of legislative acts; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President George W. BUSH (since 20 January 2001);
Vice President Richard B. CHENEY (since 20 January 2001); note - the
president is both the chief of state and head of government
head of government: President George W. BUSH (since 20 January
2001); Vice President Richard B. CHENEY (since 20 January 2001)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president with Senate approval
elections: president and vice president elected on the same ticket
by a college of representatives who are elected directly from each
state; president and vice president serve four-year terms (eligible
for a second term); election last held 4 November 2008 (next to be
held on 6 November 2012)
election results: Barack H. OBAMA elected president; percent of
popular vote - Barack H. OBAMA 52.4%, John MCCAIN 46.3%, other 1.3%;
note - OBAMA is expected to assume office on 20 January 2009


Legislative branch:

bicameral Congress consists of the Senate (100 seats, 2 members are
elected from each state by popular vote to serve six-year terms;
one-third are elected every two years) and the House of
Representatives (435 seats; members are directly elected by popular
vote to serve two-year terms)
elections: Senate - last held 7 November 2006 (next to be held
November 2008); House of Representatives - last held 7 November 2006
(next to be held November 2008)
election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - Democratic Party 49, Republican Party 49, independent 2;
House of Representatives - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - Democratic Party 233, Republican Party 202


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (nine justices; nominated by the president and
confirmed with the advice and consent of the Senate; appointed to
serve for life); United States Courts of Appeal; United States
District Courts; State and County Courts


Political parties and leaders:

Democratic Party [Howard DEAN]; Green Party; Libertarian Party
[William (Bill) REDPATH]; Republican Party [Robert M. (Mike) DUNCAN]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

environmentalists; business groups; labor unions; churches; ethnic
groups; political action committees or PAC; health groups; education
groups; cuvuc griyos; youth groups; transportation groups;
agricultural groups; veterans groups; women's groups; reform lobbies


International organization participation:

ADB (nonregional members), AfDB (nonregional members), ANZUS, APEC,
Arctic Council, ARF, ASEAN (dialogue partner), Australia Group, BIS,
BSEC (observer), CBSS (observer), CE (observer), CERN (observer),
CP, EAPC, EBRD, FAO, G-5, G-7, G-8, G-10, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICC, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO,
IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA,
MINUSTAH, NAFTA, NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS, OECD, OPCW, OSCE, Paris Club,
PCA, PIF (partner), SAARC (observer), SECI (observer), SPC, UN, UN
Security Council, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNITAR, UNMIL, UNOMIG,
UNRWA, UNTSO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC


Flag description:

13 equal horizontal stripes of red (top and bottom) alternating with
white; there is a blue rectangle in the upper hoist-side corner
bearing 50 small, white, five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset
horizontal rows of six stars (top and bottom) alternating with rows
of five stars; the 50 stars represent the 50 states, the 13 stripes
represent the 13 original colonies; known as Old Glory; the design
and colors have been the basis for a number of other flags,
including Chile, Liberia, Malaysia, and Puerto Rico


Economy
United States



Economy - overview:

The US has the largest and most technologically powerful economy in
the world, with a per capita GDP of $46,000. In this market-oriented
economy, private individuals and business firms make most of the
decisions, and the federal and state governments buy needed goods
and services predominantly in the private marketplace. US business
firms enjoy greater flexibility than their counterparts in Western
Europe and Japan in decisions to expand capital plant, to lay off
surplus workers, and to develop new products. At the same time, they
face higher barriers to enter their rivals' home markets than
foreign firms face entering US markets. US firms are at or near the
forefront in technological advances, especially in computers and in
medical, aerospace, and military equipment; their advantage has
narrowed since the end of World War II. The onrush of technology
largely explains the gradual development of a "two-tier labor
market" in which those at the bottom lack the education and the
professional/technical skills of those at the top and, more and
more, fail to get comparable pay raises, health insurance coverage,
and other benefits. Since 1975, practically all the gains in
household income have gone to the top 20% of households. The
response to the terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001 showed the
remarkable resilience of the economy. The war in March-April 2003
between a US-led coalition and Iraq, and the subsequent occupation
of Iraq, required major shifts in national resources to the
military. The rise in GDP in 2004-07 was undergirded by substantial
gains in labor productivity. Hurricane Katrina caused extensive
damage in the Gulf Coast region in August 2005, but had a small
impact on overall GDP growth for the year. Soaring oil prices in
2005-2007 threatened inflation and unemployment, yet the economy
continued to grow through year-end 2007. Imported oil accounts for
about two-thirds of US consumption. Long-term problems include
inadequate investment in economic infrastructure, rapidly rising
medical and pension costs of an aging population, sizable trade and
budget deficits, and stagnation of family income in the lower
economic groups. The merchandise trade deficit reached a record $847
billion in 2007. Together, these problems caused a marked reduction
in the value and status of the dollar worldwide in 2007.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$13.78 trillion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$13.84 trillion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

2% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$45,800 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 1.2%
industry: 19.8%
services: 79% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

153.1 million (includes unemployed) (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

farming, forestry, and fishing 0.6%, manufacturing, extraction,
transportation, and crafts 22.6%, managerial, professional, and
technical 35.5%, sales and office 24.8%, other services 16.5%
note: figures exclude the unemployed (2007)


Unemployment rate:

4.6% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

12% (2004 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2%
highest 10%: 30% (2007 est.)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

45 (2007)


Investment (gross fixed):

15.5% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $2.568 trillion
expenditures: $2.73 trillion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

1 October - 30 September


Public debt:

60.8% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.9% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

4.83% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

8.05% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$1.374 trillion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$10.1 trillion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$14.15 trillion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

wheat, corn, other grains, fruits, vegetables, cotton; beef, pork,
poultry, dairy products; fish; forest products


Industries:

leading industrial power in the world, highly diversified and
technologically advanced; petroleum, steel, motor vehicles,
aerospace, telecommunications, chemicals, electronics, food
processing, consumer goods, lumber, mining


Industrial production growth rate:

-1.7% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

4.167 trillion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

3.892 trillion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - exports:

20.14 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

51.4 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 71.4%
hydro: 5.6%
nuclear: 20.7%
other: 2.3% (2001)


Oil - production:

8.457 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

20.68 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

1.165 million bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

13.71 million bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

20.97 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

545.9 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

652.9 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

23.28 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

130.3 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

5.977 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$731.2 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$1.148 trillion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

agricultural products (soybeans, fruit, corn) 9.2%, industrial
supplies (organic chemicals) 26.8%, capital goods (transistors,
aircraft, motor vehicle parts, computers, telecommunications
equipment) 49.0%, consumer goods (automobiles, medicines) 15.0%
(2003)


Exports - partners:

Canada 21.4%, Mexico 11.7%, China 5.6%, Japan 5.4%, UK 4.3%, Germany
4.3% (2007)


Imports:

$1.968 trillion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

agricultural products 4.9%, industrial supplies 32.9% (crude oil
8.2%), capital goods 30.4% (computers, telecommunications equipment,
motor vehicle parts, office machines, electric power machinery),
consumer goods 31.8% (automobiles, clothing, medicines, furniture,
toys) (2003)


Imports - partners:

China 16.9%, Canada 15.7%, Mexico 10.6%, Japan 7.4%, Germany 4.8%
(2007)


Economic aid - donor:

ODA, $23.53 billion (2006)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$70.57 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$12.25 trillion (30 June 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$2.093 trillion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$2.791 trillion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$17 trillion (2005)


Currency (code):

US dollar (USD)


Currency code:

USD


Exchange rates:

British pounds per US dollar: 0.4993 (2007), 0.5418 (2006), 0.5493
(2005), 0.5462 (2004), 0.6125 (2003)
Canadian dollars per US dollar: 1.0724 (2007), 1.1334 (2006), 1.2118
(2005), 1.3010 (2004), 1.4011 (2003)
Japanese yen per US dollar: 117.99 (2007), 116.18 (2006) 110.22
(2005), 108.19 (2004), 115.93 (2003)
euros per US dollar: 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006), 0.8041 (2005),
0.8054 (2004), 0.8860 (2003)
Chinese yuan per US dollar: 7.61 (2007), 7.97 (2006), 8.1943 (2005),
8.2768 (2004), 8.2770 (2003)


Communications
United States



Telephones - main lines in use:

163.2 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

255 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: a large, technologically advanced, multipurpose
communications system
domestic: a large system of fiber-optic cable, microwave radio
relay, coaxial cable, and domestic satellites carries every form of
telephone traffic; a rapidly growing cellular system carries mobile
telephone traffic throughout the country
international: country code - 1; multiple ocean cable systems
provide international connectivity; satellite earth stations - 61
Intelsat (45 Atlantic Ocean and 16 Pacific Ocean), 5 Intersputnik
(Atlantic Ocean region), and 4 Inmarsat (Pacific and Atlantic Ocean
regions) (2000)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 4,789, FM 8,961, shortwave 19 (2006)


Radios:

575 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

2,218 (2006)


Televisions:

219 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.us


Internet hosts:

316 million (2008); note - the US Internet total host count includes
the following top level domain host addresses: .us, .com, .edu,
.gov, .mil, .net, and .org


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

7,000 (2002 est.)


Internet users:

223 million (2008)


Transportation
United States



Airports:

14,947 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 5,143
over 3,047 m: 191
2,438 to 3,047 m: 224
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1,452
914 to 1,523 m: 2,323
under 914 m: 953 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 9,804
2,438 to 3,047 m: 7
1,524 to 2,437 m: 153
914 to 1,523 m: 1,732
under 914 m: 7,912 (2007)


Heliports:

146 (2007)


Pipelines:

petroleum products 244,620 km; natural gas 548,665 km (2006)


Railways:

total: 226,612 km
standard gauge: 226,612 km 1.435-m gauge (2005)


Roadways:

total: 6,465,799 km
paved: 4,209,835 km (includes 75,040 km of expressways)
unpaved: 2,255,964 km (2007)


Waterways:

41,009 km (19,312 km used for commerce)
note: Saint Lawrence Seaway of 3,769 km, including the Saint
Lawrence River of 3,058 km, shared with Canada (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 422
by type: barge carrier 6, bulk carrier 61, cargo 69, carrier 2,
chemical tanker 22, container 81, passenger 19, passenger/cargo 59,
petroleum tanker 53, refrigerated cargo 3, roll on/roll off 25,
vehicle carrier 22
foreign-owned: 74 (Australia 1, Denmark 31, Germany 5, Japan 7,
Malaysia 2, Netherlands 1, Norway 9, Singapore 12, Sweden 5, UK 1)
registered in other countries: 732 (Antigua and Barbuda 8, Australia
2, Bahamas 106, Bermuda 23, Cambodia 6, Canada 10, Cayman Islands
42, Comoros 2, Cyprus 5, Ecuador 1, Greece 8, Hong Kong 29, Ireland
2, Isle of Man 4, Italy 17, South Korea 7, Liberia 98, Luxembourg 4,
Malta 23, Marshall Islands 123, Netherlands 14, Netherlands Antilles
1, Norway 1, Norway 7, Panama 126, Portugal 1, Puerto Rico 3, Russia
1, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 18, Sierra Leone 1, Singapore
22, Trinidad and Tobago 1, Tuvalu 1, UK 12, Vanuatu 1, unknown 2)
(2008)


Ports and terminals:

Corpus Christi, Duluth, Hampton Roads, Houston, Long Beach, Los
Angeles, New York, Philadelphia, Tampa, Texas City


Military
United States



Military branches:

US Army, US Navy (includes Marine Corps), US Air Force, US Coast
Guard; note - Coast Guard administered in peacetime by the
Department of Homeland Security, but in wartime reports to the
Department of the Navy (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age (17 years of age with parental consent) for male and
female voluntary service; maximum enlistment age 42 (Army), 27 (Air
Force), 34 (Navy), 28 (Marines); service obligation 8 years,
including 2-5 years active duty (Army), 2 years active (Navy), 4
years active (Air Force, Marines) (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 72,715,332
females age 16-49: 71,638,785 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 59,413,358
females age 16-49: 59,187,183 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 2,186,440
female: 2,079,688 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

4.06% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
United States



Disputes - international:

the U.S. has intensified domestic security measures and is
collaborating closely with its neighbors, Canada and Mexico, to
monitor and control legal and illegal personnel, transport, and
commodities across the international borders; abundant rainfall in
recent years along much of the Mexico-US border region has
ameliorated periodically strained water-sharing arrangements; 1990
Maritime Boundary Agreement in the Bering Sea still awaits Russian
Duma ratification; managed maritime boundary disputes with Canada at
Dixon Entrance, Beaufort Sea, Strait of Juan de Fuca, and around the
disputed Machias Seal Island and North Rock; The Bahamas and US have
not been able to agree on a maritime boundary; US Naval Base at
Guantanamo Bay is leased from Cuba and only mutual agreement or US
abandonment of the area can terminate the lease; Haiti claims
US-administered Navassa Island; US has made no territorial claim in
Antarctica (but has reserved the right to do so) and does not
recognize the claims of any other states; Marshall Islands claims
Wake Island; Tokelau included American Samoa's Swains Island among
the islands listed in its 2006 draft constitution


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): the US admitted 62,643 refugees during
FY04/05 including; 10,586 (Somalia); 8,549 (Laos); 6,666 (Russia);
6,479 (Cuba); 3,100 (Haiti); 2,136 (Iran) (2006)


Illicit drugs:

world's largest consumer of cocaine (shipped from Colombia through
Mexico and the Caribbean), Colombian heroin, and Mexican heroin and
marijuana; major consumer of ecstasy and Mexican methamphetamine;
minor consumer of high-quality Southeast Asian heroin; illicit
producer of cannabis, marijuana, depressants, stimulants,
hallucinogens, and methamphetamine; money-laundering center



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges

Introduction
United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges



Background:

All of the following US Pacific island territories except Midway
Atoll constitute the Pacific Remote Islands National Wildlife Refuge
Complex and as such are managed by the Fish and Wildlife Service of
the US Department of the Interior. Midway Atoll NWR has been
included in a Refuge Complex with the Hawaiian Islands NWR and also
designated as part of Papahanaumokuakea Marine National Monument.
These remote refuges are the most widespread collection of marine-
and terrestrial-life protected areas on the planet under a single
country's jurisdiction. They sustain many endemic species including
corals, fish, shellfish, marine mammals, seabirds, water birds, land
birds, insects, and vegetation not found elsewhere.
Baker Island: The US took possession of the island in 1857, and its
guano deposits were mined by US and British companies during the
second half of the 19th century. In 1935, a short-lived attempt at
colonization began on this island but was disrupted by World War II
and thereafter abandoned. The island was established as a National
Wildlife Refuge in 1974.
Howland Island: Discovered by the US early in the 19th century, the
uninhabited atoll was officially claimed by the US in 1857. Both US
and British companies mined for guano deposits until about 1890. In
1935, a short-lived attempt at colonization began on this island,
similar to the effort on nearby Baker Island, but was disrupted by
World War II and thereafter abandoned. The famed American aviatrix
Amelia EARHART disappeared while seeking out Howland Island as a
refueling stop during her 1937 round-the-world flight; Earhart
Light, a day beacon near the middle of the west coast, was named in
her memory. The island was established as a National Wildlife Refuge
in 1974.
Jarvis Island: First discovered by the British in 1821, the
uninhabited island was annexed by the US in 1858, but abandoned in
1879 after tons of guano had been removed. The UK annexed the island
in 1889, but never carried out plans for further exploitation. The
US occupied and reclaimed the island in 1935 until it was abandoned
in 1942 during World War II. The island was established as a
National Wildlife Refuge in 1974.
Johnston Atoll: Both the US and the Kingdom of Hawaii annexed
Johnston Atoll in 1858, but it was the US that mined the guano
deposits until the late 1880s. Johnston and Sand Islands were
designated wildlife refuges in 1926. The US Navy took over the atoll
in 1934, and subsequently the US Air Force assumed control in 1948.
The site was used for high-altitude nuclear tests in the 1950s and
1960s, and until late in 2000 the atoll was maintained as a storage
and disposal site for chemical weapons. Munitions destruction,
cleanup, and closure of the facility was completed by May 2005. The
Fish and Wildlife Service and the US Air Force are currently
discussing future management options; in the interim, Johnston Atoll
and the three-mile Naval Defensive Sea around it remain under the
jurisdiction and administrative control of the US Air Force.
Kingman Reef: The US annexed the reef in 1922. Its sheltered lagoon
served as a way station for flying boats on Hawaii-to-American Samoa
flights during the late 1930s. There are no terrestrial plants on
the reef, which is frequently awash, but it does support abundant
and diverse marine fauna and flora. In 2001, the waters surrounding
the reef out to 12 nm were designated a US National Wildlife Refuge.
Midway Islands: The US took formal possession of the islands in
1867. The laying of the trans-Pacific cable, which passed through
the islands, brought the first residents in 1903. Between 1935 and
1947, Midway was used as a refueling stop for trans-Pacific flights.
The US naval victory over a Japanese fleet off Midway in 1942 was
one of the turning points of World War II. The islands continued to
serve as a naval station until closed in 1993. Today the islands are
a National Wildlife Refuge and are the site of the world's largest
Laysan albatross colony.
Palmyra Atoll: The Kingdom of Hawaii claimed the atoll in 1862, and
the US included it among the Hawaiian Islands when it annexed the
archipelago in 1898. The Hawaii Statehood Act of 1959 did not
include Palmyra Atoll, which is now partly privately owned by the
Nature Conservancy with the rest owned by the Federal government and
managed by the US Fish and Wildlife Service. These organizations are
managing the atoll as a wildlife refuge. The lagoons and surrounding
waters within the 12 nm US territorial seas were transferred to the
US Fish and Wildlife Service and designated as a National Wildlife
Refuge in January 2001.


Geography
United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges



Location:

Oceania
Baker Island: atoll in the North Pacific Ocean 1,830 nm (3,389 km)
southwest of Honolulu, about half way between Hawaii and Australia
Howland Island: island in the North Pacific Ocean 1,815 nm (3,361
km) southwest of Honolulu, about half way between Hawaii and
Australia
Jarvis Island: island in the South Pacific Ocean 1,305 nm (2,417 km)
south of Honolulu, about half way between Hawaii and Cook Islands
Johnston Atoll: atoll in the North Pacific Ocean 717 nm (1,328 km)
southwest of Honolulu, about one-third of the way from Hawaii to the
Marshall Islands
Kingman Reef: reef in the North Pacific Ocean 930 nm (1,722 km)
south of Honolulu, about half way between Hawaii and American Samoa
Midway Islands: atoll in the North Pacific Ocean 1,260 nm (2,334 km)
northwest of Honolulu near the end of the Hawaiian Archipelago,
about one-third of the way from Honolulu to Tokyo
Palmyra Atoll: atoll in the North Pacific Ocean 960 nm (1,778 km)
south of Honolulu, about half way between Hawaii and American Samoa


Geographic coordinates:

Baker Island: 0 13 N, 176 28 W
Howland Island: 0 48 N, 176 38 W
Jarvis Island: 0 23 S, 160 01 W
Johnston Atoll: 16 45 N, 169 31 W
Kingman Reef: 6 23 N, 162 25 W
Midway Islands: 28 12 N, 177 22 W
Palmyra Atoll: 5 53 N, 162 05 W


Map references:

Oceania


Area:

total - 6,959.41 sq km; emergent land - 22.41 sq km; submerged -
6,937 sq km
Baker Island: total - 129.1 sq km; emergent land - 2.1 sq km;
submerged - 127 sq km
Howland Island: total - 138.6 sq km; emergent land - 2.6 sq km;
submerged - 136 sq km
Jarvis Island: total - 152 sq km; emergent land - 5 sq km; submerged
- 147 sq km
Johnston Atoll: total - 276.6 sq km; emergent land - 2.6 sq km;
submerged - 274 sq km
Kingman Reef: total - 1,958.01 sq km; emergent land - 0.01 sq km;
submerged - 1,958 sq km
Midway Islands: total - 2,355.2 sq km; emergent land - 6.2 sq km;
submerged - 2,349 sq km
Palmyra Atoll: total - 1,949.9 sq km; emergent land - 3.9 sq km;
submerged - 1,946 sq km


Area - comparative:

Baker Island: about two and a half times the size of The Mall in
Washington, DC
Howland Island: about three times the size of The Mall in
Washington, DC
Jarvis Island: about eight times the size of The Mall in Washington,
DC
Johnston Atoll: about four and a half times the size of The Mall in
Washington, DC
Kingman Reef: a little more than one and a half times the size of
The Mall in Washington, DC
Midway Islands: about nine times the size of The Mall in Washington,
DC
Palmyra Atoll: about 20 times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

none


Coastline:

Baker Island: 4.8 km
Howland Island: 6.4 km
Jarvis Island: 8 km
Johnston Atoll: 34 km
Kingman Reef: 3 km
Midway Islands: 15 km
Palmyra Atoll: 14.5 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

Baker, Howland, and Jarvis Islands: equatorial; scant rainfall,
constant wind, burning sun
Johnston Atoll and Kingman Reef: tropical, but generally dry;
consistent northeast trade winds with little seasonal temperature
variation
Midway Islands: subtropical with cool, moist winters (December to
February) and warm, dry summers (May to October); moderated by
prevailing easterly winds; most of the 1,067 mm (42 in) of annual
rainfall occurs during the winter
Palmyra Atoll: equatorial, hot; located within the low pressure area
of the Intertropical Convergence Zone (ITCZ) where the northeast and
southeast trade winds meet, it is extremely wet with between
4,000-5,000 mm (160-200 in) of rainfall each year


Terrain:

low and nearly level sandy coral islands with narrow fringing reefs
that have developed at the top of submerged volcanic mountains,
which in most cases rise steeply from the ocean floor


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: Baker Island, unnamed location - 8 m; Howland Island,
unnamed location - 3 m; Jarvis Island, unnamed location - 7 m;
Johnston Atoll, Sand Island - 10 m; Kingman Reef, unnamed location -
less than 2 m; Midway Islands, unnamed location - 13 m; Palmyra
Atoll, unnamed location - 3 m


Natural resources:

terrestrial and aquatic wildlife


Land use:

arable land: 0%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 100% (2008)


Natural hazards:

Baker, Howland, and Jarvis Islands: the narrow fringing reef
surrounding the island can be a maritime hazard
Kingman Reef: wet or awash most of the time, maximum elevation of
less than 2 m makes Kingman Reef a maritime hazard
Midway Islands, Johnston, and Palmyra Atolls: NA


Environment - current issues:

Baker, Howland, and Jarvis Islands, and Johnston Atoll: no natural
fresh water resources
Kingman Reef: none
Midway Islands and Palmyra Atoll: NA


Geography - note:

Baker, Howland, and Jarvis Islands: scattered vegetation consisting
of grasses, prostrate vines, and low growing shrubs; primarily a
nesting, roosting, and foraging habitat for seabirds, shorebirds,
and marine wildlife; closed to the public
Johnston Atoll: Johnston Island and Sand Island are natural islands,
which have been expanded by coral dredging; North Island (Akau) and
East Island (Hikina) are manmade islands formed from coral dredging;
the egg-shaped reef is 34 km in circumference; closed to the public
Kingman Reef: barren coral atoll with deep interior lagoon; closed
to the public
Midway Islands: a coral atoll managed as a national wildlife refuge
and open to the public for wildlife-related recreation in the form
of wildlife observation and photography
Palmyra Atoll: the high rainfall and resulting lush vegetation make
the environment of this atoll unique among the US Pacific Island
territories; supports a large undisturbed stand of Pisonia beach
forest


People
United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges



Population:

no indigenous inhabitants
note: public entry is by special-use permit from US Fish and
Wildlife Service only and generally restricted to scientists and
educators; visited annually by US Fish and Wildlife Service
Johnston Atoll: in previous years, an average of 1,100 US military
and civilian contractor personnel were present; as of May 2005 all
US government personnel had left the island
Midway Islands: approximately 40 people make up the staff of US Fish
and Wildlife Service and their services contractor living at the
atoll
Palmyra Atoll: four to 20 Nature Conservancy, US Fish and Wildlife
staff, and researchers


Government
United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Baker Island; Howland Island; Jarvis
Island; Johnston Atoll; Kingman Reef; Midway Islands; Palmyra Atoll


Dependency status:

unincorporated territories of the US; administered from Washington,
DC by the Fish and Wildlife Service of the US Department of the
Interior as part of the National Wildlife Refuge system
note on Palmyra Atoll: incorporated Territory of the US; partly
privately owned and partly federally owned; administered from
Washington, DC by the Fish and Wildlife Service of the US Department
of the Interior; the Office of Insular Affairs of the US Department
of the Interior continues to administer nine excluded areas
comprising certain tidal and submerged lands within the 12 nm
territorial sea or within the lagoon


Legal system:

the laws of the US, where applicable, apply


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (territories of the US)


Flag description:

the flag of the US is used


Economy
United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges



Economy - overview:

no economic activity



Transportation
United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges



Airports:

Baker Island: one abandoned World War II runway of 1,665 m covered
with vegetation and unusable
Howland Island: airstrip constructed in 1937 for scheduled refueling
stop on the round-the-world flight of Amelia EARHART and Fred
NOONAN; the aviators left Lae, New Guinea, for Howland Island but
were never seen again; the airstrip is no longer serviceable
Johnston Atoll: one closed and not maintained
Kingman Reef: lagoon was used as a halfway station between Hawaii
and American Samoa by Pan American Airways for flying boats in 1937
and 1938
Midway Islands: 3 - one operational (2,409 m paved); no fuel for
sale except emergencies
Palmyra Atoll: 1 - 1,846 m unpaved runway; privately owned (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Baker, Howland, and Jarvis Islands, and Kingman Reef: none; offshore
anchorage only
Johnston Atoll: Johnston Island
Midway Islands: Sand Island
Palmyra Atoll: West Lagoon


Military
United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges



Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of the US


Transnational Issues
United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Uruguay

Introduction
Uruguay



Background:

Montevideo, founded by the Spanish in 1726 as a military stronghold,
soon took advantage of its natural harbor to become an important
commercial center. Claimed by Argentina but annexed by Brazil in
1821, Uruguay declared its independence four years later and secured
its freedom in 1828 after a three-year struggle. The administrations
of President Jose BATLLE in the early 20th century established
widespread political, social, and economic reforms that established
a statist tradition. A violent Marxist urban guerrilla movement
named the Tupamaros, launched in the late 1960s, led Uruguay's
president to cede control of the government to the military in 1973.
By yearend, the rebels had been crushed, but the military continued
to expand its hold over the government. Civilian rule was not
restored until 1985. In 2004, the left-of-center Frente Amplio
Coalition won national elections that effectively ended 170 years of
political control previously held by the Colorado and Blanco
parties. Uruguay's political and labor conditions are among the
freest on the continent.


Geography
Uruguay



Location:

Southern South America, bordering the South Atlantic Ocean, between
Argentina and Brazil


Geographic coordinates:

33 00 S, 56 00 W


Map references:

South America


Area:

total: 176,220 sq km
land: 173,620 sq km
water: 2,600 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than the state of Washington


Land boundaries:

total: 1,648 km
border countries: Argentina 580 km, Brazil 1,068 km


Coastline:

660 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm or edge of continental margin


Climate:

warm temperate; freezing temperatures almost unknown


Terrain:

mostly rolling plains and low hills; fertile coastal lowland


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
highest point: Cerro Catedral 514 m


Natural resources:

arable land, hydropower, minor minerals, fisheries


Land use:

arable land: 7.77%
permanent crops: 0.24%
other: 91.99% (2005)


Irrigated land:

2,100 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

139 cu km (2000)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 3.15 cu km/yr (2%/1%/96%)
per capita: 910 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

seasonally high winds (the pampero is a chilly and occasional
violent wind that blows north from the Argentine pampas), droughts,
floods; because of the absence of mountains, which act as weather
barriers, all locations are particularly vulnerable to rapid changes
from weather fronts


Environment - current issues:

water pollution from meat packing/tannery industry; inadequate
solid/hazardous waste disposal


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living
Resources, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone
Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation


Geography - note:

second-smallest South American country (after Suriname); most of the
low-lying landscape (three-quarters of the country) is grassland,
ideal for cattle and sheep raising


People
Uruguay



Population:

3,477,778 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 22.7% (male 401,209/female 388,315)
15-64 years: 64% (male 1,105,891/female 1,120,858)
65 years and over: 13.3% (male 185,704/female 275,801) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 33.2 years
male: 31.8 years
female: 34.6 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.486% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

14.17 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

9.12 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-0.18 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.04 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.67 male(s)/female
total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 11.66 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 13.1 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 10.17 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 76.14 years
male: 72.89 years
female: 79.51 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.94 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.3% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

6,000 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 500 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Uruguayan(s)
adjective: Uruguayan


Ethnic groups:

white 88%, mestizo 8%, black 4%, Amerindian (practically nonexistent)


Religions:

Roman Catholic 47.1%, non-Catholic Christians 11.1%,
nondenominational 23.2%, Jewish 0.3%, atheist or agnostic 17.2%,
other 1.1% (2006)


Languages:

Spanish, Portunol, or Brazilero (Portuguese-Spanish mix on the
Brazilian frontier)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 98%
male: 97.6%
female: 98.4% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 15 years
male: 14 years
female: 16 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

2.9% of GDP (2006)


Government
Uruguay



Country name:

conventional long form: Oriental Republic of Uruguay
conventional short form: Uruguay
local long form: Republica Oriental del Uruguay
local short form: Uruguay
former: Banda Oriental, Cisplatine Province


Government type:

constitutional republic


Capital:

name: Montevideo
geographic coordinates: 34 53 S, 56 11 W
time difference: UTC-3 (2 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)
daylight saving time: +1hr, begins second Sunday in October; ends
second Sunday in March


Administrative divisions:

19 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento); Artigas,
Canelones, Cerro Largo, Colonia, Durazno, Flores, Florida,
Lavalleja, Maldonado, Montevideo, Paysandu, Rio Negro, Rivera,
Rocha, Salto, San Jose, Soriano, Tacuarembo, Treinta y Tres


Independence:

25 August 1825 (from Brazil)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 25 August (1825)


Constitution:

27 November 1966, effective 15 February 1967; suspended 27 June
1973, new constitution rejected by referendum 30 November 1980; two
constitutional reforms approved by plebiscite 26 November 1989 and 7
January 1997


Legal system:

based on Spanish civil law system; accepts compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal and compulsory


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Tabare VAZQUEZ Rosas (since 1 March 2005);
Vice President Rodolfo NIN NOVOA (since 1 March 2005); note - the
president is both the chief of state and head of government
head of government: President Tabare VAZQUEZ Rosas (since 1 March
2005); Vice President Rodolfo NIN NOVOA (since 1 March 2005)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president with
parliamentary approval
elections: president and vice president elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for five-year terms (may not serve consecutive
terms); election last held 31 October 2004 (next to be held in
October 2009)
election results: Tabare VAZQUEZ elected president; percent of vote
- Tabare VAZQUEZ 50.5%, Jorge LARRANAGA 35.1%, Guillermo STIRLING
10.3%; other 4.1%


Legislative branch:

bicameral General Assembly or Asamblea General consists of Chamber
of Senators or Camara de Senadores (30 seats; members are elected by
popular vote to serve five-year terms; vice president has one vote
in the Senate) and Chamber of Representatives or Camara de
Representantes (99 seats; members are elected by popular vote to
serve five-year terms)
elections: Chamber of Senators - last held 31 October 2004 (next to
be held October 2009); Chamber of Representatives - last held 31
October 2004 (next to be held October 2009)
election results: Chamber of Senators - percent of vote by party -
NA; seats by party - EP-FA 16, Blanco 11, Colorado Party 3; Chamber
of Representatives - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
EP-FA 52, Blanco 36, Colorado Party 10, Independent Party 1


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (judges are nominated by the president and elected for
10-year terms by the General Assembly)


Political parties and leaders:

Broad Front (Frente Amplio) - formerly known as the Progressive
Encounter/Broad Front Coalition or EP-FA [Jorge BROVETTO] (a broad
governing coalition that includes Movement of the Popular
Participation or MPP [Jose MUJICA], New Space Party (Nuevo Espacio)
[Rafael MICHELINI], Progressive Alliance (Alianza Progresista)
[Rodolfo NIN NOVOA], Socialist Party [Eduardo FERNANDEZ], the
Communist Party [Marina ARISMENDI], Uruguayan Assembly (Asamblea
Uruguay) [Danilo ASTORI], and Vertiente Artiguista [Mariano ARANA]);
Colorado Party (Foro Batllista) [Julio Maria SANGUINETTI]; National
Party or Blanco [Luis Alberto LACALLE and Jorge LARRANAGA]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Architect's Society of Uruguay (professional organization); Chamber
of Uruguayan Industries (manufacturer's association); Chemist and
Pharmaceutical Association (professional organization); PIT/CNT
(powerful federation of Uruguayan Unions - umbrella labor
organization); Rural Association of Uruguay (rancher's association);
Uruguayan Construction League; Uruguayan Network of Political Women
other: Catholic Church; students


International organization participation:

CAN (associate), FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM,
IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU,
ISO, ITSO, ITU, LAES, LAIA, Mercosur, MIGA, MINURSO, MINUSTAH,
MONUC, NAM (observer), OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN, UNASUR,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNMIS, UNMOGIP, UNOCI, UNOMIG,
UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Carlos Alberto GIANELLI Derois
chancery: 1913 I Street NW, Washington, DC 20006
telephone: [1] (202) 331-1313 through 1316
FAX: [1] (202) 331-8142
consulate(s) general: Chicago, Los Angeles, Miami, New York,
Washington, DC
consulate(s): San Juan (Puerto Rico)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Frank E. BAXTER
embassy: Lauro Muller 1776, Montevideo 11200
mailing address: APO AA 34035
telephone: [598] (2) 418-7777
FAX: [598] (2) 418-8611


Flag description:

nine equal horizontal stripes of white (top and bottom) alternating
with blue; a white square in the upper hoist-side corner with a
yellow sun bearing a human face known as the Sun of May with 16 rays
that alternate between triangular and wavy


Economy
Uruguay



Economy - overview:

Uruguay's economy is characterized by an export-oriented
agricultural sector, a well-educated work force, and high levels of
social spending. After averaging growth of 5% annually during
1996-98, in 1999-2002 the economy suffered a major downturn,
stemming largely from the spillover effects of the economic problems
of its large neighbors, Argentina and Brazil. For instance, in
2001-02 Argentina made massive withdrawals of dollars deposited in
Uruguayan banks, which led to a plunge in the Uruguayan peso and a
massive rise in unemployment. Total GDP in these four years dropped
by nearly 20%, with 2002 the worst year due to the banking crisis.
The unemployment rate rose to nearly 20% in 2002, inflation surged,
and the burden of external debt doubled. Cooperation with the IMF
helped stem the damage. Uruguay in 2007 improved its debt profile by
paying off $1.1 billion in IMF debt, and continues to follow the
orthodox economic plan set by the Fund in 2005. The construction of
a pulp mill in Fray Bentos, which represents the largest foreign
direct investment in Uruguay's history at $1.2 billion, came online
in November 2007 and is expected to add 1.6% to GDP and boost
already rising exports. The economy has grown strongly since 2004 as
a result of high commodity prices for Uruguayan exports, a strong
peso, growth in the region, and low international interest rates.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$37.5 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$22.95 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

7.4% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$10,800 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 10.1%
industry: 32%
services: 57.9% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

1.631 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 9%
industry: 15%
services: 76% (2007 est.)


Unemployment rate:

9.2% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

27.4% of households (2006)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 1.9%
highest 10%: 34% (2003)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

45.2 (2006)


Investment (gross fixed):

13.9% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $6.701 billion
expenditures: $6.807 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

64.8% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

8.1% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

10% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

8.94% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$2.145 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$7.919 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$6.396 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

rice, wheat, soybeans, barley; livestock, beef; fish; forestry


Industries:

food processing, electrical machinery, transportation equipment,
petroleum products, textiles, chemicals, beverages


Industrial production growth rate:

7.9% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

9.2 billion kWh (2007)


Electricity - consumption:

7.03 billion kWh (2007)


Electricity - exports:

995.4 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

788.4 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 0.7%
hydro: 99.1%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0.3% (2001)


Oil - production:

935.7 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

33,400 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

4,410 bbl/day (2007)


Oil - imports:

43,670 bbl/day (2007)


Oil - proved reserves:

NA


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

102.8 million cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

116.9 million cu m (2007)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$185.6 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$5.063 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

meat, rice, leather products, wool, fish, dairy products


Exports - partners:

Brazil 15.5%, US 9.4%, Argentina 8.4%, Mexico 6.6%, China 6.1%,
Germany 4.8% (2007)


Imports:

$5.554 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

crude petroleum and petroleum products, machinery, chemicals, road
vehicles, paper, plastics


Imports - partners:

Brazil 19.1%, Argentina 17.9%, US 9.5%, China 9.1%, Paraguay 7.7%,
Nigeria 4.7% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$14.62 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$4.121 billion (December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$11.42 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$4.19 billion (2007)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$156 million (2007)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$224 million (2007)


Currency (code):

Uruguayan peso (UYU)


Currency code:

UYU


Exchange rates:

Uruguayan pesos (UYU) per US dollar - 23.947 (2007), 24.048 (2006),
24.479 (2005), 28.704 (2004), 28.209 (2003)


Communications
Uruguay



Telephones - main lines in use:

965,200 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

3.004 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: fully digitalized
domestic: most modern facilities concentrated in Montevideo; new
nationwide microwave radio relay network; overall fixed-line and
mobile-cellular teledensity is 115 telephones per 100 persons
international: country code - 598; the UNISOR submarine cable system
provides direct connectivity to Brazil and Argentina; satellite
earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2002)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 93, FM 191, shortwave 7 (2005)


Radios:

1.97 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

62 (2005)


Televisions:

782,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.uy


Internet hosts:

480,593 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

14 (2001)


Internet users:

968,000 (2007)


Transportation
Uruguay



Airports:

60 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 9
over 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
914 to 1,523 m: 2
under 914 m: 2 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 51
1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
914 to 1,523 m: 19
under 914 m: 29 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 257 km; oil 160 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 2,073 km
standard gauge: 2,073 km 1.435-m gauge
note: 461 km have been taken out of service and 460 km are in
partial use (2006)


Roadways:

total: 77,732 km
paved: 7,743 km
unpaved: 69,989 km (2004)


Waterways:

1,600 km (2005)


Merchant marine:

total: 17
by type: cargo 3, chemical tanker 2, passenger/cargo 9, petroleum
tanker 2, roll on/roll off 1
foreign-owned: 10 (Argentina 3, Greece 1, Spain 6)
registered in other countries: 3 (Liberia 3) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Montevideo


Military
Uruguay



Military branches:

Uruguayan Armed Forces: Army (Ejercito), Navy (Armada Nacional;
includes naval air arm, Marines, Maritime Prefecture in wartime),
Air Force (Fuerza Aerea Uruguaya, FAU) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary and compulsory military service;
enlistment is voluntary in peacetime, but the government has the
authority to conscript in emergencies (2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 837,252
females age 16-49: 824,096 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 703,955
females age 16-49: 690,296 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 27,082
female: 26,075 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.6% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Uruguay



Disputes - international:

in Jan 2007, ICJ provisionally ruled Uruguay may begin construction
of two paper mills on the Uruguay River, which forms the border with
Argentina, while the court examines further whether Argentina has
the legal right to stop such construction with potential
environmental implications to both countries; uncontested dispute
with Brazil over certain islands in the Quarai/Cuareim and Invernada
streams and the resulting tripoint with Argentina


Illicit drugs:

small-scale transit country for drugs mainly bound for Europe, often
through sea-borne containers; law enforcement corruption; money
laundering because of strict banking secrecy laws; weak border
control along Brazilian frontier; increasing consumption of cocaine
base and synthetic drugs



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Uzbekistan

Introduction
Uzbekistan



Background:

Russia conquered Uzbekistan in the late 19th century. Stiff
resistance to the Red Army after World War I was eventually
suppressed and a socialist republic set up in 1924. During the
Soviet era, intensive production of "white gold" (cotton) and grain
led to overuse of agrochemicals and the depletion of water supplies,
which have left the land poisoned and the Aral Sea and certain
rivers half dry. Independent since 1991, the country seeks to
gradually lessen its dependence on agriculture while developing its
mineral and petroleum reserves. Current concerns include terrorism
by Islamic militants, economic stagnation, and the curtailment of
human rights and democratization.


Geography
Uzbekistan



Location:

Central Asia, north of Afghanistan


Geographic coordinates:

41 00 N, 64 00 E


Map references:

Asia


Area:

total: 447,400 sq km
land: 425,400 sq km
water: 22,000 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than California


Land boundaries:

total: 6,221 km
border countries: Afghanistan 137 km, Kazakhstan 2,203 km,
Kyrgyzstan 1,099 km, Tajikistan 1,161 km, Turkmenistan 1,621 km


Coastline:

0 km (doubly landlocked); note - Uzbekistan includes the southern
portion of the Aral Sea with a 420 km shoreline


Maritime claims:

none (doubly landlocked)


Climate:

mostly midlatitude desert, long, hot summers, mild winters; semiarid
grassland in east


Terrain:

mostly flat-to-rolling sandy desert with dunes; broad, flat
intensely irrigated river valleys along course of Amu Darya, Syr
Darya (Sirdaryo), and Zarafshon; Fergana Valley in east surrounded
by mountainous Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan; shrinking Aral Sea in west


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Sariqarnish Kuli -12 m
highest point: Adelunga Toghi 4,301 m


Natural resources:

natural gas, petroleum, coal, gold, uranium, silver, copper, lead
and zinc, tungsten, molybdenum


Land use:

arable land: 10.51%
permanent crops: 0.76%
other: 88.73% (2005)


Irrigated land:

42,810 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

72.2 cu km (2003)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 58.34 cu km/yr (5%/2%/93%)
per capita: 2,194 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

NA


Environment - current issues:

shrinkage of the Aral Sea is resulting in growing concentrations of
chemical pesticides and natural salts; these substances are then
blown from the increasingly exposed lake bed and contribute to
desertification; water pollution from industrial wastes and the
heavy use of fertilizers and pesticides is the cause of many human
health disorders; increasing soil salination; soil contamination
from buried nuclear processing and agricultural chemicals, including
DDT


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

along with Liechtenstein, one of the only two doubly landlocked
countries in the world


People
Uzbekistan



Population:

27,345,026 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 29% (male 4,047,918/female 3,870,346)
15-64 years: 66% (male 8,971,017/female 9,079,170)
65 years and over: 5% (male 588,498/female 788,077) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 24.3 years
male: 23.8 years
female: 24.8 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.965% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

17.99 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

5.3 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-3.04 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.75 male(s)/female
total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 24.23 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 28.61 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 19.58 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 71.69 years
male: 68.69 years
female: 74.87 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.01 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

less than 0.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

11,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

fewer than 500 (2003 est.)


Nationality:

noun: Uzbekistani
adjective: Uzbekistani


Ethnic groups:

Uzbek 80%, Russian 5.5%, Tajik 5%, Kazakh 3%, Karakalpak 2.5%, Tatar
1.5%, other 2.5% (1996 est.)


Religions:

Muslim 88% (mostly Sunnis), Eastern Orthodox 9%, other 3%


Languages:

Uzbek 74.3%, Russian 14.2%, Tajik 4.4%, other 7.1%


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 99.3%
male: 99.6%
female: 99% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 11 years
male: 12 years
female: 11 years (2007)


Education expenditures:

9.4% of GDP (1991)


Government
Uzbekistan



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Uzbekistan
conventional short form: Uzbekistan
local long form: Ozbekiston Respublikasi
local short form: Ozbekiston
former: Uzbek Soviet Socialist Republic


Government type:

republic; authoritarian presidential rule, with little power outside
the executive branch


Capital:

name: Tashkent (Toshkent)
geographic coordinates: 41 20 N, 69 18 E
time difference: UTC+5 (10 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

12 provinces (viloyatlar, singular - viloyat), 1 autonomous
republic* (respublika), and 1 city** (shahar); Andijon Viloyati,
Buxoro Viloyati, Farg'ona Viloyati, Jizzax Viloyati, Namangan
Viloyati, Navoiy Viloyati, Qashqadaryo Viloyati (Qarshi),
Qoraqalpog'iston Respublikasi [Karakalpakstan]* (Nukus), Samarqand
Viloyati, Sirdaryo Viloyati (Guliston), Surxondaryo Viloyati
(Termiz), Toshkent Shahri**, Toshkent Viloyati, Xorazm Viloyati
(Urganch)
note: administrative divisions have the same names as their
administrative centers (exceptions have the administrative center
name following in parentheses)


Independence:

1 September 1991 (from Soviet Union)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 1 September (1991)


Constitution:

adopted 8 December 1992


Legal system:

based on civil law system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Islom KARIMOV (since 24 March 1990, when
he was elected president by the then Supreme Soviet)
head of government: Prime Minister Shavkat MIRZIYOYEV (since 11
December 2003); First Deputy Prime Minister Rustam AZIMOV (since 2
January 2008)
cabinet: Cabinet of Ministers appointed by the president with
approval of the Supreme Assembly
elections: president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term
(eligible for a second term; previously was a five-year term,
extended by constitutional amendment in 2002); election last held 23
December 2007 (next to be held in 2014); prime minister, ministers,
and deputy ministers appointed by the president
election results: Islom KARIMOV reelected president; percent of vote
- Islom KARIMOV 88.1%, Aslidden RUSTAMOV 3.2%, Dilorom
TASHMUKHAMEDOVA 2.9%, Akmal SAIDOV 2.6%


Legislative branch:

bicameral Supreme Assembly or Oliy Majlis consists of an upper house
or Senate (100 seats; 84 members are elected by regional governing
councils and 16 appointed by the president; to serve five-year
terms) and a lower house or Legislative Chamber (120 seats; members
elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held 26 December 2004 and 9 January 2005 (next to be
held December 2009)
election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - NA; Legislative Chamber - percent of vote by party - NA;
seats by party - LDPU 41, NDP 32, Fidokorlar 17, MTP 11, Adolat 9,
unaffiliated 10
note: all parties in the Supreme Assembly support President KARIMOV


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (judges are nominated by the president and confirmed
by the Supreme Assembly)


Political parties and leaders:

Adolat (Justice) Social Democratic Party [Dilorom TASHMUHAMMEDOVA];
Democratic National Rebirth Party (Milly Tiklanish) or MTP [Hurshid
DOSMUHAMMEDOV]; Fidokorlar National Democratic Party
(Self-Sacrificers) [Ahtam TURSUNOV]; Liberal Democratic Party of
Uzbekistan or LDPU [Adham SHADMANOV; People's Democratic Party or
NDP (formerly Communist Party) [Asliddin RUSTAMOV]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Agrarian and Entrepreneurs' Party [Marat ZAHIDOV]; Birlik (Unity)
Movement [Abdurakhim POLAT, chairman]; Committee for the Protection
of Human Rights [Marat ZAHIDOV]; Erk (Freedom) Democratic Party
[Muhammad SOLIH, chairman] (was banned 9 December 1992); Ezgulik
Human Rights Society [Vasila INOYATOVA]; Free Farmers' Party or Ozod
Dehqonlar [Nigora KHIDOYATOVA]; Human Rights Society of Uzbekistan
[Talib YAKUBOV, chairman]; Independent Human Rights Organization of
Uzbekistan [Mikhail ARDZINOV, chairman]; Mazlum; Sunshine Coalition
[Sanjar UMAROV, chairman]


International organization participation:

ADB, CIS, CSTO, EAEC, EAPC, EBRD, ECO, FAO, GCTU, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol,
IOC, ISO, ITSO, ITU, MIGA, NAM, OIC, OPCW, OSCE, PFP, SCO, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
(observer)


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Abdulaziz KAMILOV
chancery: 1746 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036
telephone: [1] (202) 887-5300
FAX: [1] (202) 293-6804
consulate(s) general: New York


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Richard B. NORLAND
embassy: 3 Moyqo'rq'on, 5th Block, Yunusobod District, Tashkent
100093
mailing address: use embassy street address
telephone: [998] (71) 120-5450
FAX: [998] (71) 120-6335


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), white, and green
separated by red fimbriations with a white crescent moon and 12
white stars in the upper hoist-side quadrant


Economy
Uzbekistan



Economy - overview:

Uzbekistan is a dry, landlocked country of which 11% consists of
intensely cultivated, irrigated river valleys. More than 60% of its
population lives in densely populated rural communities. Uzbekistan
is now the world's second-largest cotton exporter and fifth largest
producer; it relies heavily on cotton production as the major source
of export earnings. Other major export earners include gold, natural
gas, and oil. Following independence in September 1991, the
government sought to prop up its Soviet-style command economy with
subsidies and tight controls on production and prices. While aware
of the need to improve the investment climate, the government still
sponsors measures that often increase, not decrease, its control
over business decisions. A sharp increase in the inequality of
income distribution has hurt the lower ranks of society since
independence. In 2003, the government accepted Article VIII
obligations under the IMF, providing for full currency
convertibility. However, strict currency controls and tightening of
borders have lessened the effects of convertibility and have also
led to some shortages that have further stifled economic activity.
The Central Bank often delays or restricts convertibility,
especially for consumer goods. Potential investment by Russia and
China in Uzbekistan's gas and oil industry may boost growth
prospects. In November 2005, Russian President Vladimir PUTIN and
Uzbekistan President KARIMOV signed an "alliance," which included
provisions for economic and business cooperation. Russian businesses
have shown increased interest in Uzbekistan, especially in mining,
telecom, and oil and gas. In 2006, Uzbekistan took steps to rejoin
the Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO) and the Eurasian
Economic Community (EurASEC), both organizations dominated by
Russia. Uzbek authorities have accused US and other foreign
companies operating in Uzbekistan of violating Uzbek tax laws and
have frozen their assets.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$64.4 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$22.31 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

9.5% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$2,400 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 29.4%
industry: 33.1%
services: 37.5% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

14.6 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 44%
industry: 20%
services: 36% (1995)


Unemployment rate:

0.8% officially by the Ministry of Labor, plus another 20%
underemployed (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

33% (2004 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.8%
highest 10%: 29.6% (2003)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

36.8 (2003)


Budget:

revenues: $6.478 billion
expenditures: $6.5 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

18.7% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

12% officially, but 38% based on analysis of consumer prices (2007
est.)


Agriculture - products:

cotton, vegetables, fruits, grain; livestock


Industries:

textiles, food processing, machine building, metallurgy, gold,
petroleum, natural gas, chemicals


Industrial production growth rate:

12.1% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

48.79 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

42.23 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

11.52 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - imports:

11.44 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 88.2%
hydro: 11.8%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

99,260 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

157,100 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

11,940 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

31,440 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

594 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

65.19 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

51.18 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

14.01 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

1.841 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$4.615 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$8.05 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

cotton, gold, energy products, mineral fertilizers, ferrous and
non-ferrous metals, textiles, food products, machinery, automobiles


Exports - partners:

Russia 22.4%, Poland 10.4%, Turkey 9.4%, Kazakhstan 6.1%, Hungary
6%, China 5.6%, Ukraine 4.8%, Bangladesh 4.3% (2007)


Imports:

$4.48 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, foodstuffs, chemicals, ferrous and
non-ferrous metals


Imports - partners:

Russia 30.1%, China 13.3%, South Korea 13%, Germany 6.3%, Kazakhstan
6.2%, Ukraine 4% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$172.3 million from the US (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$6.75 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$3.927 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$NA


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$36.89 million (2005)


Currency (code):

soum (UZS)


Currency code:

UZS


Exchange rates:

Uzbekistani soum (UZS) per US dollar - 1,263.8 (2007), 1,219.8
(2006), 1,020 (2005), 971.265 (2004), 771.029 (2003)


Communications
Uzbekistan



Telephones - main lines in use:

1.793 million (2005)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

5.8 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: antiquated and inadequate; in serious need of
modernization
domestic: the main line telecommunications system is dilapidated and
telephone density is low; the state-owned telecommunications
company, Uzbektelecom, is working on improving main line services;
mobile services are growing swiftly, with the subscriber base more
than doubling in 2007 to 5.8 million
international: country code - 998; linked by landline or microwave
radio relay with CIS member states and to other countries by leased
connection via the Moscow international gateway switch; after the
completion of the Uzbek link to the Trans-Asia-Europe (TAE)
fiber-optic cable, Uzbekistan will be independent of Russian
facilities for international communications (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 4, FM 6, shortwave 3 (2006)


Radios:

10.8 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

28 (includes 1 cable rebroadcaster in Tashkent and approximately 20
stations in regional capitals) (2006)


Televisions:

6.4 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.uz


Internet hosts:

38,183 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

42 (2000)


Internet users:

1.2 million (2007)


Transportation
Uzbekistan



Airports:

54 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 33
over 3,047 m: 6
2,438 to 3,047 m: 13
1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
914 to 1,523 m: 5
under 914 m: 4 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 21
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
under 914 m: 19 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 9,725 km; oil 868 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 3,950 km
broad gauge: 3,950 km 1.520-m gauge (620 km electrified) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 86,496 km
paved: 75,511 km
unpaved: 10,985 km (2000)


Waterways:

1,100 km (2006)


Ports and terminals:

Termiz (Amu Darya)


Military
Uzbekistan



Military branches:

Army, Air and Air Defense Forces, National Guard


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for compulsory military service; 1-year conscript
service obligation; moving toward a professional military, but
conscription will continue; the military cannot accommodate everyone
who wishes to enlist, and competition for entrance into the military
is similar to the competition for admission to universities (2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 7,480,484
females age 16-49: 7,542,017 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 5,684,540
females age 16-49: 6,432,976 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 324,094
female: 323,923 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

2% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Uzbekistan



Disputes - international:

prolonged drought and cotton monoculture in Uzbekistan and
Turkmenistan creates water-sharing difficulties for Amu Darya river
states; field demarcation of the boundaries with Kazakhstan
commenced in 2004; border delimitation of 130 km of border with
Kyrgyzstan is hampered by serious disputes around enclaves and other
areas


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 39,202 (Tajikistan); 1,060
(Afghanistan)
IDPs: 3,400 (forced population transfers by government from villages
near Tajikistan border) (2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Uzbekistan is a source country for women and
girls trafficked to Kazakhstan, Russia, Middle East, and Asia for
the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation; men are trafficked to
Kazakhstan and Russia for purposes of forced labor in the
construction, cotton, and tobacco industries; men and women are also
trafficked internally for the purposes of domestic servitude, forced
labor in the agricultural and construction industries, and for
commercial sexual exploitation
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Uzbekistan is on the Tier 2 Watch
List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to
combat severe forms of trafficking in 2007; the government did not
amend its criminal code to increase penalties for convicted
traffickers; in March 2008, Uzbekistan adopted ILO Conventions on
minimum age of employment and on the elimination of the worst forms
of child labor and is working with the ILO on implementation; the
government also demonstrated its increasing commitment to combat
trafficking in March 2008 by adopting a comprehensive
anti-trafficking law; Uzbekistan has not ratified the 2000 UN TIP
Protocol (2008)


Illicit drugs:

transit country for Afghan narcotics bound for Russian and, to a
lesser extent, Western European markets; limited illicit cultivation
of cannabis and small amounts of opium poppy for domestic
consumption; poppy cultivation almost wiped out by government crop
eradication program; transit point for heroin precursor chemicals
bound for Afghanistan



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Vanuatu

Introduction
Vanuatu



Background:

Multiple waves of colonizers, each speaking a distinct language,
migrated to the New Hebrides in the millennia preceding European
exploration in the 18th century. This settlement pattern accounts
for the complex linguistic diversity found on the archipelago to
this day. The British and French, who settled the New Hebrides in
the 19th century, agreed in 1906 to an Anglo-French Condominium,
which administered the islands until independence in 1980, when the
new name of Vanuatu was adopted.


Geography
Vanuatu



Location:

Oceania, group of islands in the South Pacific Ocean, about
three-quarters of the way from Hawaii to Australia


Geographic coordinates:

16 00 S, 167 00 E


Map references:

Oceania


Area:

total: 12,200 sq km
land: 12,200 sq km
water: 0 sq km
note: includes more than 80 islands, about 65 of which are inhabited


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than Connecticut


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

2,528 km


Maritime claims:

measured from claimed archipelagic baselines
territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin


Climate:

tropical; moderated by southeast trade winds from May to October;
moderate rainfall from November to April; may be affected by
cyclones from December to April


Terrain:

mostly mountainous islands of volcanic origin; narrow coastal plains


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: Tabwemasana 1,877 m


Natural resources:

manganese, hardwood forests, fish


Land use:

arable land: 1.64%
permanent crops: 6.97%
other: 91.39% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

tropical cyclones or typhoons (January to April); volcanic eruption
on Aoba (Ambae) island began 27 November 2005, volcanism also causes
minor earthquakes; tsunamis


Environment - current issues:

most of the population does not have access to a reliable supply of
potable water; deforestation


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Biodiversity, Climate
Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered
Species, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection,
Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 94
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

a Y-shaped chain of four main islands and 80 smaller islands;
several of the islands have active volcanoes


People
Vanuatu



Population:

215,446 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 31.3% (male 34,441/female 33,000)
15-64 years: 64.8% (male 71,159/female 68,435)
65 years and over: 3.9% (male 4,352/female 4,059) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 23.8 years
male: 23.8 years
female: 23.8 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.434% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

21.95 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

7.61 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 1.07 male(s)/female
total population: 1.04 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 50.77 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 53.32 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 48.09 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 63.61 years
male: 62.04 years
female: 65.27 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.57 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Ni-Vanuatu (singular and plural)
adjective: Ni-Vanuatu


Ethnic groups:

Ni-Vanuatu 98.5%, other 1.5% (1999 Census)


Religions:

Presbyterian 31.4%, Anglican 13.4%, Roman Catholic 13.1%,
Seventh-Day Adventist 10.8%, other Christian 13.8%, indigenous
beliefs 5.6% (including Jon Frum cargo cult), other 9.6%, none 1%,
unspecified 1.3% (1999 Census)


Languages:

local languages (more than 100) 72.6%, pidgin (known as Bislama or
Bichelama) 23.1%, English 1.9%, French 1.4%, other 0.3%, unspecified
0.7% (1999 Census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 74%
male: NA
female: NA (1999 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 10 years
male: 11 years
female: 10 years (2004)


Education expenditures:

9.5% of GDP (2003)


Government
Vanuatu



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Vanuatu
conventional short form: Vanuatu
local long form: Ripablik blong Vanuatu
local short form: Vanuatu
former: New Hebrides


Government type:

parliamentary republic


Capital:

name: Port-Vila (on Efate)
geographic coordinates: 17 44 S, 168 19 E
time difference: UTC+11 (16 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

6 provinces; Malampa, Penama, Sanma, Shefa, Tafea, Torba


Independence:

30 July 1980 (from France and UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 30 July (1980)


Constitution:

30 July 1980


Legal system:

unified system being created from former dual French and British
systems; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Kalkot Matas KELEKELE (since 16 August
2004)
head of government: Prime Minister Edward NATAPEI (since 22
September 2008); Deputy Prime Minister Ham LINI (since 22 September
2008)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister,
responsible to Parliament
elections: president elected for a five-year term by an electoral
college consisting of Parliament and the presidents of the regional
councils; election for president last held 16 August 2004 (next to
be held in 2009); following legislative elections, the leader of the
majority party or majority coalition is usually elected prime
minister by Parliament from among its members; election for prime
minister last held 22 September 2008 (next to be held following
general elections in 2012)
election results: Kalkot Matas KELEKELE elected president, with 49
votes out of 56, after several ballots on 16 August 2004


Legislative branch:

unicameral Parliament (52 seats; members elected by popular vote to
serve four-year terms)
elections: last held 2 September 2008 (next to be held 2012)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - VP
11, NUP 8, UMP 7, VRP 7, PPP 4, GC 2, MPP 1, NA 1, NAG 1, PAP 1,
Shepherds Alliance 1, VFFP 1, VLP 1, VNP 1, VPRFP 1, and independent
4; note - political party associations are fluid
note: the National Council of Chiefs advises on matters of culture
and language


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (chief justice is appointed by the president after
consultation with the prime minister and the leader of the
opposition, three other justices are appointed by the president on
the advice of the Judicial Service Commission)


Political parties and leaders:

Greens Confederation or GC [Moana CARCASSES]; Jon Frum Movement or
JF [Song KEASPAI]; Melanesian Progressive Party or MPP [Barak SOPE];
Nagriamel movement or NAG [Havo MOLI]; Namangi Aute or NA [Paul
TELUKLUK]; National United Party or NUP [Ham LINI]; People's Action
Party or PAP [Peter VUTA]; People's Progressive Party or PPP [Sato
KILMAN]; Shepherds Alliance Party [leader NA]; Union of Moderate
Parties or UMP [Serge VOHOR]; Vanuatu Family First Party or VFFP
[Eta RORI]; Vanuatu Labor Party or VLP [Joshua KALSAKAU]; Vanuatu
National Party or VNP [Issac HAMARILIU]; Vanua'aku Pati (Our Land
Party) or VP [Edward NATAPEI]; Vanuatu Republican Party or VRP
[Maxime Carlot KORMAN]; Vanuatu Republican Farmers Party or VPRFP
[Jean RAVOU]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

ACCT, ACP, ADB, C, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFC, IFRCS,
ILO, IMF, IMO, IOC, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OAS (observer), OIF, OPCW,
PIF, Sparteca, SPC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WMO, WTO
(observer)


Diplomatic representation in the US:

Vanuatu does not have an embassy in the US; it does, however, have a
Permanent Mission to the UN


Diplomatic representation from the US:

the US does not have an embassy in Vanuatu; the ambassador to Papua
New Guinea is accredited to Vanuatu


Flag description:

two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and green with a black
isosceles triangle (based on the hoist side) all separated by a
black-edged yellow stripe in the shape of a horizontal Y (the two
points of the Y face the hoist side and enclose the triangle);
centered in the triangle is a boar's tusk encircling two crossed
namele leaves, all in yellow


Economy
Vanuatu



Economy - overview:

This South Pacific island economy is based primarily on small-scale
agriculture, which provides a living for 65% of the population.
Fishing, offshore financial services, and tourism, with more than
60,000 visitors in 2005, are other mainstays of the economy. Mineral
deposits are negligible; the country has no known petroleum
deposits. A small light industry sector caters to the local market.
Tax revenues come mainly from import duties. Economic development is
hindered by dependence on relatively few commodity exports,
vulnerability to natural disasters, and long distances from main
markets and between constituent islands. In response to foreign
concerns, the government has promised to tighten regulation of its
offshore financial center. In mid-2002 the government stepped up
efforts to boost tourism through improved air connections, resort
development, and cruise ship facilities. Agriculture, especially
livestock farming, is a second target for growth. Australia and New
Zealand are the main suppliers of tourists and foreign aid.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$897 million (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$455 million (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

5% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$3,900 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 26%
industry: 12%
services: 62% (2000 est.)


Labor force:

76,410 (1999)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 65%
industry: 5%
services: 30% (2000 est.)


Unemployment rate:

1.7% (1999)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $78.7 million
expenditures: $72.23 million (2005)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

3.9% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

6% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

8.16% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$107.1 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$421.8 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$229.5 million (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

copra, coconuts, cocoa, coffee, taro, yams, fruits, vegetables;
beef; fish


Industries:

food and fish freezing, wood processing, meat canning


Industrial production growth rate:

1% (1997 est.)


Electricity - production:

46 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

39.99 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

660 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

671.1 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$60 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$40 million f.o.b. (2006)


Exports - commodities:

copra, beef, cocoa, timber, kava, coffee


Exports - partners:

Thailand 58.3%, India 18.5%, Japan 11.3% (2007)


Imports:

$156 million c.i.f. (2006)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, foodstuffs, fuels


Imports - partners:

Australia 20.7%, Singapore 11.8%, NZ 11.2%, Norway 8.5%, US 8.3%,
Fiji 8.1%, China 7.2%, New Caledonia 4.5% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$39.48 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$40.54 million (2003)


Debt - external:

$81.2 million (2004)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

vatu (VUV)


Currency code:

VUV


Exchange rates:

vatu (VUV) per US dollar - NA (2007), 111.93 (2006), NA (2005),
111.79 (2004), 122.19 (2003)


Communications
Vanuatu



Telephones - main lines in use:

8,800 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

26,000 (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: NA
domestic: NA
international: country code - 678; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 2, FM 4, shortwave 1 (2001)


Radios:

67,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

1 (2004)


Televisions:

2,300 (1999)


Internet country code:

.vu


Internet hosts:

990 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

17,000 (2007)


Transportation
Vanuatu



Airports:

31 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 3
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 28
914 to 1,523 m: 6
under 914 m: 22 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 1,070 km
paved: 256 km
unpaved: 814 km (1999)


Merchant marine:

total: 54
by type: bulk carrier 32, cargo 8, container 1, liquefied gas 2,
passenger 1, petroleum tanker 1, refrigerated cargo 4, vehicle
carrier 5
foreign-owned: 54 (Australia 2, Belgium 4, Canada 5, Estonia 1,
Greece 1, Japan 29, Monaco 1, Poland 7, Russia 2, Switzerland 1, US
1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Forari, Port-Vila, Santo (Espiritu Santo)


Military
Vanuatu



Military branches:

no regular military forces; Vanuatu Police Force (VPF), Vanuatu
Mobile Force (VMF; includes Police Maritime Wing (PMW)) (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 58,900 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 40,577 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 2,385
female: 2,290 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

NA


Transnational Issues
Vanuatu



Disputes - international:

Matthew and Hunter Islands east of New Caledonia claimed by Vanuatu
and France



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Venezuela

Introduction
Venezuela



Background:

Venezuela was one of three countries that emerged from the collapse
of Gran Colombia in 1830 (the others being Ecuador and New Granada,
which became Colombia). For most of the first half of the 20th
century, Venezuela was ruled by generally benevolent military
strongmen, who promoted the oil industry and allowed for some social
reforms. Democratically elected governments have held sway since
1959. Hugo CHAVEZ, president since 1999, seeks to implement his
"21st Century Socialism," which purports to alleviate social ills
while at the same time attacking globalization and undermining
regional stability. Current concerns include: a weakening of
democratic institutions, political polarization, a politicized
military, drug-related violence along the Colombian border,
increasing internal drug consumption, overdependence on the
petroleum industry with its price fluctuations, and irresponsible
mining operations that are endangering the rain forest and
indigenous peoples.


Geography
Venezuela



Location:

Northern South America, bordering the Caribbean Sea and the North
Atlantic Ocean, between Colombia and Guyana


Geographic coordinates:

8 00 N, 66 00 W


Map references:

South America


Area:

total: 912,050 sq km
land: 882,050 sq km
water: 30,000 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly more than twice the size of California


Land boundaries:

total: 4,993 km
border countries: Brazil 2,200 km, Colombia 2,050 km, Guyana 743 km


Coastline:

2,800 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 15 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation


Climate:

tropical; hot, humid; more moderate in highlands


Terrain:

Andes Mountains and Maracaibo Lowlands in northwest; central plains
(llanos); Guiana Highlands in southeast


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
highest point: Pico Bolivar (La Columna) 5,007 m


Natural resources:

petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, gold, bauxite, other minerals,
hydropower, diamonds


Land use:

arable land: 2.85%
permanent crops: 0.88%
other: 96.27% (2005)


Irrigated land:

5,750 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

1,233.2 cu km (2000)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 8.37 cu km/yr (6%/7%/47%)
per capita: 313 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

subject to floods, rockslides, mudslides; periodic droughts


Environment - current issues:

sewage pollution of Lago de Valencia; oil and urban pollution of
Lago de Maracaibo; deforestation; soil degradation; urban and
industrial pollution, especially along the Caribbean coast; threat
to the rainforest ecosystem from irresponsible mining operations


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Hazardous Wastes, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection,
Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands
signed but not ratified:: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

on major sea and air routes linking North and South America; Angel
Falls in the Guiana Highlands is the world's highest waterfall


People
Venezuela



Population:

26,414,816 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 31% (male 4,162,862/female 4,034,044)
15-64 years: 63.8% (male 8,299,266/female 8,562,290)
65 years and over: 5.1% (male 602,725/female 753,628) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 25.2 years
male: 24.6 years
female: 25.8 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.498% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

20.92 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

5.1 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-0.84 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.97 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.8 male(s)/female
total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 22.02 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 25.61 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 18.26 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 73.45 years
male: 70.4 years
female: 76.65 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.52 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.7%; note - no country specific models provided (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

110,000 (1999 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

4,100 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A
vectorborne disease: dengue fever, malaria, and Venezuelan equine
encephalitis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Venezuelan(s)
adjective: Venezuelan


Ethnic groups:

Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, Arab, German, African, indigenous
people


Religions:

nominally Roman Catholic 96%, Protestant 2%, other 2%


Languages:

Spanish (official), numerous indigenous dialects


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 93%
male: 93.3%
female: 92.7% (2001 census)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 12 years
male: 11 years
female: 12 years (2003)


Education expenditures:

3.7% of GDP (2006)


Government
Venezuela



Country name:

conventional long form: Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela
conventional short form: Venezuela
local long form: Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela
local short form: Venezuela


Government type:

federal republic


Capital:

name: Caracas
geographic coordinates: 10 30 N, 66 56 W
time difference: UTC-4.5 (half an hour ahead of Washington, DC
during Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

23 states (estados, singular - estado), 1 capital district*
(distrito capital), and 1 federal dependency** (dependencia
federal); Amazonas, Anzoategui, Apure, Aragua, Barinas, Bolivar,
Carabobo, Cojedes, Delta Amacuro, Dependencias Federales**, Distrito
Federal*, Falcon, Guarico, Lara, Merida, Miranda, Monagas, Nueva
Esparta, Portuguesa, Sucre, Tachira, Trujillo, Vargas, Yaracuy, Zulia
note: the federal dependency consists of 11 federally controlled
island groups with a total of 72 individual islands


Independence:

5 July 1811 (from Spain)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 5 July (1811)


Constitution:

30 December 1999


Legal system:

open, adversarial court system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Hugo CHAVEZ Frias (since 3 February 1999);
Executive Vice President Ramon Alonzo CARRIZALEZ Rengifo (since 4
January 2008); note - the president is both the chief of state and
head of government
head of government: President Hugo CHAVEZ Frias (since 3 February
1999); Executive Vice President Ramon Alonzo CARRIZALEZ Rengifo
(since 4 January 2008)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
elections: president elected by popular vote for a six-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 3 December 2006
(next to be held in December 2012)
note: in 1999, a National Constituent Assembly drafted a new
constitution that increased the presidential term to six years; an
election was subsequently held on 30 July 2000 under the terms of
this constitution
election results: Hugo CHAVEZ Frias reelected president; percent of
vote - Hugo CHAVEZ Frias 62.9%, Manuel ROSALES 36.9%


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly or Asamblea Nacional (167 seats;
members elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms; three
seats reserved for the indigenous peoples of Venezuela)
elections: last held 4 December 2005 (next to be held in 2010)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
pro-government 167 (MVR 114, PODEMOS 15, PPT 11, indigenous 2, other
25), opposition 0; total seats by party as of 1 January 2008 -
pro-government 152 (PSUV 114, PPT 11, indigenous 2, other 25),
PODEMOS 15


Judicial branch:

Supreme Tribunal of Justice or Tribuna Suprema de Justicia
(magistrates are elected by the National Assembly for a single
12-year term)


Political parties and leaders:

A New Time or UNT [Manuel ROSALES]; Christian Democrats or COPEI
[Cesar PEREZ Vivas]; Communist Party of Venezuela or PCV [Jeronimo
CARRERA]; Democratic Action or AD [Henry RAMOS Allup]; Fatherland
for All or PPT [Jose ALBORNOZ]; Justice First [Julio BORGES];
Movement Toward Socialism or MAS [Hector MUJICA]; United Socialist
Party of Venezuela or PSUV [Hugo CHAVEZ]; Venezuela Project or PV
[Henrique SALAS Romer]; We Can or PODEMOS [Ismael GARCIA]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

FEDECAMARAS, a conservative business group; VECINOS groups;
Venezuelan Confederation of Workers or CTV (labor organization
dominated by the Democratic Action)


International organization participation:

Caricom (observer), CDB, FAO, G-15, G-24, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD,
ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES, LAIA, LAS
(observer), Mercosur (associate), MIGA, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW,
OPEC, PCA, RG, UN, UNASUR, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, Union
Latina, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Angelo
SANTOS
chancery: 1099 30th Street NW, Washington, DC 20007
telephone: [1] (202) 342-2214
FAX: [1] (202) 342-6820
consulate(s) general: Boston, Chicago, Houston, Miami, New Orleans,
New York, San Francisco, San Juan (Puerto Rico)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires John
CAULFIELD
embassy: Calle F con Calle Suapure, Urbanizacion Colinas de Valle
Arriba, Caracas 1080
mailing address: P. O. Box 62291, Caracas 1060-A; APO AA 34037
telephone: [58] (212) 975-6411, 907-8400 (after hours)
FAX: [58] (212) 907-8199


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of yellow (top), blue, and red with the
coat of arms on the hoist side of the yellow band and an arc of
eight white five-pointed stars centered in the blue band


Economy
Venezuela



Economy - overview:

Venezuela remains highly dependent on oil revenues, which account
for roughly 90% of export earnings, more than 50% of the federal
budget revenues, and around 30% of GDP. A nationwide strike between
December 2002 and February 2003 had far-reaching economic
consequences - real GDP declined by around 9% in 2002 and 8% in 2003
- but economic output since then has recovered strongly. Fueled by
high oil prices, record government spending helped to boost GDP in
2006 by about 9% and in 2007 by about 8%. This spending, combined
with recent minimum wage hikes and improved access to domestic
credit, has created a consumption boom but has come at the cost of
higher inflation-roughly 20 percent in 2007. Imports also have
jumped significantly. Embolden by his December 2006 reelection,
President Hugo CHAVEZ in 2007 nationalized firms in the petroleum,
communications, and electricity sectors, which reduced foreign
influence in the economy. Although voters in December 2007 rejected
CHAVEZ's proposed constitutional changes, CHAVEZ still has
significant control of the economy and has indicated he intends to
continue to consolidate and centralize authority over the economy by
implementing "21st Century Socialism."


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$334.3 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$236.4 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

8.4% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$12,800 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 3.8%
industry: 38.4%
services: 57.8% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

12.37 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 13%
industry: 23%
services: 64% (1997 est.)


Unemployment rate:

8.5% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

37.9% (end 2005 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 0.7%
highest 10%: 35.2% (2003)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

48.2 (2003)


Investment (gross fixed):

23.7% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $65.83 billion
expenditures: $58.9 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

19.3% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

18.7% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

28.5% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

17.11% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$63.18 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$8.889 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$50.24 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

corn, sorghum, sugarcane, rice, bananas, vegetables, coffee; beef,
pork, milk, eggs; fish


Industries:

petroleum, construction materials, food processing, textiles; iron
ore mining, steel, aluminum; motor vehicle assembly


Industrial production growth rate:

3.9% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

110.7 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

83.84 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

542 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 31.7%
hydro: 68.3%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

2.667 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

738,300 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

2.203 million bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - imports:

0 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - proved reserves:

87.04 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

26.5 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

26.5 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

4.708 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

$20 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$69.17 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

petroleum, bauxite and aluminum, steel, chemicals, agricultural
products, basic manufactures


Exports - partners:

US 42.7%, Netherlands Antilles 8%, China 3.1% (2007)


Imports:

$45.46 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

raw materials, machinery and equipment, transport equipment,
construction materials


Imports - partners:

US 26.6%, Colombia 13.5%, Brazil 9.5%, China 6.7%, Mexico 5.2%,
Panama 5% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$48.66 million (2005)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$33.48 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$43.33 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$43.96 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$13.81 billion (2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$8.251 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

bolivar (VEB)


Currency code:

VEB


Exchange rates:

bolivars (VEB) per US dollar - 2,147 (2007), 2,147 (2006), 2,089.8
(2005), 1,891.3 (2004), 1,607 (2003)
note: On 1 January 2008 Venezuela revalued its currency with 1000
old bolivares equal to 1 new bolivar


Communications
Venezuela



Telephones - main lines in use:

5.082 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

23.82 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: modern and expanding
domestic: domestic satellite system with 3 earth stations; recent
substantial improvement in telephone service in rural areas;
substantial increase in digitalization of exchanges and trunk lines;
installation of a national interurban fiber-optic network capable of
digital multimedia services; fixed-line teledensity 20 per 100
persons; mobile-cellular teledensity more than 90 per 100 persons
international: country code - 58; submarine cable systems provide
connectivity to the Caribbean, Central and South America, and US;
satellite earth stations - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) and 1
PanAmSat; participating with Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia in
the construction of an international fiber-optic network (2007)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 201, FM NA (20 in Caracas), shortwave 11 (1998)


Radios:

10.75 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

66 (plus 45 repeaters) (1997)


Televisions:

4.1 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.ve


Internet hosts:

145,394 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

16 (2000)


Internet users:

5.72 million (2007)


Transportation
Venezuela



Airports:

390 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 128
over 3,047 m: 5
2,438 to 3,047 m: 10
1,524 to 2,437 m: 34
914 to 1,523 m: 61
under 914 m: 18 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 262
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 15
914 to 1,523 m: 97
under 914 m: 149 (2007)


Heliports:

2 (2007)


Pipelines:

extra heavy crude oil 992 km; gas 5,400 km; oil 7,607 km; refined
products 1,650 km; unknown (oil/water) 141 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 682 km
standard gauge: 682 km 1.435-m gauge (2006)


Roadways:

total: 96,155 km
paved: 32,308 km
unpaved: 63,847 km (2002)


Waterways:

7,100 km
note: Orinoco River (400 km) and Lake de Maracaibo navigable by
oceangoing vessels (2005)


Merchant marine:

total: 62
by type: bulk carrier 9, cargo 16, chemical tanker 3, liquefied gas
5, passenger/cargo 10, petroleum tanker 17, refrigerated cargo 2
foreign-owned: 12 (Chile 1, Denmark 1, Greece 3, Mexico 5, Panama 1,
Spain 1)
registered in other countries: 12 (Bahamas 1, Panama 10, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

La Guaira, Maracaibo, Puerto Cabello, Punta Cardon


Transportation - note:

the International Maritime Bureau reports the territorial and
offshore waters in the Caribbean Sea as a significant risk for
piracy and armed robbery against ships; numerous vessels, including
commercial shipping and pleasure craft, have been attacked and
hijacked both at anchor and while underway; crews have been robbed
and stores or cargoes stolen


Military
Venezuela



Military branches:

National Armed Forces (Fuerza Armada Nacionale, FAN): Ground Forces
or Army (Fuerzas Terrestres or Ejercito), Naval Forces (Fuerzas
Navales or Armada; includes Marines, Coast Guard), Air Force
(Fuerzas Aereas or Aviacion), Armed Forces of Cooperation or
National Guard (Fuerzas Armadas de Cooperacion or Guardia Nacional)


Military service age and obligation:

18-30 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military service;
30-month conscript service obligation - all citizens 18-50 years old
are obligated to register for military service (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 6,647,124
females age 16-49: 6,801,133 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 5,280,974
females age 16-49: 5,768,814 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 275,323
female: 274,106 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.2% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Venezuela



Disputes - international:

claims all of the area west of the Essequibo River in Guyana,
preventing any discussion of a maritime boundary; Guyana has
expressed its intention to join Barbados in asserting claims before
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) that
Trinidad and Tobago's maritime boundary with Venezuela extends into
their waters; dispute with Colombia over maritime boundary and
Venezuelan-administered Los Monjes islands near the Gulf of
Venezuela; Colombian-organized illegal narcotics and paramilitary
activities penetrate Venezuela's shared border region; in 2006, an
estimated 139,000 Colombians sought protection in 150 communities
along the border in Venezuela; US, France, and the Netherlands
recognize Venezuela's granting full effect to Aves Island, thereby
claiming a Venezuelan EEZ/continental shelf extending over a large
portion of the eastern Caribbean Sea; Dominica, Saint Kitts and
Nevis, Saint Lucia, and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines protest
Venezuela's full effect claim


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Venezuela is a source, transit, and destination
country for men, women, and children trafficked for the purposes of
commercial sexual exploitation and forced labor; Venezuelan women
and girls are trafficked within the country for sexual exploitation,
lured from the nation's interior to urban and tourist areas; child
prostitution in urban areas and child sex tourism in resort
destinations appear to be growing; Venezuelan women and girls are
trafficked for commercial sexual exploitation to Western Europe,
Mexico, and Caribbean destinations
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Venezuela is placed on the Tier 2
Watch List, up from Tier 3, as it showed greater resolve to address
trafficking through law enforcement measures and prevention efforts
in 2007, although stringent punishment of offenders and victim
assistance remain lacking (2008)


Illicit drugs:

small-scale illicit producer of opium and coca for the processing of
opiates and coca derivatives; however, large quantities of cocaine,
heroin, and marijuana transit the country from Colombia bound for US
and Europe; significant narcotics-related money-laundering activity,
especially along the border with Colombia and on Margarita Island;
active eradication program primarily targeting opium; increasing
signs of drug-related activities by Colombian insurgents on border



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Vietnam

Introduction
Vietnam



Background:

The conquest of Vietnam by France began in 1858 and was completed by
1884. It became part of French Indochina in 1887. Vietnam declared
independence after World War II, but France continued to rule until
its 1954 defeat by Communist forces under Ho Chi MINH. Under the
Geneva Accords of 1954, Vietnam was divided into the Communist North
and anti-Communist South. US economic and military aid to South
Vietnam grew through the 1960s in an attempt to bolster the
government, but US armed forces were withdrawn following a
cease-fire agreement in 1973. Two years later, North Vietnamese
forces overran the South reuniting the country under Communist rule.
Despite the return of peace, for over a decade the country
experienced little economic growth because of conservative
leadership policies. However, since the enactment of Vietnam's "doi
moi" (renovation) policy in 1986, Vietnamese authorities have
committed to increased economic liberalization and enacted
structural reforms needed to modernize the economy and to produce
more competitive, export-driven industries. The country continues to
experience protests from various groups - such as the Protestant
Montagnard ethnic minority population of the Central Highlands and
the Hoa Hao Buddhists in southern Vietnam over religious
persecution. Montagnard grievances also include the loss of land to
Vietnamese settlers.


Geography
Vietnam



Location:

Southeastern Asia, bordering the Gulf of Thailand, Gulf of Tonkin,
and South China Sea, alongside China, Laos, and Cambodia


Geographic coordinates:

16 00 N, 106 00 E


Map references:

Southeast Asia


Area:

total: 329,560 sq km
land: 325,360 sq km
water: 4,200 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than New Mexico


Land boundaries:

total: 4,639 km
border countries: Cambodia 1,228 km, China 1,281 km, Laos 2,130 km


Coastline:

3,444 km (excludes islands)


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin


Climate:

tropical in south; monsoonal in north with hot, rainy season (May to
September) and warm, dry season (October to March)


Terrain:

low, flat delta in south and north; central highlands; hilly,
mountainous in far north and northwest


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: South China Sea 0 m
highest point: Fan Si Pan 3,144 m


Natural resources:

phosphates, coal, manganese, bauxite, chromate, offshore oil and gas
deposits, forests, hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 20.14%
permanent crops: 6.93%
other: 72.93% (2005)


Irrigated land:

30,000 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

891.2 cu km (1999)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 71.39 cu km/yr (8%/24%/68%)
per capita: 847 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

occasional typhoons (May to January) with extensive flooding,
especially in the Mekong River delta


Environment - current issues:

logging and slash-and-burn agricultural practices contribute to
deforestation and soil degradation; water pollution and overfishing
threaten marine life populations; groundwater contamination limits
potable water supply; growing urban industrialization and population
migration are rapidly degrading environment in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh
City


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

extending 1,650 km north to south, the country is only 50 km across
at its narrowest point


People
Vietnam



Population:

86,116,560 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 25.6% (male 11,418,642/female 10,598,184)
15-64 years: 68.6% (male 29,341,216/female 29,777,696)
65 years and over: 5.8% (male 1,925,609/female 3,055,212) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 26.9 years
male: 25.8 years
female: 28 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.99% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

16.47 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

6.18 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-0.39 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.07 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.08 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.63 male(s)/female
total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 23.61 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 24.01 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 23.19 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 71.33 years
male: 68.52 years
female: 74.33 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.86 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.4% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

220,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

9,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: dengue fever, malaria, Japanese encephalitis,
and plague
water contact disease: leptospirosis
note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Vietnamese (singular and plural)
adjective: Vietnamese


Ethnic groups:

Kinh (Viet) 86.2%, Tay 1.9%, Thai 1.7%, Muong 1.5%, Khome 1.4%, Hoa
1.1%, Nun 1.1%, Hmong 1%, others 4.1% (1999 census)


Religions:

Buddhist 9.3%, Catholic 6.7%, Hoa Hao 1.5%, Cao Dai 1.1%, Protestant
0.5%, Muslim 0.1%, none 80.8% (1999 census)


Languages:

Vietnamese (official), English (increasingly favored as a second
language), some French, Chinese, and Khmer; mountain area languages
(Mon-Khmer and Malayo-Polynesian)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 90.3%
male: 93.9%
female: 86.9% (2002 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 10 years
male: 11 years
female: 10 years (2000)


Education expenditures:

1.8% of GDP (1991)


Government
Vietnam



Country name:

conventional long form: Socialist Republic of Vietnam
conventional short form: Vietnam
local long form: Cong Hoa Xa Hoi Chu Nghia Viet Nam
local short form: Viet Nam
abbreviation: SRV


Government type:

Communist state


Capital:

name: Hanoi
geographic coordinates: 21 02 N, 105 51 E
time difference: UTC+7 (12 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

59 provinces (tinh, singular and plural) and 5 municipalities (thanh
pho, singular and plural)
provinces: An Giang, Bac Giang, Bac Kan, Bac Lieu, Bac Ninh, Ba
Ria-Vung Tau, Ben Tre, Binh Dinh, Binh Duong, Binh Phuoc, Binh
Thuan, Ca Mau, Cao Bang, Dac Lak, Dac Nong, Dien Bien, Dong Nai,
Dong Thap, Gia Lai, Ha Giang, Ha Nam, Ha Tay, Ha Tinh, Hai Duong,
Hau Giang, Hoa Binh, Hung Yen, Khanh Hoa, Kien Giang, Kon Tum, Lai
Chau, Lam Dong, Lang Son, Lao Cai, Long An, Nam Dinh, Nghe An, Ninh
Binh, Ninh Thuan, Phu Tho, Phu Yen, Quang Binh, Quang Nam, Quang
Ngai, Quang Ninh, Quang Tri, Soc Trang, Son La, Tay Ninh, Thai Binh,
Thai Nguyen, Thanh Hoa, Thua Thien-Hue, Tien Giang, Tra Vinh, Tuyen
Quang, Vinh Long, Vinh Phuc, Yen Bai
municipalities: Can Tho, Da Nang, Hai Phong, Ha Noi, Ho Chi Minh


Independence:

2 September 1945 (from France)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 2 September (1945)


Constitution:

15 April 1992


Legal system:

based on communist legal theory and French civil law system; has not
accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Nguyen Minh TRIET (since 27 June 2006);
Vice President Nguyen Thi DOAN (since 25 July 2007)
head of government: Prime Minister Nguyen Tan DUNG (since 27 June
2006); Permanent Deputy Prime Minister Nguyen Sinh HUNG (since 28
June 2006), Deputy Prime Minister Hoang Trung HAI (since 2 August
2007), Deputy Prime Minister Nguyen Thien NHAN (since 2 August
2007), Deputy Prime Minister Pham Gia KHIEM (since 28 June 2006),
and Deputy Prime Minister Truong Vinh TRONG (since 28 June 2006)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by president based on proposal of prime
minister and confirmed by National Assembly
elections: president elected by the National Assembly from among its
members for five-year term; last held 27 June 2006 (next to be held
in 2011); prime minister appointed by the president from among the
members of the National Assembly; deputy prime ministers appointed
by the prime minister; appointment of prime minister and deputy
prime ministers confirmed by National Assembly
election results: Nguyen Minh TRIET elected president; percent of
National Assembly vote - 94%; Nguyen Tan DUNG elected prime
minister; percent of National Assembly vote - 92%


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly or Quoc Hoi (500 seats; members elected
by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held 20 May 2007 (next to be held in May 2012)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
CPV 450, non-party CPV-approved 42, self-nominated 1; note - 493
candidates were elected; CPV and non-party CPV-approved delegates
were members of the Vietnamese Fatherland Front


Judicial branch:

Supreme People's Court (chief justice is elected for a five-year
term by the National Assembly on the recommendation of the president)


Political parties and leaders:

Communist Party of Vietnam or CPV [Nong Duc MANH]; other parties
proscribed


Political pressure groups and leaders:

8406 Bloc; Democratic Party of Vietnam or DPV; People's Democratic
Party Vietnam or PDP-VN; Alliance for Democracy
note: these groups advocate democracy but are not recognized by the
government


International organization participation:

ADB, APEC, APT, ARF, ASEAN, CP, EAS, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC,
IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, MIGA, NAM, OIF, OPCW, UN, UN Security
Council (temporary), UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO,
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Le Cong PHUNG
chancery: 1233 20th Street NW, Suite 400, Washington, DC 20036
telephone: [1] (202) 861-0737
FAX: [1] (202) 861-0917
consulate(s) general: San Francisco


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Michael W. MICHALAK
embassy: 7 Lang Ha Street, Ba Dinh District, Hanoi
mailing address: PSC 461, Box 400, FPO AP 96521-0002
telephone: [84] (4) 3850-5000
FAX: [84] (4) 3850-5010
consulate(s) general: Ho Chi Minh City


Flag description:

red field with a large yellow five-pointed star in the center


Economy
Vietnam



Economy - overview:

Vietnam is a densely-populated developing country that in the last
30 years has had to recover from the ravages of war, the loss of
financial support from the old Soviet Bloc, and the rigidities of a
centrally-planned economy. Economic stagnation marked the period
after reunification from 1975 to 1985. In 1986, the Sixth Party
Congress approved a broad economic reform package that introduced
market reforms and set the groundwork for Vietnam's improved
investment climate. Substantial progress was achieved from 1986 to
1997 in moving forward from an extremely low level of development
and significantly reducing poverty. The 1997 Asian financial crisis
highlighted the problems in the Vietnamese economy and temporarily
allowed opponents of reform to slow progress toward a
market-oriented economy. GDP growth averaged 6.8% per year from 1997
to 2004 even against the background of the Asian financial crisis
and a global recession. Since 2001, Vietnamese authorities have
reaffirmed their commitment to economic liberalization and
international integration. They have moved to implement the
structural reforms needed to modernize the economy and to produce
more competitive, export-driven industries. The economy grew 8.5% in
2007. Vietnam's membership in the ASEAN Free Trade Area (AFTA) and
entry into force of the US-Vietnam Bilateral Trade Agreement in
December 2001 have led to even more rapid changes in Vietnam's trade
and economic regime. Vietnam's exports to the US increased 900% from
2001 to 2007. Vietnam joined the WTO in January 2007, following over
a decade long negotiation process. WTO membership has provided
Vietnam an anchor to the global market and reinforced the domestic
economic reform process. Among other benefits, accession allows
Vietnam to take advantage of the phase-out of the Agreement on
Textiles and Clothing, which eliminated quotas on textiles and
clothing for WTO partners on 1 January 2005. Agriculture's share of
economic output has continued to shrink, from about 25% in 2000 to
less than 20% in 2007. Deep poverty, defined as a percent of the
population living under $1 per day, has declined significantly and
is now smaller than that of China, India, and the Philippines.
Vietnam is working to create jobs to meet the challenge of a labor
force that is growing by more than one-and-a-half million people
every year. In an effort to stem high inflation which took off in
2007, early in 2008 Vietnamese authorities began to raise benchmark
interest rates and reserve requirements. Hanoi is targeting an
economic growth rate of 7.5-8% during the next four years.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$221.1 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$70.02 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

8.5% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$2,600 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 19.5%
industry: 42.3%
services: 38.2% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

46.42 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 55.6%
industry: 18.9%
services: 25.5% (July 2005)


Unemployment rate:

4.3% (2007 est.)


Population below poverty line:

14.8% (2007 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.9%
highest 10%: 28.9% (2004)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

37 (2004)


Investment (gross fixed):

37.1% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $18.62 billion
expenditures: $19.71 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

42% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

8.3% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

6.5% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

11.18% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$27.15 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$51.08 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$68.63 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

paddy rice, coffee, rubber, cotton, tea, pepper, soybeans, cashews,
sugar cane, peanuts, bananas; poultry; fish, seafood


Industries:

food processing, garments, shoes, machine-building; mining, coal,
steel; cement, chemical fertilizer, glass, tires, oil, paper


Industrial production growth rate:

10.6% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

61.02 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

48.08 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 43.7%
hydro: 56.3%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

350,700 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

271,100 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

394,400 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

271,100 bbl/day (2007)


Oil - proved reserves:

600 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

6.86 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

6.86 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

192.5 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$6.993 billion (2007 est.)


Exports:

$48.56 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

crude oil, marine products, rice, coffee, rubber, tea, garments,
shoes


Exports - partners:

US 20.8%, Japan 12.5%, Australia 7.3%, China 6.9%, Singapore 4.5%
(2007)


Imports:

$58.92 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and equipment, petroleum products, fertilizer, steel
products, raw cotton, grain, cement, motorcycles


Imports - partners:

China 19.9%, Singapore 12.1%, Taiwan 11%, Japan 9.9%, South Korea
8.5%, Thailand 6% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$5.4 billion in credits and grants pledged by the 2007 Consultative
Group meeting in Hanoi (2007)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$23.87 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$21.83 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$32.74 billion (2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

dong (VND)


Currency code:

VND


Exchange rates:

dong (VND) per US dollar - 16,119 (2007), 15,983 (2006), 15,746
(2005), NA (2004), 15,510 (2003)


Communications
Vietnam



Telephones - main lines in use:

10.8 million (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

33.2 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: Vietnam is putting considerable effort into
modernization and expansion of its telecommunication system, but its
performance continues to lag behind that of its more modern neighbors
domestic: all provincial exchanges are digitalized and connected to
Hanoi, Da Nang, and Ho Chi Minh City by fiber-optic cable or
microwave radio relay networks; main lines have been substantially
increased, and the use of mobile telephones is growing rapidly
international: country code - 84; a landing point for the
SEA-ME-WE-3, the C2C, and Thailand-Vietnam-Hong Kong submarine cable
systems; the Asia-America Gateway submarine cable system, scheduled
for completion by the end of 2008, will provide new access links to
Asia and the US; satellite earth stations - 2 Intersputnik (Indian
Ocean region)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 65, FM 7, shortwave 29 (1999)


Radios:

8.2 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

67 (includes 61 relay, provincial, and city TV stations) (2006)


Televisions:

3.57 million (1997)


Internet country code:

.vn


Internet hosts:

84,151 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

5 (2000)


Internet users:

17.87 million (2007)


Transportation
Vietnam



Airports:

44 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 37
over 3,047 m: 9
2,438 to 3,047 m: 5
1,524 to 2,437 m: 13
914 to 1,523 m: 10 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 7
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 3
under 914 m: 3 (2007)


Heliports:

1 (2007)


Pipelines:

condensate/gas 432 km; gas 510 km; oil 49 km; refined products 206
km (2007)


Railways:

total: 2,600 km
standard gauge: 178 km 1.435-m gauge
narrow gauge: 2,169 km 1.000-m gauge
dual gauge: 253 km three-rail track combining 1.435 m and 1.000-m
gauges (2006)


Roadways:

total: 222,179 km
paved: 42,167 km
unpaved: 180,012 km (2004)


Waterways:

17,702 km (5,000 km navigable by vessels up to 1.8 m draft) (2005)


Merchant marine:

total: 387
by type: barge carrier 1, bulk carrier 36, cargo 280, chemical
tanker 12, container 14, liquefied gas 6, passenger 1,
passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 32, refrigerated cargo 2, roll
on/roll off 1, specialized tanker 1
foreign-owned: 2 (Hong Kong 1, Japan 1)
registered in other countries: 64 (Honduras 1, Liberia 4, Mongolia
23, Panama 30, Tuvalu 5, unknown 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Da Nang, Hai Phong, Ho Chi Minh City


Transportation - note:

the International Maritime Bureau reports the territorial and
offshore waters in the South China Sea as high risk for piracy and
armed robbery against ships; numerous commercial vessels have been
attacked and hijacked both at anchor and while underway; hijacked
vessels are often disguised and cargo diverted to ports in East
Asia; crews have been murdered or cast adrift


Military
Vietnam



Military branches:

People's Armed Forces: People's Army of Vietnam (PAVN) (includes
People's Navy Command (with naval infantry, coast guard), Air and
Air Defense Force (Kon Quan Nhan Dan), Border Defense Command),
People's Public Security Forces, Militia Force, Self-Defense Forces
(2005)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age (male) for compulsory military service; females may
volunteer for active duty military service; conscript service
obligation - 2 years (3 to 4 years in the navy); 18-45 years of age
(male) or 18-40 years of age (female) for Militia Force or Self
Defense Forces (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 24,586,328
females age 16-49: 24,335,132 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 18,849,274
females age 16-49: 20,575,884 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 903,734
female: 845,306 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

2.5% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Vietnam



Disputes - international:

southeast Asian states have enhanced border surveillance to check
the spread of avian flu; Cambodia and Laos protest Vietnamese
squatters and armed encroachments along border; an estimated 300,000
Vietnamese refugees reside in China; establishment of a maritime
boundary with Cambodia is hampered by unresolved dispute over the
sovereignty of offshore islands; demarcation of the China-Vietnam
boundary proceeds slowly and although the maritime boundary
delimitation and fisheries agreements were ratified in June 2004,
implementation has been delayed; China occupies the Paracel Islands
also claimed by Vietnam and Taiwan; involved in complex dispute with
China, Malaysia, Philippines, Taiwan, and possibly Brunei over the
Spratly Islands; the 2002 "Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in
the South China Sea" has eased tensions but falls short of a legally
binding "code of conduct" desired by several of the disputants;
Vietnam continues to expand construction of facilities in the
Spratly Islands; in March 2005, the national oil companies of China,
the Philippines, and Vietnam signed a joint accord to conduct marine
seismic activities in the Spratly Islands


Illicit drugs:

minor producer of opium poppy; probable minor transit point for
Southeast Asian heroin; government continues to face domestic
opium/heroin/methamphetamine addiction problems despite longstanding
crackdowns



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Virgin Islands

Introduction
Virgin Islands



Background:

During the 17th century, the archipelago was divided into two
territorial units, one English and the other Danish. Sugarcane,
produced by slave labor, drove the islands' economy during the 18th
and early 19th centuries. In 1917, the US purchased the Danish
portion, which had been in economic decline since the abolition of
slavery in 1848.


Geography
Virgin Islands



Location:

Caribbean, islands between the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic
Ocean, east of Puerto Rico


Geographic coordinates:

18 20 N, 64 50 W


Map references:

Central America and the Caribbean


Area:

total: 1,910 sq km
land: 346 sq km
water: 1,564 sq km


Area - comparative:

twice the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

188 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

subtropical, tempered by easterly trade winds, relatively low
humidity, little seasonal temperature variation; rainy season
September to November


Terrain:

mostly hilly to rugged and mountainous with little level land


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
highest point: Crown Mountain 475 m


Natural resources:

sun, sand, sea, surf


Land use:

arable land: 5.71%
permanent crops: 2.86%
other: 91.43% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

several hurricanes in recent years; frequent and severe droughts and
floods; occasional earthquakes


Environment - current issues:

lack of natural freshwater resources


Geography - note:

important location along the Anegada Passage - a key shipping lane
for the Panama Canal; Saint Thomas has one of the best natural
deepwater harbors in the Caribbean


People
Virgin Islands



Population:

109,840 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 21% (male 11,698/female 11,390)
15-64 years: 66.2% (male 34,035/female 38,670)
65 years and over: 12.8% (male 6,312/female 7,735) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 38.5 years
male: 38 years
female: 39 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

0.002% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

12.29 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

6.55 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-5.72 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.88 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.82 male(s)/female
total population: 0.9 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 7.72 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 8.43 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 6.96 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 78.92 years
male: 75.9 years
female: 82.11 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

1.88 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Virgin Islander(s) (US citizens)
adjective: Virgin Islander


Ethnic groups:

black 76.2%, white 13.1%, Asian 1.1%, other 6.1%, mixed 3.5% (2000
census)


Religions:

Baptist 42%, Roman Catholic 34%, Episcopalian 17%, other 7%


Languages:

English 74.7%, Spanish or Spanish Creole 16.8%, French or French
Creole 6.6%, other 1.9% (2000 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 90-95% est.
male: NA%
female: NA% (2005 est.)


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
Virgin Islands



Country name:

conventional long form: United States Virgin Islands
conventional short form: Virgin Islands
former: Danish West Indies
abbreviation: USVI


Dependency status:

organized, unincorporated territory of the US with policy relations
between the Virgin Islands and the US under the jurisdiction of the
Office of Insular Affairs, US Department of the Interior


Government type:

NA


Capital:

name: Charlotte Amalie
geographic coordinates: 18 21 N, 64 56 W
time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

none (territory of the US); there are no first-order administrative
divisions as defined by the US Government, but there are three
islands at the second order; Saint Croix, Saint John, Saint Thomas


Independence:

none (territory of the US)


National holiday:

Transfer Day (from Denmark to the US), 31 March (1917)


Constitution:

Revised Organic Act of 22 July 1954


Legal system:

based on US laws


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal; island residents are US citizens but do
not vote in US presidential elections


Executive branch:

chief of state: President George W. BUSH of the US (since 20 January
2001); Vice President Richard B. CHENEY (since 20 January 2001)
head of government: Governor John DeJONGH (since 1 January 2007)
cabinet: NA
elections: under the US Constitution, residents of unincorporated
territories, such as the Virgin Islands, do not vote in elections
for US president and vice president; however, they may vote in the
Democratic and Republican presidential primary elections; governor
and lieutenant governor elected on the same ticket by popular vote
for four-year terms (eligible for a second term); election last held
7 and 21 November 2006 (next to be held November 2010)
election results: John DeJONGH elected governor; percent of vote -
John DeJONGH 57.3%, Kenneth MAPP 42.7%


Legislative branch:

unicameral Senate (15 seats; members are elected by popular vote to
serve two-year terms)
elections: last held 7 November 2006 (next to be held November 2008)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
Democratic Party 8, ICM 4, independent 3
note: the Virgin Islands elects one non-voting representative to the
US House of Representatives; election last held 7 November 2006
(next to be held November 2008)


Judicial branch:

US District Court of the Virgin Islands (under Third Circuit
jurisdiction); Superior Court of the Virgin Islands (judges
appointed by the governor for 10-year terms)


Political parties and leaders:

Democratic Party [Arturo WATLINGTON]; Independent Citizens' Movement
or ICM [Usie RICHARDS]; Republican Party [Gary SPRAUVE]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

IOC, UPU, WFTU


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (territory of the US)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (territory of the US)


Flag description:

white field with a modified US coat of arms in the center between
the large blue initials V and I; the coat of arms shows a yellow
eagle holding an olive branch in one talon and three arrows in the
other with a superimposed shield of vertical red and white stripes
below a blue panel


Economy
Virgin Islands



Economy - overview:

Tourism is the primary economic activity, accounting for 80% of GDP
and employment. The islands hosted 2.6 million visitors in 2005. The
manufacturing sector consists of petroleum refining, textiles,
electronics, pharmaceuticals, and watch assembly. One of the world's
largest petroleum refineries is at Saint Croix. The agricultural
sector is small, with most food being imported. International
business and financial services are small but growing components of
the economy. The islands are vulnerable to substantial damage from
storms. The government is working to improve fiscal discipline, to
support construction projects in the private sector, to expand
tourist facilities, to reduce crime, and to protect the environment.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$1.577 billion (2004 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$NA


GDP - real growth rate:

2% (2002 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$14,500 (2004 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 1%
industry: 19%
services: 80% (2003 est.)


Labor force:

43,980 (2004 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 1%
industry: 19%
services: 80% (2003 est.)


Unemployment rate:

6.2% (2004)


Population below poverty line:

28.9% (2002)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $NA
expenditures: $NA


Fiscal year:

1 October - 30 September


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.2% (2003)


Agriculture - products:

fruit, vegetables, sorghum; Senepol cattle


Industries:

tourism, petroleum refining, watch assembly, rum distilling,
construction, pharmaceuticals, textiles, electronics


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

960 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

892.8 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

17,620 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

91,680 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

398,500 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

492,300 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

NA


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Exports:

$4.234 billion (2001)


Exports - commodities:

refined petroleum products


Exports - partners:

US, Puerto Rico (2006)


Imports:

$4.609 billion (2001)


Imports - commodities:

crude oil, foodstuffs, consumer goods, building materials


Imports - partners:

US, Puerto Rico (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$NA


Debt - external:

$NA


Currency (code):

US dollar (USD)


Currency code:

USD


Exchange rates:

the US dollar is used


Communications
Virgin Islands



Telephones - main lines in use:

71,700 (2005)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

80,300 (2005)


Telephone system:

general assessment: modern system with total digital switching, uses
fiber-optic cable and microwave radio relay
domestic: full range of services available
international: country code - 1-340; submarine cable connections to
US, the Caribbean, Central and South America; satellite earth
stations - NA


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 6, FM 16, shortwave 0 (2005)


Radios:

107,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

5 (2006)


Televisions:

68,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.vi


Internet hosts:

4,610 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

50 (2000)


Internet users:

30,000 (2007)


Transportation
Virgin Islands



Airports:

2 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 2
over 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 1,257 km (2007)


Ports and terminals:

Charlotte Amalie, Limetree Bay


Military
Virgin Islands



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 861
female: 897 (2008 est.)


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of the US


Transnational Issues
Virgin Islands



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Wake Island

Introduction
Wake Island



Background:

The US annexed Wake Island in 1899 for a cable station. An important
air and naval base was constructed in 1940-41. In December 1941, the
island was captured by the Japanese and held until the end of World
War II. In subsequent years, Wake was developed as a stopover and
refueling site for military and commercial aircraft transiting the
Pacific. Since 1974, the island's airstrip has been used by the US
military, as well as for emergency landings. All operations on the
island were suspended and all personnel evacuated in August 2006
with the approach of super typhoon IOKE (category 5), which struck
the island with sustained winds of 250 kph and a 6 m storm surge
inflicting major damage. A US Air Force assessment and repair team
returned to the island in September and restored limited function to
the airfield and facilities. The future status of activities on the
island will be determined upon completion of the survey and
assessment.


Geography
Wake Island



Location:

Oceania, atoll in the North Pacific Ocean, about two-thirds of the
way from Hawaii to the Northern Mariana Islands


Geographic coordinates:

19 17 N, 166 39 E


Map references:

Oceania


Area:

total: 6.5 sq km
land: 6.5 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

about 11 times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

19.3 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical


Terrain:

atoll of three low coral islands, Peale, Wake, and Wilkes, built up
on an underwater volcano; central lagoon is former crater, islands
are part of the rim


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: unnamed location 6 m


Natural resources:

none


Land use:

arable land: 0%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 100% (2005)


Irrigated land:

0 sq km


Natural hazards:

occasional typhoons


Environment - current issues:

NA


Geography - note:

strategic location in the North Pacific Ocean; emergency landing
location for transpacific flights


People
Wake Island



Population:

no indigenous inhabitants
note: since super typhoon IOKE, a small military contingent along
with 75 contractor personnel have returned to the island to conduct
clean-up and restore basic operations on the island (July 2008 est.)


Government
Wake Island



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Wake Island


Dependency status:

unorganized, unincorporated territory of the US; administered from
Washington, DC, by the Department of the Interior; activities in the
atoll are currently conducted by the US Air Force


Legal system:

the laws of the US, where applicable, apply


Flag description:

the flag of the US is used


Economy
Wake Island



Economy - overview:

Economic activity is limited to providing services to military
personnel and contractors located on the island. All food and
manufactured goods must be imported.


Electricity - production:

NA kWh


Communications
Wake Island



Telephone system:

general assessment: satellite communications; 2 DSN circuits off the
Overseas Telephone System (OTS)
domestic: NA
international: NA


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 0, FM 0, shortwave 0 (Armed Forces Radio/Television Service
(AFRTS) radio service provided by satellite (2005)


Television broadcast stations:

0 (2005)


Transportation
Wake Island



Airports:

1 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1 (2007)


Ports and terminals:

none; two offshore anchorages for large ships


Transportation - note:

there are no commercial or civilian flights to and from Wake Island,
except in direct support of island missions; emergency landing is
available


Military
Wake Island



Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of the US; the US Air Force is
responsible for overall administration and operation of the island;
the launch support facility is administered by the US Missile
Defense Agency (MDA)


Transnational Issues
Wake Island



Disputes - international:

claimed by Marshall Islands



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Wallis and Futuna

Introduction
Wallis and Futuna



Background:

The Futuna island group was discovered by the Dutch in 1616 and
Wallis by the British in 1767, but it was the French who declared a
protectorate over the islands in 1842. In 1959, the inhabitants of
the islands voted to become a French overseas territory.


Geography
Wallis and Futuna



Location:

Oceania, islands in the South Pacific Ocean, about two-thirds of the
way from Hawaii to New Zealand


Geographic coordinates:

13 18 S, 176 12 W


Map references:

Oceania


Area:

total: 274 sq km
land: 274 sq km
water: 0 sq km
note: includes Ile Uvea (Wallis Island), Ile Futuna (Futuna Island),
Ile Alofi, and 20 islets


Area - comparative:

1.5 times the size of Washington, DC


Land boundaries:

0 km


Coastline:

129 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm


Climate:

tropical; hot, rainy season (November to April); cool, dry season
(May to October); rains 2,500-3,000 mm per year (80% humidity);
average temperature 26.6 degrees C


Terrain:

volcanic origin; low hills


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
highest point: Mont Singavi 765 m


Natural resources:

NEGL


Land use:

arable land: 7.14%
permanent crops: 35.71%
other: 57.15% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

NA


Environment - current issues:

deforestation (only small portions of the original forests remain)
largely as a result of the continued use of wood as the main fuel
source; as a consequence of cutting down the forests, the
mountainous terrain of Futuna is particularly prone to erosion;
there are no permanent settlements on Alofi because of the lack of
natural fresh water resources


Geography - note:

both island groups have fringing reefs


People
Wallis and Futuna



Population:

15,237 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: (male 2,215/female 1,999)
15-64 years: (male 4,982/female 4,996)
65 years and over: (male 465/female 580)


Population growth rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Death rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA
note: there has been steady emigration from Wallis and Futuna to New
Caledonia (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: NA
male: NA
female: NA (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: NA
male: NA
female: NA (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

NA (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Wallisian(s), Futunan(s), or Wallis and Futuna Islanders
adjective: Wallisian, Futunan, or Wallis and Futuna Islander


Ethnic groups:

Polynesian


Religions:

Roman Catholic 99%, other 1%


Languages:

Wallisian 58.9% (indigenous Polynesian language), Futunian 30.1%,
French 10.8%, other 0.2% (2003 census)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 50%
male: 50%
female: 50% (1969 est.)


Government
Wallis and Futuna



Country name:

conventional long form: Territory of the Wallis and Futuna Islands
conventional short form: Wallis and Futuna
local long form: Territoire des Iles Wallis et Futuna
local short form: Wallis et Futuna


Dependency status:

overseas territory of France


Government type:

NA


Capital:

name: Mata-Utu (on Ile Uvea)
geographic coordinates: 13 57 S, 171 56 W
time difference: UTC+12 (17 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

none (overseas territory of France); there are no first-order
administrative divisions as defined by the US Government, but there
are three kingdoms at the second order named Alo, Sigave, Wallis


Independence:

none (overseas territory of France)


National holiday:

Bastille Day, 14 July (1789)


Constitution:

4 October 1958 (French Constitution)


Legal system:

the laws of France, where applicable, apply


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Nicolas SARKOZY (since 16 May 2007);
represented by High Administrator Philippe PAOLANTONI (since 28 July
2008)
head of government: President of the Territorial Assembly Patalione
KANIMOA (since January 2001)
cabinet: Council of the Territory consists of three kings and three
members appointed by the high administrator on the advice of the
Territorial Assembly
note: there are three traditional kings with limited powers
elections: French president elected by popular vote for a five-year
term; high administrator appointed by the French president on the
advice of the French Ministry of the Interior; the presidents of the
Territorial Government and the Territorial Assembly are elected by
the members of the assembly


Legislative branch:

unicameral Territorial Assembly or Assemblee Territoriale (20 seats;
members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
elections: last held 11 March 2002 (next to be held 22 April 2007)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
RPR and affiliates 13, Socialists and affiliates 7
note: Wallis and Futuna elects one senator to the French Senate and
one deputy to the French National Assembly; French Senate -
elections last held 26 September 2004 (next to be held by September
2010); results - percent of vote by party - NA; seats - RPR (now
UMP) 1; French National Assembly - elections last held 17 June 2007
(next to be held by 2012); results - percent of vote by party - NA;
seats - PS 1


Judicial branch:

justice generally administered under French law by the high
administrator, but the three traditional kings administer customary
law and there is a magistrate in Mata-Utu; a court of appeal is
located in Noumea, New Caledonia


Political parties and leaders:

Lua Kae Tahi (Giscardians); Mouvement des Radicaux de Gauche or MRG;
Rally for the Republic or RPR (UMP) [Clovis LOGOLOGOFOLAU];
Socialist Party or PS; Taumu'a Lelei [Soane Muni UHILA]; Union
Populaire Locale or UPL [Falakiko GATA]; Union Pour la Democratie
Francaise or UDF


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

PIF (observer), SPC, UPU, WFTU


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none (overseas territory of France)


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none (overseas territory of France)


Flag description:

unofficial, local flag has a red field with four white isosceles
triangles in the middle, representing the three native kings of the
islands and the French administrator; the apexes of the triangles
are oriented inward and at right angles to each other; the flag of
France, outlined in white on two sides, is in the upper hoist
quadrant; the flag of France is the only official flag


Economy
Wallis and Futuna



Economy - overview:

The economy is limited to traditional subsistence agriculture, with
about 80% of labor force earnings from agriculture (coconuts and
vegetables), livestock (mostly pigs), and fishing. About 4% of the
population is employed in government. Revenues come from French
Government subsidies, licensing of fishing rights to Japan and South
Korea, import taxes, and remittances from expatriate workers in New
Caledonia.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$60 million (2004 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$NA


GDP - real growth rate:

NA%


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$3,800 (2004 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: NA%
industry: NA%
services: NA%


Labor force:

3,104 (2003)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 80%
industry: 4%
services: 16% (2001 est.)


Unemployment rate:

15.2% (2003)


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $29,730
expenditures: $31,330 (2004)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

5.6% of GDP (2004 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

2.8% (2005)


Agriculture - products:

breadfruit, yams, taro, bananas; pigs, goats; fish


Industries:

copra, handicrafts, fishing, lumber


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

NA kWh


Electricity - consumption:

NA kWh


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2002)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2002)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 0%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0%


Exports:

$47,450 f.o.b. (2004)


Exports - commodities:

copra, chemicals, construction materials


Exports - partners:

Italy 40%, Croatia 15%, US 14%, Denmark 13% (2006)


Imports:

$61.17 million f.o.b. (2004)


Imports - commodities:

chemicals, machinery, passenger ships, consumer goods


Imports - partners:

France 97%, Australia 2%, NZ 1% (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

assistance from France, $NA


Debt - external:

$3.67 million (2004)


Currency (code):

Comptoirs Francais du Pacifique franc (XPF)


Currency code:

XPF


Exchange rates:

Comptoirs Francais du Pacifique francs (XPF) per US dollar - NA
(2007), 95.03 (2006), 95.89 (2005), 96.04 (2004), 105.66 (2003)


Communications
Wallis and Futuna



Telephones - main lines in use:

1,900 (2002)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

NA


Telephone system:

general assessment: NA
domestic: NA
international: country code - 681


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 1, FM 0, shortwave 0 (2000)


Radios:

NA


Television broadcast stations:

2 (2000)


Televisions:

NA


Internet country code:

.wf


Internet hosts:

1 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

900 (2002)


Transportation
Wallis and Futuna



Airports:

2 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)


Merchant marine:

total: 8
by type: chemical tanker 2, passenger 6
foreign-owned: 8 (France 6, French Polynesia 2) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Leava, Mata-Utu


Military
Wallis and Futuna



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 172
female: 170 (2008 est.)


Military - note:

defense is the responsibility of France


Transnational Issues
Wallis and Futuna



Disputes - international:

none



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@West Bank

Introduction
West Bank



Background:

The September 1993 Israel-PLO Declaration of Principles on Interim
Self-Government Arrangements provided for a transitional period of
Palestinian self-rule in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. Under a
series of agreements signed between May 1994 and September 1999,
Israel transferred to the Palestinian Authority (PA) security and
civilian responsibility for Palestinian-populated areas of the West
Bank and Gaza. Negotiations to determine the permanent status of the
West Bank and Gaza stalled following the outbreak of an intifada in
September 2000, as Israeli forces reoccupied most
Palestinian-controlled areas. In April 2003, the Quartet (US, EU,
UN, and Russia) presented a roadmap to a final settlement of the
conflict by 2005 based on reciprocal steps by the two parties
leading to two states, Israel and a democratic Palestine. The
proposed date for a permanent status agreement was postponed
indefinitely due to violence and accusations that both sides had not
followed through on their commitments. Following Palestinian leader
Yasir ARAFAT's death in late 2004, Mahmud ABBAS was elected PA
president in January 2005. A month later, Israel and the PA agreed
to the Sharm el-Sheikh Commitments in an effort to move the peace
process forward. In September 2005, Israel unilaterally withdrew all
its settlers and soldiers and dismantled its military facilities in
the Gaza Strip and withdrew settlers and redeployed soldiers from
four small northern West Bank settlements. Nonetheless, Israel
controls maritime, airspace, and most access to the Gaza Strip. A
November 2005 PA-Israeli agreement authorized the reopening of the
Rafah border crossing between the Gaza Strip and Egypt under joint
PA and Egyptian control. In January 2006, the Islamic Resistance
Movement, HAMAS, won control of the Palestinian Legislative Council
(PLC). The international community refused to accept the HAMAS-led
government because it did not recognize Israel, would not renounce
violence, and refused to honor previous peace agreements between
Israel and the PA. HAMAS took control of the PA government in March
2006, but President ABBAS had little success negotiating with HAMAS
to present a political platform acceptable to the international
community so as to lift economic sanctions on Palestinians. The PLC
was unable to convene throughout most of 2006 as a result of
Israel's detention of many HAMAS PLC members and Israeli-imposed
travel restrictions on other PLC members. Violent clashes took place
between Fatah and HAMAS supporters in the Gaza Strip in 2006 and
early 2007, resulting in numerous Palestinian deaths and injuries.
ABBAS and HAMAS Political Bureau Chief MISHAL in February 2007
signed the Mecca Agreement in Saudi Arabia that resulted in the
formation of a Palestinian National Unity Government (NUG) headed by
HAMAS member Ismail HANIYA. However, fighting continued in the Gaza
Strip, and in June, HAMAS militants succeeded in a violent takeover
of all military and governmental institutions in the Gaza Strip.
ABBAS dismissed the NUG and through a series of presidential decrees
formed a PA government in the West Bank led by independent Salam
FAYYAD. HAMAS rejected the NUG's dismissal and has called for
resuming talks with Fatah, but ABBAS has ruled out negotiations
until HAMAS agrees to a return of PA control over the Gaza Strip and
recognizes the FAYYAD-led government. FAYYAD and his PA government
initiated a series of security and economic reforms to improve
conditions in the West Bank. ABBAS participated in talks with
Israel's Prime Minister OLMERT and secured the release of some
Palestinian prisoners and previously withheld customs revenue.
During a November 2007 international meeting in Annapolis Maryland,
ABBAS and OLMERT agreed to resume peace negotiations with the goal
of reaching a final peace settlement by the end of 2008.


Geography
West Bank



Location:

Middle East, west of Jordan


Geographic coordinates:

32 00 N, 35 15 E


Map references:

Middle East


Area:

total: 5,860 sq km
land: 5,640 sq km
water: 220 sq km
note: includes West Bank, Latrun Salient, and the northwest quarter
of the Dead Sea, but excludes Mt. Scopus; East Jerusalem and
Jerusalem No Man's Land are also included only as a means of
depicting the entire area occupied by Israel in 1967


Area - comparative:

slightly smaller than Delaware


Land boundaries:

total: 404 km
border countries: Israel 307 km, Jordan 97 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

temperate; temperature and precipitation vary with altitude, warm to
hot summers, cool to mild winters


Terrain:

mostly rugged dissected upland, some vegetation in west, but barren
in east


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Dead Sea -408 m
highest point: Tall Asur 1,022 m


Natural resources:

arable land


Land use:

arable land: 16.9%
permanent crops: 18.97%
other: 64.13% (2001)


Irrigated land:

150 sq km; note - includes Gaza Strip (2003)


Natural hazards:

droughts


Environment - current issues:

adequacy of fresh water supply; sewage treatment


Geography - note:

landlocked; highlands are main recharge area for Israel's coastal
aquifers; there are about 340 Israeli civilian sites--including 100
small outpost communities in the West Bank and 29 sites in East
Jerusalem (July 2008 est.)


People
West Bank



Population:

2,407,681
note: in addition, there are about 187,000 Israeli settlers in the
West Bank and fewer than 177,000 in East Jerusalem (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 38% (male 469,754/female 445,999)
15-64 years: 58.3% (male 719,267/female 684,790)
65 years and over: 3.6% (male 36,606/female 51,265) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 20.2 years
male: 20 years
female: 20.4 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.225% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

25.95 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

3.7 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.71 male(s)/female
total population: 1.04 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 16.51 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 18.5 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 14.39 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 74.29 years
male: 72.32 years
female: 76.38 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

3.31 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: NA
adjective: NA


Ethnic groups:

Palestinian Arab and other 83%, Jewish 17%


Religions:

Muslim 75% (predominantly Sunni), Jewish 17%, Christian and other 8%


Languages:

Arabic, Hebrew (spoken by Israeli settlers and many Palestinians),
English (widely understood)


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 92.4%
male: 96.7%
female: 88% (2004 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 14 years
male: 13 years
female: 14 years (2006)


Education expenditures:

NA


Government
West Bank



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: West Bank


Economy
West Bank



Economy - overview:

The West Bank - the larger of the two areas comprising the
Palestinian Authority (PA) - has experienced a general decline in
economic conditions since the second intifada began in September
2000. The downturn has been largely a result of Israeli closure
policies - the imposition of closures and access restrictions in
response to security concerns in Israel - which disrupted labor and
trading relationships. In 2001, and even more severely in 2002,
Israeli military measures in PA areas resulted in the destruction of
capital, the disruption of administrative structures, and widespread
business closures. International aid of at least $1.14 billion to
the West Bank and Gaza Strip in 2004 prevented the complete collapse
of the economy and allowed some reforms in the government's
financial operations. In 2005, high unemployment and limited trade
opportunities - due to continued closures both within the West Bank
and externally - stymied growth. Israel's and the international
community's financial embargo of the PA when HAMAS ran the PA during
March 2006 - June 2007 has interrupted the provision of PA social
services and the payment of PA salaries. Since June the Fayyad
government in the West Bank has restarted salary payments and the
provision of services but would be unable to operate absent high
levels of international assistance.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$5.034 billion (includes Gaza Strip) (2006 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$5.328 billion (includes Gaza Strip) (2006 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

-8% (includes Gaza Strip) (2006 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$1,100 (includes Gaza Strip) (2006 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 8%
industry: 13%
services: 79% (includes Gaza Strip) (2006 est.)


Labor force:

605,000 (2006)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 18%
industry: 15%
services: 67% (2006)


Unemployment rate:

18.6% (2006)


Population below poverty line:

46% (2007 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $1.149 billion
expenditures: $2.31 billion
note: includes Gaza Strip (2006)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

3.6% (includes Gaza Strip) (2006)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

7.73% (31 December 2006)


Stock of money:

$1.574 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$3.048 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$1.455 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

olives, citrus, vegetables; beef, dairy products


Industries:

generally small family businesses that produce cement, textiles,
soap, olive-wood carvings, and mother-of-pearl souvenirs; the
Israelis have established some small-scale, modern industries in the
settlements and industrial centers


Industrial production growth rate:

2.4% (includes Gaza Strip) (2005)


Electricity - production:

NA kWh; note - most electricity imported from Israel; East Jerusalem
Electric Company buys and distributes electricity to Palestinians in
East Jerusalem and its concession in the West Bank; the Israel
Electric Company directly supplies electricity to most Jewish
residents and military facilities; some Palestinian municipalities,
such as Nablus and Janin, generate their own electricity from small
power plants


Electricity - consumption:

NA kWh


Electricity - imports:

NA kWh


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Exports:

$301 million f.o.b.; (includes Gaza Strip) (2005)


Exports - commodities:

olives, fruit, vegetables, limestone


Exports - partners:

Israel, Jordan, Gaza Strip (2006)


Imports:

$2.44 billion c.i.f.; (includes Gaza Strip) (2005)


Imports - commodities:

food, consumer goods, construction materials


Imports - partners:

Israel, Jordan, Gaza Strip (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$1.4 billion; (includes Gaza Strip) (2006 est.)


Debt - external:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$4.461 billion (2005)


Currency (code):

new Israeli shekel (ILS); Jordanian dinar (JOD)


Currency code:

ILS; JOD


Exchange rates:

new Israeli shekels (ILS) per US dollar - 4.14 (2007), 4.4565
(2006), 4.4877 (2005), 4.482 (2004), 4.5541 (2003)


Communications
West Bank



Telephones - main lines in use:

350,400 (includes Gaza Strip) (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

1.026 million (includes Gaza Strip) (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: NA
domestic: Israeli company BEZEK and the Palestinian company PALTEL
are responsible for fixed line services; the Palestinian JAWAL
company provides cellular services
international: country code - 970 (2004)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 0, FM 25, shortwave 0 (2008)


Radios:

NA; note - most Palestinian households have radios (1999)


Television broadcast stations:

30 (2008)


Televisions:

NA; note - many Palestinian households have televisions (1999)


Internet country code:

.ps; note - same as Gaza Strip


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

8 (1999)


Internet users:

355,500 (includes Gaza Strip) (2007)


Transportation
West Bank



Airports:

3 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 3
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Roadways:

total: 5,147 km
paved: 5,147 km
note: includes Gaza Strip (2006)


Military
West Bank



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 29,866
female: 28,372 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

NA


Transnational Issues
West Bank



Disputes - international:

West Bank and Gaza Strip are Israeli-occupied with current status
subject to the Israeli-Palestinian Interim Agreement - permanent
status to be determined through further negotiation; Israel
continues construction of a "seam line" separation barrier along
parts of the Green Line and within the West Bank; Israel withdrew
from four settlements in the northern West Bank in August 2005;
since 1948, about 350 peacekeepers from the UN Truce Supervision
Organization (UNTSO), headquartered in Jerusalem, monitor
ceasefires, supervise armistice agreements, prevent isolated
incidents from escalating, and assist other UN personnel in the
region


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 722,000 (Palestinian Refugees (UNRWA))
(2007)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Western Sahara

Introduction
Western Sahara



Background:

Morocco virtually annexed the northern two-thirds of Western Sahara
(formerly Spanish Sahara) in 1976, and the rest of the territory in
1979, following Mauritania's withdrawal. A guerrilla war with the
Polisario Front contesting Rabat's sovereignty ended in a 1991
UN-brokered cease-fire; a UN-organized referendum on final status
has been repeatedly postponed. In April 2007, Morocco presented an
autonomy plan for the territory to the UN, which the U.S. considers
serious and credible. The Polisario also presented a plan to the UN
in 2007. Since June 2007, representatives from the Government of
Morocco and the Polisario Front have met four times to negotiate the
status of Western Sahara.


Geography
Western Sahara



Location:

Northern Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean, between
Mauritania and Morocco


Geographic coordinates:

24 30 N, 13 00 W


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 266,000 sq km
land: 266,000 sq km
water: 0 sq km


Area - comparative:

about the size of Colorado


Land boundaries:

total: 2,046 km
border countries: Algeria 42 km, Mauritania 1,561 km, Morocco 443 km


Coastline:

1,110 km


Maritime claims:

contingent upon resolution of sovereignty issue


Climate:

hot, dry desert; rain is rare; cold offshore air currents produce
fog and heavy dew


Terrain:

mostly low, flat desert with large areas of rocky or sandy surfaces
rising to small mountains in south and northeast


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Sebjet Tah -55 m
highest point: unnamed elevation 805 m


Natural resources:

phosphates, iron ore


Land use:

arable land: 0.02%
permanent crops: 0%
other: 99.98% (2005)


Irrigated land:

NA


Natural hazards:

hot, dry, dust/sand-laden sirocco wind can occur during winter and
spring; widespread harmattan haze exists 60% of time, often severely
restricting visibility


Environment - current issues:

sparse water and lack of arable land


Environment - international agreements:

party to: none of the selected agreements
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

the waters off the coast are particularly rich fishing areas


People
Western Sahara



Population:

393,831
note: estimate is based on projections by age, sex, fertility,
mortality, and migration; fertility and mortality are based on data
from neighboring countries (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 45.1% (male 90,306/female 87,498)
15-64 years: 52.6% (male 101,730/female 105,313)
65 years and over: 2.3% (male 3,786/female 5,198) (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

2.868% NA (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

39.95 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

11.74 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

NA


Infant mortality rate:

total: 71.13 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 71.22 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 71.04 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 53.92 years NA
male: 51.64 years NA
female: 56.31 years NA (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

NA 5.69 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Nationality:

noun: Sahrawi(s), Sahraoui(s)
adjective: Sahrawi, Sahrawian, Sahraouian


Ethnic groups:

Arab, Berber


Religions:

Muslim


Languages:

Hassaniya Arabic, Moroccan Arabic


Literacy:

NA


Government
Western Sahara



Country name:

conventional long form: none
conventional short form: Western Sahara
former: Spanish Sahara


Government type:

legal status of territory and issue of sovereignty unresolved;
territory contested by Morocco and Polisario Front (Popular Front
for the Liberation of the Saguia el Hamra and Rio de Oro), which in
February 1976 formally proclaimed a government-in-exile of the
Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic (SADR), led by President Mohamed
ABDELAZIZ; territory partitioned between Morocco and Mauritania in
April 1976, with Morocco acquiring northern two-thirds; Mauritania,
under pressure from Polisario guerrillas, abandoned all claims to
its portion in August 1979; Morocco moved to occupy that sector
shortly thereafter and has since asserted administrative control;
the Polisario's government-in-exile was seated as an Organization of
African Unity (OAU) member in 1984; guerrilla activities continued
sporadically until a UN-monitored cease-fire was implemented on 6
September 1991 (Security Council Resolution 690) by the United
Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara or MINURSO


Capital:

none
time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

none (under de facto control of Morocco)


Suffrage:

none; a UN-sponsored voter identification campaign not yet completed


Executive branch:

none


Political pressure groups and leaders:

none


International organization participation:

WFTU


Diplomatic representation in the US:

none


Diplomatic representation from the US:

none


Economy
Western Sahara



Economy - overview:

Western Sahara depends on pastoral nomadism, fishing, and phosphate
mining as the principal sources of income for the population. The
territory lacks sufficient rainfall for sustainable agricultural
production, and most of the food for the urban population must be
imported. Incomes in Western Sahara are substantially below the
Moroccan level. The Moroccan Government controls all trade and other
economic activities in Western Sahara. Morocco and the EU signed a
four-year agreement in July 2006 allowing European vessels to fish
off the coast of Morocco, including the disputed waters off the
coast of Western Sahara. Moroccan energy interests in 2001 signed
contracts to explore for oil off the coast of Western Sahara, which
has angered the Polisario. However, in 2006 the Polisario awarded
similar exploration licenses in the disputed territory, which would
come into force if Morocco and the Polisario resolve their dispute
over Western Sahara.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$NA


GDP (official exchange rate):

$NA


GDP - real growth rate:

NA%


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$NA


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: NA%
industry: NA%
services: 40%


Labor force:

12,000 (2005 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 50%
industry and services: 50% (2005 est.)


Unemployment rate:

NA%


Population below poverty line:

NA%


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: NA%
highest 10%: NA%


Budget:

revenues: $NA
expenditures: $NA


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

NA%


Agriculture - products:

fruits and vegetables (grown in the few oases); camels, sheep, goats
(kept by nomads); fish


Industries:

phosphate mining, handicrafts


Industrial production growth rate:

NA%


Electricity - production:

90 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

83.7 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

1,760 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

1,925 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Exports:

$NA


Exports - commodities:

phosphates 62%


Exports - partners:

Morocco claims and administers Western Sahara, so trade partners are
included in overall Moroccan accounts (2006)


Imports:

$NA


Imports - commodities:

fuel for fishing fleet, foodstuffs


Imports - partners:

Morocco claims and administers Western Sahara, so trade partners are
included in overall Moroccan accounts (2006)


Economic aid - recipient:

$NA


Debt - external:

$NA


Currency (code):

Moroccan dirham (MAD)


Currency code:

MAD


Exchange rates:

Moroccan dirhams (MAD) per US dollar - 8.3563 (2007), 8.7722 (2006),
8.865 (2005), 8.868 (2004), 9.5744 (2003)


Communications
Western Sahara



Telephones - main lines in use:

about 2,000 (1999 est.)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

0 (1999)


Telephone system:

general assessment: sparse and limited system
domestic: NA
international: country code - 212; tied into Morocco's system by
microwave radio relay, tropospheric scatter, and satellite;
satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) linked to
Rabat, Morocco


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 2, FM 0, shortwave 0 (1998)


Radios:

56,000 (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

NA


Televisions:

6,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.eh


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

NA


Transportation
Western Sahara



Airports:

9 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 3
2,438 to 3,047 m: 3 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 6
1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
914 to 1,523 m: 3
under 914 m: 2 (2007)


Ports and terminals:

Ad Dakhla, Cabo Bojador, Laayoune (El Aaiun)


Military
Western Sahara



Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 4,658
female: 4,545 (2008 est.)


Transnational Issues
Western Sahara



Disputes - international:

Morocco claims and administers Western Sahara, whose sovereignty
remains unresolved; UN-administered cease-fire has remained in
effect since September 1991, administered by the UN Mission for the
Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO), but attempts to hold a
referendum have failed and parties thus far have rejected all
brokered proposals; several states have extended diplomatic
relations to the "Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic" represented by
the Polisario Front in exile in Algeria, while others recognize
Moroccan sovereignty over Western Sahara; most of the approximately
102,000 Sahrawi refugees are sheltered in camps in Tindouf, Algeria



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@World

Introduction
World



Background:

Globally, the 20th century was marked by: (a) two devastating world
wars; (b) the Great Depression of the 1930s; (c) the end of vast
colonial empires; (d) rapid advances in science and technology, from
the first airplane flight at Kitty Hawk, North Carolina (US) to the
landing on the moon; (e) the Cold War between the Western alliance
and the Warsaw Pact nations; (f) a sharp rise in living standards in
North America, Europe, and Japan; (g) increased concerns about the
environment, including loss of forests, shortages of energy and
water, the decline in biological diversity, and air pollution; (h)
the onset of the AIDS epidemic; and (i) the ultimate emergence of
the US as the only world superpower. The planet's population
continues to explode: from 1 billion in 1820, to 2 billion in 1930,
3 billion in 1960, 4 billion in 1974, 5 billion in 1988, and 6
billion in 2000. For the 21st century, the continued exponential
growth in science and technology raises both hopes (e.g., advances
in medicine) and fears (e.g., development of even more lethal
weapons of war).


Geography
World



Geographic overview:

The surface of the earth is approximately 70.9% water and 29.1%
land. The former portion is divided into large water bodies termed
oceans. The World Factbook recognizes and describes five oceans,
which are in decreasing order of size: the Pacific Ocean, Atlantic
Ocean, Indian Ocean, Southern Ocean, and Arctic Ocean.
The land portion is generally divided into several, large, discrete
landmasses termed continents. Depending on the convention used, the
number of continents can vary from five to seven. The most common
classification recognizes seven, which are (from largest to
smallest): Asia, Africa, North America, South America, Antarctica,
Europe, and Australia. Asia and Europe are sometimes lumped together
into a Eurasian continent resulting in six continents.
Alternatively, North and South America are sometimes grouped as
simply the Americas, resulting in a continent total of six (or five,
if the Eurasia designation is used).
North America is commonly understood to include the island of
Greenland, the isles of the Caribbean, and to extend south all the
way to the Isthmus of Panama. The easternmost extent of Europe is
generally defined as being the Ural Mountains and the Ural River; on
the southeast the Caspian Sea; and on the south the Caucasus
Mountains, the Black Sea, and the Mediterranean. Africa's northeast
extremity is frequently delimited at the Isthmus of Suez, but for
geopolitical purposes, the Egyptian Sinai Peninsula is often
included as part of Africa. Asia usually incorporates all the
islands of the Philippines, Malaysia, and Indonesia. The islands of
the Pacific are often lumped with Australia into a "land mass"
termed Oceania or Australasia.
Although the above groupings are the most common, different
continental dispositions are recognized or taught in certain parts
of the world, with some arrangements more heavily based on cultural
spheres rather than physical geographic considerations.


Map references:

Physical Map of the World, Political Map of the World, Standard Time
Zones of the World


Area:

total: 510.072 million sq km
land: 148.94 million sq km
water: 361.132 million sq km
note: 70.9% of the world's surface is water, 29.1% is land


Area - comparative:

land area about 16 times the size of the US


Land boundaries:

the land boundaries in the world total 251,060 km (not counting
shared boundaries twice); two nations, China and Russia, each border
14 other countries
note: 45 nations and other areas are landlocked, these include:
Afghanistan, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Central African Republic,
Chad, Czech Republic, Ethiopia, Holy See (Vatican City), Hungary,
Kazakhstan, Kosovo, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lesotho, Liechtenstein,
Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malawi, Mali, Moldova, Mongolia, Nepal,
Niger, Paraguay, Rwanda, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Swaziland,
Switzerland, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Uzbekistan, West
Bank, Zambia, Zimbabwe; two of these, Liechtenstein and Uzbekistan,
are doubly landlocked


Coastline:

356,000 km
note: 94 nations and other entities are islands that border no other
countries, they include: American Samoa, Anguilla, Antigua and
Barbuda, Aruba, Ashmore and Cartier Islands, The Bahamas, Bahrain,
Baker Island, Barbados, Bermuda, Bouvet Island, British Indian Ocean
Territory, British Virgin Islands, Cape Verde, Cayman Islands,
Christmas Island, Clipperton Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands,
Comoros, Cook Islands, Coral Sea Islands, Cuba, Cyprus, Dominica,
Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas), Faroe Islands, Fiji, French
Polynesia, French Southern and Antarctic Lands, Greenland, Grenada,
Guam, Guernsey, Heard Island and McDonald Islands, Howland Island,
Iceland, Isle of Man, Jamaica, Jan Mayen, Japan, Jarvis Island,
Jersey, Johnston Atoll, Kingman Reef, Kiribati, Madagascar,
Maldives, Malta, Marshall Islands, Martinique, Mauritius, Mayotte,
Federated States of Micronesia, Midway Islands, Montserrat, Nauru,
Navassa Island, New Caledonia, New Zealand, Niue, Norfolk Island,
Northern Mariana Islands, Palau, Palmyra Atoll, Paracel Islands,
Philippines, Pitcairn Islands, Puerto Rico, Reunion, Saint
Barthelemy, Saint Helena, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint
Pierre and Miquelon, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Sao
Tome and Principe, Seychelles, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South
Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, Spratly Islands, Sri Lanka,
Svalbard, Tokelau, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Turks and Caicos
Islands, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, Virgin Islands, Wake Island, Wallis and
Futuna, Taiwan


Maritime claims:

a variety of situations exist, but in general, most countries make
the following claims measured from the mean low-tide baseline as
described in the 1982 UN Convention on the Law of the Sea:
territorial sea - 12 nm, contiguous zone - 24 nm, and exclusive
economic zone - 200 nm; additional zones provide for exploitation of
continental shelf resources and an exclusive fishing zone; boundary
situations with neighboring states prevent many countries from
extending their fishing or economic zones to a full 200 nm


Climate:

a wide equatorial band of hot and humid tropical climates - bordered
north and south by subtropical temperate zones - that separate two
large areas of cold and dry polar climates


Terrain:

the greatest ocean depth is the Mariana Trench at 10,924 m in the
Pacific Ocean


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Bentley Subglacial Trench -2,540 m
note: in the oceanic realm, Challenger Deep in the Mariana Trench is
the lowest point, lying -10,924 m below the surface of the Pacific
Ocean
highest point: Mount Everest 8,850 m


Natural resources:

the rapid depletion of nonrenewable mineral resources, the depletion
of forest areas and wetlands, the extinction of animal and plant
species, and the deterioration in air and water quality (especially
in Eastern Europe, the former USSR, and China) pose serious
long-term problems that governments and peoples are only beginning
to address


Land use:

arable land: 10.57%
permanent crops: 1.04%
other: 88.38% (2005)


Irrigated land:

2,770,980 sq km (2003)


Natural hazards:

large areas subject to severe weather (tropical cyclones), natural
disasters (earthquakes, landslides, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions)


Environment - current issues:

large areas subject to overpopulation, industrial disasters,
pollution (air, water, acid rain, toxic substances), loss of
vegetation (overgrazing, deforestation, desertification), loss of
wildlife, soil degradation, soil depletion, erosion; global warming
becoming a greater concern


Geography - note:

the world is now thought to be about 4.55 billion years old, just
about one-third of the 13.7-billion-year age estimated for the
universe


People
World



Population:

6,706,993,152 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 27.3% (male 944,665,142/female 887,471,328)
15-64 years: 65.1%
65 years and over: 7.6% (male 222,808,372/female 284,647,297) (2008
est.)


Median age:

total:
male: 27.4 years
female: 28.7 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.188% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

20.18 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

8.23 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.07 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.78 male(s)/female
total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 42.09 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 44.91 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 39.09 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 66.26 years
male: 64.3 years
female: 68.35 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

2.61 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

NA


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

NA


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Religions:

Christians 33.32% (of which Roman Catholics 16.99%, Protestants
5.78%, Orthodox 3.53%, Anglicans 1.25%), Muslims 21.01%, Hindus
13.26%, Buddhists 5.84%, Sikhs 0.35%, Jews 0.23%, Baha'is 0.12%,
other religions 11.78%, non-religious 11.77%, atheists 2.32% (2007
est.)


Languages:

Mandarin Chinese 13.22%, Spanish 4.88%, English 4.68%, Arabic 3.12%,
Hindi 2.74%, Portuguese 2.69%, Bengali 2.59%, Russian 2.2%, Japanese
1.85%, Standard German 1.44%, French 1.2% (2005 est.)
note: percents are for "first language" speakers only


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 82%
male: 87%
female: 77%
note: over two-thirds of the world's 785 million illiterate adults
are found in only eight countries (India, China, Bangladesh,
Pakistan, Nigeria, Ethiopia, Indonesia, and Egypt); of all the
illiterate adults in the world, two-thirds are women; extremely low
literacy rates are concentrated in three regions, South and West
Asia, Sub-Saharan Africa, and the Arab states, where around
one-third of the men and half of all women are illiterate (2005 est.)


Government
World



Administrative divisions:

266 nations, dependent areas, and other entities


Legal system:

all members of the UN are parties to the statute that established
the International Court of Justice (ICJ) or World Court


Economy
World



Economy - overview:

Global output rose by 5.2% in 2007, led by China (11.4%), India
(9.2%), and Russia (8.1%). The 14 other successor nations of the
USSR and the other old Warsaw Pact nations again experienced widely
divergent growth rates; the three Baltic nations continued as strong
performers, in the 8%-10% range of growth. From 2006 to 2007 growth
rates slowed in all the major industrial countries except for the
United Kingdom (3.1%). Analysts attribute the slowdown to
uncertainties in the financial markets and lowered consumer
confidence. Worldwide, nations varied widely in their growth
results. Externally, the nation-state, as a bedrock
economic-political institution, is steadily losing control over
international flows of people, goods, funds, and technology.
Internally, the central government often finds its control over
resources slipping as separatist regional movements - typically
based on ethnicity - gain momentum, e.g., in many of the successor
states of the former Soviet Union, in the former Yugoslavia, in
India, in Iraq, in Indonesia, and in Canada. Externally, the central
government is losing decisionmaking powers to international bodies,
notably the EU. In Western Europe, governments face the difficult
political problem of channeling resources away from welfare programs
in order to increase investment and strengthen incentives to seek
employment. The addition of 80 million people each year to an
already overcrowded globe is exacerbating the problems of pollution,
desertification, underemployment, epidemics, and famine. Because of
their own internal problems and priorities, the industrialized
countries devote insufficient resources to deal effectively with the
poorer areas of the world, which, at least from an economic point of
view, are becoming further marginalized. The introduction of the
euro as the common currency of much of Western Europe in January
1999, while paving the way for an integrated economic powerhouse,
poses economic risks because of varying levels of income and
cultural and political differences among the participating nations.
The terrorist attacks on the US on 11 September 2001 accentuated a
growing risk to global prosperity, illustrated, for example, by the
reallocation of resources away from investment to anti-terrorist
programs. The opening of war in March 2003 between a US-led
coalition and Iraq added new uncertainties to global economic
prospects. After the initial coalition victory, the complex
political difficulties and the high economic cost of establishing
domestic order in Iraq became major global problems that continued
through 2007.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

GWP (gross world product): $65.61 trillion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

GWP (gross world product): $54.62 trillion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

5.2% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$10,000 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 4%
industry: 32%
services: 64% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

3.131 billion (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 40.2%
industry: 20.5%
services: 39.4% (2007 est.)


Unemployment rate:

30% combined unemployment and underemployment in many
non-industrialized countries; developed countries typically 4%-12%
unemployment (2007 est.)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2.5%
highest 10%: 29.8% (2002 est.)


Investment (gross fixed):

22.7% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

developed countries 1% to 4% typically; developing countries 5% to
20% typically; national inflation rates vary widely in individual
cases, from declining prices in Japan to hyperinflation in one Third
World country (Zimbabwe); inflation rates have declined for most
countries for the last several years, held in check by increasing
international competition from several low wage countries (2005 est.)


Industries:

dominated by the onrush of technology, especially in computers,
robotics, telecommunications, and medicines and medical equipment;
most of these advances take place in OECD nations; only a small
portion of non-OECD countries have succeeded in rapidly adjusting to
these technological forces; the accelerated development of new
industrial (and agricultural) technology is complicating already
grim environmental problems


Industrial production growth rate:

5% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

18.96 trillion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

16.88 trillion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - exports:

655.6 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

627.9 billion kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: NA
hydro: NA
nuclear: NA
other: NA


Oil - production:

84.79 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

85.27 million bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - exports:

66.19 million bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

65.41 million bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

1.332 trillion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

3.021 trillion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

3.198 trillion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

929.9 billion cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

957.6 billion cu m (2007)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

175.4 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Exports:

$13.89 trillion f.o.b. (2006 est.)


Exports - commodities:

the whole range of industrial and agricultural goods and services
top ten - share of world trade: electrical machinery, including
computers 14.8%; mineral fuels, including oil, coal, gas, and
refined products 14.4%; nuclear reactors, boilers, and parts 14.2%;
cars, trucks, and buses 8.9%; scientific and precision instruments
3.5%; plastics 3.4%; iron and steel 2.7%; organic chemicals 2.6%;
pharmaceutical products 2.6%; diamonds, pearls, and precious stones
1.9% (2006 est.)


Exports - partners:

US 13.7%, Germany 7.3%, China 6.2%, France 4.6%, UK 4.5%, Japan 4.1%
(2007)


Imports:

$13.74 trillion f.o.b. (2006 est.)


Imports - commodities:

the whole range of industrial and agricultural goods and services
top ten - share of world trade: see listing for exports


Imports - partners:

China 10.7%, Germany 9.23%, US 8.28%, Japan 5.14%, France 3.99%
(2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

ODA, $106.4 billion (2005)


Debt - external:

$51.78 trillion
note: this figure is the sum total of all countries' external debt,
both public and private (2004 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

World total DFI $14 trillion
top ten recipients of DFI: US $1.966 trillion; UK $1.324 trillion;
France $872.4 billion; Germany $811.0 billion; HK $780.4 billion;
China $758.9 billion; Belgium $703.9 billion; Netherlands $535.1
billion; Canada $527.4 billion; Spain $487.8 billion (year-end 2007
est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

World total DFI $14 trillion
top ten sources of DFI: US $2.627 trillion; UK $1.741 trillion;
France $1.211 trillion; Germany $1.123 trillion; Netherlands $811.4
billion; HK $716.2 billion; Spain $613.9 billion; Switzerland $591.5
billion; Belgium $537.6 billion; Japan $527.8 billion (year-end 2007
est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$53.51 trillion (2006)


Communications
World



Telephones - main lines in use:

1,263,367,600 (2005)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

2,168,433,600 (2005)


Telephone system:

general assessment: NA
domestic: NA
international: NA


Radio broadcast stations:

AM NA, FM NA, shortwave NA


Radios:

NA


Television broadcast stations:

NA


Televisions:

NA


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

10,350 (2000 est.)


Internet users:

1,018,057,389 (2005)


Transportation
World



Airports:

total airports - 49,024
top ten by passengers: Atlanta - 84,846,639; Chicago - 77,028,134;
London - 67,530,197; Tokyo - 65,810,672; Los Angeles - 61,041,066;
Dallas/Fort Worth - 60,226,138; Paris - 56,849,567; Frankfurt -
52,810,683; Beijing - 48,654,770; Denver - 47,325,016
top ten by cargo (metric tons): Memphis - 3,692,081; Hong Kong -
3,609,780; Anchorage - 2,691,395; Seoul - 2,336,572; Tokyo -
2,280,830; Shanghai - 2,168,122; Paris - 2,130,724; Frankfurt -
2,127,646; Louisville (US) - 1,983,032; Singapore - 1,931,881 (2006)


Heliports:

1,359 (2007)


Railways:

total: 1,370,782 km (2006)


Roadways:

total: 68,937,575 km (2008)


Waterways:

671,886 km (2004)


Ports and terminals:

top ten container ports (TEUs): Singapore - 24,792,400; Hong Kong -
23,539,000; Shanghai - 21,710,000; Shenzhen (China) - 18,468,890;
Busan (South Korea) - 12,030,000; Kaohsiung (Taiwan) - 9,774,670; -
Rotterdam - 9,603,000; Dubai (UAE) - 8,923,465; Hamburg - 8,861,545;
Los Angeles - 8,469,853 (2006)


Military
World



Military expenditures:

roughly 2% of GDP of gross world product (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
World



Disputes - international:

stretching over 250,000 km, the world's 322 international land
boundaries separate 194 independent states and 70 dependencies,
areas of special sovereignty, and other miscellaneous entities;
ethnicity, culture, race, religion, and language have divided states
into separate political entities as much as history, physical
terrain, political fiat, or conquest, resulting in sometimes
arbitrary and imposed boundaries; most maritime states have claimed
limits that include territorial seas and exclusive economic zones;
overlapping limits due to adjacent or opposite coasts create the
potential for 430 bilateral maritime boundaries of which 209 have
agreements that include contiguous and non-contiguous segments;
boundary, borderland/resource, and territorial disputes vary in
intensity from managed or dormant to violent or militarized;
undemarcated, indefinite, porous, and unmanaged boundaries tend to
encourage illegal cross-border activities, uncontrolled migration,
and confrontation; territorial disputes may evolve from historical
and/or cultural claims, or they may be brought on by resource
competition; ethnic and cultural clashes continue to be responsible
for much of the territorial fragmentation and internal displacement
of the estimated 6.6 million people and cross-border displacements
of 8.6 million refugees around the world as of early 2006; just over
one million refugees were repatriated in the same period; other
sources of contention include access to water and mineral
(especially hydrocarbon) resources, fisheries, and arable land;
armed conflict prevails not so much between the uniformed armed
forces of independent states as between stateless armed entities
that detract from the sustenance and welfare of local populations,
leaving the community of nations to cope with resultant refugees,
hunger, disease, impoverishment, and environmental degradation


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) estimated
that in December 2006 there was a global population of 8.8 million
registered refugees and as many as 24.5 million IDPs in more than 50
countries; the actual global population of refugees is probably
closer to 10 million given the estimated 1.5 million Iraqi refugees
displaced throughout the Middle East (2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: approximately 800,000 people, mostly women and
children, are trafficked annually across national borders, not
including millions trafficked within their own countries; at least
80% of the victims are female and up to 50% are minors; 75% of all
victims are trafficked into commercial sexual exploitation; almost
two-thirds of the global victims are trafficked intra-regionally
within East Asia and the Pacific (260,000 to 280,000 people) and
Europe and Eurasia (170,000 to 210,000 people)
Tier 2 Watch List: Albania, Argentina, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain,
Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, China, Costa
Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Cyprus, Democratic Republic of the Congo,
Dominican Republic, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, The Gambia,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, India, Jordan, Libya,
Malaysia, Montenegro, Mozambique, Niger, Panama, Republic of the
Congo, Russia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan,
Venezuela, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Tier 3: Algeria, Burma, Cuba, Fiji, Iran, Kuwait, Moldova, North
Korea, Oman, Papua New Guinea, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Syria
(2008)


Illicit drugs:

cocaine: worldwide coca leaf cultivation in 2007 amounted to 232,500
hectares; Colombia produced slightly more than two-thirds of the
worldwide crop, followed by Peru and Bolivia; potential pure cocaine
production decreased 7% to 865 metric tons in 2007; Colombia
conducts aggressive coca eradication campaign, but both Peruvian and
Bolivian Governments are hesitant to eradicate coca in key growing
areas; 551 metric tons of export-quality cocaine (85% pure) is
documented to have been seized or destroyed in 2005; US consumption
of export quality cocaine is estimated to have been in excess of 380
metric tons
opiates: worldwide illicit opium poppy cultivation continued to
increase in 2007, with a potential opium production of 8,400 metric
tons, reaching the highest levels recorded since estimates began in
mid-1980s; Afghanistan is world's primary opium producer, accounting
for 95% of the global supply; Southeast Asia - responsible for 9% of
global opium - saw marginal increases in production; Latin America
produced 1% of global opium, but most was refined into heroin
destined for the US market; if all potential opium was processed
into pure heroin, the potential global production would be 1,000
metric tons of heroin in 2007



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Yemen

Introduction
Yemen



Background:

North Yemen became independent of the Ottoman Empire in 1918. The
British, who had set up a protectorate area around the southern port
of Aden in the 19th century, withdrew in 1967 from what became South
Yemen. Three years later, the southern government adopted a Marxist
orientation. The massive exodus of hundreds of thousands of Yemenis
from the south to the north contributed to two decades of hostility
between the states. The two countries were formally unified as the
Republic of Yemen in 1990. A southern secessionist movement in 1994
was quickly subdued. In 2000, Saudi Arabia and Yemen agreed to a
delimitation of their border.


Geography
Yemen



Location:

Middle East, bordering the Arabian Sea, Gulf of Aden, and Red Sea,
between Oman and Saudi Arabia


Geographic coordinates:

15 00 N, 48 00 E


Map references:

Middle East


Area:

total: 527,970 sq km
land: 527,970 sq km
water: 0 sq km
note: includes Perim, Socotra, the former Yemen Arab Republic (YAR
or North Yemen), and the former People's Democratic Republic of
Yemen (PDRY or South Yemen)


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than twice the size of Wyoming


Land boundaries:

total: 1,746 km
border countries: Oman 288 km, Saudi Arabia 1,458 km


Coastline:

1,906 km


Maritime claims:

territorial sea: 12 nm
contiguous zone: 24 nm
exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin


Climate:

mostly desert; hot and humid along west coast; temperate in western
mountains affected by seasonal monsoon; extraordinarily hot, dry,
harsh desert in east


Terrain:

narrow coastal plain backed by flat-topped hills and rugged
mountains; dissected upland desert plains in center slope into the
desert interior of the Arabian Peninsula


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Arabian Sea 0 m
highest point: Jabal an Nabi Shu'ayb 3,760 m


Natural resources:

petroleum, fish, rock salt, marble; small deposits of coal, gold,
lead, nickel, and copper; fertile soil in west


Land use:

arable land: 2.91%
permanent crops: 0.25%
other: 96.84% (2005)


Irrigated land:

5,500 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

4.1 cu km (1997)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 6.63 cu km/yr (4%/1%/95%)
per capita: 316 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

sandstorms and dust storms in summer


Environment - current issues:

limited natural fresh water resources; inadequate supplies of
potable water; overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
Protection
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

strategic location on Bab el Mandeb, the strait linking the Red Sea
and the Gulf of Aden, one of world's most active shipping lanes


People
Yemen



Population:

23,013,376 (July 2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 46.2% (male 5,415,385/female 5,218,237)
15-64 years: 51.2% (male 5,996,202/female 5,795,779)
65 years and over: 2.6% (male 284,195/female 303,578) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 16.7 years
male: 16.7 years
female: 16.8 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

3.46% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

42.42 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

7.83 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.94 male(s)/female
total population: 1.03 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 56.27 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 60.78 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 51.54 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 62.9 years
male: 60.96 years
female: 64.94 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

6.41 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

0.1% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

12,000 (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

NA


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria
water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Yemeni(s)
adjective: Yemeni


Ethnic groups:

predominantly Arab; but also Afro-Arab, South Asians, Europeans


Religions:

Muslim including Shaf'i (Sunni) and Zaydi (Shia), small numbers of
Jewish, Christian, and Hindu


Languages:

Arabic


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write
total population: 50.2%
male: 70.5%
female: 30% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 9 years
male: 11 years
female: 7 years (2005)


Education expenditures:

9.6% of GDP (2001)


Government
Yemen



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Yemen
conventional short form: Yemen
local long form: Al Jumhuriyah al Yamaniyah
local short form: Al Yaman
former: Yemen Arab Republic [Yemen (Sanaa) or North Yemen] and
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen [Yemen (Aden) or South Yemen]


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Sanaa
geographic coordinates: 15 21 N, 44 12 E
time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

19 governorates (muhafazat, singular - muhafazah); Abyan, 'Adan, Ad
Dali', Al Bayda', Al Hudaydah, Al Jawf, Al Mahrah, Al Mahwit,
'Amran, Dhamar, Hadramawt, Hajjah, Ibb, Lahij, Ma'rib, Sa'dah,
San'a', Shabwah, Ta'izz
note: for electoral and administrative purposes, the capital city of
Sanaa is treated as an additional governorate


Independence:

22 May 1990 (Republic of Yemen was established with the merger of
the Yemen Arab Republic [Yemen (Sanaa) or North Yemen] and the
Marxist-dominated People's Democratic Republic of Yemen [Yemen
(Aden) or South Yemen]); note - previously North Yemen became
independent in November 1918 (from the Ottoman Empire) and became a
republic with the overthrow of the theocratic Imamate in 1962; South
Yemen became independent on 30 November 1967 (from the UK)


National holiday:

Unification Day, 22 May (1990)


Constitution:

16 May 1991; amended 29 September 1994 and February 2001


Legal system:

based on Islamic law, Turkish law, English common law, and local
tribal customary law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Ali Abdallah SALIH (since 22 May 1990, the
former president of North Yemen, assumed office upon the merger of
North and South Yemen); Vice President Maj. Gen. Abd al-Rab Mansur
al-HADI (since 3 October 1994)
head of government: Prime Minister Ali Muhammad MUJAWWAR (since 31
March 2007)
cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
advice of the prime minister
elections: president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term;
election last held 20 September 2006 (next to be held in September
2013); vice president appointed by the president; prime minister and
deputy prime ministers appointed by the president
election results: Ali Abdallah SALIH elected president; percent of
vote - Ali Abdallah SALIH 77.2%, Faysal BIN SHAMLAN 21.8%


Legislative branch:

a bicameral legislature consisting of a Shura Council (111 seats;
members appointed by the president) and a House of Representatives
(301 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve six-year terms)
elections: last held on 27 April 2003 (next to be held in April 2009)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
GPC 228, Islah 47, YSP 7, Nasserite Unionist Party 3, National Arab
Socialist Ba'th Party 2, independents 14


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court


Political parties and leaders:

General People's Congress or GPC [Abdul-Kader BAJAMMAL]; Islamic
Reform Grouping or Islah [Mohammed Abdullah AL-YADOUMI (acting)];
Nasserite Unionist Party [Abdal Malik al-MAKHLAFI]; National Arab
Socialist Ba'th Party [Dr. Qasim SALAM]; Yemeni Socialist Party or
YSP [Ali Salih MUQBIL]; note - there are at least seven more active
political parties


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Muslim Brotherhood; Women National Committee
other: conservative tribal groups


International organization participation:

AFESD, AMF, CAEU, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt (signatory),
ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAS, MIGA, MINURCAT,
MINURSO, MONUC, NAM, OAS (observer), OIC, OPCW, UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOCI, UNOMIG, UNWTO, UPU, WCO,
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Abd al-Wahab Abdallah al-HAJRI
chancery: 2319 Wyoming Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 965-4760
FAX: [1] (202) 337-2017


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Stephen A. SECHE
embassy: Sa'awan Street, Sanaa
mailing address: P. O. Box 22347, Sanaa
telephone: [967] (1) 755-2000 ext. 2153 or 2266
FAX: [967] (1) 303-182


Flag description:

three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and black; similar
to the flag of Syria, which has two green stars in the white band,
and of Iraq, which has an Arabic inscription centered in the white
band; also similar to the flag of Egypt, which has a heraldic eagle
centered in the white band


Economy
Yemen



Economy - overview:

Yemen, one of the poorest countries in the Arab world, reported
average annual growth in the range of 3-4% from 2000 through 2007.
Its economic fortunes depend mostly on declining oil resources, but
the country is trying to diversify its earnings. In 2006 Yemen began
an economic reform program designed to bolster non-oil sectors of
the economy and foreign investment. As a result of the program,
international donors pledged about $5 billion for development
projects. In addition, Yemen has made some progress on reforms over
the last year that will likely encourage foreign investment. Oil
revenues probably increased in 2007 as a result of higher prices.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$56.24 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$21.66 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

2.8% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$2,500 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 12.4%
industry: 40.9%
services: 46.7% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

6.305 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

note: most people are employed in agriculture and herding; services,
construction, industry, and commerce account for less than
one-fourth of the labor force


Unemployment rate:

35% (2003 est.)


Population below poverty line:

45.2% (2003)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 3%
highest 10%: 25.9% (2003)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

33.4 (1998)


Investment (gross fixed):

25% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $7.576 billion
expenditures: $8.391 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

33.5% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

10% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

NA


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

18% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$3.076 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$4.526 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$2.224 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

grain, fruits, vegetables, pulses, qat, coffee, cotton; dairy
products, livestock (sheep, goats, cattle, camels), poultry; fish


Industries:

crude oil production and petroleum refining; small-scale production
of cotton textiles and leather goods; food processing; handicrafts;
small aluminum products factory; cement; commercial ship repair


Industrial production growth rate:

3.2% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

5.017 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

3.804 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - imports:

0 kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 100%
hydro: 0%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

320,600 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

135,400 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

336,600 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

62,850 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

3 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

478.5 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)


Current account balance:

-$362 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$7.311 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

crude oil, coffee, dried and salted fish


Exports - partners:

China 23.3%, India 20.4%, Thailand 19.1%, Japan 7.2%, UAE 5%, US
4.2% (2007)


Imports:

$6.735 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

food and live animals, machinery and equipment, chemicals


Imports - partners:

UAE 15.1%, China 11.6%, US 7.8%, Saudi Arabia 7.1%, Kuwait 5.3%,
Germany 4.8% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$2.3 billion (2003-07 disbursements)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$7.76 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$6.044 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$NA


Currency (code):

Yemeni rial (YER)


Currency code:

YER


Exchange rates:

Yemeni rials (YER) per US dollar - 199.14 (2007), 197.18 (2006),
192.67 (2005), 184.78 (2004), 183.45 (2003)


Communications
Yemen



Telephones - main lines in use:

968,300 (2006)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

2.978 million (2006)


Telephone system:

general assessment: since unification in 1990, efforts have been
made to create a national telecommunications network
domestic: the national network consists of microwave radio relay,
cable, tropospheric scatter, and GSM mobile-cellular telephone
systems; fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity remains low by
regional standards
international: country code - 967; landing point for the
international submarine cable Fiber-Optic Link Around the Globe
(FLAG); satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (2 Indian Ocean and 1
Atlantic Ocean), 1 Intersputnik (Atlantic Ocean region), and 2
Arabsat; microwave radio relay to Saudi Arabia and Djibouti


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 6, FM 1, shortwave 2 (1998)


Radios:

1.05 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

3 (including one Egypt-based station that broadcasts in Yemen); plus
several repeaters (2007)


Televisions:

470,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.ye


Internet hosts:

167 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

1 (2000)


Internet users:

320,000 (2007)


Transportation
Yemen



Airports:

50 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 17
over 3,047 m: 4
2,438 to 3,047 m: 8
1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
914 to 1,523 m: 1
under 914 m: 1 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 33
over 3,047 m: 3
2,438 to 3,047 m: 8
1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
914 to 1,523 m: 13
under 914 m: 4 (2007)


Pipelines:

gas 71 km; liquid petroleum gas 22 km; oil 1,309 km (2007)


Roadways:

total: 71,300 km
paved: 6,200 km
unpaved: 65,100 km (2005)


Merchant marine:

total: 4
by type: cargo 1, chemical tanker 1, petroleum tanker 1, roll
on/roll off 1
registered in other countries: 13 (North Korea 2, Moldova 1, Panama
6, Saint Kitts and Nevis 1, Sierra Leone 2, unknown 1) (2008)


Ports and terminals:

Aden, Hudaydah, Mukalla


Transportation - note:

the International Maritime Bureau reports offshore waters in the
Gulf of Aden are high risk for piracy; numerous vessels, including
commercial shipping and pleasure craft, have been attacked and
hijacked both at anchor and while underway; crew, passengers, and
cargo are held for ransom


Military
Yemen



Military branches:

Army (includes Republican Guard), Navy (includes Marines), Yemen Air
Force (Al Quwwat al Jawwiya al Jamahiriya al Yemeniya; includes Air
Defense Force) (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

voluntary military service program authorized in 2001; 2-year
service obligation (2006)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 5,080,038
females age 16-49: 4,852,555 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 3,585,947
females age 16-49: 3,619,195 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 268,468
female: 258,196 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

6.6% of GDP (2006)


Military - note:

a Coast Guard was established in 2002


Transnational Issues
Yemen



Disputes - international:

Saudi Arabia has reinforced its concrete-filled security barrier
along sections of the fully demarcated border with Yemen to stem
illegal cross-border activities


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 91,587 (Somalia) (2007)



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Zambia

Introduction
Zambia



Background:

The territory of Northern Rhodesia was administered by the [British]
South Africa Company from 1891 until it was taken over by the UK in
1923. During the 1920s and 1930s, advances in mining spurred
development and immigration. The name was changed to Zambia upon
independence in 1964. In the 1980s and 1990s, declining copper
prices and a prolonged drought hurt the economy. Elections in 1991
brought an end to one-party rule, but the subsequent vote in 1996
saw blatant harassment of opposition parties. The election in 2001
was marked by administrative problems with three parties filing a
legal petition challenging the election of ruling party candidate
Levy MWANAWASA. The new president launched an anticorruption
investigation in 2002 to probe high-level corruption during the
previous administration. In 2006-07, this task force successfully
prosecuted four cases, including a landmark civil case in the UK in
which former President CHILUBA and numerous others were found liable
for USD 41 million. MWANAWASA was reelected in 2006 in an election
that was deemed free and fair.


Geography
Zambia



Location:

Southern Africa, east of Angola


Geographic coordinates:

15 00 S, 30 00 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 752,614 sq km
land: 740,724 sq km
water: 11,890 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than Texas


Land boundaries:

total: 5,664 km
border countries: Angola 1,110 km, Democratic Republic of the Congo
1,930 km, Malawi 837 km, Mozambique 419 km, Namibia 233 km, Tanzania
338 km, Zimbabwe 797 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

tropical; modified by altitude; rainy season (October to April)


Terrain:

mostly high plateau with some hills and mountains


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: Zambezi river 329 m
highest point: unnamed location in Mafinga Hills 2,301 m


Natural resources:

copper, cobalt, zinc, lead, coal, emeralds, gold, silver, uranium,
hydropower


Land use:

arable land: 6.99%
permanent crops: 0.04%
other: 92.97% (2005)


Irrigated land:

1,560 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

105.2 cu km (2001)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 1.74 cu km/yr (17%/7%/76%)
per capita: 149 cu m/yr (2000)


Natural hazards:

periodic drought, tropical storms (November to April)


Environment - current issues:

air pollution and resulting acid rain in the mineral extraction and
refining region; chemical runoff into watersheds; poaching seriously
threatens rhinoceros, elephant, antelope, and large cat populations;
deforestation; soil erosion; desertification; lack of adequate water
treatment presents human health risks


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

landlocked; the Zambezi forms a natural riverine boundary with
Zimbabwe


People
Zambia



Population:

11,669,534
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 45.4% (male 2,659,572/female 2,634,379)
15-64 years: 52.3% (male 3,045,536/female 3,053,465)
65 years and over: 2.4% (male 115,662/female 160,920) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 16.9 years
male: 16.8 years
female: 17.1 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

1.654% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

40.52 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

21.35 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

-2.63 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.72 male(s)/female
total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 100.96 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 105.73 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 96.04 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 38.59 years
male: 38.49 years
female: 38.7 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

5.23 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

16.5% (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

920,000 (2003 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

89,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: very high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne diseases: malaria and plague are high risks in some
locations
water contact disease: schistosomiasis
animal contact disease: rabies (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Zambian(s)
adjective: Zambian


Ethnic groups:

African 98.7%, European 1.1%, other 0.2%


Religions:

Christian 50%-75%, Muslim and Hindu 24%-49%, indigenous beliefs 1%


Languages:

English (official), major vernaculars - Bemba, Kaonda, Lozi, Lunda,
Luvale, Nyanja, Tonga, and about 70 other indigenous languages


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write English
total population: 80.6%
male: 86.8%
female: 74.8% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 7 years
male: 7 years
female: 7 years (2000)


Education expenditures:

2% of GDP (2005)


Government
Zambia



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Zambia
conventional short form: Zambia
former: Northern Rhodesia


Government type:

republic


Capital:

name: Lusaka
geographic coordinates: 15 25 S, 28 17 E
time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

9 provinces; Central, Copperbelt, Eastern, Luapula, Lusaka,
Northern, North-Western, Southern, Western


Independence:

24 October 1964 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 24 October (1964)


Constitution:

24 August 1991; amended in 1996 to establish presidential term limits


Legal system:

based on English common law and customary law; judicial review of
legislative acts in an ad hoc constitutional council; has not
accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: President Rupiah BANDA (since 19 August 2008); Vice
President George KUNDA (since 14 November 2008); note - President
BANDA was acting president since the illness and eventual death of
President Levy MWANAWASA on 18 August 2008, he was then elected
president on 30 October 2008 to serve out the remainder of
MWANAWASA's term; the president is both the chief of state and head
of government
head of government: President Rupiah BANDA (since 19 August 2008);
Vice President George KUNDA (since 14 November 2008)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president from among the members
of the National Assembly
elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
(eligible for a second term); election last held 30 October 2008
(next to be held in 2011); vice president appointed by the
president; note - due to the untimely death of former President Levy
MWANAWASA, early elections were held to identify a replacement to
serve out the remainder of his term
election results: Rupiah BANDA elected president; percent of vote -
Rupiah BANDA 40.1%, Michael SATA 38.1%, Hakainde HICHILEMA 19.7%,
Godfrey MIYANDA 0.8%, other 1.3%


Legislative branch:

unicameral National Assembly (158 seats; 150 members are elected by
popular vote, 8 members are appointed by the president, to serve
five-year terms)
elections: last held 28 September 2006 (next to be held in 2011)
election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
MMD 72, PF 44, UDA 27, ULP 2, NDF 1, independents 2; seats not
determined 2


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court (the final court of appeal; justices are appointed by
the president); High Court (has unlimited jurisdiction to hear civil
and criminal cases)


Political parties and leaders:

All Peoples Congress Party [Winright NGONDO]; Forum for Democracy
and Development or FDD [Edith NAWAKWI]; Heritage Party or HP
[Godfrey MIYANDA]; Liberal Progressive Front or LPF [Roger CHONGWE];
Movement for Multiparty Democracy or MMD [Levy MWANAWASA]; National
Democratic Focus or NDF; Patriotic Front or PF [Michael SATA]; Party
of Unity for Democracy and Development or PUDD [Dan PULE]; Reform
Party [Nevers MUMBA]; United Democratic Alliance or UDA; United
Liberal Party or ULP [Sakwiba SIKOTA]; United National Independence
Party or UNIP [Tilyenji KAUNDA]; United Party for National
Development or UPND [Hakainde HICHILEMA]; Zambia Democratic Congress
or ZADECO [Langton SICHONE]; Zambian Republican Party or ZRP
[Benjamin MWILA]


Political pressure groups and leaders:

NA


International organization participation:

ACP, AfDB, AU, C, COMESA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM,
IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO
(correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURCAT, MONUC, NAM, OPCW,
PCA, SADC, UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNMIS,
UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Inonge MBIKUSITA-LEWANIKA
chancery: 2419 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
telephone: [1] (202) 265-9717 through 9719
FAX: [1] (202) 332-0826


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Donald E. BOOTH
embassy: corner of Independence and United Nations Avenues, Lusaka
mailing address: P. O. Box 31617, Lusaka
telephone: [260] (211) 250-955
FAX: [260] (211) 252-225


Flag description:

green field with a panel of three vertical bands of red (hoist
side), black, and orange below a soaring orange eagle, on the outer
edge of the flag


Economy
Zambia



Economy - overview:

Zambia's economy has experienced modest growth in recent years, with
real GDP growth in 2005-07 between 5-6% per year. Privatization of
government-owned copper mines in the 1990s relieved the government
from covering mammoth losses generated by the industry and greatly
improved the chances for copper mining to return to profitability
and spur economic growth. Copper output has increased steadily since
2004, due to higher copper prices and foreign investment. In 2005,
Zambia qualified for debt relief under the Highly Indebted Poor
Country Initiative, consisting of approximately USD 6 billion in
debt relief. Zambia experienced a bumper harvest in 2007, which
helped to boost GDP and agricultural exports and contain inflation.
Although poverty continues to be significant problem in Zambia, its
economy has strengthened, featuring single-digit inflation, a
relatively stable currency, decreasing interest rates, and
increasing levels of trade.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$16.1 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$11.16 billion (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

6% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$1,400 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 17.4%
industry: 26.1%
services: 56.5% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

4.989 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 85%
industry: 6%
services: 9% (2004)


Unemployment rate:

50% (2000 est.)


Population below poverty line:

86% (1993)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 1.2%
highest 10%: 38.8% (2004)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

50.8 (2004)


Investment (gross fixed):

26.2% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $2.655 billion
expenditures: $2.8 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

28.1% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

10.6% (2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

11.73% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

18.89% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$995.8 million (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$1.709 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$1.968 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

corn, sorghum, rice, peanuts, sunflower seed, vegetables, flowers,
tobacco, cotton, sugarcane, cassava (tapioca), coffee; cattle,
goats, pigs, poultry, milk, eggs, hides


Industries:

copper mining and processing, construction, foodstuffs, beverages,
chemicals, textiles, fertilizer, horticulture


Industrial production growth rate:

6.3% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

9.289 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

8.625 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

255 million kWh (2006)


Electricity - imports:

68 million kWh (2007 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 0.5%
hydro: 99.5%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

150 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

14,760 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

190.6 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - imports:

13,810 bbl/day (2005)


Oil - proved reserves:

NA


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$228 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$4.594 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

copper/cobalt 64%, cobalt, electricity; tobacco, flowers, cotton


Exports - partners:

Switzerland 41.8%, South Africa 12%, Thailand 5.9%, Democratic
Republic of the Congo 5.3%, Egypt 5%, Saudi Arabia 4.7%, China 4.1%
(2007)


Imports:

$3.611 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery, transportation equipment, petroleum products,
electricity, fertilizer; foodstuffs, clothing


Imports - partners:

South Africa 47.4%, UAE 6.3%, China 6%, India 4.1%, UK 4% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$504 million (2007)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$1.09 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$2.596 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$NA


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$4.5 billion (2007)


Currency (code):

Zambian kwacha (ZMK)


Currency code:

ZMK


Exchange rates:

Zambian kwacha (ZMK) per US dollar - 3,990.2 (2007), 3,601.5 (2006),
4,463.5 (2005), 4,778.9 (2004), 4,733.3 (2003)


Communications
Zambia



Telephones - main lines in use:

91,800 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

2.639 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: facilities are aging but still among the best in
Sub-Saharan Africa
domestic: high-capacity microwave radio relay connects most larger
towns and cities; several cellular telephone services in operation
and network coverage is improving; Internet service is widely
available; very small aperture terminal (VSAT) networks are operated
by private firms
international: country code - 260; satellite earth stations - 2
Intelsat (1 Indian Ocean and 1 Atlantic Ocean)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 19, FM 5, shortwave 4 (2001)


Radios:

1.2 million (2001)


Television broadcast stations:

9 (2001)


Televisions:

277,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.zm


Internet hosts:

7,610 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

5 (2001)


Internet users:

500,000 (2007)


Transportation
Zambia



Airports:

107 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 9
over 3,047 m: 1
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
914 to 1,523 m: 2 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 98
2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
914 to 1,523 m: 64
under 914 m: 29 (2007)


Pipelines:

oil 771 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 2,157 km
narrow gauge: 2,157 km 1.067-m gauge
note: includes 891 km of the Tanzania-Zambia Railway Authority
(TAZARA) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 91,440 km
paved: 20,117 km
unpaved: 71,323 km (2001)


Waterways:

2,250 km (includes Lake Tanganyika and the Zambezi and Luapula
rivers) (2005)


Ports and terminals:

Mpulungu


Military
Zambia



Military branches:

Zambian National Defense Force (ZNDF): Zambian Army, Zambian Air
Force, National Service (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18 years of age for voluntary military service (16 years of age with
parental consent); no conscription (2008)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 2,678,668
females age 16-49: 2,567,433 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,329,343
females age 16-49: 1,218,114 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 147,358
female: 146,771 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

1.8% of GDP (2005 est.)


Transnational Issues
Zambia



Disputes - international:

in 2004, Zimbabwe dropped objections to plans between Botswana and
Zambia to build a bridge over the Zambezi River, thereby de facto
recognizing a short, but not clearly delimited, Botswana-Zambia
boundary in the river; 42,250 Congolese refugees in Zambia are
offered voluntary repatriation in November 2006, most of whom are
expected to return in the next two years; Angolan refugees too have
been repatriating but 26,450 still remain with 90,000 others from
other neighboring states in 2006


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 42,565 (Angola); 60,874 (Democratic
Republic of the Congo); 4,100 (Rwanda) (2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Zambia is a source, transit, and destination
country for women and children trafficked for the purposes of forced
labor and sexual exploitation; many Zambian child laborers,
particularly those in the agriculture, domestic service, and fishing
sectors, are also victims of human trafficking; Zambian women, lured
by false employment or marriage offers abroad, are trafficked to
South Africa via Zimbabwe and to Europe via Malawi for sexual
exploitation; Zambia is a transit point for regional trafficking of
women and children, particularly from Angola to Namibia and from the
Democratic Republic of the Congo to South Africa for agricultural
labor
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Zambia is on the Tier 2 Watch List
for failing to provide evidence of increasing efforts to combat
severe forms of trafficking, particularly in regard to its inability
to bring alleged traffickers to justice through prosecutions and
convictions; unlike 2006, there were no new prosecutions or
convictions of alleged traffickers in 2007; government efforts to
protect victims of trafficking remained extremely limited throughout
the year (2008)


Illicit drugs:

transshipment point for moderate amounts of methaqualone, small
amounts of heroin, and cocaine bound for southern Africa and
possibly Europe; a poorly developed financial infrastructure coupled
with a government commitment to combating money laundering make it
an unattractive venue for money launderers; major consumer of
cannabis



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@Zimbabwe

Introduction
Zimbabwe



Background:

The UK annexed Southern Rhodesia from the [British] South Africa
Company in 1923. A 1961 constitution was formulated that favored
whites in power. In 1965 the government unilaterally declared its
independence, but the UK did not recognize the act and demanded more
complete voting rights for the black African majority in the country
(then called Rhodesia). UN sanctions and a guerrilla uprising
finally led to free elections in 1979 and independence (as Zimbabwe)
in 1980. Robert MUGABE, the nation's first prime minister, has been
the country's only ruler (as president since 1987) and has dominated
the country's political system since independence. His chaotic land
redistribution campaign, which began in 2000, caused an exodus of
white farmers, crippled the economy, and ushered in widespread
shortages of basic commodities. Ignoring international condemnation,
MUGABE rigged the 2002 presidential election to ensure his
reelection. The ruling ZANU-PF party used fraud and intimidation to
win a two-thirds majority in the March 2005 parliamentary election,
allowing it to amend the constitution at will and recreate the
Senate, which had been abolished in the late 1980s. In April 2005,
Harare embarked on Operation Restore Order, ostensibly an urban
rationalization program, which resulted in the destruction of the
homes or businesses of 700,000 mostly poor supporters of the
opposition. President MUGABE in June 2007 instituted price controls
on all basic commodities causing panic buying and leaving store
shelves empty for months. General elections held in March 2008
contained irregularities but still amounted to a censure of the
ZANU-PF-led government with significant gains in opposition seats in
parliament. MDC opposition leader Morgan TSVANGIRAI won the
presidential polls, and may have won an out right majority, but
official results posted by the Zimbabwe Electoral Committee did not
reflect this. In the lead up to a run-off election in late June
2008, considerable violence enacted against opposition party members
led to the withdrawal of TSVANGIRAI from the ballot. Extensive
evidence of vote tampering and ballot-box stuffing resulted in
international condemnation of the process, and calls for the
creation of a power-sharing government have been ignored.


Geography
Zimbabwe



Location:

Southern Africa, between South Africa and Zambia


Geographic coordinates:

20 00 S, 30 00 E


Map references:

Africa


Area:

total: 390,580 sq km
land: 386,670 sq km
water: 3,910 sq km


Area - comparative:

slightly larger than Montana


Land boundaries:

total: 3,066 km
border countries: Botswana 813 km, Mozambique 1,231 km, South Africa
225 km, Zambia 797 km


Coastline:

0 km (landlocked)


Maritime claims:

none (landlocked)


Climate:

tropical; moderated by altitude; rainy season (November to March)


Terrain:

mostly high plateau with higher central plateau (high veld);
mountains in east


Elevation extremes:

lowest point: junction of the Runde and Save rivers 162 m
highest point: Inyangani 2,592 m


Natural resources:

coal, chromium ore, asbestos, gold, nickel, copper, iron ore,
vanadium, lithium, tin, platinum group metals


Land use:

arable land: 8.24%
permanent crops: 0.33%
other: 91.43% (2005)


Irrigated land:

1,740 sq km (2003)


Total renewable water resources:

20 cu km (1987)


Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):

total: 4.21 cu km/yr (14%/7%/79%)
per capita: 324 cu m/yr (2002)


Natural hazards:

recurring droughts; floods and severe storms are rare


Environment - current issues:

deforestation; soil erosion; land degradation; air and water
pollution; the black rhinoceros herd - once the largest
concentration of the species in the world - has been significantly
reduced by poaching; poor mining practices have led to toxic waste
and heavy metal pollution


Environment - international agreements:

party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered
Species, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection
signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements


Geography - note:

landlocked; the Zambezi forms a natural riverine boundary with
Zambia; in full flood (February-April) the massive Victoria Falls on
the river forms the world's largest curtain of falling water


People
Zimbabwe



Population:

11,350,111
note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2008 est.)


Age structure:

0-14 years: 43.9% (male 2,514,135/female 2,465,715)
15-64 years: 52.3% (male 2,671,164/female 3,260,457)
65 years and over: 3.9% (male 194,854/female 243,786) (2008 est.)


Median age:

total: 17.6 years
male: 16.4 years
female: 18.8 years (2008 est.)


Population growth rate:

-0.787% (2008 est.)


Birth rate:

31.62 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Death rate:

17.29 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)


Net migration rate:

NA
note: there is an increasing flow of Zimbabweans into South Africa
and Botswana in search of better economic opportunities (2008 est.)


Sex ratio:

at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
15-64 years: 0.82 male(s)/female
65 years and over: 0.8 male(s)/female
total population: 0.9 male(s)/female (2008 est.)


Infant mortality rate:

total: 33.86 deaths/1,000 live births
male: 36.5 deaths/1,000 live births
female: 31.14 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)


Life expectancy at birth:

total population: 44.28 years
male: 45.08 years
female: 43.46 years (2008 est.)


Total fertility rate:

3.72 children born/woman (2008 est.)


HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate:

24.6% (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS:

1.8 million (2001 est.)


HIV/AIDS - deaths:

170,000 (2003 est.)


Major infectious diseases:

degree of risk: high
food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
vectorborne disease: malaria
water contact disease: schistosomiasis
animal contact disease: rabies (2008)


Nationality:

noun: Zimbabwean(s)
adjective: Zimbabwean


Ethnic groups:

African 98% (Shona 82%, Ndebele 14%, other 2%), mixed and Asian 1%,
white less than 1%


Religions:

syncretic (part Christian, part indigenous beliefs) 50%, Christian
25%, indigenous beliefs 24%, Muslim and other 1%


Languages:

English (official), Shona, Sindebele (the language of the Ndebele,
sometimes called Ndebele), numerous but minor tribal dialects


Literacy:

definition: age 15 and over can read and write English
total population: 90.7%
male: 94.2%
female: 87.2% (2003 est.)


School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education):

total: 9 years
male: 9 years
female: 9 years (2003)


Education expenditures:

4.6% of GDP (2000)


Government
Zimbabwe



Country name:

conventional long form: Republic of Zimbabwe
conventional short form: Zimbabwe
former: Southern Rhodesia, Rhodesia


Government type:

parliamentary democracy


Capital:

name: Harare
geographic coordinates: 17 50 S, 31 03 E
time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
Standard Time)


Administrative divisions:

8 provinces and 2 cities* with provincial status; Bulawayo*,
Harare*, Manicaland, Mashonaland Central, Mashonaland East,
Mashonaland West, Masvingo, Matabeleland North, Matabeleland South,
Midlands


Independence:

18 April 1980 (from UK)


National holiday:

Independence Day, 18 April (1980)


Constitution:

21 December 1979


Legal system:

mixture of Roman-Dutch and English common law; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction


Suffrage:

18 years of age; universal


Executive branch:

chief of state: Executive President Robert Gabriel MUGABE (since 31
December 1987); Vice President Joseph MSIKA (since December 1999)
and Vice President Joyce MUJURU (since 6 December 2004); note - the
president is both the chief of state and head of government
head of government: Executive President Robert Gabriel MUGABE (since
31 December 1987); Vice President Joseph MSIKA (since December 1999)
and Vice President Joyce MUJURU (since 6 December 2004)
cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president; responsible to the
House of Assembly
elections: presidential candidates nominated with a nomination paper
signed by at least 10 registered voters (at least one from each
province) and elected by popular vote for a five-year term (no term
limits); elections last held 28 March 2008 followed by a run-off on
27 June 2008 (next to be held in 2013); co-vice presidents appointed
by the president
election results: Robert Gabriel MUGABE reelected president; percent
of vote - Robert Gabriel MUGABE 85.5%, Morgan TSVANGIRAI 9.3%, other
5.2%; note - first round voting results - Morgan TSVANGIRAI 47.9%,
Robert Gabriel MUGABE 43.2%, Simba MAKONI 8.3%, other 0.6%;
first-round round polls were deemed to be flawed suppressing
TSVANGIRAI's results; the 27 June 2008 run-off between MUGABE and
TSVANGIRAI were severely flawed and internationally condemned


Legislative branch:

bicameral Parliament consists of a Senate (93 seats - 60 elected by
popular vote for a five-year term, 10 provincial governors nominated
by the president, 16 traditional chiefs elected by the Council of
Chiefs, 2 held by the president and deputy president of the Council
of Chiefs, and 5 appointed by the president) and a House of Assembly
(210 seats - all elected by popular vote for five-year terms)
elections: last held 28 March 2008 (next to be held in 2013)
election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - MDC 51.6%,
ZANU-PF 45.8%, other 2.6%; seats by party - MDC 30, ZANU-PF 30;
House of Assembly - percent of vote by party - MDC 51.3%, ZANU-PF
45.8%, other 2.9%; seats by party - MDC 109, ZANU-PF 97, other 4


Judicial branch:

Supreme Court; High Court


Political parties and leaders:

African National Party or ANP [Egypt DZINEMUNHENZVA]; Movement for
Democratic Change or MDC [Morgan TSVANGIRAI, anti-Senate faction;
Arthur MUTAMBARA, pro-Senate faction]; Peace Action is Freedom for
All or PAFA; United Parties [Abel MUZOREWA]; United People's Party
or UPP [Daniel SHUMBA]; Zimbabwe African National Union-Ndonga or
ZANU-Ndonga [Wilson KUMBULA]; Zimbabwe African National
Union-Patriotic Front or ZANU-PF [Robert Gabriel MUGABE]; Zimbabwe
African Peoples Union or ZAPU [Agrippa MADLELA]; Zimbabwe Youth in
Alliance or ZIYA


Political pressure groups and leaders:

Crisis in Zimbabwe Coalition [Xolani ZITHA]; National Constitutional
Assembly or NCA [Lovemore MADHUKU]; Women of Zimbabwe Arise or WOZA
[Jenny WILLIAMS]; Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Unions or ZCTU
[Wellington CHIBEBE]


International organization participation:

ACP, AfDB, AU, COMESA, FAO, G-15, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt
(signatory), ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol,
IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OPCW, PCA, SADC, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO,
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO


Diplomatic representation in the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador Marina Annette VALERE
chancery: 1608 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009
telephone: [1] (202) 332-7100
FAX: [1] (202) 483-9326


Diplomatic representation from the US:

chief of mission: Ambassador James D. MCGEE
embassy: 172 Herbert Chitepo Avenue, Harare
mailing address: P. O. Box 3340, Harare
telephone: [263] (4) 250-593 and 250-594
FAX: [263] (4) 796-488, or 722-618


Flag description:

seven equal horizontal bands of green, yellow, red, black, red,
yellow, and green with a white isosceles triangle edged in black
with its base on the hoist side; a yellow Zimbabwe bird representing
the long history of the country is superimposed on a red
five-pointed star in the center of the triangle, which symbolizes
peace; green symbolizes agriculture, yellow - mineral wealth, red -
blood shed to achieve independence, and black stands for the native
people


Economy
Zimbabwe



Economy - overview:

The government of Zimbabwe faces a wide variety of difficult
economic problems as it struggles with an unsustainable fiscal
deficit, an overvalued official exchange rate, hyperinflation, and
bare store shelves. Its 1998-2002 involvement in the war in the
Democratic Republic of the Congo drained hundreds of millions of
dollars from the economy. The government's land reform program,
characterized by chaos and violence, has badly damaged the
commercial farming sector, the traditional source of exports and
foreign exchange and the provider of 400,000 jobs, turning Zimbabwe
into a net importer of food products. The EU and the US provide food
aid on humanitarian grounds. Badly needed support from the IMF has
been suspended because of the government's arrears on past loans and
the government's unwillingness to enact reforms that would stabilize
the economy. The Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe routinely prints money to
fund the budget deficit, causing the official annual inflation rate
to rise from 32% in 1998, to 133% in 2004, 585% in 2005, passed
1000% in 2006, and 26000% in November 2007. Private sector estimates
of inflation in 2007 are well above 100,000%. Meanwhile, the
official exchange rate fell from approximately 1 (revalued)
Zimbabwean dollar per US dollar in 2003 to 30,000 per US dollar in
2007.


GDP (purchasing power parity):

$2.342 billion (2007 est.)


GDP (official exchange rate):

$641 million
note: hyperinflation and the plunging value of the Zimbabwean dollar
makes Zimbabwe's GDP at the official exchange rate a highly
inaccurate statistic (2007 est.)


GDP - real growth rate:

-5.5% (2007 est.)


GDP - per capita (PPP):

$200 (2007 est.)


GDP - composition by sector:

agriculture: 18.1%
industry: 22.6%
services: 59.3% (2007 est.)


Labor force:

4.032 million (2007 est.)


Labor force - by occupation:

agriculture: 66%
industry: 10%
services: 24% (1996)


Unemployment rate:

80% (2005 est.)


Population below poverty line:

68% (2004)


Household income or consumption by percentage share:

lowest 10%: 2%
highest 10%: 40.4% (1995)


Distribution of family income - Gini index:

50.1 (2006)


Investment (gross fixed):

16.7% of GDP (2007 est.)


Budget:

revenues: $2.442 billion
expenditures: $3.017 billion (2007 est.)


Fiscal year:

calendar year


Public debt:

218.2% of GDP (2007 est.)


Inflation rate (consumer prices):

12,563% official data; private sector estimates are much higher
(2007 est.)


Central bank discount rate:

975% (31 December 2007)


Commercial bank prime lending rate:

578.96% (31 December 2007)


Stock of money:

$14.18 billion
note: This number reflects the vastly overvalued official exchange
rate of 30,000 Zimbabwe dollars per US dollar. At an unofficial rate
of 800,000 Zimbabwe dollars per US dollar, the stock of Zimbabwe
dollars would equal only about US$500 million and Zimbabwe's
velocity of money (the number of times money turns over in the
course of a year) would be nine, in line with the velocity of money
for other countries in the region. (31 December 2007)


Stock of quasi money:

$5.349 billion (31 December 2007)


Stock of domestic credit:

$24.91 billion (31 December 2007)


Agriculture - products:

corn, cotton, tobacco, wheat, coffee, sugarcane, peanuts; sheep,
goats, pigs


Industries:

mining (coal, gold, platinum, copper, nickel, tin, clay, numerous
metallic and nonmetallic ores), steel; wood products, cement,
chemicals, fertilizer, clothing and footwear, foodstuffs, beverages


Industrial production growth rate:

-5% (2007 est.)


Electricity - production:

9.467 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - consumption:

11.59 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - exports:

34 million kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - imports:

2.867 billion kWh (2006 est.)


Electricity - production by source:

fossil fuel: 47%
hydro: 53%
nuclear: 0%
other: 0% (2001)


Oil - production:

0 bbl/day (2007 est.)


Oil - consumption:

14,590 bbl/day (2006 est.)


Oil - exports:

0 bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - imports:

15,800 bbl/day (2005 est.)


Oil - proved reserves:

0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)


Natural gas - production:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - consumption:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - exports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - imports:

0 cu m (2007 est.)


Natural gas - proved reserves:

0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)


Current account balance:

-$649 million (2007 est.)


Exports:

$1.52 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Exports - commodities:

platinum, cotton, tobacco, gold, ferroalloys, textiles/clothing


Exports - partners:

South Africa 33.8%, Democratic Republic of the Congo 8.3%, Japan
8.1%, Botswana 7.4%, Netherlands 5.2%, China 5.2%, Italy 4.1%,
Zambia 4.1% (2007)


Imports:

$2.183 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)


Imports - commodities:

machinery and transport equipment, other manufactures, chemicals,
fuels


Imports - partners:

South Africa 50.7%, China 8.4%, US 4.5%, Botswana 4.3% (2007)


Economic aid - recipient:

$367.7 million (2005 est.)


Reserves of foreign exchange and gold:

$120 million (31 December 2007 est.)


Debt - external:

$5.155 billion (31 December 2007 est.)


Stock of direct foreign investment - at home:

$NA


Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad:

$NA


Market value of publicly traded shares:

$26.56 billion (2006)


Currency (code):

Zimbabwean dollar (ZWD)


Currency code:

ZWD


Exchange rates:

Zimbabwean dollars (ZWD) per US dollar - 30,000 (2007), 162.07
(2006), 77.965 (2005), 5.729 (2004), 0.824 (2003)
note: these are official exchange rates; non-official rates vary
significantly


Communications
Zimbabwe



Telephones - main lines in use:

344,500 (2007)


Telephones - mobile cellular:

1.226 million (2007)


Telephone system:

general assessment: system was once one of the best in Africa, but
now suffers from poor maintenance; more than 100,000 outstanding
requests for connection despite an equally large number of installed
but unused main lines
domestic: consists of microwave radio relay links, open-wire lines,
radiotelephone communication stations, fixed wireless local loop
installations, and a substantial mobile-cellular network; Internet
connection is available in Harare and planned for all major towns
and for some of the smaller ones
international: country code - 263; satellite earth stations - 2
Intelsat; 2 international digital gateway exchanges (in Harare and
Gweru)


Radio broadcast stations:

AM 7, FM 20 (plus 17 repeater stations), shortwave 1 (1998)


Radios:

1.14 million (1997)


Television broadcast stations:

16 (1997)


Televisions:

370,000 (1997)


Internet country code:

.zw


Internet hosts:

19,157 (2008)


Internet Service Providers (ISPs):

6 (2000)


Internet users:

1.351 million (2007)


Transportation
Zimbabwe



Airports:

341 (2007)


Airports - with paved runways:

total: 19
over 3,047 m: 3
2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
914 to 1,523 m: 10 (2007)


Airports - with unpaved runways:

total: 322
1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
914 to 1,523 m: 152
under 914 m: 166 (2007)


Pipelines:

refined products 270 km (2007)


Railways:

total: 3,077 km
narrow gauge: 3,077 km 1.067-m gauge (313 km electrified) (2006)


Roadways:

total: 97,267 km
paved: 18,481 km
unpaved: 78,786 km (2002)


Waterways:

on Lake Kariba (2005)


Ports and terminals:

Binga, Kariba


Military
Zimbabwe



Military branches:

Zimbabwe Defense Forces (ZDF): Zimbabwe National Army (ZNA), Air
Force of Zimbabwe (AFZ), Zimbabwe Republic Police (2008)


Military service age and obligation:

18-24 years of age for compulsory military service; women are
eligible to serve (2007)


Manpower available for military service:

males age 16-49: 3,264,258
females age 16-49: 3,048,049 (2008 est.)


Manpower fit for military service:

males age 16-49: 1,643,036
females age 16-49: 1,404,663 (2008 est.)


Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually:

male: 144,601
female: 147,627 (2008 est.)


Military expenditures:

3.8% of GDP (2006)


Transnational Issues
Zimbabwe



Disputes - international:

Botswana built electric fences and South Africa has placed military
along the border to stem the flow of thousands of Zimbabweans
fleeing to find work and escape political persecution; Namibia has
supported, and in 2004 Zimbabwe dropped objections to, plans between
Botswana and Zambia to build a bridge over the Zambezi River,
thereby de facto recognizing a short, but not clearly delimited,
Botswana-Zambia boundary in the river


Refugees and internally displaced persons:

refugees (country of origin): 2,500 (Democratic Republic of Congo)
IDPs: 569,685 (MUGABE-led political violence, human rights
violations, land reform, and economic collapse) (2007)


Trafficking in persons:

current situation: Zimbabwe is a source, transit, and destination
country for men, women, and children trafficked for the purposes of
forced labor and sexual exploitation; large scale migration of
Zimbabweans to surrounding countries - as they flee a progressively
more desperate situation at home - has increased; rural Zimbabwean
men, women, and children are trafficked internally to farms for
agricultural labor and domestic servitude and to cities for domestic
labor and commercial sexual exploitation; young men and boys are
trafficked to South Africa for farm work, often laboring for months
in South Africa without pay before "employers" have them arrested
and deported as illegal immigrants; young women and girls are lured
abroad with false employment offers that result in involuntary
domestic servitude or commercial sexual exploitation; men, women,
and children from neighboring states are trafficked through Zimbabwe
en route to South Africa
tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Zimbabwe is on the Tier 2 Watch
List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to
combat severe forms of human trafficking, and because the absolute
number of victims of severe forms of trafficking is significantly
increasing; the trafficking situation in the country is worsening as
more of the population is made vulnerable by declining
socio-economic conditions (2008)


Illicit drugs:

transit point for cannabis and South Asian heroin, mandrax, and
methamphetamines en route to South Africa



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008





======================================================================




@2001  GDP (purchasing power parity)


Afghanistan
  $35 billion (2007 est.)

Albania
  $20.87 billion
  note: Albania has a large gray economy that may be as large as 50%
  of official GDP (2007 est.)

Algeria
  $222.3 billion (2007 est.)

American Samoa
  $510.1 million (2003 est.)

Andorra
  $2.77 billion (2005)

Angola
  $95.46 billion (2007 est.)

Anguilla
  $108.9 million (2004 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  $1.526 billion (2007 est.)

Argentina
  $526.4 billion (2007 est.)

Armenia
  $17.17 billion (2007 est.)

Aruba
  $2.258 billion (2005 est.)

Australia
  $773 billion (2007 est.)

Austria
  $322 billion (2007 est.)

Azerbaijan
  $64.66 billion (2007 est.)

Bahamas, The
  $8.553 billion (2007 est.)

Bahrain
  $24.01 billion (2007 est.)

Bangladesh
  $208.3 billion (2007 est.)

Barbados
  $5.31 billion (2007 est.)

Belarus
  $103.5 billion (2007 est.)

Belgium
  $376.5 billion (2007 est.)

Belize
  $2.444 billion (2007 est.)

Benin
  $12 billion (2007 est.)

Bermuda
  $4.5 billion (2004 est.)

Bhutan
  $3.359 billion (2007 est.)

Bolivia
  $39.75 billion (2007 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  $27.7 billion
  note: Bosnia has a large informal sector that could also be as much
  as 50% of official GDP (2007 est.)

Botswana
  $26.04 billion (2007 est.)

Brazil
  $1.849 trillion (2007 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  $853.4 million (2004 est.)

Brunei
  $19.64 billion (2007 est.)

Bulgaria
  $86.71 billion (2007 est.)

Burkina Faso
  $17.41 billion (2007 est.)

Burma
  $91.13 billion (2007 est.)

Burundi
  $2.907 billion (2007 est.)

Cambodia
  $26.19 billion (2007 est.)

Cameroon
  $40.24 billion (2007 est.)

Canada
  $1.271 trillion (2007 est.)

Cape Verde
  $1.603 billion (2007 est.)

Cayman Islands
  $1.939 billion (2004 est.)

Central African Republic
  $3.007 billion (2007 est.)

Chad
  $15.26 billion (2007 est.)

Chile
  $232.8 billion (2007 est.)

China
  $7.099 trillion (2007 est.)

Christmas Island
  $NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  $NA

Colombia
  $327.7 billion (2007 est.)

Comoros
  $1.262 billion (2007 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  $19.03 billion (2007 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  $12.86 billion (2007 est.)

Cook Islands
  $183.2 million (2005 est.)

Costa Rica
  $45.77 billion (2007 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  $32.85 billion (2007 est.)

Croatia
  $69.59 billion (2007 est.)

Cuba
  $125.5 billion (2007 est.)

Cyprus
  $21.4 billion (2007 est.)

Czech Republic
  $251 billion (2007 est.)

Denmark
  $203.3 billion (2007 est.)

Djibouti
  $1.738 billion (2007 est.)

Dominica
  $648 million (2007 est.)

Dominican Republic
  $61.67 billion (2007 est.)

Ecuador
  $98.71 billion (2007 est.)

Egypt
  $405.4 billion (2007 est.)

El Salvador
  $41.63 billion (2007 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  $15.54 billion (2007 est.)

Eritrea
  $3.619 billion (2007 est.)

Estonia
  $28.69 billion (2007 est.)

Ethiopia
  $56.05 billion (2007 est.)

European Union
  $14.43 trillion (2007 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  $75 million (2002 est.)

Faroe Islands
  $1 billion (2001 est.)

Fiji
  $5.079 billion (2007 est.)

Finland
  $188.4 billion (2007 est.)

France
  $2.075 trillion (2007 est.)

French Polynesia
  $4.58 billion (2003 est.)

Gabon
  $20.44 billion (2007 est.)

Gambia, The
  $2.061 billion (2007 est.)

Gaza Strip
  $5.034 billion (includes West Bank) (2006 est.)

Georgia
  $20.6 billion (2007 est.)

Germany
  $2.807 trillion (2007 est.)

Ghana
  $31.13 billion (2007 est.)

Gibraltar
  $1.066 billion (2005 est.)

Greece
  $327.6 billion (2007 est.)

Greenland
  $1.1 billion (2001 est.)

Grenada
  $1.108 billion (2007 est.)

Guam
  $2.5 billion (2005 est.)

Guatemala
  $64.76 billion (2007 est.)

Guernsey
  $2.742 billion (2005)

Guinea
  $10.96 billion (2007 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  $826.4 million (2007 est.)

Guyana
  $2.819 billion (2007 est.)

Haiti
  $11.38 billion (2007 est.)

Holy See (Vatican City)
  $NA

Honduras
  $32.26 billion (2007 est.)

Hong Kong
  $293.3 billion (2007 est.)

Hungary
  $191.7 billion (2007 est.)

Iceland
  $12.19 billion (2007 est.)

India
  $2.966 trillion (2007 est.)

Indonesia
  $843.7 billion (2007 est.)

Iran
  $762.9 billion (2007 est.)

Iraq
  $102.4 billion (2007 est.)

Ireland
  $191.6 billion (2007 est.)

Isle of Man
  $2.719 billion (2005 est.)

Israel
  $185.8 billion (2007 est.)

Italy
  $1.8 trillion (2007 est.)

Jamaica
  $20.48 billion (2007 est.)

Japan
  $4.272 trillion (2007 est.)

Jersey
  $5.1 billion (2005 est.)

Jordan
  $28.45 billion (2007 est.)

Kazakhstan
  $168.2 billion (2007 est.)

Kenya
  $61.22 billion (2007 est.)

Kiribati
  $348 million (2007 est.)

Korea, North
  $40 billion
  note: North Korea does not publish any reliable National Income
  Accounts data; the datum shown here is derived from purchasing power
  parity (PPP) GDP estimates for North Korea that were made by Angus
  MADDISON in a study conducted for the OECD; his figure for 1999 was
  extrapolated to 2007 using estimated real growth rates for North
  Korea's GDP and an inflation factor based on the US GDP deflator;
  the result was rounded to the nearest $10 billion (2007 est.)

Korea, South
  $1.206 trillion (2007 est.)

Kosovo
  $4 billion (2007 est.)

Kuwait
  $140 billion (2007 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  $10.55 billion (2007 est.)

Laos
  $12.8 billion (2007 est.)

Latvia
  $40.05 billion (2007 est.)

Lebanon
  $40.44 billion (2007 est.)

Lesotho
  $3.063 billion (2007 est.)

Liberia
  $1.525 billion (2007 est.)

Libya
  $74.72 billion (2007 est.)

Liechtenstein
  $1.786 billion (2001 est.)

Lithuania
  $59.98 billion (2007 est.)

Luxembourg
  $38.14 billion (2007 est.)

Macau
  $12.5 billion (2006)

Macedonia
  $17.35 billion
  note: Macedonia has a large informal sector (2007 est.)

Madagascar
  $18.44 billion (2007 est.)

Malawi
  $10.59 billion (2007 est.)

Malaysia
  $361.2 billion (2007 est.)

Maldives
  $1.588 billion (2007 est.)

Mali
  $13.63 billion (2007 est.)

Malta
  $9.4 billion (2007 est.)

Marshall Islands
  $115 million (2001 est.)

Mauritania
  $5.974 billion (2007 est.)

Mauritius
  $14.27 billion (2007 est.)

Mayotte
  $953.6 million (2005 est.)

Mexico
  $1.353 trillion (2007 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  $277 million; note - supplemented by
  grant aid, averaging perhaps $100 million annually (2002 est.)

Moldova
  $9.756 billion (2007 est.)

Monaco
  $976.3 million
  note: Monaco does not publish national income figures; the estimates
  are extremely rough (2006 est.)

Mongolia
  $8.542 billion (2007 est.)

Montenegro
  $5.918 billion (2007 est.)

Montserrat
  $29 million (2002 est.)

Morocco
  $125 billion (2007 est.)

Mozambique
  $17.64 billion (2007 est.)

Namibia
  $10.69 billion (2007 est.)

Nauru
  $60 million (2005 est.)

Nepal
  $29.29 billion (2007 est.)

Netherlands
  $645.5 billion (2007 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  $2.8 billion (2004 est.)

New Caledonia
  $3.158 billion (2003 est.)

New Zealand
  $112.4 billion (2007 est.)

Nicaragua
  $16.17 billion (2007 est.)

Niger
  $8.859 billion (2007 est.)

Nigeria
  $296.1 billion (2007 est.)

Niue
  $7.6 million (2000 est.)

Norfolk Island
  $NA

Northern Mariana Islands
  $900 million
  note: GDP estimate includes US subsidy (2000 est.)

Norway
  $246.6 billion (2007 est.)

Oman
  $60.89 billion (2007 est.)

Pakistan
  $411.9 billion (2007 est.)

Palau
  $124.5 million
  note: GDP estimates includes US subsidy (2004 est.)

Panama
  $34.81 billion (2007 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  $12.05 billion (2007 est.)

Paraguay
  $26.7 billion (2007 est.)

Peru
  $219.6 billion (2007 est.)

Philippines
  $300.1 billion (2007 est.)

Pitcairn Islands
  $NA

Poland
  $623.1 billion (2007 est.)

Portugal
  $232.3 billion (2007 est.)

Puerto Rico
  $72.61 billion (2007 est.)

Qatar
  $71.42 billion (2007 est.)

Romania
  $247.1 billion (2007 est.)

Russia
  $2.097 trillion (2007 est.)

Rwanda
  $8.057 billion (2007 est.)

Saint Helena
  $18 million (1998 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  $721 million (2007 est.)

Saint Lucia
  $1.794 billion (2007 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  $48.3 million
  note: supplemented by annual payments from France of about $60
  million (2003 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  $1.042 billion (2007 est.)

Samoa
  $1.029 billion (2007 est.)

San Marino
  $850 million (2004 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe
  $256 million (2007 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  $546 billion (2007 est.)

Senegal
  $21.02 billion (2007 est.)

Serbia
  $77.28 billion (2007 est.)

Seychelles
  $1.378 billion (2007 est.)

Sierra Leone
  $3.991 billion (2007 est.)

Singapore
  $227.1 billion (2007 est.)

Slovakia
  $110.2 billion (2007 est.)

Slovenia
  $56.19 billion (2007 est.)

Solomon Islands
  $948 million (2007 est.)

Somalia
  $5.387 billion (2007 est.)

South Africa
  $467.8 billion (2007 est.)

Spain
  $1.361 trillion (2007 est.)

Sri Lanka
  $82.02 billion (2007 est.)

Sudan
  $80.98 billion (2007 est.)

Suriname
  $3.846 billion (2007 est.)

Svalbard
  $NA

Swaziland
  $5.364 billion (2007 est.)

Sweden
  $338.5 billion (2007 est.)

Switzerland
  $303.2 billion (2007 est.)

Syria
  $90.37 billion (2007 est.)

Taiwan
  $698.6 billion (2007 est.)

Tajikistan
  $11.96 billion (2007 est.)

Tanzania
  $51.07 billion (2007 est.)

Thailand
  $521.5 billion (2007 est.)

Timor-Leste
  $2.608 billion (2007 est.)

Togo
  $5.042 billion (2007 est.)

Tokelau
  $1.5 million (1993 est.)

Tonga
  $526 million (2007 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  $26.79 billion (2007 est.)

Tunisia
  $76.07 billion (2007 est.)

Turkey
  $853.9 billion (2007 est.)

Turkmenistan
  $26.92 billion (2007 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  $216 million (2002 est.)

Tuvalu
  $14.94 million (2002 est.)

Uganda
  $29.13 billion (2007 est.)

Ukraine
  $324.8 billion (2007 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  $164.4 billion (2007 est.)

United Kingdom
  $2.13 trillion (2007 est.)

United States
  $13.78 trillion (2007 est.)

Uruguay
  $37.5 billion (2007 est.)

Uzbekistan
  $64.4 billion (2007 est.)

Vanuatu
  $897 million (2007 est.)

Venezuela
  $334.3 billion (2007 est.)

Vietnam
  $221.1 billion (2007 est.)

Virgin Islands
  $1.577 billion (2004 est.)

Wallis and Futuna
  $60 million (2004 est.)

West Bank
  $5.034 billion (includes Gaza Strip) (2006 est.)

Western Sahara
  $NA

World
  GWP (gross world product): $65.61 trillion (2007 est.)

Yemen
  $56.24 billion (2007 est.)

Zambia
  $16.1 billion (2007 est.)

Zimbabwe
  $2.342 billion (2007 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2002  Population growth rate (%)


Afghanistan
  2.626% (2008 est.)

Albania
  0.538% (2008 est.)

Algeria
  1.209% (2008 est.)

American Samoa
  1.236% (2008 est.)

Andorra
  1.899% (2008 est.)

Angola
  2.136% (2008 est.)

Anguilla
  2.332% (2008 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  1.305% (2008 est.)

Argentina
  1.068% (2008 est.)

Armenia
  -0.077% (2008 est.)

Aruba
  1.501% (2008 est.)

Australia
  1.221% (2008 est.)

Austria
  0.064% (2008 est.)

Azerbaijan
  0.723% (2008 est.)

Bahamas, The
  0.57% (2008 est.)

Bahrain
  1.337% (2008 est.)

Bangladesh
  2.022% (2008 est.)

Barbados
  0.36% (2008 est.)

Belarus
  -0.393% (2008 est.)

Belgium
  0.106% (2008 est.)

Belize
  2.207% (2008 est.)

Benin
  3.01% (2008 est.)

Bermuda
  0.546% (2008 est.)

Bhutan
  1.301% (2008 est.)

Bolivia
  1.383% (2008 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  0.666% (2008 est.)

Botswana
  1.434% (2008 est.)

Brazil
  1.228% (2008 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  1.88% (2008 est.)

Brunei
  1.785% (2008 est.)

Bulgaria
  -0.813% (2008 est.)

Burkina Faso
  3.109% (2008 est.)

Burma
  0.8% (2008 est.)

Burundi
  3.443% (2008 est.)

Cambodia
  1.752% (2008 est.)

Cameroon
  2.218% (2008 est.)

Canada
  0.83% (2008 est.)

Cape Verde
  0.595% (2008 est.)

Cayman Islands
  2.449% (2008 est.)

Central African Republic
  1.509% (2008 est.)

Chad
  2.195% (2008 est.)

Chile
  0.905% (2008 est.)

China
  0.629% (2008 est.)

Christmas Island
  0% (2008 est.)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  0% (2008 est.)

Colombia
  1.405% (2008 est.)

Comoros
  2.803% (2008 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  3.236% (2008 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  2.696% (2008 est.)

Cook Islands
  NA (2008 est.)

Costa Rica
  1.388% (2008 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  2.156% (2008 est.)

Croatia
  -0.043% (2008 est.)

Cuba
  0.251% (2008 est.)

Cyprus
  0.522% (2008 est.)

Czech Republic
  -0.082% (2008 est.)

Denmark
  0.295% (2008 est.)

Djibouti
  1.945% (2008 est.)

Dominica
  0.196% (2008 est.)

Dominican Republic
  1.495% (2008 est.)

Ecuador
  0.935% (2008 est.)

Egypt
  1.682% (2008 est.)

El Salvador
  1.679% (2008 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  2.732% (2008 est.)

Eritrea
  2.631% (2008 est.)

Estonia
  -0.632% (2008 est.)

Ethiopia
  3.212% (2008 est.)

European Union
  0.11% (2008 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  0.011% (2008 est.)

Faroe Islands
  0.376% (2008 est.)

Fiji
  1.388% (2008 est.)

Finland
  0.112% (2008 est.)

France
  0.574% (2008 est.)

French Polynesia
  1.425% (2008 est.)

Gabon
  1.954% (2008 est.)

Gambia, The
  2.724% (2008 est.)

Gaza Strip
  3.422% (2008 est.)

Georgia
  -0.325% (2008 est.)

Germany
  -0.044% (2008 est.)

Ghana
  1.928% (2008 est.)

Gibraltar
  0.125% (2008 est.)

Greece
  0.146% (2008 est.)

Greenland
  0.064% (2008 est.)

Grenada
  0.406% (2008 est.)

Guam
  1.373% (2008 est.)

Guatemala
  2.11% (2008 est.)

Guernsey
  0.228% (2008 est.)

Guinea
  2.492% (2008 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  2.035% (2008 est.)

Guyana
  0.211% (2008 est.)

Haiti
  2.493% (2008 est.)

Holy See (Vatican City)
  0.003% (2008 est.)

Honduras
  2.024% (2008 est.)

Hong Kong
  0.532% (2008 est.)

Hungary
  -0.254% (2008 est.)

Iceland
  0.783% (2008 est.)

India
  1.578% (2008 est.)

Indonesia
  1.175% (2008 est.)

Iran
  0.792% (2008 est.)

Iraq
  2.562% (2008 est.)

Ireland
  1.133% (2008 est.)

Isle of Man
  0.509% (2008 est.)

Israel
  1.713% (2008 est.)

Italy
  -0.019% (2008 est.)

Jamaica
  0.779% (2008 est.)

Japan
  -0.139% (2008 est.)

Jersey
  0.221% (2008 est.)

Jordan
  2.338% (2008 est.)

Kazakhstan
  0.374% (2008 est.)

Kenya
  2.758% (2008 est.)

Kiribati
  2.235% (2008 est.)

Korea, North
  0.732% (2008 est.)

Korea, South
  0.269% (2008 est.)

Kuwait
  3.591%
  note: this rate reflects a return to pre-Gulf crisis immigration of
  expatriates (2008 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  1.38% (2008 est.)

Laos
  2.344% (2008 est.)

Latvia
  -0.629% (2008 est.)

Lebanon
  1.154% (2008 est.)

Lesotho
  0.129% (2008 est.)

Liberia
  3.661% (2008 est.)

Libya
  2.216% (2008 est.)

Liechtenstein
  0.713% (2008 est.)

Lithuania
  -0.284% (2008 est.)

Luxembourg
  1.188% (2008 est.)

Macau
  3.148% (2008 est.)

Macedonia
  0.262% (2008 est.)

Madagascar
  3.005% (2008 est.)

Malawi
  2.39% (2008 est.)

Malaysia
  1.742% (2008 est.)

Maldives
  5.566% (2008 est.)

Mali
  2.725% (2008 est.)

Malta
  0.407% (2008 est.)

Marshall Islands
  2.142% (2008 est.)

Mauritania
  2.852% (2008 est.)

Mauritius
  0.8% (2008 est.)

Mayotte
  3.465% (2008 est.)

Mexico
  1.142% (2008 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  -0.191% (2008 est.)

Moldova
  -0.092% (2008 est.)

Monaco
  0.375% (2008 est.)

Mongolia
  1.493% (2008 est.)

Montenegro
  -0.925% (2008 est.)

Montserrat
  0.315% (2008 est.)

Morocco
  1.505% (2008 est.)

Mozambique
  1.792% (2008 est.)

Namibia
  0.947% (2008 est.)

Nauru
  1.772% (2008 est.)

Nepal
  2.095% (2008 est.)

Netherlands
  0.436% (2008 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  0.754% (2008 est.)

New Caledonia
  1.175% (2008 est.)

New Zealand
  0.971% (2008 est.)

Nicaragua
  1.825% (2008 est.)

Niger
  2.878% (2008 est.)

Nigeria
  2.025% (2008 est.)

Niue
  -0.032% (2008 est.)

Norfolk Island
  0.006% (2008 est.)

Northern Mariana Islands
  2.377% (2008 est.)

Norway
  0.35% (2008 est.)

Oman
  3.19% (2008 est.)

Pakistan
  1.999% (2008 est.)

Palau
  1.157% (2008 est.)

Panama
  1.544% (2008 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  2.118% (2008 est.)

Paraguay
  2.39% (2008 est.)

Peru
  1.264% (2008 est.)

Philippines
  1.991% (2008 est.)

Pitcairn Islands
  0% (2008 est.)

Poland
  -0.045% (2008 est.)

Portugal
  0.305% (2008 est.)

Puerto Rico
  0.369% (2008 est.)

Qatar
  1.093% (2008 est.)

Romania
  -0.136% (2008 est.)

Russia
  -0.474% (2008 est.)

Rwanda
  2.779% (2008 est.)

Saint Helena
  0.487% (2008 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  0.723% (2008 est.)

Saint Lucia
  0.436% (2008 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  0.114% (2008 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  0.231% (2008 est.)

Samoa
  1.322% (2008 est.)

San Marino
  1.181% (2008 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe
  3.116% (2008 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  1.954% (2008 est.)

Senegal
  2.58% (2008 est.)

Seychelles
  0.428% (2008 est.)

Sierra Leone
  2.282% (2008 est.)

Singapore
  1.135% (2008 est.)

Slovakia
  0.143% (2008 est.)

Slovenia
  -0.088% (2008 est.)

Solomon Islands
  2.467% (2008 est.)

Somalia
  2.824% (2008 est.)

South Africa
  0.828% (2008 est.)

Spain
  0.096% (2008 est.)

Sri Lanka
  0.943% (2008 est.)

Sudan
  2.134% (2008 est.)

Suriname
  1.099% (2008 est.)

Svalbard
  -0.023% (2008 est.)

Swaziland
  -0.41% (2008 est.)

Sweden
  0.157% (2008 est.)

Switzerland
  0.329% (2008 est.)

Syria
  2.189% (2008 est.)

Taiwan
  0.238% (2008 est.)

Tajikistan
  1.893% (2008 est.)

Tanzania
  2.072% (2008 est.)

Thailand
  0.64% (2008 est.)

Timor-Leste
  2.05% (2008 est.)

Togo
  2.717% (2008 est.)

Tokelau
  -0.011% (2008 est.)

Tonga
  1.669% (2008 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  -0.891% (2008 est.)

Tunisia
  0.989% (2008 est.)

Turkey
  1.013% (2008 est.)

Turkmenistan
  1.596% (2008 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  2.644% (2008 est.)

Tuvalu
  1.577% (2008 est.)

Uganda
  3.603% (2008 est.)

Ukraine
  -0.651% (2008 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  3.833% (2008 est.)

United Kingdom
  0.276% (2008 est.)

United States
  0.883% (2008 est.)

Uruguay
  0.486% (2008 est.)

Uzbekistan
  0.965% (2008 est.)

Vanuatu
  1.434% (2008 est.)

Venezuela
  1.498% (2008 est.)

Vietnam
  0.99% (2008 est.)

Virgin Islands
  0.002% (2008 est.)

Wallis and Futuna
  NA (2008 est.)

West Bank
  2.225% (2008 est.)

Western Sahara
  2.868% NA (2008 est.)

World
  1.188% (2008 est.)

Yemen
  3.46% (2008 est.)

Zambia
  1.654% (2008 est.)

Zimbabwe
  -0.787% (2008 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2003  GDP - real growth rate (%)


Afghanistan
  11.5% (2007 est.)

Albania
  6% (2007 est.)

Algeria
  4.5% (2007 est.)

American Samoa
  3% (2003 est.)

Andorra
  3.5% (2005 est.)

Angola
  16.7% (2007 est.)

Anguilla
  10.2% (2004 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  6.1% (2007 est.)

Argentina
  8.7% (2007 est.)

Armenia
  13.7% (2007 est.)

Aruba
  2.4% (2005 est.)

Australia
  4.3% (2007 est.)

Austria
  3.1% (2007 est.)

Azerbaijan
  23.4% (2007 est.)

Bahamas, The
  2.8% (2007 est.)

Bahrain
  6.7% (2007 est.)

Bangladesh
  6.3% (2007 est.)

Barbados
  4.3% (2007 est.)

Belarus
  8.2% (2007 est.)

Belgium
  2.8% (2007 est.)

Belize
  2.2% (2007 est.)

Benin
  4.5% (2007 est.)

Bermuda
  4.6% (2004 est.)

Bhutan
  22.4% (2007 est.)

Bolivia
  4.6% (2007 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  6% (2007 est.)

Botswana
  4.8% (2007 est.)

Brazil
  5.4% (2007 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  1% (2002 est.)

Brunei
  0.4% (2007 est.)

Bulgaria
  6.2% (2007 est.)

Burkina Faso
  4.2% (2007 est.)

Burma
  3.8% (2007 est.)

Burundi
  3.6% (2007 est.)

Cambodia
  10.1% (2007 est.)

Cameroon
  2.7% (2007 est.)

Canada
  2.7% (2007 est.)

Cape Verde
  6.9% (2007 est.)

Cayman Islands
  0.9% (2004 est.)

Central African Republic
  4% (2007 est.)

Chad
  1.3% (2007 est.)

Chile
  5.1% (2007 est.)

China
  11.9% (2007 est.)

Colombia
  8.2% (2007 est.)

Comoros
  -1% (2007 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  7% (2007 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  -1.6% (2007 est.)

Cook Islands
  0.1% (2005 est.)

Costa Rica
  6.8% (2007 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  1.6% (2007 est.)

Croatia
  5.7% (2007 est.)

Cuba
  6.5% (2007 est.)

Cyprus
  4.4% (2007 est.)

Czech Republic
  6.6% (2007 est.)

Denmark
  1.7% (2007 est.)

Djibouti
  5.2% (2007 est.)

Dominica
  0.9% (2007 est.)

Dominican Republic
  8.5% (2007 est.)

Ecuador
  2% (2007 est.)

Egypt
  7.1% (2007 est.)

El Salvador
  4.7% (2007 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  12.4% (2007 est.)

Eritrea
  1.3% (2007 est.)

Estonia
  7.1% (2007 est.)

Ethiopia
  11.1% (2007 est.)

European Union
  3% (2007 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  NA%

Faroe Islands
  2.4% (2005 est.)

Fiji
  -4.4% (2007 est.)

Finland
  4.5% (2007 est.)

France
  2.1% (2007 est.)

French Polynesia
  5.1% (2002)

Gabon
  6.2% (2007 est.)

Gambia, The
  7% (2007 est.)

Gaza Strip
  -8% (includes West Bank) (2006 est.)

Georgia
  12% (2007 est.)

Germany
  2.5% (2007 est.)

Ghana
  5.5% (2007 est.)

Gibraltar
  7% (2005 est.)

Greece
  4% (2007 est.)

Greenland
  2% (2005 est.)

Grenada
  3.1% (2007 est.)

Guam
  NA%

Guatemala
  5.7% (2007 est.)

Guernsey
  3% (2005 est.)

Guinea
  1.5% (2007 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  2.7% (2007 est.)

Guyana
  5.3% (2007 est.)

Haiti
  3.2% (2007 est.)

Honduras
  6.3% (2007 est.)

Hong Kong
  6.4% (2007 est.)

Hungary
  1.3% (2007 est.)

Iceland
  3.8% (2007 est.)

India
  9% (2007 est.)

Indonesia
  6.3% (2007 est.)

Iran
  6.2% (2007 est.)

Iraq
  5.9% (2007 est.)

Ireland
  6% (2007 est.)

Isle of Man
  5.2% (2005)

Israel
  5.3% (2007 est.)

Italy
  1.4% (2007 est.)

Jamaica
  1.2% (2007 est.)

Japan
  2% (2007 est.)

Jersey
  NA%

Jordan
  6% (2007 est.)

Kazakhstan
  8.5% (2007 est.)

Kenya
  7% (2007 est.)

Kiribati
  2% (2007 est.)

Korea, North
  -1.1% (2007 est.)

Korea, South
  5% (2007 est.)

Kosovo
  2.6% (2007 est.)

Kuwait
  4.7% (2007 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  8.2% (2007 est.)

Laos
  7.5% (2007 est.)

Latvia
  10.3% (2007 est.)

Lebanon
  3.6% (2007 est.)

Lesotho
  4.8% (2007 est.)

Liberia
  9.4% (2007 est.)

Libya
  5.8% (2007 est.)

Liechtenstein
  11% (1999 est.)

Lithuania
  8.8% (2007 est.)

Luxembourg
  4.5% (2007 est.)

Macau
  16.6% (2006)

Macedonia
  5.1% (2007 est.)

Madagascar
  6.3% (2007 est.)

Malawi
  8% (2007 est.)

Malaysia
  6.3% (2007 est.)

Maldives
  6.6% (2007 est.)

Mali
  2.8% (2007 est.)

Malta
  3.8% (2007 est.)

Marshall Islands
  3.5% (2005 est.)

Mauritania
  1% (2007 est.)

Mauritius
  5.4% (2007 est.)

Mayotte
  NA%

Mexico
  3.2% (2007 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  0.3% (2005 est.)

Moldova
  3% (2007 est.)

Monaco
  0.9% (2000 est.)

Mongolia
  9.9% (2007 est.)

Montenegro
  7.5% (2007 est.)

Montserrat
  -1% (2002 est.)

Morocco
  2.2% (2007 est.)

Mozambique
  7.3% (2007 est.)

Namibia
  3.6% (2007 est.)

Nauru
  NA%

Nepal
  3.2% (2007 est.)

Netherlands
  3.5% (2007 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  1% (2004 est.)

New Caledonia
  NA%

New Zealand
  3.1% (2007 est.)

Nicaragua
  3.8% (2007 est.)

Niger
  3.2% (2007 est.)

Nigeria
  6.4% (2007 est.)

Niue
  6.2% (2003 est.)

Northern Mariana Islands
  NA%

Norway
  3.7% (2007 est.)

Oman
  5.6% (2007 est.)

Pakistan
  5.3% (2007 est.)

Palau
  5.5% (2005 est.)

Panama
  11.2% (2007 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  6% (2007 est.)

Paraguay
  6.6% (2007 est.)

Peru
  9% (2007 est.)

Philippines
  7.3% (2007 est.)

Poland
  6.6% (2007 est.)

Portugal
  1.8% (2007 est.)

Puerto Rico
  -1.2% (2007 est.)

Qatar
  8.4% (2007 est.)

Romania
  6% (2007 est.)

Russia
  8.1% (2007 est.)

Rwanda
  6% (2007 est.)

Saint Helena
  NA%

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  3.3% (2007 est.)

Saint Lucia
  3.2% (2007 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  NA%

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  6.6% (2007 est.)

Samoa
  6% (2007 est.)

San Marino
  4.6% (2004 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe
  6% (2007 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  3.5% (2007 est.)

Senegal
  4.6% (2007 est.)

Serbia
  7.3% (2007 est.)

Seychelles
  5.3% (2007 est.)

Sierra Leone
  7% (2007 est.)

Singapore
  7.7% (2007 est.)

Slovakia
  10.4% (2007 est.)

Slovenia
  6.1% (2007 est.)

Solomon Islands
  5.4% (2007 est.)

Somalia
  2.6% (2007 est.)

South Africa
  5.1% (2007 est.)

Spain
  3.8% (2007 est.)

Sri Lanka
  6.8% (2007 est.)

Sudan
  10.2% (2007 est.)

Suriname
  5.1% (2007 est.)

Svalbard
  NA%

Swaziland
  2.3% (2007 est.)

Sweden
  2.7% (2007 est.)

Switzerland
  3.1% (2007 est.)

Syria
  4.3% (2007 est.)

Taiwan
  5.7% (2007 est.)

Tajikistan
  7.8% (2007 est.)

Tanzania
  7.3% (2007 est.)

Thailand
  4.8% (2007 est.)

Timor-Leste
  19.8% (2007 est.)

Togo
  2.1% (2007 est.)

Tokelau
  NA%

Tonga
  -3.5% (2007 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  5.5% (2007 est.)

Tunisia
  6.3% (2007 est.)

Turkey
  4.5% (2007 est.)

Turkmenistan
  11.5% (IMF estimate)
  note: official government statistics are widely regarded as
  unreliable (2007 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  4.9% (2000 est.)

Tuvalu
  3% (2006 est.)

Uganda
  6% (2007 est.)

Ukraine
  7.7% (2007 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  7.5% (2007 est.)

United Kingdom
  3.1% (2007 est.)

United States
  2% (2007 est.)

Uruguay
  7.4% (2007 est.)

Uzbekistan
  9.5% (2007 est.)

Vanuatu
  5% (2007 est.)

Venezuela
  8.4% (2007 est.)

Vietnam
  8.5% (2007 est.)

Virgin Islands
  2% (2002 est.)

Wallis and Futuna
  NA%

West Bank
  -8% (includes Gaza Strip) (2006 est.)

Western Sahara
  NA%

World
  5.2% (2007 est.)

Yemen
  2.8% (2007 est.)

Zambia
  6% (2007 est.)

Zimbabwe
  -5.5% (2007 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2004  GDP - per capita (PPP)


Afghanistan
  $1,000 (2007 est.)

Albania
  $5,800 (2007 est.)

Algeria
  $6,700 (2007 est.)

American Samoa
  $5,800 (2005 est.)

Andorra
  $38,800 (2005)

Angola
  $7,800 (2007 est.)

Anguilla
  $8,800 (2004 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  $18,300 (2007 est.)

Argentina
  $13,100 (2007 est.)

Armenia
  $5,800 (2007 est.)

Aruba
  $21,800 (2004 est.)

Australia
  $37,300 (2007 est.)

Austria
  $39,300 (2007 est.)

Azerbaijan
  $8,000 (2007 est.)

Bahamas, The
  $28,000 (2007 est.)

Bahrain
  $33,900 (2007 est.)

Bangladesh
  $1,400 (2007 est.)

Barbados
  $18,900 (2007 est.)

Belarus
  $10,600 (2007 est.)

Belgium
  $36,200 (2007 est.)

Belize
  $7,900 (2007 est.)

Benin
  $1,400 (2007 est.)

Bermuda
  $69,900 (2004 est.)

Bhutan
  $5,200 (2007 est.)

Bolivia
  $4,400 (2007 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  $6,100 (2007 est.)

Botswana
  $14,300 (2007 est.)

Brazil
  $9,500 (2007 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  $38,500 (2004 est.)

Brunei
  $51,000 (2007 est.)

Bulgaria
  $11,800 (2007 est.)

Burkina Faso
  $1,200 (2007 est.)

Burma
  $1,900 (2007 est.)

Burundi
  $300 (2007 est.)

Cambodia
  $1,900 (2007 est.)

Cameroon
  $2,200 (2007 est.)

Canada
  $38,600 (2007 est.)

Cape Verde
  $3,200 (2007 est.)

Cayman Islands
  $43,800 (2004 est.)

Central African Republic
  $700 (2007 est.)

Chad
  $1,500 (2007 est.)

Chile
  $14,300 (2007 est.)

China
  $5,400 (2007 est.)

Colombia
  $7,400 (2007 est.)

Comoros
  $1,100 (2007 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  $300 (2007 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  $3,400 (2007 est.)

Cook Islands
  $9,100 (2005 est.)

Costa Rica
  $11,100 (2007 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  $1,700 (2007 est.)

Croatia
  $15,500 (2007 est.)

Cuba
  $11,000 (2007 est.)

Cyprus
  $27,100 (2007 est.)

Czech Republic
  $24,500 (2007 est.)

Denmark
  $37,200 (2007 est.)

Djibouti
  $2,300 (2007 est.)

Dominica
  $9,000 (2007 est.)

Dominican Republic
  $6,600 (2007 est.)

Ecuador
  $7,200 (2007 est.)

Egypt
  $5,000 (2007 est.)

El Salvador
  $6,000 (2007 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  $28,200 (2007 est.)

Eritrea
  $800 (2007 est.)

Estonia
  $21,800 (2007 est.)

Ethiopia
  $700 (2007 est.)

European Union
  $32,700 (2007 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  $25,000 (2002 est.)

Faroe Islands
  $31,000 (2001 est.)

Fiji
  $3,900 (2007 est.)

Finland
  $36,000 (2007 est.)

France
  $32,600 (2007 est.)

French Polynesia
  $17,500 (2003 est.)

Gabon
  $14,000 (2007 est.)

Gambia, The
  $1,200 (2007 est.)

Gaza Strip
  $1,100 (includes West Bank) (2006 est.)

Georgia
  $4,400 (2007 est.)

Germany
  $34,100 (2007 est.)

Ghana
  $1,400 (2007 est.)

Gibraltar
  $38,200 (2005 est.)

Greece
  $30,600 (2007 est.)

Greenland
  $20,000 (2001 est.)

Grenada
  $10,500 (2007 est.)

Guam
  $15,000 (2005 est.)

Guatemala
  $5,100 (2007 est.)

Guernsey
  $44,600 (2005)

Guinea
  $1,100 (2007 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  $600 (2007 est.)

Guyana
  $3,700 (2007 est.)

Haiti
  $1,300 (2007 est.)

Honduras
  $4,300 (2007 est.)

Hong Kong
  $42,000 (2007 est.)

Hungary
  $19,300 (2007 est.)

Iceland
  $40,400 (2007 est.)

India
  $2,600 (2007 est.)

Indonesia
  $3,600 (2007 est.)

Iran
  $11,700 (2007 est.)

Iraq
  $3,700 (2007 est.)

Ireland
  $46,600 (2007 est.)

Isle of Man
  $35,000 (2005 est.)

Israel
  $26,600 (2007 est.)

Italy
  $30,900 (2007 est.)

Jamaica
  $7,400 (2007 est.)

Japan
  $33,500 (2007 est.)

Jersey
  $57,000 (2005 est.)

Jordan
  $4,700 (2007 est.)

Kazakhstan
  $11,000 (2007 est.)

Kenya
  $1,700 (2007 est.)

Kiribati
  $3,600 (2007 est.)

Korea, North
  $1,700 (2007 est.)

Korea, South
  $25,000 (2007 est.)

Kosovo
  $1,800 (2007 est.)

Kuwait
  $55,900 (2007 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  $2,000 (2007 est.)

Laos
  $2,000 (2007 est.)

Latvia
  $17,700 (2007 est.)

Lebanon
  $10,300 (2007 est.)

Lesotho
  $1,400 (2007 est.)

Liberia
  $500 (2007 est.)

Libya
  $12,400 (2007 est.)

Liechtenstein
  $25,000 (1999 est.)

Lithuania
  $16,800 (2007 est.)

Luxembourg
  $79,400 (2007 est.)

Macau
  $28,400 (2006)

Macedonia
  $8,400 (2007 est.)

Madagascar
  $900 (2007 est.)

Malawi
  $800 (2007 est.)

Malaysia
  $14,500 (2007 est.)

Maldives
  $4,600 (2007 est.)

Mali
  $1,100 (2007 est.)

Malta
  $23,400 (2007 est.)

Marshall Islands
  $2,900 (2005 est.)

Mauritania
  $1,800 (2007 est.)

Mauritius
  $11,300 (2007 est.)

Mayotte
  $4,900 (2005 est.)

Mexico
  $12,400 (2007 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  $2,300 (2005 est.)

Moldova
  $2,300 (2007 est.)

Monaco
  $30,000 (2006 est.)

Mongolia
  $2,900 (2007 est.)

Montenegro
  $3,800 (2005 est.)

Montserrat
  $3,400 (2002 est.)

Morocco
  $3,700 (2007 est.)

Mozambique
  $800 (2007 est.)

Namibia
  $5,200 (2007 est.)

Nauru
  $5,000 (2005 est.)

Nepal
  $1,000 (2007 est.)

Netherlands
  $39,000 (2007 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  $16,000 (2004 est.)

New Caledonia
  $15,000 (2003 est.)

New Zealand
  $27,200 (2007 est.)

Nicaragua
  $2,800 (2007 est.)

Niger
  $700 (2007 est.)

Nigeria
  $2,100 (2007 est.)

Niue
  $5,800 (2003 est.)

Northern Mariana Islands
  $12,500 (2000 est.)

Norway
  $53,300 (2007 est.)

Oman
  $19,000 (2007 est.)

Pakistan
  $2,400 (2007 est.)

Palau
  $7,600 (2005 est.)

Panama
  $10,700 (2007 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  $2,100 (2007 est.)

Paraguay
  $4,000 (2007 est.)

Peru
  $7,600 (2007 est.)

Philippines
  $3,200 (2007 est.)

Poland
  $16,200 (2007 est.)

Portugal
  $21,800 (2007 est.)

Puerto Rico
  $18,400 (2007 est.)

Qatar
  $87,600 (2007 est.)

Romania
  $11,100 (2007 est.)

Russia
  $14,800 (2007 est.)

Rwanda
  $800 (2007 est.)

Saint Helena
  $2,500 (1998 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  $13,900 (2007 est.)

Saint Lucia
  $10,700 (2007 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  $7,000 (2001 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  $9,800 (2007 est.)

Samoa
  $5,400 (2007 est.)

San Marino
  $34,100 (2004 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe
  $1,600 (2007 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  $19,800 (2007 est.)

Senegal
  $1,700 (2007 est.)

Serbia
  $10,400 (2007 est.)

Seychelles
  $16,600 (2007 est.)

Sierra Leone
  $600 (2007 est.)

Singapore
  $49,900 (2007 est.)

Slovakia
  $20,200 (2007 est.)

Slovenia
  $28,000 (2007 est.)

Solomon Islands
  $1,900 (2007 est.)

Somalia
  $600 (2007 est.)

South Africa
  $9,700 (2007 est.)

Spain
  $33,600 (2007 est.)

Sri Lanka
  $4,000 (2007 est.)

Sudan
  $1,900 (2007 est.)

Suriname
  $8,700 (2007 est.)

Swaziland
  $4,700 (2007 est.)

Sweden
  $37,500 (2007 est.)

Switzerland
  $40,100 (2007 est.)

Syria
  $4,700 (2007 est.)

Taiwan
  $30,100 (2007 est.)

Tajikistan
  $1,600 (2007 est.)

Tanzania
  $1,300 (2007 est.)

Thailand
  $8,000 (2007 est.)

Timor-Leste
  $2,500 (2007 est.)

Togo
  $900 (2007 est.)

Tokelau
  $1,000 (1993 est.)

Tonga
  $5,100 (2007 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  $25,400 (2007 est.)

Tunisia
  $7,400 (2007 est.)

Turkey
  $12,000 (2007 est.)

Turkmenistan
  $5,300 (2007 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  $11,500 (2002 est.)

Tuvalu
  $1,600 (2002 est.)

Uganda
  $1,000 (2007 est.)

Ukraine
  $7,000 (2007 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  $37,000 (2007 est.)

United Kingdom
  $35,000 (2007 est.)

United States
  $45,800 (2007 est.)

Uruguay
  $10,800 (2007 est.)

Uzbekistan
  $2,400 (2007 est.)

Vanuatu
  $3,900 (2007 est.)

Venezuela
  $12,800 (2007 est.)

Vietnam
  $2,600 (2007 est.)

Virgin Islands
  $14,500 (2004 est.)

Wallis and Futuna
  $3,800 (2004 est.)

West Bank
  $1,100 (includes Gaza Strip) (2006 est.)

Western Sahara
  $NA

World
  $10,000 (2007 est.)

Yemen
  $2,500 (2007 est.)

Zambia
  $1,400 (2007 est.)

Zimbabwe
  $200 (2007 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2006  Dependency status


Akrotiri
  a special form of UK overseas territory; administered by an
  administrator who is also the Commander, British Forces Cyprus

American Samoa
  unincorporated and unorganized territory of the US;
  administered by the Office of Insular Affairs, US Department of the
  Interior

Anguilla
  overseas territory of the UK

Aruba
  member country of the Kingdom of the Netherlands; full
  autonomy in internal affairs obtained in 1986 upon separation from
  the Netherlands Antilles; Dutch Government responsible for defense
  and foreign affairs

Ashmore and Cartier Islands
  territory of Australia; administered by
  the Australian Attorney-General's Department

Bermuda
  overseas territory of the UK

Bouvet Island
  territory of Norway; administered by the Polar
  Department of the Ministry of Justice and Police from Oslo

British Indian Ocean Territory
  overseas territory of the UK;
  administered by a commissioner, resident in the Foreign and
  Commonwealth Office in London

British Virgin Islands
  overseas territory of the UK; internal
  self-governing

Cayman Islands
  overseas territory of the UK

Christmas Island
  non-self governing territory of Australia;
  administered from Canberra by the Australian Attorney-General's
  Department

Clipperton Island
  possession of France; administered directly by the
  Minister of Overseas France

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  non-self governing territory of Australia;
  administered from Canberra by the Australian Attorney-General's
  Department

Cook Islands
  self-governing in free association with New Zealand;
  Cook Islands is fully responsible for internal affairs; New Zealand
  retains responsibility for external affairs and defense, in
  consultation with the Cook Islands

Coral Sea Islands
  territory of Australia; administered from Canberra
  by the Australian Attorney-General's Department

Dhekelia
  a special form of UK overseas territory; administered by an
  administrator who is also the Commander, British Forces Cyprus

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  overseas territory of the UK; also
  claimed by Argentina

Faroe Islands
  part of the Kingdom of Denmark; self-governing
  overseas administrative division of Denmark since 1948

French Polynesia
  overseas lands of France; overseas territory of
  France from 1946-2004

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  overseas territory of France
  since 1955; administered from Paris by Administrateur Superieur Eric
  PILLOTON (since 10 April 2007)

Gibraltar
  overseas territory of the UK

Greenland
  part of the Kingdom of Denmark; self-governing overseas
  administrative division of Denmark since 1979

Guam
  organized, unincorporated territory of the US with policy
  relations between Guam and the US under the jurisdiction of the
  Office of Insular Affairs, US Department of the Interior

Guernsey
  British crown dependency

Heard Island and McDonald Islands
  territory of Australia;
  administered from Canberra by the Australian Antarctic Division of
  the Department of the Environment, Water, Heritage and the Arts

Hong Kong
  special administrative region of China

Isle of Man
  British crown dependency

Jan Mayen
  territory of Norway; since August 1994, administered from
  Oslo through the county governor (fylkesmann) of Nordland; however,
  authority has been delegated to a station commander of the Norwegian
  Defense Communication Service

Jersey
  British crown dependency

Macau
  special administrative region of China

Mayotte
  departmental collectivity of France

Montserrat
  overseas territory of the UK

Navassa Island
  unorganized, unincorporated territory of the US;
  administered by the Fish and Wildlife Service, US Department of the
  Interior, from the Caribbean Islands National Wildlife Refuge in
  Boqueron, Puerto Rico; in September 1996, the Coast Guard ceased
  operations and maintenance of Navassa Island Light, a 46-meter-tall
  lighthouse on the southern side of the island; there has also been a
  private claim advanced against the island

Netherlands Antilles
  an autonomous country within the Kingdom of the
  Netherlands; full autonomy in internal affairs granted in 1954;
  Dutch Government responsible for defense and foreign affairs

New Caledonia
  territorial collectivity of France since 1998

Niue
  self-governing in free association with New Zealand since 1974;
  Niue fully responsible for internal affairs; New Zealand retains
  responsibility for external affairs and defense; however, these
  responsibilities confer no rights of control and are only exercised
  at the request of the Government of Niue

Norfolk Island
  self governing territory of Australia; administered
  from Canberra by the Australian Attorney-General's Department

Northern Mariana Islands
  commonwealth in political union with the
  US; federal funds to the Commonwealth administered by the US
  Department of the Interior, Office of Insular Affairs

Pitcairn Islands
  overseas territory of the UK

Puerto Rico
  unincorporated, organized territory of the US with
  commonwealth status; policy relations between Puerto Rico and the US
  conducted under the jurisdiction of the Office of the President

Saint Barthelemy
  overseas collectivity of France

Saint Helena
  overseas territory of the UK

Saint Martin
  overseas collectivity of France

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  self-governing territorial overseas
  collectivity of France

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  overseas territory of
  the UK, also claimed by Argentina; administered from the Falkland
  Islands by a commissioner, who is concurrently governor of the
  Falkland Islands, representing Queen ELIZABETH II

Svalbard
  territory of Norway; administered by the Polar Department
  of the Ministry of Justice, through a governor (sysselmann) residing
  in Longyearbyen, Spitsbergen; by treaty (9 February 1920)
  sovereignty was awarded to Norway

Tokelau
  self-administering territory of New Zealand; note - Tokelau
  and New Zealand have agreed to a draft constitution as Tokelau moves
  toward free association with New Zealand; a UN sponsored referendum
  on self governance in October 2007 did not produce the two-thirds
  majority vote necessary for changing the political status

Turks and Caicos Islands
  overseas territory of the UK

United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
  unincorporated
  territories of the US; administered from Washington, DC by the Fish
  and Wildlife Service of the US Department of the Interior as part of
  the National Wildlife Refuge system
  note on Palmyra Atoll: incorporated Territory of the US; partly
  privately owned and partly federally owned; administered from
  Washington, DC by the Fish and Wildlife Service of the US Department
  of the Interior; the Office of Insular Affairs of the US Department
  of the Interior continues to administer nine excluded areas
  comprising certain tidal and submerged lands within the 12 nm
  territorial sea or within the lagoon

Virgin Islands
  organized, unincorporated territory of the US with
  policy relations between the Virgin Islands and the US under the
  jurisdiction of the Office of Insular Affairs, US Department of the
  Interior

Wake Island
  unorganized, unincorporated territory of the US;
  administered from Washington, DC, by the Department of the Interior;
  activities in the atoll are currently conducted by the US Air Force

Wallis and Futuna
  overseas territory of France

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2007  Diplomatic representation from the US


Afghanistan
  chief of mission: Ambassador William B. WOOD
  embassy: The Great Masood Road, Kabul
  mailing address: U.S. Embassy Kabul, APO, AE 09806
  telephone: [93] 0700 108 001
  FAX: [93] 0700 108 564

Akrotiri
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Albania
  chief of mission: Ambassador Dr. John L. WITHERS, II
  embassy: Rruga e Elbasanit, Labinoti #103, Tirana
  mailing address: US Department of State, 9510 Tirana Place, Dulles,
  VA 20189-9510
  telephone: [355] (4) 2247285
  FAX: [355] (4) 2232222

Algeria
  chief of mission: Ambassador David D. PEARCE
  embassy: 05 Chemin Cheikh Bachir, El-Ibrahimi, El-Biar 16000 Algiers
  mailing address: B. P. 408, Alger-Gare, 16030 Algiers
  telephone: [213] 770-08-2000
  FAX: [213] 21-60-7355

American Samoa
  none (territory of the US)

Andorra
  the US does not have an embassy in Andorra; the US
  Ambassador to Spain is accredited to Andorra; US interests in
  Andorra are represented by the Consulate General's office in
  Barcelona (Spain); mailing address: Paseo Reina Elisenda de
  Montcada, 23, 08034 Barcelona, Spain; telephone: [34] (93) 280-2227;
  FAX: [34] (93) 280-6175

Angola
  chief of mission: Ambassador Dan MOZENA
  embassy: number 32 Rua Houari Boumedienne (in the Miramar area of
  Luanda), Luanda
  mailing address: international mail: Caixa Postal 6468, Luanda;
  pouch: US Embassy Luanda, US Department of State, 2550 Luanda Place,
  Washington, DC 20521-2550
  telephone: [244] (222) 64-1000
  FAX: [244] (222) 64-1232

Anguilla
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Antigua and Barbuda
  the US does not have an embassy in Antigua and
  Barbuda; the US Ambassador to Barbados is accredited to Antigua and
  Barbuda

Argentina
  chief of mission: Ambassador Earl Anthony WAYNE
  embassy: Avenida Colombia 4300, C1425GMN Buenos Aires
  mailing address: international mail: use embassy street address; APO
  address: US Embassy Buenos Aires, Unit 4334, APO AA 34034
  telephone: [54] (11) 5777-4533
  FAX: [54] (11) 5777-4240

Armenia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Marie L. YOVANOVITCH
  embassy: 1 American Ave., Yerevan 0082
  mailing address: American Embassy Yerevan, US Department of State,
  7020 Yerevan Place, Washington, DC 20521-7020
  telephone: [374](10) 464-700
  FAX: [374](10) 464-742

Aruba
  the US does not have an embassy in Aruba; the Consul General
  to Netherlands Antilles is accredited to Aruba

Ashmore and Cartier Islands
  none (territory of Australia)

Australia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Robert D. McCALLUM, Jr.
  embassy: Moonah Place, Yarralumla, Canberra, Australian Capital
  Territory 2600
  mailing address: APO AP 96549
  telephone: [61] (02) 6214-5600
  FAX: [61] (02) 6214-5970
  consulate(s) general: Melbourne, Perth, Sydney

Austria
  chief of mission: Ambassador David F. GIRARD-DICARLO
  embassy: Boltzmanngasse 16, A-1090, Vienna
  mailing address: use embassy street address
  telephone: [43] (1) 31339-0
  FAX: [43] (1) 3100682

Azerbaijan
  chief of mission: Ambassador Anne E. DERSE
  embassy: 83 Azadlig Prospecti, Baku AZ1007
  mailing address: American Embassy Baku, US Department of State, 7050
  Baku Place, Washington, DC 20521-7050
  telephone: [994] (12) 4980-335 through 337
  FAX: [994] (12) 4656-671

Bahamas, The
  chief of mission: Ambassador Ned L. SIEGEL
  embassy: 42 Queen Street, Nassau, New Providence
  mailing address: local or express mail address: P. O. Box N-8197,
  Nassau; US Department of State, 3370 Nassau Place, Washington, DC
  20521-3370
  telephone: [1] (242) 322-1181, 328-2206 (after hours)
  FAX: [1] (242) 328-2206

Bahrain
  chief of mission: Ambassador J. Adam ERELI
  embassy: Building #979, Road 3119 (next to Al-Ahli Sports Club),
  Block 331, Zinj District, Manama
  mailing address: PSC 451, Box 660, FPO AE 09834-5100; international
  mail: American Embassy, Box 26431, Manama
  telephone: [973] 1724-2700
  FAX: [973] 1727-0547

Bangladesh
  chief of mission: Ambassador James F. MORIARTY
  embassy: Madani Avenue, Baridhara, Dhaka 1212
  mailing address: G. P. O. Box 323, Dhaka 1000
  telephone: [880] (2) 885-5500
  FAX: [880] (2) 882-3744

Barbados
  chief of mission: Ambassador Mary M. OURISMAN
  embassy: U.S. Embassy, Wildey Business Park, Wildey, St. Michael BB
  14006
  mailing address: P. O. Box 302, Bridgetown BB 11000; CMR 1014, APO
  AA 34055
  telephone: [1] (246) 227-4399
  FAX: [1] (246) 431-0179

Belarus
  chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires
  Jonathan MOORE
  embassy: 46 Starovilenskaya Street, Minsk 220002
  mailing address: PSC 78, Box B Minsk, APO 09723
  telephone: [375] (17) 210-12-83, 217-7347, 217-7348
  FAX: [375] (17) 234-7853

Belgium
  chief of mission: Ambassador Sam FOX
  embassy: 27 Boulevard du Regent [Regentlaan], B-1000 Brussels
  mailing address: PSC 82, Box 002, APO AE 09710
  telephone: [32] (2) 508-2111
  FAX: [32] (2) 511-2725

Belize
  chief of mission: Ambassador Robert J. DIETER
  embassy: Floral Park Road, Belmopan City, Cayo District
  mailing address: P.O. Box 497, Belmopan City, Cayo District, Belize
  telephone: [501] 822-4011
  FAX: [501] 822-4012

Benin
  chief of mission: Ambassador Gayleatha B. BROWN
  embassy: Rue Caporal Bernard Anani, Cotonou
  mailing address: 01 B. P. 2012, Cotonou
  telephone: [229] 21-30-06-50
  FAX: [229] 21-30-03-84

Bermuda
  chief of mission: Consul General Gregory W. SLAYTON
  consulate(s) general: Crown Hill, 16 Middle Road, Devonshire DVO3
  mailing address: P. O. Box HM325, Hamilton HMBX; American Consulate
  General Hamilton, US Department of State, 5300 Hamilton Place,
  Washington, DC 20520-5300
  telephone: [1] (441) 295-1342
  FAX: [1] (441) 295-1592, [1] (441) 296-9233

Bhutan
  the US and Bhutan have no formal diplomatic relations,
  although informal contact is maintained between the Bhutanese and US
  Embassy in New Delhi (India)

Bolivia
  chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires
  Krishna URS
  embassy: Avenida Arce 2780, Casilla 425, La Paz
  mailing address: P. O. Box 425, La Paz; APO AA 34032
  telephone: [591] (2) 216-8000
  FAX: [591] (2) 216-8111

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  chief of mission: Ambassador Charles L.
  ENGLISH
  embassy: Alipasina 43, 71000 Sarajevo
  mailing address: use embassy street address
  telephone: [387] (33) 445-700
  FAX: [387] (33) 659-722
  branch office(s): Banja Luka, Mostar

Botswana
  chief of mission: Ambassador Stephen J. NOLAN
  embassy: Embassy Enclave (off Khama Crescent), Gaborone
  mailing address: Embassy Enclave, P. O. Box 90, Gaborone
  telephone: [267] 395-3982
  FAX: [267] 395-6947

Brazil
  chief of mission: Ambassador Clifford M. SOBEL
  embassy: Avenida das Nacoes, Quadra 801, Lote 3, Distrito Federal
  Cep 70403-900, Brasilia
  mailing address: Unit 3500, APO AA 34030
  telephone: [55] (61) 3312-7000
  FAX: [55] (61) 3225-9136
  consulate(s) general: Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo
  consulate(s): Recife

British Indian Ocean Territory
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

British Virgin Islands
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Brunei
  chief of mission: Ambassador William E. TODD
  embassy: Third Floor, Teck Guan Plaza, Jalan Sultan, Bandar Seri
  Begawan, BS8811
  mailing address: PSC 470 (BSB), FPO AP 96507; P.O. Box 2991, Bandar
  Seri Begawan BS8675, Negara Brunei Darussalam
  telephone: [673] 222-0384
  FAX: [673] 222-5293

Bulgaria
  chief of mission: Ambassador Nancy McELDOWNEY
  embassy: 16 Kozyak Street, Sofia 1407
  mailing address: American Embassy Sofia, US Department of State,
  5740 Sofia Place, Washington, DC 20521-5740
  telephone: [359] (2) 937-5100
  FAX: [359] (2) 937-5320

Burkina Faso
  chief of mission: Ambassador Jeanine E. JACKSON
  embassy: 602 Avenue Raoul Follereau, Koulouba, Secteur 4
  mailing address: 01 B. P. 35, Ouagadougou 01; pouch mail - US
  Department of State, 2440 Ouagadougou Place, Washington, DC
  20521-2440
  telephone: [226] 50-30-67-23
  FAX: [226] 50-30-38-90

Burma
  chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Larry
  M. DINGER
  embassy: 110 University Avenue, Kamayut Township, Rangoon
  mailing address: Box B, APO AP 96546
  telephone: [95] (1) 536-509, 535-756, 538-038
  FAX: [95] (1) 650-306

Burundi
  chief of mission: Ambassador Patricia Newton MOLLER
  embassy: Avenue des Etats-Unis, Bujumbura
  mailing address: B. P. 1720, Bujumbura
  telephone: [257] 223454
  FAX: [257] 222926

Cambodia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Carol A. RODLEY
  embassy: #1, Street 96, Sangkat Wat Phnom, Khan Daun Penh, Phnom Penh
  mailing address: Box P, APO AP 96546
  telephone: [855] (23) 728-000
  FAX: [855] (23) 728-600

Cameroon
  chief of mission: Ambassador Janet E. GARVEY
  embassy: Avenue Rosa Parks, Yaounde
  mailing address: P. O. Box 817, Yaounde; pouch: American Embassy, US
  Department of State, Washington, DC 20521-2520
  telephone: [237] 2220 15 00; Consular: [237] 2220 16 03
  FAX: [237] 2220 16 00 Ext. 4531; Consular FAX: [237] 2220 17 52
  branch office(s): Douala

Canada
  chief of mission: Ambassador David H. WILKINS
  embassy: 490 Sussex Drive, Ottawa, Ontario K1N 1G8
  mailing address: P. O. Box 5000, Ogdensburgh, NY 13669-0430; P.O.
  Box 866, Station B, Ottawa, Ontario K1P 5T1
  telephone: [1] (613) 688-5335
  FAX: [1] (613) 688-3082
  consulate(s) general: Calgary, Halifax, Montreal, Quebec, Toronto,
  Vancouver, Winnipeg

Cape Verde
  chief of mission: Ambassador Marianne M. MYLES
  embassy: Rua Abilio Macedo n6, Praia
  mailing address: C. P. 201, Praia
  telephone: [238] 2-60-89-00
  FAX: [238] 2-61-13-55

Cayman Islands
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Central African Republic
  chief of mission: Ambassador Frederick B.
  COOK
  embassy: Avenue David Dacko, Bangui
  mailing address: B. P. 924, Bangui
  telephone: [236] 61 02 00
  FAX: [236] 61 44 94
  note: the embassy is currently operating with a minimal staff

Chad
  chief of mission: Ambassador Louis NIGRO
  embassy: Avenue Felix Eboue, N'Djamena
  mailing address: B. P. 413, N'Djamena
  telephone: [235] 251-62-11, [235] 251-70-09, [235] 251-77-59
  FAX: [235] 251-56-54

Chile
  chief of mission: Ambassador Paul E. SIMONS
  embassy: Avenida Andres Bello 2800, Las Condes, Santiago
  mailing address: APO AA 34033
  telephone: [56] (2) 330-3000
  FAX: [56] (2) 330-3710, 330-3160

China
  chief of mission: Ambassador Clark T. RANDT, Jr.
  embassy: 55 An Jia Lou Lu, 100600 Beijing
  mailing address: PSC 461, Box 50, FPO AP 96521-0002
  telephone: [86] (10) 8531-3000
  FAX: [86] (10) 8531-3300
  consulate(s) general: Chengdu, Guangzhou, Hong Kong and Macau,
  Shanghai, Shenyang

Christmas Island
  none (territory of Australia)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  none (territory of Australia)

Colombia
  chief of mission: Ambassador William R. BROWNFIELD
  embassy: Calle 24 Bis No. 48-50, Bogota, D.C.
  mailing address: Carrera 45 No. 24B-27, Bogota, D.C.
  telephone: [57] (1) 315-0811
  FAX: [57] (1) 315-2197

Comoros
  the US does not have an embassy in Comoros; the ambassador
  to Madagascar is accredited to Comoros

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  chief of mission: Ambassador
  William GARVELINK
  embassy: 310 Avenue des Aviateurs, Kinshasa
  mailing address: Unit 31550, APO AE 09828
  telephone: [243] (81) 225-5872
  FAX: [243] (81) 301-0561

Congo, Republic of the
  chief of mission: Ambassador Allan EASTHAM
  embassy: Boulevard de la Revolution, BDEAC Building, 4th Floor,
  Brazzaville; note - a new embassy is expected to open in 2009
  mailing address: B.P. 1015, Brazzaville
  telephone: [242] 281-1481, [242] 281-3368; note - until the new
  embassy in Brazzaville becomes operational, some duties will still
  be handled in the US embassy in Kinshasha, Democratic Republic of
  the Congo

Cook Islands
  none (self-governing in free association with New
  Zealand)

Coral Sea Islands
  none (territory of Australia)

Costa Rica
  chief of mission: Ambassador Peter CIANCHETTE
  embassy: Calle 120 Avenida O, Pavas, San Jose
  mailing address: APO AA 34020
  telephone: [506] 519-2000
  FAX: [506] 519-2305

Cote d'Ivoire
  chief of mission: Ambassador Wanda L. NESBITT
  embassy: Cocody Riviera Golf 01, Abidjan
  mailing address: B. P. 1712, Abidjan 01
  telephone: [225] 22 49 40 00
  FAX: [225] 22 49 43 32

Croatia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Robert A. BRADTKE
  embassy: 2 Thomas Jefferson Street, 10010 Zagreb
  mailing address: use street address
  telephone: [385] (1) 661-2200
  FAX: [385] (1) 661-2373

Cuba
  none; note - the US has an Interests Section in the Swiss
  Embassy, headed by Chief of Mission Jonathan D. FARRAR; address:
  USINT, Swiss Embassy, Calzada between L and M Streets, Vedado,
  Havana; telephone: [53] (7) 833-3551 through 3559 (operator
  assistance required); FAX: [53] (7) 833-1653; protecting power in
  Cuba is Switzerland

Cyprus
  chief of mission: Ambassador Frank C. URBANCIC, Jr.
  embassy: corner of Metochiou and Ploutarchou Streets, 2407 Engomi,
  Nicosia
  mailing address: P. O. Box 24536, 1385 Nicosia
  telephone: [357] (22) 393939
  FAX: [357] (22) 780944

Czech Republic
  chief of mission: Ambassador Richard W. GRABER
  embassy: Trziste 15, 118 01 Prague 1
  mailing address: use embassy street address
  telephone: [420] 257 022 000
  FAX: [420] 257 022 809

Denmark
  chief of mission: Ambassador James P. CAIN
  embassy: Dag Hammarskjolds Alle 24, 2100 Copenhagen
  mailing address: PSC 73, APO AE 09716
  telephone: [45] 33 41 71 00
  FAX: [45] 35 43 02 23

Dhekelia
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Djibouti
  chief of mission: Ambassador James C. SWAN
  embassy: Plateau du Serpent, Boulevard Marechal Joffre, Djibouti
  mailing address: B. P. 185, Djibouti
  telephone: [253] 35 39 95
  FAX: [253] 35 39 40

Dominica
  the US does not have an embassy in Dominica; the US
  Ambassador to Barbados is accredited to Dominica

Dominican Republic
  chief of mission: Ambassador P. Robert FANNIN
  embassy: corner of Calle Cesar Nicolas Penson and Calle Leopoldo
  Navarro, Santo Domingo
  mailing address: Unit 5500, APO AA 34041-5500
  telephone: [1] (809) 221-2171
  FAX: [1] (809) 686-7437

Ecuador
  chief of mission: Ambassador Heather HODGES
  embassy: Avenida Avigiras E12-170 y Avenida Eloy Alfaro, Quito
  mailing address: Avenida Guayacanes N52-205 y Avenida Avigiras
  telephone: [593] (2) 398-5000
  FAX: [593] (2) 398-5100
  consulate(s) general: Guayaquil

Egypt
  chief of mission: Ambassador Margaret SCOBEY
  embassy: 8 Kamal El Din Salah St., Garden City, Cairo
  mailing address: Unit 64900, Box 15, APO AE 09839-4900; 5 Tawfik
  Diab Street, Garden City, Cairo
  telephone: [20] (2) 2797-3300
  FAX: [20] (2) 2797-3200

El Salvador
  chief of mission: Ambassador Charles L. GLAZER
  embassy: Final Boulevard Santa Elena Sur, Antiguo Cuscatlan, La
  Libertad, San Salvador
  mailing address: Unit 3116, APO AA 34023; 3450 San Salvador Place,
  Washington, DC 20521-3450
  telephone: [503] 2501-2999
  FAX: [503] 2501-2150

Equatorial Guinea
  chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant)
  embassy: K-3, Carreterade Aeropuerto, al lado de Restaurante El
  Paraiso, Malabo; note - relocated embassy is opened for limited
  functions; inquiries should continue to be directed to the US
  Embassy in Yaounde, Cameroon
  mailing address: B.P. 817, Yaounde, Cameroon; US Embassy Yaounde, US
  Department of State, Washington, DC 20521-2520
  telephone: [237] 2220-1500
  FAX: [237] 2220-1572

Eritrea
  chief of mission: Ambassador Ronald MCMULLEN
  embassy: 179 Ala Street, Asmara
  mailing address: P. O. Box 211, Asmara
  telephone: [291] (1) 120004
  FAX: [291] (1) 127584

Estonia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Stanley Davis PHILLIPS
  embassy: Kentmanni 20, 15099 Tallinn
  mailing address: use embassy street address
  telephone: [372] 668-8100
  FAX: [372] 668-8265

Ethiopia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Donald Y. YAMAMOTO
  embassy: Entoto Street, Addis Ababa
  mailing address: P. O. Box 1014, Addis Ababa
  telephone: [251] 11-517-40-00
  FAX: [251] 11-517-40-01

European Union
  chief of mission: Ambassador Kristen SILVERBERG
  embassy: 13 Zinnerstraat/Rue Zinner, B-1000 Brussels
  mailing address: same as above
  telephone: [32] (2) 508-2111
  FAX: [32] (2) 508-2063

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  none (overseas territory of the
  UK; also claimed by Argentina)

Faroe Islands
  none (self-governing overseas administrative division
  of Denmark)

Fiji
  chief of mission: Ambassador C. Steven McGANN
  embassy: 31 Loftus Street, Suva
  mailing address: P. O. Box 218, Suva
  telephone: [679] 331-4466
  FAX: [679] 330-0081

Finland
  chief of mission: Ambassador Barbara BARRETT
  embassy: Itainen Puistotie 14B, 00140 Helsinki
  mailing address: APO AE 09723
  telephone: [358] (9) 616250
  FAX: [358] (9) 6162 5800

France
  chief of mission: Ambassador Craig R. STAPLETON
  embassy: 2 Avenue Gabriel, 75382 Paris Cedex 08
  mailing address: PSC 116, APO AE 09777
  telephone: [33] (1) 43-12-22-22
  FAX: [33] (1) 42 66 97 83
  consulate(s) general: Marseille, Strasbourg

French Polynesia
  none (overseas lands of France)

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  none (overseas territory of
  France)

Gabon
  chief of mission: Ambassador Eunice S. REDDICK
  embassy: Boulevard du Bord de Mer, Libreville
  mailing address: Centre Ville, B. P. 4000, Libreville; pouch:2270
  Libreville Place, Washington, DC 20521-2270
  telephone: [241] 76 20 03 through 76 20 04, after hours - 07380171
  FAX: [241] 74 55 07

Gambia, The
  chief of mission: Ambassador Barry L. WELLS
  embassy: Kairaba Avenue, Fajara, Banjul
  mailing address: P. M. B. No. 19, Banjul
  telephone: [220] 439-2856, 437-6169, 437-6170
  FAX: [220] 439-2475

Georgia
  chief of mission: Ambassador John F. TEFFT
  embassy: 11 George Balanchine Street, T'bilisi 0131
  mailing address: 7060 T'bilisi Place, Washington, DC 20521-7060
  telephone: [995] (32) 27-70-00
  FAX: [995] (32) 53-23-10

Germany
  chief of mission: Ambassador William R. TIMKEN, Jr.
  embassy: Pariser Platz 2, 10117 Berlin; note - new embassy opened 4
  July 2008
  mailing address: PSC 120, Box 1000, APO AE 09265, clayallee 170,
  14195 Berlin
  telephone: [49] (030) 2385174
  FAX: [49] (030) 8305-1215
  consulate(s) general: Duesseldorf, Frankfurt am Main, Hamburg,
  Leipzig, Munich

Ghana
  chief of mission: Ambassador Donald G. TEITELBAUM
  embassy: 24 4th Circular Rd. Cantonments, Accra
  mailing address: P. O. Box 194, Accra
  telephone: [233] (21) 741-000
  FAX: [233] (21) 741-389

Gibraltar
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Greece
  chief of mission: Ambassador Daniel V. SPECKHARD
  embassy: 91 Vasilisis Sophias Avenue, 10160 Athens
  mailing address: PSC 108, APO AE 09842-0108
  telephone: [30] (210) 721-2951
  FAX: [30] (210) 645-6282
  consulate(s) general: Thessaloniki

Greenland
  none (self-governing overseas administrative division of
  Denmark)

Grenada
  chief of mission: the US Ambassador to Barbados is
  accredited to Grenada
  embassy: Lance-aux-Epines Stretch, Saint George's
  mailing address: P. O. Box 54, Saint George's
  telephone: [1] (473) 444-1173 through 1177
  FAX: [1] (473) 444-4820

Guam
  none (territory of the US)

Guatemala
  chief of mission: Ambassador Stephen G. MCFARLAND
  embassy: 7-01 Avenida Reforma, Zone 10, Guatemala City
  mailing address: APO AA 34024
  telephone: [502] 2326-4000
  FAX: [502] 2326-4654

Guernsey
  none (British crown dependency)

Guinea
  chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires
  Elizabeth RASPOLIC
  embassy: Koloma, Conakry, east of Hamdallaye Circle
  mailing address: B. P. 603, Transversale No. 2, Centre Administratif
  de Koloma, Commune de Ratoma, Conakry
  telephone: [224] 65-10-40-00
  FAX: [224] 65-10-42-97

Guinea-Bissau
  the US Embassy suspended operations on 14 June 1998 in
  the midst of violent conflict between forces loyal to then President
  VIEIRA and military-led junta; the US Ambassador to Senegal is
  accredited to Guinea-Bissau

Guyana
  chief of mission: Ambassador John Melvin JONES
  embassy: US Embassy, 100 Young and Duke Streets, Kingston, Georgetown
  mailing address: P. O. Box 10507, Georgetown; US Embassy, 3170
  Georgetown Place, Washington DC 20521-3170
  telephone: [592] 225-4900 through 4909
  FAX: [592] 225-8497

Haiti
  chief of mission: Ambassador Janet A. SANDERSON
  embassy: Tabarre 41, Route de Tabarre, Port-au-Prince
  mailing address: use mailing address
  telephone: [509] 229-8000
  FAX: [509] 229-8028

Heard Island and McDonald Islands
  none (territory of Australia)

Holy See (Vatican City)
  chief of mission: Ambassador Mary Ann GLENDON
  embassy: Villa Domiziana, Via delle Terme Deciane 26, 00153 Rome
  mailing address: PSC 59, Box 66, APO AE 09624
  telephone: [39] (06) 4674-3428
  FAX: [39] (06) 575-8346

Honduras
  chief of mission: Ambassador Hugo LLORENS
  embassy: Avenida La Paz, Apartado Postal No. 3453, Tegucigalpa
  mailing address: American Embassy, APO AA 34022, Tegucigalpa
  telephone: [504] 236-9320, 238-5114
  FAX: [504] 238-4357

Hong Kong
  chief of mission: Consul General Joseph A. DONOVAN, Jr.
  consulate(s) general: 26 Garden Road, Hong Kong
  mailing address: PSC 461, Box 1, FPO AP 96521-0006
  telephone: [852] 2523-9011
  FAX: [852] 2845-1598

Hungary
  chief of mission: Ambassador April H. FOLEY
  embassy: Szabadsag ter 12, H-1054 Budapest
  mailing address: pouch: American Embassy Budapest, 5270 Budapest
  Place, US Department of State, Washington, DC 20521-5270
  telephone: [36] (1) 475-4400
  FAX: [36] (1) 475-4764

Iceland
  chief of mission: Ambassador Carol VAN VOORST
  embassy: Laufasvegur 21, 101 Reykjavik
  mailing address: US Department of State, 5640 Reykjavik Place,
  Washington, D.C. 20521-5640
  telephone: [354] 562-9100
  FAX: [354] 562-9118

India
  chief of mission: Ambassador David C. MULFORD
  embassy: Shantipath, Chanakyapuri, New Delhi 110021
  mailing address: use embassy street address
  telephone: [91] (011) 2419-8000
  FAX: [91] (11) 2419-0017
  consulate(s) general: Chennai (Madras), Kolkata (Calcutta), Mumbai
  (Bombay)

Indonesia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Cameron R. HUME
  embassy: Jalan 1 Medan Merdeka Selatan 3-5, Jakarta 10110
  mailing address: Unit 8129, Box 1, FPO AP 96520
  telephone: [62] (21) 3435-9000
  FAX: [62] (21) 3435-9922
  consulate(s) general: Surabaya

Iran
  none; note - the American Interests Section is located in the
  Swiss Embassy compound at Africa Avenue, West Farzan Street, number
  32, Tehran, Iran; telephone [98] 21 8878 2964 or 21 8879 2364; FAX
  [98] 21 8877 3265

Iraq
  chief of mission: Ambassador Ryan C. CROCKER
  embassy: Baghdad
  mailing address: APO AE 09316
  telephone: 1-240-553-0589 ext. 5340 or 5635; note - Consular Section
  FAX: NA

Ireland
  chief of mission: Ambassador Thomas C. FOLEY
  embassy: 42 Elgin Road, Ballsbridge, Dublin 4
  mailing address: use embassy street address
  telephone: [353] (1) 668-8777
  FAX: [353] (1) 668-9946

Isle of Man
  none (British crown dependency)

Israel
  chief of mission: Ambassador James B. CUNNINGHAM
  embassy: 71 Hayarkon Street, Tel Aviv 63903
  mailing address: PSC 98, Box 29, APO AE 09830
  telephone: [972] (3) 519-7575
  FAX: [972] (3) 516-4390
  consulate(s) general: Jerusalem; note - an independent US mission,
  established in 1928, whose members are not accredited to a foreign
  government

Italy
  chief of mission: Ambassador Ronald P. SPOGLI
  embassy: Via Vittorio Veneto 121, 00187-Rome
  mailing address: PSC 59, Box 100, APO AE 09624
  telephone: [39] (06) 46741
  FAX: [39] (06) 488-2672, 4674-2356
  consulate(s) general: Florence, Milan, Naples

Jamaica
  chief of mission: Ambassador Brenda LaGrange JOHNSON
  embassy: 142 Old Hope Road, Kingston 6
  mailing address: P.O. Box 541, Kingston 5
  telephone: [1] (876) 702-6000
  FAX: [1] (876) 702-6001

Japan
  chief of mission: Ambassador J. Thomas SCHIEFFER
  embassy: 1-10-5 Akasaka, Minato-ku, Tokyo 107-8420
  mailing address: Unit 9800, Box 300, APO AP 96303-0300
  telephone: [81] (03) 3224-5000
  FAX: [81] (03) 3505-1862
  consulate(s) general: Naha (Okinawa), Osaka-Kobe, Sapporo
  consulate(s): Fukuoka, Nagoya

Jersey
  none (British crown dependency)

Jordan
  chief of mission: Ambassador Robert S. Beecroft
  embassy: Abdun, Amman
  mailing address: P. O. Box 354, Amman 11118 Jordan; Unit 70200, Box
  5, APO AE 09892-0200
  telephone: [962] (6) 590-6000
  FAX: [962] (6) 592-0121

Kazakhstan
  chief of mission: Ambassador Richard E. HOAGLAND
  embassy: Ak Bulak 4, Str. 23-22, Building #3, Astana 010010
  mailing address: use embassy street address
  telephone: [7] (7172) 70-21-00
  FAX: [7] (7172) 34-08-90

Kenya
  chief of mission: Ambassador Michael RANNEBERGER
  embassy: US Embassy, United Nations Avenue, Nairobi; P. O. Box 606
  Village Market, Nairobi 00621
  mailing address: Box 21A, Unit 64100, APO AE 09831
  telephone: [254] (20) 363-6000
  FAX: [254] (20) 363-410

Kiribati
  the US does not have an embassy in Kiribati; the ambassador
  to Fiji is accredited to Kiribati

Korea, North
  none; note - Swedish Embassy in Pyongyang represents
  the US as consular protecting power

Korea, South
  chief of mission: Ambassador Kathleen STEPHENS
  embassy: 32 Sejong-no, Jongno-gu, Seoul 110-710
  mailing address: US Embassy Seoul, APO AP 96205-5550
  telephone: [82] (2) 397-4114
  FAX: [82] (2) 738-8845

Kosovo
  chief of mission: Ambassador Tina KAIDANOW
  embassy: Arberia/Dragodan, Nazim Hikmet 30, Pristina, Kosovo
  mailing address: use embassy street address
  telephone: 381 38 59 59 3000
  FAX: 381 38 549 890

Kuwait
  chief of mission: Ambassador Deborah K. JONES
  embassy: Bayan 36302, Block 13, Al-Masjed Al-Aqsa Street (near the
  Bayan palace), Kuwait City
  mailing address: P. O. Box 77 Safat 13001 Kuwait; or PSC 1280 APO AE
  09880-9000
  telephone: [965] 259-1001
  FAX: [965] 538-0282

Kyrgyzstan
  chief of mission: Ambassador Tatiana C. GFOELLER
  embassy: 171 Prospect Mira, Bishkek 720016
  mailing address: use embassy street address
  telephone: [996] (312) 551-241, (517) 777-217
  FAX: [996] (312) 551-264

Laos
  chief of mission: Ambassador Ravic R. HUSO
  embassy: 19 Rue Bartholonie, That Dam, Vientiane
  mailing address: American Embassy Vientiane, APO AP 96546
  telephone: [856] 21-26-7000
  FAX: [856] 21-26-7190

Latvia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Charles LARSON Jr.
  embassy: 7 Raina Boulevard, Riga LV-1510
  mailing address: American Embassy Riga, PSC 78, Box Riga, APO AE
  09723
  telephone: [371] 670-36200
  FAX: [371] 678-20047

Lebanon
  chief of mission: Ambassador Michele J. SISON
  embassy: Awkar, Lebanon; (Awkar facing the Municipality)
  mailing address: P. O. Box 70-840, Antelias, Lebanon; from US: US
  Embassy Beirut, 6070 Beirut Place, Washington, DC 20521-6070
  telephone: [961] (4) 542600, 543600
  FAX: [961] (4) 544136

Lesotho
  chief of mission: Ambassador Robert NOLAN
  embassy: 254 Kingsway, Maseru West (Consular Section)
  mailing address: P. O. Box 333, Maseru 100, Lesotho
  telephone: [266] 22 312666
  FAX: [266] 22 310116

Liberia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Linda THOMAS-GREENFIELD
  embassy: 111 United Nations Drive, P. O. Box 98, Mamba Point, 1000
  Monrovia, 10
  mailing address: use embassy street address
  telephone: [231] 7-705-4826
  FAX: [231] 7-701-0370

Libya
  chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires J.
  Christopher STEVENS
  embassy: Serraj Area, Tripoli
  mailing address: US Embassy, 8850 Tripoli Place, Washington, DC
  20521-8850
  telephone: [218] 91-220-0125

Liechtenstein
  the US does not have an embassy in Liechtenstein; the
  US Ambassador to Switzerland is accredited to Liechtenstein

Lithuania
  chief of mission: Ambassador John A. CLOUD
  embassy: Akmenu gatve 6, Vilnius, LT-03106
  mailing address: American Embassy, Akmenu Gatve 6, Vilnius LT-03106
  telephone: [370] (5) 266 5500
  FAX: [370] (5) 266 5510

Luxembourg
  chief of mission: Ambassador Ann WAGNER
  embassy: 22 Boulevard Emmanuel Servais, L-2535 Luxembourg City
  mailing address: American Embassy Luxembourg, Unit 1410, APO AE
  09126-1410 (official mail); American Embassy Luxembourg, PSC 9, Box
  9500, APO AE 09123 (personal mail)
  telephone: [352] 46 01 23
  FAX: [352] 46 14 01

Macau
  the US has no offices in Macau; US Consulate General in Hong
  Kong is accredited to Macau

Macedonia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Philip T. REEKER
  embassy: Bul. Ilindenska bb, 1000 Skopje
  mailing address: American Embassy Skopje, US Department of State,
  7120 Skopje Place, Washington, DC 20521-7120 (pouch)
  telephone: [389] 2 311-6180
  FAX: [389] 2 311-7103

Madagascar
  chief of mission: Ambassador R. Niels MARQUARDT
  embassy: 14-16 Rue Rainitovo, Antsahavola, Antananarivo 101
  mailing address: B. P. 620, Antsahavola, Antananarivo
  telephone: [261] (20) 22-212-57, 22-212-73, 22-209-56
  FAX: [261] (20) 22-345-39

Malawi
  chief of mission: Ambassador Peter W. BODDE
  embassy: 16 Jomo Kenyatta Road, Lilongwe 3
  mailing address: P. O. Box 30016, Lilongwe 3, Malawi
  telephone: [265] (1) 773 166
  FAX: [265] (1) 770 471

Malaysia
  chief of mission: Ambassador James R. KEITH
  embassy: 376 Jalan Tun Razak, 50400 Kuala Lumpur
  mailing address: US Embassy Kuala Lumpur, APO AP 96535-8152
  telephone: [60] (3) 2168-5000
  FAX: [60] (3) 2142-2207

Maldives
  the US does not have an embassy in Maldives; the US
  Ambassador to Sri Lanka is accredited to Maldives and makes periodic
  visits

Mali
  chief of mission: Ambassador Gillian A. MILOVANOVIC
  embassy: located just off the Roi Bin Fahad Aziz Bridge just west of
  the Bamako central district
  mailing address: ACI 2000, Rue 243, Porte 297, Bamako
  telephone: [223] 270-2300
  FAX: [223] 270-2479

Malta
  chief of mission: Ambassador Molly BORDONARO
  embassy: 3rd Floor, Development House, Saint Anne Street, Floriana,
  VLT 01
  mailing address: P. O. Box 535, Valletta, CMR01
  telephone: [356] 2561 4000
  FAX: [356] 21 243229

Marshall Islands
  chief of mission: Ambassador Clyde BISHOP
  embassy: Oceanside, Mejen Weto, Long Island, Majuro
  mailing address: P. O. Box 1379, Majuro, Republic of the Marshall
  Islands 96960-1379
  telephone: [692] 247-4011
  FAX: [692] 247-4012

Mauritania
  chief of mission: Ambassador Mark M. BOULWARE
  embassy: 288 Rue Abdallaye, Rue 42-100 (between Presidency building
  and Spanish Embassy), Nouakchott
  mailing address: BP 222, Nouakchott
  telephone: [222] 525-2660/525-2663
  FAX: [222] 525-1592

Mauritius
  chief of mission: Ambassador Cesar CABRERA
  embassy: 4th Floor, Rogers House, John Kennedy Street, Port Louis
  mailing address: international mail: P. O. Box 544, Port Louis; US
  mail: American Embassy, Port Louis, US Department of State,
  Washington, DC 20521-2450
  telephone: [230] 202-4400
  FAX: [230] 208-9534

Mayotte
  none (territorial overseas collectivity of France)

Mexico
  chief of mission: Ambassador Antonio O. GARZA, Jr.
  embassy: Paseo de la Reforma 305, Colonia Cuauhtemoc, 06500 Mexico,
  Distrito Federal
  mailing address: P. O. Box 9000, Brownsville, TX 78520-9000
  telephone: [52] (55) 5080-2000
  FAX: [52] (55) 5511-9980
  consulate(s) general: Ciudad Juarez, Guadalajara, Monterrey, Tijuana
  consulate(s): Hermosillo, Matamoros, Merida, Nogales, Nuevo Laredo

Micronesia, Federated States of
  chief of mission: Ambassador Miriam
  K. HUGHES
  embassy: 101 Upper Pics Road, Kolonia
  mailing address: P. O. Box 1286, Kolonia, Pohnpei, 96941
  telephone: [691] 320-2187
  FAX: [691] 320-2186

Moldova
  chief of mission: Ambassador Asif CHAUDHRY
  embassy: 103 Mateevici Street, Chisinau MD-2009
  mailing address: use embassy street address
  telephone: [373] (22) 40-8300
  FAX: [373] (22) 23-3044

Monaco
  the US does not have an embassy in Monaco; the US Ambassador
  to France is accredited to Monaco; the US Consul General in
  Marseille (France), under the authority of the US ambassador to
  France, handles routine diplomatic and consular matters concerning
  Monaco

Mongolia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Mark C. MINTON
  embassy: Big Ring Road, 11th Micro Region, Ulaanbaatar
  mailing address: PSC 461, Box 300, FPO AP 96521-0002; P.O. Box 1021,
  Ulaanbaatar-13
  telephone: [976] (11) 329-095
  FAX: [976] (11) 320-776

Montenegro
  chief of mission: Ambassador Roderick W. MOORE
  embassy: Ljubljanska bb, 81000 Podgorica, Montenegro
  mailing address: use embassy street address
  telephone: [382] 81 225 417
  FAX: [382] 81 241 358

Montserrat
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Morocco
  chief of mission: Ambassador Thomas T. RILEY
  embassy: 2 Avenue de Mohamed El Fassi, Rabat
  mailing address: PSC 74, Box 021, APO AE 09718
  telephone: [212] (37) 76 22 65
  FAX: [212] (37) 76 56 61
  consulate(s) general: Casablanca

Mozambique
  chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires
  Todd C. CHAPMAN
  embassy: Avenida Kenneth Kuanda 193, Maputo
  mailing address: P. O. Box 783, Maputo
  telephone: [258] (21) 492797
  FAX: [258] (21) 490114

Namibia
  chief of mission: Ambassador G. Dennise MATHIEU
  embassy: 14 Lossen Street, Windhoek
  mailing address: Private Bag 12029 Ausspannplatz, Windhoek
  telephone: [264] (61) 295-8500
  FAX: [264] (61) 295-8603

Nauru
  the US does not have an embassy in Nauru; the US Ambassador to
  Fiji is accredited to Nauru

Navassa Island
  none (territory of the US)

Nepal
  chief of mission: Ambassador Nancy J. POWELL
  embassy: Maharajgunj, Kathmandu
  mailing address: use embassy street address
  telephone: [977] (1) 400-7200
  FAX: [977] (1) 400-7272

Netherlands
  chief of mission: Ambassador James B. CULBERTSON
  embassy: Lange Voorhout 102, 2514 EJ, The Hague
  mailing address: PSC 71, Box 1000, APO AE 09715
  telephone: [31] (70) 310-2209
  FAX: [31] (70) 361-4688
  consulate(s) general: Amsterdam

Netherlands Antilles
  chief of mission: Consul General Robert E.
  SORENSON
  consulate(s) general: J. B. Gorsiraweg #1, Willemstad, Curacao
  mailing address: P. O. Box 158, Willemstad, Curacao
  telephone: [599] (9) 461-3066
  FAX: [599] (9) 461-6489

New Caledonia
  none (overseas territory of France)

New Zealand
  chief of mission: Ambassador William P. McCORMICK
  embassy: 29 Fitzherbert Terrace, Thorndon, Wellington
  mailing address: P. O. Box 1190, Wellington; PSC 467, Box 1, APO AP
  96531-1034
  telephone: [64] (4) 462-6000
  FAX: [64] (4) 499-0490
  consulate(s) general: Auckland

Nicaragua
  chief of mission: Ambassador Paul A. TRIVELLI
  embassy: Kilometer 5.5 Carretera Sur, Managua
  mailing address: American Embassy Managua, APO AA 34021
  telephone: [505] 252-7100, 252-7888; 252-7634 (after hours)
  FAX: [505] 252-7304

Niger
  chief of mission: Ambassador Bernadette M. ALLEN
  embassy: Rue Des Ambassades, Niamey
  mailing address: B. P. 11201, Niamey
  telephone: [227] 20-72-26-61 thru 64
  FAX: [227] 20-73-31-67

Nigeria
  chief of mission: Ambassador Robin SANDERS
  embassy: 1075 Diplomatic Drive, Central District Area, Abuja
  mailing address: P. O. Box 5760, Garki, Abuja
  telephone: [234] (9) 461-4000
  FAX: [234] (9) 461-4036

Niue
  none (self-governing territory in free association with New
  Zealand)

Norfolk Island
  none (territory of Australia)

Norway
  chief of mission: Ambassador Benson K. WHITNEY
  embassy: Henrik Ibsens gate 48, 0244 Oslo; note - the embassy will
  move to Huseby in the near future
  mailing address: PSC 69, Box 1000, APO AE 09707
  telephone: [47] (22) 44 85 50
  FAX: [47] (22) 44 33 63, 56 27 51

Oman
  chief of mission: Ambassador Gary A. GRAPPO
  embassy: Jameat A'Duwal Al Arabiya Street, Al Khuwair area, Muscat
  mailing address: P. O. Box 202, P.C. 115, Madinat Sultan Qaboos,
  Muscat
  telephone: [968] 24-643-400
  FAX: [968] 24-699771

Pakistan
  chief of mission: Ambassador Anne W. PATTERSON
  embassy: Diplomatic Enclave, Ramna 5, Islamabad
  mailing address: P. O. Box 1048, Unit 62200, APO AE 09812-2200
  telephone: [92] (51) 208-0000
  FAX: [92] (51) 2276427
  consulate(s) general: Karachi
  consulate(s): Lahore, Peshawar

Palau
  chief of mission: Charge d'Affaires Mark BEZNER
  embassy: Koror (no street address)
  mailing address: P. O. Box 6028, Republic of Palau 96940
  telephone: [680] 488-2920, 2990
  FAX: [680] 488-2911

Panama
  chief of mission: Ambassador William A. EATON
  embassy: Edificio 783, Avenida Demetrio Basilio Lakas Panama,
  Apartado Postal 0816-02561, Zona 5, Panama City
  mailing address: American Embassy Panama, Unit 0945, APO AA 34002
  telephone: [507] 207-7000
  FAX: [507] 317-5568

Papua New Guinea
  chief of mission: Ambassador Leslie V. ROWE
  embassy: Douglas Street, Port Moresby, N.C.D.
  mailing address: 4240 Port Moresby PI, US Department of State,
  Washington DC 20521-4240
  telephone: [675] 321-1455
  FAX: [675] 321-3423

Paraguay
  Ambassador Liliana AYALDE
  embassy: 1776 Avenida Mariscal Lopez, Casilla Postal 402, Asuncion
  mailing address: Unit 4711, APO AA 34036-0001
  telephone: [595] (21) 213-715
  FAX: [595] (21) 228-603

Peru
  chief of mission: Ambassador P. Michael MCKINLEY
  embassy: Avenida La Encalada, Cuadra 17s/n, Surco, Lima 33
  mailing address: P. O. Box 1995, Lima 1; American Embassy (Lima),
  APO AA 34031-5000
  telephone: [51] (1) 434-3000
  FAX: [51] (1) 618-2397

Philippines
  chief of mission: Ambassador Kristie A. KENNEY
  embassy: 1201 Roxas Boulevard, Ermita 1000, Manila
  mailing address: PSC 500, FPO AP 96515-1000
  telephone: [63] (2) 301-2000
  FAX: [63] (2) 301-2399

Pitcairn Islands
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Poland
  chief of mission: Ambassador Victor ASHE
  embassy: Aleje Ujazdowskie 29/31 00-540 Warsaw
  mailing address: American Embassy Warsaw, US Department of State,
  Washington, DC 20521-5010 (pouch)
  telephone: [48] (22) 504-2000
  FAX: [48] (22) 504-2688
  consulate(s) general: Krakow

Portugal
  chief of mission: Ambassador Thomas F. STEPHENSON
  embassy: Avenida das Forcas Armadas, 1600-081 Lisbon
  mailing address: Apartado 43033, 1601-301 Lisboa; PSC 83, APO AE
  09726
  telephone: [351] (21) 727-3300
  FAX: [351] (21) 726-9109
  consulate(s): Ponta Delgada (Azores)

Puerto Rico
  none (territory of the US with commonwealth status)

Qatar
  chief of mission: Ambassador Joseph E. LEBARON
  embassy: Al-Luqta District, 22 February Road, Doha
  mailing address: P. O. Box 2399, Doha
  telephone: [974] 488 4161
  FAX: [974] 488 4150

Romania
  chief of mission: Ambassador Nicholas F. TAUBMAN
  embassy: Strada Tudor Arghezi 7-9, Bucharest
  mailing address: pouch: American Embassy Bucharest, US Department of
  State, 5260 Bucharest Place, Washington, DC 20521-5260 (pouch)
  telephone: [40] (21) 200-3300
  FAX: [40] (21) 200-3442

Russia
  chief of mission: Ambassador John R. BEYRLE
  embassy: Bolshoy Deviatinskiy Pereulok No. 8, 121099 Moscow
  mailing address: PSC-77, APO AE 09721
  telephone: [7] (495) 728-5000
  FAX: [7] (495) 728-5090
  consulate(s) general: Saint Petersburg, Vladivostok, Yekaterinburg

Rwanda
  chief of mission: Ambassador W. Stuart SYMINGTON
  embassy: 2657 Avenue de la Gendarmerie, Kigali
  mailing address: B. P. 28, Kigali
  telephone: [250] 596-400
  FAX: [250] 596-591

Saint Barthelemy
  none (overseas collectivity of France)

Saint Helena
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  the US does not have an embassy in Saint Kitts
  and Nevis; the US Ambassador to Barbados is accredited to Saint
  Kitts and Nevis

Saint Lucia
  the US does not have an embassy in Saint Lucia; the US
  Ambassador to Barbados is accredited to Saint Lucia

Saint Martin
  none (overseas collectivity of France)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  none (territorial overseas collectivity of
  France)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  the US does not have an embassy in
  Saint Vincent and the Grenadines; the US Ambassador to Barbados is
  accredited to Saint Vincent and the Grenadines

Samoa
  chief of mission: none; US Ambassador to New Zealand is
  accredited to Samoa
  embassy: Accident Corporation Building, 5th Floor, Matafele, Apia
  mailing address: P. O. Box 3430, Matafele, Apia
  telephone: [685] 21436/21631/21452/22696
  FAX: [685] 22030

San Marino
  the US does not have an embassy in San Marino; the
  ambassador to Italy is accredited to San Marino

Sao Tome and Principe
  the US does not have an embassy in Sao Tome
  and Principe; the Ambassador to Gabon is accredited to Sao Tome and
  Principe on a nonresident basis and makes periodic visits to the
  islands

Saudi Arabia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Ford M. FRAKER
  embassy: Collector Road M, Diplomatic Quarter, Riyadh
  mailing address: American Embassy, Unit 61307, APO AE 09803-1307;
  International Mail: P. O. Box 94309, Riyadh 11693
  telephone: [966] (1) 488-3800
  FAX: [966] (1) 488-7360
  consulate(s) general: Dhahran, Jiddah (Jeddah)

Senegal
  chief of mission: Ambassador Marcia S. BERNICAT
  embassy: Avenue Jean XXIII at the corner of Rue Kleber, Dakar
  mailing address: B. P. 49, Dakar
  telephone: [221] 33-829-2100
  FAX: [221] 33-822-2991

Serbia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Cameron MUNTER
  embassy: Kneza Milosa 50, 11000 Belgrade
  mailing address: 5070 Belgrade Place, Washington, DC 20521-5070
  telephone: [381] (11) 361-9344
  FAX: [381] (11) 361-8230

Seychelles
  the US does not have an embassy in Seychelles; the
  ambassador to Mauritius is accredited to Seychelles

Sierra Leone
  chief of mission: Ambassador June Carter PERRY
  embassy: Southridge-Hill Station, Freetown
  mailing address: use embassy street address
  telephone: [232] (22) 515 000 or [232] (76) 515 000
  FAX: [232] (22) 515 355

Singapore
  chief of mission: Ambassador Patricia L. HERBOLD
  embassy: 27 Napier Road, Singapore 258508
  mailing address: FPO AP 96507-0001
  telephone: [65] 6476-9100
  FAX: [65] 6476-9340

Slovakia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Vincent OBSITNIK
  embassy: Hviezdoslavovo Namestie 4, 81102 Bratislava
  mailing address: P.O. Box 309, 814 99 Bratislava
  telephone: [421] (2) 5443-3338
  FAX: [421] (2) 5441-8861

Slovenia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Yousif B. GHAFARI
  embassy: Presernova 31, 1000 Ljubljana
  mailing address: American Embassy Ljubljana, US Department of State,
  7140 Ljubljana Place, Washington, DC 20521-7140
  telephone: [386] (1) 200-5500
  FAX: [386] (1) 200-5555

Solomon Islands
  the US does not have an embassy in Solomon Islands
  (embassy closed July 1993); the ambassador to Papua New Guinea is
  accredited to the Solomon Islands

Somalia
  the US does not have an embassy in Somalia; US interests are
  represented by the US Embassy in Nairobi, Kenya at United Nations
  Avenue, Nairobi; mailing address: Unit 64100, Nairobi; APO AE 09831;
  telephone: [254] (20) 363-6000; FAX [254] (20) 363-6157

South Africa
  chief of mission: Ambassador Eric BOST
  embassy: 877 Pretorius Street, Pretoria
  mailing address: P. O. Box 9536, Pretoria 0001
  telephone: [27] (12) 431-4000
  FAX: [27] (12) 342-2299
  consulate(s) general: Cape Town, Durban, Johannesburg

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  none (overseas
  territory of the UK, also claimed by Argentina)

Spain
  chief of mission: Ambassador Eduardo AGUIRRE, Jr.
  embassy: Serrano 75, 28006 Madrid
  mailing address: PSC 61, APO AE 09642
  telephone: [34] (91) 587-2200
  FAX: [34] (91) 587-2303
  consulate(s) general: Barcelona

Sri Lanka
  chief of mission: Ambassador Robert O. BLAKE, Jr.
  embassy: 210 Galle Road, Colombo 3
  mailing address: P. O. Box 106, Colombo
  telephone: [94] (11) 249-8500
  FAX: [94] (11) 243-7345

Sudan
  chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires
  Alberto M. FERNANDEZ
  embassy: Sharia Ali Abdul Latif Street, Khartoum
  mailing address: P. O. Box 699, Khartoum; APO AE 09829
  telephone: [249] (183) 774701/2/3
  FAX: [249] (183) 774137

Suriname
  chief of mission: Ambassador Lisa Bobbie SCHREIBER HUGHES
  embassy: Dr. Sophie Redmondstraat 129, Paramaribo
  mailing address: US Department of State, PO Box 1821, Paramaribo
  telephone: [597] 472-900
  FAX: [597] 410-025

Swaziland
  chief of mission: Ambassador Maurice S. PARKER
  embassy: 2350 Mbabane Place, Mbabane
  mailing address: P. O. Box 199, Mbabane
  telephone: [268] 404-2445
  FAX: [268] 404-2059

Sweden
  chief of mission: Ambassador Michael M. WOOD
  embassy: Dag Hammarskjolds Vag 31, SE-11589 Stockholm
  mailing address: American Embassy Stockholm, US Department of State,
  5750 Stockholm Place, Washington, DC 20521-5750
  telephone: [46] (08) 783 53 00
  FAX: [46] (08) 661 19 64

Switzerland
  chief of mission: Ambassador Peter R. CONEWAY
  embassy: Sulgeneckstrasse 19, CH-3007 Bern
  mailing address: use embassy street address
  telephone: [41] (031) 357 70 11
  FAX: [41] (031) 357 73 44

Syria
  chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Maura
  CONNELLY
  embassy: Abou Roumaneh, Al-Mansour Street, No. 2, Damascus
  mailing address: P. O. Box 29, Damascus
  telephone: [963] (11) 3391-4444
  FAX: [963] (11) 3391-3999

Taiwan
  none; unofficial commercial and cultural relations with the
  people on Taiwan are maintained through an unofficial
  instrumentality - the American Institute in Taiwan (AIT) - which has
  offices in the US and Taiwan; US office at 1700 N. Moore St., Suite
  1700, Arlington, VA 22209-1996, telephone: [1] (703) 525-8474, FAX:
  [1] (703) 841-1385); Taiwan offices at #7 Lane 134, Hsin Yi Road,
  Section 3, Taipei, Taiwan, telephone: [886] (2) 2162-2000, FAX:
  [886] (2) 2162-2251; #2 Chung Cheng 3rd Road, 5th Floor, Kaohsiung,
  Taiwan, telephone: [886] (7) 238-7744, FAX: [886] (7) 238-5237; and
  the American Trade Center, Room 3208 International Trade Building,
  Taipei World Trade Center, 333 Keelung Road Section 1, Taipei,
  Taiwan 10548, telephone: [886] (2) 2720-1550, FAX: [886] (2)
  2757-7162

Tajikistan
  chief of mission: Ambassador Tracey Ann JACOBSON
  embassy: 109-A Ismoili Somoni Avenue, Dushanbe 734019
  mailing address: 7090 Dushanbe Place, Dulles, VA 20189
  telephone: [992] (37) 229-20-00
  FAX: [992] (37) 229-20-50

Tanzania
  chief of mission: Ambassador Mark GREEN
  embassy: 686 Old Bagamoyo Road, Msasani, Dar es Salaam
  mailing address: P. O. Box 9123, Dar es Salaam
  telephone: [255] (22) 266-8001
  FAX: [255] (22) 266-8238, 266-8373

Thailand
  chief of mission: Ambassador Eric G. JOHN
  embassy: 120-122 Wireless Road, Bangkok 10330
  mailing address: APO AP 96546
  telephone: [66] (2) 205-4000
  FAX: [66] (2) 254-2990, 205-4131
  consulate(s) general: Chiang Mai

Timor-Leste
  chief of mission: Ambassador Hans G. KLEMM
  embassy: Avenida de Portugal, Praia dos Conqueiros, Dili
  mailing address: US Department of State, 8250 Dili Place,
  Washington, DC 20521-8250
  telephone: (670) 332-4684
  FAX: (670) 331-3206

Togo
  chief of mission: Ambassador Patricia McMahon HAWKINS
  embassy: 4332 Blvd. Gnassingbe Eyadema, Cite OUA, Lome
  mailing address: B. P. 852, Lome; 2300 Lome Place, Washington, DC
  20512-2300
  telephone: [228] 261-5470
  FAX: [228] 261-5501

Tokelau
  none (territory of New Zealand)

Tonga
  the US does not have an embassy in Tonga; the ambassador to
  Fiji is accredited to Tonga

Trinidad and Tobago
  chief of mission: Ambassador Roy L. AUSTIN
  embassy: 15 Queen's Park West, Port-of-Spain
  mailing address: P. O. Box 752, Port-of-Spain
  telephone: [1] (868) 622-6371 through 6376
  FAX: [1] (868) 822-5905

Tunisia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Robert F. GODEC
  embassy: Zone Nord-Est des Berges du Lac Nord de Tunis 1053
  mailing address: use embassy street address
  telephone: [216] 71 107-000
  FAX: [216] 71 963-263

Turkey
  chief of mission: Ambassador Ross WILSON
  embassy: 110 Ataturk Boulevard, Kavaklidere, 06100 Ankara
  mailing address: PSC 93, Box 5000, APO AE 09823
  telephone: [90] (312) 455-5555
  FAX: [90] (312) 467-0019
  consulate(s) general: Istanbul
  consulate(s): Adana; note - there is a Consular Agent in Izmir

Turkmenistan
  chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge
  d'Affaires Richard M. MILES
  embassy: No. 9 1984 Street (formerly Pushkin Street), Ashgabat,
  Turkmenistan 744000
  mailing address: 7070 Ashgabat Place, Washington, DC 20521-7070
  telephone: [993] (12) 35-00-45
  FAX: [993] (12) 39-26-14

Turks and Caicos Islands
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Tuvalu
  the US does not have an embassy in Tuvalu; the US ambassador
  to Fiji is accredited to Tuvalu

Uganda
  chief of mission: Ambassador Steven BROWNING
  embassy: 1577 Ggaba Road, Kampala
  mailing address: P. O. Box 7007, Kampala
  telephone: [256] (414) 259, 306-001
  FAX: [256] (414) 258-451

Ukraine
  chief of mission: Ambassador William B. TAYLOR Jr.
  embassy: 10 Yurii Kotsiubynsky Street, 01901 Kyiv
  mailing address: 5850 Kiev Place, Washington, DC 20521-5850
  telephone: [380] (44) 490-4000
  FAX: [380] (44) 490-4085

United Arab Emirates
  chief of mission: Ambassador Richard OLSON
  embassy: Embassies District, Plot 38 Sector W59-02, Street No. 4,
  Abu Dhabi
  mailing address: P. O. Box 4009, Abu Dhabi
  telephone: [971] (2) 414-2200
  FAX: [971] (2) 414-2603
  consulate(s) general: Dubai

United Kingdom
  chief of mission: Ambassador Robert Holmes TUTTLE
  embassy: 24 Grosvenor Square, London, W1A 1AE
  mailing address: PSC 801, Box 40, FPO AE 09498-4040
  telephone: [44] (0) 20 7499-9000
  FAX: [44] (0) 20 7629-9124
  consulate(s) general: Belfast, Edinburgh

United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
  none (territories of
  the US)

Uruguay
  chief of mission: Ambassador Frank E. BAXTER
  embassy: Lauro Muller 1776, Montevideo 11200
  mailing address: APO AA 34035
  telephone: [598] (2) 418-7777
  FAX: [598] (2) 418-8611

Uzbekistan
  chief of mission: Ambassador Richard B. NORLAND
  embassy: 3 Moyqo'rq'on, 5th Block, Yunusobod District, Tashkent
  100093
  mailing address: use embassy street address
  telephone: [998] (71) 120-5450
  FAX: [998] (71) 120-6335

Vanuatu
  the US does not have an embassy in Vanuatu; the ambassador
  to Papua New Guinea is accredited to Vanuatu

Venezuela
  chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires
  John CAULFIELD
  embassy: Calle F con Calle Suapure, Urbanizacion Colinas de Valle
  Arriba, Caracas 1080
  mailing address: P. O. Box 62291, Caracas 1060-A; APO AA 34037
  telephone: [58] (212) 975-6411, 907-8400 (after hours)
  FAX: [58] (212) 907-8199

Vietnam
  chief of mission: Ambassador Michael W. MICHALAK
  embassy: 7 Lang Ha Street, Ba Dinh District, Hanoi
  mailing address: PSC 461, Box 400, FPO AP 96521-0002
  telephone: [84] (4) 3850-5000
  FAX: [84] (4) 3850-5010
  consulate(s) general: Ho Chi Minh City

Virgin Islands
  none (territory of the US)

Wallis and Futuna
  none (overseas territory of France)

Western Sahara
  none

Yemen
  chief of mission: Ambassador Stephen A. SECHE
  embassy: Sa'awan Street, Sanaa
  mailing address: P. O. Box 22347, Sanaa
  telephone: [967] (1) 755-2000 ext. 2153 or 2266
  FAX: [967] (1) 303-182

Zambia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Donald E. BOOTH
  embassy: corner of Independence and United Nations Avenues, Lusaka
  mailing address: P. O. Box 31617, Lusaka
  telephone: [260] (211) 250-955
  FAX: [260] (211) 252-225

Zimbabwe
  chief of mission: Ambassador James D. MCGEE
  embassy: 172 Herbert Chitepo Avenue, Harare
  mailing address: P. O. Box 3340, Harare
  telephone: [263] (4) 250-593 and 250-594
  FAX: [263] (4) 796-488, or 722-618

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2008  Transportation - note


Arctic Ocean
  sparse network of air, ocean, river, and land routes;
  the Northwest Passage (North America) and Northern Sea Route
  (Eurasia) are important seasonal waterways

Atlantic Ocean
  Kiel Canal and Saint Lawrence Seaway are two
  important waterways; significant domestic commercial and
  recreational use of Intracoastal Waterway on central and south
  Atlantic seaboard and Gulf of Mexico coast of US; the International
  Maritime Bureau reports the territorial waters of littoral states
  and offshore Atlantic waters as high risk for piracy and armed
  robbery against ships, particularly in the Gulf of Guinea off West
  Africa, the east coast of Brazil, and the Caribbean Sea; numerous
  commercial vessels have been attacked and hijacked both at anchor
  and while underway; hijacked vessels are often disguised and cargoes
  stolen; crews have been robbed and stores or cargoes stolen

Bangladesh
  the International Maritime Bureau reports the territorial
  waters of Bangladesh as high risk for armed robbery against ships;
  numerous commercial vessels have been attacked both at anchor and
  while underway; crews have been robbed and stores or cargoes stolen

Brazil
  the International Maritime Bureau reports the territorial and
  offshore waters in the Atlantic Ocean as a significant risk for
  piracy and armed robbery against ships; numerous commercial vessels
  have been attacked and hijacked both at anchor and while underway;
  crews have been robbed and stores or cargoes stolen

Djibouti
  the International Maritime Bureau reports offshore waters
  in the Gulf of Aden are high risk for piracy; numerous vessels,
  including commercial shipping and pleasure craft, have been attacked
  and hijacked both at anchor and while underway; crew, passengers,
  and cargo are held for ransom

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  aids to navigation -
  lighthouses: Europa Island 18m; Juan de Nova Island (W side) 37m;
  Tromelin Island (NW point) 11m (all in the Iles Eparses district)

Georgia
  large parts of transportation network are in poor condition
  because of lack of maintenance and repair

Indian Ocean
  the International Maritime Bureau reports the
  territorial waters of littoral states and offshore waters as high
  risk for piracy and armed robbery against ships, particularly in the
  Gulf of Aden, along the east coast of Africa, the Bay of Bengal, and
  the Strait of Malacca; numerous vessels, including commercial
  shipping and pleasure craft, have been attacked and hijacked both at
  anchor and while underway; hijacked vessels are often disguised and
  cargoes stolen; crew and passengers are often held for ransom,
  murdered, or cast adrift

Indonesia
  the International Maritime Bureau reports the territorial
  and offshore waters in the Strait of Malacca and South China Sea as
  high risk for piracy and armed robbery against ships; numerous
  commercial vessels have been attacked and hijacked both at anchor
  and while underway; hijacked vessels are often disguised and cargo
  diverted to ports in East Asia; crews have been murdered or cast
  adrift

Malaysia
  the International Maritime Bureau reports the territorial
  and offshore waters in the Strait of Malacca and South China Sea as
  high risk for piracy and armed robbery against ships; numerous
  commercial vessels have been attacked and hijacked both at anchor
  and while underway; hijacked vessels are often disguised and cargo
  diverted to ports in East Asia; crews have been murdered or cast
  adrift

Nigeria
  the International Maritime Bureau reports the territorial
  and offshore waters in the Niger Delta and Gulf of Guinea as high
  risk for piracy and armed robbery against ships; numerous commercial
  vessels have been attacked and hijacked both at anchor and while
  underway; crews have been robbed and stores or cargoes stolen

Pacific Ocean
  Inside Passage offers protected waters from southeast
  Alaska to Puget Sound (Washington state); the International Maritime
  Bureau reports the territorial waters of littoral states and
  offshore waters in the South China Sea as high risk for piracy and
  armed robbery against ships; numerous commercial vessels have been
  attacked and hijacked both at anchor and while underway; hijacked
  vessels are often disguised and cargoes stolen; crew and passengers
  are often held for ransom, murdered, or cast adrift

Philippines
  the International Maritime Bureau reports the
  territorial and offshore waters in the South China Sea as high risk
  for piracy and armed robbery against ships; numerous commercial
  vessels have been attacked and hijacked both at anchor and while
  underway; hijacked vessels are often disguised and cargo diverted to
  ports in East Asia; crews have been murdered or cast adrift

Saint Barthelemy
  nearest airport for international flights is
  Princess Juliana International Airport (SXM) located in Sint Maarten
  (Netherlands Antilles)

Saint Helena
  there is no air connection to Saint Helena or Tristan
  da Cunha; an international airport for Saint Helena is in
  development for 2010

Saint Martin
  nearest airport for international flights is Princess
  Juliana International Airport (SXM) located in Sint Maarten

Singapore
  the International Maritime Bureau reports the territorial
  and offshore waters in the South China Sea as high risk for piracy
  and armed robbery against ships; numerous commercial vessels have
  been attacked and hijacked both at anchor and while underway;
  hijacked vessels are often disguised and cargo diverted to ports in
  East Asia; crews have been murdered or cast adrift

Somalia
  the International Maritime Bureau reports the territorial
  and offshore waters in the Gulf of Aden and Indian Ocean are high
  risk for piracy and armed robbery against ships; numerous vessels,
  including commercial shipping and pleasure craft, have been attacked
  and hijacked both at anchor and while underway; crew, passengers,
  and cargo are held for ransom

Southern Ocean
  Drake Passage offers alternative to transit through
  the Panama Canal

Tanzania
  the International Maritime Bureau reports the territorial
  and offshore waters in the Indian Ocean are high risk for piracy and
  armed robbery against ships; numerous commercial vessels have been
  attacked and hijacked both at anchor and while underway; crews have
  been robbed and stores or cargoes stolen

Venezuela
  the International Maritime Bureau reports the territorial
  and offshore waters in the Caribbean Sea as a significant risk for
  piracy and armed robbery against ships; numerous vessels, including
  commercial shipping and pleasure craft, have been attacked and
  hijacked both at anchor and while underway; crews have been robbed
  and stores or cargoes stolen

Vietnam
  the International Maritime Bureau reports the territorial
  and offshore waters in the South China Sea as high risk for piracy
  and armed robbery against ships; numerous commercial vessels have
  been attacked and hijacked both at anchor and while underway;
  hijacked vessels are often disguised and cargo diverted to ports in
  East Asia; crews have been murdered or cast adrift

Wake Island
  there are no commercial or civilian flights to and from
  Wake Island, except in direct support of island missions; emergency
  landing is available

Yemen
  the International Maritime Bureau reports offshore waters in
  the Gulf of Aden are high risk for piracy; numerous vessels,
  including commercial shipping and pleasure craft, have been attacked
  and hijacked both at anchor and while underway; crew, passengers,
  and cargo are held for ransom

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2010  Age structure (%)


Afghanistan
  0-14 years: 44.6% (male 7,474,394/female 7,121,145)
  15-64 years: 53% (male 8,901,880/female 8,447,983)
  65 years and over: 2.4% (male 383,830/female 409,144) (2008 est.)

Albania
  0-14 years: 23.6% (male 447,126/female 406,757)
  15-64 years: 66.9% (male 1,239,819/female 1,180,720)
  65 years and over: 9.5% (male 160,241/female 185,115) (2008 est.)

Algeria
  0-14 years: 26.3% (male 4,528,919/female 4,349,746)
  15-64 years: 68.7% (male 11,699,701/female 11,509,619)
  65 years and over: 5% (male 779,467/female 902,217) (2008 est.)

American Samoa
  0-14 years: 34.4% (male 11,337/female 10,946)
  15-64 years: 61.8% (male 20,335/female 19,728)
  65 years and over: 3.8% (male 1,161/female 1,320) (2008 est.)

Andorra
  0-14 years: 15.5% (male 6,606/female 6,192)
  15-64 years: 72.5% (male 31,313/female 28,563)
  65 years and over: 12% (male 4,906/female 5,047) (2008 est.)

Angola
  0-14 years: 43.6% (male 2,760,264/female 2,707,665)
  15-64 years: 53.6% (male 3,416,914/female 3,302,552)
  65 years and over: 2.7% (male 151,609/female 192,353) (2008 est.)

Anguilla
  0-14 years: 24.8% (male 1,795/female 1,706)
  15-64 years: 67.6% (male 4,569/female 4,970)
  65 years and over: 7.6% (male 510/female 558) (2008 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  0-14 years: 27.2% (male 11,670/female 11,318)
  15-64 years: 66.3% (male 26,138/female 29,859)
  65 years and over: 6.6% (male 2,408/female 3,129) (2008 est.)

Argentina
  0-14 years: 25.8% (male 5,341,642/female 5,095,325)
  15-64 years: 63.5% (male 12,807,458/female 12,884,745)
  65 years and over: 10.8% (male 1,784,652/female 2,568,176) (2008
  est.)

Armenia
  0-14 years: 18.7% (male 296,401/female 259,594)
  15-64 years: 70.3% (male 975,438/female 1,111,989)
  65 years and over: 11% (male 128,398/female 196,766) (2008 est.)

Aruba
  0-14 years: 19.4% (male 9,933/female 9,747)
  15-64 years: 70.3% (male 34,123/female 37,228)
  65 years and over: 10.4% (male 4,189/female 6,321) (2008 est.)

Australia
  0-14 years: 18.8% (male 2,022,151/female 1,919,002)
  15-64 years: 67.9% (male 7,233,555/female 7,038,722)
  65 years and over: 13.3% (male 1,266,166/female 1,527,714) (2008
  est.)

Austria
  0-14 years: 14.8% (male 621,326/female 592,131)
  15-64 years: 67.5% (male 2,783,531/female 2,753,389)
  65 years and over: 17.7% (male 599,415/female 855,741) (2008 est.)

Azerbaijan
  0-14 years: 24.6% (male 1,061,318/female 947,607)
  15-64 years: 68.6% (male 2,753,277/female 2,855,406)
  65 years and over: 6.8% (male 208,293/female 351,816) (2008 est.)

Bahamas, The
  0-14 years: 26.4% (male 40,608/female 40,506)
  15-64 years: 66.9% (male 101,150/female 104,457)
  65 years and over: 6.7% (male 8,472/female 12,258) (2008 est.)

Bahrain
  0-14 years: 26.4% (male 95,709/female 93,747)
  15-64 years: 69.8% (male 288,957/female 212,706)
  65 years and over: 3.8% (male 14,224/female 12,963) (2008 est.)

Bangladesh
  0-14 years: 33.4% (male 26,364,370/female 24,859,792)
  15-64 years: 63.1% (male 49,412,903/female 47,468,013)
  65 years and over: 3.5% (male 2,912,321/female 2,529,502) (2008 est.)

Barbados
  0-14 years: 19.3% (male 27,270/female 27,193)
  15-64 years: 71.7% (male 99,357/female 102,683)
  65 years and over: 9% (male 9,856/female 15,609) (2008 est.)

Belarus
  0-14 years: 14.4% (male 717,885/female 677,254)
  15-64 years: 70.9% (male 3,333,699/female 3,531,920)
  65 years and over: 14.7% (male 459,627/female 965,383) (2008 est.)

Belgium
  0-14 years: 16.3% (male 864,287/female 828,435)
  15-64 years: 66.3% (male 3,476,802/female 3,416,383)
  65 years and over: 17.5% (male 751,745/female 1,066,299) (2008 est.)

Belize
  0-14 years: 38.4% (male 58,987/female 56,674)
  15-64 years: 58.1% (male 88,521/female 86,450)
  65 years and over: 3.5% (male 5,095/female 5,543) (2008 est.)

Benin
  0-14 years: 45.5% (male 1,978,897/female 1,901,005)
  15-64 years: 51.9% (male 2,195,667/female 2,236,458)
  65 years and over: 2.6% (male 91,213/female 129,307) (2008 est.)

Bermuda
  0-14 years: 18% (male 6,055/female 5,954)
  15-64 years: 69.1% (male 22,795/female 23,189)
  65 years and over: 12.8% (male 3,728/female 4,815) (2008 est.)

Bhutan
  0-14 years: 30.8% (male 107,360/female 103,093)
  15-64 years: 63.7% (male 231,323/female 203,649)
  65 years and over: 5.4% (male 19,561/female 17,335) (2008 est.)

Bolivia
  0-14 years: 33.5% (male 1,580,887/female 1,519,960)
  15-64 years: 61.8% (male 2,800,457/female 2,912,375)
  65 years and over: 4.7% (male 192,701/female 241,436) (2008 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  0-14 years: 14.7% (male 347,679/female
  326,091)
  15-64 years: 70.6% (male 1,634,053/female 1,606,341)
  65 years and over: 14.7% (male 277,504/female 398,642) (2008 est.)

Botswana
  0-14 years: 35.2% (male 329,418/female 318,160)
  15-64 years: 60.9% (male 566,239/female 556,286)
  65 years and over: 3.9% (male 29,165/female 43,055) (2008 est.)

Brazil
  0-14 years: 27% (male 26,986,909/female 25,961,947)
  15-64 years: 66.8% (male 64,939,225/female 66,157,812)
  65 years and over: 6.3% (male 5,182,987/female 7,113,707) (2008 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  0-14 years: 20% (male 2,432/female 2,366)
  15-64 years: 74.4% (male 9,178/female 8,715)
  65 years and over: 5.6% (male 697/female 653) (2008 est.)

Brunei
  0-14 years: 27.2% (male 53,400/female 50,333)
  15-64 years: 69.6% (male 132,895/female 132,391)
  65 years and over: 3.2% (male 5,927/female 6,425) (2008 est.)

Bulgaria
  0-14 years: 13.8% (male 514,238/female 489,608)
  15-64 years: 68.6% (male 2,449,812/female 2,532,845)
  65 years and over: 17.6% (male 520,962/female 755,210) (2008 est.)

Burkina Faso
  0-14 years: 46.3% (male 3,549,034/female 3,521,684)
  15-64 years: 51.1% (male 3,885,124/female 3,922,198)
  65 years and over: 2.5% (male 154,476/female 232,219) (2008 est.)

Burma
  0-14 years: 25.7% (male 6,236,484/female 6,038,576)
  15-64 years: 68.9% (male 16,300,380/female 16,627,045)
  65 years and over: 5.4% (male 1,098,344/female 1,457,352) (2008 est.)

Burundi
  0-14 years: 46.3% (male 2,021,320/female 1,998,502)
  15-64 years: 51.2% (male 2,210,157/female 2,240,921)
  65 years and over: 2.5% (male 87,600/female 132,505) (2008 est.)

Cambodia
  0-14 years: 33.2% (male 2,389,668/female 2,338,838)
  15-64 years: 63.2% (male 4,372,480/female 4,627,895)
  65 years and over: 3.6% (male 193,338/female 319,421) (2008 est.)

Cameroon
  0-14 years: 41.1% (male 3,826,232/female 3,757,859)
  15-64 years: 55.7% (male 5,164,338/female 5,122,817)
  65 years and over: 3.2% (male 274,821/female 321,625) (2008 est.)

Canada
  0-14 years: 16.3% (male 2,780,491/female 2,644,276)
  15-64 years: 68.8% (male 11,547,354/female 11,300,639)
  65 years and over: 14.9% (male 2,150,991/female 2,788,945) (2008
  est.)

Cape Verde
  0-14 years: 36.1% (male 77,533/female 76,489)
  15-64 years: 57.4% (male 120,208/female 125,009)
  65 years and over: 6.5% (male 10,226/female 17,533) (2008 est.)

Cayman Islands
  0-14 years: 19.9% (male 4,774/female 4,759)
  15-64 years: 71.1% (male 16,594/female 17,434)
  65 years and over: 9% (male 2,022/female 2,279) (2008 est.)

Central African Republic
  0-14 years: 41.3% (male 922,053/female
  911,601)
  15-64 years: 54.6% (male 1,206,121/female 1,221,158)
  65 years and over: 4.1% (male 71,597/female 111,800) (2008 est.)

Chad
  0-14 years: 47% (male 2,408,638/female 2,346,984)
  15-64 years: 50.1% (male 2,317,406/female 2,746,104)
  65 years and over: 2.9% (male 123,561/female 168,644) (2008 est.)

Chile
  0-14 years: 23.6% (male 1,987,962/female 1,899,489)
  15-64 years: 67.6% (male 5,556,867/female 5,563,666)
  65 years and over: 8.8% (male 602,789/female 843,370) (2008 est.)

China
  0-14 years: 20.1% (male 142,085,665/female 125,300,391)
  15-64 years: 71.9% (male 491,513,378/female 465,020,030)
  65 years and over: 8% (male 50,652,480/female 55,472,661) (2008 est.)

Christmas Island
  0-14 years: NA
  15-64 years: NA
  65 years and over: NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  0-14 years: NA
  15-64 years: NA
  65 years and over: NA

Colombia
  0-14 years: 29.4% (male 6,688,530/female 6,531,768)
  15-64 years: 65.1% (male 14,292,647/female 15,017,204)
  65 years and over: 5.5% (male 1,072,644/female 1,410,881) (2008 est.)

Comoros
  0-14 years: 42.4% (male 155,662/female 154,520)
  15-64 years: 54.6% (male 197,178/female 202,231)
  65 years and over: 3% (male 10,203/female 11,981) (2008 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  0-14 years: 47.1% (male
  15,711,817/female 15,594,449)
  15-64 years: 50.4% (male 16,672,399/female 16,875,468)
  65 years and over: 2.5% (male 674,766/female 985,607) (2008 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  0-14 years: 46.1% (male 906,345/female
  894,568)
  15-64 years: 51% (male 989,126/female 1,002,682)
  65 years and over: 2.8% (male 45,560/female 65,037) (2008 est.)

Cook Islands
  0-14 years: (male 1,834/female 1,624)
  15-64 years: (male 3,973/female 3,747)
  65 years and over: (male 542/female 551)

Costa Rica
  0-14 years: 27.2% (male 584,782/female 557,952)
  15-64 years: 66.8% (male 1,416,456/female 1,384,692)
  65 years and over: 6% (male 116,461/female 135,571) (2008 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  0-14 years: 40.9% (male 4,161,238/female 4,092,593)
  15-64 years: 56.3% (male 5,790,503/female 5,568,621)
  65 years and over: 2.8% (male 285,116/female 281,531) (2008 est.)

Croatia
  0-14 years: 15.8% (male 363,551/female 345,132)
  15-64 years: 67.2% (male 1,501,949/female 1,517,962)
  65 years and over: 17% (male 295,229/female 467,720) (2008 est.)

Cuba
  0-14 years: 18.5% (male 1,088,311/female 1,030,499)
  15-64 years: 70.5% (male 4,029,381/female 4,025,154)
  65 years and over: 10.9% (male 569,002/female 681,605) (2008 est.)

Cyprus
  0-14 years: 19.5% (male 78,922/female 75,523)
  15-64 years: 68.5% (male 275,223/female 267,798)
  65 years and over: 12% (male 41,592/female 53,546) (2008 est.)

Czech Republic
  0-14 years: 13.8% (male 723,521/female 684,786)
  15-64 years: 71.2% (male 3,653,679/female 3,619,872)
  65 years and over: 15.1% (male 604,419/female 934,634) (2008 est.)

Denmark
  0-14 years: 18.4% (male 516,735/female 490,532)
  15-64 years: 65.9% (male 1,818,681/female 1,796,753)
  65 years and over: 15.7% (male 374,388/female 487,634) (2008 est.)

Djibouti
  0-14 years: 43.3% (male 110,089/female 109,331)
  15-64 years: 53.1% (male 139,164/female 129,614)
  65 years and over: 3.6% (male 9,068/female 8,955) (2008 est.)

Dominica
  0-14 years: 24.7% (male 9,175/female 8,762)
  15-64 years: 65.1% (male 24,192/female 22,995)
  65 years and over: 10.2% (male 3,178/female 4,212) (2008 est.)

Dominican Republic
  0-14 years: 31.8% (male 1,537,981/female
  1,482,546)
  15-64 years: 62.4% (male 3,029,349/female 2,905,471)
  65 years and over: 5.8% (male 255,898/female 295,888) (2008 est.)

Ecuador
  0-14 years: 32.1% (male 2,274,986/female 2,189,437)
  15-64 years: 62.7% (male 4,355,909/female 4,381,141)
  65 years and over: 5.2% (male 340,861/female 385,316) (2008 est.)

Egypt
  0-14 years: 31.8% (male 13,292,961/female 12,690,711)
  15-64 years: 63.5% (male 26,257,440/female 25,627,390)
  65 years and over: 4.7% (male 1,636,560/female 2,208,455) (2008 est.)

El Salvador
  0-14 years: 35.8% (male 1,291,147/female 1,237,453)
  15-64 years: 59% (male 1,987,671/female 2,179,620)
  65 years and over: 5.2% (male 162,100/female 208,412) (2008 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  0-14 years: 42% (male 131,696/female 127,253)
  15-64 years: 53.8% (male 162,458/female 169,445)
  65 years and over: 4.2% (male 11,394/female 14,213) (2008 est.)

Eritrea
  0-14 years: 43% (male 1,188,496/female 1,178,520)
  15-64 years: 53.4% (male 1,437,653/female 1,502,449)
  65 years and over: 3.5% (male 89,634/female 105,274) (2008 est.)

Estonia
  0-14 years: 14.9% (male 100,143/female 94,450)
  15-64 years: 67.5% (male 420,896/female 462,072)
  65 years and over: 17.6% (male 76,171/female 153,873) (2008 est.)

Ethiopia
  0-14 years: 46% (male 18,922,334/female 19,017,593)
  15-64 years: 51.4% (male 20,749,002/female 21,656,509)
  65 years and over: 2.7% (male 947,323/female 1,252,077) (2008 est.)

European Union
  0-14 years: 15.7% (male 37,208,905/female 35,254,445)
  15-64 years: 67.2% (male 155,807,769/female 153,690,235)
  65 years and over: 17.1% (male 32,592,595/female 46,273,197) (2008
  est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  0-14 years: NA
  15-64 years: NA
  65 years and over: NA

Faroe Islands
  0-14 years: 21.9% (male 5,489/female 5,166)
  15-64 years: 64% (male 16,650/female 14,482)
  65 years and over: 14.1% (male 3,233/female 3,648) (2008 est.)

Fiji
  0-14 years: 30.6% (male 145,430/female 139,498)
  15-64 years: 64.8% (male 302,460/female 301,344)
  65 years and over: 4.6% (male 19,413/female 23,596) (2008 est.)

Finland
  0-14 years: 16.6% (male 443,738/female 427,875)
  15-64 years: 66.8% (male 1,773,232/female 1,731,808)
  65 years and over: 16.6% (male 349,826/female 518,270) (2008 est.)

France
  0-14 years: 18.6% (male 6,091,571/female 5,803,127)
  15-64 years: 65.2% (male 20,884,919/female 20,849,988)
  65 years and over: 16.3% (male 4,335,996/female 6,092,189) (2008
  est.)

French Polynesia
  0-14 years: 24.8% (male 35,903/female 34,364)
  15-64 years: 68.6% (male 100,700/female 93,492)
  65 years and over: 6.6% (male 9,374/female 9,186) (2008 est.)

Gabon
  0-14 years: 42.1% (male 314,078/female 311,900)
  15-64 years: 53.9% (male 399,586/female 401,602)
  65 years and over: 3.9% (male 24,388/female 34,278) (2008 est.)

Gambia, The
  0-14 years: 43.9% (male 382,385/female 378,853)
  15-64 years: 53.4% (male 459,315/female 466,689)
  65 years and over: 2.8% (male 24,303/female 23,919) (2008 est.)

Gaza Strip
  0-14 years: 44.7% (male 343,988/female 325,856)
  15-64 years: 52.7% (male 403,855/female 386,681)
  65 years and over: 2.7% (male 16,196/female 23,626) (2008 est.)

Georgia
  0-14 years: 16.3% (male 402,961/female 352,735)
  15-64 years: 67.1% (male 1,496,802/female 1,610,725)
  65 years and over: 16.6% (male 307,795/female 459,823) (2008 est.)

Germany
  0-14 years: 13.8% (male 5,826,066/female 5,524,568)
  15-64 years: 66.2% (male 27,763,917/female 26,739,934)
  65 years and over: 20% (male 6,892,743/female 9,622,320) (2008 est.)

Ghana
  0-14 years: 37.8% (male 4,470,382/female 4,360,359)
  15-64 years: 58.7% (male 6,852,363/female 6,866,470)
  65 years and over: 3.6% (male 386,150/female 447,124) (2008 est.)

Gibraltar
  0-14 years: 16.9% (male 2,426/female 2,309)
  15-64 years: 66.6% (male 9,507/female 9,153)
  65 years and over: 16.5% (male 2,103/female 2,504) (2008 est.)

Greece
  0-14 years: 14.3% (male 789,137/female 742,469)
  15-64 years: 66.6% (male 3,568,101/female 3,575,572)
  65 years and over: 19.1% (male 898,337/female 1,149,200) (2008 est.)

Greenland
  0-14 years: 23.5% (male 6,867/female 6,634)
  15-64 years: 69.9% (male 21,683/female 18,575)
  65 years and over: 6.6% (male 1,892/female 1,913) (2008 est.)

Grenada
  0-14 years: 32.4% (male 14,725/female 14,524)
  15-64 years: 64.7% (male 30,911/female 27,502)
  65 years and over: 3% (male 1,310/female 1,371) (2008 est.)

Guam
  0-14 years: 28.2% (male 25,644/female 23,910)
  15-64 years: 64.8% (male 58,034/female 55,900)
  65 years and over: 7% (male 5,801/female 6,588) (2008 est.)

Guatemala
  0-14 years: 40.1% (male 2,653,915/female 2,565,841)
  15-64 years: 56.2% (male 3,539,874/female 3,762,471)
  65 years and over: 3.7% (male 222,303/female 257,802) (2008 est.)

Guernsey
  0-14 years: 14.6% (male 4,849/female 4,727)
  15-64 years: 67.5% (male 22,013/female 22,380)
  65 years and over: 17.9% (male 4,988/female 6,769) (2008 est.)

Guinea
  0-14 years: 42.9% (male 2,126,575/female 2,080,048)
  15-64 years: 53.7% (male 2,628,675/female 2,633,876)
  65 years and over: 3.4% (male 148,159/female 189,176) (2008 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  0-14 years: 41% (male 307,353/female 308,726)
  15-64 years: 55.9% (male 404,747/female 436,245)
  65 years and over: 3.1% (male 18,819/female 27,292) (2008 est.)

Guyana
  0-14 years: 25.9% (male 101,712/female 97,907)
  15-64 years: 68.7% (male 267,239/female 262,188)
  65 years and over: 5.4% (male 17,610/female 24,138) (2008 est.)

Haiti
  0-14 years: 41.8% (male 1,881,509/female 1,851,591)
  15-64 years: 54.7% (male 2,386,761/female 2,495,233)
  65 years and over: 3.5% (male 135,695/female 173,764) (2008 est.)

Honduras
  0-14 years: 38.7% (male 1,508,835/female 1,446,530)
  15-64 years: 57.8% (male 2,210,187/female 2,203,620)
  65 years and over: 3.5% (male 121,839/female 148,316) (2008 est.)

Hong Kong
  0-14 years: 12.6% (male 463,300/female 422,945)
  15-64 years: 74.4% (male 2,535,246/female 2,684,495)
  65 years and over: 13% (male 425,500/female 487,150) (2008 est.)

Hungary
  0-14 years: 15.2% (male 774,092/female 730,485)
  15-64 years: 69.3% (male 3,393,630/female 3,488,011)
  65 years and over: 15.6% (male 559,483/female 985,214) (2008 est.)

Iceland
  0-14 years: 21% (male 32,500/female 31,566)
  15-64 years: 67% (male 103,231/female 100,545)
  65 years and over: 12% (male 16,530/female 19,995) (2008 est.)

India
  0-14 years: 31.5% (male 189,238,487/female 172,168,306)
  15-64 years: 63.3% (male 374,157,581/female 352,868,003)
  65 years and over: 5.2% (male 28,285,796/female 31,277,725) (2008
  est.)

Indonesia
  0-14 years: 28.4% (male 34,343,198/female 33,175,135)
  15-64 years: 65.7% (male 78,330,830/female 77,812,339)
  65 years and over: 5.8% (male 6,151,305/female 7,699,548) (2008 est.)

Iran
  0-14 years: 22.3% (male 7,548,116/female 7,164,921)
  15-64 years: 72.3% (male 24,090,976/female 23,522,861)
  65 years and over: 5.4% (male 1,713,533/female 1,834,816) (2008 est.)

Iraq
  0-14 years: 39.2% (male 5,613,420/female 5,438,770)
  15-64 years: 57.9% (male 8,270,573/female 8,057,423)
  65 years and over: 3% (male 396,751/female 444,244) (2008 est.)

Ireland
  0-14 years: 20.9% (male 448,333/female 418,476)
  15-64 years: 67.3% (male 1,400,222/female 1,398,194)
  65 years and over: 11.8% (male 218,459/female 272,435) (2008 est.)

Isle of Man
  0-14 years: 17% (male 6,629/female 6,318)
  15-64 years: 65.9% (male 25,251/female 24,959)
  65 years and over: 17.1% (male 5,294/female 7,769) (2008 est.)

Israel
  0-14 years: 28% (male 1,018,229/female 971,083)
  15-64 years: 62.2% (male 2,242,928/female 2,183,688)
  65 years and over: 9.8% (male 303,289/female 393,142) (2008 est.)

Italy
  0-14 years: 13.6% (male 4,086,951/female 3,842,765)
  15-64 years: 66.3% (male 19,534,247/female 19,024,776)
  65 years and over: 20% (male 4,864,189/female 6,792,393) (2008 est.)

Jamaica
  0-14 years: 32% (male 455,871/female 440,928)
  15-64 years: 60.6% (male 837,241/female 861,906)
  65 years and over: 7.4% (male 93,415/female 114,971) (2008 est.)

Japan
  0-14 years: 13.7% (male 8,926,439/female 8,460,629)
  15-64 years: 64.7% (male 41,513,061/female 40,894,057)
  65 years and over: 21.6% (male 11,643,845/female 15,850,388) (2008
  est.)

Jersey
  0-14 years: 16.6% (male 7,851/female 7,298)
  15-64 years: 67.5% (male 30,744/female 30,997)
  65 years and over: 16% (male 6,499/female 8,144) (2008 est.)

Jordan
  0-14 years: 32.2% (male 1,017,233/female 976,284)
  15-64 years: 63.7% (male 2,110,293/female 1,840,531)
  65 years and over: 4.1% (male 122,975/female 131,361) (2008 est.)

Kazakhstan
  0-14 years: 22.1% (male 1,734,622/female 1,659,723)
  15-64 years: 69.6% (male 5,219,983/female 5,463,468)
  65 years and over: 8.2% (male 443,483/female 819,254) (2008 est.)

Kenya
  0-14 years: 42.2% (male 8,065,789/female 7,953,077)
  15-64 years: 55.2% (male 10,498,468/female 10,434,764)
  65 years and over: 2.6% (male 457,886/female 543,854) (2008 est.)

Kiribati
  0-14 years: 37.9% (male 21,180/female 20,604)
  15-64 years: 58.7% (male 31,993/female 32,797)
  65 years and over: 3.4% (male 1,606/female 2,176) (2008 est.)

Korea, North
  0-14 years: 22.9% (male 2,733,352/female 2,654,186)
  15-64 years: 68.2% (male 7,931,484/female 8,083,626)
  65 years and over: 8.8% (male 751,401/female 1,325,040) (2008 est.)

Korea, South
  0-14 years: 17.4% (male 4,431,315/female 4,004,810)
  15-64 years: 72% (male 17,760,975/female 17,095,436)
  65 years and over: 10.5% (male 2,030,931/female 3,055,925) (2008
  est.)

Kuwait
  0-14 years: 26.6% (male 351,057/female 338,634)
  15-64 years: 70.6% (male 1,172,460/female 659,927)
  65 years and over: 2.9% (male 46,770/female 27,951) (2008 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  0-14 years: 29.9% (male 817,369/female 784,782)
  15-64 years: 64% (male 1,681,440/female 1,748,222)
  65 years and over: 6.1% (male 127,263/female 197,793) (2008 est.)

Laos
  0-14 years: 41% (male 1,374,966/female 1,362,945)
  15-64 years: 55.9% (male 1,846,375/female 1,885,029)
  65 years and over: 3.1% (male 91,028/female 117,191) (2008 est.)

Latvia
  0-14 years: 13.4% (male 154,077/female 146,825)
  15-64 years: 69.7% (male 760,976/female 803,106)
  65 years and over: 16.9% (male 124,658/female 255,781) (2008 est.)

Lebanon
  0-14 years: 26% (male 526,994/female 505,894)
  15-64 years: 66.8% (male 1,275,021/female 1,380,131)
  65 years and over: 7.1% (male 128,002/female 155,899) (2008 est.)

Lesotho
  0-14 years: 35.3% (male 377,784/female 372,840)
  15-64 years: 59.8% (male 621,687/female 649,981)
  65 years and over: 5% (male 42,348/female 63,540) (2008 est.)

Liberia
  0-14 years: 44% (male 734,375/female 731,287)
  15-64 years: 53.3% (male 879,848/female 896,319)
  65 years and over: 2.8% (male 45,175/female 47,583) (2008 est.)

Libya
  0-14 years: 33.2% (male 1,046,400/female 1,002,148)
  15-64 years: 62.6% (male 1,988,038/female 1,875,034)
  65 years and over: 4.2% (male 128,386/female 133,573) (2008 est.)

Liechtenstein
  0-14 years: 16.9% (male 2,892/female 2,927)
  15-64 years: 69.8% (male 11,905/female 12,180)
  65 years and over: 13.3% (male 1,964/female 2,630) (2008 est.)

Lithuania
  0-14 years: 14.5% (male 264,668/female 250,997)
  15-64 years: 69.5% (male 1,214,236/female 1,263,198)
  65 years and over: 16% (male 197,498/female 374,608) (2008 est.)

Luxembourg
  0-14 years: 18.6% (male 46,729/female 43,889)
  15-64 years: 66.6% (male 163,356/female 160,425)
  65 years and over: 14.7% (male 29,206/female 42,401) (2008 est.)

Macau
  0-14 years: 16.5% (male 47,935/female 42,301)
  15-64 years: 75.8% (male 193,571/female 220,108)
  65 years and over: 7.7% (male 19,340/female 22,419) (2008 est.)

Macedonia
  0-14 years: 19.5% (male 207,954/female 193,428)
  15-64 years: 69.3% (male 719,708/female 708,033)
  65 years and over: 11.3% (male 101,036/female 131,156) (2008 est.)

Madagascar
  0-14 years: 43.7% (male 4,408,615/female 4,349,862)
  15-64 years: 53.2% (male 5,298,805/female 5,371,764)
  65 years and over: 3.1% (male 275,087/female 338,418) (2008 est.)

Malawi
  0-14 years: 46% (male 3,208,112/female 3,194,600)
  15-64 years: 51.4% (male 3,592,073/female 3,563,840)
  65 years and over: 2.7% (male 159,450/female 213,756) (2008 est.)

Malaysia
  0-14 years: 31.8% (male 4,135,013/female 3,898,761)
  15-64 years: 63.3% (male 8,026,755/female 7,965,332)
  65 years and over: 4.9% (male 548,970/female 699,302) (2008 est.)

Maldives
  0-14 years: 23.5% (male 46,174/female 44,396)
  15-64 years: 72.7% (male 172,279/female 108,152)
  65 years and over: 3.9% (male 7,510/female 7,414) (2008 est.)

Mali
  0-14 years: 48.2% (male 3,004,003/female 2,937,138)
  15-64 years: 48.7% (male 2,976,314/female 3,028,433)
  65 years and over: 3.1% (male 150,597/female 227,544) (2008 est.)

Malta
  0-14 years: 16.4% (male 33,954/female 32,158)
  15-64 years: 69.7% (male 142,338/female 138,792)
  65 years and over: 13.9% (male 24,240/female 32,050) (2008 est.)

Marshall Islands
  0-14 years: 38.5% (male 12,404/female 11,946)
  15-64 years: 58.6% (male 18,937/female 18,095)
  65 years and over: 2.8% (male 869/female 923) (2008 est.)

Mauritania
  0-14 years: 45.3% (male 763,845/female 759,957)
  15-64 years: 52.5% (male 872,924/female 894,980)
  65 years and over: 2.2% (male 29,147/female 44,087) (2008 est.)

Mauritius
  0-14 years: 23% (male 148,573/female 143,859)
  15-64 years: 70.1% (male 443,968/female 449,670)
  65 years and over: 6.9% (male 35,269/female 52,850) (2008 est.)

Mayotte
  0-14 years: 45.5% (male 49,521/female 48,996)
  15-64 years: 52.7% (male 61,267/female 52,641)
  65 years and over: 1.8% (male 1,971/female 1,910) (2008 est.)

Mexico
  0-14 years: 29.6% (male 16,619,995/female 15,936,154)
  15-64 years: 64.3% (male 34,179,440/female 36,530,154)
  65 years and over: 6.1% (male 3,023,185/female 3,666,472) (2008 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  0-14 years: 35.3% (male
  19,344/female 18,687)
  15-64 years: 61.8% (male 33,142/female 33,389)
  65 years and over: 2.9% (male 1,320/female 1,783) (2008 est.)

Moldova
  0-14 years: 16.3% (male 361,000/female 341,785)
  15-64 years: 72.9% (male 1,528,080/female 1,622,620)
  65 years and over: 10.9% (male 174,448/female 296,517) (2008 est.)

Monaco
  0-14 years: 14.8% (male 2,488/female 2,369)
  15-64 years: 62.4% (male 10,110/female 10,353)
  65 years and over: 22.8% (male 3,048/female 4,428) (2008 est.)

Mongolia
  0-14 years: 28.4% (male 433,835/female 416,549)
  15-64 years: 67.7% (male 1,013,215/female 1,015,221)
  65 years and over: 3.9% (male 51,093/female 66,168) (2008 est.)

Montserrat
  0-14 years: 27.8% (male 738/female 675)
  15-64 years: 64.8% (male 1,575/female 1,716)
  65 years and over: 7.4% (male 245/female 130) (2008 est.)

Morocco
  0-14 years: 30.5% (male 5,337,322/female 5,136,156)
  15-64 years: 64.3% (male 11,015,409/female 11,069,038)
  65 years and over: 5.2% (male 765,882/female 1,019,412) (2008 est.)

Mozambique
  0-14 years: 44.5% (male 4,762,335/female 4,711,422)
  15-64 years: 52.7% (male 5,472,184/female 5,736,154)
  65 years and over: 2.8% (male 251,026/female 351,580) (2008 est.)

Namibia
  0-14 years: 36.7% (male 386,252/female 379,426)
  15-64 years: 59.5% (male 627,752/female 615,241)
  65 years and over: 3.8% (male 35,960/female 44,038) (2008 est.)

Nauru
  0-14 years: 35.5% (male 2,492/female 2,393)
  15-64 years: 62.5% (male 4,237/female 4,363)
  65 years and over: 2.1% (male 148/female 137) (2008 est.)

Nepal
  0-14 years: 38% (male 5,792,042/female 5,427,370)
  15-64 years: 58.2% (male 8,832,488/female 8,345,724)
  65 years and over: 3.8% (male 542,192/female 579,298) (2008 est.)

Netherlands
  0-14 years: 17.6% (male 1,496,348/female 1,427,297)
  15-64 years: 67.8% (male 5,705,003/female 5,583,787)
  65 years and over: 14.6% (male 1,040,932/female 1,391,946) (2008
  est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  0-14 years: 23.2% (male 26,749/female 25,467)
  15-64 years: 67.5% (male 73,319/female 78,842)
  65 years and over: 9.3% (male 8,541/female 12,451) (2008 est.)

New Caledonia
  0-14 years: 27.3% (male 31,376/female 30,064)
  15-64 years: 65.6% (male 74,064/female 73,369)
  65 years and over: 7.1% (male 7,377/female 8,574) (2008 est.)

New Zealand
  0-14 years: 20.9% (male 446,883/female 424,240)
  15-64 years: 66.5% (male 1,390,669/female 1,385,686)
  65 years and over: 12.6% (male 238,560/female 287,422) (2008 est.)

Nicaragua
  0-14 years: 34.6% (male 1,019,281/female 981,903)
  15-64 years: 62.1% (male 1,792,398/female 1,803,133)
  65 years and over: 3.3% (male 82,840/female 106,291) (2008 est.)

Niger
  0-14 years: 47% (male 3,174,834/female 3,057,003)
  15-64 years: 50.6% (male 3,450,393/female 3,267,496)
  65 years and over: 2.4% (male 159,945/female 163,008) (2008 est.)

Nigeria
  0-14 years: 41.7% (male 31,171,949/female 29,806,204)
  15-64 years: 55.3% (male 41,243,003/female 39,611,565)
  65 years and over: 3% (male 2,152,318/female 2,270,267) (2008 est.)

Niue
  0-14 years: NA
  15-64 years: NA
  65 years and over: NA

Norfolk Island
  0-14 years: 20.2%
  15-64 years: 63.9%
  65 years and over: 15.9% (2007 est.)

Northern Mariana Islands
  0-14 years: 18.4% (male 8,342/female 7,594)
  15-64 years: 79.9% (male 27,996/female 41,245)
  65 years and over: 1.7% (male 740/female 699) (2008 est.)

Norway
  0-14 years: 18.8% (male 446,146/female 426,166)
  15-64 years: 66.2% (male 1,559,750/female 1,516,217)
  65 years and over: 15% (male 297,175/female 399,003) (2008 est.)

Oman
  0-14 years: 42.7% (male 721,796/female 692,699)
  15-64 years: 54.5% (male 1,053,040/female 752,962)
  65 years and over: 2.8% (male 51,290/female 39,853) (2008 est.)

Pakistan
  0-14 years: 37.8% (male 33,617,953/female 31,741,258)
  15-64 years: 58% (male 51,292,535/female 48,921,023)
  65 years and over: 4.2% (male 3,408,749/female 3,818,533) (2008 est.)

Palau
  0-14 years: 25.8% (male 2,797/female 2,637)
  15-64 years: 69.4% (male 7,864/female 6,779)
  65 years and over: 4.8% (male 482/female 534) (2008 est.)

Panama
  0-14 years: 29.6% (male 499,254/female 479,242)
  15-64 years: 63.8% (male 1,066,915/female 1,043,499)
  65 years and over: 6.7% (male 102,937/female 117,832) (2008 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  0-14 years: 37.3% (male 1,124,174/female 1,086,478)
  15-64 years: 58.7% (male 1,791,342/female 1,690,089)
  65 years and over: 4% (male 111,023/female 128,663) (2008 est.)

Paraguay
  0-14 years: 36.9% (male 1,283,311/female 1,240,769)
  15-64 years: 57.9% (male 1,988,256/female 1,968,869)
  65 years and over: 5.1% (male 161,811/female 188,290) (2008 est.)

Peru
  0-14 years: 29.7% (male 4,409,227/female 4,253,836)
  15-64 years: 64.7% (male 9,501,597/female 9,381,139)
  65 years and over: 5.6% (male 770,389/female 864,711) (2008 est.)

Philippines
  0-14 years: 35.5% (male 17,392,780/female 16,708,255)
  15-64 years: 60.4% (male 28,986,232/female 29,076,329)
  65 years and over: 4.1% (male 1,682,485/female 2,215,602) (2008 est.)

Pitcairn Islands
  0-14 years: NA
  15-64 years: NA
  65 years and over: NA

Poland
  0-14 years: 15.2% (male 3,013,109/female 2,849,977)
  15-64 years: 71.4% (male 13,681,481/female 13,808,412)
  65 years and over: 13.4% (male 1,964,477/female 3,183,240) (2008
  est.)

Portugal
  0-14 years: 16.4% (male 912,995/female 835,715)
  15-64 years: 66.2% (male 3,514,905/female 3,555,097)
  65 years and over: 17.4% (male 764,443/female 1,093,755) (2008 est.)

Puerto Rico
  0-14 years: 20.5% (male 415,141/female 396,782)
  15-64 years: 66% (male 1,254,416/female 1,358,229)
  65 years and over: 13.5% (male 229,727/female 303,833) (2008 est.)

Qatar
  0-14 years: 21.8% (male 92,896/female 87,201)
  15-64 years: 76.8% (male 451,127/female 182,330)
  65 years and over: 1.4% (male 6,545/female 4,690) (2008 est.)

Romania
  0-14 years: 15.6% (male 1,778,864/female 1,687,659)
  15-64 years: 69.7% (male 7,718,125/female 7,791,102)
  65 years and over: 14.7% (male 1,337,915/female 1,933,197) (2008
  est.)

Russia
  0-14 years: 14.6% (male 10,577,858/female 10,033,254)
  15-64 years: 71.2% (male 48,187,807/female 52,045,102)
  65 years and over: 14.1% (male 6,162,400/female 13,695,673) (2008
  est.)

Rwanda
  0-14 years: 41.9% (male 2,143,479/female 2,124,588)
  15-64 years: 55.7% (male 2,826,557/female 2,842,020)
  65 years and over: 2.4% (male 99,721/female 149,698) (2008 est.)

Saint Helena
  0-14 years: 18.5% (male 716/female 690)
  15-64 years: 70.7% (male 2,754/female 2,618)
  65 years and over: 10.8% (male 381/female 442) (2008 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  0-14 years: 26.7% (male 5,439/female 5,186)
  15-64 years: 65.3% (male 13,018/female 12,968)
  65 years and over: 8.1% (male 1,334/female 1,872) (2008 est.)

Saint Lucia
  0-14 years: 25.2% (male 20,614/female 19,559)
  15-64 years: 65.8% (male 50,897/female 54,140)
  65 years and over: 9% (male 6,481/female 7,894) (2008 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  0-14 years: 22.4% (male 806/female 772)
  15-64 years: 66.3% (male 2,370/female 2,301)
  65 years and over: 11.3% (male 366/female 429) (2008 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  0-14 years: 25.1% (male
  15,161/female 14,600)
  15-64 years: 68.4% (male 41,855/female 39,105)
  65 years and over: 6.5% (male 3,402/female 4,309) (2008 est.)

Samoa
  0-14 years: 37.9% (male 41,834/female 40,343)
  15-64 years: 56.5% (male 64,402/female 58,257)
  65 years and over: 5.6% (male 5,481/female 6,766) (2008 est.)

San Marino
  0-14 years: 16.8% (male 2,608/female 2,430)
  15-64 years: 66% (male 9,464/female 10,304)
  65 years and over: 17.2% (male 2,229/female 2,938) (2008 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe
  0-14 years: 47.1% (male 49,196/female 47,941)
  15-64 years: 49.3% (male 49,326/female 52,324)
  65 years and over: 3.6% (male 3,350/female 4,041) (2008 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  0-14 years: 38% (male 5,458,023/female 5,245,911)
  15-64 years: 59.5% (male 9,470,353/female 7,284,696)
  65 years and over: 2.4% (male 356,910/female 330,764) (2008 est.)

Senegal
  0-14 years: 41.9% (male 2,717,257/female 2,668,602)
  15-64 years: 55.1% (male 3,524,683/female 3,552,643)
  65 years and over: 3% (male 183,188/female 206,886) (2008 est.)

Seychelles
  0-14 years: 24.9% (male 10,337/female 10,108)
  15-64 years: 69.1% (male 27,752/female 29,048)
  65 years and over: 6.1% (male 1,575/female 3,427) (2008 est.)

Sierra Leone
  0-14 years: 44.6% (male 1,377,981/female 1,429,993)
  15-64 years: 52.2% (male 1,573,990/female 1,708,840)
  65 years and over: 3.2% (male 94,359/female 109,611) (2008 est.)

Singapore
  0-14 years: 14.8% (male 353,333/female 329,005)
  15-64 years: 76.5% (male 1,717,357/female 1,809,462)
  65 years and over: 8.7% (male 177,378/female 221,632) (2008 est.)

Slovakia
  0-14 years: 16.1% (male 448,083/female 427,643)
  15-64 years: 71.7% (male 1,947,112/female 1,961,788)
  65 years and over: 12.3% (male 250,787/female 419,994) (2008 est.)

Slovenia
  0-14 years: 13.6% (male 140,686/female 132,778)
  15-64 years: 70.1% (male 709,689/female 697,862)
  65 years and over: 16.3% (male 127,313/female 199,383) (2008 est.)

Solomon Islands
  0-14 years: 40.1% (male 118,856/female 114,173)
  15-64 years: 56.5% (male 166,004/female 162,317)
  65 years and over: 3.4% (male 9,487/female 10,481) (2008 est.)

Somalia
  0-14 years: 44.7% (male 2,143,758/female 2,132,869)
  15-64 years: 52.8% (male 2,525,562/female 2,516,879)
  65 years and over: 2.5% (male 100,655/female 138,943) (2008 est.)

South Africa
  0-14 years: 29.2% (male 7,147,151/female 7,120,183)
  15-64 years: 65.5% (male 16,057,340/female 15,889,750)
  65 years and over: 5.3% (male 1,050,287/female 1,518,044) (2008 est.)

Spain
  0-14 years: 14.4% (male 3,011,815/female 2,832,788)
  15-64 years: 67.6% (male 13,741,493/female 13,641,914)
  65 years and over: 17.9% (male 3,031,597/female 4,231,444) (2008
  est.)

Sri Lanka
  0-14 years: 24.1% (male 2,596,463/female 2,495,136)
  15-64 years: 68% (male 7,019,446/female 7,340,809)
  65 years and over: 7.9% (male 783,823/female 893,096) (2008 est.)

Sudan
  0-14 years: 41.1% (male 8,451,576/female 8,093,609)
  15-64 years: 56.4% (male 11,407,233/female 11,275,685)
  65 years and over: 2.5% (male 518,822/female 471,530) (2008 est.)

Suriname
  0-14 years: 27.5% (male 66,695/female 64,356)
  15-64 years: 66.2% (male 156,961/female 158,234)
  65 years and over: 6.3% (male 12,868/female 16,882) (2008 est.)

Svalbard
  0-14 years: NA
  15-64 years: NA
  65 years and over: NA

Swaziland
  0-14 years: 39.9% (male 226,947/female 222,922)
  15-64 years: 56.5% (male 306,560/female 331,406)
  65 years and over: 3.6% (male 15,594/female 25,385) (2008 est.)

Sweden
  0-14 years: 16% (male 745,110/female 703,857)
  15-64 years: 65.6% (male 3,008,148/female 2,928,930)
  65 years and over: 18.3% (male 729,500/female 929,844) (2008 est.)

Switzerland
  0-14 years: 15.8% (male 623,213/female 577,430)
  15-64 years: 68.2% (male 2,605,044/female 2,562,354)
  65 years and over: 16% (male 501,699/female 711,780) (2008 est.)

Syria
  0-14 years: 36.2% (male 3,679,473/female 3,467,096)
  15-64 years: 60.5% (male 6,119,459/female 5,822,376)
  65 years and over: 3.3% (male 310,838/female 348,344) (2008 est.)

Taiwan
  0-14 years: 17.3% (male 2,057,458/female 1,900,449)
  15-64 years: 72.3% (male 8,362,038/female 8,204,834)
  65 years and over: 10.5% (male 1,167,476/female 1,228,691) (2008
  est.)

Tajikistan
  0-14 years: 34.6% (male 1,270,289/female 1,226,954)
  15-64 years: 61.7% (male 2,203,720/female 2,244,660)
  65 years and over: 3.7% (male 113,156/female 153,105) (2008 est.)

Tanzania
  0-14 years: 43.5% (male 8,763,471/female 8,719,198)
  15-64 years: 53.7% (male 10,638,666/female 10,947,190)
  65 years and over: 2.8% (male 502,368/female 642,269) (2008 est.)

Thailand
  0-14 years: 21.2% (male 7,104,776/female 6,781,453)
  15-64 years: 70.3% (male 22,763,274/female 23,304,793)
  65 years and over: 8.5% (male 2,516,721/female 3,022,281) (2008 est.)

Timor-Leste
  0-14 years: 35.1% (male 197,975/female 191,716)
  15-64 years: 61.6% (male 347,573/female 334,908)
  65 years and over: 3.3% (male 17,578/female 19,027) (2008 est.)

Togo
  0-14 years: 41.7% (male 1,226,320/female 1,218,182)
  15-64 years: 55.6% (male 1,588,354/female 1,666,274)
  65 years and over: 2.7% (male 63,508/female 96,035) (2008 est.)

Tokelau
  0-14 years: 42%
  15-64 years: 53%
  65 years and over: 5%

Tonga
  0-14 years: 33.7% (male 20,484/female 19,633)
  15-64 years: 62% (male 36,699/female 37,108)
  65 years and over: 4.3% (male 2,135/female 2,950) (2008 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  0-14 years: 19% (male 102,352/female 96,487)
  15-64 years: 71.8% (male 396,352/female 356,080)
  65 years and over: 9.2% (male 42,998/female 53,097) (2008 est.)

Tunisia
  0-14 years: 23.2% (male 1,246,105/female 1,167,379)
  15-64 years: 69.7% (male 3,638,062/female 3,595,254)
  65 years and over: 7.1% (male 345,590/female 391,187) (2008 est.)

Turkey
  0-14 years: 24.4% (male 8,937,515/female 8,608,375)
  15-64 years: 68.6% (male 25,030,793/female 24,253,312)
  65 years and over: 7% (male 2,307,236/female 2,755,576) (2008 est.)

Turkmenistan
  0-14 years: 34.2% (male 902,811/female 868,428)
  15-64 years: 61.5% (male 1,577,187/female 1,607,353)
  65 years and over: 4.3% (male 97,480/female 126,312) (2008 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  0-14 years: 30.7% (male 3,497/female 3,374)
  15-64 years: 65.2% (male 7,640/female 6,929)
  65 years and over: 4.1% (male 435/female 477) (2008 est.)

Tuvalu
  0-14 years: 29.4% (male 1,826/female 1,754)
  15-64 years: 65.4% (male 3,891/female 4,073)
  65 years and over: 5.2% (male 236/female 397) (2008 est.)

Uganda
  0-14 years: 50% (male 7,903,935/female 7,789,792)
  15-64 years: 47.8% (male 7,528,073/female 7,469,938)
  65 years and over: 2.2% (male 284,122/female 392,112) (2008 est.)

Ukraine
  0-14 years: 13.9% (male 3,277,905/female 3,106,012)
  15-64 years: 70% (male 15,443,818/female 16,767,931)
  65 years and over: 16.1% (male 2,489,235/female 4,909,386) (2008
  est.)

United Arab Emirates
  0-14 years: 20.5% (male 484,102/female 462,405)
  15-64 years: 78.6% (male 2,663,702/female 970,672)
  65 years and over: 0.9% (male 26,244/female 14,274)
  note: 73.9% of the population in the 15-64 age group is non-national
  (2008 est.)

United Kingdom
  0-14 years: 16.9% (male 5,287,590/female 5,036,881)
  15-64 years: 67.1% (male 20,698,645/female 20,185,040)
  65 years and over: 16% (male 4,186,561/female 5,549,195) (2008 est.)

United States
  0-14 years: 20.1% (male 31,257,108/female 29,889,645)
  15-64 years: 67.1% (male 101,825,901/female 102,161,823)
  65 years and over: 12.7% (male 16,263,255/female 22,426,914) (2008
  est.)

Uruguay
  0-14 years: 22.7% (male 401,209/female 388,315)
  15-64 years: 64% (male 1,105,891/female 1,120,858)
  65 years and over: 13.3% (male 185,704/female 275,801) (2008 est.)

Uzbekistan
  0-14 years: 29% (male 4,047,918/female 3,870,346)
  15-64 years: 66% (male 8,971,017/female 9,079,170)
  65 years and over: 5% (male 588,498/female 788,077) (2008 est.)

Vanuatu
  0-14 years: 31.3% (male 34,441/female 33,000)
  15-64 years: 64.8% (male 71,159/female 68,435)
  65 years and over: 3.9% (male 4,352/female 4,059) (2008 est.)

Venezuela
  0-14 years: 31% (male 4,162,862/female 4,034,044)
  15-64 years: 63.8% (male 8,299,266/female 8,562,290)
  65 years and over: 5.1% (male 602,725/female 753,628) (2008 est.)

Vietnam
  0-14 years: 25.6% (male 11,418,642/female 10,598,184)
  15-64 years: 68.6% (male 29,341,216/female 29,777,696)
  65 years and over: 5.8% (male 1,925,609/female 3,055,212) (2008 est.)

Virgin Islands
  0-14 years: 21% (male 11,698/female 11,390)
  15-64 years: 66.2% (male 34,035/female 38,670)
  65 years and over: 12.8% (male 6,312/female 7,735) (2008 est.)

Wallis and Futuna
  0-14 years: (male 2,215/female 1,999)
  15-64 years: (male 4,982/female 4,996)
  65 years and over: (male 465/female 580)

West Bank
  0-14 years: 38% (male 469,754/female 445,999)
  15-64 years: 58.3% (male 719,267/female 684,790)
  65 years and over: 3.6% (male 36,606/female 51,265) (2008 est.)

Western Sahara
  0-14 years: 45.1% (male 90,306/female 87,498)
  15-64 years: 52.6% (male 101,730/female 105,313)
  65 years and over: 2.3% (male 3,786/female 5,198) (2008 est.)

World
  0-14 years: 27.3% (male 944,665,142/female 887,471,328)
  15-64 years: 65.1%
  65 years and over: 7.6% (male 222,808,372/female 284,647,297) (2008
  est.)

Yemen
  0-14 years: 46.2% (male 5,415,385/female 5,218,237)
  15-64 years: 51.2% (male 5,996,202/female 5,795,779)
  65 years and over: 2.6% (male 284,195/female 303,578) (2008 est.)

Zambia
  0-14 years: 45.4% (male 2,659,572/female 2,634,379)
  15-64 years: 52.3% (male 3,045,536/female 3,053,465)
  65 years and over: 2.4% (male 115,662/female 160,920) (2008 est.)

Zimbabwe
  0-14 years: 43.9% (male 2,514,135/female 2,465,715)
  15-64 years: 52.3% (male 2,671,164/female 3,260,457)
  65 years and over: 3.9% (male 194,854/female 243,786) (2008 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2011  Geographic coordinates


Afghanistan
  33 00 N, 65 00 E

Akrotiri
  34 37 N, 32 58 E

Albania
  41 00 N, 20 00 E

Algeria
  28 00 N, 3 00 E

American Samoa
  14 20 S, 170 00 W

Andorra
  42 30 N, 1 30 E

Angola
  12 30 S, 18 30 E

Anguilla
  18 15 N, 63 10 W

Antarctica
  90 00 S, 0 00 E

Antigua and Barbuda
  17 03 N, 61 48 W

Arctic Ocean
  90 00 N, 0 00 E

Argentina
  34 00 S, 64 00 W

Armenia
  40 00 N, 45 00 E

Aruba
  12 30 N, 69 58 W

Ashmore and Cartier Islands
  12 14 S, 123 05 E

Atlantic Ocean
  0 00 N, 25 00 W

Australia
  27 00 S, 133 00 E

Austria
  47 20 N, 13 20 E

Azerbaijan
  40 30 N, 47 30 E

Bahamas, The
  24 15 N, 76 00 W

Bahrain
  26 00 N, 50 33 E

Bangladesh
  24 00 N, 90 00 E

Barbados
  13 10 N, 59 32 W

Belarus
  53 00 N, 28 00 E

Belgium
  50 50 N, 4 00 E

Belize
  17 15 N, 88 45 W

Benin
  9 30 N, 2 15 E

Bermuda
  32 20 N, 64 45 W

Bhutan
  27 30 N, 90 30 E

Bolivia
  17 00 S, 65 00 W

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  44 00 N, 18 00 E

Botswana
  22 00 S, 24 00 E

Bouvet Island
  54 26 S, 3 24 E

Brazil
  10 00 S, 55 00 W

British Indian Ocean Territory
  6 00 S, 71 30 E; note - Diego Garcia
  7 20 S, 72 25 E

British Virgin Islands
  18 30 N, 64 30 W

Brunei
  4 30 N, 114 40 E

Bulgaria
  43 00 N, 25 00 E

Burkina Faso
  13 00 N, 2 00 W

Burma
  22 00 N, 98 00 E

Burundi
  3 30 S, 30 00 E

Cambodia
  13 00 N, 105 00 E

Cameroon
  6 00 N, 12 00 E

Canada
  60 00 N, 95 00 W

Cape Verde
  16 00 N, 24 00 W

Cayman Islands
  19 30 N, 80 30 W

Central African Republic
  7 00 N, 21 00 E

Chad
  15 00 N, 19 00 E

Chile
  30 00 S, 71 00 W

China
  35 00 N, 105 00 E

Christmas Island
  10 30 S, 105 40 E

Clipperton Island
  10 17 N, 109 13 W

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  12 30 S, 96 50 E

Colombia
  4 00 N, 72 00 W

Comoros
  12 10 S, 44 15 E

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  0 00 N, 25 00 E

Congo, Republic of the
  1 00 S, 15 00 E

Cook Islands
  21 14 S, 159 46 W

Coral Sea Islands
  18 00 S, 152 00 E

Costa Rica
  10 00 N, 84 00 W

Cote d'Ivoire
  8 00 N, 5 00 W

Croatia
  45 10 N, 15 30 E

Cuba
  21 30 N, 80 00 W

Cyprus
  35 00 N, 33 00 E

Czech Republic
  49 45 N, 15 30 E

Denmark
  56 00 N, 10 00 E

Dhekelia
  34 59 N, 33 45 E

Djibouti
  11 30 N, 43 00 E

Dominica
  15 25 N, 61 20 W

Dominican Republic
  19 00 N, 70 40 W

Ecuador
  2 00 S, 77 30 W

Egypt
  27 00 N, 30 00 E

El Salvador
  13 50 N, 88 55 W

Equatorial Guinea
  2 00 N, 10 00 E

Eritrea
  15 00 N, 39 00 E

Estonia
  59 00 N, 26 00 E

Ethiopia
  8 00 N, 38 00 E

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  51 45 S, 59 00 W

Faroe Islands
  62 00 N, 7 00 W

Fiji
  18 00 S, 175 00 E

Finland
  64 00 N, 26 00 E

France
  metropolitan France: 46 00 N, 2 00 E
  French Guiana: 4 00 N, 53 00 W
  Guadeloupe: 16 15 N, 61 35 W
  Martinique: 14 40 N, 61 00 W
  Reunion: 21 06 S, 55 36 E

French Polynesia
  15 00 S, 140 00 W

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  Ile Amsterdam (Ile Amsterdam et
  Ile Saint-Paul): 37 50 S, 77 32 E
  Ile Saint-Paul (Ile Amsterdam et Ile Saint-Paul): 38 72 S, 77 53 E
  Iles Crozet: 46 25 S, 51 00 E
  Iles Kerguelen: 49 15 S, 69 35 E
  Bassas da India (Iles Eparses): 21 30 S, 39 50 E
  Europa Island (Iles Eparses): 22 20 S, 40 22 E
  Glorioso Islands (Iles Eparses): 11 30 S, 47 20 E
  Juan de Nova Island (Iles Eparses): 17 03 S, 42 45 E
  Tromelin Island (Iles Eparses): 15 52 S, 54 25 E

Gabon
  1 00 S, 11 45 E

Gambia, The
  13 28 N, 16 34 W

Gaza Strip
  31 25 N, 34 20 E

Georgia
  42 00 N, 43 30 E

Germany
  51 00 N, 9 00 E

Ghana
  8 00 N, 2 00 W

Gibraltar
  36 08 N, 5 21 W

Greece
  39 00 N, 22 00 E

Greenland
  72 00 N, 40 00 W

Grenada
  12 07 N, 61 40 W

Guam
  13 28 N, 144 47 E

Guatemala
  15 30 N, 90 15 W

Guernsey
  49 28 N, 2 35 W

Guinea
  11 00 N, 10 00 W

Guinea-Bissau
  12 00 N, 15 00 W

Guyana
  5 00 N, 59 00 W

Haiti
  19 00 N, 72 25 W

Heard Island and McDonald Islands
  53 06 S, 72 31 E

Holy See (Vatican City)
  41 54 N, 12 27 E

Honduras
  15 00 N, 86 30 W

Hong Kong
  22 15 N, 114 10 E

Hungary
  47 00 N, 20 00 E

Iceland
  65 00 N, 18 00 W

India
  20 00 N, 77 00 E

Indian Ocean
  20 00 S, 80 00 E

Indonesia
  5 00 S, 120 00 E

Iran
  32 00 N, 53 00 E

Iraq
  33 00 N, 44 00 E

Ireland
  53 00 N, 8 00 W

Isle of Man
  54 15 N, 4 30 W

Israel
  31 30 N, 34 45 E

Italy
  42 50 N, 12 50 E

Jamaica
  18 15 N, 77 30 W

Jan Mayen
  71 00 N, 8 00 W

Japan
  36 00 N, 138 00 E

Jersey
  49 15 N, 2 10 W

Jordan
  31 00 N, 36 00 E

Kazakhstan
  48 00 N, 68 00 E

Kenya
  1 00 N, 38 00 E

Kiribati
  1 25 N, 173 00 E

Korea, North
  40 00 N, 127 00 E

Korea, South
  37 00 N, 127 30 E

Kosovo
  42 35 N, 21 00 E

Kuwait
  29 30 N, 45 45 E

Kyrgyzstan
  41 00 N, 75 00 E

Laos
  18 00 N, 105 00 E

Latvia
  57 00 N, 25 00 E

Lebanon
  33 50 N, 35 50 E

Lesotho
  29 30 S, 28 30 E

Liberia
  6 30 N, 9 30 W

Libya
  25 00 N, 17 00 E

Liechtenstein
  47 16 N, 9 32 E

Lithuania
  56 00 N, 24 00 E

Luxembourg
  49 45 N, 6 10 E

Macau
  22 10 N, 113 33 E

Macedonia
  41 50 N, 22 00 E

Madagascar
  20 00 S, 47 00 E

Malawi
  13 30 S, 34 00 E

Malaysia
  2 30 N, 112 30 E

Maldives
  3 15 N, 73 00 E

Mali
  17 00 N, 4 00 W

Malta
  35 50 N, 14 35 E

Marshall Islands
  9 00 N, 168 00 E

Mauritania
  20 00 N, 12 00 W

Mauritius
  20 17 S, 57 33 E

Mayotte
  12 50 S, 45 10 E

Mexico
  23 00 N, 102 00 W

Micronesia, Federated States of
  6 55 N, 158 15 E

Moldova
  47 00 N, 29 00 E

Monaco
  43 44 N, 7 24 E

Mongolia
  46 00 N, 105 00 E

Montenegro
  42 30 N, 19 18 E

Montserrat
  16 45 N, 62 12 W

Morocco
  32 00 N, 5 00 W

Mozambique
  18 15 S, 35 00 E

Namibia
  22 00 S, 17 00 E

Nauru
  0 32 S, 166 55 E

Navassa Island
  18 25 N, 75 02 W

Nepal
  28 00 N, 84 00 E

Netherlands
  52 30 N, 5 45 E

Netherlands Antilles
  Bonaire: 12 12 N, 68 15 W
  Curacao: 12 10 N, 69 00 W
  Saba: 17 38 N, 63 14 W
  Sint Eustatius: 17 30 N, 62 58 W
  Sint Maarten: 18 04 N, 63 04 W

New Caledonia
  21 30 S, 165 30 E

New Zealand
  41 00 S, 174 00 E

Nicaragua
  13 00 N, 85 00 W

Niger
  16 00 N, 8 00 E

Nigeria
  10 00 N, 8 00 E

Niue
  19 02 S, 169 52 W

Norfolk Island
  29 02 S, 167 57 E

Northern Mariana Islands
  15 12 N, 145 45 E

Norway
  62 00 N, 10 00 E

Oman
  21 00 N, 57 00 E

Pacific Ocean
  0 00 N, 160 00 W

Pakistan
  30 00 N, 70 00 E

Palau
  7 30 N, 134 30 E

Panama
  9 00 N, 80 00 W

Papua New Guinea
  6 00 S, 147 00 E

Paracel Islands
  16 30 N, 112 00 E

Paraguay
  23 00 S, 58 00 W

Peru
  10 00 S, 76 00 W

Philippines
  13 00 N, 122 00 E

Pitcairn Islands
  25 04 S, 130 06 W

Poland
  52 00 N, 20 00 E

Portugal
  39 30 N, 8 00 W

Puerto Rico
  18 15 N, 66 30 W

Qatar
  25 30 N, 51 15 E

Romania
  46 00 N, 25 00 E

Russia
  60 00 N, 100 00 E

Rwanda
  2 00 S, 30 00 E

Saint Barthelemy
  17 90 N, 62 85 W

Saint Helena
  Saint Helena: 15 57 S, 5 42 W
  Ascension Island: 7 57 S, 14 22 W
  Tristan da Cunha island group: 37 15 S, 12 30 W

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  17 20 N, 62 45 W

Saint Lucia
  13 53 N, 60 58 W

Saint Martin
  18 05 N, 63 57 W

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  46 50 N, 56 20 W

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  13 15 N, 61 12 W

Samoa
  13 35 S, 172 20 W

San Marino
  43 46 N, 12 25 E

Sao Tome and Principe
  1 00 N, 7 00 E

Saudi Arabia
  25 00 N, 45 00 E

Senegal
  14 00 N, 14 00 W

Serbia
  44 00 N, 21 00 E

Seychelles
  4 35 S, 55 40 E

Sierra Leone
  8 30 N, 11 30 W

Singapore
  1 22 N, 103 48 E

Slovakia
  48 40 N, 19 30 E

Slovenia
  46 07 N, 14 49 E

Solomon Islands
  8 00 S, 159 00 E

Somalia
  10 00 N, 49 00 E

South Africa
  29 00 S, 24 00 E

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  54 30 S, 37 00 W

Southern Ocean
  60 00 S, 90 00 E (nominally), but the Southern Ocean
  has the unique distinction of being a large circumpolar body of
  water totally encircling the continent of Antarctica; this ring of
  water lies between 60 degrees south latitude and the coast of
  Antarctica and encompasses 360 degrees of longitude

Spain
  40 00 N, 4 00 W

Spratly Islands
  8 38 N, 111 55 E

Sri Lanka
  7 00 N, 81 00 E

Sudan
  15 00 N, 30 00 E

Suriname
  4 00 N, 56 00 W

Svalbard
  78 00 N, 20 00 E

Swaziland
  26 30 S, 31 30 E

Sweden
  62 00 N, 15 00 E

Switzerland
  47 00 N, 8 00 E

Syria
  35 00 N, 38 00 E

Taiwan
  23 30 N, 121 00 E

Tajikistan
  39 00 N, 71 00 E

Tanzania
  6 00 S, 35 00 E

Thailand
  15 00 N, 100 00 E

Timor-Leste
  8 50 S, 125 55 E

Togo
  8 00 N, 1 10 E

Tokelau
  9 00 S, 172 00 W

Tonga
  20 00 S, 175 00 W

Trinidad and Tobago
  11 00 N, 61 00 W

Tunisia
  34 00 N, 9 00 E

Turkey
  39 00 N, 35 00 E

Turkmenistan
  40 00 N, 60 00 E

Turks and Caicos Islands
  21 45 N, 71 35 W

Tuvalu
  8 00 S, 178 00 E

Uganda
  1 00 N, 32 00 E

Ukraine
  49 00 N, 32 00 E

United Arab Emirates
  24 00 N, 54 00 E

United Kingdom
  54 00 N, 2 00 W

United States
  38 00 N, 97 00 W

United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
  Baker Island: 0 13 N,
  176 28 W
  Howland Island: 0 48 N, 176 38 W
  Jarvis Island: 0 23 S, 160 01 W
  Johnston Atoll: 16 45 N, 169 31 W
  Kingman Reef: 6 23 N, 162 25 W
  Midway Islands: 28 12 N, 177 22 W
  Palmyra Atoll: 5 53 N, 162 05 W

Uruguay
  33 00 S, 56 00 W

Uzbekistan
  41 00 N, 64 00 E

Vanuatu
  16 00 S, 167 00 E

Venezuela
  8 00 N, 66 00 W

Vietnam
  16 00 N, 106 00 E

Virgin Islands
  18 20 N, 64 50 W

Wake Island
  19 17 N, 166 39 E

Wallis and Futuna
  13 18 S, 176 12 W

West Bank
  32 00 N, 35 15 E

Western Sahara
  24 30 N, 13 00 W

Yemen
  15 00 N, 48 00 E

Zambia
  15 00 S, 30 00 E

Zimbabwe
  20 00 S, 30 00 E

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2012  GDP - composition by sector (%)


Afghanistan
  agriculture: 38%
  industry: 24%
  services: 38%
  note: data exclude opium production (2005 est.)

Albania
  agriculture: 21.2%
  industry: 20.5%
  services: 58.3% (2007 est.)

Algeria
  agriculture: 8.2%
  industry: 61.5%
  services: 30.3% (2007 est.)

American Samoa
  agriculture: NA%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA%

Andorra
  agriculture: NA%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA%

Angola
  agriculture: 9.5%
  industry: 65.8%
  services: 24.6% (2007 est.)

Anguilla
  agriculture: 4%
  industry: 18%
  services: 78% (2002 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  agriculture: 3.8%
  industry: 22%
  services: 74.3% (2002 est.)

Argentina
  agriculture: 9.5%
  industry: 34%
  services: 56.5% (2007 est.)

Armenia
  agriculture: 17.2%
  industry: 36.4%
  services: 46.4% (2007 est.)

Aruba
  agriculture: 0.4%
  industry: 33.3%
  services: 66.3% (2002 est.)

Australia
  agriculture: 3%
  industry: 26.4%
  services: 70.6% (2007 est.)

Austria
  agriculture: 1.6%
  industry: 30.3%
  services: 68% (2007 est.)

Azerbaijan
  agriculture: 6.2%
  industry: 63.3%
  services: 30.5% (2007 est.)

Bahamas, The
  agriculture: 3%
  industry: 7%
  services: 90% (2001 est.)

Bahrain
  agriculture: 0.3%
  industry: 43.6%
  services: 56% (2007 est.)

Bangladesh
  agriculture: 19%
  industry: 28.7%
  services: 52.3% (2007 est.)

Barbados
  agriculture: 6%
  industry: 16%
  services: 78% (2000 est.)

Belarus
  agriculture: 8.7%
  industry: 40.6%
  services: 50.6% (2007 est.)

Belgium
  agriculture: 1.1%
  industry: 24.5%
  services: 74.4% (2007 est.)

Belize
  agriculture: 21.3%
  industry: 13.7%
  services: 65% (2007 est.)

Benin
  agriculture: 33.2%
  industry: 14.5%
  services: 52.3% (2007 est.)

Bermuda
  agriculture: 1%
  industry: 10%
  services: 89% (2002 est.)

Bhutan
  agriculture: 22.3%
  industry: 37.9%
  services: 39.8% (2006)

Bolivia
  agriculture: 14.5%
  industry: 30.5%
  services: 55% (2006 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  agriculture: 10.2%
  industry: 23.9%
  services: 66% (2006 est.)

Botswana
  agriculture: 1.6%
  industry: 51.5% (including 36% mining)
  services: 46.9% (2006 est.)

Brazil
  agriculture: 5.5%
  industry: 28.7%
  services: 65.8% (2007 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  agriculture: 1.8%
  industry: 6.2%
  services: 92% (1996 est.)

Brunei
  agriculture: 0.9%
  industry: 71.6%
  services: 27.5% (2005 est.)

Bulgaria
  agriculture: 6.2%
  industry: 32.3%
  services: 61.5% (2007 est.)

Burkina Faso
  agriculture: 29.7%
  industry: 19.4%
  services: 50.9% (2007 est.)

Burma
  agriculture: 42.4%
  industry: 18.9%
  services: 38.7% (2007 est.)

Burundi
  agriculture: 33.7%
  industry: 20.9%
  services: 45.4% (2007 est.)

Cambodia
  agriculture: 31%
  industry: 26%
  services: 43% (2007 est.)

Cameroon
  agriculture: 43.9%
  industry: 15.8%
  services: 40.3% (2007 est.)

Canada
  agriculture: 2.1%
  industry: 28.8%
  services: 69.1% (2007 est.)

Cape Verde
  agriculture: 9.3%
  industry: 16.7%
  services: 74% (2007 est.)

Cayman Islands
  agriculture: 1.4%
  industry: 3.2%
  services: 95.4% (1994 est.)

Central African Republic
  agriculture: 55%
  industry: 20%
  services: 25% (2001 est.)

Chad
  agriculture: 21.5%
  industry: 47.8%
  services: 30.6% (2007 est.)

Chile
  agriculture: 4.8%
  industry: 51.2%
  services: 44% (2007 est.)

China
  agriculture: 11.3%
  industry: 48.6%
  services: 40.1% (2007 est.)

Colombia
  agriculture: 11.5%
  industry: 36%
  services: 52.5% (2007 est.)

Comoros
  agriculture: 40%
  industry: 4%
  services: 56% (2001 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  agriculture: 55%
  industry: 11%
  services: 34% (2000 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  agriculture: 5.6%
  industry: 57.1%
  services: 37.3% (2006 est.)

Cook Islands
  agriculture: 15.1%
  industry: 9.6%
  services: 75.3% (2004)

Costa Rica
  agriculture: 8.6%
  industry: 29.4%
  services: 62.1% (2007 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  agriculture: 28.1%
  industry: 21.5%
  services: 50.5% (2007 est.)

Croatia
  agriculture: 7.2%
  industry: 31.7%
  services: 61.2% (2007 est.)

Cuba
  agriculture: 5.2%
  industry: 25%
  services: 69.8% (2007 est.)

Cyprus
  agriculture: 2.7%
  industry: 19.2%
  services: 78% (2007 est.)

Czech Republic
  agriculture: 2.7%
  industry: 38.7%
  services: 58.6% (2007 est.)

Denmark
  agriculture: 1.3%
  industry: 25.7%
  services: 73% (2007 est.)

Djibouti
  agriculture: 3.2%
  industry: 14.9%
  services: 81.9% (2006)

Dominica
  agriculture: 17.7%
  industry: 32.8%
  services: 49.5% (2004 est.)

Dominican Republic
  agriculture: 11.7%
  industry: 23.8%
  services: 64.4% (2007 est.)

Ecuador
  agriculture: 6.7%
  industry: 35.1%
  services: 58.2% (2007 est.)

Egypt
  agriculture: 13.8%
  industry: 38.1%
  services: 48% (2007 est.)

El Salvador
  agriculture: 10.8%
  industry: 30.8%
  services: 58.4% (2007 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  agriculture: 2.9%
  industry: 92.2%
  services: 4.8% (2007 est.)

Eritrea
  agriculture: 17.5%
  industry: 23.2%
  services: 59.3% (2007 est.)

Estonia
  agriculture: 3%
  industry: 28.5%
  services: 68.5% (2007 est.)

Ethiopia
  agriculture: 47%
  industry: 13.2%
  services: 39.8% (2007 est.)

European Union
  agriculture: 2.1%
  industry: 27.1%
  services: 70.7% (2006 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  agriculture: 95%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA%

Faroe Islands
  agriculture: 27%
  industry: 11%
  services: 62% (1999)

Fiji
  agriculture: 8.9%
  industry: 13.5%
  services: 77.6% (2004 est.)

Finland
  agriculture: 3.1%
  industry: 32.6%
  services: 64.3% (2007 est.)

France
  agriculture: 2.2%
  industry: 20.6%
  services: 77.2% (2007 est.)

French Polynesia
  agriculture: 3.1%
  industry: 19%
  services: 77.8% (2005)

Gabon
  agriculture: 6.1%
  industry: 58%
  services: 35.9% (2007 est.)

Gambia, The
  agriculture: 32.8%
  industry: 8.7%
  services: 58.5% (2007 est.)

Gaza Strip
  agriculture: 8%
  industry: 13%
  services: 79% (includes West Bank) (2006 est.)

Georgia
  agriculture: 13%
  industry: 28.7%
  services: 58.3% (2007 est.)

Germany
  agriculture: 0.9%
  industry: 30.1%
  services: 69% (2007 est.)

Ghana
  agriculture: 37.3%
  industry: 25.3%
  services: 37.5% (2006 est.)

Gibraltar
  agriculture: NA%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA%

Greece
  agriculture: 3.6%
  industry: 24.5%
  services: 71.9% (2007 est.)

Greenland
  agriculture: NA%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA%

Grenada
  agriculture: 5.4%
  industry: 18%
  services: 76.6% (2003)

Guam
  agriculture: NA%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA%

Guatemala
  agriculture: 13.3%
  industry: 25.8%
  services: 60.9% (2007 est.)

Guernsey
  agriculture: 3%
  industry: 10%
  services: 87% (2000)

Guinea
  agriculture: 23.8%
  industry: 38.6%
  services: 37.6% (2007 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  agriculture: 62%
  industry: 12%
  services: 26% (1999 est.)

Guyana
  agriculture: 31.1%
  industry: 21.7%
  services: 47.1% (2007 est.)

Haiti
  agriculture: 28%
  industry: 20%
  services: 52% (2004 est.)

Honduras
  agriculture: 13.4%
  industry: 28.1%
  services: 58.6% (2007 est.)

Hong Kong
  agriculture: 0.1%
  industry: 8.1%
  services: 91.7% (2007 est.)

Hungary
  agriculture: 2.8%
  industry: 31.5%
  services: 65.8% (2007 est.)

Iceland
  agriculture: 5.2%
  industry: 25.7%
  services: 69.1% (2007 est.)

India
  agriculture: 17.8%
  industry: 29.4%
  services: 52.8% (2007 est.)

Indonesia
  agriculture: 13.8%
  industry: 46.7%
  services: 39.4% (2007 est.)

Iran
  agriculture: 10.7%
  industry: 42.9%
  services: 46.5% (2007 est.)

Iraq
  agriculture: 5%
  industry: 68%
  services: 27% (2006 est.)

Ireland
  agriculture: 5%
  industry: 46%
  services: 49% (2002 est.)

Isle of Man
  agriculture: 1%
  industry: 13%
  services: 86% (2000 est.)

Israel
  agriculture: 2.7%
  industry: 30.2%
  services: 67.1% (2007 est.)

Italy
  agriculture: 2%
  industry: 27%
  services: 70.9% (2007 est.)

Jamaica
  agriculture: 5.1%
  industry: 32.7%
  services: 62.2% (2007 est.)

Japan
  agriculture: 1.4%
  industry: 26.5%
  services: 72% (2007 est.)

Jersey
  agriculture: 1%
  industry: 2%
  services: 97% (2005)

Jordan
  agriculture: 3.5%
  industry: 10.3%
  services: 86.2% (2007 est.)

Kazakhstan
  agriculture: 5.8%
  industry: 39.4%
  services: 54.8% (2007 est.)

Kenya
  agriculture: 23.8%
  industry: 16.7%
  services: 59.5% (2007 est.)

Kiribati
  agriculture: 8.9%
  industry: 24.2%
  services: 66.8% (2004)

Korea, North
  agriculture: 23.3%
  industry: 43.1%
  services: 33.6% (2002 est.)

Korea, South
  agriculture: 3%
  industry: 39.4%
  services: 57.6% (2007 est.)

Kosovo
  agriculture: 20%
  industry: 20%
  services: 60% (2007 est.)

Kuwait
  agriculture: 0.3%
  industry: 52.4%
  services: 47.3% (2007 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  agriculture: 33.6%
  industry: 18.9%
  services: 47.5% (2007 est.)

Laos
  agriculture: 40.9%
  industry: 33.2%
  services: 25.9% (2007 est.)

Latvia
  agriculture: 3.3%
  industry: 22%
  services: 74.7% (2007 est.)

Lebanon
  agriculture: 5.2%
  industry: 19.5%
  services: 75.4% (2007 est.)

Lesotho
  agriculture: 15.2%
  industry: 45%
  services: 39.7% (2007 est.)

Liberia
  agriculture: 76.9%
  industry: 5.4%
  services: 17.7% (2002 est.)

Libya
  agriculture: 2%
  industry: 83.1%
  services: 14.8% (2007 est.)

Liechtenstein
  agriculture: 6%
  industry: 39%
  services: 55% (2001)

Lithuania
  agriculture: 5.3%
  industry: 33.3%
  services: 61.4% (2007 est.)

Luxembourg
  agriculture: 1%
  industry: 13%
  services: 86% (2005 est.)

Macau
  agriculture: 0.1%
  industry: 3.9%
  services: 96% (2006 est.)

Macedonia
  agriculture: 11.9%
  industry: 28.2%
  services: 59.9% (2007 est.)

Madagascar
  agriculture: 26.8%
  industry: 15.8%
  services: 57.4% (2007 est.)

Malawi
  agriculture: 37.8%
  industry: 18.1%
  services: 44.1% (2007 est.)

Malaysia
  agriculture: 9.9%
  industry: 45.3%
  services: 44.8% (2007 est.)

Maldives
  agriculture: 16%
  industry: 7%
  services: 77% (2006 est.)

Mali
  agriculture: 45%
  industry: 17%
  services: 38% (2001 est.)

Malta
  agriculture: 2.7%
  industry: 22.3%
  services: 74.9% (2003 est.)

Marshall Islands
  agriculture: 31.7%
  industry: 14.9%
  services: 53.4% (2004 est.)

Mauritania
  agriculture: 25%
  industry: 29%
  services: 46% (2001 est.)

Mauritius
  agriculture: 4.8%
  industry: 25%
  services: 70.1% (2007 est.)

Mayotte
  agriculture: NA%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA%

Mexico
  agriculture: 4%
  industry: 26.6%
  services: 69.5% (2007 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  agriculture: 28.9%
  industry: 15.2%
  services: 55.9% (2004 est.)

Moldova
  agriculture: 17.8%
  industry: 21.7%
  services: 60.5% (2007 est.)

Monaco
  agriculture: 0%
  industry: 4.9%
  services: 95.1% (2005)

Mongolia
  agriculture: 18.8%
  industry: 40.4%
  services: 40.8% (2006)

Montenegro
  agriculture: NA%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA%

Montserrat
  agriculture: 1.2%
  industry: 23.1%
  services: 75.7% (1999 est.)

Morocco
  agriculture: 13.8%
  industry: 38.4%
  services: 47.8% (2007 est.)

Mozambique
  agriculture: 23%
  industry: 30.1%
  services: 46.9% (2007 est.)

Namibia
  agriculture: 10.6%
  industry: 35.4%
  services: 53.9% (2007 est.)

Nauru
  agriculture: NA%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA%

Nepal
  agriculture: 38%
  industry: 20%
  services: 42% (FY05/06 est.)

Netherlands
  agriculture: 2%
  industry: 24.4%
  services: 73.6% (2007 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  agriculture: 1%
  industry: 15%
  services: 84% (2000 est.)

New Caledonia
  agriculture: 15%
  industry: 8.8%
  services: 76.2% (2003)

New Zealand
  agriculture: 4.5%
  industry: 26.2%
  services: 69.3% (2007 est.)

Nicaragua
  agriculture: 16.9%
  industry: 25.8%
  services: 57.2% (2007 est.)

Niger
  agriculture: 39%
  industry: 17%
  services: 44% (2001)

Nigeria
  agriculture: 17.7%
  industry: 52.6%
  services: 29.8% (2007 est.)

Niue
  agriculture: 23.5%
  industry: 26.9%
  services: 49.5% (2003)

Northern Mariana Islands
  agriculture: NA%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA%

Norway
  agriculture: 2.4%
  industry: 41.9%
  services: 55.7% (2007 est.)

Oman
  agriculture: 2.2%
  industry: 38.2%
  services: 59.6% (2007 est.)

Pakistan
  agriculture: 20.6%
  industry: 26.6%
  services: 52.8% (2007 est.)

Palau
  agriculture: 6.2%
  industry: 12%
  services: 81.8% (2003)

Panama
  agriculture: 6.6%
  industry: 16.4%
  services: 77% (2007 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  agriculture: 34%
  industry: 37.3%
  services: 28.7% (2007 est.)

Paraguay
  agriculture: 22.7%
  industry: 17.6%
  services: 59.7% (2007 est.)

Peru
  agriculture: 8.4%
  industry: 25.6%
  services: 66% (2007 est.)

Philippines
  agriculture: 13.8%
  industry: 31.7%
  services: 54.5% (2007 est.)

Poland
  agriculture: 4.1%
  industry: 31.6%
  services: 64.4% (2007 est.)

Portugal
  agriculture: 8.2%
  industry: 25.4%
  services: 66.4% (2007 est.)

Puerto Rico
  agriculture: 1%
  industry: 45%
  services: 54% (2002 est.)

Qatar
  agriculture: 0.1%
  industry: 77.8%
  services: 22.1% (2007 est.)

Romania
  agriculture: 7.9%
  industry: 35.6%
  services: 56.5% (2007 est.)

Russia
  agriculture: 4.7%
  industry: 39.1%
  services: 56.2% (2007 est.)

Rwanda
  agriculture: 36.9%
  industry: 21.7%
  services: 41.4% (2007 est.)

Saint Helena
  agriculture: NA%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA%

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  agriculture: 3.5%
  industry: 25.8%
  services: 70.7% (2001)

Saint Lucia
  agriculture: 5%
  industry: 15%
  services: 80% (2005 est.)

Saint Martin
  agriculture: 1%
  industry: 15%
  services: 84% (2000)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  agriculture: NA%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA%

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  agriculture: 10%
  industry: 26%
  services: 64% (2001 est.)

Samoa
  agriculture: 11.4%
  industry: 58.4%
  services: 30.2% (2004 est.)

San Marino
  agriculture: NA%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA%

Sao Tome and Principe
  agriculture: 14.9%
  industry: 14%
  services: 71% (2007 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  agriculture: 3%
  industry: 63.7%
  services: 33.3% (2007 est.)

Senegal
  agriculture: 16%
  industry: 19.4%
  services: 64.6% (2007 est.)

Serbia
  agriculture: 12.3%
  industry: 24.2%
  services: 63.5% (2007 est.)

Seychelles
  agriculture: 2.1%
  industry: 28.3%
  services: 69.6% (2007 est.)

Sierra Leone
  agriculture: 49%
  industry: 31%
  services: 21% (2001 est.)

Singapore
  agriculture: 0%
  industry: 31.2%
  services: 68.8% (2007 est.)

Slovakia
  agriculture: 2.6%
  industry: 33.5%
  services: 63.9% (2007 est.)

Slovenia
  agriculture: 2.1%
  industry: 34.4%
  services: 63.5% (2007 est.)

Solomon Islands
  agriculture: 42%
  industry: 11%
  services: 47% (2000 est.)

Somalia
  agriculture: 65%
  industry: 10%
  services: 25% (2000 est.)

South Africa
  agriculture: 3.2%
  industry: 31.3%
  services: 65.5% (2007 est.)

Spain
  agriculture: 3.6%
  industry: 30.2%
  services: 66.1% (2007 est.)

Sri Lanka
  agriculture: 11.7%
  industry: 29.9%
  services: 58.4% (2007 est.)

Sudan
  agriculture: 32%
  industry: 32.8%
  services: 35.2% (2007 est.)

Suriname
  agriculture: 10.8%
  industry: 24.4%
  services: 64.8% (2005 est.)

Swaziland
  agriculture: 11.8%
  industry: 45.7%
  services: 42.5% (2007 est.)

Sweden
  agriculture: 1.5%
  industry: 28.8%
  services: 69.7% (2007 est.)

Switzerland
  agriculture: 1.5%
  industry: 34%
  services: 64.5% (2003 est.)

Syria
  agriculture: 24%
  industry: 27.9%
  services: 48.2% (2007 est.)

Taiwan
  agriculture: 1.4%
  industry: 27.5%
  services: 71.1% (2007 est.)

Tajikistan
  agriculture: 23.8%
  industry: 30.4%
  services: 45.8% (2007 est.)

Tanzania
  agriculture: 42.5%
  industry: 18.9%
  services: 38.5% (2007 est.)

Thailand
  agriculture: 11.4%
  industry: 43.8%
  services: 44.8% (2007 est.)

Timor-Leste
  agriculture: 32.2%
  industry: 12.8%
  services: 55% (2005)

Togo
  agriculture: 40%
  industry: 25%
  services: 35% (2003 est.)

Tokelau
  agriculture: NA%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA%

Tonga
  agriculture: 25%
  industry: 17%
  services: 57% (FY05/06 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  agriculture: 0.6%
  industry: 62%
  services: 37.5% (2007 est.)

Tunisia
  agriculture: 11.6%
  industry: 25.7%
  services: 62.8% (2007 est.)

Turkey
  agriculture: 8.9%
  industry: 28.3%
  services: 62.8% (2007 est.)

Turkmenistan
  agriculture: 11.5%
  industry: 40.8%
  services: 47.7% (2007 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  agriculture: NA%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA%

Tuvalu
  agriculture: 16.6%
  industry: 27.2%
  services: 56.2% (2002)

Uganda
  agriculture: 30.2%
  industry: 24.7%
  services: 45.1% (2007 est.)

Ukraine
  agriculture: 9%
  industry: 32.2%
  services: 58.8% (2007 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  agriculture: 1.8%
  industry: 60.6%
  services: 37.6% (2007 est.)

United Kingdom
  agriculture: 0.9%
  industry: 23.4%
  services: 75.7% (2007 est.)

United States
  agriculture: 1.2%
  industry: 19.8%
  services: 79% (2007 est.)

Uruguay
  agriculture: 10.1%
  industry: 32%
  services: 57.9% (2007 est.)

Uzbekistan
  agriculture: 29.4%
  industry: 33.1%
  services: 37.5% (2007 est.)

Vanuatu
  agriculture: 26%
  industry: 12%
  services: 62% (2000 est.)

Venezuela
  agriculture: 3.8%
  industry: 38.4%
  services: 57.8% (2007 est.)

Vietnam
  agriculture: 19.5%
  industry: 42.3%
  services: 38.2% (2007 est.)

Virgin Islands
  agriculture: 1%
  industry: 19%
  services: 80% (2003 est.)

Wallis and Futuna
  agriculture: NA%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA%

West Bank
  agriculture: 8%
  industry: 13%
  services: 79% (includes Gaza Strip) (2006 est.)

Western Sahara
  agriculture: NA%
  industry: NA%
  services: 40%

World
  agriculture: 4%
  industry: 32%
  services: 64% (2007 est.)

Yemen
  agriculture: 12.4%
  industry: 40.9%
  services: 46.7% (2007 est.)

Zambia
  agriculture: 17.4%
  industry: 26.1%
  services: 56.5% (2007 est.)

Zimbabwe
  agriculture: 18.1%
  industry: 22.6%
  services: 59.3% (2007 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2013  Radio broadcast stations


Afghanistan
  AM 21, FM 5, shortwave 1 (broadcasts in Pashto, Dari
  (Afghan Persian), Urdu, and English) (2006)

Akrotiri
  AM NA, FM 1, shortwave NA (British Forces Broadcasting
  Service (BFBS) provides Radio 1 and Radio 2 service to Akrotiri,
  Dhekelia, and Nicosia) (2006)

Albania
  AM 13, FM 46, shortwave 1 (2005)

Algeria
  AM 25, FM 1, shortwave 8 (1999)

American Samoa
  AM 2, FM 3, shortwave 0 (2005)

Andorra
  AM 0, FM 15, shortwave 0 (1998)

Angola
  AM 21, FM 6, shortwave 7 (2001)

Anguilla
  AM 2, FM 7, shortwave 0 (2004)

Antarctica
  FM 2, shortwave 1 (information for US bases only); note -
  many research stations have a local FM radio station (2007)

Antigua and Barbuda
  AM 4, FM 2, shortwave 0 (1998)

Argentina
  AM 260 (includes 10 inactive stations), FM (probably more
  than 1,000, mostly unlicensed), shortwave 6 (1998)

Armenia
  AM 9, FM 16, shortwave 1 (2006)

Aruba
  AM 2, FM 16, shortwave 0 (2004)

Australia
  AM 262, FM 345, shortwave 1 (1998)

Austria
  AM 2, FM 65 (plus several hundred repeaters), shortwave 1
  (2001)

Azerbaijan
  AM 10, FM 17, shortwave 1 (1998)

Bahamas, The
  AM 3, FM 5, shortwave 0 (2006)

Bahrain
  AM 2, FM 3, shortwave 0 (1998)

Bangladesh
  AM 15, FM 13, shortwave 2 (2006)

Barbados
  AM 2, FM 6, shortwave 0 (2004)

Belarus
  AM 28, FM 37, shortwave 11 (1998)

Belgium
  AM 7, FM 79, shortwave 1 (1998)

Belize
  AM 1, FM 16, shortwave 0 (2006)

Benin
  AM 1, FM 34, shortwave 1 (2007)

Bermuda
  AM 5, FM 3, shortwave 0 (2005)

Bhutan
  AM 0, FM 9, shortwave 1 (2007)

Bolivia
  AM 171, FM 73, shortwave 77 (1999)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  AM 8, FM 16, shortwave 1 (1998)

Botswana
  AM 8, FM 13, shortwave 4 (2001)

Brazil
  AM 1,365, FM 296, shortwave 161 (of which 91 are collocated
  with AM stations) (1999)

British Indian Ocean Territory
  AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 0 (1998)

British Virgin Islands
  AM 1, FM 5, shortwave 0 (2004)

Brunei
  AM 1, FM 2 (transmitting on 18 different frequencies),
  shortwave 0 (British Forces Broadcasting Service (BFBS) station
  transmits two FM signals with English and Nepali service) (2006)

Bulgaria
  AM 31, FM 63, shortwave 2 (2001)

Burkina Faso
  AM 2, FM 26, shortwave 3

Burma
  AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 3 (2007)

Burundi
  AM 0, FM 4, shortwave 1 (2001)

Cambodia
  AM 2, FM 17, shortwave NA (2003)

Cameroon
  AM 2, FM 9, shortwave 3 (2001)

Canada
  AM 245, FM 582, shortwave 6 (2004)

Cape Verde
  AM 0, FM 22 (plus 12 repeaters), shortwave 0 (2001)

Cayman Islands
  AM 1, FM 4, shortwave 0 (2004)

Central African Republic
  AM 1, FM 5, shortwave 1 (2001)

Chad
  AM 2, FM 4, shortwave 5 (2001)

Chile
  AM 180 (8 inactive), FM 64, shortwave 17 (1 inactive) (1998)

China
  AM 369, FM 259, shortwave 45 (1998)

Christmas Island
  AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 0 (2006)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 0 (2004)

Colombia
  AM 454, FM 34, shortwave 27 (1999)

Comoros
  AM 1, FM 4, shortwave 1 (2001)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  AM 3, FM 11, shortwave 2 (2001)

Congo, Republic of the
  AM 1, FM 5, shortwave 3 (2001)

Cook Islands
  AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 0 (2004)

Costa Rica
  AM 65, FM 51, shortwave 19 (2002)

Cote d'Ivoire
  AM 2, FM 9, shortwave 3 (1998)

Croatia
  AM 16, FM 98, shortwave 5 (1999)

Cuba
  AM 169, FM 55, shortwave 1 (1998)

Cyprus
  area under government control: AM 5, FM 76, shortwave 0
  area administered by Turkish Cypriots: AM 1, FM 20, shortwave 1
  (2004)

Czech Republic
  AM 31, FM 304, shortwave 17 (2000)

Denmark
  AM 2, FM 355, shortwave 0 (1998)

Dhekelia
  AM NA, FM 1 (located in Akrotiri), shortwave NA (British
  Forces Broadcasting Service (BFBS) provides Radio 1 and Radio 2
  service to Akrotiri, Dhekelia, and Nicosia) (2006)

Djibouti
  AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 0 (2001)

Dominica
  AM 2, FM 4, shortwave 0 (2003)

Dominican Republic
  AM 120, FM 56, shortwave 4 (1998)

Ecuador
  AM 392, FM 35, shortwave 29 (2001)

Egypt
  AM 42 (plus 15 repeaters), FM 14, shortwave 3 (1999)

El Salvador
  AM 52, FM 144, shortwave 0 (2005)

Equatorial Guinea
  AM 0, FM 3, shortwave 5 (2001)

Eritrea
  AM 2, FM NA, shortwave 2 (2000)

Estonia
  AM 0, FM 98, shortwave 0 (2001)

Ethiopia
  AM 8, FM 0, shortwave 1 (2001)

European Union
  AM 930, FM 13,655, shortwave 71 (1998); note - sum of
  individual country radio broadcast stations; there is also a
  European-wide station (Euroradio)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  AM 1, FM 7, shortwave 0 (British
  Forces Broadcasting Service (BFBS) provides Radio 1 and Radio 2
  service) (2006)

Faroe Islands
  AM 1, FM 13, shortwave 0 (1998)

Fiji
  AM 13, FM 40, shortwave 0 (1998)

Finland
  AM 2, FM 186, shortwave 1 (1998)

France
  AM 41, FM about 3,500 (this figure is an approximation and
  includes many repeaters), shortwave 2 (1998)

French Polynesia
  AM 2, FM 14, shortwave 2 (1998)

Gabon
  AM 6, FM 7 (plus 11 repeaters), shortwave 4 (2001)

Gambia, The
  AM 3, FM 2, shortwave 0 (2001)

Gaza Strip
  AM 0, FM 10, shortwave 0 (2008)

Georgia
  AM 7, FM 12, shortwave 4 (1998)

Germany
  AM 51, FM 787, shortwave 4 (1998)

Ghana
  AM 0, FM 86, shortwave 3 (2007)

Gibraltar
  AM 1, FM 5, shortwave 0 (1998)

Greece
  AM 26, FM 88, shortwave 4 (1998)

Greenland
  AM 5, FM 12, shortwave 0 (1998)

Grenada
  AM 2, FM 13, shortwave 0 (1998)

Guam
  AM 3, FM 11, shortwave 2 (2005)

Guatemala
  AM 130, FM 487, shortwave 15 (2000)

Guernsey
  AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 0 (1998)

Guinea
  AM 0, FM 5, shortwave 3 (2006)

Guinea-Bissau
  AM 1 (transmitter out of service), FM 4, shortwave 0
  (2001)

Guyana
  AM 3, FM 3, shortwave 1 (1998)

Haiti
  AM 41, FM 26, shortwave 0 (1999)

Holy See (Vatican City)
  AM 4, FM 3, shortwave 2 (2004)

Honduras
  AM 241, FM 53, shortwave 12 (1998)

Hong Kong
  AM 5, FM 9, shortwave 0 (2004)

Hungary
  AM 17, FM 57, shortwave 3 (1998)

Iceland
  AM 3, FM about 70 (including repeaters), shortwave 1 (1998)

India
  AM 153, FM 91, shortwave 68 (1998)

Indonesia
  AM 678, FM 43, shortwave 82 (1998)

Iran
  AM 72, FM 5, shortwave 5 (1998)

Iraq
  after 17 months of unregulated media growth, there are
  approximately 80 radio stations (types NA) on the air inside Iraq
  (2004)

Ireland
  AM 9, FM 106, shortwave 0 (1998)

Isle of Man
  AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 0 (1998)

Israel
  AM 23, FM 15, shortwave 2 (1998)

Italy
  AM about 100, FM about 4,600, shortwave 9 (1998)

Jamaica
  AM 10, FM 13, shortwave 0 (1998)

Jan Mayen
  NA; note - there is one radio and meteorological station
  (1998)

Japan
  AM 215 (plus 370 repeaters), FM 89 (plus 485 repeaters),
  shortwave 21 (2001)

Jersey
  AM NA, FM 1, shortwave 0 (1998)

Jordan
  FM 31 (2007)

Kazakhstan
  AM 60, FM 17, shortwave 9 (1998)

Kenya
  AM 24, FM 18, shortwave 6 (2001)

Kiribati
  AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 1 (may be inactive) (2002)

Korea, North
  AM 17 (including 11 stations of Korean Central
  Broadcasting Station; North Korea has a "national intercom" cable
  radio station wired throughout the country that is a significant
  source of information for the average North Korean citizen; it is
  wired into most residences and workplaces and carries news and
  commentary), FM 14, shortwave 14 (2006)

Korea, South
  AM 61, FM 150, shortwave 2 (2005)

Kuwait
  AM 6, FM 11, shortwave 1 (1998)

Kyrgyzstan
  AM 3 (plus 10 repeater stations), FM 23, shortwave NA
  (2007)

Laos
  AM 7, FM 14, shortwave 2 (2006)

Latvia
  AM 8, FM 56, shortwave 1 (1998)

Lebanon
  AM 20, FM 22, shortwave 4 (1998)

Lesotho
  AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 1 (1998)

Liberia
  AM 0, FM 10, shortwave 2 (2007)

Libya
  AM 16, FM 3, shortwave 3 (2001)

Liechtenstein
  AM 0, FM 4, shortwave 0 (1998)

Lithuania
  AM 29, FM 142, shortwave 1 (2001)

Luxembourg
  AM 2, FM 9, shortwave 2 (1999)

Macau
  AM 0, FM 2, shortwave 0 (1998)

Macedonia
  AM 29, FM 63, shortwave 0 (2007)

Madagascar
  AM 2 (plus a number of repeater stations), FM 9,
  shortwave 6 (2001)

Malawi
  AM 9, FM 5 (plus 15 repeater stations), shortwave 2 (plus one
  shortwave station on standby) (2001)

Malaysia
  AM 35, FM 391, shortwave 15 (2001)

Maldives
  AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 1 (1998)

Mali
  AM 1, FM 230 (27 regional and government stations, and 203
  private stations), shortwave 1 (2001)

Malta
  AM 1, FM 18, shortwave 6 (1999)

Marshall Islands
  AM 1, FM 3, shortwave 0 (additionally, the US Armed
  Forces Radio and Television Services (Central Pacific Network)
  operate one FM and one AM station on Kwajalein) (2005)

Mauritania
  AM 1, FM 14, shortwave 1 (2001)

Mauritius
  AM 4, FM 9, shortwave 0 (2001)

Mayotte
  AM 1, FM 5, shortwave 0 (2001)

Mexico
  AM 850, FM 545, shortwave 15 (2003)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  AM 5, FM 1, shortwave 0 (2004)

Moldova
  AM 2, FM 29, shortwave NA (2006)

Monaco
  AM 1, FM NA, shortwave 8 (1998)

Mongolia
  AM 7, FM 115 (includes 20 National radio broadcaster
  repeaters), shortwave 4 (2006)

Montenegro
  31 (station types NA) (2004)

Montserrat
  AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 0 (1998)

Morocco
  AM 27, FM 25, shortwave 6 (1998)

Mozambique
  AM 13, FM 17, shortwave 11 (2001)

Namibia
  AM 2, FM 39, shortwave 4 (2001)

Nauru
  AM 1, FM 0, shortwave 0 (1998)

Nepal
  AM 6, FM 5, shortwave 1 (2000)

Netherlands
  AM 4, FM 246, shortwave 3 (2004)

Netherlands Antilles
  AM 8, FM 19, shortwave 0 (2003)

New Caledonia
  AM 1, FM 5, shortwave 0 (1998)

New Zealand
  AM 124, FM 290, shortwave 4 (1998)

Nicaragua
  AM 63, FM 32, shortwave 1 (1998)

Niger
  AM 5, FM 6, shortwave 4 (2001)

Nigeria
  AM 83, FM 36, shortwave 11 (2001)

Niue
  AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 0 (1998)

Norfolk Island
  AM 1, FM 3, shortwave 0 (2005)

Northern Mariana Islands
  AM 1, FM 6, shortwave 1 (2005)

Norway
  AM 5, FM at least 650, shortwave 1 (1998)

Oman
  AM 3, FM 9, shortwave 2 (1999)

Pakistan
  AM 31, FM 68, shortwave NA (2006)

Palau
  AM 1, FM 4, shortwave 1 (2001)

Panama
  AM 101, FM 134, shortwave 0 (1998)

Papua New Guinea
  AM 8, FM 19, shortwave 28 (1998)

Paraguay
  AM 41, FM 121, shortwave 6 (3 inactive) (2006)

Peru
  AM 472, FM 198, shortwave 189 (1999)

Philippines
  AM 381, FM 628, shortwave 4 (each shortwave station
  operates on multiple frequencies in the language of the target
  audience) (2007)

Pitcairn Islands
  AM 1, FM 0, shortwave 0 (15 Ham radio operators
  (VP6)) (2004)

Poland
  AM 14, FM 777, shortwave 1 (1998)

Portugal
  AM 47, FM 172 (many are repeaters), shortwave 2 (1998)

Puerto Rico
  AM 74, FM 53, shortwave 0 (2005)

Qatar
  AM 6, FM 5, shortwave 1 (1998)

Romania
  698 (frequency type NA) (2006)

Russia
  AM 323, FM 1,500 est., shortwave 62 (2004)

Rwanda
  AM 0, FM 8 (two main FM programs are broadcast through a
  system of repeaters, three international FM programs include the
  BBC, VOA, and Deutchewelle), shortwave 1 (2005)

Saint Helena
  Saint Helena: AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 0
  Ascension: AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 1 (2005)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  AM 3, FM 3, shortwave 0 (2003)

Saint Lucia
  AM 2, FM 7, shortwave 0 (2003)

Saint Martin
  FM 3 (2007)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  AM 1, FM 4, shortwave 0 (1998)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  AM 1, FM 6, shortwave 0 (2004)

Samoa
  AM 2, FM 5, shortwave 0 (2004)

San Marino
  AM 0, FM 3, shortwave 0 (1998)

Sao Tome and Principe
  AM 1, FM 5, shortwave 1 (2001)

Saudi Arabia
  AM 43, FM 31, shortwave 2 (1998)

Senegal
  AM 8, FM 20, shortwave 1 (2001)

Serbia
  153 (station types NA) (2001)

Seychelles
  AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 2 (2001)

Sierra Leone
  AM 1, FM 9, shortwave 1 (2001)

Singapore
  AM 0, FM 17, shortwave 2 (2003)

Slovakia
  AM 15, FM 78, shortwave 2 (1998)

Slovenia
  AM 10, FM 230, shortwave 0 (2006)

Solomon Islands
  AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 1 (2004)

Somalia
  AM 0, FM 11 (also 1 station each in Puntland and
  Somaliland), shortwave 1 (in Mogadishu) (2001)

South Africa
  AM 14, FM 347 (plus 243 repeaters), shortwave 1 (1998)

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  0 (2003)

Spain
  AM 208, FM 715, shortwave 1 (1998)

Sri Lanka
  AM 15, FM 52, shortwave 4 (2007)

Sudan
  AM 12, FM 1, shortwave 1 (1998)

Suriname
  AM 4, FM 13, shortwave 1 (1998)

Svalbard
  AM 1, FM 1 (plus 2 repeaters), shortwave 0 (1998)

Swaziland
  AM 3, FM 2 (plus 4 repeaters), shortwave 3 (2004)

Sweden
  AM 1, FM 265, shortwave 1 (1998)

Switzerland
  AM 4, FM 113 (plus many low-power stations), shortwave 2
  (1998)

Syria
  AM 14, FM 2, shortwave 1 (1998)

Taiwan
  AM 140, FM 229, shortwave 49

Tajikistan
  AM 8, FM 10, shortwave 2 (2002)

Tanzania
  AM 12, FM 11, shortwave 2 (1998)

Thailand
  AM 238, FM 351, shortwave 6 (2007)

Timor-Leste
  at least 21 (Timor-Leste has one national public
  broadcaster and 20 community and church radio stations - frequency
  type NA)

Togo
  AM 2, FM 9, shortwave 4 (1998)

Tokelau
  AM NA, FM NA, shortwave NA (one radio station provides
  service to all islands) (2002)

Tonga
  AM 1, FM 4, shortwave 1 (2001)

Trinidad and Tobago
  AM 4, FM 18, shortwave 0 (2001)

Tunisia
  AM 7, FM 38, shortwave 2 (2007)

Turkey
  AM 16, FM 107, shortwave 6 (2001)

Turkmenistan
  AM 16, FM 8, shortwave 2 (1998)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  AM 2, FM 7, shortwave 0 (2003)

Tuvalu
  AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 0 (2004)

Uganda
  AM 7, FM 33, shortwave 2 (2001)

Ukraine
  524 (station types NA) (2006)

United Arab Emirates
  AM 13, FM 8, shortwave 2 (2004)

United Kingdom
  AM 219, FM 431, shortwave 3 (1998)

United States
  AM 4,789, FM 8,961, shortwave 19 (2006)

Uruguay
  AM 93, FM 191, shortwave 7 (2005)

Uzbekistan
  AM 4, FM 6, shortwave 3 (2006)

Vanuatu
  AM 2, FM 4, shortwave 1 (2001)

Venezuela
  AM 201, FM NA (20 in Caracas), shortwave 11 (1998)

Vietnam
  AM 65, FM 7, shortwave 29 (1999)

Virgin Islands
  AM 6, FM 16, shortwave 0 (2005)

Wake Island
  AM 0, FM 0, shortwave 0 (Armed Forces Radio/Television
  Service (AFRTS) radio service provided by satellite (2005)

Wallis and Futuna
  AM 1, FM 0, shortwave 0 (2000)

West Bank
  AM 0, FM 25, shortwave 0 (2008)

Western Sahara
  AM 2, FM 0, shortwave 0 (1998)

World
  AM NA, FM NA, shortwave NA

Yemen
  AM 6, FM 1, shortwave 2 (1998)

Zambia
  AM 19, FM 5, shortwave 4 (2001)

Zimbabwe
  AM 7, FM 20 (plus 17 repeater stations), shortwave 1 (1998)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2015  Television broadcast stations


Afghanistan
  at least 7 (1 government-run central television station
  in Kabul and regional stations in 6 of the 34 provinces) (2006)

Akrotiri
  0 (British Forces Broadcasting Service (BFBS) provides
  multi-channel satellite service to Akrotiri, Dhekelia, and Nicosia)
  (2006)

Albania
  65 (3 national, 62 local); 2 cable networks (2005)

Algeria
  46 (plus 216 repeaters) (1995)

American Samoa
  1 (2006)

Andorra
  0 (1997)

Angola
  6 (2000)

Anguilla
  1 (1997)

Antarctica
  1 (cable system with 6 channels; American Forces
  Antarctic Network-McMurdo - information for US bases only) (2002)

Antigua and Barbuda
  2 (1997)

Argentina
  42 (plus 444 repeaters) (1997)

Armenia
  48 (private television stations alongside 2 public networks;
  major Russian channels widely available) (2006)

Aruba
  1 (1997)

Australia
  104 (1997)

Austria
  10 (plus more than 1,000 repeaters) (2001)

Azerbaijan
  2 (1997)

Bahamas, The
  2 (2006)

Bahrain
  4 (1997)

Bangladesh
  15 (1999)

Barbados
  1 (plus 2 cable channels) (2004)

Belarus
  47 (plus 27 repeaters) (1995)

Belgium
  25 (plus 10 repeaters) (1997)

Belize
  5 (2006)

Benin
  6 (2007)

Bermuda
  3 (2005)

Bhutan
  1 (2007)

Bolivia
  48 (1997)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  33 (plus 277 repeaters) (September 1995)

Botswana
  2 (1 state-owned, 1 private)

Brazil
  138 (1997)

British Indian Ocean Territory
  1 (1997)

British Virgin Islands
  1 (plus 1 cable company) (1997)

Brunei
  4 (includes 2 UHF stations broadcasting a subscription
  service) (2006)

Bulgaria
  39 (plus 1,242 repeaters) (2001)

Burkina Faso
  3 (1 national, 2 private)

Burma
  4 (2008)

Burundi
  1 (2001)

Cambodia
  9 (including 2 TV relay stations with French and Vietnamese
  broadcasts); excludes 18 regional relay stations (2006)

Cameroon
  1 (2001)

Canada
  80 (plus many repeaters) (1997)

Cape Verde
  1 (plus 7 repeaters) (2001)

Cayman Islands
  4 with cable system (2004)

Central African Republic
  1 (2001)

Chad
  1 (2001)

Chile
  63 (plus 121 repeaters) (1997)

China
  3,240 (of which 209 are operated by China Central Television,
  31 are provincial TV stations, and nearly 3,000 are local city
  stations) (1997)

Christmas Island
  0 (TV broadcasts received via satellite from
  mainland Australia) (2006)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  4 (2007)

Colombia
  60 (1997)

Comoros
  NA

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  4 (2001)

Congo, Republic of the
  1 (2001)

Cook Islands
  1 (outer islands receive satellite broadcasts) (2004)

Costa Rica
  20 (plus 43 repeaters) (2002)

Cote d'Ivoire
  14 (1998)

Croatia
  36 (plus 321 repeaters) (1995)

Cuba
  58 (1997)

Cyprus
  area under government control: 8
  area administered by Turkish Cypriots: 2 (plus 4 relay) (2004)

Czech Republic
  150 (plus 1,434 repeaters) (2000)

Denmark
  26 (plus 51 repeaters) (1998)

Dhekelia
  0 (British Forces Broadcasting Service (BFBS) provides
  multi-channel satellite service to Akrotiri, Dhekelia, and Nicosia)
  (2006)

Djibouti
  1 (2001)

Dominica
  1 (2004)

Dominican Republic
  25 (2003)

Ecuador
  7 (plus 14 repeaters) (2000)

Egypt
  98 (September 1995)

El Salvador
  5 (1997)

Equatorial Guinea
  1 (2001)

Eritrea
  2 (2006)

Estonia
  3 (2001)

Ethiopia
  1 (plus 24 repeaters) (2001)

European Union
  2,700 (1995); note - sum of individual country
  television broadcast stations excluding repeaters; there is also a
  European-wide station (Eurovision)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  2 (British Forces Broadcasting
  Service (BFBS) provides multi-channel satellite service to members
  of UK Forces as well as islanders); cable television is available in
  Stanley (2006)

Faroe Islands
  3 (plus 43 repeaters) (September 1995)

Fiji
  NA

Finland
  120 (plus 431 repeaters) (1999); note - On 1 September 2007,
  Finland became one of the first countries in the world to broadcast
  all television signals digitally

France
  584 (plus 9,676 repeaters) (1995)

French Polynesia
  7 (plus 17 repeaters) (1997)

Gabon
  4 (plus 4 repeaters) (2001)

Gambia, The
  1 (government-owned) (1997)

Gaza Strip
  1 (2008)

Georgia
  12 (plus repeaters) (1998)

Germany
  373 (plus 8,042 repeaters) (1995)

Ghana
  7 (2007)

Gibraltar
  1 (plus 3 repeaters) (1997)

Greece
  36 (plus 1,341 repeaters); also 2 stations in the US Armed
  Forces Radio and Television Service (1995)

Greenland
  1 (plus some local low-power stations, and 3 Armed Forces
  Radio and Television Service (AFRTS) stations (1997)

Grenada
  2 (1997)

Guam
  3 (2006)

Guatemala
  26 (plus 27 repeaters) (1997)

Guernsey
  1 (1997)

Guinea
  6 (2001)

Guinea-Bissau
  NA (2005)

Guyana
  3 (1 public station; 2 private stations which relay US
  satellite services) (1997)

Haiti
  2 (plus a cable TV service) (1997)

Holy See (Vatican City)
  1 (2005)

Honduras
  11 (plus 17 repeaters) (1997)

Hong Kong
  55 (2 TV networks, each broadcasting on 2 channels) (2007)

Hungary
  35 (plus 161 repeaters) (1995)

Iceland
  14 (plus 156 repeaters) (1997)

India
  562 (1997)

Indonesia
  54 local TV stations (11 national TV networks; each with
  its group of local transmitters) (2006)

Iran
  28 (plus 450 repeaters) (1997)

Iraq
  21 (2004)

Ireland
  4 (many repeaters) (2001)

Isle of Man
  0 (receives broadcasts from the UK and satellite) (1999)

Israel
  17 (plus 36 repeaters) (1995)

Italy
  358 (plus 4,728 repeaters) (1995)

Jamaica
  7 (1997)

Japan
  211 (plus 7,341 repeaters); in addition, US Forces are served
  by 3 TV stations and 2 TV cable services (1999)

Jersey
  2 (1997)

Jordan
  22 (2007)

Kazakhstan
  12 (plus 9 repeaters) (1998)

Kenya
  8 (2001)

Kiribati
  1 (possibly inactive) (2002)

Korea, North
  4 (includes Korean Central Television, Mansudae
  Television, Korean Educational and Cultural Network, and Kaesong
  Television targeting South Korea) (2003)

Korea, South
  43 (plus 59 cable operators and 190 relay cable
  operators) (2005)

Kuwait
  13 (plus several satellite channels) (1997)

Kyrgyzstan
  8 (2 countrywide and 6 regional stations; state-owned);
  note - there are about 20 private TV stations, most of which
  rebroadcast other channels (2007)

Laos
  7 (includes 1 station relaying Vietnam Television from Hanoi)
  (2006)

Latvia
  44 (plus 31 repeaters) (1995)

Lebanon
  15 (plus 5 repeaters) (1995)

Lesotho
  1 (2000)

Liberia
  4 (plus 4 repeaters) (2007)

Libya
  12 (plus 1 repeater) (1999)

Liechtenstein
  NA (linked to Swiss networks) (1997)

Lithuania
  27 (may have as many as 100 transmitters, including
  repeater stations) (2001)

Luxembourg
  5 (1999)

Macau
  1 (2006)

Macedonia
  52 (2007)

Madagascar
  1 (plus 36 repeaters) (2001)

Malawi
  1 (2001)

Malaysia
  88 (mainland Malaysia 51, Sabah 16, and Sarawak 21) (2006)

Maldives
  1 (2006)

Mali
  2 (plus repeaters) (2007)

Malta
  5 (2006)

Marshall Islands
  2 (both are US military stations; Marshalls
  Broadcasting Service, a cable company, operates on Majuro) (2005)

Mauritania
  1 (2002)

Mauritius
  2 (plus several repeaters) (1997)

Mayotte
  3 (2001)

Mexico
  236 (plus repeaters) (1997)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  3 (cable TV also available) (2004)

Moldova
  40 (2006)

Monaco
  5 (1998)

Mongolia
  456 (including provincial and low-power repeaters) (2006)

Montenegro
  13 (2004)

Montserrat
  1 (1997)

Morocco
  35 (plus 66 repeaters) (1995)

Mozambique
  1 (2000)

Namibia
  2 (2007)

Nauru
  1 (1997)

Nepal
  1 (plus 9 repeaters) (1998)

Netherlands
  21 (plus 26 repeaters) (1995)

Netherlands Antilles
  3 (there is also a cable service that supplies
  programs received from various US satellite networks and 4
  Venezuelan channels) (2003)

New Caledonia
  6 (plus 25 repeaters) (1997)

New Zealand
  41 (plus about 700 repeaters) (1997)

Nicaragua
  3 (plus 7 repeaters) (1997)

Niger
  5 (2007)

Nigeria
  3 (the government controls 2 of the broadcasting stations
  and 15 repeater stations) (2001)

Niue
  1 (1997)

Norfolk Island
  1 (local programming station plus 2 repeaters that
  air Australian programs by satellite) (2005)

Northern Mariana Islands
  1 (on Saipan; in addition, 2 cable services
  on Saipan provide varied programming from satellite networks) (2006)

Norway
  360 (plus 2,729 repeaters) (1995)

Oman
  13 (plus 25 repeaters) (1999)

Pakistan
  20 (5 state-run channels and 15 privately-owned satellite
  channels) (2006)

Palau
  1 (cable) (2005)

Panama
  38 (including repeaters) (1998)

Papua New Guinea
  3 (all in the Port Moresby area; stations at Mt.
  Hagen, Goroka, Lae, and Rabaul are planned) (2004)

Paraguay
  5 (2007)

Peru
  13 (plus 112 repeaters) (1997)

Philippines
  250 (plus 1,501 CATV networks) (2007)

Poland
  40 (2006)

Portugal
  62 (plus 166 repeaters; includes Azores and Madeira
  Islands) (1995)

Puerto Rico
  32 (2006)

Qatar
  1 (plus 3 repeaters) (2001)

Romania
  623 (plus 200 repeaters) (2006)

Russia
  7,306 (1998)

Rwanda
  2 (2004)

Saint Helena
  0 (3 television channels are received via satellite and
  distributed by UHF) (2005)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  1 (plus 3 repeaters) (2003)

Saint Lucia
  2 (1 commercial broadcast station and 1 community
  antenna television or CATV channel) (2003)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  0 (2 repeaters rebroadcast programs from
  France, Canada, and the US) (1997)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  1 (plus 3 repeaters) (2004)

Samoa
  2 (2002)

San Marino
  1 (San Marino residents also receive broadcasts from
  Italy) (1997)

Sao Tome and Principe
  2 (2001)

Saudi Arabia
  117 (1997)

Senegal
  4 (2007)

Seychelles
  2 (plus 9 repeaters) (1997)

Sierra Leone
  2 (1999)

Singapore
  1 (broadcasting on six channels); additional reception of
  numerous UHF and VHF signals originating in Malaysia and Indonesia
  (2006)

Slovakia
  80 (national broadcasting 6, regional 7, local 67) (2004)

Slovenia
  31 (2006)

Somalia
  4 (2 in Mogadishu and 2 in Hargeisa) (2001)

South Africa
  556 (plus 144 network repeaters) (1997)

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  0 (2003)

Spain
  224 (plus 2,105 repeaters; includes 11 television broadcast
  stations and 88 repeaters in the Canary Islands) (1995)

Sri Lanka
  14 (2006)

Sudan
  3 (1997)

Suriname
  3 (plus 7 repeaters) (2000)

Svalbard
  NA

Swaziland
  12 (includes 7 relay stations) (2004)

Sweden
  169 (plus 1,299 repeaters) (1995)

Switzerland
  115 (plus 1,919 repeaters) (1995)

Syria
  44 (plus 17 repeaters) (1995)

Taiwan
  76 (46 digital and 30 analog) (2007)

Tajikistan
  6 (2006)

Tanzania
  3 (1999)

Thailand
  111 (2006)

Timor-Leste
  1 (Timor-Leste has one national public broadcaster)

Togo
  3 (plus 2 repeaters) (1997)

Tonga
  3 (2004)

Trinidad and Tobago
  6 (2005)

Tunisia
  26 (plus 76 repeaters) (1995)

Turkey
  635 (plus 2,934 repeaters) (1995)

Turkmenistan
  4 (government-owned and programmed) (2004)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  0 (broadcasts received from The Bahamas; 2
  cable television networks) (2003)

Tuvalu
  0 (2004)

Uganda
  8 (plus 1 repeater) (2001)

Ukraine
  647 (2006)

United Arab Emirates
  15 (2004)

United Kingdom
  228 (plus 3,523 repeaters) (1995)

United States
  2,218 (2006)

Uruguay
  62 (2005)

Uzbekistan
  28 (includes 1 cable rebroadcaster in Tashkent and
  approximately 20 stations in regional capitals) (2006)

Vanuatu
  1 (2004)

Venezuela
  66 (plus 45 repeaters) (1997)

Vietnam
  67 (includes 61 relay, provincial, and city TV stations)
  (2006)

Virgin Islands
  5 (2006)

Wake Island
  0 (2005)

Wallis and Futuna
  2 (2000)

West Bank
  30 (2008)

Western Sahara
  NA

World
  NA

Yemen
  3 (including one Egypt-based station that broadcasts in
  Yemen); plus several repeaters (2007)

Zambia
  9 (2001)

Zimbabwe
  16 (1997)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2018  Sex ratio (male(s)/female)


Afghanistan
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.94 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.05 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Albania
  at birth: 1.1 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.1 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.87 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.04 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Algeria
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.86 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

American Samoa
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.88 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.03 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Andorra
  at birth: 1.07 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.07 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.1 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.97 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.08 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Angola
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.79 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.02 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Anguilla
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.92 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.91 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.88 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.77 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.91 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Argentina
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.7 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Armenia
  at birth: 1.15 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.14 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.88 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.65 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.89 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Aruba
  at birth: 1.02 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.92 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.66 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.9 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Australia
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.83 male(s)/female
  total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Austria
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.7 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Azerbaijan
  at birth: 1.14 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.12 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.96 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.59 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Bahamas, The
  at birth: 1.02 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.97 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.69 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Bahrain
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.36 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 1.1 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.25 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Bangladesh
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 1.15 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.05 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Barbados
  at birth: 1.01 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.97 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.63 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.94 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Belarus
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.94 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.48 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.87 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Belgium
  at birth: 1.04 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.7 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Belize
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.92 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.03 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Benin
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.7 male(s)/female
  total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Bermuda
  at birth: 1.02 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.77 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Bhutan
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.14 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 1.13 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Bolivia
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.96 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.8 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  at birth: 1.07 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.07 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.7 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Botswana
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.68 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Brazil
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.73 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 1.07 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.05 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Brunei
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.92 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.02 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Bulgaria
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.97 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.69 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.92 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Burkina Faso
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.66 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Burma
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.75 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Burundi
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.66 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Cambodia
  at birth: 1.04 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.94 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.6 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Cameroon
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.85 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Canada
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.77 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Cape Verde
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.96 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.58 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Cayman Islands
  at birth: 1.02 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.95 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.89 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Central African Republic
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.64 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Chad
  at birth: 1.04 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.84 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.73 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.92 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Chile
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.72 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

China
  at birth: 1.11 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.13 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.91 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.06 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Christmas Island
  NA

Colombia
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.95 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.76 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Comoros
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.85 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.68 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.7 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Cook Islands
  total population: 1.07 male(s)/female (2001 census)

Costa Rica
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.86 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.02 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 1.01 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.03 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Croatia
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.63 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.93 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Cuba
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.84 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Cyprus
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.78 male(s)/female
  total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Czech Republic
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.65 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Denmark
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.77 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Djibouti
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.07 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 1.01 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.04 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Dominica
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.76 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.02 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Dominican Republic
  at birth: 1.04 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.86 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.03 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Ecuador
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.88 male(s)/female
  total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Egypt
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.74 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.02 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

El Salvador
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.91 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.78 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.96 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.8 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Eritrea
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.96 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.85 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Estonia
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.91 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.5 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.84 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Ethiopia
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.96 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.76 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

European Union
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.68 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.92 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Faroe Islands
  at birth: 1.07 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.15 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.89 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.09 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Fiji
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.82 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Finland
  at birth: 1.04 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.68 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

France
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.71 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

French Polynesia
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.08 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 1.02 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.06 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Gabon
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.71 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Gambia, The
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 1.02 male(s)/female
  total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Gaza Strip
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.69 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.04 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Georgia
  at birth: 1.13 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.14 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.93 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.67 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.91 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Germany
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.72 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Ghana
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.86 male(s)/female
  total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Gibraltar
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.84 male(s)/female
  total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Greece
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.78 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Greenland
  at birth: 1.02 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.17 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.99 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.12 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Grenada
  at birth: 1 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.12 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.96 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.08 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Guam
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.07 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.88 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.04 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Guatemala
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.94 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.86 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Guernsey
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.74 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.94 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Guinea
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.78 male(s)/female
  total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.93 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.69 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Guyana
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.73 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Haiti
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.96 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.78 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Honduras
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.82 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Hong Kong
  at birth: 1.08 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.1 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.94 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.87 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Hungary
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.97 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.57 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.91 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Iceland
  at birth: 1.04 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.83 male(s)/female
  total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

India
  at birth: 1.12 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.1 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.9 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.06 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Indonesia
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.8 male(s)/female
  total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Iran
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.93 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.03 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Iraq
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.89 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.02 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Ireland
  at birth: 1.07 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.07 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.8 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Isle of Man
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.68 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Israel
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.77 male(s)/female
  total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Italy
  at birth: 1.07 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.72 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Jamaica
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.97 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.81 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Japan
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.74 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Jersey
  at birth: 1.08 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.08 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.8 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Jordan
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.15 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.94 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Kazakhstan
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.96 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.54 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.93 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Kenya
  at birth: 1.02 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.84 male(s)/female
  total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Kiribati
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.74 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Korea, North
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.57 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Korea, South
  at birth: 1.08 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.11 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.66 male(s)/female
  total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Kuwait
  at birth: 1.04 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.78 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 1.67 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.53 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.96 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.64 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Laos
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.78 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Latvia
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.95 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.49 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.86 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Lebanon
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.92 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.82 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.94 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Lesotho
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.96 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.67 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Liberia
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.95 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Libya
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.96 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.05 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Liechtenstein
  at birth: 1 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.75 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.94 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Lithuania
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.96 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.53 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.89 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Luxembourg
  at birth: 1.07 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.69 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Macau
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.13 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.88 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.86 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.92 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Macedonia
  at birth: 1.08 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.08 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.77 male(s)/female
  total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Madagascar
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.81 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Malawi
  at birth: 1.01 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.75 male(s)/female
  total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Malaysia
  at birth: 1.07 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.78 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Maldives
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.59 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 1.01 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.41 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Mali
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.66 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Malta
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.76 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Marshall Islands
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.94 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.04 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Mauritania
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.66 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Mauritius
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.67 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Mayotte
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.16 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 1.03 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.09 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Mexico
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.94 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.82 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  NA

Moldova
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.94 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.59 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.91 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Monaco
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.69 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.91 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Mongolia
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.77 male(s)/female
  total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Montserrat
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.09 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.92 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 1.88 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Morocco
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.75 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Mozambique
  at birth: 1.02 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.95 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.71 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Namibia
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.82 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Nauru
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.97 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 1.08 male(s)/female
  total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Nepal
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.07 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.94 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.06 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Netherlands
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.75 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.93 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.69 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.93 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

New Caledonia
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.86 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

New Zealand
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.83 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Nicaragua
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.78 male(s)/female
  total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Niger
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.98 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.05 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Nigeria
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.95 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.04 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Niue
  NA

Norfolk Island
  NA

Northern Mariana Islands
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.1 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.68 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 1.06 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.75 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Norway
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.74 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Oman
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.4 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 1.29 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.23 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Pakistan
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.89 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.04 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Palau
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.16 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.9 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.12 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Panama
  at birth: 1.04 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.87 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.02 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.86 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.04 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Paraguay
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.86 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Peru
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.89 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Philippines
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.76 male(s)/female
  total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Pitcairn Islands
  NA

Poland
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.62 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.94 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Portugal
  at birth: 1.07 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.09 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.7 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Puerto Rico
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.92 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.76 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.92 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Qatar
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 2.47 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 1.4 male(s)/female
  total population: 2.01 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Romania
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.69 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Russia
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.93 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.45 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.86 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Rwanda
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.67 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Saint Helena
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.86 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.03 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.71 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Saint Lucia
  at birth: 1.07 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.94 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.82 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  at birth: 1.07 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.85 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.07 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.79 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.04 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Samoa
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.1 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.81 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.06 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

San Marino
  at birth: 1.09 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.07 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.92 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.76 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.91 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.94 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.83 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.3 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 1.08 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.19 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Senegal
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.88 male(s)/female
  total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Seychelles
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.96 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.46 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.93 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Sierra Leone
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 0.96 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.92 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.86 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.94 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Singapore
  at birth: 1.08 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.07 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.95 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.8 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Slovakia
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.6 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.94 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Slovenia
  at birth: 1.07 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.64 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Solomon Islands
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.9 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.03 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Somalia
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.72 male(s)/female
  total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

South Africa
  at birth: 1.02 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.69 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Spain
  at birth: 1.07 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.72 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Sri Lanka
  at birth: 1.04 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.96 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.88 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Sudan
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 1.1 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.03 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Suriname
  at birth: 1.07 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.76 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Svalbard
  NA

Swaziland
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.92 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.61 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Sweden
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.78 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Switzerland
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.08 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.7 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Syria
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.89 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.05 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Taiwan
  at birth: 1.09 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.08 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.95 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.02 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Tajikistan
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.74 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Tanzania
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.97 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.78 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Thailand
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.83 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Timor-Leste
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.92 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.03 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Togo
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.95 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.66 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Tokelau
  NA

Tonga
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.72 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  at birth: 1.04 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.11 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.81 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.07 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Tunisia
  at birth: 1.07 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.07 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.88 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Turkey
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.84 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.02 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Turkmenistan
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.77 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.1 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.91 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.07 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Tuvalu
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.96 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.59 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.96 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Uganda
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.72 male(s)/female
  total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Ukraine
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.92 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.51 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.86 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 2.74 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 1.84 male(s)/female
  total population: 2.19 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

United Kingdom
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.75 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

United States
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.72 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.97 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Uruguay
  at birth: 1.04 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.67 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Uzbekistan
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.99 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.75 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Vanuatu
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 1.07 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.04 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Venezuela
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.97 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.8 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Vietnam
  at birth: 1.07 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.08 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.63 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Virgin Islands
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.88 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.82 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.9 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

West Bank
  at birth: 1.06 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.05 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.71 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.04 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Western Sahara
  NA

World
  at birth: 1.07 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.06 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.78 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.01 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Yemen
  at birth: 1.05 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.04 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1.03 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.94 male(s)/female
  total population: 1.03 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Zambia
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 1 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.72 male(s)/female
  total population: 1 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

Zimbabwe
  at birth: 1.03 male(s)/female
  under 15 years: 1.02 male(s)/female
  15-64 years: 0.82 male(s)/female
  65 years and over: 0.8 male(s)/female
  total population: 0.9 male(s)/female (2008 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2019  Heliports


Afghanistan
  9 (2007)

Albania
  1 (2007)

Algeria
  2 (2007)

Antarctica
  53
  note: all year-round and seasonal stations operated by National
  Antarctic Programs stations have some kind of helicopter landing
  facilities, prepared (helipads) or unprepared (2007)

Argentina
  1 (2007)

Australia
  1 (2007)

Austria
  1 (2007)

Azerbaijan
  1 (2007)

Bahamas, The
  1 (2007)

Bahrain
  1 (2007)

Belarus
  1 (2007)

Belgium
  1 (2007)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  5 (2007)

Brazil
  16 (2007)

Brunei
  3 (2007)

Bulgaria
  4 (2007)

Burma
  4 (2007)

Burundi
  1 (2007)

Cambodia
  1 (2007)

Canada
  11 (2007)

China
  35 (2007)

Colombia
  2 (2007)

Croatia
  2 (2007)

Cyprus
  10 (2007)

Czech Republic
  1 (2007)

Ecuador
  1 (2007)

Egypt
  3 (2007)

El Salvador
  1 (2007)

Eritrea
  1 (2007)

Estonia
  1 (2007)

European Union
  100 (2007)

France
  3 (2007)

French Polynesia
  1 (2007)

Gaza Strip
  1 (2007)

Georgia
  3 (2007)

Germany
  28 (2007)

Greece
  9 (2007)

Hong Kong
  5 (2007)

Hungary
  5 (2007)

India
  30 (2007)

Indonesia
  17 (2007)

Iran
  14 (2007)

Iraq
  17 (2007)

Israel
  3 (2007)

Italy
  5 (2007)

Japan
  14 (2007)

Jordan
  1 (2007)

Kazakhstan
  5 (2007)

Korea, North
  23 (2007)

Korea, South
  536 (2007)

Kosovo
  2 (2008)

Kuwait
  4 (2007)

Libya
  2 (2007)

Luxembourg
  1 (2007)

Macau
  1 (2007)

Malaysia
  2 (2007)

Mexico
  1 (2007)

Monaco
  1 (2007)

Mongolia
  1 (2007)

Montenegro
  1 (2007)

Morocco
  1 (2007)

Netherlands
  1 (2007)

New Caledonia
  6 (2007)

Nigeria
  2 (2007)

Northern Mariana Islands
  1 (2007)

Norway
  1 (2007)

Oman
  2 (2007)

Pakistan
  18 (2007)

Panama
  2 (2007)

Papua New Guinea
  2 (2007)

Peru
  1 (2007)

Philippines
  2 (2007)

Poland
  7 (2007)

Qatar
  1 (2007)

Romania
  2 (2007)

Russia
  47 (2007)

Saudi Arabia
  8 (2007)

Serbia
  2 (2007)

Sierra Leone
  2 (2007)

Slovakia
  1 (2007)

Solomon Islands
  3 (2007)

South Africa
  1 (2007)

Spain
  8 (2007)

Spratly Islands
  3 (2007)

Sudan
  4 (2007)

Svalbard
  1 (2007)

Sweden
  2 (2007)

Switzerland
  2 (2007)

Syria
  7 (2007)

Taiwan
  4 (2007)

Thailand
  3 (2007)

Timor-Leste
  9 (2007)

Turkey
  18 (2007)

Turkmenistan
  1 (2007)

Ukraine
  10 (2007)

United Arab Emirates
  5 (2007)

United Kingdom
  11 (2007)

United States
  146 (2007)

Venezuela
  2 (2007)

Vietnam
  1 (2007)

World
  1,359 (2007)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2020  Elevation extremes (m)


Afghanistan
  lowest point: Amu Darya 258 m
  highest point: Nowshak 7,485 m

Albania
  lowest point: Adriatic Sea 0 m
  highest point: Maja e Korabit (Golem Korab) 2,764 m

Algeria
  lowest point: Chott Melrhir -40 m
  highest point: Tahat 3,003 m

American Samoa
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Lata Mountain 964 m

Andorra
  lowest point: Riu Runer 840 m
  highest point: Coma Pedrosa 2,946 m

Angola
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Morro de Moco 2,620 m

Anguilla
  lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
  highest point: Crocus Hill 65 m

Antarctica
  lowest point: Bentley Subglacial Trench -2,555 m
  highest point: Vinson Massif 4,897 m
  note: the lowest known land point in Antarctica is hidden in the
  Bentley Subglacial Trench; at its surface is the deepest ice yet
  discovered and the world's lowest elevation not under seawater

Antigua and Barbuda
  lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
  highest point: Boggy Peak 402 m

Arctic Ocean
  lowest point: Fram Basin -4,665 m
  highest point: sea level 0 m

Argentina
  lowest point: Laguna del Carbon -105 m (located between
  Puerto San Julian and Comandante Luis Piedra Buena in the province
  of Santa Cruz)
  highest point: Cerro Aconcagua 6,960 m (located in the northwestern
  corner of the province of Mendoza)

Armenia
  lowest point: Debed River 400 m
  highest point: Aragats Lerrnagagat' 4,090 m

Aruba
  lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
  highest point: Mount Jamanota 188 m

Ashmore and Cartier Islands
  lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
  highest point: unnamed location 3 m

Atlantic Ocean
  lowest point: Milwaukee Deep in the Puerto Rico
  Trench -8,605 m
  highest point: sea level 0 m

Australia
  lowest point: Lake Eyre -15 m
  highest point: Mount Kosciuszko 2,229 m

Austria
  lowest point: Neusiedler See 115 m
  highest point: Grossglockner 3,798 m

Azerbaijan
  lowest point: Caspian Sea -28 m
  highest point: Bazarduzu Dagi 4,485 m

Bahamas, The
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Mount Alvernia, on Cat Island 63 m

Bahrain
  lowest point: Persian Gulf 0 m
  highest point: Jabal ad Dukhan 122 m

Bangladesh
  lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Keokradong 1,230 m

Barbados
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Mount Hillaby 336 m

Belarus
  lowest point: Nyoman River 90 m
  highest point: Dzyarzhynskaya Hara 346 m

Belgium
  lowest point: North Sea 0 m
  highest point: Signal de Botrange 694 m

Belize
  lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
  highest point: Doyle's Delight 1,160 m

Benin
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Mont Sokbaro 658 m

Bermuda
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Town Hill 76 m

Bhutan
  lowest point: Drangme Chhu 97 m
  highest point: Kula Kangri 7,553 m

Bolivia
  lowest point: Rio Paraguay 90 m
  highest point: Nevado Sajama 6,542 m

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  lowest point: Adriatic Sea 0 m
  highest point: Maglic 2,386 m

Botswana
  lowest point: junction of the Limpopo and Shashe Rivers 513
  m
  highest point: Tsodilo Hills 1,489 m

Bouvet Island
  lowest point: South Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Olav Peak 935 m

Brazil
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Pico da Neblina 3,014 m

British Indian Ocean Territory
  lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
  highest point: unnamed location on Diego Garcia 15 m

British Virgin Islands
  lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
  highest point: Mount Sage 521 m

Brunei
  lowest point: South China Sea 0 m
  highest point: Bukit Pagon 1,850 m

Bulgaria
  lowest point: Black Sea 0 m
  highest point: Musala 2,925 m

Burkina Faso
  lowest point: Mouhoun (Black Volta) River 200 m
  highest point: Tena Kourou 749 m

Burma
  lowest point: Andaman Sea 0 m
  highest point: Hkakabo Razi 5,881 m

Burundi
  lowest point: Lake Tanganyika 772 m
  highest point: Heha 2,670 m

Cambodia
  lowest point: Gulf of Thailand 0 m
  highest point: Phnum Aoral 1,810 m

Cameroon
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Fako 4,095 m (on Mt. Cameroon)

Canada
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Mount Logan 5,959 m

Cape Verde
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Mt. Fogo 2,829 m (a volcano on Fogo Island)

Cayman Islands
  lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
  highest point: The Bluff (Cayman Brac) 43 m

Central African Republic
  lowest point: Oubangui River 335 m
  highest point: Mont Ngaoui 1,420 m

Chad
  lowest point: Djourab Depression 160 m
  highest point: Emi Koussi 3,415 m

Chile
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Nevado Ojos del Salado 6,880 m

China
  lowest point: Turpan Pendi -154 m
  highest point: Mount Everest 8,850 m

Christmas Island
  lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Murray Hill 361 m

Clipperton Island
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Rocher Clipperton 29 m

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
  highest point: unnamed location 5 m

Colombia
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Pico Cristobal Colon 5,775 m
  note: nearby Pico Simon Bolivar also has the same elevation

Comoros
  lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Le Karthala 2,360 m

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Pic Marguerite on Mont Ngaliema (Mount Stanley) 5,110
  m

Congo, Republic of the
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Mount Berongou 903 m

Cook Islands
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Te Manga 652 m

Coral Sea Islands
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: unnamed location on Cato Island 6 m

Costa Rica
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Cerro Chirripo 3,810 m

Cote d'Ivoire
  lowest point: Gulf of Guinea 0 m
  highest point: Mont Nimba 1,752 m

Croatia
  lowest point: Adriatic Sea 0 m
  highest point: Dinara 1,830 m

Cuba
  lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
  highest point: Pico Turquino 2,005 m

Cyprus
  lowest point: Mediterranean Sea 0 m
  highest point: Mount Olympus 1,951 m

Czech Republic
  lowest point: Elbe River 115 m
  highest point: Snezka 1,602 m

Denmark
  lowest point: Lammefjord -7 m
  highest point: Yding Skovhoej 173 m

Djibouti
  lowest point: Lac Assal -155 m
  highest point: Moussa Ali 2,028 m

Dominica
  lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
  highest point: Morne Diablatins 1,447 m

Dominican Republic
  lowest point: Lago Enriquillo -46 m
  highest point: Pico Duarte 3,175 m

Ecuador
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Chimborazo 6,267 m

Egypt
  lowest point: Qattara Depression -133 m
  highest point: Mount Catherine 2,629 m

El Salvador
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Cerro El Pital 2,730 m

Equatorial Guinea
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Pico Basile 3,008 m

Eritrea
  lowest point: near Kulul within the Denakil depression -75 m
  highest point: Soira 3,018 m

Estonia
  lowest point: Baltic Sea 0 m
  highest point: Suur Munamagi 318 m

Ethiopia
  lowest point: Denakil Depression -125 m
  highest point: Ras Dejen 4,533 m

European Union
  lowest point: Lammefjord, Denmark -7 m;
  Zuidplaspolder, Netherlands -7 m
  highest point: Mont Blanc 4,807 m; note - situated on the border
  between France and Italy

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Mount Usborne 705 m

Faroe Islands
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Slaettaratindur 882 m

Fiji
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Tomanivi 1,324 m

Finland
  lowest point: Baltic Sea 0 m
  highest point: Haltiatunturi 1,328 m

France
  lowest point: Rhone River delta -2 m
  highest point: Mont Blanc 4,807 m

French Polynesia
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Mont Orohena 2,241 m

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Mont de la Dives on Ile Amsterdam (Ile Amsterdam et
  Ile Saint-Paul) 867 m; unnamed location on Ile Saint-Paul (Ile
  Amsterdam et Ile Saint-Paul) 272 m; Pic Marion-Dufresne in Iles
  Crozet 1,090 m; Mont Ross in Iles Kerguelen 1,850 m; unnamed
  location on Bassas de India (Iles Eparses) 2.4 m; unnamed location
  on Europa Island (Iles Eparses) 24 m; unnamed location on Glorioso
  Islands (Iles Eparses) 12 m; unnamed location on Juan de Nova Island
  (Iles Eparses) 10 m; unnamed location on Tromelin Island (Iles
  Eparses) 7 m

Gabon
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Mont Iboundji 1,575 m

Gambia, The
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: unnamed location 53 m

Gaza Strip
  lowest point: Mediterranean Sea 0 m
  highest point: Abu 'Awdah (Joz Abu 'Auda) 105 m

Georgia
  lowest point: Black Sea 0 m
  highest point: Mt'a Shkhara 5,201 m

Germany
  lowest point: Neuendorf bei Wilster -3.54 m
  highest point: Zugspitze 2,963 m

Ghana
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Mount Afadjato 880 m

Gibraltar
  lowest point: Mediterranean Sea 0 m
  highest point: Rock of Gibraltar 426 m

Greece
  lowest point: Mediterranean Sea 0 m
  highest point: Mount Olympus 2,917 m

Greenland
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Gunnbjorn 3,700 m

Grenada
  lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
  highest point: Mount Saint Catherine 840 m

Guam
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Mount Lamlam 406 m

Guatemala
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Volcan Tajumulco 4,211 m

Guernsey
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: unnamed location on Sark 114 m

Guinea
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Mont Nimba 1,752 m

Guinea-Bissau
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: unnamed location in the northeast corner of the
  country 300 m

Guyana
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Mount Roraima 2,835 m

Haiti
  lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
  highest point: Chaine de la Selle 2,680 m

Heard Island and McDonald Islands
  lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Mawson Peak, on Big Ben 2,745 m

Holy See (Vatican City)
  lowest point: unnamed location 19 m
  highest point: unnamed location 75 m

Honduras
  lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
  highest point: Cerro Las Minas 2,870 m

Hong Kong
  lowest point: South China Sea 0 m
  highest point: Tai Mo Shan 958 m

Hungary
  lowest point: Tisza River 78 m
  highest point: Kekes 1,014 m

Iceland
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Hvannadalshnukur 2,110 m (at Vatnajokull glacier)

India
  lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Kanchenjunga 8,598 m

Indian Ocean
  lowest point: Java Trench -7,258 m
  highest point: sea level 0 m

Indonesia
  lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Puncak Jaya 5,030 m

Iran
  lowest point: Caspian Sea -28 m
  highest point: Kuh-e Damavand 5,671 m

Iraq
  lowest point: Persian Gulf 0 m
  highest point: unnamed peak; 3,611 m; note - this peak is neither
  Gundah Zhur 3,607 m nor Kuh-e Hajji-Ebrahim 3,595 m

Ireland
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Carrauntoohil 1,041 m

Isle of Man
  lowest point: Irish Sea 0 m
  highest point: Snaefell 621 m

Israel
  lowest point: Dead Sea -408 m
  highest point: Har Meron 1,208 m

Italy
  lowest point: Mediterranean Sea 0 m
  highest point: Mont Blanc (Monte Bianco) de Courmayeur 4,748 m (a
  secondary peak of Mont Blanc)

Jamaica
  lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
  highest point: Blue Mountain Peak 2,256 m

Jan Mayen
  lowest point: Norwegian Sea 0 m
  highest point: Haakon VII Toppen/Beerenberg 2,277 m

Japan
  lowest point: Hachiro-gata -4 m
  highest point: Mount Fuji 3,776 m

Jersey
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: unnamed location 143 m

Jordan
  lowest point: Dead Sea -408 m
  highest point: Jabal Ram 1,734 m

Kazakhstan
  lowest point: Vpadina Kaundy -132 m
  highest point: Khan Tangiri Shyngy (Pik Khan-Tengri) 6,995 m

Kenya
  lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Mount Kenya 5,199 m

Kiribati
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: unnamed location on Banaba 81 m

Korea, North
  lowest point: Sea of Japan 0 m
  highest point: Paektu-san 2,744 m

Korea, South
  lowest point: Sea of Japan 0 m
  highest point: Halla-san 1,950 m

Kosovo
  lowest point: Drini i Bardhe/Beli Drim 297 m (located on the
  border with Albania)
  highest point: Gjeravica/Deravica 2,565 m

Kuwait
  lowest point: Persian Gulf 0 m
  highest point: unnamed location 306 m

Kyrgyzstan
  lowest point: Kara-Daryya (Karadar'ya) 132 m
  highest point: Jengish Chokusu (Pik Pobedy) 7,439 m

Laos
  lowest point: Mekong River 70 m
  highest point: Phou Bia 2,817 m

Latvia
  lowest point: Baltic Sea 0 m
  highest point: Galzina Kalns 312 m

Lebanon
  lowest point: Mediterranean Sea 0 m
  highest point: Qurnat as Sawda' 3,088 m

Lesotho
  lowest point: junction of the Orange and Makhaleng Rivers
  1,400 m
  highest point: Thabana Ntlenyana 3,482 m

Liberia
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Mount Wuteve 1,380 m

Libya
  lowest point: Sabkhat Ghuzayyil -47 m
  highest point: Bikku Bitti 2,267 m

Liechtenstein
  lowest point: Ruggeller Riet 430 m
  highest point: Vorder-Grauspitz 2,599 m

Lithuania
  lowest point: Baltic Sea 0 m
  highest point: Juozapines Kalnas 293.6 m

Luxembourg
  lowest point: Moselle River 133 m
  highest point: Buurgplaatz 559 m

Macau
  lowest point: South China Sea 0 m
  highest point: Coloane Alto 172.4 m

Macedonia
  lowest point: Vardar River 50 m
  highest point: Golem Korab (Maja e Korabit) 2,764 m

Madagascar
  lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Maromokotro 2,876 m

Malawi
  lowest point: junction of the Shire River and international
  boundary with Mozambique 37 m
  highest point: Sapitwa (Mount Mlanje) 3,002 m

Malaysia
  lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Gunung Kinabalu 4,100 m

Maldives
  lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
  highest point: unnamed location on Wilingili island in the Addu
  Atoll 2.4 m

Mali
  lowest point: Senegal River 23 m
  highest point: Hombori Tondo 1,155 m

Malta
  lowest point: Mediterranean Sea 0 m
  highest point: Ta'Dmejrek 253 m (near Dingli)

Marshall Islands
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: unnamed location on Likiep 10 m

Mauritania
  lowest point: Sebkhet Te-n-Dghamcha -5 m
  highest point: Kediet Ijill 915 m

Mauritius
  lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Mont Piton 828 m

Mayotte
  lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Benara 660 m

Mexico
  lowest point: Laguna Salada -10 m
  highest point: Volcan Pico de Orizaba 5,700 m

Micronesia, Federated States of
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Dolohmwar (Totolom) 791 m

Moldova
  lowest point: Dniester River 2 m
  highest point: Dealul Balanesti 430 m

Monaco
  lowest point: Mediterranean Sea 0 m
  highest point: Mont Agel 140 m

Mongolia
  lowest point: Hoh Nuur 518 m
  highest point: Nayramadlin Orgil (Huyten Orgil) 4,374 m

Montenegro
  lowest point: Adriatic Sea 0 m
  highest point: Bobotov Kuk 2,522 m

Montserrat
  lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
  highest point: lava dome in English's Crater (in the Soufriere Hills
  volcanic complex) estimated at over 930 m (2006)

Morocco
  lowest point: Sebkha Tah -55 m
  highest point: Jebel Toubkal 4,165 m

Mozambique
  lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Monte Binga 2,436 m

Namibia
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Konigstein 2,606 m

Nauru
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: unnamed location along plateau rim 61 m

Navassa Island
  lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
  highest point: unnamed location on southwest side 77 m

Nepal
  lowest point: Kanchan Kalan 70 m
  highest point: Mount Everest 8,850 m

Netherlands
  lowest point: Zuidplaspolder -7 m
  highest point: Vaalserberg 322 m

Netherlands Antilles
  lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
  highest point: Mount Scenery 862 m

New Caledonia
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Mont Panie 1,628 m

New Zealand
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Aoraki-Mount Cook 3,754 m

Nicaragua
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Mogoton 2,438 m

Niger
  lowest point: Niger River 200 m
  highest point: Mont Bagzane 2,022 m

Nigeria
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Chappal Waddi 2,419 m

Niue
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: unnamed location near Mutalau settlement 68 m

Norfolk Island
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Mount Bates 319 m

Northern Mariana Islands
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: unnamed location on Agrihan 965 m

Norway
  lowest point: Norwegian Sea 0 m
  highest point: Galdhopiggen 2,469 m

Oman
  lowest point: Arabian Sea 0 m
  highest point: Jabal Shams 2,980 m

Pacific Ocean
  lowest point: Challenger Deep in the Mariana Trench
  -10,924 m
  highest point: sea level 0 m

Pakistan
  lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
  highest point: K2 (Mt. Godwin-Austen) 8,611 m

Palau
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Mount Ngerchelchuus 242 m

Panama
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Volcan Baru 3,475 m

Papua New Guinea
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Mount Wilhelm 4,509 m

Paracel Islands
  lowest point: South China Sea 0 m
  highest point: unnamed location on Rocky Island 14 m

Paraguay
  lowest point: junction of Rio Paraguay and Rio Parana 46 m
  highest point: Cerro Pero (Cerro Tres Kandu) 842 m

Peru
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Nevado Huascaran 6,768 m

Philippines
  lowest point: Philippine Sea 0 m
  highest point: Mount Apo 2,954 m

Pitcairn Islands
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Pawala Valley Ridge 347 m

Poland
  lowest point: near Raczki Elblaskie -2 m
  highest point: Rysy 2,499 m

Portugal
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Ponta do Pico (Pico or Pico Alto) on Ilha do Pico in
  the Azores 2,351 m

Puerto Rico
  lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
  highest point: Cerro de Punta 1,339 m

Qatar
  lowest point: Persian Gulf 0 m
  highest point: Qurayn Abu al Bawl 103 m

Romania
  lowest point: Black Sea 0 m
  highest point: Moldoveanu 2,544 m

Russia
  lowest point: Caspian Sea -28 m
  highest point: Gora El'brus 5,633 m

Rwanda
  lowest point: Rusizi River 950 m
  highest point: Volcan Karisimbi 4,519 m

Saint Barthelemy
  lowest point: Caribbean Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Morne du Vitet 286 m

Saint Helena
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Queen Mary's Peak on Tristan da Cunha 2,062 m; Green
  Mountain on Ascension Island 859 m; Mount Actaeon on Saint Helena
  Island 818 m

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
  highest point: Mount Liamuiga 1,156 m

Saint Lucia
  lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
  highest point: Mount Gimie 950 m

Saint Martin
  lowest point: Caribbean Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Pic du Paradis 424 m

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Morne de la Grande Montagne 240 m

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
  highest point: La Soufriere 1,234 m

Samoa
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Mauga Silisili (Savaii) 1,857 m

San Marino
  lowest point: Torrente Ausa 55 m
  highest point: Monte Titano 755 m

Sao Tome and Principe
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Pico de Sao Tome 2,024 m

Saudi Arabia
  lowest point: Persian Gulf 0 m
  highest point: Jabal Sawda' 3,133 m

Senegal
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: unnamed feature near Nepen Diakha 581 m

Serbia
  lowest point: NA
  highest point: Midzor 2,169 m

Seychelles
  lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Morne Seychellois 905 m

Sierra Leone
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Loma Mansa (Bintimani) 1,948 m

Singapore
  lowest point: Singapore Strait 0 m
  highest point: Bukit Timah 166 m

Slovakia
  lowest point: Bodrok River 94 m
  highest point: Gerlachovsky Stit 2,655 m

Slovenia
  lowest point: Adriatic Sea 0 m
  highest point: Triglav 2,864 m

Solomon Islands
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Mount Makarakomburu 2,447 m

Somalia
  lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Shimbiris 2,416 m

South Africa
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Njesuthi 3,408 m

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  lowest point: Atlantic
  Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Mount Paget (South Georgia) 2,934 m

Southern Ocean
  lowest point: -7,235 m at the southern end of the
  South Sandwich Trench
  highest point: sea level 0 m

Spain
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Pico de Teide (Tenerife) on Canary Islands 3,718 m

Spratly Islands
  lowest point: South China Sea 0 m
  highest point: unnamed location on Southwest Cay 4 m

Sri Lanka
  lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Pidurutalagala 2,524 m

Sudan
  lowest point: Red Sea 0 m
  highest point: Kinyeti 3,187 m

Suriname
  lowest point: unnamed location in the coastal plain -2 m
  highest point: Juliana Top 1,230 m

Svalbard
  lowest point: Arctic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Newtontoppen 1,717 m

Swaziland
  lowest point: Great Usutu River 21 m
  highest point: Emlembe 1,862 m

Sweden
  lowest point: reclaimed bay of Lake Hammarsjon, near
  Kristianstad -2.41 m
  highest point: Kebnekaise 2,111 m

Switzerland
  lowest point: Lake Maggiore 195 m
  highest point: Dufourspitze 4,634 m

Syria
  lowest point: unnamed location near Lake Tiberias -200 m
  highest point: Mount Hermon 2,814 m

Taiwan
  lowest point: South China Sea 0 m
  highest point: Yu Shan 3,952 m

Tajikistan
  lowest point: Syr Darya (Sirdaryo) 300 m
  highest point: Qullai Ismoili Somoni 7,495 m

Tanzania
  lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Kilimanjaro 5,895 m

Thailand
  lowest point: Gulf of Thailand 0 m
  highest point: Doi Inthanon 2,576 m

Timor-Leste
  lowest point: Timor Sea, Savu Sea, and Banda Sea 0 m
  highest point: Foho Tatamailau 2,963 m

Togo
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Mont Agou 986 m

Tokelau
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: unnamed location 5 m

Tonga
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: unnamed location on Kao Island 1,033 m

Trinidad and Tobago
  lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
  highest point: El Cerro del Aripo 940 m

Tunisia
  lowest point: Shatt al Gharsah -17 m
  highest point: Jebel ech Chambi 1,544 m

Turkey
  lowest point: Mediterranean Sea 0 m
  highest point: Mount Ararat 5,166 m

Turkmenistan
  lowest point: Vpadina Akchanaya -81 m; note -
  Sarygamysh Koli is a lake in northern Turkmenistan with a water
  level that fluctuates above and below the elevation of Vpadina
  Akchanaya (the lake has dropped as low as -110 m)
  highest point: Gora Ayribaba 3,139 m

Turks and Caicos Islands
  lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
  highest point: Blue Hills 49 m

Tuvalu
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: unnamed location 5 m

Uganda
  lowest point: Lake Albert 621 m
  highest point: Margherita Peak on Mount Stanley 5,110 m

Ukraine
  lowest point: Black Sea 0 m
  highest point: Hora Hoverla 2,061 m

United Arab Emirates
  lowest point: Persian Gulf 0 m
  highest point: Jabal Yibir 1,527 m

United Kingdom
  lowest point: The Fens -4 m
  highest point: Ben Nevis 1,343 m

United States
  lowest point: Death Valley -86 m
  highest point: Mount McKinley 6,198 m

United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
  lowest point: Pacific
  Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Baker Island, unnamed location - 8 m; Howland Island,
  unnamed location - 3 m; Jarvis Island, unnamed location - 7 m;
  Johnston Atoll, Sand Island - 10 m; Kingman Reef, unnamed location -
  less than 2 m; Midway Islands, unnamed location - 13 m; Palmyra
  Atoll, unnamed location - 3 m

Uruguay
  lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Cerro Catedral 514 m

Uzbekistan
  lowest point: Sariqarnish Kuli -12 m
  highest point: Adelunga Toghi 4,301 m

Vanuatu
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Tabwemasana 1,877 m

Venezuela
  lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
  highest point: Pico Bolivar (La Columna) 5,007 m

Vietnam
  lowest point: South China Sea 0 m
  highest point: Fan Si Pan 3,144 m

Virgin Islands
  lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m
  highest point: Crown Mountain 475 m

Wake Island
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: unnamed location 6 m

Wallis and Futuna
  lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
  highest point: Mont Singavi 765 m

West Bank
  lowest point: Dead Sea -408 m
  highest point: Tall Asur 1,022 m

Western Sahara
  lowest point: Sebjet Tah -55 m
  highest point: unnamed elevation 805 m

World
  lowest point: Bentley Subglacial Trench -2,540 m
  note: in the oceanic realm, Challenger Deep in the Mariana Trench is
  the lowest point, lying -10,924 m below the surface of the Pacific
  Ocean
  highest point: Mount Everest 8,850 m

Yemen
  lowest point: Arabian Sea 0 m
  highest point: Jabal an Nabi Shu'ayb 3,760 m

Zambia
  lowest point: Zambezi river 329 m
  highest point: unnamed location in Mafinga Hills 2,301 m

Zimbabwe
  lowest point: junction of the Runde and Save rivers 162 m
  highest point: Inyangani 2,592 m

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2021  Natural hazards


Afghanistan
  damaging earthquakes occur in Hindu Kush mountains;
  flooding; droughts

Albania
  destructive earthquakes; tsunamis occur along southwestern
  coast; floods; drought

Algeria
  mountainous areas subject to severe earthquakes; mudslides
  and floods in rainy season

American Samoa
  typhoons common from December to March

Andorra
  avalanches

Angola
  locally heavy rainfall causes periodic flooding on the plateau

Anguilla
  frequent hurricanes and other tropical storms (July to
  October)

Antarctica
  katabatic (gravity-driven) winds blow coastward from the
  high interior; frequent blizzards form near the foot of the plateau;
  cyclonic storms form over the ocean and move clockwise along the
  coast; volcanism on Deception Island and isolated areas of West
  Antarctica; other seismic activity rare and weak; large icebergs may
  calve from ice shelf

Antigua and Barbuda
  hurricanes and tropical storms (July to
  October); periodic droughts

Arctic Ocean
  ice islands occasionally break away from northern
  Ellesmere Island; icebergs calved from glaciers in western Greenland
  and extreme northeastern Canada; permafrost in islands; virtually
  ice locked from October to June; ships subject to superstructure
  icing from October to May

Argentina
  San Miguel de Tucuman and Mendoza areas in the Andes
  subject to earthquakes; pamperos are violent windstorms that can
  strike the pampas and northeast; heavy flooding

Armenia
  occasionally severe earthquakes; droughts

Aruba
  hurricanes; lies outside the Caribbean hurricane belt and is
  rarely threatened

Ashmore and Cartier Islands
  surrounded by shoals and reefs that can
  pose maritime hazards

Atlantic Ocean
  icebergs common in Davis Strait, Denmark Strait, and
  the northwestern Atlantic Ocean from February to August and have
  been spotted as far south as Bermuda and the Madeira Islands; ships
  subject to superstructure icing in extreme northern Atlantic from
  October to May; persistent fog can be a maritime hazard from May to
  September; hurricanes (May to December)

Australia
  cyclones along the coast; severe droughts; forest fires

Austria
  landslides; avalanches; earthquakes

Azerbaijan
  droughts

Bahamas, The
  hurricanes and other tropical storms cause extensive
  flood and wind damage

Bahrain
  periodic droughts; dust storms

Bangladesh
  droughts, cyclones; much of the country routinely
  inundated during the summer monsoon season

Barbados
  infrequent hurricanes; periodic landslides

Belarus
  NA

Belgium
  flooding is a threat along rivers and in areas of reclaimed
  coastal land, protected from the sea by concrete dikes

Belize
  frequent, devastating hurricanes (June to November) and
  coastal flooding (especially in south)

Benin
  hot, dry, dusty harmattan wind may affect north from December
  to March

Bermuda
  hurricanes (June to November)

Bhutan
  violent storms from the Himalayas are the source of the
  country's name, which translates as Land of the Thunder Dragon;
  frequent landslides during the rainy season

Bolivia
  flooding in the northeast (March-April)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  destructive earthquakes

Botswana
  periodic droughts; seasonal August winds blow from the
  west, carrying sand and dust across the country, which can obscure
  visibility

Bouvet Island
  NA

Brazil
  recurring droughts in northeast; floods and occasional frost
  in south

British Indian Ocean Territory
  NA

British Virgin Islands
  hurricanes and tropical storms (July to
  October)

Brunei
  typhoons, earthquakes, and severe flooding are rare

Bulgaria
  earthquakes, landslides

Burkina Faso
  recurring droughts

Burma
  destructive earthquakes and cyclones; flooding and landslides
  common during rainy season (June to September); periodic droughts

Burundi
  flooding, landslides, drought

Cambodia
  monsoonal rains (June to November); flooding; occasional
  droughts

Cameroon
  volcanic activity with periodic releases of poisonous gases
  from Lake Nyos and Lake Monoun volcanoes

Canada
  continuous permafrost in north is a serious obstacle to
  development; cyclonic storms form east of the Rocky Mountains, a
  result of the mixing of air masses from the Arctic, Pacific, and
  North American interior, and produce most of the country's rain and
  snow east of the mountains

Cape Verde
  prolonged droughts; seasonal harmattan wind produces
  obscuring dust; volcanically and seismically active

Cayman Islands
  hurricanes (July to November)

Central African Republic
  hot, dry, dusty harmattan winds affect
  northern areas; floods are common

Chad
  hot, dry, dusty harmattan winds occur in north; periodic
  droughts; locust plagues

Chile
  severe earthquakes; active volcanism; tsunamis

China
  frequent typhoons (about five per year along southern and
  eastern coasts); damaging floods; tsunamis; earthquakes; droughts;
  land subsidence

Christmas Island
  the narrow fringing reef surrounding the island can
  be a maritime hazard

Clipperton Island
  NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  cyclone season is October to April

Colombia
  highlands subject to volcanic eruptions; occasional
  earthquakes; periodic droughts

Comoros
  cyclones possible during rainy season (December to April);
  Le Kartala on Grand Comore is an active volcano

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  periodic droughts in south; Congo
  River floods (seasonal); in the east, in the Great Rift Valley,
  there are active volcanoes

Congo, Republic of the
  seasonal flooding

Cook Islands
  typhoons (November to March)

Coral Sea Islands
  occasional tropical cyclones

Costa Rica
  occasional earthquakes, hurricanes along Atlantic coast;
  frequent flooding of lowlands at onset of rainy season and
  landslides; active volcanoes

Cote d'Ivoire
  coast has heavy surf and no natural harbors; during
  the rainy season torrential flooding is possible

Croatia
  destructive earthquakes

Cuba
  the east coast is subject to hurricanes from August to November
  (in general, the country averages about one hurricane every other
  year); droughts are common

Cyprus
  moderate earthquake activity; droughts

Czech Republic
  flooding

Denmark
  flooding is a threat in some areas of the country (e.g.,
  parts of Jutland, along the southern coast of the island of Lolland)
  that are protected from the sea by a system of dikes

Djibouti
  earthquakes; droughts; occasional cyclonic disturbances
  from the Indian Ocean bring heavy rains and flash floods

Dominica
  flash floods are a constant threat; destructive hurricanes
  can be expected during the late summer months

Dominican Republic
  lies in the middle of the hurricane belt and
  subject to severe storms from June to October; occasional flooding;
  periodic droughts

Ecuador
  frequent earthquakes, landslides, volcanic activity; floods;
  periodic droughts

Egypt
  periodic droughts; frequent earthquakes, flash floods,
  landslides; hot, driving windstorm called khamsin occurs in spring;
  dust storms, sandstorms

El Salvador
  known as the Land of Volcanoes; frequent and sometimes
  destructive earthquakes and volcanic activity; extremely susceptible
  to hurricanes

Equatorial Guinea
  violent windstorms, flash floods

Eritrea
  frequent droughts; locust swarms

Estonia
  sometimes flooding occurs in the spring

Ethiopia
  geologically active Great Rift Valley susceptible to
  earthquakes, volcanic eruptions; frequent droughts

European Union
  flooding along coasts; avalanches in mountainous
  area; earthquakes in the south; volcanic eruptions in Italy;
  periodic droughts in Spain; ice floes in the Baltic

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  strong winds persist throughout
  the year

Faroe Islands
  NA

Fiji
  cyclonic storms can occur from November to January

Finland
  NA

France
  metropolitan France: flooding; avalanches; midwinter
  windstorms; drought; forest fires in south near the Mediterranean
  overseas departments: hurricanes (cyclones), flooding, volcanic
  activity (Guadeloupe, Martinique, Reunion)

French Polynesia
  occasional cyclonic storms in January

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  Ile Amsterdam and Ile Saint-Paul
  are inactive volcanoes; Iles Eparses subject to periodic cyclones;
  Bassas da India is a maritime hazard since it is under water for a
  period of three hours prior to and following the high tide and
  surrounded by reefs

Gabon
  NA

Gambia, The
  drought (rainfall has dropped by 30% in the last 30
  years)

Gaza Strip
  droughts

Georgia
  earthquakes

Germany
  flooding

Ghana
  dry, dusty, northeastern harmattan winds occur from January to
  March; droughts

Gibraltar
  NA

Greece
  severe earthquakes

Greenland
  continuous permafrost over northern two-thirds of the
  island

Grenada
  lies on edge of hurricane belt; hurricane season lasts from
  June to November

Guam
  frequent squalls during rainy season; relatively rare, but
  potentially very destructive typhoons (June - December)

Guatemala
  numerous volcanoes in mountains, with occasional violent
  earthquakes; Caribbean coast extremely susceptible to hurricanes and
  other tropical storms

Guernsey
  NA

Guinea
  hot, dry, dusty harmattan haze may reduce visibility during
  dry season

Guinea-Bissau
  hot, dry, dusty harmattan haze may reduce visibility
  during dry season; brush fires

Guyana
  flash floods are a constant threat during rainy seasons

Haiti
  lies in the middle of the hurricane belt and subject to severe
  storms from June to October; occasional flooding and earthquakes;
  periodic droughts

Heard Island and McDonald Islands
  Mawson Peak, an active volcano, is
  on Heard Island

Holy See (Vatican City)
  NA

Honduras
  frequent, but generally mild, earthquakes; extremely
  susceptible to damaging hurricanes and floods along the Caribbean
  coast

Hong Kong
  occasional typhoons

Iceland
  earthquakes and volcanic activity

India
  droughts; flash floods, as well as widespread and destructive
  flooding from monsoonal rains; severe thunderstorms; earthquakes

Indian Ocean
  occasional icebergs pose navigational hazard in
  southern reaches

Indonesia
  occasional floods, severe droughts, tsunamis, earthquakes,
  volcanoes, forest fires

Iran
  periodic droughts, floods; dust storms, sandstorms; earthquakes

Iraq
  dust storms, sandstorms, floods

Ireland
  NA

Isle of Man
  NA

Israel
  sandstorms may occur during spring and summer; droughts;
  periodic earthquakes

Italy
  regional risks include landslides, mudflows, avalanches,
  earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, flooding; land subsidence in Venice

Jamaica
  hurricanes (especially July to November)

Jan Mayen
  dominated by the volcano Haakon VII Toppen/Beerenberg;
  volcanic activity resumed in 1970; the most recent eruption occurred
  in 1985

Japan
  many dormant and some active volcanoes; about 1,500 seismic
  occurrences (mostly tremors) every year; tsunamis; typhoons

Jersey
  NA

Jordan
  droughts; periodic earthquakes

Kazakhstan
  earthquakes in the south, mudslides around Almaty

Kenya
  recurring drought; flooding during rainy seasons

Kiribati
  typhoons can occur any time, but usually November to March;
  occasional tornadoes; low level of some of the islands make them
  sensitive to changes in sea level

Korea, North
  late spring droughts often followed by severe flooding;
  occasional typhoons during the early fall

Korea, South
  occasional typhoons bring high winds and floods;
  low-level seismic activity common in southwest

Kuwait
  sudden cloudbursts are common from October to April and bring
  heavy rain, which can damage roads and houses; sandstorms and dust
  storms occur throughout the year but are most common between March
  and August

Kyrgyzstan
  NA

Laos
  floods, droughts

Latvia
  NA

Lebanon
  dust storms, sandstorms

Lesotho
  periodic droughts

Liberia
  dust-laden harmattan winds blow from the Sahara (December to
  March)

Libya
  hot, dry, dust-laden ghibli is a southern wind lasting one to
  four days in spring and fall; dust storms, sandstorms

Liechtenstein
  NA

Lithuania
  NA

Luxembourg
  NA

Macau
  typhoons

Macedonia
  high seismic risks

Madagascar
  periodic cyclones, drought, and locust infestation

Malawi
  NA

Malaysia
  flooding, landslides, forest fires

Maldives
  low level of islands makes them sensitive to sea level rise

Mali
  hot, dust-laden harmattan haze common during dry seasons;
  recurring droughts; occasional Niger River flooding

Malta
  NA

Marshall Islands
  infrequent typhoons

Mauritania
  hot, dry, dust/sand-laden sirocco wind blows primarily in
  March and April; periodic droughts

Mauritius
  cyclones (November to April); almost completely surrounded
  by reefs that may pose maritime hazards

Mayotte
  cyclones during rainy season

Mexico
  tsunamis along the Pacific coast, volcanoes and destructive
  earthquakes in the center and south, and hurricanes on the Pacific,
  Gulf of Mexico, and Caribbean coasts

Micronesia, Federated States of
  typhoons (June to December)

Moldova
  landslides

Monaco
  NA

Mongolia
  dust storms, grassland and forest fires, drought, and
  "zud," which is harsh winter conditions

Montenegro
  destructive earthquakes

Montserrat
  severe hurricanes (June to November); volcanic eruptions
  (Soufriere Hills volcano has erupted continuously since 1995)

Morocco
  northern mountains geologically unstable and subject to
  earthquakes; periodic droughts

Mozambique
  severe droughts; devastating cyclones and floods in
  central and southern provinces

Namibia
  prolonged periods of drought

Nauru
  periodic droughts

Navassa Island
  hurricanes

Nepal
  severe thunderstorms, flooding, landslides, drought, and
  famine depending on the timing, intensity, and duration of the
  summer monsoons

Netherlands
  flooding

Netherlands Antilles
  Sint Maarten, Saba, and Sint Eustatius are
  subject to hurricanes from July to October; Curacao and Bonaire are
  south of Caribbean hurricane belt and are rarely threatened

New Caledonia
  cyclones, most frequent from November to March

New Zealand
  earthquakes are common, though usually not severe;
  volcanic activity

Nicaragua
  destructive earthquakes, volcanoes, landslides; extremely
  susceptible to hurricanes

Niger
  recurring droughts

Nigeria
  periodic droughts; flooding

Niue
  typhoons

Norfolk Island
  typhoons (especially May to July)

Northern Mariana Islands
  active volcanoes on Pagan and Agrihan;
  typhoons (especially August to November)

Norway
  rockslides, avalanches

Oman
  summer winds often raise large sandstorms and dust storms in
  interior; periodic droughts

Pacific Ocean
  surrounded by a zone of violent volcanic and
  earthquake activity sometimes referred to as the "Pacific Ring of
  Fire"; subject to tropical cyclones (typhoons) in southeast and east
  Asia from May to December (most frequent from July to October);
  tropical cyclones (hurricanes) may form south of Mexico and strike
  Central America and Mexico from June to October (most common in
  August and September); cyclical El Nino/La Nina phenomenon occurs in
  the equatorial Pacific, influencing weather in the Western
  Hemisphere and the western Pacific; ships subject to superstructure
  icing in extreme north from October to May; persistent fog in the
  northern Pacific can be a maritime hazard from June to December

Pakistan
  frequent earthquakes, occasionally severe especially in
  north and west; flooding along the Indus after heavy rains (July and
  August)

Palau
  typhoons (June to December)

Panama
  occasional severe storms and forest fires in the Darien area

Papua New Guinea
  active volcanism; situated along the Pacific "Ring
  of Fire"; the country is subject to frequent and sometimes severe
  earthquakes; mud slides; tsunamis

Paracel Islands
  typhoons

Paraguay
  local flooding in southeast (early September to June);
  poorly drained plains may become boggy (early October to June)

Peru
  earthquakes, tsunamis, flooding, landslides, mild volcanic
  activity

Philippines
  astride typhoon belt, usually affected by 15 and struck
  by five to six cyclonic storms per year; landslides; active
  volcanoes; destructive earthquakes; tsunamis

Pitcairn Islands
  typhoons (especially November to March)

Poland
  flooding

Portugal
  Azores subject to severe earthquakes

Puerto Rico
  periodic droughts; hurricanes

Qatar
  haze, dust storms, sandstorms common

Romania
  earthquakes, most severe in south and southwest; geologic
  structure and climate promote landslides

Russia
  permafrost over much of Siberia is a major impediment to
  development; volcanic activity in the Kuril Islands; volcanoes and
  earthquakes on the Kamchatka Peninsula; spring floods and
  summer/autumn forest fires throughout Siberia and parts of European
  Russia

Rwanda
  periodic droughts; the volcanic Virunga mountains are in the
  northwest along the border with Democratic Republic of the Congo

Saint Helena
  active volcanism on Tristan da Cunha, last eruption in
  1961

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  hurricanes (July to October)

Saint Lucia
  hurricanes and volcanic activity

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  persistent fog throughout the year can be
  a maritime hazard

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  hurricanes; Soufriere volcano on
  the island of Saint Vincent is a constant threat

Samoa
  occasional typhoons; active volcanism

San Marino
  NA

Sao Tome and Principe
  NA

Saudi Arabia
  frequent sand and dust storms

Senegal
  lowlands seasonally flooded; periodic droughts

Serbia
  destructive earthquakes

Seychelles
  lies outside the cyclone belt, so severe storms are rare;
  short droughts possible

Sierra Leone
  dry, sand-laden harmattan winds blow from the Sahara
  (December to February); sandstorms, dust storms

Singapore
  NA

Slovakia
  NA

Slovenia
  flooding and earthquakes

Solomon Islands
  typhoons, but rarely destructive; geologically
  active region with frequent earthquakes, tremors, and volcanic
  activity; tsunamis

Somalia
  recurring droughts; frequent dust storms over eastern plains
  in summer; floods during rainy season

South Africa
  prolonged droughts

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  the South Sandwich
  Islands have prevailing weather conditions that generally make them
  difficult to approach by ship; they are also subject to active
  volcanism

Southern Ocean
  huge icebergs with drafts up to several hundred
  meters; smaller bergs and iceberg fragments; sea ice (generally 0.5
  to 1 m thick) with sometimes dynamic short-term variations and with
  large annual and interannual variations; deep continental shelf
  floored by glacial deposits varying widely over short distances;
  high winds and large waves much of the year; ship icing, especially
  May-October; most of region is remote from sources of search and
  rescue

Spain
  periodic droughts

Spratly Islands
  typhoons; numerous reefs and shoals pose a serious
  maritime hazard

Sri Lanka
  occasional cyclones and tornadoes

Sudan
  dust storms and periodic persistent droughts

Suriname
  NA

Svalbard
  ice floes often block the entrance to Bellsund (a transit
  point for coal export) on the west coast and occasionally make parts
  of the northeastern coast inaccessible to maritime traffic

Swaziland
  drought

Sweden
  ice floes in the surrounding waters, especially in the Gulf
  of Bothnia, can interfere with maritime traffic

Switzerland
  avalanches, landslides, flash floods

Syria
  dust storms, sandstorms

Taiwan
  earthquakes and typhoons

Tajikistan
  earthquakes and floods

Tanzania
  flooding on the central plateau during the rainy season;
  drought

Thailand
  land subsidence in Bangkok area resulting from the
  depletion of the water table; droughts

Timor-Leste
  floods and landslides are common; earthquakes, tsunamis,
  tropical cyclones

Togo
  hot, dry harmattan wind can reduce visibility in north during
  winter; periodic droughts

Tokelau
  lies in Pacific typhoon belt

Tonga
  cyclones (October to April); earthquakes and volcanic activity
  on Fonuafo'ou

Trinidad and Tobago
  outside usual path of hurricanes and other
  tropical storms

Tunisia
  NA

Turkey
  severe earthquakes, especially in northern Turkey, along an
  arc extending from the Sea of Marmara to Lake Van

Turkmenistan
  NA

Turks and Caicos Islands
  frequent hurricanes

Tuvalu
  severe tropical storms are usually rare, but, in 1997, there
  were three cyclones; low level of islands make them sensitive to
  changes in sea level

Uganda
  NA

Ukraine
  NA

United Arab Emirates
  frequent sand and dust storms

United Kingdom
  winter windstorms; floods

United States
  tsunamis, volcanoes, and earthquake activity around
  Pacific Basin; hurricanes along the Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico
  coasts; tornadoes in the midwest and southeast; mud slides in
  California; forest fires in the west; flooding; permafrost in
  northern Alaska, a major impediment to development

United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
  Baker, Howland, and
  Jarvis Islands: the narrow fringing reef surrounding the island can
  be a maritime hazard
  Kingman Reef: wet or awash most of the time, maximum elevation of
  less than 2 m makes Kingman Reef a maritime hazard
  Midway Islands, Johnston, and Palmyra Atolls: NA

Uruguay
  seasonally high winds (the pampero is a chilly and
  occasional violent wind that blows north from the Argentine pampas),
  droughts, floods; because of the absence of mountains, which act as
  weather barriers, all locations are particularly vulnerable to rapid
  changes from weather fronts

Uzbekistan
  NA

Vanuatu
  tropical cyclones or typhoons (January to April); volcanic
  eruption on Aoba (Ambae) island began 27 November 2005, volcanism
  also causes minor earthquakes; tsunamis

Venezuela
  subject to floods, rockslides, mudslides; periodic droughts

Vietnam
  occasional typhoons (May to January) with extensive
  flooding, especially in the Mekong River delta

Virgin Islands
  several hurricanes in recent years; frequent and
  severe droughts and floods; occasional earthquakes

Wake Island
  occasional typhoons

Wallis and Futuna
  NA

West Bank
  droughts

Western Sahara
  hot, dry, dust/sand-laden sirocco wind can occur
  during winter and spring; widespread harmattan haze exists 60% of
  time, often severely restricting visibility

World
  large areas subject to severe weather (tropical cyclones),
  natural disasters (earthquakes, landslides, tsunamis, volcanic
  eruptions)

Yemen
  sandstorms and dust storms in summer

Zambia
  periodic drought, tropical storms (November to April)

Zimbabwe
  recurring droughts; floods and severe storms are rare

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2022  People - note


Cook Islands
  2001 census counted a resident population of 15,017

Cuba
  illicit emigration is a continuing problem; Cubans attempt to
  depart the island and enter the US using homemade rafts, alien
  smugglers, direct flights, or falsified visas; Cubans also use
  non-maritime routes to enter the US including direct flights to
  Miami and over-land via the southwest border

Germany
  second most populous country in Europe after Russia

Rwanda
  Rwanda is the most densely populated country in Africa

Trinidad and Tobago
  in 2007, the government of Trinidad and Tobago
  estimated the population to be 1.3 million

Turks and Caicos Islands
  destination and transit point for illegal
  Haitian immigrants bound for the Turks and Caicos Islands, The
  Bahamas, and the US

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2023  Area - comparative


Afghanistan
  slightly smaller than Texas

Akrotiri
  about 0.7 times the size of Washington, DC

Albania
  slightly smaller than Maryland

Algeria
  slightly less than 3.5 times the size of Texas

American Samoa
  slightly larger than Washington, DC

Andorra
  2.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Angola
  slightly less than twice the size of Texas

Anguilla
  about half the size of Washington, DC

Antarctica
  slightly less than 1.5 times the size of the US

Antigua and Barbuda
  2.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Arctic Ocean
  slightly less than 1.5 times the size of the US

Argentina
  slightly less than three-tenths the size of the US

Armenia
  slightly smaller than Maryland

Aruba
  slightly larger than Washington, DC

Ashmore and Cartier Islands
  about eight times the size of The Mall
  in Washington, DC

Atlantic Ocean
  slightly less than 6.5 times the size of the US

Australia
  slightly smaller than the US contiguous 48 states

Austria
  slightly smaller than Maine

Azerbaijan
  slightly smaller than Maine

Bahamas, The
  slightly smaller than Connecticut

Bahrain
  3.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Bangladesh
  slightly smaller than Iowa

Barbados
  2.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Belarus
  slightly smaller than Kansas

Belgium
  about the size of Maryland

Belize
  slightly smaller than Massachusetts

Benin
  slightly smaller than Pennsylvania

Bermuda
  about one-third the size of Washington, DC

Bhutan
  about one-half the size of Indiana

Bolivia
  slightly less than three times the size of Montana

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  slightly smaller than West Virginia

Botswana
  slightly smaller than Texas

Bouvet Island
  about 0.3 times the size of Washington, DC

Brazil
  slightly smaller than the US

British Indian Ocean Territory
  land area is about 0.3 times the size
  of Washington, DC

British Virgin Islands
  about 0.9 times the size of Washington, DC

Brunei
  slightly smaller than Delaware

Bulgaria
  slightly larger than Tennessee

Burkina Faso
  slightly larger than Colorado

Burma
  slightly smaller than Texas

Burundi
  slightly smaller than Maryland

Cambodia
  slightly smaller than Oklahoma

Cameroon
  slightly larger than California

Canada
  somewhat larger than the US

Cape Verde
  slightly larger than Rhode Island

Cayman Islands
  1.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Central African Republic
  slightly smaller than Texas

Chad
  slightly more than three times the size of California

Chile
  slightly smaller than twice the size of Montana

China
  slightly smaller than the US

Christmas Island
  about three-quarters the size of Washington, DC

Clipperton Island
  about 12 times the size of The Mall in Washington,
  DC

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  about 24 times the size of The Mall in
  Washington, DC

Colombia
  slightly less than twice the size of Texas

Comoros
  slightly more than 12 times the size of Washington, DC

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  slightly less than one-fourth the
  size of the US

Congo, Republic of the
  slightly smaller than Montana

Cook Islands
  1.3 times the size of Washington, DC

Coral Sea Islands
  NA

Costa Rica
  slightly smaller than West Virginia

Cote d'Ivoire
  slightly larger than New Mexico

Croatia
  slightly smaller than West Virginia

Cuba
  slightly smaller than Pennsylvania

Cyprus
  about 0.6 times the size of Connecticut

Czech Republic
  slightly smaller than South Carolina

Denmark
  slightly less than twice the size of Massachusetts

Dhekelia
  about three-quarters the size of Washington, DC

Djibouti
  slightly smaller than Massachusetts

Dominica
  slightly more than four times the size of Washington, DC

Dominican Republic
  slightly more than twice the size of New Hampshire

Ecuador
  slightly smaller than Nevada

Egypt
  slightly more than three times the size of New Mexico

El Salvador
  slightly smaller than Massachusetts

Equatorial Guinea
  slightly smaller than Maryland

Eritrea
  slightly larger than Pennsylvania

Estonia
  slightly smaller than New Hampshire and Vermont combined

Ethiopia
  slightly less than twice the size of Texas

European Union
  less than one-half the size of the US

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  slightly smaller than Connecticut

Faroe Islands
  eight times the size of Washington, DC

Fiji
  slightly smaller than New Jersey

Finland
  slightly smaller than Montana

France
  slightly less than the size of Texas

French Polynesia
  slightly less than one-third the size of Connecticut

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  Ile Amsterdam (Ile Amsterdam et
  Ile Saint-Paul): less than one-half the size of Washington, DC
  Ile Saint-Paul (Ile Amsterdam et Ile Saint-Paul): more than 10 times
  the size of The Mall in Washington, DC
  Iles Crozet: about twice the size of Washington, DC
  Iles Kerguelen: a little larger than Delaware
  Bassas da India (Iles Eparses): land area about one-third the size
  of The Mall in Washington, DC
  Europa Island (Iles Eparses): about one-sixth the size of
  Washington, DC
  Glorioso Islands (Iles Eparses): about eight times the size of The
  Mall in Washington, DC
  Juan de Nova Island (Iles Eparses): about seven times the size of
  The Mall in Washington, DC
  Tromelin Island (Iles Eparses): about 1.7 times the size of The Mall
  in Washington, DC

Gabon
  slightly smaller than Colorado

Gambia, The
  slightly less than twice the size of Delaware

Gaza Strip
  slightly more than twice the size of Washington, DC

Georgia
  slightly smaller than South Carolina

Germany
  slightly smaller than Montana

Ghana
  slightly smaller than Oregon

Gibraltar
  a little less than one half the size of Rhode Island

Greece
  slightly smaller than Alabama

Greenland
  slightly more than three times the size of Texas

Grenada
  twice the size of Washington, DC

Guam
  three times the size of Washington, DC

Guatemala
  slightly smaller than Tennessee

Guernsey
  about one-half the size of Washington, DC

Guinea
  slightly smaller than Oregon

Guinea-Bissau
  slightly less than three times the size of Connecticut

Guyana
  slightly smaller than Idaho

Haiti
  slightly smaller than Maryland

Heard Island and McDonald Islands
  slightly more than two times the
  size of Washington, DC

Holy See (Vatican City)
  about 0.7 times the size of The Mall in
  Washington, DC

Honduras
  slightly larger than Tennessee

Hong Kong
  six times the size of Washington, DC

Hungary
  slightly smaller than Indiana

Iceland
  slightly smaller than Kentucky

India
  slightly more than one-third the size of the US

Indian Ocean
  about 5.5 times the size of the US

Indonesia
  slightly less than three times the size of Texas

Iran
  slightly larger than Alaska

Iraq
  slightly more than twice the size of Idaho

Ireland
  slightly larger than West Virginia

Isle of Man
  slightly more than three times the size of Washington, DC

Israel
  slightly smaller than New Jersey

Italy
  slightly larger than Arizona

Jamaica
  slightly smaller than Connecticut

Jan Mayen
  slightly more than twice the size of Washington, DC

Japan
  slightly smaller than California

Jersey
  about two-thirds the size of Washington, DC

Jordan
  slightly smaller than Indiana

Kazakhstan
  slightly less than four times the size of Texas

Kenya
  slightly more than twice the size of Nevada

Kiribati
  four times the size of Washington, DC

Korea, North
  slightly smaller than Mississippi

Korea, South
  slightly larger than Indiana

Kosovo
  slightly larger than Delaware

Kuwait
  slightly smaller than New Jersey

Kyrgyzstan
  slightly smaller than South Dakota

Laos
  slightly larger than Utah

Latvia
  slightly larger than West Virginia

Lebanon
  about 0.7 times the size of Connecticut

Lesotho
  slightly smaller than Maryland

Liberia
  slightly larger than Tennessee

Libya
  slightly larger than Alaska

Liechtenstein
  about 0.9 times the size of Washington, DC

Lithuania
  slightly larger than West Virginia

Luxembourg
  slightly smaller than Rhode Island

Macau
  less than one-sixth the size of Washington, DC

Macedonia
  slightly larger than Vermont

Madagascar
  slightly less than twice the size of Arizona

Malawi
  slightly smaller than Pennsylvania

Malaysia
  slightly larger than New Mexico

Maldives
  about 1.7 times the size of Washington, DC

Mali
  slightly less than twice the size of Texas

Malta
  slightly less than twice the size of Washington, DC

Marshall Islands
  about the size of Washington, DC

Mauritania
  slightly larger than three times the size of New Mexico

Mauritius
  almost 11 times the size of Washington, DC

Mayotte
  slightly more than twice the size of Washington, DC

Mexico
  slightly less than three times the size of Texas

Micronesia, Federated States of
  four times the size of Washington,
  DC (land area only)

Moldova
  slightly larger than Maryland

Monaco
  about three times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC

Mongolia
  slightly smaller than Alaska

Montenegro
  slightly smaller than Connecticut

Montserrat
  about 0.6 times the size of Washington, DC

Morocco
  slightly larger than California

Mozambique
  slightly less than twice the size of California

Namibia
  slightly more than half the size of Alaska

Nauru
  about 0.1 times the size of Washington, DC

Navassa Island
  about nine times the size of The Mall in Washington,
  DC

Nepal
  slightly larger than Arkansas

Netherlands
  slightly less than twice the size of New Jersey

Netherlands Antilles
  more than five times the size of Washington, DC

New Caledonia
  slightly smaller than New Jersey

New Zealand
  about the size of Colorado

Nicaragua
  slightly smaller than the state of New York

Niger
  slightly less than twice the size of Texas

Nigeria
  slightly more than twice the size of California

Niue
  1.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Norfolk Island
  about 0.2 times the size of Washington, DC

Northern Mariana Islands
  2.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Norway
  slightly larger than New Mexico

Oman
  slightly smaller than Kansas

Pacific Ocean
  about 15 times the size of the US; covers about 28% of
  the global surface; larger than the total land area of the world

Pakistan
  slightly less than twice the size of California

Palau
  slightly more than 2.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Panama
  slightly smaller than South Carolina

Papua New Guinea
  slightly larger than California

Paracel Islands
  NA

Paraguay
  slightly smaller than California

Peru
  slightly smaller than Alaska

Philippines
  slightly larger than Arizona

Pitcairn Islands
  about 0.3 times the size of Washington, DC

Poland
  slightly smaller than New Mexico

Portugal
  slightly smaller than Indiana

Puerto Rico
  slightly less than three times the size of Rhode Island

Qatar
  slightly smaller than Connecticut

Romania
  slightly smaller than Oregon

Russia
  approximately 1.8 times the size of the US

Rwanda
  slightly smaller than Maryland

Saint Barthelemy
  less than an eighth of the size of Washington, DC

Saint Helena
  slightly more than twice the size of Washington, DC

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  1.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Saint Lucia
  3.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Saint Martin
  more than one-third the size of Washington, DC

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  1.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  twice the size of Washington, DC

Samoa
  slightly smaller than Rhode Island

San Marino
  about one third times the size of Washington, DC

Sao Tome and Principe
  more than five times the size of Washington, DC

Saudi Arabia
  slightly more than one-fifth the size of the US

Senegal
  slightly smaller than South Dakota

Serbia
  slightly smaller than South Carolina

Seychelles
  2.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Sierra Leone
  slightly smaller than South Carolina

Singapore
  slightly more than 3.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Slovakia
  about twice the size of New Hampshire

Slovenia
  slightly smaller than New Jersey

Solomon Islands
  slightly smaller than Maryland

Somalia
  slightly smaller than Texas

South Africa
  slightly less than twice the size of Texas

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  slightly larger than
  Rhode Island

Southern Ocean
  slightly more than twice the size of the US

Spain
  slightly more than twice the size of Oregon

Spratly Islands
  NA

Sri Lanka
  slightly larger than West Virginia

Sudan
  slightly more than one-quarter the size of the US

Suriname
  slightly larger than Georgia

Svalbard
  slightly smaller than West Virginia

Swaziland
  slightly smaller than New Jersey

Sweden
  slightly larger than California

Switzerland
  slightly less than twice the size of New Jersey

Syria
  slightly larger than North Dakota

Taiwan
  slightly smaller than Maryland and Delaware combined

Tajikistan
  slightly smaller than Wisconsin

Tanzania
  slightly larger than twice the size of California

Thailand
  slightly more than twice the size of Wyoming

Timor-Leste
  slightly larger than Connecticut

Togo
  slightly smaller than West Virginia

Tokelau
  about 17 times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC

Tonga
  four times the size of Washington, DC

Trinidad and Tobago
  slightly smaller than Delaware

Tunisia
  slightly larger than Georgia

Turkey
  slightly larger than Texas

Turkmenistan
  slightly larger than California

Turks and Caicos Islands
  2.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Tuvalu
  0.1 times the size of Washington, DC

Uganda
  slightly smaller than Oregon

Ukraine
  slightly smaller than Texas

United Arab Emirates
  slightly smaller than Maine

United Kingdom
  slightly smaller than Oregon

United States
  about half the size of Russia; about three-tenths the
  size of Africa; about half the size of South America (or slightly
  larger than Brazil); slightly larger than China; more than twice the
  size of the European Union

United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
  Baker Island: about
  two and a half times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC
  Howland Island: about three times the size of The Mall in
  Washington, DC
  Jarvis Island: about eight times the size of The Mall in Washington,
  DC
  Johnston Atoll: about four and a half times the size of The Mall in
  Washington, DC
  Kingman Reef: a little more than one and a half times the size of
  The Mall in Washington, DC
  Midway Islands: about nine times the size of The Mall in Washington,
  DC
  Palmyra Atoll: about 20 times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC

Uruguay
  slightly smaller than the state of Washington

Uzbekistan
  slightly larger than California

Vanuatu
  slightly larger than Connecticut

Venezuela
  slightly more than twice the size of California

Vietnam
  slightly larger than New Mexico

Virgin Islands
  twice the size of Washington, DC

Wake Island
  about 11 times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC

Wallis and Futuna
  1.5 times the size of Washington, DC

West Bank
  slightly smaller than Delaware

Western Sahara
  about the size of Colorado

World
  land area about 16 times the size of the US

Yemen
  slightly larger than twice the size of Wyoming

Zambia
  slightly larger than Texas

Zimbabwe
  slightly larger than Montana

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2024  Military service age and obligation (years of age)


Afghanistan
  22 years of age; inductees are contracted into service
  for a 4-year term (2005)

Albania
  19 years of age (2004)

Algeria
  19-30 years of age for compulsory military service;
  conscript service obligation - 18 months (6 months basic training,
  12 months civil projects) (2006)

Angola
  17 years of age for compulsory military service; conscript
  service obligation - 2 years plus time for training (2001)

Antigua and Barbuda
  18 years of age for voluntary military service;
  no conscription (2008)

Argentina
  18-24 years of age for voluntary military service (18-21
  requires parental permission); no conscription (2001)

Armenia
  18-27 years of age for voluntary or compulsory military
  service; 2-year conscript service obligation (2007)

Australia
  17 years of age for voluntary military service (with
  parental consent); no conscription; women allowed to serve in Army
  combat units in non-combat support roles (2008)

Austria
  18-35 years of age for compulsory military service; 16 years
  of age for male or female voluntary service; service obligation 7
  months of training, followed by an 8-year reserve obligation (2006)

Azerbaijan
  men between 18 and 35 are liable for military service; 18
  years of age for voluntary military service; length of military
  service is 18 months and 12 months for university graduates (2006)

Bahamas, The
  18 years of age (est.); no conscription (2008)

Bahrain
  17 years of age for voluntary military service; 15 years of
  age for NCOs, technicians, and cadets; no conscription (2008)

Bangladesh
  16 years of age for voluntary military service; 17 years
  of age for officers (both with parental consent); conscription
  legally possible in emergency, but has never been implemented (2008)

Barbados
  18 years of age for voluntary military service (younger
  requires parental consent); no conscription (2008)

Belarus
  18-27 years of age for compulsory military service;
  conscript service obligation - 18 months (2005)

Belgium
  18 years of age for voluntary military service; conscription
  suspended (2008)

Belize
  18 years of age for voluntary military service; laws allow
  for conscription only if volunteers are insufficient; conscription
  has never been implemented; volunteers typically outnumber available
  positions by 3:1 (2008)

Benin
  21 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military service;
  in practice, volunteers may be taken at the age of 18; both sexes
  are eligible for military service; conscript tour of duty - 18
  months (2006)

Bermuda
  18-23 years of age; eligible men required to register for
  conscription as needed into the Bermuda Regiment, which is largely
  voluntary; term of service 39 months (2007)

Bhutan
  18 years of age for voluntary military service; no
  conscription (2008)

Bolivia
  18 years of age for 12-month compulsory military service;
  when annual number of volunteers falls short of goal, compulsory
  recruitment is effected, including conscription of boys as young as
  14; 15-19 years of age for voluntary premilitary service, provides
  exemption from further military service (2008)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  17 years of age for voluntary military
  service in the Federation and in the Republika Srpska; conscription
  abolished January 2006; 4-month service obligation (2006)

Botswana
  18 is the apparent age of voluntary military service; the
  official qualifications for determining minimum age are unknown
  (2001)

Brazil
  21-45 years of age for compulsory military service; conscript
  service obligation - 9 to 12 months; 17-45 years of age for
  voluntary service; an increasing percentage of the ranks are
  "long-service" volunteer professionals; women were allowed to serve
  in the armed forces beginning in early 1980s when the Brazilian Army
  became the first army in South America to accept women into career
  ranks; women serve in Navy and Air Force only in Women's Reserve
  Corps (2001)

Brunei
  18 years of age (est.) for voluntary military service;
  non-Malays are ineligible to serve (2007)

Bulgaria
  18-27 years of age for voluntary military service;
  conscript service obligation - 9 months; as of May 2006, 67% of the
  Bulgarian Army comprised of professional soldiers; conscription
  ended as of 1 January 2008; Air and Air Defense Forces and Naval
  Forces became fully professional at the end of 2006 (2008)

Burkina Faso
  18 years of age for compulsory military service; 20
  years of age for voluntary military service (2001)

Burma
  18 years of age for voluntary military service for both sexes;
  forced conscription of children, although officially prohibited,
  reportedly continues (2007)

Burundi
  16 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military
  service; children as young as 10 years of age have been conscripted
  into the armed forces; the enrollment of children is still not
  prohibited (2007)

Cambodia
  conscription law of October 2006 requires all males between
  18-30 to register for military service; 18-month service obligation
  (2006)

Cameroon
  18 years of age for voluntary military service; no
  conscription; the government makes periodic calls for volunteers
  (2006)

Canada
  17 years of age for male and female voluntary military
  service (with parental consent); 16 years of age for reserve and
  military college applicants; Canadian citizenship or permanent
  residence status required; maximum 34 years of age; service
  obligation 3-9 years (2008)

Cape Verde
  18 years of age (est.) for selective compulsory military
  service; 14-month conscript service obligation (2006)

Central African Republic
  18 years of age for compulsory and
  voluntary military service; 2-year conscript service obligation
  (2006)

Chad
  20 years of age for conscripts, with 3-year service obligation;
  18 years of age for volunteers; no minimum age restriction for
  volunteers with consent from a guardian; women are subject to 1 year
  of compulsory military or civic service at age of 21 (2004)

Chile
  18-45 years of age for voluntary male and female military
  service, although the right to compulsory recruitment is retained;
  service obligation - 12 months for Army, 22 months for Navy and Air
  Force (2008)

China
  18-22 years of age for selective compulsory military service,
  with 24-month service obligation; no minimum age for voluntary
  service (all officers are volunteers); 18-19 years of age for women
  high school graduates who meet requirements for specific military
  jobs (2007)

Colombia
  18-24 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military
  service; service obligation - 18 months (2004)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  18-45 years of age for military
  service

Congo, Republic of the
  18 years of age for voluntary military
  service; women allowed to serve (2007)

Cote d'Ivoire
  18 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military
  service (2008)

Croatia
  18-27 years of age for compulsory military service; 16 years
  of age with consent for voluntary service; 6-month conscript service
  obligation; full conversion to professional military service by 2010
  (2006)

Cuba
  17-28 years of age for compulsory military service; 2-year
  service obligation; both sexes subject to military service (2006)

Cyprus
  Greek Cypriot National Guard (GCNG): 18-50 years of age for
  compulsory military service for all Greek Cypriot males; 17 years of
  age for voluntary service; females are not conscripted; age of
  military eligibility 17 to 50; length of normal service is 25 months
  with a minimum of 3 months (2006)

Czech Republic
  18-28 years of age for voluntary and 19-28 for
  compulsory military service (2008)

Denmark
  18 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military
  service; conscripts serve an initial training period that varies
  from 4 to 12 months according to specialization; reservists are
  assigned to mobilization units following completion of their
  conscript service; women eligible to volunteer for military service
  (2004)

Djibouti
  18 years of age for voluntary military service; 16-25 years
  of age for voluntary military training; no conscription (2008)

Dominican Republic
  18 years of age for voluntary military service
  (2007)

Ecuador
  20 years of age for selective conscript military service;
  12-month service obligation (2008)

Egypt
  18-30 years of age for male conscript military service;
  service obligation 12-36 months, followed by a 9-year reserve
  obligation (2008)

El Salvador
  18 years of age for selective compulsory military
  service; 16 years of age for voluntary service; service obligation -
  8 months, but 11 months for officers and NCOs (2008)

Equatorial Guinea
  18 years of age (est.) for compulsory military
  service (2008)

Eritrea
  18-40 years of age for male and female voluntary and
  compulsory military service; 16-month conscript service obligation
  (2006)

Estonia
  compulsory military service for men between 19 and 28;
  conscription lasts 11 months for junior NCOs and reserve platoon
  leaders; reserve officers and designated specialists have a
  different conscript service obligation; Estonia has committed to
  retaining conscription for men up to 2010 and, unlike Latvia and
  Lithuania, has no plan to transition to a contract armed forces; 17
  years of age for volunteers; reserve commitment up to the age of 60
  (2006)

Ethiopia
  18 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military
  service; theoretically, no compulsory military service, but the
  military can conduct call-ups when necessary and compliance is
  compulsory (2008)

Fiji
  18 years of age for voluntary military service; reserve
  obligation to age 45 (2006)

Finland
  18 years of age for male voluntary and compulsory national
  military and nonmilitary service; service obligation 6-12 months
  (2008)

France
  17-40 years of age for male or female voluntary military
  service); no conscription; 12-month service obligation; women serve
  in noncombat military posts (2005)

Gabon
  20 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military service
  (2007)

Gambia, The
  18 years of age for voluntary military service; no
  conscription (2008)

Georgia
  18 to 34 years of age for compulsory and voluntary active
  duty military service; conscript service obligation - 18 months
  (2005)

Germany
  18 years of age (conscripts serve a 9-month tour of
  compulsory military service) (2004)

Ghana
  18 years of age for voluntary military service; no
  conscription (2008)

Greece
  19-45 years of age for compulsory military service; during
  wartime the law allows for recruitment beginning January of the year
  of inductee's 18th birthday, thus including 17 year olds; 17 years
  of age for volunteers; conscript service obligation - 1 year for all
  services; women are eligible for voluntary military service (2008)

Guatemala
  all male citizens between the ages of 18 and 50 are liable
  for military service; conscript service obligation varies from 12 to
  24 months; women can serve as officers (2007)

Guinea
  18 years of age for compulsory military service; 2-year
  conscript service obligation (2006)

Guinea-Bissau
  18 years of age for selective compulsory military
  service (2006)

Guyana
  18-25 years of age for voluntary military service; no
  conscription (2008)

Honduras
  18 years of age for voluntary 2 to 3-year military service
  (2004)

Hungary
  18 years of age for voluntary military service; conscription
  abolished in June 2004; 6-month service obligation, with reserve
  obligation to age 50 (2006)

India
  16 years of age for voluntary military service; no
  conscription; women officers allowed in noncombat roles only (2008)

Indonesia
  18 years of age for selective compulsory and voluntary
  military service; 2-year conscript service obligation, with reserve
  obligation to age 45 (officers); Indonesian citizens only (2008)

Iran
  19 years of age for compulsory military service; 16 years of
  age for volunteers; 17 years of age for Law Enforcement Forces; 15
  years of age for Basij Forces (Popular Mobilization Army); conscript
  military service obligation - 18 months; women exempt from military
  service (2008)

Iraq
  18-49 years of age for voluntary military service (2008)

Ireland
  17-25 years of age for male or female voluntary military
  service (17-27 years of age for the Naval Service); enlistees 16
  years of age can be recruited for apprentice specialist positions;
  maximum obligation 12 years; 17-35 years of age for the Reserve
  Defense Forces; EU citizenship or 5-year residence in Ireland
  required (2008)

Israel
  18 years of age for compulsory (Jews, Druzes) and voluntary
  (Christians, Muslims, Circassians) military service; both sexes are
  obligated to military service; conscript service obligation - 36
  months for enlisted men, 21 months for enlisted women, 48 months for
  officers; reserve obligation to age 41-51 (men), 24 (women) (2008)

Italy
  18-27 year of age for voluntary military service; conscription
  abolished January 2005; women may serve in any military branch;
  10-month service obligation, with a reserve obligation to age 45
  (Army and Air Force) or 39 (Navy) (2006)

Jamaica
  18 years of age for voluntary military service; younger
  recruits may be conscripted with parental consent (2001)

Japan
  18 years of age for voluntary military service (2001)

Jordan
  17 years of age for voluntary military service; conscription
  at age 18 was suspended in 1999, although all males under age 37 are
  required to register; women not subject to conscription, but can
  volunteer to serve in non-combat military positions (2004)

Kazakhstan
  18 years of age for compulsory military service;
  conscript service obligation - 2 years; minimum age for volunteers
  NA (2004)

Kenya
  18 years of age (est.) for voluntary service, with a 9-year
  obligation (2007)

Korea, North
  17 years of age (2004)

Korea, South
  20-30 years of age for compulsory military service,
  with middle school education required; conscript service obligation
  - 24-28 months, depending on the military branch involved (to be
  reduced to 18 months beginning 2016); 18-26 years of age for
  voluntary military service; women, in service since 1950, admitted
  to 7 service branches, including infantry, but excluded from
  artillery, armor, anti-air, and chaplaincy corps; some 4,000 women
  serve as commissioned and noncommissioned officers, approx. 2.3% of
  all officers (2008)

Kuwait
  18 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military
  service; reserve obligation to age 40 with 1 month annual training;
  women have served in police forces since 1999 (2006)

Kyrgyzstan
  18 years of age for compulsory military service (2001)

Laos
  15 years of age for compulsory military service; minimum
  18-month conscript service obligation (2006)

Latvia
  18 years of age for voluntary military service; conscription
  abolished January 2007; under current law, every citizen is entitled
  to serve in the armed forces for life (2006)

Lebanon
  18-30 years of age for voluntary military service; no
  conscription (2007)

Lesotho
  18 years of age for voluntary military service; no
  conscription (2008)

Liberia
  16 years of age for voluntary military service; no
  conscription (2008)

Libya
  17 years of age (2004)

Lithuania
  19-45 years of age for compulsory military service; 18
  years of age for volunteers; 12-month conscript service obligation
  (2006)

Luxembourg
  17-25 years of age for male and female voluntary military
  service; soldiers under 18 are not deployed into combat or with
  peacekeeping missions; no conscription; Luxembourg citizen or EU
  citizen with 3-year residence in Luxembourg (2008)

Macedonia
  18 years of age for voluntary military service (2007)

Madagascar
  18-25 years of age for male-only compulsory military
  service; 18-month conscript service obligation (either military or
  equivalent civil service); 20-30 years of age for National
  Gendarmerie recruits (35 years of age for those with military
  experience) (2008)

Malawi
  18 years of age for voluntary military service; standard
  obligation is 2 years of active duty and 5 years of reserve service
  (2007)

Malaysia
  18 years of age for voluntary military service (2005)

Maldives
  18 years of age for voluntary military service; no
  conscription (2008)

Mali
  18 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military service;
  conscript service obligation - 2 years (2008)

Malta
  17 years 6 months of age for voluntary military service; no
  conscription (2008)

Mauritania
  18 years of age (est.); conscript service obligation - 2
  years; majority of servicemen believed to be volunteers; service in
  Air Force and Navy is voluntary (2006)

Mexico
  18 years of age for compulsory military service, conscript
  service obligation - 12 months; 16 years of age with consent for
  voluntary enlistment; conscripts serve only in the Army; Navy and
  Air Force service is all voluntary; women are eligible for voluntary
  military service (2007)

Moldova
  18 years of age for compulsory military service; 12-month
  service obligation (2006)

Mongolia
  18-25 years of age for compulsory military service;
  conscript service obligation - 12 months in land or air defense
  forces or police; a small portion of Mongolian land forces (2.5
  percent) is comprised of contract soldiers; women cannot be deployed
  overseas for military operations (2006)

Montenegro
  compulsory national military service abolished August 2006

Morocco
  18 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military
  service; conscript service obligation - 18 months (2004)

Mozambique
  18-30 years of age for compulsory military service;
  2-year service obligation (2006)

Namibia
  18-25 years of age for voluntary military service; no
  conscription (2008)

Nepal
  18 years of age for voluntary military service; 15 years of
  age for military training; no conscription (2008)

Netherlands
  20 years of age for an all-volunteer force (2004)

Netherlands Antilles
  16 years of age for National Guard recruitment;
  no conscription (2004)

New Zealand
  17 years of age for voluntary military service; soldiers
  cannot be deployed until the age of 18; no conscription (2008)

Nicaragua
  17 years of age for voluntary military service; tour of
  duty 18-36 months (2008)

Niger
  17-21 years of age for voluntary military service; 2-year
  service term; women may serve in health care (2008)

Nigeria
  18 years of age for voluntary military service (2007)

Norway
  18-44 years of age for male compulsory military service; 16
  years of age in wartime; 17 years of age for male volunteers; 18
  years of age for women; 12-month service obligation, in practice
  shortened to 8 to 9 months; although all males between ages of 18
  and 44 are liable for service, in practice they are seldom called to
  duty after age 30; reserve obligation to age 35-60; 16 years of age
  for volunteers to the Home Guard, who serve 6-month duty tours (2006)

Oman
  18-30 years of age for voluntary military service; no
  conscription (2008)

Pakistan
  16 years of age for voluntary military service; soldiers
  cannot be deployed for combat until age of 18; the Pakistani Air
  Force and Pakistani Navy have inducted their first female pilots and
  sailors (2006)

Papua New Guinea
  16 years of age for voluntary military service; no
  conscription (2008)

Paraguay
  18 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military
  service; conscript service obligation - 12 months for Army, 24
  months for Navy (2006)

Peru
  18-30 years of age for voluntary male and female military
  service; no conscription (2008)

Philippines
  18-25 years of age (officers 21-29) for compulsory and
  voluntary military service; applicants must be single male or female
  Philippine citizens (2007)

Poland
  17 years of age for male compulsory military service after
  January 1st of the year of 18th birthday; 17 years of age for
  voluntary military service; conscript service obligation shortened
  from 12 to 9 months in 2005; by 2008, plans call for at least 60% of
  military personnel to be volunteers; only soldiers who have
  completed their conscript service are allowed to volunteer for
  professional service; as of April 2004, women are only allowed to
  serve as officers and noncommissioned officers (2006)

Portugal
  18 years of age for voluntary military service; compulsory
  military service ended in 2004; women serve in the armed forces, on
  naval ships since 1993, but are prohibited from serving in some
  combatant specialties; reserve obligation to age 35 (2007)

Qatar
  18 years of age for voluntary military service; no
  conscription (2008)

Romania
  18 years of age for voluntary military service; conscription
  officially ended October 2006; all military inductees (including
  women) contract for an initial 5-year term of service; subsequent
  voluntary service contracts are for successive 3-year terms until
  the age of 36 (2006)

Russia
  18-27 years of age for compulsory or voluntary military
  service; males are registered for the draft at 17 years of age;
  service obligation - 1 year; reserve obligation to age 50; as of
  July 2008, a draft military strategy called for the draft to
  continue up to the year 2030 (2008)

Rwanda
  18 years of age for voluntary military service; no
  conscription (2008)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  18 years of age for voluntary military
  service; no conscription (2008)

San Marino
  16-55 for voluntary service in Voluntary Military Force
  (2006)

Sao Tome and Principe
  18 years of age (est.) (2004)

Saudi Arabia
  18 years of age (est.); no conscription (2004)

Senegal
  18 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military
  service; conscript service obligation - 2 years (2004)

Serbia
  19-35 years of age for compulsory military service; under a
  state of war or impending war, conscription can begin at age 16;
  conscription is to be abolished in 2010; 9-month service obligation,
  with a reserve obligation to age 60 for men and 50 for women (2007)

Seychelles
  18 years of age for voluntary military service (younger
  with parental consent); no conscription (2008)

Sierra Leone
  17 years 6 months of age for voluntary military service
  (younger with parental consent); no conscription (2008)

Singapore
  18-21 years of age for male compulsory military service;
  16 years of age for volunteers; 2-year conscript service obligation,
  with a reserve obligation to age 40 (enlisted) or age 50 (officers)
  (2008)

Slovakia
  17-30 years of age for voluntary military service;
  conscription abolished in 2006; women are eligible to serve (2007)

Slovenia
  17 years of age for voluntary military service;
  conscription abolished in 2003 (2007)

South Africa
  18 years of age for voluntary military service; women
  have a long history of military service in noncombat roles dating
  back to World War I (2004)

Spain
  20 years of age (2004)

Sri Lanka
  18 years of age for voluntary military service (2007)

Sudan
  18-30 years of age for compulsory military service; 2-year
  service obligation (2006)

Suriname
  18 years of age (est.); recruitment is voluntary, with
  personnel drawn almost exclusively from the Creole community (2007)

Swaziland
  18-30 years of age for male and female voluntary military
  service; no conscription (2008)

Sweden
  19 years of age for compulsory military service; conscript
  service obligation: 7-15 months (Navy), 8-12 months (Air Force);
  after completing initial service, soldiers have a reserve commitment
  until age 47 (2006)

Switzerland
  19 years of age for male compulsory military service; 18
  years of age for voluntary male and female military service; the
  Swiss Constitution states that "every Swiss male is obliged to do
  military service"; every Swiss male has to serve at least 260 days
  in the armed forces; conscripts receive 18 weeks of mandatory
  training, followed by seven 3-week intermittent recalls for training
  during the next 10 years (2008)

Syria
  18 years of age for compulsory military service; conscript
  service obligation - 30 months (18 months in the Syrian Arab Navy);
  women are not conscripted but may volunteer to serve (2004)

Taiwan
  19-35 years of age for male compulsory military service;
  service obligation 14 months (reducing to 1 year in 2009) year;
  women may enlist; women in Air Force service are restricted to
  noncombat roles; reserve obligation to age 30 (Army); the Ministry
  of Defense has announced plans to implement an incremental voluntary
  enlistment system beginning 2010, with 10% fewer conscripts each
  year thereafter, although nonvolunteers will still be required to
  perform alternative service or go through 3-4 months of military
  training (2008)

Tajikistan
  18 years of age for compulsory military service; 2-year
  conscript service obligation (2007)

Tanzania
  18 years of age for voluntary military service (2007)

Thailand
  21 years of age for compulsory military service; 18 years
  of age for voluntary military service; males are registered at 18
  years of age; 2-year conscript service obligation (2006)

Timor-Leste
  18 years of age for voluntary military service; no
  conscription (2008)

Togo
  18 years of age for selective compulsory and voluntary military
  service; 2-year service obligation (2006)

Tonga
  18 years of age (est.); no conscription (2008)

Trinidad and Tobago
  18 years of age for voluntary military service
  (16 years of age with parental consent); no conscription (2008)

Tunisia
  20 years of age for compulsory military service; conscript
  service obligation - 12 months; 18 years of age for voluntary
  military service (2007)

Turkey
  20 years of age (2004)

Turkmenistan
  18-30 years of age for compulsory military service;
  2-year conscript service obligation (2007)

Uganda
  18-26 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military
  duty; 18-30 years of age for professionals; 9-year service
  obligation; the government has stated that recruitment below 18
  years of age could occur with proper consent and that "no person
  under the apparent age of 13 years shall be enrolled in the armed
  forces"; Ugandan citizenship and secondary education required (2008)

Ukraine
  18-25 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military
  service; conscript service obligation - 18 months for Army and Air
  Force, 24 months for Navy (2004)

United Arab Emirates
  18 years of age (est.) for voluntary military
  service; 18 years of age for officers and women; no conscription
  (2008)

United Kingdom
  16-33 years of age (officers 17-28) for voluntary
  military service (with parental consent under 18); women serve in
  military services, but are excluded from ground combat positions and
  some naval postings; must be citizen of the UK, Commonwealth, or
  Republic of Ireland; reservists serve a minimum of 3 years, to age
  45 or 55; 16 years of age for voluntary military service by Nepalese
  citizens in the Brigade of the Gurkhas; 16-34 years of age for
  voluntary military service by Papua New Guinean citizens (2008)

United States
  18 years of age (17 years of age with parental
  consent) for male and female voluntary service; maximum enlistment
  age 42 (Army), 27 (Air Force), 34 (Navy), 28 (Marines); service
  obligation 8 years, including 2-5 years active duty (Army), 2 years
  active (Navy), 4 years active (Air Force, Marines) (2008)

Uruguay
  18 years of age for voluntary and compulsory military
  service; enlistment is voluntary in peacetime, but the government
  has the authority to conscript in emergencies (2007)

Uzbekistan
  18 years of age for compulsory military service; 1-year
  conscript service obligation; moving toward a professional military,
  but conscription will continue; the military cannot accommodate
  everyone who wishes to enlist, and competition for entrance into the
  military is similar to the competition for admission to universities
  (2007)

Venezuela
  18-30 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military
  service; 30-month conscript service obligation - all citizens 18-50
  years old are obligated to register for military service (2008)

Vietnam
  18 years of age (male) for compulsory military service;
  females may volunteer for active duty military service; conscript
  service obligation - 2 years (3 to 4 years in the navy); 18-45 years
  of age (male) or 18-40 years of age (female) for Militia Force or
  Self Defense Forces (2006)

Yemen
  voluntary military service program authorized in 2001; 2-year
  service obligation (2006)

Zambia
  18 years of age for voluntary military service (16 years of
  age with parental consent); no conscription (2008)

Zimbabwe
  18-24 years of age for compulsory military service; women
  are eligible to serve (2007)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2025  Manpower fit for military service


Afghanistan
  males age 16-49: 4,234,180
  females age 16-49: 3,946,685 (2008 est.)

Albania
  males age 16-49: 798,454
  females age 16-49: 767,143 (2008 est.)

Algeria
  males age 16-49: 8,141,864
  females age 16-49: 8,215,895 (2008 est.)

Andorra
  males age 16-49: 14,976 (2008 est.)

Angola
  males age 16-49: 1,430,658
  females age 16-49: 1,371,689 (2008 est.)

Anguilla
  males age 16-49: 2,929 (2008 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  males age 16-49: 15,591
  females age 16-49: 15,542 (2008 est.)

Argentina
  males age 16-49: 8,352,147
  females age 16-49: 8,366,781 (2008 est.)

Armenia
  males age 16-49: 637,776
  females age 16-49: 729,846 (2008 est.)

Aruba
  males age 16-49: 20,173
  females age 16-49: 21,062 (2008 est.)

Australia
  males age 16-49: 4,137,176
  females age 16-49: 4,022,588 (2008 est.)

Austria
  males age 16-49: 1,617,385
  females age 16-49: 1,583,886 (2008 est.)

Azerbaijan
  males age 16-49: 1,696,167
  females age 16-49: 1,923,556 (2008 est.)

Bahamas, The
  males age 16-49: 50,282 (2008 est.)

Bahrain
  males age 16-49: 171,536
  females age 16-49: 142,714 (2008 est.)

Bangladesh
  males age 16-49: 31,968,168 (2008 est.)

Barbados
  males age 16-49: 58,556
  females age 16-49: 58,143 (2008 est.)

Belarus
  males age 16-49: 1,727,974
  females age 16-49: 2,093,106 (2008 est.)

Belgium
  males age 16-49: 1,973,167
  females age 16-49: 1,915,990 (2008 est.)

Belize
  males age 16-49: 54,627
  females age 16-49: 53,500 (2008 est.)

Benin
  males age 16-49: 1,173,742
  females age 16-49: 1,162,113 (2008 est.)

Bermuda
  males age 16-49: 12,682 (2008 est.)

Bhutan
  males age 16-49: 146,063
  females age 16-49: 131,193 (2008 est.)

Bolivia
  males age 16-49: 1,600,219
  females age 16-49: 1,815,514 (2008 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  males age 16-49: 996,225
  females age 16-49: 962,927 (2008 est.)

Botswana
  males age 16-49: 290,093
  females age 16-49: 257,700 (2008 est.)

Brazil
  males age 16-49: 39,263,710
  females age 16-49: 44,109,056 (2008 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  males age 16-49: 5,921 (2008 est.)

Brunei
  males age 16-49: 91,297
  females age 16-49: 93,228 (2008 est.)

Bulgaria
  males age 16-49: 1,364,029
  females age 16-49: 1,401,348 (2008 est.)

Burkina Faso
  males age 16-49: 2,115,948 (2008 est.)

Burma
  males age 16-49: 9,031,046
  females age 16-49: 9,396,547 (2008 est.)

Burundi
  males age 16-49: 1,083,899
  females age 16-49: 1,062,488 (2008 est.)

Cambodia
  males age 16-49: 2,581,045
  females age 16-49: 2,676,075 (2008 est.)

Cameroon
  males age 16-49: 2,567,428
  females age 16-49: 2,498,990 (2008 est.)

Canada
  males age 16-49: 6,646,281
  females age 16-49: 6,417,924 (2008 est.)

Cape Verde
  males age 16-49: 83,082
  females age 16-49: 88,832 (2008 est.)

Cayman Islands
  males age 16-49: 9,577 (2008 est.)

Central African Republic
  males age 16-49: 534,141
  females age 16-49: 495,303 (2008 est.)

Chad
  males age 16-49: 1,066,565
  females age 16-49: 1,279,318 (2008 est.)

Chile
  males age 16-49: 3,542,448
  females age 16-49: 3,500,059 (2008 est.)

China
  males age 16-49: 313,321,639
  females age 16-49: 295,951,438 (2008 est.)

Colombia
  males age 16-49: 8,056,336
  females age 16-49: 9,919,952 (2008 est.)

Comoros
  males age 16-49: 121,550
  females age 16-49: 131,015 (2008 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  males age 16-49: 8,562,989 (2008
  est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  males age 16-49: 519,296
  females age 16-49: 509,564 (2008 est.)

Costa Rica
  males age 16-49: 958,013
  females age 16-49: 925,727 (2008 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  males age 16-49: 2,393,104
  females age 16-49: 2,381,607 (2008 est.)

Croatia
  males age 16-49: 771,323
  females age 16-49: 855,937 (2008 est.)

Cuba
  males age 16-49: 2,543,044
  females age 16-49: 2,481,823 (2008 est.)

Cyprus
  Greek Cypriot National Guard (GCNG):
  males age 16-49: 165,042
  females age 16-49: 158,869 (2008 est.)

Czech Republic
  males age 16-49: 2,100,789
  females age 16-49: 2,018,101 (2008 est.)

Denmark
  males age 16-49: 1,012,716
  females age 16-49: 996,436 (2008 est.)

Djibouti
  males age 16-49: 54,460
  females age 16-49: 51,684 (2008 est.)

Dominica
  males age 16-49: 15,648 (2008 est.)

Dominican Republic
  males age 16-49: 2,020,490
  females age 16-49: 1,883,875 (2008 est.)

Ecuador
  males age 16-49: 3,030,664
  females age 16-49: 3,037,892 (2008 est.)

Egypt
  males age 16-49: 18,153,158
  females age 16-49: 17,405,837 (2008 est.)

El Salvador
  males age 16-49: 1,168,406
  females age 16-49: 1,519,375 (2008 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  males age 16-49: 101,712
  females age 16-49: 104,381 (2008 est.)

Eritrea
  males age 16-49: 715,531
  females age 16-49: 731,511 (2008 est.)

Estonia
  males age 16-49: 218,448
  females age 16-49: 264,187 (2008 est.)

Ethiopia
  males age 16-49: 10,060,775
  females age 16-49: 9,854,710 (2008 est.)

Faroe Islands
  males age 16-49: 9,735 (2008 est.)

Fiji
  males age 16-49: 189,282
  females age 16-49: 202,350 (2008 est.)

Finland
  males age 16-49: 965,131
  females age 16-49: 923,224 (2008 est.)

France
  males age 16-49: 12,110,718
  females age 16-49: 11,849,988 (2008 est.)

French Polynesia
  males age 16-49: 64,287 (2008 est.)

Gabon
  males age 16-49: 192,717
  females age 16-49: 188,539 (2008 est.)

Gambia, The
  males age 16-49: 230,202
  females age 16-49: 244,480 (2008 est.)

Gaza Strip
  males age 16-49: 291,467 (2008 est.)

Georgia
  males age 16-49: 910,720
  females age 16-49: 967,566 (2008 est.)

Germany
  males age 16-49: 15,906,930
  females age 16-49: 15,051,183 (2008 est.)

Ghana
  males age 16-49: 3,737,481
  females age 16-49: 3,729,699 (2008 est.)

Gibraltar
  males age 16-49: 5,244 (2008 est.)

Greece
  males age 16-49: 2,084,469
  females age 16-49: 2,065,956 (2008 est.)

Greenland
  males age 16-49: 10,739 (2008 est.)

Grenada
  males age 16-49: 20,249 (2008 est.)

Guatemala
  males age 16-49: 2,310,272
  females age 16-49: 2,622,450 (2008 est.)

Guinea
  males age 16-49: 1,268,193
  females age 16-49: 1,259,913 (2008 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  males age 16-49: 188,605
  females age 16-49: 195,429 (2008 est.)

Guyana
  males age 16-49: 150,623 (2008 est.)

Haiti
  males age 16-49: 1,303,743
  females age 16-49: 1,332,316 (2008 est.)

Honduras
  males age 16-49: 1,359,406
  females age 16-49: 1,371,418 (2008 est.)

Hong Kong
  males age 16-49: 1,438,165
  females age 16-49: 1,561,252 (2008 est.)

Hungary
  males age 16-49: 1,890,105
  females age 16-49: 1,943,422 (2008 est.)

Iceland
  males age 16-49: 62,342 (2008 est.)

India
  males age 16-49: 231,161,111
  females age 16-49: 236,633,962 (2008 est.)

Indonesia
  males age 16-49: 52,367,788
  females age 16-49: 52,129,123 (2008 est.)

Iran
  males age 16-49: 17,416,126
  females age 16-49: 16,928,226 (2008 est.)

Iraq
  males age 16-49: 6,019,795
  females age 16-49: 5,878,905 (2008 est.)

Ireland
  males age 16-49: 854,982
  females age 16-49: 852,592 (2008 est.)

Israel
  males age 16-49: 1,452,926
  females age 16-49: 1,383,796 (2008 est.)

Italy
  males age 16-49: 11,285,488
  females age 16-49: 10,680,672 (2008 est.)

Jamaica
  males age 16-49: 566,477
  females age 16-49: 583,075 (2008 est.)

Japan
  males age 16-49: 22.963 million
  females age 16-49: 22,134,127 (2008 est.)

Jordan
  males age 16-49: 1,546,766
  females age 16-49: 1,339,366 (2008 est.)

Kazakhstan
  males age 16-49: 2,871,205
  females age 16-49: 3,551,032 (2008 est.)

Kenya
  males age 16-49: 5,688,259
  females age 16-49: 5,396,166 (2008 est.)

Kiribati
  males age 16-49: 17,577 (2008 est.)

Korea, North
  males age 16-49: 5,141,240
  females age 16-49: 5,139,447 (2008 est.)

Korea, South
  males age 16-49: 11,282,699
  females age 16-49: 10,683,668 (2008 est.)

Kuwait
  males age 16-49: 892,816
  females age 16-49: 500,540 (2008 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  males age 16-49: 1,061,942
  females age 16-49: 1,211,249 (2008 est.)

Laos
  males age 16-49: 993,162
  females age 16-49: 1,052,053 (2008 est.)

Latvia
  males age 16-49: 412,849
  females age 16-49: 468,827 (2008 est.)

Lebanon
  males age 16-49: 934,828
  females age 16-49: 948,327 (2008 est.)

Lesotho
  males age 16-49: 262,101
  females age 16-49: 238,350 (2008 est.)

Liberia
  males age 16-49: 371,287
  females age 16-49: 373,265 (2008 est.)

Libya
  males age 16-49: 1,439,941
  females age 16-49: 1,381,914 (2008 est.)

Liechtenstein
  males age 16-49: 6,584 (2008 est.)

Lithuania
  males age 16-49: 678,434
  females age 16-49: 749,483 (2008 est.)

Luxembourg
  males age 16-49: 95,152
  females age 16-49: 93,792 (2008 est.)

Macau
  males age 16-49: 100,826 (2008 est.)

Macedonia
  males age 16-49: 444,693
  females age 16-49: 428,341 (2008 est.)

Madagascar
  males age 16-49: 3,034,600
  females age 16-49: 3,271,732 (2008 est.)

Malawi
  males age 16-49: 1,676,117 (2008 est.)

Malaysia
  males age 16-49: 5,374,006
  females age 16-49: 5,316,865 (2008 est.)

Maldives
  males age 16-49: 72,150
  females age 16-49: 69,058 (2008 est.)

Mali
  males age 16-49: 1,594,184
  females age 16-49: 1,529,871 (2008 est.)

Malta
  males age 16-49: 80,227
  females age 16-49: 76,623 (2008 est.)

Marshall Islands
  males age 16-49: 12,864 (2008 est.)

Mauritania
  males age 16-49: 463,305
  females age 16-49: 484,777 (2008 est.)

Mexico
  males age 16-49: 22,188,284
  females age 16-49: 24,884,614 (2008 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  males age 16-49: 21,748 (2008 est.)

Moldova
  males age 16-49: 877,070
  females age 16-49: 994,091 (2008 est.)

Monaco
  males age 16-49: 5,376 (2008 est.)

Mongolia
  males age 16-49: 696,652
  females age 16-49: 731,480 (2008 est.)

Montserrat
  males age 16-49: 2,097 (2008 est.)

Morocco
  males age 16-49: 7,627,988
  females age 16-49: 7,754,873 (2008 est.)

Mozambique
  males age 16-49: 2,287,526 (2008 est.)

Namibia
  males age 16-49: 313,497 (2008 est.)

Nepal
  males age 16-49: 5,146,958
  females age 16-49: 4,724,495 (2008 est.)

Netherlands
  males age 16-49: 3,233,773
  females age 16-49: 3,150,790 (2008 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  males age 16-49: 46,102
  females age 16-49: 47,219 (2008 est.)

New Caledonia
  males age 16-49: 47,342 (2008 est.)

New Zealand
  males age 16-49: 833,073
  females age 16-49: 822,807 (2008 est.)

Nicaragua
  males age 16-49: 1,235,400
  females age 16-49: 1,302,318 (2008 est.)

Niger
  males age 16-49: 1,665,108
  females age 16-49: 1,548,965 (2008 est.)

Nigeria
  males age 16-49: 18,556,755
  females age 16-49: 17,288,225 (2008 est.)

Norway
  males age 16-49: 888,101
  females age 16-49: 862,159 (2008 est.)

Oman
  males age 16-49: 663,881
  females age 16-49: 543,410 (2008 est.)

Pakistan
  males age 16-49: 32,453,913
  females age 16-49: 31,369,057 (2008 est.)

Palau
  males age 16-49: 4,397 (2008 est.)

Panama
  males age 16-49: 673,103 (2008 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  males age 16-49: 1,080,466
  females age 16-49: 1,092,040 (2008 est.)

Paraguay
  males age 16-49: 1,327,730
  females age 16-49: 1,356,989 (2008 est.)

Peru
  males age 16-49: 5,796,449
  females age 16-49: 6,217,524 (2008 est.)

Philippines
  males age 16-49: 18,232,050
  females age 16-49: 19,827,538 (2008 est.)

Poland
  males age 16-49: 7,937,840
  females age 16-49: 7,949,677 (2008 est.)

Portugal
  males age 16-49: 2,099,647
  females age 16-49: 2,060,559 (2008 est.)

Qatar
  males age 16-49: 258,159
  females age 16-49: 143,999 (2008 est.)

Romania
  males age 16-49: 4,572,017
  females age 16-49: 4,644,474 (2008 est.)

Russia
  males age 16-49: 21,488,878
  females age 16-49: 28,760,976 (2008 est.)

Rwanda
  males age 16-49: 1,404,066
  females age 16-49: 1,403,700 (2008 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  males age 16-49: 8,064
  females age 16-49: 8,464 (2008 est.)

Saint Lucia
  males age 16-49: 38,660 (2008 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  males age 16-49: 28,518 (2008 est.)

Samoa
  males age 16-49: 42,359 (2008 est.)

San Marino
  males age 16-49: 5,345 (2008 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe
  males age 16-49: 33,735
  females age 16-49: 36,779 (2008 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  males age 16-49: 7,398,417
  females age 16-49: 5,525,357 (2008 est.)

Senegal
  males age 16-49: 1,866,602
  females age 16-49: 1,947,076 (2008 est.)

Seychelles
  males age 16-49: 17,942
  females age 16-49: 20,436 (2008 est.)

Sierra Leone
  males age 16-49: 671,418 (2008 est.)

Singapore
  males age 16-49: 1,038,603 (2008 est.)

Slovakia
  males age 16-49: 1,166,833
  females age 16-49: 1,156,874 (2008 est.)

Slovenia
  males age 16-49: 406,951
  females age 16-49: 395,444 (2008 est.)

Solomon Islands
  males age 16-49: 116,891 (2008 est.)

Somalia
  males age 16-49: 1,274,783
  females age 16-49: 1,317,991 (2008 est.)

South Africa
  males age 16-49: 6,042,498
  females age 16-49: 5,471,103 (2008 est.)

Spain
  males age 16-49: 8,228,426
  females age 16-49: 7,990,678 (2008 est.)

Sri Lanka
  males age 16-49: 4,477,437
  females age 16-49: 4,683,716 (2008 est.)

Sudan
  males age 16-49: 5,586,468
  females age 16-49: 5,678,427 (2008 est.)

Suriname
  males age 16-49: 105,770
  females age 16-49: 109,666 (2008 est.)

Swaziland
  males age 16-49: 122,260 (2008 est.)

Sweden
  males age 16-49: 1,699,115
  females age 16-49: 1,637,868 (2008 est.)

Switzerland
  males age 16-49: 1,513,984
  females age 16-49: 1,478,761 (2008 est.)

Syria
  males age 16-49: 4,242,401
  females age 16-49: 4,218,648 (2008 est.)

Taiwan
  males age 16-49: 5,112,737
  females age 16-49: 5,036,346 (2008 est.)

Tajikistan
  males age 16-49: 1,391,287
  females age 16-49: 1,561,826 (2008 est.)

Tanzania
  males age 16-49: 5,278,833 (2008 est.)

Thailand
  males age 16-49: 12,968,674
  females age 16-49: 14,058,779 (2008 est.)

Timor-Leste
  males age 16-49: 224,096
  females age 16-49: 231,901 (2008 est.)

Togo
  males age 16-49: 897,195
  females age 16-49: 913,327 (2008 est.)

Tonga
  males age 16-49: 25,520
  females age 16-49: 26,893 (2008 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  males age 16-49: 215,310
  females age 16-49: 180,526 (2008 est.)

Tunisia
  males age 16-49: 2,539,962
  females age 16-49: 2,465,295 (2008 est.)

Turkey
  males age 16-49: 17,011,635
  females age 16-49: 16,433,364 (2008 est.)

Turkmenistan
  males age 16-49: 1,064,965
  females age 16-49: 1,136,553 (2008 est.)

Uganda
  males age 16-49: 3,856,365
  females age 16-49: 3,769,120 (2008 est.)

Ukraine
  males age 16-49: 7,141,814
  females age 16-49: 9,428,876 (2008 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  males age 16-49: 2,004,558
  females age 16-49: 760,637 (2008 est.)

United Kingdom
  males age 16-49: 12,121,602
  females age 16-49: 11,616,582 (2008 est.)

United States
  males age 16-49: 59,413,358
  females age 16-49: 59,187,183 (2008 est.)

Uruguay
  males age 16-49: 703,955
  females age 16-49: 690,296 (2008 est.)

Uzbekistan
  males age 16-49: 5,684,540
  females age 16-49: 6,432,976 (2008 est.)

Vanuatu
  males age 16-49: 40,577 (2008 est.)

Venezuela
  males age 16-49: 5,280,974
  females age 16-49: 5,768,814 (2008 est.)

Vietnam
  males age 16-49: 18,849,274
  females age 16-49: 20,575,884 (2008 est.)

Yemen
  males age 16-49: 3,585,947
  females age 16-49: 3,619,195 (2008 est.)

Zambia
  males age 16-49: 1,329,343
  females age 16-49: 1,218,114 (2008 est.)

Zimbabwe
  males age 16-49: 1,643,036
  females age 16-49: 1,404,663 (2008 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2026  Manpower reaching militarily significant age annually


Afghanistan
  male: 371,451
  female: 351,295 (2008 est.)

Albania
  male: 36,340
  female: 33,077 (2008 est.)

Algeria
  male: 374,365
  female: 360,942 (2008 est.)

American Samoa
  male: 806
  female: 781 (2008 est.)

Andorra
  male: 412
  female: 395 (2008 est.)

Angola
  male: 142,791
  female: 139,539 (2008 est.)

Anguilla
  male: 103
  female: 103 (2008 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  male: 744
  female: 742 (2008 est.)

Argentina
  male: 348,310
  female: 332,944 (2008 est.)

Armenia
  male: 30,548
  female: 29,170 (2008 est.)

Aruba
  male: 705
  female: 719 (2008 est.)

Australia
  male: 144,934
  female: 137,511 (2008 est.)

Austria
  male: 50,869
  female: 48,246 (2008 est.)

Azerbaijan
  male: 94,402
  female: 89,686 (2008 est.)

Bahamas, The
  male: 3,016
  female: 3,024 (2008 est.)

Bahrain
  male: 6,543
  female: 6,429 (2008 est.)

Bangladesh
  male: 1,311,850
  female: 1,246,012 (2008 est.)

Barbados
  male: 2,157
  female: 2,155 (2008 est.)

Belarus
  male: 64,232
  female: 60,788 (2008 est.)

Belgium
  male: 64,659
  female: 61,881 (2008 est.)

Belize
  male: 3,580
  female: 3,449 (2008 est.)

Benin
  male: 97,543
  female: 94,008 (2008 est.)

Bermuda
  male: 426
  female: 445 (2008 est.)

Bhutan
  male: 7,847
  female: 7,530 (2008 est.)

Bolivia
  male: 107,051
  female: 103,620 (2008 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  male: 30,246
  female: 28,189 (2008 est.)

Botswana
  male: 23,007
  female: 22,551 (2008 est.)

Brazil
  male: 1,666,791
  female: 1,608,363 (2008 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  male: 184
  female: 179 (2008 est.)

Brunei
  male: 3,223
  female: 3,182 (2008 est.)

Bulgaria
  male: 39,477
  female: 37,339 (2008 est.)

Burkina Faso
  male: 176,358
  female: 173,856 (2008 est.)

Burma
  male: 423,809
  female: 415,843 (2008 est.)

Burundi
  male: 98,105
  female: 98,533 (2008 est.)

Cambodia
  male: 185,959
  female: 182,558 (2008 est.)

Cameroon
  male: 212,205
  female: 207,545 (2008 est.)

Canada
  male: 227,435
  female: 215,556 (2008 est.)

Cape Verde
  male: 5,566
  female: 5,441 (2008 est.)

Cayman Islands
  male: 336
  female: 336 (2008 est.)

Central African Republic
  male: 54,655
  female: 54,420 (2008 est.)

Chad
  male: 116,824
  female: 117,831 (2008 est.)

Chile
  male: 147,518
  female: 141,139 (2008 est.)

China
  male: 10,760,380
  female: 9,710,032 (2008 est.)

Colombia
  male: 442,403
  female: 433,192 (2008 est.)

Comoros
  male: 7,901
  female: 7,894 (2008 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  male: 783,762
  female: 780,922 (2008 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  male: 45,671
  female: 45,248 (2008 est.)

Cook Islands
  male: 157
  female: 133 (2008 est.)

Costa Rica
  male: 40,767
  female: 38,899 (2008 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  male: 234,032
  female: 230,799 (2008 est.)

Croatia
  male: 27,500
  female: 25,893 (2008 est.)

Cuba
  male: 79,945
  female: 76,014 (2008 est.)

Cyprus
  male: 6,482
  female: 6,208 (2008 est.)

Czech Republic
  male: 63,124
  female: 59,786 (2008 est.)

Denmark
  male: 36,561
  female: 34,603 (2008 est.)

Djibouti
  male: 5,618
  female: 5,609 (2008 est.)

Dominica
  male: 756
  female: 713 (2008 est.)

Dominican Republic
  male: 96,971
  female: 93,116 (2008 est.)

Ecuador
  male: 144,821
  female: 139,091 (2008 est.)

Egypt
  male: 825,300
  female: 786,590 (2008 est.)

El Salvador
  male: 73,915
  female: 71,252 (2008 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  male: 6,784
  female: 6,543 (2008 est.)

Eritrea
  male: 60,490
  female: 60,639 (2008 est.)

Estonia
  male: 8,322
  female: 7,846 (2008 est.)

Ethiopia
  male: 887,061
  female: 896,048 (2008 est.)

Faroe Islands
  male: 400
  female: 387 (2008 est.)

Fiji
  male: 9,077
  female: 8,728 (2008 est.)

Finland
  male: 34,152
  female: 32,870 (2008 est.)

France
  male: 401,379
  female: 382,409 (2008 est.)

French Polynesia
  male: 2,699
  female: 2,589 (2008 est.)

Gabon
  male: 16,558
  female: 16,577 (2008 est.)

Gambia, The
  male: 19,650
  female: 19,582 (2008 est.)

Gaza Strip
  male: 19,275
  female: 18,309 (2008 est.)

Georgia
  male: 35,917
  female: 34,566 (2008 est.)

Germany
  male: 442,972
  female: 420,801 (2008 est.)

Ghana
  male: 273,265
  female: 267,204 (2008 est.)

Gibraltar
  male: 190
  female: 185 (2008 est.)

Greece
  male: 53,858
  female: 50,488 (2008 est.)

Greenland
  male: 534
  female: 503 (2008 est.)

Grenada
  male: 1,034
  female: 970 (2008 est.)

Guam
  male: 1,665
  female: 1,547 (2008 est.)

Guatemala
  male: 161,550
  female: 159,760 (2008 est.)

Guernsey
  male: 379
  female: 353 (2008 est.)

Guinea
  male: 106,967
  female: 104,631 (2008 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  male: 16,634
  female: 16,841 (2008 est.)

Guyana
  male: 6,713
  female: 6,451 (2008 est.)

Haiti
  male: 105,655
  female: 104,376 (2008 est.)

Honduras
  male: 90,876
  female: 87,292 (2008 est.)

Hong Kong
  male: 42,173
  female: 38,753 (2008 est.)

Hungary
  male: 62,197
  female: 59,267 (2008 est.)

Iceland
  male: 2,393
  female: 2,317 (2008 est.)

India
  male: 11,592,516
  female: 10,636,857 (2008 est.)

Indonesia
  male: 2,181,303
  female: 2,110,397 (2008 est.)

Iran
  male: 766,668
  female: 727,654 (2008 est.)

Iraq
  male: 302,926
  female: 294,747 (2008 est.)

Ireland
  male: 28,610
  female: 27,095 (2008 est.)

Isle of Man
  male: 471
  female: 447 (2008 est.)

Israel
  male: 60,602
  female: 57,532 (2008 est.)

Italy
  male: 290,740
  female: 273,569 (2008 est.)

Jamaica
  male: 32,000
  female: 31,428 (2008 est.)

Japan
  male: 622,168
  female: 590,153 (2008 est.)

Jersey
  male: 587
  female: 540 (2008 est.)

Jordan
  male: 68,067
  female: 65,512 (2008 est.)

Kazakhstan
  male: 145,495
  female: 140,149 (2008 est.)

Kenya
  male: 411,032
  female: 406,794 (2008 est.)

Kiribati
  male: 1,247
  female: 1,226 (2008 est.)

Korea, North
  male: 199,628
  female: 192,388 (2008 est.)

Korea, South
  male: 371,108
  female: 325,408 (2008 est.)

Kuwait
  male: 17,737
  female: 18,519 (2008 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  male: 60,706
  female: 58,721 (2008 est.)

Laos
  male: 73,973
  female: 72,758 (2008 est.)

Latvia
  male: 14,506
  female: 13,982 (2008 est.)

Lebanon
  male: 32,815
  female: 31,610 (2008 est.)

Lesotho
  male: 26,084
  female: 26,006 (2008 est.)

Liberia
  male: 30,448
  female: 29,902 (2008 est.)

Libya
  male: 61,305
  female: 58,788 (2008 est.)

Liechtenstein
  male: 202
  female: 222 (2008 est.)

Lithuania
  male: 25,907
  female: 24,735 (2008 est.)

Luxembourg
  male: 3,066
  female: 2,909 (2008 est.)

Macau
  male: 4,601
  female: 4,171 (2008 est.)

Macedonia
  male: 15,141
  female: 14,434 (2008 est.)

Madagascar
  male: 230,088
  female: 229,932 (2008 est.)

Malawi
  male: 168,858
  female: 168,946 (2008 est.)

Malaysia
  male: 260,725
  female: 247,309 (2008 est.)

Maldives
  male: 4,749
  female: 4,084 (2008 est.)

Mali
  male: 144,293
  female: 136,381 (2008 est.)

Malta
  male: 2,815
  female: 2,657 (2008 est.)

Marshall Islands
  male: 512
  female: 494 (2008 est.)

Mauritania
  male: 38,191
  female: 38,638 (2008 est.)

Mauritius
  male: 11,089
  female: 10,843 (2008 est.)

Mayotte
  male: 2,407
  female: 2,401 (2008 est.)

Mexico
  male: 1,110,544
  female: 1,073,223 (2008 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  male: 1,310
  female: 1,262 (2008 est.)

Moldova
  male: 33,053
  female: 31,712 (2008 est.)

Monaco
  male: 191
  female: 182 (2008 est.)

Mongolia
  male: 29,990
  female: 29,256 (2008 est.)

Montenegro
  male: 4,426
  female: 4,201 (2008 est.)

Montserrat
  male: 31
  female: 39 (2008 est.)

Morocco
  male: 355,479
  female: 343,016 (2008 est.)

Mozambique
  male: 257,261
  female: 259,114 (2008 est.)

Namibia
  male: 25,525
  female: 25,182 (2008 est.)

Nauru
  male: 173
  female: 159 (2008 est.)

Nepal
  male: 335,747
  female: 312,297 (2008 est.)

Netherlands
  male: 105,735
  female: 100,747 (2008 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  male: 1,855
  female: 1,760 (2008 est.)

New Caledonia
  male: 2,202
  female: 2,121 (2008 est.)

New Zealand
  male: 31,834
  female: 30,243 (2008 est.)

Nicaragua
  male: 72,689
  female: 70,452 (2008 est.)

Niger
  male: 150,728
  female: 143,379 (2008 est.)

Nigeria
  male: 1,663,025
  female: 1,585,224 (2008 est.)

Northern Mariana Islands
  male: 572
  female: 594 (2008 est.)

Norway
  male: 32,185
  female: 30,683 (2008 est.)

Oman
  male: 34,238
  female: 33,139 (2008 est.)

Pakistan
  male: 2,062,065
  female: 1,936,916 (2008 est.)

Palau
  male: 179
  female: 165 (2008 est.)

Panama
  male: 31,042
  female: 29,969 (2008 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  male: 62,865
  female: 61,102 (2008 est.)

Paraguay
  male: 72,109
  female: 70,509 (2008 est.)

Peru
  male: 306,260
  female: 296,819 (2008 est.)

Philippines
  male: 1,012,779
  female: 977,030 (2008 est.)

Poland
  male: 257,605
  female: 245,832 (2008 est.)

Portugal
  male: 64,910
  female: 58,599 (2008 est.)

Puerto Rico
  male: 30,760
  female: 29,469 (2008 est.)

Qatar
  male: 6,224
  female: 4,845 (2008 est.)

Romania
  male: 127,706
  female: 121,852 (2008 est.)

Russia
  male: 821,103
  female: 781,570 (2008 est.)

Rwanda
  male: 111,791
  female: 112,131 (2008 est.)

Saint Barthelemy
  male: 21
  female: 20 (2008 est.)

Saint Helena
  male: 47
  female: 43 (2008 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  male: 367
  female: 352 (2008 est.)

Saint Lucia
  male: 1,591
  female: 1,504 (2008 est.)

Saint Martin
  male: 186
  female: 162 (2008 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  male: 61
  female: 58 (2008 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  male: 1,224
  female: 1,169 (2008 est.)

Samoa
  male: 2,571
  female: 2,454 (2008 est.)

San Marino
  male: 156
  female: 154 (2008 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe
  male: 2,437
  female: 2,394 (2008 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  male: 271,905
  female: 261,795 (2008 est.)

Senegal
  male: 141,832
  female: 139,541 (2008 est.)

Serbia
  male: 66,263
  female: 62,165 (2008 est.)

Seychelles
  male: 770
  female: 750 (2008 est.)

Sierra Leone
  male: 70,068
  female: 73,930 (2008 est.)

Singapore
  male: 27,742
  female: 26,325 (2008 est.)

Slovakia
  male: 38,183
  female: 36,388 (2008 est.)

Slovenia
  male: 10,516
  female: 9,934 (2008 est.)

Solomon Islands
  male: 6,924
  female: 6,679 (2008 est.)

Somalia
  male: 95,446
  female: 95,339 (2008 est.)

South Africa
  male: 529,201
  female: 522,678 (2008 est.)

Spain
  male: 203,650
  female: 191,352 (2008 est.)

Sri Lanka
  male: 174,065
  female: 168,593 (2008 est.)

Sudan
  male: 488,679
  female: 469,547 (2008 est.)

Suriname
  male: 4,329
  female: 4,350 (2008 est.)

Swaziland
  male: 15,951
  female: 15,728 (2008 est.)

Sweden
  male: 64,605
  female: 61,110 (2008 est.)

Switzerland
  male: 49,205
  female: 45,220 (2008 est.)

Syria
  male: 215,734
  female: 203,106 (2008 est.)

Taiwan
  male: 164,883
  female: 152,085 (2008 est.)

Tajikistan
  male: 84,137
  female: 81,777 (2008 est.)

Tanzania
  male: 478,812
  female: 479,557 (2008 est.)

Thailand
  male: 531,315
  female: 511,288 (2008 est.)

Timor-Leste
  male: 13,045
  female: 12,670 (2008 est.)

Togo
  male: 69,156
  female: 69,200 (2008 est.)

Tonga
  male: 1,464
  female: 1,412 (2008 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  male: 8,671
  female: 8,153 (2008 est.)

Tunisia
  male: 101,794
  female: 95,198 (2008 est.)

Turkey
  male: 660,452
  female: 638,527 (2008 est.)

Turkmenistan
  male: 57,615
  female: 55,426 (2008 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  male: 222
  female: 214 (2008 est.)

Tuvalu
  male: 128
  female: 125 (2008 est.)

Uganda
  male: 384,638
  female: 381,990 (2008 est.)

Ukraine
  male: 288,605
  female: 276,324 (2008 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  male: 25,856
  female: 23,085 (2008 est.)

United Kingdom
  male: 400,927
  female: 383,593 (2008 est.)

United States
  male: 2,186,440
  female: 2,079,688 (2008 est.)

Uruguay
  male: 27,082
  female: 26,075 (2008 est.)

Uzbekistan
  male: 324,094
  female: 323,923 (2008 est.)

Vanuatu
  male: 2,385
  female: 2,290 (2008 est.)

Venezuela
  male: 275,323
  female: 274,106 (2008 est.)

Vietnam
  male: 903,734
  female: 845,306 (2008 est.)

Virgin Islands
  male: 861
  female: 897 (2008 est.)

Wallis and Futuna
  male: 172
  female: 170 (2008 est.)

West Bank
  male: 29,866
  female: 28,372 (2008 est.)

Western Sahara
  male: 4,658
  female: 4,545 (2008 est.)

Yemen
  male: 268,468
  female: 258,196 (2008 est.)

Zambia
  male: 147,358
  female: 146,771 (2008 est.)

Zimbabwe
  male: 144,601
  female: 147,627 (2008 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2028  Background


Afghanistan
  Ahmad Shah DURRANI unified the Pashtun tribes and
  founded Afghanistan in 1747. The country served as a buffer between
  the British and Russian empires until it won independence from
  notional British control in 1919. A brief experiment in democracy
  ended in a 1973 coup and a 1978 Communist counter-coup. The Soviet
  Union invaded in 1979 to support the tottering Afghan Communist
  regime, touching off a long and destructive war. The USSR withdrew
  in 1989 under relentless pressure by internationally supported
  anti-Communist mujahedin rebels. A series of subsequent civil wars
  saw Kabul finally fall in 1996 to the Taliban, a hardline
  Pakistani-sponsored movement that emerged in 1994 to end the
  country's civil war and anarchy. Following the 11 September 2001
  terrorist attacks in New York City, a US, Allied, and anti-Taliban
  Northern Alliance military action toppled the Taliban for sheltering
  Osama BIN LADIN. The UN-sponsored Bonn Conference in 2001
  established a process for political reconstruction that included the
  adoption of a new constitution, a presidential election in 2004, and
  National Assembly elections in 2005. In December 2004, Hamid KARZAI
  became the first democratically elected president of Afghanistan and
  the National Assembly was inaugurated the following December.
  Despite gains toward building a stable central government, a
  resurgent Taliban and continuing provincial instability -
  particularly in the south and the east - remain serious challenges
  for the Afghan Government.

Akrotiri
  By terms of the 1960 Treaty of Establishment that created
  the independent Republic of Cyprus, the UK retained full sovereignty
  and jurisdiction over two areas of almost 254 square kilometers -
  Akrotiri and Dhekelia. The southernmost and smallest of these is the
  Akrotiri Sovereign Base Area, which is also referred to as the
  Western Sovereign Base Area.

Albania
  Albania declared its independence from the Ottoman Empire in
  1912, but was conquered by Italy in 1939. Communist partisans took
  over the country in 1944. Albania allied itself first with the USSR
  (until 1960), and then with China (to 1978). In the early 1990s,
  Albania ended 46 years of xenophobic Communist rule and established
  a multiparty democracy. The transition has proven challenging as
  successive governments have tried to deal with high unemployment,
  widespread corruption, a dilapidated physical infrastructure,
  powerful organized crime networks, and combative political
  opponents. Albania has made progress in its democratic development
  since first holding multiparty elections in 1991, but deficiencies
  remain. International observers judged elections to be largely free
  and fair since the restoration of political stability following the
  collapse of pyramid schemes in 1997. In the 2005 general elections,
  the Democratic Party and its allies won a decisive victory on
  pledges of reducing crime and corruption, promoting economic growth,
  and decreasing the size of government. The election, and
  particularly the orderly transition of power, was considered an
  important step forward. Although Albania's economy continues to
  grow, the country is still one of the poorest in Europe, hampered by
  a large informal economy and an inadequate energy and transportation
  infrastructure. Albania has played a largely helpful role in
  managing inter-ethnic tensions in southeastern Europe, and is
  continuing to work toward joining NATO and the EU. Albania, with
  troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, has been a strong supporter of the
  global war on terrorism.

Algeria
  After more than a century of rule by France, Algerians
  fought through much of the 1950s to achieve independence in 1962.
  Algeria's primary political party, the National Liberation Front
  (FLN), has dominated politics ever since. Many Algerians in the
  subsequent generation were not satisfied, however, and moved to
  counter the FLN's centrality in Algerian politics. The surprising
  first round success of the Islamic Salvation Front (FIS) in the
  December 1991 balloting spurred the Algerian army to intervene and
  postpone the second round of elections to prevent what the secular
  elite feared would be an extremist-led government from assuming
  power. The army began a crackdown on the FIS that spurred FIS
  supporters to begin attacking government targets. The government
  later allowed elections featuring pro-government and moderate
  religious-based parties, but did not appease the activists who
  progressively widened their attacks. The fighting escalated into an
  insurgency, which saw intense fighting between 1992-98 and which
  resulted in over 100,000 deaths - many attributed to indiscriminate
  massacres of villagers by extremists. The government gained the
  upper hand by the late-1990s and FIS's armed wing, the Islamic
  Salvation Army, disbanded in January 2000. However, small numbers of
  armed militants persist in confronting government forces and
  conducting ambushes and occasional attacks on villages. The army
  placed Abdelaziz BOUTEFLIKA in the presidency in 1999 in a
  fraudulent election but claimed neutrality in his 2004 landslide
  reelection victory. Longstanding problems continue to face
  BOUTEFLIKA in his second term, including the ethnic minority
  Berbers' ongoing autonomy campaign, large-scale unemployment, a
  shortage of housing, unreliable electrical and water supplies,
  government inefficiencies and corruption, and the continuing
  activities of extremist militants. The 2006 merger of the Salafist
  Group for Preaching and Combat (GSPC) with al-Qaida (followed by a
  name change to al-Qaida in the Lands of the Islamic Maghreb)
  signaled an increase in bombings, including high-profile,
  mass-casualty suicide attacks targeted against the Algerian
  government and Western interests. Algeria must also diversify its
  petroleum-based economy, which has yielded a large cash reserve but
  which has not been used to redress Algeria's many social and
  infrastructure problems.

American Samoa
  Settled as early as 1000 B.C., Samoa was "discovered"
  by European explorers in the 18th century. International rivalries
  in the latter half of the 19th century were settled by an 1899
  treaty in which Germany and the US divided the Samoan archipelago.
  The US formally occupied its portion - a smaller group of eastern
  islands with the excellent harbor of Pago Pago - the following year.

Andorra
  For 715 years, from 1278 to 1993, Andorrans lived under a
  unique co-principality, ruled by French and Spanish leaders (from
  1607 onward, the French chief of state and the Spanish bishop of
  Urgel). In 1993, this feudal system was modified with the titular
  heads of state retained, but the government transformed into a
  parliamentary democracy. Long isolated and impoverished, mountainous
  Andorra achieved considerable prosperity since World War II through
  its tourist industry. Many immigrants (legal and illegal) are
  attracted to the thriving economy with its lack of income taxes.

Angola
  Angola is rebuilding its country after the end of a 27-year
  civil war in 2002. Fighting between the Popular Movement for the
  Liberation of Angola (MPLA), led by Jose Eduardo DOS SANTOS, and the
  National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA), led by
  Jonas SAVIMBI, followed independence from Portugal in 1975. Peace
  seemed imminent in 1992 when Angola held national elections, but
  UNITA renewed fighting after being beaten by the MPLA at the polls.
  Up to 1.5 million lives may have been lost - and 4 million people
  displaced - in the quarter century of fighting. SAVIMBI's death in
  2002 ended UNITA's insurgency and strengthened the MPLA's hold on
  power. President DOS SANTOS has announced legislative elections will
  be held in September 2008, with presidential elections planned for
  sometime in 2009.

Anguilla
  Colonized by English settlers from Saint Kitts in 1650,
  Anguilla was administered by Great Britain until the early 19th
  century, when the island - against the wishes of the inhabitants -
  was incorporated into a single British dependency, along with Saint
  Kitts and Nevis. Several attempts at separation failed. In 1971, two
  years after a revolt, Anguilla was finally allowed to secede; this
  arrangement was formally recognized in 1980, with Anguilla becoming
  a separate British dependency.

Antarctica
  Speculation over the existence of a "southern land" was
  not confirmed until the early 1820s when British and American
  commercial operators and British and Russian national expeditions
  began exploring the Antarctic Peninsula region and other areas south
  of the Antarctic Circle. Not until 1840 was it established that
  Antarctica was indeed a continent and not just a group of islands.
  Several exploration "firsts" were achieved in the early 20th
  century. Following World War II, there was an upsurge in scientific
  research on the continent. A number of countries have set up a range
  of year-round and seasonal stations, camps, and refuges to support
  scientific research in Antarctica. Seven have made territorial
  claims, but not all countries recognize these claims. In order to
  form a legal framework for the activities of nations on the
  continent, an Antarctic Treaty was negotiated that neither denies
  nor gives recognition to existing territorial claims; signed in
  1959, it entered into force in 1961.

Antigua and Barbuda
  The Siboney were the first to inhabit the
  islands of Antigua and Barbuda in 2400 B.C., but Arawak Indians
  populated the islands when COLUMBUS landed on his second voyage in
  1493. Early settlements by the Spanish and French were succeeded by
  the English who formed a colony in 1667. Slavery, established to run
  the sugar plantations on Antigua, was abolished in 1834. The islands
  became an independent state within the British Commonwealth of
  Nations in 1981.

Arctic Ocean
  The Arctic Ocean is the smallest of the world's five
  oceans (after the Pacific Ocean, Atlantic Ocean, Indian Ocean, and
  the recently delimited Southern Ocean). The Northwest Passage (US
  and Canada) and Northern Sea Route (Norway and Russia) are two
  important seasonal waterways. A sparse network of air, ocean, river,
  and land routes circumscribes the Arctic Ocean.

Argentina
  In 1816, the United Provinces of the Rio Plata declared
  their independence from Spain. After Bolivia, Paraguay, and Uruguay
  went their separate ways, the area that remained became Argentina.
  The country's population and culture were heavily shaped by
  immigrants from throughout Europe, but most particularly Italy and
  Spain, which provided the largest percentage of newcomers from 1860
  to 1930. Up until about the mid-20th century, much of Argentina's
  history was dominated by periods of internal political conflict
  between Federalists and Unitarians and between civilian and military
  factions. After World War II, an era of Peronist authoritarian rule
  and interference in subsequent governments was followed by a
  military junta that took power in 1976. Democracy returned in 1983,
  and has persisted despite numerous challenges, the most formidable
  of which was a severe economic crisis in 2001-02 that led to violent
  public protests and the resignation of several interim presidents.
  The economy has recovered strongly since bottoming out in 2002.

Armenia
  Armenia prides itself on being the first nation to formally
  adopt Christianity (early 4th century). Despite periods of autonomy,
  over the centuries Armenia came under the sway of various empires
  including the Roman, Byzantine, Arab, Persian, and Ottoman. During
  World War I in the western portion of Armenia, Ottoman Turkey
  instituted a policy of forced resettlement coupled with other harsh
  practices that resulted in an estimated 1 million Armenian deaths.
  The eastern area of Armenia was ceded by the Ottomans to Russia in
  1828; this portion declared its independence in 1918, but was
  conquered by the Soviet Red Army in 1920. Armenian leaders remain
  preoccupied by the long conflict with Muslim Azerbaijan over
  Nagorno-Karabakh, a primarily Armenian-populated region, assigned to
  Soviet Azerbaijan in the 1920s by Moscow. Armenia and Azerbaijan
  began fighting over the area in 1988; the struggle escalated after
  both countries attained independence from the Soviet Union in 1991.
  By May 1994, when a cease-fire took hold, Armenian forces held not
  only Nagorno-Karabakh but also a significant portion of Azerbaijan
  proper. The economies of both sides have been hurt by their
  inability to make substantial progress toward a peaceful resolution.
  Turkey imposed an economic blockade on Armenia and closed the common
  border because of the Armenian separatists' control of
  Nagorno-Karabakh and surrounding areas.

Aruba
  Discovered and claimed for Spain in 1499, Aruba was acquired
  by the Dutch in 1636. The island's economy has been dominated by
  three main industries. A 19th century gold rush was followed by
  prosperity brought on by the opening in 1924 of an oil refinery. The
  last decades of the 20th century saw a boom in the tourism industry.
  Aruba seceded from the Netherlands Antilles in 1986 and became a
  separate, autonomous member of the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
  Movement toward full independence was halted at Aruba's request in
  1990.

Ashmore and Cartier Islands
  These uninhabited islands came under
  Australian authority in 1931; formal administration began two years
  later. Ashmore Reef supports a rich and diverse avian and marine
  habitat; in 1983, it became a National Nature Reserve. Cartier
  Island, a former bombing range, became a marine reserve in 2000.

Atlantic Ocean
  The Atlantic Ocean is the second largest of the
  world's five oceans (after the Pacific Ocean, but larger than the
  Indian Ocean, Southern Ocean, and Arctic Ocean). The Kiel Canal
  (Germany), Oresund (Denmark-Sweden), Bosporus (Turkey), Strait of
  Gibraltar (Morocco-Spain), and the Saint Lawrence Seaway (Canada-US)
  are important strategic access waterways. The decision by the
  International Hydrographic Organization in the spring of 2000 to
  delimit a fifth world ocean, the Southern Ocean, removed the portion
  of the Atlantic Ocean south of 60 degrees south latitude.

Australia
  Aboriginal settlers arrived on the continent from
  Southeast Asia about 40,000 years before the first Europeans began
  exploration in the 17th century. No formal territorial claims were
  made until 1770, when Capt. James COOK took possession in the name
  of Great Britain. Six colonies were created in the late 18th and
  19th centuries; they federated and became the Commonwealth of
  Australia in 1901. The new country took advantage of its natural
  resources to rapidly develop agricultural and manufacturing
  industries and to make a major contribution to the British effort in
  World Wars I and II. In recent decades, Australia has transformed
  itself into an internationally competitive, advanced market economy.
  It boasted one of the OECD's fastest growing economies during the
  1990s, a performance due in large part to economic reforms adopted
  in the 1980s. Long-term concerns include climate-change issues such
  as the depletion of the ozone layer and more frequent droughts, and
  management and conservation of coastal areas, especially the Great
  Barrier Reef.

Austria
  Once the center of power for the large Austro-Hungarian
  Empire, Austria was reduced to a small republic after its defeat in
  World War I. Following annexation by Nazi Germany in 1938 and
  subsequent occupation by the victorious Allies in 1945, Austria's
  status remained unclear for a decade. A State Treaty signed in 1955
  ended the occupation, recognized Austria's independence, and forbade
  unification with Germany. A constitutional law that same year
  declared the country's "perpetual neutrality" as a condition for
  Soviet military withdrawal. The Soviet Union's collapse in 1991 and
  Austria's entry into the European Union in 1995 have altered the
  meaning of this neutrality. A prosperous, democratic country,
  Austria entered the EU Economic and Monetary Union in 1999.

Azerbaijan
  Azerbaijan - a nation with a majority-Turkic and
  majority-Muslim population - was briefly independent from 1918 to
  1920; it regained its independence after the collapse of the Soviet
  Union in 1991. Despite a 1994 cease-fire, Azerbaijan has yet to
  resolve its conflict with Armenia over the Azerbaijani
  Nagorno-Karabakh enclave (largely Armenian populated). Azerbaijan
  has lost 16% of its territory and must support some 600,000
  internally displaced persons as a result of the conflict. Corruption
  is ubiquitous, and the government has been accused of
  authoritarianism. Although the poverty rate has been reduced in
  recent years, the promise of widespread wealth from development of
  Azerbaijan's energy sector remains largely unfulfilled.

Bahamas, The
  Lucayan Indians inhabited the islands when Christopher
  COLUMBUS first set foot in the New World on San Salvador in 1492.
  British settlement of the islands began in 1647; the islands became
  a colony in 1783. Since attaining independence from the UK in 1973,
  The Bahamas have prospered through tourism and international banking
  and investment management. Because of its geography, the country is
  a major transshipment point for illegal drugs, particularly
  shipments to the US and Europe, and its territory is used for
  smuggling illegal migrants into the US.

Bahrain
  In 1783, the al-Khalifa family captured Bahrain from the
  Persians. In order to secure these holdings, it entered into a
  series of treaties with the UK during the 19th century that made
  Bahrain a British protectorate. The archipelago attained its
  independence in 1971. Bahrain's small size and central location
  among Persian Gulf countries require it to play a delicate balancing
  act in foreign affairs among its larger neighbors. Facing declining
  oil reserves, Bahrain has turned to petroleum processing and
  refining and has transformed itself into an international banking
  center. King HAMAD bin Isa al-Khalifa, after coming to power in
  1999, pushed economic and political reforms to improve relations
  with the Shia community. Shia political societies participated in
  2006 parliamentary and municipal elections. Al Wifaq, the largest
  Shia political society, won the largest number of seats in the
  elected chamber of the legislature. However, Shi'a discontent has
  resurfaced in recent years with street demonstrations and occasional
  low-level violence.

Bangladesh
  Europeans began to set up trading posts in the area of
  Bangladesh in the 16th century; eventually the British came to
  dominate the region and it became part of British India. In 1947,
  West Pakistan and East Bengal (both primarily Muslim) separated from
  India (largely Hindu) and jointly became the new country of
  Pakistan. East Bengal became East Pakistan in 1955, but the awkward
  arrangement of a two-part country with its territorial units
  separated by 1,600 km left the Bengalis marginalized and
  dissatisfied. East Pakistan seceded from its union with West
  Pakistan in 1971 and was renamed Bangladesh. A military-backed
  caretaker regime suspended planned parliamentary elections in
  January 2007 in an effort to reform the political system and root
  out corruption; the regime has pledged new democratic elections by
  the end of 2008. About a third of this extremely poor country floods
  annually during the monsoon rainy season, hampering economic
  development.

Barbados
  The island was uninhabited when first settled by the
  British in 1627. Slaves worked the sugar plantations established on
  the island until 1834 when slavery was abolished. The economy
  remained heavily dependent on sugar, rum, and molasses production
  through most of the 20th century. The gradual introduction of social
  and political reforms in the 1940s and 1950s led to complete
  independence from the UK in 1966. In the 1990s, tourism and
  manufacturing surpassed the sugar industry in economic importance.

Belarus
  After seven decades as a constituent republic of the USSR,
  Belarus attained its independence in 1991. It has retained closer
  political and economic ties to Russia than any of the other former
  Soviet republics. Belarus and Russia signed a treaty on a two-state
  union on 8 December 1999 envisioning greater political and economic
  integration. Although Belarus agreed to a framework to carry out the
  accord, serious implementation has yet to take place. Since his
  election in July 1994 as the country's first president, Alexandr
  LUKASHENKO has steadily consolidated his power through authoritarian
  means. Government restrictions on freedom of speech and the press,
  peaceful assembly, and religion continue.

Belgium
  Belgium became independent from the Netherlands in 1830; it
  was occupied by Germany during World Wars I and II. The country
  prospered in the past half century as a modern, technologically
  advanced European state and member of NATO and the EU. Tensions
  between the Dutch-speaking Flemings of the north and the
  French-speaking Walloons of the south have led in recent years to
  constitutional amendments granting these regions formal recognition
  and autonomy.

Belize
  Belize was the site of several Mayan city states until their
  decline at the end of the first millennium A.D. The British and
  Spanish disputed the region in the 17th and 18th centuries; it
  formally became the colony of British Honduras in 1854. Territorial
  disputes between the UK and Guatemala delayed the independence of
  Belize until 1981. Guatemala refused to recognize the new nation
  until 1992. Tourism has become the mainstay of the economy. Current
  concerns include an unsustainable foreign debt, high unemployment,
  growing involvement in the South American drug trade, growing urban
  crime, and increasing incidences of HIV/AIDS.

Benin
  Present day Benin was the site of Dahomey, a prominent West
  African kingdom that rose in the 15th century. The territory became
  a French Colony in 1872 and achieved independence on 1 August 1960,
  as the Republic of Benin. A succession of military governments ended
  in 1972 with the rise to power of Mathieu KEREKOU and the
  establishment of a government based on Marxist-Leninist principles.
  A move to representative government began in 1989. Two years later,
  free elections ushered in former Prime Minister Nicephore SOGLO as
  president, marking the first successful transfer of power in Africa
  from a dictatorship to a democracy. KEREKOU was returned to power by
  elections held in 1996 and 2001, though some irregularities were
  alleged. KEREKOU stepped down at the end of his second term in 2006
  and was succeeded by Thomas YAYI Boni, a political outsider and
  independent. YAYI has begun a high profile fight against corruption
  and has strongly promoted accelerating Benin's economic growth.

Bermuda
  Bermuda was first settled in 1609 by shipwrecked English
  colonists headed for Virginia. Tourism to the island to escape North
  American winters first developed in Victorian times. Tourism
  continues to be important to the island's economy, although
  international business has overtaken it in recent years. Bermuda has
  developed into a highly successful offshore financial center.
  Although a referendum on independence from the UK was soundly
  defeated in 1995, the present government has reopened debate on the
  issue.

Bhutan
  In 1865, Britain and Bhutan signed the Treaty of Sinchulu,
  under which Bhutan would receive an annual subsidy in exchange for
  ceding some border land to British India. Under British influence, a
  monarchy was set up in 1907; three years later, a treaty was signed
  whereby the British agreed not to interfere in Bhutanese internal
  affairs and Bhutan allowed Britain to direct its foreign affairs.
  This role was assumed by independent India after 1947. Two years
  later, a formal Indo-Bhutanese accord returned the areas of Bhutan
  annexed by the British, formalized the annual subsidies the country
  received, and defined India's responsibilities in defense and
  foreign relations. A refugee issue of over 100,000 Bhutanese in
  Nepal remains unresolved; 90% of the refugees are housed in seven
  United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR)
  camps. In March 2005, King Jigme Singye WANGCHUCK unveiled the
  government's draft constitution - which would introduce major
  democratic reforms - and pledged to hold a national referendum for
  its approval. In December 2006, the King abdicated the throne to his
  son, Jigme Khesar Namgyel WANGCHUCK, in order to give him experience
  as head of state before the democratic transition. In early 2007,
  India and Bhutan renegotiated their treaty to allow Bhutan greater
  autonomy in conducting its foreign policy, although Thimphu
  continues to coordinate policy decisions in this area with New
  Delhi. In July 2007, seven ministers of Bhutan's ten-member cabinet
  resigned to join the political process, and the cabinet acted as a
  caretaker regime until democratic elections for seats to the
  country's first parliament were completed in March 2008. The king
  ratified the country's first constitution in July 2008.

Bolivia
  Bolivia, named after independence fighter Simon BOLIVAR,
  broke away from Spanish rule in 1825; much of its subsequent history
  has consisted of a series of nearly 200 coups and countercoups.
  Democratic civilian rule was established in 1982, but leaders have
  faced difficult problems of deep-seated poverty, social unrest, and
  illegal drug production. In December 2005, Bolivians elected
  Movement Toward Socialism leader Evo MORALES president - by the
  widest margin of any leader since the restoration of civilian rule
  in 1982 - after he ran on a promise to change the country's
  traditional political class and empower the nation's poor majority.
  However, since taking office, his controversial strategies have
  exacerbated racial and economic tensions between the Amerindian
  populations of the Andean west and the non-indigenous communities of
  the eastern lowlands.

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  Bosnia and Herzegovina's declaration of
  sovereignty in October 1991 was followed by a declaration of
  independence from the former Yugoslavia on 3 March 1992 after a
  referendum boycotted by ethnic Serbs. The Bosnian Serbs - supported
  by neighboring Serbia and Montenegro - responded with armed
  resistance aimed at partitioning the republic along ethnic lines and
  joining Serb-held areas to form a "Greater Serbia." In March 1994,
  Bosniaks and Croats reduced the number of warring factions from
  three to two by signing an agreement creating a joint Bosniak/Croat
  Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. On 21 November 1995, in
  Dayton, Ohio, the warring parties initialed a peace agreement that
  brought to a halt three years of interethnic civil strife (the final
  agreement was signed in Paris on 14 December 1995). The Dayton Peace
  Accords retained Bosnia and Herzegovina's international boundaries
  and created a joint multi-ethnic and democratic government charged
  with conducting foreign, diplomatic, and fiscal policy. Also
  recognized was a second tier of government comprised of two entities
  roughly equal in size: the Bosniak/Croat Federation of Bosnia and
  Herzegovina and the Bosnian Serb-led Republika Srpska (RS). The
  Federation and RS governments were charged with overseeing most
  government functions. The Office of the High Representative (OHR)
  was established to oversee the implementation of the civilian
  aspects of the agreement. In 1995-96, a NATO-led international
  peacekeeping force (IFOR) of 60,000 troops served in Bosnia to
  implement and monitor the military aspects of the agreement. IFOR
  was succeeded by a smaller, NATO-led Stabilization Force (SFOR)
  whose mission was to deter renewed hostilities. European Union
  peacekeeping troops (EUFOR) replaced SFOR in December 2004; their
  mission is to maintain peace and stability throughout the country.
  EUFOR's mission changed from peacekeeping to civil policing in
  October 2007, with its presence reduced from nearly 7,000 to 2,500
  troops.

Botswana
  Formerly the British protectorate of Bechuanaland, Botswana
  adopted its new name upon independence in 1966. Four decades of
  uninterrupted civilian leadership, progressive social policies, and
  significant capital investment have created one of the most dynamic
  economies in Africa. Mineral extraction, principally diamond mining,
  dominates economic activity, though tourism is a growing sector due
  to the country's conservation practices and extensive nature
  preserves. Botswana has one of the world's highest known rates of
  HIV/AIDS infection, but also one of Africa's most progressive and
  comprehensive programs for dealing with the disease.

Bouvet Island
  This uninhabited volcanic island is almost entirely
  covered by glaciers and is difficult to approach. It was discovered
  in 1739 by a French naval officer after whom the island was named.
  No claim was made until 1825, when the British flag was raised. In
  1928, the UK waived its claim in favor of Norway, which had occupied
  the island the previous year. In 1971, Norway designated Bouvet
  Island and the adjacent territorial waters a nature reserve. Since
  1977, it has run an automated meteorological station on the island.

Brazil
  Following three centuries under the rule of Portugal, Brazil
  became an independent nation in 1822 and a republic in 1889. By far
  the largest and most populous country in South America, Brazil
  overcame more than half a century of military intervention in the
  governance of the country when in 1985 the military regime
  peacefully ceded power to civilian rulers. Brazil continues to
  pursue industrial and agricultural growth and development of its
  interior. Exploiting vast natural resources and a large labor pool,
  it is today South America's leading economic power and a regional
  leader. Highly unequal income distribution and crime remain pressing
  problems.

British Indian Ocean Territory
  Formerly administered as part of the
  British Crown Colony of Mauritius, the British Indian Ocean
  Territory (BIOT) was established as an overseas territory of the UK
  in 1965. A number of the islands of the territory were later
  transferred to the Seychelles when it attained independence in 1976.
  Subsequently, BIOT has consisted only of the six main island groups
  comprising the Chagos Archipelago. The largest and most southerly of
  the islands, Diego Garcia, contains a joint UK-US naval support
  facility. All of the remaining islands are uninhabited. Between 1967
  and 1973, former agricultural workers, earlier residents in the
  islands, were relocated primarily to Mauritius, but also to the
  Seychelles. Negotiations between 1971 and 1982 resulted in the
  establishment of a trust fund by the British Government as
  compensation for the displaced islanders, known as Chagossians.
  Beginning in 1998, the islanders pursued a series of lawsuits
  against the British Government seeking further compensation and the
  right to return to the territory. In 2006 and 2007, British court
  rulings invalidated the immigration policies contained in the 2004
  BIOT Constitution Order that had excluded the islanders from the
  archipelago, but upheld the special military status of Diego Garcia.
  In 2008, the House of Lords, as the final court of appeal in the UK,
  ruled in favor of the British Goverment by overturning the lower
  court rulings and finding no right of return on the part of the
  Chagossians.

British Virgin Islands
  First inhabited by Arawak and later by Carib
  Indians, the Virgin Islands were settled by the Dutch in 1648 and
  then annexed by the English in 1672. The islands were part of the
  British colony of the Leeward Islands from 1872-1960; they were
  granted autonomy in 1967. The economy is closely tied to the larger
  and more populous US Virgin Islands to the west; the US dollar is
  the legal currency.

Brunei
  The Sultanate of Brunei's influence peaked between the 15th
  and 17th centuries when its control extended over coastal areas of
  northwest Borneo and the southern Philippines. Brunei subsequently
  entered a period of decline brought on by internal strife over royal
  succession, colonial expansion of European powers, and piracy. In
  1888, Brunei became a British protectorate; independence was
  achieved in 1984. The same family has ruled Brunei for over six
  centuries. Brunei benefits from extensive petroleum and natural gas
  fields, the source of one of the highest per capita GDPs in Asia.

Bulgaria
  The Bulgars, a Central Asian Turkic tribe, merged with the
  local Slavic inhabitants in the late 7th century to form the first
  Bulgarian state. In succeeding centuries, Bulgaria struggled with
  the Byzantine Empire to assert its place in the Balkans, but by the
  end of the 14th century the country was overrun by the Ottoman
  Turks. Northern Bulgaria attained autonomy in 1878 and all of
  Bulgaria became independent from the Ottoman Empire in 1908. Having
  fought on the losing side in both World Wars, Bulgaria fell within
  the Soviet sphere of influence and became a People's Republic in
  1946. Communist domination ended in 1990, when Bulgaria held its
  first multiparty election since World War II and began the
  contentious process of moving toward political democracy and a
  market economy while combating inflation, unemployment, corruption,
  and crime. The country joined NATO in 2004 and the EU in 2007.

Burkina Faso
  Burkina Faso (formerly Upper Volta) achieved
  independence from France in 1960. Repeated military coups during the
  1970s and 1980s were followed by multiparty elections in the early
  1990s. Current President Blaise COMPAORE came to power in a 1987
  military coup and has won every election since then. Burkina Faso's
  high population density and limited natural resources result in poor
  economic prospects for the majority of its citizens. Recent unrest
  in Cote d'Ivoire and northern Ghana has hindered the ability of
  several hundred thousand seasonal Burkinabe farm workers to find
  employment in neighboring countries.

Burma
  Britain conquered Burma over a period of 62 years (1824-1886)
  and incorporated it into its Indian Empire. Burma was administered
  as a province of India until 1937 when it became a separate,
  self-governing colony; independence from the Commonwealth was
  attained in 1948. Gen. NE WIN dominated the government from 1962 to
  1988, first as military ruler, then as self-appointed president, and
  later as political kingpin. Despite multiparty legislative elections
  in 1990 that resulted in the main opposition party - the National
  League for Democracy (NLD) - winning a landslide victory, the ruling
  junta refused to hand over power. NLD leader and Nobel Peace Prize
  recipient AUNG SAN SUU KYI, who was under house arrest from 1989 to
  1995 and 2000 to 2002, was imprisoned in May 2003 and subsequently
  transferred to house arrest. After Burma's ruling junta in August
  2007 unexpectedly increased fuel prices, tens of thousands of
  Burmese marched in protest, led by prodemocracy activists and
  Buddhist monks. In late September 2007, the government brutally
  suppressed the protests, killing at least 13 people and arresting
  thousands for participating in the demonstrations. Since then, the
  regime has continued to raid homes and monasteries and arrest
  persons suspected of participating in the pro-democracy protests.
  The junta appointed Labor Minister AUNG KYI in October 2007 as
  liaison to AUNG SAN SUU KYI, who remains under house arrest and
  virtually incommunicado with her party and supporters.

Burundi
  Burundi's first democratically elected president was
  assassinated in October 1993 after only 100 days in office,
  triggering widespread ethnic violence between Hutu and Tutsi
  factions. More than 200,000 Burundians perished during the conflict
  that spanned almost a dozen years. Hundreds of thousands of
  Burundians were internally displaced or became refugees in
  neighboring countries. An internationally brokered power-sharing
  agreement between the Tutsi-dominated government and the Hutu rebels
  in 2003 paved the way for a transition process that led to an
  integrated defense force, established a new constitution in 2005,
  and elected a majority Hutu government in 2005. The new government,
  led by President Pierre NKURUNZIZA, signed a South African brokered
  ceasefire with the country's last rebel group in September of 2006
  but still faces many challenges.

Cambodia
  Most Cambodians consider themselves to be Khmers,
  descendants of the Angkor Empire that extended over much of
  Southeast Asia and reached its zenith between the 10th and 13th
  centuries. Attacks by the Thai and Cham (from present-day Vietnam)
  weakened the empire, ushering in a long period of decline. The king
  placed the country under French protection in 1863 and it became
  part of French Indochina in 1887. Following Japanese occupation in
  World War II, Cambodia gained full independence from France in 1953.
  In April 1975, after a five-year struggle, Communist Khmer Rouge
  forces captured Phnom Penh and evacuated all cities and towns. At
  least 1.5 million Cambodians died from execution, forced hardships,
  or starvation during the Khmer Rouge regime under POL POT. A
  December 1978 Vietnamese invasion drove the Khmer Rouge into the
  countryside, began a 10-year Vietnamese occupation, and touched off
  almost 13 years of civil war. The 1991 Paris Peace Accords mandated
  democratic elections and a ceasefire, which was not fully respected
  by the Khmer Rouge. UN-sponsored elections in 1993 helped restore
  some semblance of normalcy under a coalition government. Factional
  fighting in 1997 ended the first coalition government, but a second
  round of national elections in 1998 led to the formation of another
  coalition government and renewed political stability. The remaining
  elements of the Khmer Rouge surrendered in early 1999. Some of the
  remaining Khmer Rouge leaders are awaiting trial by a UN-sponsored
  tribunal for crimes against humanity. Elections in July 2003 were
  relatively peaceful, but it took one year of negotiations between
  contending political parties before a coalition government was
  formed. In October 2004, King SIHANOUK abdicated the throne due to
  illness and his son, Prince Norodom SIHAMONI, was selected to
  succeed him. Local elections were held in Cambodia in April 2007,
  and there was little in the way of pre-election violence that
  preceded prior elections. National elections are scheduled for July
  2008.

Cameroon
  The former French Cameroon and part of British Cameroon
  merged in 1961 to form the present country. Cameroon has generally
  enjoyed stability, which has permitted the development of
  agriculture, roads, and railways, as well as a petroleum industry.
  Despite a slow movement toward democratic reform, political power
  remains firmly in the hands of President Paul BIYA.

Canada
  A land of vast distances and rich natural resources, Canada
  became a self-governing dominion in 1867 while retaining ties to the
  British crown. Economically and technologically the nation has
  developed in parallel with the US, its neighbor to the south across
  an unfortified border. Canada faces the political challenges of
  meeting public demands for quality improvements in health care and
  education services, as well as responding to separatist concerns in
  predominantly francophone Quebec. Canada also aims to develop its
  diverse energy resources while maintaining its commitment to the
  environment.

Cape Verde
  The uninhabited islands were discovered and colonized by
  the Portuguese in the 15th century; Cape Verde subsequently became a
  trading center for African slaves and later an important coaling and
  resupply stop for whaling and transatlantic shipping. Following
  independence in 1975, and a tentative interest in unification with
  Guinea-Bissau, a one-party system was established and maintained
  until multi-party elections were held in 1990. Cape Verde continues
  to exhibit one of Africa's most stable democratic governments.
  Repeated droughts during the second half of the 20th century caused
  significant hardship and prompted heavy emigration. As a result,
  Cape Verde's expatriate population is greater than its domestic one.
  Most Cape Verdeans have both African and Portuguese antecedents.

Cayman Islands
  The Cayman Islands were colonized from Jamaica by the
  British during the 18th and 19th centuries, and were administered by
  Jamaica after 1863. In 1959, the islands became a territory within
  the Federation of the West Indies, but when the Federation dissolved
  in 1962, the Cayman Islands chose to remain a British dependency.

Central African Republic
  The former French colony of Ubangi-Shari
  became the Central African Republic upon independence in 1960. After
  three tumultuous decades of misrule - mostly by military governments
  - civilian rule was established in 1993 and lasted for one decade.
  President Ange-Felix PATASSE's civilian government was plagued by
  unrest, and in March 2003 he was deposed in a military coup led by
  General Francois BOZIZE, who established a transitional government.
  Though the government has the tacit support of civil society groups
  and the main parties, a wide field of candidates contested the
  municipal, legislative, and presidential elections held in March and
  May of 2005 in which General BOZIZE was affirmed as president. The
  government still does not fully control the countryside, where
  pockets of lawlessness persist. Unrest in neighboring nations, Chad,
  Sudan, and the DRC, continues to affect stability in the Central
  African Republic as well.

Chad
  Chad, part of France's African holdings until 1960, endured
  three decades of civil warfare as well as invasions by Libya before
  a semblance of peace was finally restored in 1990. The government
  eventually drafted a democratic constitution, and held flawed
  presidential elections in 1996 and 2001. In 1998, a rebellion broke
  out in northern Chad, which has sporadically flared up despite
  several peace agreements between the government and the rebels. In
  2005, new rebel groups emerged in western Sudan and made probing
  attacks into eastern Chad, despite signing peace agreements in
  December 2006 and October 2007. Power remains in the hands of an
  ethnic minority. In June 2005, President Idriss DEBY held a
  referendum successfully removing constitutional term limits and won
  another controversial election in 2006. Sporadic rebel campaigns
  continued throughout 2006 and 2007, and the capital experienced a
  significant rebel threat in early 2008.

Chile
  Prior to the coming of the Spanish in the 16th century,
  northern Chile was under Inca rule while Araucanian Indians (also
  known as Mapuches) inhabited central and southern Chile. Although
  Chile declared its independence in 1810, decisive victory over the
  Spanish was not achieved until 1818. In the War of the Pacific
  (1879-83), Chile defeated Peru and Bolivia and won its present
  northern regions. It was not until the 1880s that the Araucanian
  Indians were completely subjugated. A three-year-old Marxist
  government of Salvador ALLENDE was overthrown in 1973 by a military
  coup led by Augusto PINOCHET, who ruled until a freely elected
  president was installed in 1990. Sound economic policies, maintained
  consistently since the 1980s, have contributed to steady growth,
  reduced poverty rates by over half, and have helped secure the
  country's commitment to democratic and representative government.
  Chile has increasingly assumed regional and international leadership
  roles befitting its status as a stable, democratic nation.

China
  For centuries China stood as a leading civilization, outpacing
  the rest of the world in the arts and sciences, but in the 19th and
  early 20th centuries, the country was beset by civil unrest, major
  famines, military defeats, and foreign occupation. After World War
  II, the Communists under MAO Zedong established an autocratic
  socialist system that, while ensuring China's sovereignty, imposed
  strict controls over everyday life and cost the lives of tens of
  millions of people. After 1978, his successor DENG Xiaoping and
  other leaders focused on market-oriented economic development and by
  2000 output had quadrupled. For much of the population, living
  standards have improved dramatically and the room for personal
  choice has expanded, yet political controls remain tight.

Christmas Island
  Named in 1643 for the day of its discovery, the
  island was annexed and settlement began by the UK in 1888. Phosphate
  mining began in the 1890s. The UK transferred sovereignty to
  Australia in 1958. Almost two-thirds of the island has been declared
  a national park.

Clipperton Island
  This isolated island was named for John
  CLIPPERTON, a pirate who made it his hideout early in the 18th
  century. Annexed by France in 1855, it was seized by Mexico in 1897.
  Arbitration eventually awarded the island to France, which took
  possession in 1935.

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  There are 27 coral islands in the group.
  Captain William KEELING discovered the islands in 1609, but they
  remained uninhabited until the 19th century. From the 1820s to 1978,
  members of the CLUNIE-ROSS family controlled the islands and the
  copra produced from local coconuts. Annexed by the UK in 1857, the
  Cocos Islands were transferred to the Australian Government in 1955.
  The population on the two inhabited islands generally is split
  between the ethnic Europeans on West Island and the ethnic Malays on
  Home Island.

Colombia
  Colombia was one of the three countries that emerged from
  the collapse of Gran Colombia in 1830 (the others are Ecuador and
  Venezuela). A 40-year conflict between government forces and
  anti-government insurgent groups and illegal paramilitary groups -
  both heavily funded by the drug trade - escalated during the 1990s.
  The insurgents lack the military or popular support necessary to
  overthrow the government, and violence has been decreasing since
  about 2002, but insurgents continue attacks against civilians and
  large swaths of the countryside are under guerrilla influence. More
  than 32,000 former paramilitaries had demobilized by the end of 2006
  and the United Self Defense Forces of Colombia (AUC) as a formal
  organization had ceased to function. Still, some renegades continued
  to engage in criminal activities. The Colombian Government has
  stepped up efforts to reassert government control throughout the
  country, and now has a presence in every one of its administrative
  departments. However, neighboring countries worry about the violence
  spilling over their borders.

Comoros
  Comoros has endured more than 20 coups or attempted coups
  since gaining independence from France in 1975. In 1997, the islands
  of Anjouan and Moheli declared independence from Comoros. In 1999,
  military chief Col. AZALI seized power in a bloodless coup, and
  helped negotiate the 2000 Fomboni Accords power-sharing agreement in
  which the federal presidency rotates among the three islands, and
  each island maintains its own local government. AZALI won the 2002
  Presidential election, and each island in the archipelago elected
  its own president. AZALI stepped down in 2006 and President SAMBI
  took office. Since 2006, Anjouan's President Mohamed BACAR has
  refused to work effectively with the Union presidency. In 2007,
  BACAR effected Anjouan's de-facto secession from the Union, refusing
  to step down in favor of fresh Anjouanais elections when Comoros'
  other islands held legitimate elections in July. The African Union
  (AU) initially attempted to resolve the political crisis by applying
  sanctions and a naval blockade on Anjouan, but in March 2008, AU and
  Comoran soldiers seized the island. The move was generally welcomed
  by the island's inhabitants.

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  Established as a Belgian colony in
  1908, the Republic of the Congo gained its independence in 1960, but
  its early years were marred by political and social instability.
  Col. Joseph MOBUTU seized power and declared himself president in a
  November 1965 coup. He subsequently changed his name - to MOBUTU
  Sese Seko - as well as that of the country - to Zaire. MOBUTU
  retained his position for 32 years through several sham elections,
  as well as through the use of brutal force. Ethnic strife and civil
  war, touched off by a massive inflow of refugees in 1994 from
  fighting in Rwanda and Burundi, led in May 1997 to the toppling of
  the MOBUTU regime by a rebellion backed by Rwanda and Uganda and
  fronted by Laurent KABILA. He renamed the country the Democratic
  Republic of the Congo (DRC), but in August 1998 his regime was
  itself challenged by a second insurrection again backed by Rwanda
  and Uganda. Troops from Angola, Chad, Namibia, Sudan, and Zimbabwe
  intervened to support KABILA's regime. A cease-fire was signed in
  July 1999 by the DRC, Congolese armed rebel groups, Angola, Namibia,
  Rwanda, Uganda, and Zimbabwe but sporadic fighting continued.
  Laurent KABILA was assassinated in January 2001 and his son, Joseph
  KABILA, was named head of state. In October 2002, the new president
  was successful in negotiating the withdrawal of Rwandan forces
  occupying eastern Congo; two months later, the Pretoria Accord was
  signed by all remaining warring parties to end the fighting and
  establish a government of national unity. A transitional government
  was set up in July 2003. Joseph KABILA as president and four vice
  presidents represented the former government, former rebel groups,
  the political opposition, and civil society. The transitional
  government held a successful constitutional referendum in December
  2005 and elections for the presidency, National Assembly, and
  provincial legislatures in 2006. KABILA was inaugurated president in
  December 2006. The National Assembly was installed in September
  2006. Its president, Vital KAMERHE, was chosen in December.
  Provincial assemblies were constituted in early 2007, and elected
  governors and national senators in January 2007.

Congo, Republic of the
  Upon independence in 1960, the former French
  region of Middle Congo became the Republic of the Congo. A quarter
  century of experimentation with Marxism was abandoned in 1990 and a
  democratically elected government took office in 1992. A brief civil
  war in 1997 restored former Marxist President Denis SASSOU-NGUESSO,
  and ushered in a period of ethnic and political unrest.
  Southern-based rebel groups agreed to a final peace accord in March
  2003, but the calm is tenuous and refugees continue to present a
  humanitarian crisis. The Republic of Congo was once one of Africa's
  largest petroleum producers, but with declining production it will
  need new offshore oil finds to sustain its oil earnings over the
  long term.

Cook Islands
  Named after Captain COOK, who sighted them in 1770, the
  islands became a British protectorate in 1888. By 1900,
  administrative control was transferred to New Zealand; in 1965,
  residents chose self-government in free association with New
  Zealand. The emigration of skilled workers to New Zealand and
  government deficits are continuing problems.

Coral Sea Islands
  Scattered over more than three-quarters of a
  million square kilometers of ocean, the Coral Sea Islands were
  declared a territory of Australia in 1969. They are uninhabited
  except for a small meteorological staff on the Willis Islets.
  Automated weather stations, beacons, and a lighthouse occupy many
  other islands and reefs.

Costa Rica
  Although explored by the Spanish early in the 16th
  century, initial attempts at colonizing Costa Rica proved
  unsuccessful due to a combination of factors, including: disease
  from mosquito-infested swamps, brutal heat, resistance by natives,
  and pirate raids. It was not until 1563 that a permanent settlement
  of Cartago was established in the cooler, fertile central highlands.
  The area remained a colony for some two and a half centuries. In
  1821, Costa Rica became one of several Central American provinces
  that jointly declared their independence from Spain. Two years later
  it joined the United Provinces of Central America, but this
  federation disintegrated in 1838, at which time Costa Rica
  proclaimed its sovereignty and independence. Since the late 19th
  century, only two brief periods of violence have marred the
  country's democratic development. Although it still maintains a
  large agricultural sector, Costa Rica has expanded its economy to
  include strong technology and tourism industries. The standard of
  living is relatively high. Land ownership is widespread.

Cote d'Ivoire
  Close ties to France since independence in 1960, the
  development of cocoa production for export, and foreign investment
  made Cote d'Ivoire one of the most prosperous of the West African
  states, but did not protect it from political turmoil. In December
  1999, a military coup - the first ever in Cote d'Ivoire's history -
  overthrew the government. Junta leader Robert GUEI blatantly rigged
  elections held in late 2000 and declared himself the winner. Popular
  protest forced him to step aside and brought Laurent GBAGBO into
  power. Ivorian dissidents and disaffected members of the military
  launched a failed coup attempt in September 2002. Rebel forces
  claimed the northern half of the country, and in January 2003 were
  granted ministerial positions in a unity government under the
  auspices of the Linas-Marcoussis Peace Accord. President GBAGBO and
  rebel forces resumed implementation of the peace accord in December
  2003 after a three-month stalemate, but issues that sparked the
  civil war, such as land reform and grounds for citizenship, remained
  unresolved. In March 2007 President GBAGBO and former New Force
  rebel leader Guillaume SORO signed the Ouagadougou Political
  Agreement. As a result of the agreement, SORO joined GBAGBO's
  government as Prime Minister and the two agreed to reunite the
  country by dismantling the zone of confidence separating North from
  South, integrate rebel forces into the national armed forces, and
  hold elections. Several thousand French and UN troops remain in Cote
  d'Ivoire to help the parties implement their commitments and to
  support the peace process.

Croatia
  The lands that today comprise Croatia were part of the
  Austro-Hungarian Empire until the close of World War I. In 1918, the
  Croats, Serbs, and Slovenes formed a kingdom known after 1929 as
  Yugoslavia. Following World War II, Yugoslavia became a federal
  independent Communist state under the strong hand of Marshal TITO.
  Although Croatia declared its independence from Yugoslavia in 1991,
  it took four years of sporadic, but often bitter, fighting before
  occupying Serb armies were mostly cleared from Croatian lands. Under
  UN supervision, the last Serb-held enclave in eastern Slavonia was
  returned to Croatia in 1998.

Cuba
  The native Amerindian population of Cuba began to decline after
  the European discovery of the island by Christopher COLUMBUS in 1492
  and following its development as a Spanish colony during the next
  several centuries. Large numbers of African slaves were imported to
  work the coffee and sugar plantations, and Havana became the
  launching point for the annual treasure fleets bound for Spain from
  Mexico and Peru. Spanish rule, marked initially by neglect, became
  increasingly repressive, provoking an independence movement and
  occasional rebellions that were harshly suppressed. It was US
  intervention during the Spanish-American War in 1898 that finally
  overthrew Spanish rule. The subsequent Treaty of Paris established
  Cuban independence, which was granted in 1902 after a three-year
  transition period. Fidel CASTRO led a rebel army to victory in 1959;
  his iron rule held the subsequent regime together for nearly five
  decades. He stepped down as president in February 2008 in favor of
  his younger brother Raul CASTRO. Cuba's Communist revolution, with
  Soviet support, was exported throughout Latin America and Africa
  during the 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s. The country is now slowly
  recovering from a severe economic downturn in 1990, following the
  withdrawal of former Soviet subsidies, worth $4 billion to $6
  billion annually. Cuba portrays its difficulties as the result of
  the US embargo in place since 1961. Illicit migration to the US -
  using homemade rafts, alien smugglers, air flights, or via the
  southwest border - is a continuing problem. The US Coast Guard
  intercepted 2,864 individuals attempting to cross the Straits of
  Florida in fiscal year 2006.

Cyprus
  A former British colony, Cyprus became independent in 1960
  following years of resistance to British rule. Tensions between the
  Greek Cypriot majority and Turkish Cypriot minority came to a head
  in December 1963, when violence broke out in the capital of Nicosia.
  Despite the deployment of UN peacekeepers in 1964, sporadic
  intercommunal violence continued forcing most Turkish Cypriots into
  enclaves throughout the island. In 1974, a Greek
  Government-sponsored attempt to seize control of Cyprus was met by
  military intervention from Turkey, which soon controlled more than a
  third of the island. In 1983, the Turkish-held area declared itself
  the "Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus" (TRNC), but it is
  recognized only by Turkey. The latest two-year round of UN-brokered
  talks - between the leaders of the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot
  communities to reach an agreement to reunite the divided island -
  ended when the Greek Cypriots rejected the UN settlement plan in an
  April 2004 referendum. The entire island entered the EU on 1 May
  2004, although the EU acquis - the body of common rights and
  obligations - applies only to the areas under direct government
  control, and is suspended in the areas administered by Turkish
  Cypriots. However, individual Turkish Cypriots able to document
  their eligibility for Republic of Cyprus citizenship legally enjoy
  the same rights accorded to other citizens of European Union states.
  The election of a new Cypriot president in 2008 served as the
  impetus for the UN to encourage both the Turkish and Cypriot
  Governments to reopen unification negotiations.

Czech Republic
  Following the First World War, the closely related
  Czechs and Slovaks of the former Austro-Hungarian Empire merged to
  form Czechoslovakia. During the interwar years, the new country's
  leaders were frequently preoccupied with meeting the demands of
  other ethnic minorities within the republic, most notably the
  Sudeten Germans and the Ruthenians (Ukrainians). After World War II,
  a truncated Czechoslovakia fell within the Soviet sphere of
  influence. In 1968, an invasion by Warsaw Pact troops ended the
  efforts of the country's leaders to liberalize Communist party rule
  and create "socialism with a human face." Anti-Soviet demonstrations
  the following year ushered in a period of harsh repression. With the
  collapse of Soviet authority in 1989, Czechoslovakia regained its
  freedom through a peaceful "Velvet Revolution." On 1 January 1993,
  the country underwent a "velvet divorce" into its two national
  components, the Czech Republic and Slovakia. The Czech Republic
  joined NATO in 1999 and the European Union in 2004.

Denmark
  Once the seat of Viking raiders and later a major north
  European power, Denmark has evolved into a modern, prosperous nation
  that is participating in the general political and economic
  integration of Europe. It joined NATO in 1949 and the EEC (now the
  EU) in 1973. However, the country has opted out of certain elements
  of the European Union's Maastricht Treaty, including the European
  Economic and Monetary Union (EMU), European defense cooperation, and
  issues concerning certain justice and home affairs.

Dhekelia
  By terms of the 1960 Treaty of Establishment that created
  the independent Republic of Cyprus, the UK retained full sovereignty
  and jurisdiction over two areas of almost 254 square kilometers -
  Akrotiri and Dhekelia. The larger of these is the Dhekelia Sovereign
  Base Area, which is also referred to as the Eastern Sovereign Base
  Area.

Djibouti
  The French Territory of the Afars and the Issas became
  Djibouti in 1977. Hassan Gouled APTIDON installed an authoritarian
  one-party state and proceeded to serve as president until 1999.
  Unrest among the Afars minority during the 1990s led to a civil war
  that ended in 2001 following the conclusion of a peace accord
  between Afar rebels and the Issa-dominated government. In 1999,
  Djibouti's first multi-party presidential elections resulted in the
  election of Ismail Omar GUELLEH; he was re-elected to a second and
  final term in 2005. Djibouti occupies a strategic geographic
  location at the mouth of the Red Sea and serves as an important
  transshipment location for goods entering and leaving the east
  African highlands. The present leadership favors close ties to
  France, which maintains a significant military presence in the
  country, but also has strong ties with the US. Djibouti hosts the
  only US military base in sub-Saharan Africa and is a front-line
  state in the global war on terrorism.

Dominica
  Dominica was the last of the Caribbean islands to be
  colonized by Europeans due chiefly to the fierce resistance of the
  native Caribs. France ceded possession to Great Britain in 1763,
  which made the island a colony in 1805. In 1980, two years after
  independence, Dominica's fortunes improved when a corrupt and
  tyrannical administration was replaced by that of Mary Eugenia
  CHARLES, the first female prime minister in the Caribbean, who
  remained in office for 15 years. Some 3,000 Carib Indians still
  living on Dominica are the only pre-Columbian population remaining
  in the eastern Caribbean.

Dominican Republic
  Explored and claimed by Christopher COLUMBUS on
  his first voyage in 1492, the island of Hispaniola became a
  springboard for Spanish conquest of the Caribbean and the American
  mainland. In 1697, Spain recognized French dominion over the western
  third of the island, which in 1804 became Haiti. The remainder of
  the island, by then known as Santo Domingo, sought to gain its own
  independence in 1821, but was conquered and ruled by the Haitians
  for 22 years; it finally attained independence as the Dominican
  Republic in 1844. In 1861, the Dominicans voluntarily returned to
  the Spanish Empire, but two years later they launched a war that
  restored independence in 1865. A legacy of unsettled, mostly
  non-representative rule followed, capped by the dictatorship of
  Rafael Leonidas TRUJILLO from 1930-61. Juan BOSCH was elected
  president in 1962, but was deposed in a military coup in 1963. In
  1965, the United States led an intervention in the midst of a civil
  war sparked by an uprising to restore BOSCH. In 1966, Joaquin
  BALAGUER defeated BOSCH in an election to become president. BALAGUER
  maintained a tight grip on power for most of the next 30 years when
  international reaction to flawed elections forced him to curtail his
  term in 1996. Since then, regular competitive elections have been
  held in which opposition candidates have won the presidency. Former
  President (1996-2000) Leonel FERNANDEZ Reyna won election to a
  second term in 2004 following a constitutional amendment allowing
  presidents to serve more than one term.

Ecuador
  What is now Ecuador formed part of the northern Inca Empire
  until the Spanish conquest in 1533. Quito became a seat of Spanish
  colonial government in 1563 and part of the Viceroyalty of New
  Granada in 1717. The territories of the Viceroyalty - New Granada
  (Colombia), Venezuela, and Quito - gained their independence between
  1819 and 1822 and formed a federation known as Gran Colombia. When
  Quito withdrew in 1830, the traditional name was changed in favor of
  the "Republic of the Equator." Between 1904 and 1942, Ecuador lost
  territories in a series of conflicts with its neighbors. A border
  war with Peru that flared in 1995 was resolved in 1999. Although
  Ecuador marked 25 years of civilian governance in 2004, the period
  has been marred by political instability. Protests in Quito have
  contributed to the mid-term ouster of Ecuador's last three
  democratically elected Presidents. In 2007, a Constituent Assembly
  was elected to draft a new constitution; Ecuador's twentieth since
  gaining independence.

Egypt
  The regularity and richness of the annual Nile River flood,
  coupled with semi-isolation provided by deserts to the east and
  west, allowed for the development of one of the world's great
  civilizations. A unified kingdom arose circa 3200 B.C., and a series
  of dynasties ruled in Egypt for the next three millennia. The last
  native dynasty fell to the Persians in 341 B.C., who in turn were
  replaced by the Greeks, Romans, and Byzantines. It was the Arabs who
  introduced Islam and the Arabic language in the 7th century and who
  ruled for the next six centuries. A local military caste, the
  Mamluks took control about 1250 and continued to govern after the
  conquest of Egypt by the Ottoman Turks in 1517. Following the
  completion of the Suez Canal in 1869, Egypt became an important
  world transportation hub, but also fell heavily into debt.
  Ostensibly to protect its investments, Britain seized control of
  Egypt's government in 1882, but nominal allegiance to the Ottoman
  Empire continued until 1914. Partially independent from the UK in
  1922, Egypt acquired full sovereignty with the overthrow of the
  British-backed monarchy in 1952. The completion of the Aswan High
  Dam in 1971 and the resultant Lake Nasser have altered the
  time-honored place of the Nile River in the agriculture and ecology
  of Egypt. A rapidly growing population (the largest in the Arab
  world), limited arable land, and dependence on the Nile all continue
  to overtax resources and stress society. The government has
  struggled to meet the demands of Egypt's growing population through
  economic reform and massive investment in communications and
  physical infrastructure.

El Salvador
  El Salvador achieved independence from Spain in 1821 and
  from the Central American Federation in 1839. A 12-year civil war,
  which cost about 75,000 lives, was brought to a close in 1992 when
  the government and leftist rebels signed a treaty that provided for
  military and political reforms.

Equatorial Guinea
  Equatorial Guinea gained independence in 1968
  after 190 years of Spanish rule. This tiny country, composed of a
  mainland portion plus five inhabited islands, is one of the smallest
  on the African continent. President Teodoro OBIANG NGUEMA MBASOGO
  has ruled the country since 1979 when he seized power in a coup.
  Although nominally a constitutional democracy since 1991, the 1996
  and 2002 presidential elections - as well as the 1999 and 2004
  legislative elections - were widely seen as flawed. The president
  exerts almost total control over the political system and has
  discouraged political opposition. Equatorial Guinea has experienced
  rapid economic growth due to the discovery of large offshore oil
  reserves, and in the last decade has become Sub-Saharan Africa's
  third largest oil exporter. Despite the country's economic windfall
  from oil production resulting in a massive increase in government
  revenue in recent years, there have been few improvements in the
  population's living standards.

Eritrea
  Eritrea was awarded to Ethiopia in 1952 as part of a
  federation. Ethiopia's annexation of Eritrea as a province 10 years
  later sparked a 30-year struggle for independence that ended in 1991
  with Eritrean rebels defeating governmental forces; independence was
  overwhelmingly approved in a 1993 referendum. A two-and-a-half-year
  border war with Ethiopia that erupted in 1998 ended under UN
  auspices in December 2000. Eritrea currently hosts a UN peacekeeping
  operation that is monitoring a 25 km-wide Temporary Security Zone
  (TSZ) on the border with Ethiopia. An international commission,
  organized to resolve the border dispute, posted its findings in
  2002. However, both parties have been unable to reach agreement on
  implementing the decision. On 30 November 2007, the Eritrea-Ethiopia
  Boundary Commission remotely demarcated the border by coordinates
  and dissolved itself, leaving Ethiopia still occupying several
  tracts of disputed territory, including the town of Badme. Eritrea
  accepted the EEBC's "virtual demarcation" decision and called on
  Ethiopia to remove its troops from the TSZ which it states is
  Eritrean territory. Ethiopia has not accepted the virtual
  demarcation decision.

Estonia
  After centuries of Danish, Swedish, German, and Russian
  rule, Estonia attained independence in 1918. Forcibly incorporated
  into the USSR in 1940 - an action never recognized by the US - it
  regained its freedom in 1991, with the collapse of the Soviet Union.
  Since the last Russian troops left in 1994, Estonia has been free to
  promote economic and political ties with Western Europe. It joined
  both NATO and the EU in the spring of 2004.

Ethiopia
  Unique among African countries, the ancient Ethiopian
  monarchy maintained its freedom from colonial rule with the
  exception of the 1936-41 Italian occupation during World War II. In
  1974, a military junta, the Derg, deposed Emperor Haile SELASSIE
  (who had ruled since 1930) and established a socialist state. Torn
  by bloody coups, uprisings, wide-scale drought, and massive refugee
  problems, the regime was finally toppled in 1991 by a coalition of
  rebel forces, the Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front
  (EPRDF). A constitution was adopted in 1994, and Ethiopia's first
  multiparty elections were held in 1995. A border war with Eritrea
  late in the 1990s ended with a peace treaty in December 2000. The
  Eritrea-Ethiopia Border Commission in November 2007 remotely
  demarcated the border by geographical coordinates, but final
  demarcation of the boundary on the ground is currently on hold
  because of Ethiopian objections to an international commission's
  finding requiring it to surrender territory considered sensitive to
  Ethiopia.

European Union
  Following the two devastating World Wars of the first
  half of the 20th century, a number of European leaders in the late
  1940s became convinced that the only way to establish a lasting
  peace was to unite the two chief belligerent nations - France and
  Germany - both economically and politically. In 1950, the French
  Foreign Minister Robert SCHUMAN proposed an eventual union of all
  Europe, the first step of which would be the integration of the coal
  and steel industries of Western Europe. The following year the
  European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) was set up when six
  members, Belgium, France, West Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, and the
  Netherlands, signed the Treaty of Paris.
  The ECSC was so successful that within a few years the decision was
  made to integrate other parts of the countries' economies. In 1957,
  the Treaties of Rome created the European Economic Community (EEC)
  and the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom), and the six
  member states undertook to eliminate trade barriers among themselves
  by forming a common market. In 1967, the institutions of all three
  communities were formally merged into the European Community (EC),
  creating a single Commission, a single Council of Ministers, and the
  European Parliament. Members of the European Parliament were
  initially selected by national parliaments, but in 1979 the first
  direct elections were undertaken and they have been held every five
  years since.
  In 1973, the first enlargement of the EC took place with the
  addition of Denmark, Ireland, and the United Kingdom. The 1980s saw
  further membership expansion with Greece joining in 1981 and Spain
  and Portugal in 1986. The 1992 Treaty of Maastricht laid the basis
  for further forms of cooperation in foreign and defense policy, in
  judicial and internal affairs, and in the creation of an economic
  and monetary union - including a common currency. This further
  integration created the European Union (EU). In 1995, Austria,
  Finland, and Sweden joined the EU, raising the membership total to
  15.
  A new currency, the euro, was launched in world money markets on 1
  January 1999; it became the unit of exchange for all of the EU
  states except the United Kingdom, Sweden, and Denmark. In 2002,
  citizens of the 12 euro-area countries began using the euro
  banknotes and coins. Ten new countries joined the EU in 2004 -
  Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania,
  Malta, Poland, Slovakia, and Slovenia - and in 2007 Bulgaria and
  Romania joined, bringing the current membership to 27. In order to
  ensure that the EU can continue to function efficiently with an
  expanded membership, the Treaty of Nice (in force as of 1 February
  2003) set forth rules streamlining the size and procedures of EU
  institutions. An effort to establish an EU constitution, begun in
  October 2004, failed to attain unanimous ratification. A new effort,
  undertaken in June 2007, calls for the creation of an
  Intergovernmental Conference to form a political agreement, known as
  the Reform Treaty, which is to serve as a constitution. Unlike the
  constitution, however, the Reform Treaty would amend existing
  treaties rather than replace them.

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  Although first sighted by an
  English navigator in 1592, the first landing (English) did not occur
  until almost a century later in 1690, and the first settlement
  (French) was not established until 1764. The colony was turned over
  to Spain two years later and the islands have since been the subject
  of a territorial dispute, first between Britain and Spain, then
  between Britain and Argentina. The UK asserted its claim to the
  islands by establishing a naval garrison there in 1833. Argentina
  invaded the islands on 2 April 1982. The British responded with an
  expeditionary force that landed seven weeks later and after fierce
  fighting forced an Argentine surrender on 14 June 1982.

Faroe Islands
  The population of the Faroe Islands is largely
  descended from Viking settlers who arrived in the 9th century. The
  islands have been connected politically to Denmark since the 14th
  century. A high degree of self government was attained in 1948.

Fiji
  Fiji became independent in 1970, after nearly a century as a
  British colony. Democratic rule was interrupted by two military
  coups in 1987, caused by concern over a government perceived as
  dominated by the Indian community (descendants of contract laborers
  brought to the islands by the British in the 19th century). The
  coups and a 1990 constitution that cemented native Melanesian
  control of Fiji, led to heavy Indian emigration; the population loss
  resulted in economic difficulties, but ensured that Melanesians
  became the majority. A new constitution enacted in 1997 was more
  equitable. Free and peaceful elections in 1999 resulted in a
  government led by an Indo-Fijian, but a civilian-led coup in May
  2000 ushered in a prolonged period of political turmoil.
  Parliamentary elections held in August 2001 provided Fiji with a
  democratically elected government led by Prime Minister Laisenia
  QARASE. Re-elected in May 2006, QARASE was ousted in a December 2006
  military coup led by Commodore Voreqe BAINIMARAMA, who initially
  appointed himself acting president. In January 2007, BAINIMARAMA was
  appointed interim prime minister.

Finland
  Finland was a province and then a grand duchy under Sweden
  from the 12th to the 19th centuries, and an autonomous grand duchy
  of Russia after 1809. It won its complete independence in 1917.
  During World War II, it was able to successfully defend its freedom
  and resist invasions by the Soviet Union - albeit with some loss of
  territory. In the subsequent half century, the Finns made a
  remarkable transformation from a farm/forest economy to a
  diversified modern industrial economy; per capita income is now
  among the highest in Western Europe. A member of the European Union
  since 1995, Finland was the only Nordic state to join the euro
  system at its initiation in January 1999.

France
  Although ultimately a victor in World Wars I and II, France
  suffered extensive losses in its empire, wealth, manpower, and rank
  as a dominant nation-state. Nevertheless, France today is one of the
  most modern countries in the world and is a leader among European
  nations. Since 1958, it has constructed a hybrid
  presidential-parliamentary governing system resistant to the
  instabilities experienced in earlier more purely parliamentary
  administrations. In recent years, its reconciliation and cooperation
  with Germany have proved central to the economic integration of
  Europe, including the introduction of a common exchange currency,
  the euro, in January 1999. At present, France is at the forefront of
  efforts to develop the EU's military capabilities to supplement
  progress toward an EU foreign policy.

French Polynesia
  The French annexed various Polynesian island groups
  during the 19th century. In September 1995, France stirred up
  widespread protests by resuming nuclear testing on the Mururoa atoll
  after a three-year moratorium. The tests were suspended in January
  1996. In recent years, French Polynesia's autonomy has been
  considerably expanded.

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  In February 2007, the Iles
  Eparses became an integral part of the French Southern and Antarctic
  Lands (TAAF). The Southern Lands are now divided into five
  administrative districts, two of which are archipelagos, Iles Crozet
  and Iles Kerguelen; the third is a district composed of two volcanic
  islands, Ile Saint-Paul and Ile Amsterdam; the fourth, Iles Eparses,
  consists of five scattered tropical islands around Madagascar. They
  contain no permanent inhabitants and are visited only by researchers
  studying the native fauna, scientists at the various scientific
  stations, fishermen, and military personnel. The fifth district is
  the Antarctic portion, which consists of "Adelie Land," a thin slice
  of the Antarctic continent discovered and claimed by the French in
  1840.
  Ile Amsterdam: Discovered but not named in 1522 by the Spanish, the
  island subsequently received the appellation of Nieuw Amsterdam from
  a Dutchman; it was claimed by France in 1843. A short-lived attempt
  at cattle farming began in 1871. A French meteorological station
  established on the island in 1949 is still in use.
  Ile Saint Paul: Claimed by France since 1893, the island was a
  fishing industry center from 1843 to 1914. In 1928, a spiny lobster
  cannery was established, but when the company went bankrupt in 1931,
  seven workers were abandoned. Only two survived until 1934 when
  rescue finally arrived.
  Iles Crozet: A large archipelago formed from the Crozet Plateau,
  Iles Crozet is divided into two main groups: L'Occidental (the
  West), which includes Ile aux Cochons, Ilots des Apotres, Ile des
  Pingouins, and the reefs Brisants de l'Heroine; and L'Oriental (the
  east), which includes Ile d'Est and Ile de la Possession (the
  largest island of the Crozets). Discovered and claimed by France in
  1772, the islands were used for seal hunting and as a base for
  whaling. Originally administered as a dependency of Madagascar, they
  became part of the TAAF in 1955.
  Iles Kerguelen: This island group, discovered in 1772, is made up of
  one large island (Ile Kerguelen) and about 300 smaller islands. A
  permanent group of 50 to 100 scientists resides at the main base at
  Port-aux-Francais.
  Adelie Land: The only non-insular district of the TAAF is the
  Antarctic claim known as "Adelie Land." The US Government does not
  recognize it as a French dependency.
  Bassas da India: A French possession since 1897, this atoll is a
  volcanic rock surrounded by reefs and is awash at high tide.
  Europa Island: This heavily wooded island has been a French
  possession since 1897; it is the site of a small military garrison
  that staffs a weather station.
  Glorioso Islands: A French possession since 1892, the Glorioso
  Islands are composed of two lushly vegetated coral islands (Ile
  Glorieuse and Ile du Lys) and three rock islets. A military garrison
  operates a weather and radio station on Ile Glorieuse.
  Juan de Nova Island: Named after a famous 15th century Spanish
  navigator and explorer, the island has been a French possession
  since 1897. It has been exploited for its guano and phosphate.
  Presently a small military garrison oversees a meteorological
  station.
  Tromelin Island: First explored by the French in 1776, the island
  came under the jurisdiction of Reunion in 1814. At present, it
  serves as a sea turtle sanctuary and is the site of an important
  meteorological station.

Gabon
  Only two autocratic presidents have ruled Gabon since
  independence from France in 1960. The current president of Gabon, El
  Hadj Omar BONGO Ondimba - one of the longest-serving heads of state
  in the world - has dominated the country's political scene for four
  decades. President BONGO introduced a nominal multiparty system and
  a new constitution in the early 1990s. However, allegations of
  electoral fraud during local elections in 2002-03 and the
  presidential elections in 2005 have exposed the weaknesses of formal
  political structures in Gabon. Gabon's political opposition remains
  weak, divided, and financially dependent on the current regime.
  Despite political conditions, a small population, abundant natural
  resources, and considerable foreign support have helped make Gabon
  one of the more prosperous and stable African countries.

Gambia, The
  The Gambia gained its independence from the UK in 1965.
  Geographically surrounded by Senegal, it formed a short-lived
  federation of Senegambia between 1982 and 1989. In 1991 the two
  nations signed a friendship and cooperation treaty, but tensions
  have flared up intermittently since then. Yahya A. J. J. JAMMEH led
  a military coup in 1994 that overthrew the president and banned
  political activity. A new constitution and presidential elections in
  1996, followed by parliamentary balloting in 1997, completed a
  nominal return to civilian rule. JAMMEH has been elected president
  in all subsequent elections, including most recently in late 2006.

Gaza Strip
  The September 1993 Israel-PLO Declaration of Principles
  on Interim Self-Government Arrangements provided for a transitional
  period of Palestinian self-rule in the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
  Under a series of agreements signed between May 1994 and September
  1999, Israel transferred to the Palestinian Authority (PA) security
  and civilian responsibility for Palestinian-populated areas of the
  West Bank and Gaza. Negotiations to determine the permanent status
  of the West Bank and Gaza stalled following the outbreak of an
  intifada in September 2000, as Israeli forces reoccupied most
  Palestinian-controlled areas. In April 2003, the Quartet (US, EU,
  UN, and Russia) presented a roadmap to a final settlement of the
  conflict by 2005 based on reciprocal steps by the two parties
  leading to two states, Israel and a democratic Palestine. The
  proposed date for a permanent status agreement was postponed
  indefinitely due to violence and accusations that both sides had not
  followed through on their commitments. Following Palestinian leader
  Yasir ARAFAT's death in late 2004, Mahmud ABBAS was elected PA
  president in January 2005. A month later, Israel and the PA agreed
  to the Sharm el-Sheikh Commitments in an effort to move the peace
  process forward. In September 2005, Israel unilaterally withdrew all
  its settlers and soldiers and dismantled its military facilities in
  the Gaza Strip and withdrew settlers and redeployed soldiers from
  four small northern West Bank settlements. Nonetheless, Israel
  controls maritime, airspace, and most access to the Gaza Strip. A
  November 2005 PA-Israeli agreement authorized the reopening of the
  Rafah border crossing between the Gaza Strip and Egypt under joint
  PA and Egyptian control. In January 2006, the Islamic Resistance
  Movement, HAMAS, won control of the Palestinian Legislative Council
  (PLC). The international community refused to accept the HAMAS-led
  government because it did not recognize Israel, would not renounce
  violence, and refused to honor previous peace agreements between
  Israel and the PA. HAMAS took control of the PA government in March
  2006, but President ABBAS had little success negotiating with HAMAS
  to present a political platform acceptable to the international
  community so as to lift economic sanctions on Palestinians. The PLC
  was unable to convene throughout most of 2006 as a result of
  Israel's detention of many HAMAS PLC members and Israeli-imposed
  travel restrictions on other PLC members. Violent clashes took place
  between Fatah and HAMAS supporters in the Gaza Strip in 2006 and
  early 2007, resulting in numerous Palestinian deaths and injuries.
  ABBAS and HAMAS Political Bureau Chief MISHAL in February 2007
  signed the Mecca Agreement in Saudi Arabia that resulted in the
  formation of a Palestinian National Unity Government (NUG) headed by
  HAMAS member Ismail HANIYA. However, fighting continued in the Gaza
  Strip, and in June, HAMAS militants succeeded in a violent takeover
  of all military and governmental institutions in the Gaza Strip.
  ABBAS dismissed the NUG and through a series of Presidential decrees
  formed a PA government in the West Bank led by independent Salam
  FAYYAD. HAMAS rejected the NUG's dismissal and has called for
  resuming talks with Fatah, but ABBAS has ruled out negotiations
  until HAMAS agrees to a return of PA control over the Gaza Strip and
  recognizes the FAYYAD-led government. FAYYAD and his PA government
  initiated a series of security and economic reforms to improve
  conditions in the West Bank. ABBAS participated in talks with
  Israel's Prime Minister OLMERT and secured the release of some
  Palestinian prisoners and previously withheld customs revenue.
  During a November 2007 international meeting in Annapolis Maryland,
  ABBAS and OLMERT agreed to resume peace negotiations with the goal
  of reaching a final peace settlement by the end of 2008.

Georgia
  The region of present-day Georgia contained the ancient
  kingdoms of Colchis and Kartli-Iberia. The area came under Roman
  influence in the first centuries A.D. and Christianity became the
  state religion in the 330s. Domination by Persians, Arabs, and Turks
  was followed by a Georgian golden age (11th-13th centuries) that was
  cut short by the Mongol invasion of 1236. Subsequently, the Ottoman
  and Persian empires competed for influence in the region. Georgia
  was absorbed into the Russian Empire in the 19th century.
  Independent for three years (1918-1921) following the Russian
  revolution, it was forcibly incorporated into the USSR until the
  Soviet Union dissolved in 1991. An attempt by the incumbent Georgian
  government to manipulate national legislative elections in November
  2003 touched off widespread protests that led to the resignation of
  Eduard SHEVARDNADZE, president since 1995. New elections in early
  2004 swept Mikheil SAAKASHVILI into power along with his National
  Movement party. Progress on market reforms and democratization has
  been made in the years since independence, but this progress has
  been complicated by Russian assistance and support to the breakaway
  regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia. Georgian military action in
  South Ossetia in early August 2008 led to a Russian military
  response that not only occupied the breakaway areas, but large
  portions of Georgia proper as well. Russian troops pulled back from
  most occupied Georgian territory, but in late August 2008 Russia
  unilaterally recognized the independence of Abkhazia and South
  Ossetia. This action was strongly condemned by most of the world's
  nations and international organizations.

Germany
  As Europe's largest economy and second most populous nation,
  Germany is a key member of the continent's economic, political, and
  defense organizations. European power struggles immersed Germany in
  two devastating World Wars in the first half of the 20th century and
  left the country occupied by the victorious Allied powers of the US,
  UK, France, and the Soviet Union in 1945. With the advent of the
  Cold War, two German states were formed in 1949: the western Federal
  Republic of Germany (FRG) and the eastern German Democratic Republic
  (GDR). The democratic FRG embedded itself in key Western economic
  and security organizations, the EC, which became the EU, and NATO,
  while the Communist GDR was on the front line of the Soviet-led
  Warsaw Pact. The decline of the USSR and the end of the Cold War
  allowed for German unification in 1990. Since then, Germany has
  expended considerable funds to bring Eastern productivity and wages
  up to Western standards. In January 1999, Germany and 10 other EU
  countries introduced a common European exchange currency, the euro.

Ghana
  Formed from the merger of the British colony of the Gold Coast
  and the Togoland trust territory, Ghana in 1957 became the first
  sub-Saharan country in colonial Africa to gain its independence.
  Ghana endured a long series of coups before Lt. Jerry RAWLINGS took
  power in 1981 and banned political parties. After approving a new
  constitution and restoring multiparty politics in 1992, RAWLINGS won
  presidential elections in 1992 and 1996, but was constitutionally
  prevented from running for a third term in 2000. John KUFUOR
  succeeded him and was reelected in 2004. Kufuor is constitutionally
  barred from running for a third term in upcoming Presidential
  elections, which are scheduled for December 2008.

Gibraltar
  Strategically important, Gibraltar was reluctantly ceded
  to Great Britain by Spain in the 1713 Treaty of Utrecht; the British
  garrison was formally declared a colony in 1830. In a referendum
  held in 1967, Gibraltarians voted overwhelmingly to remain a British
  dependency. The subsequent granting of autonomy in 1969 by the UK
  led to Spain closing the border and severing all communication
  links. A series of talks were held by the UK and Spain between 1997
  and 2002 on establishing temporary joint sovereignty over Gibraltar.
  In response to these talks, the Gibraltar Government called a
  referendum in late 2002 in which the majority of citizens voted
  overwhelmingly against any sharing of sovereignty with Spain. Since
  the referendum, tripartite talks on other issues have been held with
  Spain, the UK, and Gibraltar, and in September 2006 a three-way
  agreement was signed. Spain agreed to remove restrictions on air
  movements, to speed up customs procedures, to implement
  international telephone dialing, and to allow mobile roaming
  agreements. Britain agreed to pay increased pensions to Spaniards
  who had been employed in Gibraltar before the border closed. Spain
  will be allowed to open a cultural institute from which the Spanish
  flag will fly. A new noncolonial constitution came into effect in
  2007, but the UK retains responsibility for defense, foreign
  relations, internal security, and financial stability.

Greece
  Greece achieved independence from the Ottoman Empire in 1829.
  During the second half of the 19th century and the first half of the
  20th century, it gradually added neighboring islands and
  territories, most with Greek-speaking populations. In World War II,
  Greece was first invaded by Italy (1940) and subsequently occupied
  by Germany (1941-44); fighting endured in a protracted civil war
  between supporters of the king and Communist rebels. Following the
  latter's defeat in 1949, Greece joined NATO in 1952. A military
  dictatorship, which in 1967 suspended many political liberties and
  forced the king to flee the country, lasted seven years. The 1974
  democratic elections and a referendum created a parliamentary
  republic and abolished the monarchy. In 1981, Greece joined the EC
  (now the EU); it became the 12th member of the European Economic and
  Monetary Union in 2001.

Greenland
  Greenland, the world's largest island, is about 81%
  ice-capped. Vikings reached the island in the 10th century from
  Iceland; Danish colonization began in the 18th century, and
  Greenland was made an integral part of Denmark in 1953. It joined
  the European Community (now the EU) with Denmark in 1973, but
  withdrew in 1985 over a dispute centered on stringent fishing
  quotas. Greenland was granted self-government in 1979 by the Danish
  parliament; the law went into effect the following year. Denmark
  continues to exercise control of Greenland's foreign affairs in
  consultation with Greenland's Home Rule Government.

Grenada
  Carib Indians inhabited Grenada when COLUMBUS discovered the
  island in 1498, but it remained uncolonized for more than a century.
  The French settled Grenada in the 17th century, established sugar
  estates, and imported large numbers of African slaves. Britain took
  the island in 1762 and vigorously expanded sugar production. In the
  19th century, cacao eventually surpassed sugar as the main export
  crop; in the 20th century, nutmeg became the leading export. In
  1967, Britain gave Grenada autonomy over its internal affairs. Full
  independence was attained in 1974, making Grenada one of the
  smallest independent countries in the Western Hemisphere. Grenada
  was seized by a Marxist military council on 19 October 1983. Six
  days later the island was invaded by US forces and those of six
  other Caribbean nations, which quickly captured the ringleaders and
  their hundreds of Cuban advisers. Free elections were reinstituted
  the following year and have continued since that time. Hurricane
  Ivan struck Grenada in September of 2004 causing severe damage.

Guam
  Guam was ceded to the US by Spain in 1898. Captured by the
  Japanese in 1941, it was retaken by the US three years later. The
  military installation on the island is one of the most strategically
  important US bases in the Pacific.

Guatemala
  The Mayan civilization flourished in Guatemala and
  surrounding regions during the first millennium A.D. After almost
  three centuries as a Spanish colony, Guatemala won its independence
  in 1821. During the second half of the 20th century, it experienced
  a variety of military and civilian governments, as well as a 36-year
  guerrilla war. In 1996, the government signed a peace agreement
  formally ending the conflict, which had left more than 100,000
  people dead and had created, by some estimates, some 1 million
  refugees.

Guernsey
  Guernsey and the other Channel Islands represent the last
  remnants of the medieval Dukedom of Normandy, which held sway in
  both France and England. The islands were the only British soil
  occupied by German troops in World War II. Guernsey is a British
  crown dependency, but is not part of the UK. However, the UK
  Government is constitutionally responsible for its defense and
  international representation.

Guinea
  Guinea has had only two presidents since gaining its
  independence from France in 1958. Lansana CONTE came to power in
  1984 when the military seized the government after the death of the
  first president, Sekou TOURE. Guinea did not hold democratic
  elections until 1993 when Gen. CONTE (head of the military
  government) was elected president of the civilian government. He was
  reelected in 1998 and again in 2003, though all the polls have been
  marred by irregularities. Guinea has maintained its internal
  stability despite spillover effects from conflict in Sierra Leone
  and Liberia. As those countries have rebuilt, Guinea's own
  vulnerability to political and economic crisis has increased.
  Declining economic conditions and popular dissatisfaction with
  corruption and bad governance prompted two massive strikes in 2006;
  a third nationwide strike in early 2007 sparked violent protests in
  many Guinean cities and prompted two weeks of martial law. To
  appease the unions and end the unrest, CONTE named a new prime
  minister in March 2007.

Guinea-Bissau
  Since independence from Portugal in 1974,
  Guinea-Bissau has experienced considerable political and military
  upheaval. In 1980, a military coup established authoritarian
  dictator Joao Bernardo 'Nino' VIEIRA as president. Despite setting a
  path to a market economy and multiparty system, VIEIRA's regime was
  characterized by the suppression of political opposition and the
  purging of political rivals. Several coup attempts through the 1980s
  and early 1990s failed to unseat him. In 1994 VIEIRA was elected
  president in the country's first free elections. A military mutiny
  and resulting civil war in 1998 eventually led to VIEIRA's ouster in
  May 1999. In February 2000, a transitional government turned over
  power to opposition leader Kumba YALA, after he was elected
  president in transparent polling. In September 2003, after only
  three years in office, YALA was ousted by the military in a
  bloodless coup, and businessman Henrique ROSA was sworn in as
  interim president. In 2005, former President VIEIRA was re-elected
  president pledging to pursue economic development and national
  reconciliation.

Guyana
  Originally a Dutch colony in the 17th century, by 1815 Guyana
  had become a British possession. The abolition of slavery led to
  black settlement of urban areas and the importation of indentured
  servants from India to work the sugar plantations. This
  ethnocultural divide has persisted and has led to turbulent
  politics. Guyana achieved independence from the UK in 1966, and
  since then it has been ruled mostly by socialist-oriented
  governments. In 1992, Cheddi JAGAN was elected president in what is
  considered the country's first free and fair election since
  independence. After his death five years later, his wife, Janet
  JAGAN, became president but resigned in 1999 due to poor health. Her
  successor, Bharrat JAGDEO, was reelected in 2001 and again in 2006.

Haiti
  The native Taino Amerindians - who inhabited the island of
  Hispaniola when it was discovered by COLUMBUS in 1492 - were
  virtually annihilated by Spanish settlers within 25 years. In the
  early 17th century, the French established a presence on Hispaniola,
  and in 1697, Spain ceded to the French the western third of the
  island, which later became Haiti. The French colony, based on
  forestry and sugar-related industries, became one of the wealthiest
  in the Caribbean, but only through the heavy importation of African
  slaves and considerable environmental degradation. In the late 18th
  century, Haiti's nearly half million slaves revolted under Toussaint
  L'OUVERTURE. After a prolonged struggle, Haiti became the first
  black republic to declare its independence in 1804. The poorest
  country in the Western Hemisphere, Haiti has been plagued by
  political violence for most of its history. After an armed rebellion
  led to the forced resignation and exile of President Jean-Bertrand
  ARISTIDE in February 2004, an interim government took office to
  organize new elections under the auspices of the United Nations
  Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH). Continued violence and
  technical delays prompted repeated postponements, but Haiti finally
  did inaugurate a democratically elected president and parliament in
  May of 2006.

Heard Island and McDonald Islands
  These uninhabited, barren,
  sub-Antarctic islands were transferred from the UK to Australia in
  1947. Populated by large numbers of seal and bird species, the
  islands have been designated a nature preserve.

Holy See (Vatican City)
  Popes in their secular role ruled portions
  of the Italian peninsula for more than a thousand years until the
  mid 19th century, when many of the Papal States were seized by the
  newly united Kingdom of Italy. In 1870, the pope's holdings were
  further circumscribed when Rome itself was annexed. Disputes between
  a series of "prisoner" popes and Italy were resolved in 1929 by
  three Lateran Treaties, which established the independent state of
  Vatican City and granted Roman Catholicism special status in Italy.
  In 1984, a concordat between the Holy See and Italy modified certain
  of the earlier treaty provisions, including the primacy of Roman
  Catholicism as the Italian state religion. Present concerns of the
  Holy See include religious freedom, international development, the
  environment, the Middle East, China, the decline of religion in
  Europe, terrorism, interreligious dialogue and reconciliation, and
  the application of church doctrine in an era of rapid change and
  globalization. About one billion people worldwide profess the
  Catholic faith.

Honduras
  Once part of Spain's vast empire in the New World, Honduras
  became an independent nation in 1821. After two and a half decades
  of mostly military rule, a freely elected civilian government came
  to power in 1982. During the 1980s, Honduras proved a haven for
  anti-Sandinista contras fighting the Marxist Nicaraguan Government
  and an ally to Salvadoran Government forces fighting leftist
  guerrillas. The country was devastated by Hurricane Mitch in 1998,
  which killed about 5,600 people and caused approximately $2 billion
  in damage.

Hong Kong
  Occupied by the UK in 1841, Hong Kong was formally ceded
  by China the following year; various adjacent lands were added later
  in the 19th century. Pursuant to an agreement signed by China and
  the UK on 19 December 1984, Hong Kong became the Hong Kong Special
  Administrative Region (SAR) of China on 1 July 1997. In this
  agreement, China promised that, under its "one country, two systems"
  formula, China's socialist economic system would not be imposed on
  Hong Kong and that Hong Kong would enjoy a high degree of autonomy
  in all matters except foreign and defense affairs for the next 50
  years.

Hungary
  Hungary became a Christian kingdom in A.D. 1000 and for many
  centuries served as a bulwark against Ottoman Turkish expansion in
  Europe. The kingdom eventually became part of the polyglot
  Austro-Hungarian Empire, which collapsed during World War I. The
  country fell under Communist rule following World War II. In 1956, a
  revolt and an announced withdrawal from the Warsaw Pact were met
  with a massive military intervention by Moscow. Under the leadership
  of Janos KADAR in 1968, Hungary began liberalizing its economy,
  introducing so-called "Goulash Communism." Hungary held its first
  multiparty elections in 1990 and initiated a free market economy. It
  joined NATO in 1999 and the EU in 2004.

Iceland
  Settled by Norwegian and Celtic (Scottish and Irish)
  immigrants during the late 9th and 10th centuries A.D., Iceland
  boasts the world's oldest functioning legislative assembly, the
  Althing, established in 930. Independent for over 300 years, Iceland
  was subsequently ruled by Norway and Denmark. Fallout from the Askja
  volcano of 1875 devastated the Icelandic economy and caused
  widespread famine. Over the next quarter century, 20% of the
  island's population emigrated, mostly to Canada and the US. Limited
  home rule from Denmark was granted in 1874 and complete independence
  attained in 1944. Literacy, longevity, income, and social cohesion
  are first-rate by world standards.

India
  Aryan tribes from the northwest infiltrated onto the Indian
  subcontinent about 1500 B.C.; their merger with the earlier
  Dravidian inhabitants created the classical Indian culture. The
  Maurya Empire of the 4th and 3rd centuries B.C. - which reached its
  zenith under ASHOKA - united much of South Asia. The Golden Age
  ushered in by the Gupta dynasty (4th to 6th centuries A.D.) saw a
  flowering of Indian science, art, and culture. Arab incursions
  starting in the 8th century and Turkic in the 12th were followed by
  those of European traders, beginning in the late 15th century. By
  the 19th century, Britain had assumed political control of virtually
  all Indian lands. Indian armed forces in the British army played a
  vital role in both World Wars. Nonviolent resistance to British
  colonialism led by Mohandas GANDHI and Jawaharlal NEHRU brought
  independence in 1947. The subcontinent was divided into the secular
  state of India and the smaller Muslim state of Pakistan. A third war
  between the two countries in 1971 resulted in East Pakistan becoming
  the separate nation of Bangladesh. India's nuclear weapons testing
  in 1998 caused Pakistan to conduct its own tests that same year. The
  dispute between the countries over the state of Kashmir is ongoing,
  but discussions and confidence-building measures have led to
  decreased tensions since 2002. Despite impressive gains in economic
  investment and output, India faces pressing problems such as
  significant overpopulation, environmental degradation, extensive
  poverty, and ethnic and religious strife.

Indian Ocean
  The Indian Ocean is the third largest of the world's
  five oceans (after the Pacific Ocean and Atlantic Ocean, but larger
  than the Southern Ocean and Arctic Ocean). Four critically important
  access waterways are the Suez Canal (Egypt), Bab el Mandeb
  (Djibouti-Yemen), Strait of Hormuz (Iran-Oman), and Strait of
  Malacca (Indonesia-Malaysia). The decision by the International
  Hydrographic Organization in the spring of 2000 to delimit a fifth
  ocean, the Southern Ocean, removed the portion of the Indian Ocean
  south of 60 degrees south latitude.

Indonesia
  The Dutch began to colonize Indonesia in the early 17th
  century; the islands were occupied by Japan from 1942 to 1945.
  Indonesia declared its independence after Japan's surrender, but it
  required four years of intermittent negotiations, recurring
  hostilities, and UN mediation before the Netherlands agreed to
  relinquish its colony. Indonesia is the world's largest archipelagic
  state and home to the world's largest Muslim population. Current
  issues include: alleviating poverty, preventing terrorism,
  consolidating democracy after four decades of authoritarianism,
  implementing financial sector reforms, stemming corruption, holding
  the military and police accountable for human rights violations, and
  controlling avian influenza. In 2005, Indonesia reached a historic
  peace agreement with armed separatists in Aceh, which led to
  democratic elections in December 2006. Indonesia continues to face a
  low intensity separatist movement in Papua.

Iran
  Known as Persia until 1935, Iran became an Islamic republic in
  1979 after the ruling monarchy was overthrown and the shah was
  forced into exile. Conservative clerical forces established a
  theocratic system of government with ultimate political authority
  vested in a learned religious scholar referred to commonly as the
  Supreme Leader who, according to the constitution, is accountable
  only to the Assembly of Experts. US-Iranian relations have been
  strained since a group of Iranian students seized the US Embassy in
  Tehran on 4 November 1979 and held it until 20 January 1981. During
  1980-88, Iran fought a bloody, indecisive war with Iraq that
  eventually expanded into the Persian Gulf and led to clashes between
  US Navy and Iranian military forces between 1987 and 1988. Iran has
  been designated a state sponsor of terrorism for its activities in
  Lebanon and elsewhere in the world and remains subject to US and UN
  economic sanctions and export controls because of its continued
  involvement in terrorism and conventional weapons proliferation.
  Following the election of reformer Hojjat ol-Eslam Mohammad KHATAMI
  as president in 1997 and similarly a reformer Majles (parliament) in
  2000, a campaign to foster political reform in response to popular
  dissatisfaction was initiated. The movement floundered as
  conservative politicians, through the control of unelected
  institutions, prevented reform measures from being enacted and
  increased repressive measures. Starting with nationwide municipal
  elections in 2003 and continuing through Majles elections in 2004,
  conservatives reestablished control over Iran's elected government
  institutions, which culminated with the August 2005 inauguration of
  hardliner Mahmud AHMADI-NEJAD as president. In December 2006 and
  March 2007, the international community passed resolutions 1737 and
  1747 respectively after Iran failed to comply with UN demands to
  halt the enrichment of uranium or to agree to full IAEA oversight of
  its nuclear program. In October 2007, Iranian entities were also
  subject to US sanctions under EO 13382 designations for
  proliferation activities and EO 13224 designations for providing
  material support to the Taliban and other terrorist organizations.

Iraq
  Formerly part of the Ottoman Empire, Iraq was occupied by
  Britain during the course of World War I; in 1920, it was declared a
  League of Nations mandate under UK administration. In stages over
  the next dozen years, Iraq attained its independence as a kingdom in
  1932. A "republic" was proclaimed in 1958, but in actuality a series
  of military strongmen ruled the country until 2003. The last was
  SADDAM Husayn. Territorial disputes with Iran led to an inconclusive
  and costly eight-year war (1980-88). In August 1990, Iraq seized
  Kuwait but was expelled by US-led, UN coalition forces during the
  Gulf War of January-February 1991. Following Kuwait's liberation,
  the UN Security Council (UNSC) required Iraq to scrap all weapons of
  mass destruction and long-range missiles and to allow UN
  verification inspections. Continued Iraqi noncompliance with UNSC
  resolutions over a period of 12 years led to the US-led invasion of
  Iraq in March 2003 and the ouster of the SADDAM Husayn regime.
  Coalition forces remain in Iraq under a UNSC mandate, helping to
  provide security and to support the freely elected government. The
  Coalition Provisional Authority, which temporarily administered Iraq
  after the invasion, transferred full governmental authority on 28
  June 2004 to the Iraqi Interim Government, which governed under the
  Transitional Administrative Law for Iraq (TAL). Under the TAL,
  elections for a 275-member Transitional National Assembly (TNA) were
  held in Iraq on 30 January 2005. Following these elections, the
  Iraqi Transitional Government (ITG) assumed office. The TNA was
  charged with drafting Iraq's permanent constitution, which was
  approved in a 15 October 2005 constitutional referendum. An election
  under the constitution for a 275-member Council of Representatives
  (CoR) was held on 15 December 2005. The CoR approval in the
  selection of most of the cabinet ministers on 20 May 2006 marked the
  transition from the ITG to Iraq's first constitutional government in
  nearly a half-century.

Ireland
  Celtic tribes arrived on the island between 600-150 B.C.
  Invasions by Norsemen that began in the late 8th century were
  finally ended when King Brian BORU defeated the Danes in 1014.
  English invasions began in the 12th century and set off more than
  seven centuries of Anglo-Irish struggle marked by fierce rebellions
  and harsh repressions. A failed 1916 Easter Monday Rebellion touched
  off several years of guerrilla warfare that in 1921 resulted in
  independence from the UK for 26 southern counties; six northern
  (Ulster) counties remained part of the UK. In 1949, Ireland withdrew
  from the British Commonwealth; it joined the European Community in
  1973. Irish governments have sought the peaceful unification of
  Ireland and have cooperated with Britain against terrorist groups. A
  peace settlement for Northern Ireland is being implemented with some
  difficulties. In 2006, the Irish and British governments developed
  and began to implement the St. Andrews Agreement, building on the
  Good Friday Agreement approved in 1998.

Isle of Man
  Part of the Norwegian Kingdom of the Hebrides until the
  13th century when it was ceded to Scotland, the isle came under the
  British crown in 1765. Current concerns include reviving the almost
  extinct Manx Gaelic language. Isle of Man is a British crown
  dependency but is not part of the UK. However, the UK Government
  remains constitutionally responsible for its defense and
  international representation.

Israel
  Following World War II, the British withdrew from their
  mandate of Palestine, and the UN partitioned the area into Arab and
  Jewish states, an arrangement rejected by the Arabs. Subsequently,
  the Israelis defeated the Arabs in a series of wars without ending
  the deep tensions between the two sides. The territories Israel
  occupied since the 1967 war are not included in the Israel country
  profile, unless otherwise noted. On 25 April 1982, Israel withdrew
  from the Sinai pursuant to the 1979 Israel-Egypt Peace Treaty. In
  keeping with the framework established at the Madrid Conference in
  October 1991, bilateral negotiations were conducted between Israel
  and Palestinian representatives and Syria to achieve a permanent
  settlement. Israel and Palestinian officials signed on 13 September
  1993 a Declaration of Principles (also known as the "Oslo Accords")
  guiding an interim period of Palestinian self-rule. Outstanding
  territorial and other disputes with Jordan were resolved in the 26
  October 1994 Israel-Jordan Treaty of Peace. In addition, on 25 May
  2000, Israel withdrew unilaterally from southern Lebanon, which it
  had occupied since 1982. In April 2003, US President BUSH, working
  in conjunction with the EU, UN, and Russia - the "Quartet" - took
  the lead in laying out a roadmap to a final settlement of the
  conflict by 2005, based on reciprocal steps by the two parties
  leading to two states, Israel and a democratic Palestine. However,
  progress toward a permanent status agreement was undermined by
  Israeli-Palestinian violence between September 2003 and February
  2005. An Israeli-Palestinian agreement reached at Sharm al-Sheikh in
  February 2005, along with an internally-brokered Palestinian
  ceasefire, significantly reduced the violence. In the summer of
  2005, Israel unilaterally disengaged from the Gaza Strip, evacuating
  settlers and its military while retaining control over most points
  of entry into the Gaza Strip. The election of HAMAS in January 2006
  to head the Palestinian Legislative Council froze relations between
  Israel and the Palestinian Authority (PA). Ehud OLMERT became prime
  minister in March 2006; following an Israeli military operation in
  Gaza in June-July 2006 and a 34-day conflict with Hizballah in
  Lebanon in June-August 2006, he shelved plans to unilaterally
  evacuate from most of the West Bank. OLMERT in June 2007 resumed
  talks with the PA after HAMAS seized control of the Gaza Strip and
  PA President Mahmoud ABBAS formed a new government without HAMAS.

Italy
  Italy became a nation-state in 1861 when the regional states
  of the peninsula, along with Sardinia and Sicily, were united under
  King Victor EMMANUEL II. An era of parliamentary government came to
  a close in the early 1920s when Benito MUSSOLINI established a
  Fascist dictatorship. His alliance with Nazi Germany led to Italy's
  defeat in World War II. A democratic republic replaced the monarchy
  in 1946 and economic revival followed. Italy was a charter member of
  NATO and the European Economic Community (EEC). It has been at the
  forefront of European economic and political unification, joining
  the Economic and Monetary Union in 1999. Persistent problems include
  illegal immigration, organized crime, corruption, high unemployment,
  sluggish economic growth, and the low incomes and technical
  standards of southern Italy compared with the prosperous north.

Jamaica
  The island - discovered by Christopher COLUMBUS in 1494 -
  was settled by the Spanish early in the 16th century. The native
  Taino Indians, who had inhabited Jamaica for centuries, were
  gradually exterminated and replaced by African slaves. England
  seized the island in 1655 and established a plantation economy based
  on sugar, cocoa, and coffee. The abolition of slavery in 1834 freed
  a quarter million slaves, many of whom became small farmers. Jamaica
  gradually obtained increasing independence from Britain, and in 1958
  it joined other British Caribbean colonies in forming the Federation
  of the West Indies. Jamaica gained full independence when it
  withdrew from the Federation in 1962. Deteriorating economic
  conditions during the 1970s led to recurrent violence as rival gangs
  affiliated with the major political parties evolved into powerful
  organized crime networks involved in international drug smuggling
  and money laundering. Violent crime, drug trafficking, and poverty
  pose significant challenges to the government today. Nonetheless,
  many rural and resort areas remain relatively safe and contribute
  substantially to the economy.

Jan Mayen
  This desolate, arctic, mountainous island was named after
  a Dutch whaling captain who indisputably discovered it in 1614
  (earlier claims are inconclusive). Visited only occasionally by seal
  hunters and trappers over the following centuries, the island came
  under Norwegian sovereignty in 1929. The long dormant Haakon VII
  Toppen/Beerenberg volcano resumed activity in 1970; the most recent
  eruption occurred in 1985. It is the northernmost active volcano on
  earth.

Japan
  In 1603, a Tokugawa shogunate (military dictatorship) ushered
  in a long period of isolation from foreign influence in order to
  secure its power. For more than two centuries this policy enabled
  Japan to enjoy stability and a flowering of its indigenous culture.
  Following the Treaty of Kanagawa with the US in 1854, Japan opened
  its ports and began to intensively modernize and industrialize.
  During the late 19th and early 20th centuries, Japan became a
  regional power that was able to defeat the forces of both China and
  Russia. It occupied Korea, Formosa (Taiwan), and southern Sakhalin
  Island. In 1931-32 Japan occupied Manchuria, and in 1937 it launched
  a full-scale invasion of China. Japan attacked US forces in 1941 -
  triggering America's entry into World War II - and soon occupied
  much of East and Southeast Asia. After its defeat in World War II,
  Japan recovered to become an economic power and a staunch ally of
  the US. While the emperor retains his throne as a symbol of national
  unity, elected politicians - with heavy input from bureaucrats and
  business executives - wield actual decisionmaking power. The economy
  experienced a major slowdown starting in the 1990s following three
  decades of unprecedented growth, but Japan still remains a major
  economic power, both in Asia and globally.

Jersey
  Jersey and the other Channel Islands represent the last
  remnants of the medieval Dukedom of Normandy that held sway in both
  France and England. These islands were the only British soil
  occupied by German troops in World War II. Jersey is a British crown
  dependency but is not part of the UK. However, the UK Government is
  constitutionally responsible for its defense and international
  representation.

Jordan
  Following World War I and the dissolution of the Ottoman
  Empire, the UK received a mandate to govern much of the Middle East.
  Britain separated out a semi-autonomous region of Transjordan from
  Palestine in the early 1920s, and the area gained its independence
  in 1946; it adopted the name of Jordan in 1950. The country's
  long-time ruler was King HUSSEIN (1953-99). A pragmatic leader, he
  successfully navigated competing pressures from the major powers
  (US, USSR, and UK), various Arab states, Israel, and a large
  internal Palestinian population, despite several wars and coup
  attempts. In 1989 he reinstituted parliamentary elections and
  gradual political liberalization; in 1994 he signed a peace treaty
  with Israel. King ABDALLAH II, the son of King HUSSEIN, assumed the
  throne following his father's death in February 1999. Since then, he
  has consolidated his power and undertaken an aggressive economic
  reform program. Jordan acceded to the World Trade Organization in
  2000, and began to participate in the European Free Trade
  Association in 2001. Municipal elections were held in July 2007
  under a system in which 20% of seats in all municipal councils were
  reserved by quota for women. Parliamentary elections were held in
  November 2007 and saw independent pro-government candidates win the
  vast majority of seats. In November 2007, King Abdallah instructed
  his new prime minister to focus on socioeconomic reform, developing
  a healthcare and housing network for civilians and military
  personnel, and improving the educational system.

Kazakhstan
  Native Kazakhs, a mix of Turkic and Mongol nomadic tribes
  who migrated into the region in the 13th century, were rarely united
  as a single nation. The area was conquered by Russia in the 18th
  century, and Kazakhstan became a Soviet Republic in 1936. During the
  1950s and 1960s agricultural "Virgin Lands" program, Soviet citizens
  were encouraged to help cultivate Kazakhstan's northern pastures.
  This influx of immigrants (mostly Russians, but also some other
  deported nationalities) skewed the ethnic mixture and enabled
  non-Kazakhs to outnumber natives. Independence in 1991 caused many
  of these newcomers to emigrate. Kazakhstan's economy is larger than
  those of all the other Central Asian states combined, largely due to
  the country's vast natural resources and a recent history of
  political stability. Current issues include: developing a cohesive
  national identity; expanding the development of the country's vast
  energy resources and exporting them to world markets; achieving a
  sustainable economic growth; diversifying the economy outside the
  oil, gas, and mining sectors; enhancing Kazakhstan's
  competitiveness; and strengthening relations with neighboring states
  and other foreign powers.

Kenya
  Founding president and liberation struggle icon Jomo KENYATTA
  led Kenya from independence in 1963 until his death in 1978, when
  President Daniel Toroitich arap MOI took power in a constitutional
  succession. The country was a de facto one-party state from 1969
  until 1982 when the ruling Kenya African National Union (KANU) made
  itself the sole legal party in Kenya. MOI acceded to internal and
  external pressure for political liberalization in late 1991. The
  ethnically fractured opposition failed to dislodge KANU from power
  in elections in 1992 and 1997, which were marred by violence and
  fraud, but were viewed as having generally reflected the will of the
  Kenyan people. President MOI stepped down in December 2002 following
  fair and peaceful elections. Mwai KIBAKI, running as the candidate
  of the multiethnic, united opposition group, the National Rainbow
  Coalition (NARC), defeated KANU candidate Uhuru KENYATTA and assumed
  the presidency following a campaign centered on an anticorruption
  platform. KIBAKI's NARC coalition splintered in 2005 over the
  constitutional review process. Government defectors joined with KANU
  to form a new opposition coalition, the Orange Democratic Movement,
  which defeated the government's draft constitution in a popular
  referendum in November 2005. KIBAKI's reelection in December 2007
  brought charges of vote rigging from ODM candidate Raila ODINGA and
  unleashed two months of violence in which as many as 1,500 people
  died. UN-sponsored talks in late February produced a powersharing
  accord bringing ODINGA into the government in the restored position
  of prime minister.

Kiribati
  The Gilbert Islands became a British protectorate in 1892
  and a colony in 1915; they were captured by the Japanese in the
  Pacific War in 1941. The islands of Makin and Tarawa were the sites
  of major US amphibious victories over entrenched Japanese garrisons
  in 1943. The Gilbert Islands were granted self-rule by the UK in
  1971 and complete independence in 1979 under the new name of
  Kiribati. The US relinquished all claims to the sparsely inhabited
  Phoenix and Line Island groups in a 1979 treaty of friendship with
  Kiribati.

Korea, North
  An independent kingdom for much of its long history,
  Korea was occupied by Japan in 1905 following the Russo-Japanese
  War. Five years later, Japan formally annexed the entire peninsula.
  Following World War II, Korea was split with the northern half
  coming under Soviet-sponsored Communist domination. After failing in
  the Korean War (1950-53) to conquer the US-backed Republic of Korea
  (ROK) in the southern portion by force, North Korea (DPRK), under
  its founder President KIM Il Sung, adopted a policy of ostensible
  diplomatic and economic "self-reliance" as a check against excessive
  Soviet or Communist Chinese influence. The DPRK demonized the US as
  the ultimate threat to its social system through state-funded
  propaganda, and molded political, economic, and military policies
  around the core ideological objective of eventual unification of
  Korea under Pyongyang's control. KIM's son, the current ruler KIM
  Jong Il, was officially designated as his father's successor in
  1980, assuming a growing political and managerial role until the
  elder KIM's death in 1994. After decades of economic mismanagement
  and resource misallocation, the DPRK since the mid-1990s has relied
  heavily on international aid to feed its population while continuing
  to expend resources to maintain an army of approximately 1 million.
  North Korea's history of regional military provocations,
  proliferation of military-related items, and long-range missile
  development - as well as its nuclear, chemical, and biological
  weapons programs and massive conventional armed forces - are of
  major concern to the international community. In December 2002,
  following revelations that the DPRK was pursuing a nuclear weapons
  program based on enriched uranium in violation of a 1994 agreement
  with the US to freeze and ultimately dismantle its existing
  plutonium-based program, North Korea expelled monitors from the
  International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). In January 2003, it
  declared its withdrawal from the international Non-Proliferation
  Treaty. In mid-2003 Pyongyang announced it had completed the
  reprocessing of spent nuclear fuel rods (to extract weapons-grade
  plutonium) and was developing a "nuclear deterrent." Beginning in
  August 2003, North Korea, China, Japan, Russia, South Korea, and the
  US have participated in the Six-Party Talks aimed at resolving the
  stalemate over the DPRK's nuclear programs. North Korea pulled out
  of the talks in November 2005. It test-fired ballistic missiles in
  July 2006 and conducted a nuclear test in October 2006. North Korea
  returned to the Six-Party Talks in December 2006 and subsequently
  signed two agreements on denuclearization. The 13 February 2007
  Initial Actions Agreement shut down the North's nuclear facilities
  at Yongbyon in July 2007. In the 3 October 2007 Second Phase Actions
  Agreement, Pyongyang pledged to disable those facilities and provide
  a correct and complete declaration of its nuclear programs. Under
  the supervision of US nuclear experts, North Korean personnel
  completed a number of agreed-upon disablement actions at the three
  core facilities at the Yongbyon nuclear complex by the end of 2007.
  North Korea also began the discharge of spent fuel rods in December
  2007, but it did not provide a declaration of its nuclear programs
  by the end of the year.

Korea, South
  An independent Korean state or collection of states has
  existed almost continuously for several millennia. Between its
  initial unification in the 7th century - from three predecessor
  Korean states - until the 20th century, Korea existed as a single
  independent country. In 1905, following the Russo-Japanese War,
  Korea became a protectorate of imperial Japan, and in 1910 it was
  annexed as a colony. Korea regained its independence following
  Japan's surrender to the United States in 1945. After World War II,
  a Republic of Korea (ROK) was set up in the southern half of the
  Korean Peninsula while a Communist-style government was installed in
  the north (the DPRK). During the Korean War (1950-53), US troops and
  UN forces fought alongside soldiers from the ROK to defend South
  Korea from DPRK attacks supported by China and the Soviet Union. An
  armistice was signed in 1953, splitting the peninsula along a
  demilitarized zone at about the 38th parallel. Thereafter, South
  Korea achieved rapid economic growth with per capita income rising
  to roughly 14 times the level of North Korea. In 1993, KIM Young-sam
  became South Korea's first civilian president following 32 years of
  military rule. South Korea today is a fully functioning modern
  democracy. In June 2000, a historic first North-South summit took
  place between the South's President KIM Dae-jung and the North's
  leader KIM Jong Il. In October 2007, a second North-South summit
  took place between the South's President ROH Moo-hyun and the North
  Korean leader.

Kosovo
  Serbs migrated to the territories of modern Kosovo in the 7th
  century but did not fully incorporate them into the Serbian realm
  until the early 13th century. The Serbian defeat at the Battle of
  Kosovo in 1389 led to five centuries of Ottoman rule during which
  large numbers of Turks and Albanians moved to Kosovo. By the end of
  the 19th century, Albanians replaced the Serbs as the dominant
  ethnic group in Kosovo. Serbia reacquired control over Kosovo from
  the Ottoman Empire during the First Balkan War (1912). After World
  War II (1945), the government of the Socialist Federal Republic of
  Yugoslavia led by Josip TITO reorganized Kosovo as an autonomous
  province within the constituent republic of Serbia. Over the next
  four decades, Kosovo Albanians lobbied for greater autonomy, and
  Kosovo was granted the status almost equal to that of a republic in
  the 1974 Yugoslav Constitution. Despite the legislative concessions,
  Albanian nationalism increased in the 1980s leading to nationalist
  riots and calls for Kosovo's independence. Serbs in Kosovo
  complained of mistreatment and Serb nationalist leaders, such as
  Slobodan MILOSEVIC, exploited those charges to win support among
  Serbian voters many of whom viewed Kosovo as their cultural
  heartland. Under MILOSEVIC's leadership, Serbia instituted a new
  constitution in 1989 that drastically curtailed Kosovo's autonomy.
  Kosovo Albanian leaders responded in 1991 by organizing a referendum
  that declared Kosovo independent from Serbia. The MILOSEVIC regime
  carried out repressive measures against the Albanians in the early
  1990s as the unofficial government of Kosovo, led by Ibrahim RUGOVA,
  tried to use passive resistance to gain international assistance and
  recognition of its demands for independence. In 1995, Albanians
  dissatisfied with RUGOVA's nonviolent strategy created the Kosovo
  Liberation Army and launched an insurgency. In 1998, MILOSEVIC
  authorized a counterinsurgency campaign that resulted in massacres
  and massive expulsions of ethnic Albanians by Serbian military,
  police, and paramilitary forces. The international community tried
  to resolve the conflict peacefully, but MILOSEVIC rejected the
  proposed international settlement - the Rambouillet Accords -
  leading to a three-month NATO bombing of Serbia beginning in March
  1999, which forced Serbia to withdraw its military and police forces
  from Kosovo in June 1999. UN Security Council Resolution 1244 (1999)
  placed Kosovo under a transitional administration, the UN Interim
  Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK), pending a determination of
  Kosovo's future status. Under the resolution, Serbia's territorial
  integrity was protected, but it was UNMIK that assumed
  responsibility for governing Kosovo. In 2001, UNMIK promulgated a
  Constitutional Framework, which established Kosovo's Provisional
  Institutions of Self-Government (PISG). In succeeding years UNMIK
  increasingly devolved responsibilities to the PISG. A UN-led process
  began in late 2005 to determine Kosovo's future status. Negotiations
  held intermittently between 2006 and 2007 on issues related to
  decentralization, religious heritage, and minority rights failed to
  yield a resolution between Serbia's willingness to grant a high
  degree of autonomy and the Albanians' call for full independence for
  Kosovo. On 17 February 2008, the Kosovo Assembly declared its
  independence from Serbia.

Kuwait
  Britain oversaw foreign relations and defense for the ruling
  Kuwaiti AL-SABAH dynasty from 1899 until independence in 1961.
  Kuwait was attacked and overrun by Iraq on 2 August 1990. Following
  several weeks of aerial bombardment, a US-led, UN coalition began a
  ground assault on 23 February 1991 that liberated Kuwait in four
  days. Kuwait spent more than $5 billion to repair oil infrastructure
  damaged during 1990-91. The AL-SABAH family has ruled since
  returning to power in 1991 and reestablished an elected legislature
  that in recent years has become increasingly assertive.

Kyrgyzstan
  A Central Asian country of incredible natural beauty and
  proud nomadic traditions, most of Kyrgyzstan was formally annexed to
  Russia in 1876. The Kyrgyz staged a major revolt against the Tsarist
  Empire in 1916 in which almost one-sixth of the Kyrgyz population
  was killed. Kyrgyzstan became a Soviet republic in 1936 and achieved
  independence in 1991 when the USSR dissolved. Nationwide
  demonstrations in the spring of 2005 resulted in the ouster of
  President Askar AKAYEV, who had run the country since 1990.
  Subsequent presidential elections in July 2005 were won
  overwhelmingly by former prime minister Kurmanbek BAKIEV. The
  political opposition organized demonstrations in Bishkek in April,
  May, and November 2006 resulting in the adoption of a new
  constitution that transferred some of the president's powers to
  parliament and the government. In December 2006, the Kyrgyz
  parliament voted to adopt new amendments, restoring some of the
  presidential powers lost in the November 2006 constitutional change.
  By late-September 2007, both previous versions of the constitution
  were declared illegal, and the country reverted to the AKAYEV-era
  2003 constitution, which was subsequently modified in a flawed
  referendum initiated by BAKIEV. The president then dissolved
  parliament, called for early elections, and gained control of the
  new parliament through his newly-created political party, Ak Jol, in
  December 2007 elections. Current concerns include: privatization of
  state-owned enterprises, negative trends in democracy and political
  freedoms, reduction of corruption, improving interethnic relations,
  and combating terrorism.

Laos
  Modern-day Laos has its roots in the ancient Lao kingdom of Lan
  Xang, established in the 14th Century under King FA NGUM. For 300
  years Lan Xang had influence reaching into present-day Cambodia and
  Thailand, as well as over all of what is now Laos. After centuries
  of gradual decline, Laos came under the domination of Siam
  (Thailand) from the late 18th century until the late 19th century
  when it became part of French Indochina. The Franco-Siamese Treaty
  of 1907 defined the current Lao border with Thailand. In 1975, the
  Communist Pathet Lao took control of the government ending a
  six-century-old monarchy and instituting a strict socialist regime
  closely aligned to Vietnam. A gradual return to private enterprise
  and the liberalization of foreign investment laws began in 1986.
  Laos became a member of ASEAN in 1997.

Latvia
  The name "Latvia" originates from the ancient Latgalians, one
  of four eastern Baltic tribes that formed the ethnic core of the
  Latvian people (ca. 8th-12th centuries A.D.). The region
  subsequently came under the control of Germans, Poles, Swedes, and
  finally, Russians. A Latvian republic emerged following World War I,
  but it was annexed by the USSR in 1940 - an action never recognized
  by the US and many other countries. Latvia reestablished its
  independence in 1991 following the breakup of the Soviet Union.
  Although the last Russian troops left in 1994, the status of the
  Russian minority (some 30% of the population) remains of concern to
  Moscow. Latvia joined both NATO and the EU in the spring of 2004.

Lebanon
  Following the capture of Syria from the Ottoman Empire by
  Anglo-French forces in 1918, France received a mandate over this
  territory and separated out the region of Lebanon in 1920. France
  granted this area independence in 1943. A lengthy civil war
  (1975-1990) devastated the country, but Lebanon has since made
  progress toward rebuilding its political institutions. Under the
  Ta'if Accord - the blueprint for national reconciliation - the
  Lebanese established a more equitable political system, particularly
  by giving Muslims a greater voice in the political process while
  institutionalizing sectarian divisions in the government. Since the
  end of the war, Lebanon has conducted several successful elections.
  Most militias have been disbanded, and the Lebanese Armed Forces
  (LAF) have extended authority over about two-thirds of the country.
  Hizballah, a radical Shia organization listed by the US State
  Department as a Foreign Terrorist Organization, retains its weapons.
  During Lebanon's civil war, the Arab League legitimized in the Ta'if
  Accord Syria's troop deployment, numbering about 16,000 based mainly
  east of Beirut and in the Bekaa Valley. Israel's withdrawal from
  southern Lebanon in May 2000 and the passage in October 2004 of
  UNSCR 1559 - a resolution calling for Syria to withdraw from Lebanon
  and end its interference in Lebanese affairs - encouraged some
  Lebanese groups to demand that Syria withdraw its forces as well.
  The assassination of former Prime Minister Rafiq HARIRI and 20
  others in February 2005 led to massive demonstrations in Beirut
  against the Syrian presence ("the Cedar Revolution"), and Syria
  withdrew the remainder of its military forces in April 2005. In
  May-June 2005, Lebanon held its first legislative elections since
  the end of the civil war free of foreign interference, handing a
  majority to the bloc led by Saad HARIRI, the slain prime minister's
  son. Lebanon continues to be plagued by violence - Hizballah
  kidnapped two Israeli soldiers in July 2006 leading to a 34-day
  conflict with Israel. The LAF in May-September 2007 battled Sunni
  extremist group Fatah al-Islam in the Nahr al-Barid Palestinian
  refugee camp; and the country has witnessed a string of politically
  motivated assassinations since the death of Rafiq HARIRI. Lebanese
  politicians in November 2007 were unable to agree on a successor to
  Emile LAHUD when he stepped down as president, creating a political
  vacuum until the election of Army Commander Michel SULAYMAN in May
  2008 and the formation of a new cabinet in July 2008.

Lesotho
  Basutoland was renamed the Kingdom of Lesotho upon
  independence from the UK in 1966. The Basuto National Party ruled
  for the first two decades. King MOSHOESHOE was exiled in 1990, but
  returned to Lesotho in 1992 and was reinstated in 1995.
  Constitutional government was restored in 1993 after seven years of
  military rule. In 1998, violent protests and a military mutiny
  following a contentious election prompted a brief but bloody
  intervention by South African and Botswanan military forces under
  the aegis of the Southern African Development Community. Subsequent
  constitutional reforms restored relative political stability.
  Peaceful parliamentary elections were held in 2002, but the National
  Assembly elections of February 2007 were hotly contested and
  aggrieved parties continue to periodically demonstrate their
  distrust of the results.

Liberia
  Settlement of freed slaves from the US in what is today
  Liberia began in 1822; by 1847, the Americo-Liberians were able to
  establish a republic. William TUBMAN, president from 1944-71, did
  much to promote foreign investment and to bridge the economic,
  social, and political gaps between the descendents of the original
  settlers and the inhabitants of the interior. In 1980, a military
  coup led by Samuel DOE ushered in a decade of authoritarian rule. In
  December 1989, Charles TAYLOR launched a rebellion against DOE's
  regime that led to a prolonged civil war in which DOE himself was
  killed. A period of relative peace in 1997 allowed for elections
  that brought TAYLOR to power, but major fighting resumed in 2000. An
  August 2003 peace agreement ended the war and prompted the
  resignation of former president Charles TAYLOR, who faces war crimes
  charges in The Hague related to his involvement in Sierra Leone's
  civil war. After two years of rule by a transitional government,
  democratic elections in late 2005 brought President Ellen JOHNSON
  SIRLEAF to power. The UN Mission in Liberia (UNMIL) maintains a
  strong presence throughout the country, but the security situation
  is still fragile and the process of rebuilding the social and
  economic structure of this war-torn country will take many years.

Libya
  The Italians supplanted the Ottoman Turks in the area around
  Tripoli in 1911 and did not relinquish their hold until 1943 when
  defeated in World War II. Libya then passed to UN administration and
  achieved independence in 1951. Following a 1969 military coup, Col.
  Muammar Abu Minyar al-QADHAFI began to espouse his own political
  system, the Third Universal Theory. The system is a combination of
  socialism and Islam derived in part from tribal practices and is
  supposed to be implemented by the Libyan people themselves in a
  unique form of "direct democracy." QADHAFI has always seen himself
  as a revolutionary and visionary leader. He used oil funds during
  the 1970s and 1980s to promote his ideology outside Libya,
  supporting subversives and terrorists abroad to hasten the end of
  Marxism and capitalism. In addition, beginning in 1973, he engaged
  in military operations in northern Chad's Aozou Strip - to gain
  access to minerals and to use as a base of influence in Chadian
  politics - but was forced to retreat in 1987. UN sanctions in 1992
  isolated QADHAFI politically following the downing of Pan AM Flight
  103 over Lockerbie, Scotland. During the 1990s, QADHAFI began to
  rebuild his relationships with Europe. UN sanctions were suspended
  in April 1999 and finally lifted in September 2003 after Libya
  accepted responsibility for the Lockerbie bombing. In December 2003,
  Libya announced that it had agreed to reveal and end its programs to
  develop weapons of mass destruction and to renounce terrorism.
  QADHAFI has made significant strides in normalizing relations with
  Western nations since then. He has received various Western European
  leaders as well as many working-level and commercial delegations,
  and made his first trip to Western Europe in 15 years when he
  traveled to Brussels in April 2004. Libya has responded in good
  faith to legal cases brought against it in US courts for terrorist
  acts that predate its renunciation of violence. Claims for
  compensation in the Lockerbie bombing, LaBelle disco bombing, and
  UTA 772 bombing cases are ongoing. The US rescinded Libya's
  designation as a state sponsor of terrorism in June 2006. In late
  2007, Libya was elected by the General Assembly to a nonpermanent
  seat on the United Nations Security Council for the 2008-09 term.

Liechtenstein
  The Principality of Liechtenstein was established
  within the Holy Roman Empire in 1719. Occupied by both French and
  Russian troops during the Napoleanic wars, it became a sovereign
  state in 1806 and joined the Germanic Confederation in 1815.
  Liechtenstein became fully independent in 1866 when the
  Confederation dissolved. Until the end of World War I, it was
  closely tied to Austria, but the economic devastation caused by that
  conflict forced Liechtenstein to enter into a customs and monetary
  union with Switzerland. Since World War II (in which Liechtenstein
  remained neutral), the country's low taxes have spurred outstanding
  economic growth. In 2000, shortcomings in banking regulatory
  oversight resulted in concerns about the use of financial
  institutions for money laundering. However, Liechtenstein
  implemented anti-money-laundering legislation and a Mutual Legal
  Assistance Treaty with the US went into effect in 2003.

Lithuania
  Lithuanian lands were united under MINDAUGAS in 1236; over
  the next century, through alliances and conquest, Lithuania extended
  its territory to include most of present-day Belarus and Ukraine. By
  the end of the 14th century Lithuania was the largest state in
  Europe. An alliance with Poland in 1386 led the two countries into a
  union through the person of a common ruler. In 1569, Lithuania and
  Poland formally united into a single dual state, the
  Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. This entity survived until 1795,
  when its remnants were partitioned by surrounding countries.
  Lithuania regained its independence following World War I but was
  annexed by the USSR in 1940 - an action never recognized by the US
  and many other countries. On 11 March 1990, Lithuania became the
  first of the Soviet republics to declare its independence, but
  Moscow did not recognize this proclamation until September of 1991
  (following the abortive coup in Moscow). The last Russian troops
  withdrew in 1993. Lithuania subsequently restructured its economy
  for integration into Western European institutions; it joined both
  NATO and the EU in the spring of 2004.

Luxembourg
  Founded in 963, Luxembourg became a grand duchy in 1815
  and an independent state under the Netherlands. It lost more than
  half of its territory to Belgium in 1839, but gained a larger
  measure of autonomy. Full independence was attained in 1867. Overrun
  by Germany in both World Wars, it ended its neutrality in 1948 when
  it entered into the Benelux Customs Union and when it joined NATO
  the following year. In 1957, Luxembourg became one of the six
  founding countries of the European Economic Community (later the
  European Union), and in 1999 it joined the euro currency area.

Macau
  Colonized by the Portuguese in the 16th century, Macau was the
  first European settlement in the Far East. Pursuant to an agreement
  signed by China and Portugal on 13 April 1987, Macau became the
  Macau Special Administrative Region (SAR) of China on 20 December
  1999. In this agreement, China promised that, under its "one
  country, two systems" formula, China's socialist economic system
  would not be practiced in Macau, and that Macau would enjoy a high
  degree of autonomy in all matters except foreign and defense affairs
  for the next 50 years.

Macedonia
  Macedonia gained its independence peacefully from
  Yugoslavia in 1991, but Greece's objection to the new state's use of
  what it considered a Hellenic name and symbols delayed international
  recognition, which occurred under the provisional designation of
  "the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia." In 1995, Greece lifted
  a 20-month trade embargo and the two countries agreed to normalize
  relations. The United States began referring to Macedonia by its
  constitutional name, Republic of Macedonia, in 2004 and negotiations
  continue between Greece and Macedonia to resolve the name issue.
  Some ethnic Albanians, angered by perceived political and economic
  inequities, launched an insurgency in 2001 that eventually won the
  support of the majority of Macedonia's Albanian population and led
  to the internationally-brokered Framework Agreement, which ended the
  fighting by establishing a set of new laws enhancing the rights of
  minorities. Fully implementating the Framework Agreement and
  stimulating economic growth and development continue to be
  challenges for Macedonia, although progress has been made on both
  fronts over the past several years.

Madagascar
  Formerly an independent kingdom, Madagascar became a
  French colony in 1896 but regained independence in 1960. During
  1992-93, free presidential and National Assembly elections were held
  ending 17 years of single-party rule. In 1997, in the second
  presidential race, Didier RATSIRAKA, the leader during the 1970s and
  1980s, was returned to the presidency. The 2001 presidential
  election was contested between the followers of Didier RATSIRAKA and
  Marc RAVALOMANANA, nearly causing secession of half of the country.
  In April 2002, the High Constitutional Court announced RAVALOMANANA
  the winner. RAVALOMANANA is now in his second term following a
  landslide victory in the generally free and fair presidential
  elections of 2006.

Malawi
  Established in 1891, the British protectorate of Nyasaland
  became the independent nation of Malawi in 1964. After three decades
  of one-party rule under President Hastings Kamuzu BANDA the country
  held multiparty elections in 1994, under a provisional constitution
  that came into full effect the following year. Current President
  Bingu wa MUTHARIKA, elected in May 2004 after a failed attempt by
  the previous president to amend the constitution to permit another
  term, struggled to assert his authority against his predecessor and
  subsequently started his own party, the Democratic Progressive Party
  (DPP) in 2005. As president, MUTHARIKA has overseen substantial
  economic improvement but because of political deadlock in the
  legislature, his minority party has been unable to pass significant
  legislation, and anti-corruption measures have stalled. Population
  growth, increasing pressure on agricultural lands, corruption, and
  the spread of HIV/AIDS pose major problems for Malawi.

Malaysia
  During the late 18th and 19th centuries, Great Britain
  established colonies and protectorates in the area of current
  Malaysia; these were occupied by Japan from 1942 to 1945. In 1948,
  the British-ruled territories on the Malay Peninsula formed the
  Federation of Malaya, which became independent in 1957. Malaysia was
  formed in 1963 when the former British colonies of Singapore and the
  East Malaysian states of Sabah and Sarawak on the northern coast of
  Borneo joined the Federation. The first several years of the
  country's history were marred by a Communist insurgency, Indonesian
  confrontation with Malaysia, Philippine claims to Sabah, and
  Singapore's secession from the Federation in 1965. During the
  22-year term of Prime Minister MAHATHIR bin Mohamad (1981-2003),
  Malaysia was successful in diversifying its economy from dependence
  on exports of raw materials to expansion in manufacturing, services,
  and tourism.

Maldives
  The Maldives was long a sultanate, first under Dutch and
  then under British protection. It became a republic in 1968, three
  years after independence. President Maumoon Abdul GAYOOM dominated
  the islands' political scene for 30 years, elected to six successive
  terms by single-party referendums. Following riots in the capital
  Male in August 2004, the president and his government pledged to
  embark upon democratic reforms including a more representative
  political system and expanded political freedoms. Progress was
  sluggish, however, and many promised reforms were slow to be
  realized. Nonetheless, political parties were legalized in 2005. In
  June 2008, a constituent assembly - termed the "Special Majlis" -
  finalized a new constitution, which was ratified by the president in
  August. The first-ever presidential elections under a
  multi-candidate, multi-party system were held in October 2008.
  GAYOOM was defeated in a runoff poll by Mohamed NASHEED, a political
  activist who had been jailed several years earlier by the former
  regime. Challenges facing the new president include strengthening
  democracy and combating poverty and drug abuse.

Mali
  The Sudanese Republic and Senegal became independent of France
  in 1960 as the Mali Federation. When Senegal withdrew after only a
  few months, what formerly made up the Sudanese Republic was renamed
  Mali. Rule by dictatorship was brought to a close in 1991 by a
  military coup - led by the current president Amadou TOURE - enabling
  Mali's emergence as one of the strongest democracies on the
  continent. President Alpha KONARE won Mali's first democratic
  presidential election in 1992 and was reelected in 1997. In keeping
  with Mali's two-term constitutional limit, KONARE stepped down in
  2002 and was succeeded by Amadou TOURE, who was subsequently elected
  to a second term in 2007. The elections were widely judged to be
  free and fair.

Malta
  Great Britain formally acquired possession of Malta in 1814.
  The island staunchly supported the UK through both World Wars and
  remained in the Commonwealth when it became independent in 1964. A
  decade later Malta became a republic. Since about the mid-1980s, the
  island has transformed itself into a freight transshipment point, a
  financial center, and a tourist destination. Malta became an EU
  member in May 2004 and began to use the euro as currency in 2008.

Marshall Islands
  After almost four decades under US administration
  as the easternmost part of the UN Trust Territory of the Pacific
  Islands, the Marshall Islands attained independence in 1986 under a
  Compact of Free Association. Compensation claims continue as a
  result of US nuclear testing on some of the atolls between 1947 and
  1962. The Marshall Islands hosts the US Army Kwajalein Atoll (USAKA)
  Reagan Missile Test Site, a key installation in the US missile
  defense network.

Mauritania
  Independent from France in 1960, Mauritania annexed the
  southern third of the former Spanish Sahara (now Western Sahara) in
  1976, but relinquished it after three years of raids by the
  Polisario guerrilla front seeking independence for the territory.
  Maaouya Ould Sid Ahmed TAYA seized power in a coup in 1984 and ruled
  Mauritania with a heavy hand for over two decades. A series of
  presidential elections that he held were widely seen as flawed. A
  bloodless coup in August 2005 deposed President TAYA and ushered in
  a military council that oversaw a transition to democratic rule.
  Independent candidate Sidi Ould Cheikh ABDALLAHI was inaugurated in
  April 2007 as Mauritania's first freely and fairly elected
  president. His term ended prematurely in August 2008 when a coup
  deposed him and ushered in a military council government. Meanwhile,
  the country continues to experience ethnic tensions among its black
  population (Afro-Mauritanians) and White and Black Moor
  (Arab-Berber) communities.

Mauritius
  Although known to Arab and Malay sailors as early as the
  10th century, Mauritius was first explored by the Portuguese in the
  16th century and subsequently settled by the Dutch - who named it in
  honor of Prince Maurits van NASSAU - in the 17th century. The French
  assumed control in 1715, developing the island into an important
  naval base overseeing Indian Ocean trade, and establishing a
  plantation economy of sugar cane. The British captured the island in
  1810, during the Napoleonic Wars. Mauritius remained a strategically
  important British naval base, and later an air station, playing an
  important role during World War II for anti-submarine and convoy
  operations, as well as the collection of signals intelligence.
  Independence from the UK was attained in 1968. A stable democracy
  with regular free elections and a positive human rights record, the
  country has attracted considerable foreign investment and has earned
  one of Africa's highest per capita incomes. Recent poor weather,
  declining sugar prices, and declining textile and apparel
  production, have slowed economic growth, leading to some protests
  over standards of living in the Creole community.

Mayotte
  Mayotte was ceded to France along with the other islands of
  the Comoros group in 1843. It was the only island in the archipelago
  that voted in 1974 to retain its link with France and forego
  independence.

Mexico
  The site of advanced Amerindian civilizations, Mexico came
  under Spanish rule for three centuries before achieving independence
  early in the 19th century. A devaluation of the peso in late 1994
  threw Mexico into economic turmoil, triggering the worst recession
  in over half a century. The nation continues to make an impressive
  recovery. Ongoing economic and social concerns include low real
  wages, underemployment for a large segment of the population,
  inequitable income distribution, and few advancement opportunities
  for the largely Amerindian population in the impoverished southern
  states. The elections held in 2000 marked the first time since the
  1910 Mexican Revolution that an opposition candidate - Vicente FOX
  of the National Action Party (PAN) - defeated the party in
  government, the Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI). He was
  succeeded in 2006 by another PAN candidate Felipe CALDERON.

Micronesia, Federated States of
  In 1979 the Federated States of
  Micronesia, a UN Trust Territory under US administration, adopted a
  constitution. In 1986 independence was attained under a Compact of
  Free Association with the US, which was amended and renewed in 2004.
  Present concerns include large-scale unemployment, overfishing, and
  overdependence on US aid.

Moldova
  Formerly part of Romania, Moldova was incorporated into the
  Soviet Union at the close of World War II. Although independent from
  the USSR since 1991, Russian forces have remained on Moldovan
  territory east of the Dniester River supporting the Slavic majority
  population, mostly Ukrainians and Russians, who have proclaimed a
  "Transnistria" republic. One of the poorest nations in Europe,
  Moldova became the first former Soviet state to elect a Communist as
  its president in 2001.

Monaco
  The Genoese built a fortress on the site of present-day
  Monaco in 1215. The current ruling Grimaldi family secured control
  in the late 13th century, and a principality was established in
  1338. Economic development was spurred in the late 19th century with
  a railroad linkup to France and the opening of a casino. Since then,
  the principality's mild climate, splendid scenery, and gambling
  facilities have made Monaco world famous as a tourist and recreation
  center.

Mongolia
  The Mongols gained fame in the 13th century when under
  Chinggis KHAN they conquered a huge Eurasian empire. After his death
  the empire was divided into several powerful Mongol states, but
  these broke apart in the 14th century. The Mongols eventually
  retired to their original steppe homelands and in the late 17th
  century came under Chinese rule. Mongolia won its independence in
  1921 with Soviet backing. A Communist regime was installed in 1924.
  Following a peaceful democratic revolution, the ex-Communist
  Mongolian People's Revolutionary Party (MPRP) won elections in 1990
  and 1992, but was defeated by the Democratic Union Coalition (DUC)
  in the 1996 parliamentary election. Since then, parliamentary
  elections returned the MPRP overwhelmingly to power in 2000, but
  2004 elections reduced MPRP representation and, therefore, its
  authority.

Montenegro
  The use of the name Montenegro began in the 15th century
  when the Crnojevic dynasty began to rule the Serbian principality of
  Zeta; over subsequent centuries Montenegro was able to maintain its
  independence from the Ottoman Empire. From the 16th to 19th
  centuries, Montenegro became a theocracy ruled by a series of bishop
  princes; in 1852, it was transformed into a secular principality.
  After World War I, Montenegro was absorbed by the Kingdom of Serbs,
  Croats, and Slovenes, which became the Kingdom of Yugoslavia in
  1929; at the conclusion of World War II, it became a constituent
  republic of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. When the
  latter dissolved in 1992, Montenegro federated with Serbia, first as
  the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and, after 2003, in a looser
  union of Serbia and Montenegro. In May 2006, Montenegro invoked its
  right under the Constitutional Charter of Serbia and Montenegro to
  hold a referendum on independence from the state union. The vote for
  severing ties with Serbia exceeded 55% - the threshold set by the EU
  - allowing Montenegro to formally declare its independence on 3 June
  2006.

Montserrat
  English and Irish colonists from St. Kitts first settled
  on Montserrat in 1632; the first African slaves arrived three
  decades later. The British and French fought for possession of the
  island for most of the 18th century, but it finally was confirmed as
  a British possession in 1783. The island's sugar plantation economy
  was converted to small farm landholdings in the mid 19th century.
  Much of this island was devastated and two-thirds of the population
  fled abroad because of the eruption of the Soufriere Hills Volcano
  that began on 18 July 1995. Montserrat has endured volcanic activity
  since, with the last eruption occurring in July 2003.

Morocco
  In 788, about a century after the Arab conquest of North
  Africa, successive Moorish dynasties began to rule in Morocco. In
  the 16th century, the Sa'adi monarchy, particularly under Ahmad
  AL-MANSUR (1578-1603), repelled foreign invaders and inaugurated a
  golden age. In 1860, Spain occupied northern Morocco and ushered in
  a half century of trade rivalry among European powers that saw
  Morocco's sovereignty steadily erode; in 1912, the French imposed a
  protectorate over the country. A protracted independence struggle
  with France ended successfully in 1956. The internationalized city
  of Tangier and most Spanish possessions were turned over to the new
  country that same year. Morocco virtually annexed Western Sahara
  during the late 1970s, but final resolution on the status of the
  territory remains unresolved. Gradual political reforms in the 1990s
  resulted in the establishment of a bicameral legislature, which
  first met in 1997. Improvements in human rights have occurred and
  there is a largely free press. Despite the continuing reforms,
  ultimate authority remains in the hands of the monarch.

Mozambique
  Almost five centuries as a Portuguese colony came to a
  close with independence in 1975. Large-scale emigration by whites,
  economic dependence on South Africa, a severe drought, and a
  prolonged civil war hindered the country's development until the mid
  1990's. The ruling Front for the Liberation of Mozambique (FRELIMO)
  party formally abandoned Marxism in 1989, and a new constitution the
  following year provided for multiparty elections and a free market
  economy. A UN-negotiated peace agreement between FRELIMO and rebel
  Mozambique National Resistance (RENAMO) forces ended the fighting in
  1992. In December 2004, Mozambique underwent a delicate transition
  as Joaquim CHISSANO stepped down after 18 years in office. His
  elected successor, Armando Emilio GUEBUZA, promised to continue the
  sound economic policies that have encouraged foreign investment.
  Mozambique has seen very strong economic growth since the end of the
  civil war largely due to post-conflict reconstruction.

Namibia
  South Africa occupied the German colony of South-West Africa
  during World War I and administered it as a mandate until after
  World War II, when it annexed the territory. In 1966 the Marxist
  South-West Africa People's Organization (SWAPO) guerrilla group
  launched a war of independence for the area that was soon named
  Namibia, but it was not until 1988 that South Africa agreed to end
  its administration in accordance with a UN peace plan for the entire
  region. Namibia has been governed by SWAPO since the country won
  independence in 1990. Hifikepunye POHAMBA was elected president in
  November 2004 in a landslide victory replacing Sam NUJOMA who led
  the country during its first 14 years of self rule.

Nauru
  The exact origins of the Nauruans are unclear, since their
  language does not resemble any other in the Pacific. The island was
  annexed by Germany in 1888 and its phosphate deposits began to be
  mined early in the 20th century by a German-British consortium.
  Nauru was occupied by Australian forces in World War I and
  subsequently became a League of Nations mandate. After the Second
  World War - and a brutal occupation by Japan - Nauru became a UN
  trust territory. It achieved its independence in 1968 and joined the
  UN in 1999 as the world's smallest independent republic.

Navassa Island
  This uninhabited island was claimed by the US in 1857
  for its guano. Mining took place between 1865 and 1898. The
  lighthouse, built in 1917, was shut down in 1996 and administration
  of Navassa Island transferred from the Coast Guard to the Department
  of the Interior. A 1998 scientific expedition to the island
  described it as a unique preserve of Caribbean biodiversity; the
  following year it became a National Wildlife Refuge and annual
  scientific expeditions have continued.

Nepal
  In 1951, the Nepalese monarch ended the century-old system of
  rule by hereditary premiers and instituted a cabinet system of
  government. Reforms in 1990 established a multiparty democracy
  within the framework of a constitutional monarchy. An insurgency led
  by Maoist extremists broke out in 1996. The ensuing nine-year civil
  war between insurgents and government forces witnessed the
  dissolution of the cabinet and parliament and assumption of absolute
  power by the king. Several weeks of mass protests in April 2006 were
  followed by several months of peace negotiations between the Maoists
  and government officials, and culminated in a November 2006 peace
  accord and the promulgation of an interim constitution. The newly
  formed interim parliament declared Nepal a democratic federal
  republic at its first meeting in May 2008, the king vacated the
  throne in mid-June 2008, and parliament elected the country's first
  president the following month.

Netherlands
  The Dutch United Provinces declared their independence
  from Spain in 1579; during the 17th century, they became a leading
  seafaring and commercial power, with settlements and colonies around
  the world. After a 20-year French occupation, a Kingdom of the
  Netherlands was formed in 1815. In 1830 Belgium seceded and formed a
  separate kingdom. The Netherlands remained neutral in World War I,
  but suffered invasion and occupation by Germany in World War II. A
  modern, industrialized nation, the Netherlands is also a large
  exporter of agricultural products. The country was a founding member
  of NATO and the EEC (now the EU), and participated in the
  introduction of the euro in 1999.

Netherlands Antilles
  Once the center of the Caribbean slave trade,
  the island of Curacao was hard hit by the abolition of slavery in
  1863. Its prosperity (and that of neighboring Aruba) was restored in
  the early 20th century with the construction of oil refineries to
  service the newly discovered Venezuelan oil fields. The island of
  Saint Martin is shared with France; its southern portion is named
  Sint Maarten and is part of the Netherlands Antilles; its northern
  portion, called Saint Martin, is an overseas collectivity of France.

New Caledonia
  Settled by both Britain and France during the first
  half of the 19th century, the island was made a French possession in
  1853. It served as a penal colony for four decades after 1864.
  Agitation for independence during the 1980s and early 1990s ended in
  the 1998 Noumea Accord, which over a period of 15 to 20 years will
  transfer an increasing amount of governing responsibility from
  France to New Caledonia. The agreement also commits France to
  conduct as many as three referenda between 2013 and 2018, to decide
  whether New Caledonia should assume full sovereignty and
  independence.

New Zealand
  The Polynesian Maori reached New Zealand in about A.D.
  800. In 1840, their chieftains entered into a compact with Britain,
  the Treaty of Waitangi, in which they ceded sovereignty to Queen
  Victoria while retaining territorial rights. In that same year, the
  British began the first organized colonial settlement. A series of
  land wars between 1843 and 1872 ended with the defeat of the native
  peoples. The British colony of New Zealand became an independent
  dominion in 1907 and supported the UK militarily in both World Wars.
  New Zealand's full participation in a number of defense alliances
  lapsed by the 1980s. In recent years, the government has sought to
  address longstanding Maori grievances.

Nicaragua
  The Pacific coast of Nicaragua was settled as a Spanish
  colony from Panama in the early 16th century. Independence from
  Spain was declared in 1821 and the country became an independent
  republic in 1838. Britain occupied the Caribbean Coast in the first
  half of the 19th century, but gradually ceded control of the region
  in subsequent decades. Violent opposition to governmental
  manipulation and corruption spread to all classes by 1978 and
  resulted in a short-lived civil war that brought the Marxist
  Sandinista guerrillas to power in 1979. Nicaraguan aid to leftist
  rebels in El Salvador caused the US to sponsor anti-Sandinista
  contra guerrillas through much of the 1980s. Free elections in 1990,
  1996, and 2001, saw the Sandinistas defeated, but voting in 2006
  announced the return of former Sandinista President Daniel ORTEGA
  Saavedra. Nicaragua's infrastructure and economy - hard hit by the
  earlier civil war and by Hurricane Mitch in 1998 - are slowly being
  rebuilt.

Niger
  Niger became independent from France in 1960 and experienced
  single-party and military rule until 1991, when Gen. Ali SAIBOU was
  forced by public pressure to allow multiparty elections, which
  resulted in a democratic government in 1993. Political infighting
  brought the government to a standstill and in 1996 led to a coup by
  Col. Ibrahim BARE. In 1999 BARE was killed in a coup by military
  officers who promptly restored democratic rule and held elections
  that brought Mamadou TANDJA to power in December of that year.
  TANDJA was reelected in 2004. Niger is one of the poorest countries
  in the world with minimal government services and insufficient funds
  to develop its resource base. The largely agrarian and
  subsistence-based economy is frequently disrupted by extended
  droughts common to the Sahel region of Africa. A predominately
  Tuareg ethnic group emerged in February 2007, the Nigerien Movement
  for Justice (MNJ), and attacked several military targets in Niger's
  northern region throughout 2007. Events have since evolved into a
  budding insurrection.

Nigeria
  British influence and control over what would become Nigeria
  grew through the 19th century. A series of constitutions after World
  War II granted Nigeria greater autonomy; independence came in 1960.
  Following nearly 16 years of military rule, a new constitution was
  adopted in 1999, and a peaceful transition to civilian government
  was completed. The government continues to face the daunting task of
  reforming a petroleum-based economy, whose revenues have been
  squandered through corruption and mismanagement, and
  institutionalizing democracy. In addition, Nigeria continues to
  experience longstanding ethnic and religious tensions. Although both
  the 2003 and 2007 presidential elections were marred by significant
  irregularities and violence, Nigeria is currently experiencing its
  longest period of civilian rule since independence. The general
  elections of April 2007 marked the first civilian-to-civilian
  transfer of power in the country's history.

Niue
  Niue's remoteness, as well as cultural and linguistic
  differences between its Polynesian inhabitants and those of the rest
  of the Cook Islands, have caused it to be separately administered.
  The population of the island continues to drop (from a peak of 5,200
  in 1966 to an estimated 1,444 in 2008), with substantial emigration
  to New Zealand, 2,400 km to the southwest.

Norfolk Island
  Two British attempts at establishing the island as a
  penal colony (1788-1814 and 1825-55) were ultimately abandoned. In
  1856, the island was resettled by Pitcairn Islanders, descendants of
  the Bounty mutineers and their Tahitian companions.

Northern Mariana Islands
  Under US administration as part of the UN
  Trust Territory of the Pacific, the people of the Northern Mariana
  Islands decided in the 1970s not to seek independence but instead to
  forge closer links with the US. Negotiations for territorial status
  began in 1972. A covenant to establish a commonwealth in political
  union with the US was approved in 1975, and came into force on 24
  March 1976. A new government and constitution went into effect in
  1978.

Norway
  Two centuries of Viking raids into Europe tapered off
  following the adoption of Christianity by King Olav TRYGGVASON in
  994. Conversion of the Norwegian kingdom occurred over the next
  several decades. In 1397, Norway was absorbed into a union with
  Denmark that lasted more than four centuries. In 1814, Norwegians
  resisted the cession of their country to Sweden and adopted a new
  constitution. Sweden then invaded Norway but agreed to let Norway
  keep its constitution in return for accepting the union under a
  Swedish king. Rising nationalism throughout the 19th century led to
  a 1905 referendum granting Norway independence. Although Norway
  remained neutral in World War I, it suffered heavy losses to its
  shipping. Norway proclaimed its neutrality at the outset of World
  War II, but was nonetheless occupied for five years by Nazi Germany
  (1940-45). In 1949, neutrality was abandoned and Norway became a
  member of NATO. Discovery of oil and gas in adjacent waters in the
  late 1960s boosted Norway's economic fortunes. The current focus is
  on containing spending on the extensive welfare system and planning
  for the time when petroleum reserves are depleted. In referenda held
  in 1972 and 1994, Norway rejected joining the EU.

Oman
  The inhabitants of the area of Oman have long prospered on
  Indian Ocean trade. In the late 18th century, a newly established
  sultanate in Muscat signed the first in a series of friendship
  treaties with Britain. Over time, Oman's dependence on British
  political and military advisors increased, but it never became a
  British colony. In 1970, QABOOS bin Said al-Said overthrew the
  restrictive rule of his father; he has ruled as sultan ever since.
  His extensive modernization program has opened the country to the
  outside world while preserving the longstanding close ties with the
  UK. Oman's moderate, independent foreign policy has sought to
  maintain good relations with all Middle Eastern countries.

Pacific Ocean
  The Pacific Ocean is the largest of the world's five
  oceans (followed by the Atlantic Ocean, Indian Ocean, Southern
  Ocean, and Arctic Ocean). Strategically important access waterways
  include the La Perouse, Tsugaru, Tsushima, Taiwan, Singapore, and
  Torres Straits. The decision by the International Hydrographic
  Organization in the spring of 2000 to delimit a fifth ocean, the
  Southern Ocean, removed the portion of the Pacific Ocean south of 60
  degrees south.

Pakistan
  The Indus Valley civilization, one of the oldest in the
  world and dating back at least 5,000 years, spread over much of what
  is presently Pakistan. During the second millennium B.C., remnants
  of this culture fused with the migrating Indo-Aryan peoples. The
  area underwent successive invasions in subsequent centuries from the
  Persians, Greeks, Scythians, Arabs (who brought Islam), Afghans, and
  Turks. The Mughal Empire flourished in the 16th and 17th centuries;
  the British came to dominate the region in the 18th century. The
  separation in 1947 of British India into the Muslim state of
  Pakistan (with West and East sections) and largely Hindu India was
  never satisfactorily resolved, and India and Pakistan fought two
  wars - in 1947-48 and 1965 - over the disputed Kashmir territory. A
  third war between these countries in 1971 - in which India
  capitalized on Islamabad's marginalization of Bengalis in Pakistani
  politics - resulted in East Pakistan becoming the separate nation of
  Bangladesh. In response to Indian nuclear weapons testing, Pakistan
  conducted its own tests in 1998. The dispute over the state of
  Kashmir is ongoing, but discussions and confidence-building measures
  have led to decreased tensions since 2002. Mounting public
  dissatisfaction with President MUSHARRAF, coupled with the
  assassination of the prominent and popular political leader, Benazir
  BHUTTO, in late 2007, and MUSHARRAF?s resignation in August 2008,
  led to the September presidential election of Asif ZARDARI, BHUTTO?s
  widower. Pakistani government and military leaders are struggling to
  control Islamist militants, many of whom are located in the tribal
  areas adjacent to the border with Afghanistan. The Pakistani
  government is also faced with a deteriorating economy as foreign
  exchange reserves decline, the currency depreciates, and the current
  account deficit widens.

Palau
  After three decades as part of the UN Trust Territory of the
  Pacific under US administration, this westernmost cluster of the
  Caroline Islands opted for independence in 1978 rather than join the
  Federated States of Micronesia. A Compact of Free Association with
  the US was approved in 1986, but not ratified until 1993. It entered
  into force the following year, when the islands gained independence.

Panama
  Explored and settled by the Spanish in the 16th century,
  Panama broke with Spain in 1821 and joined a union of Colombia,
  Ecuador, and Venezuela - named the Republic of Gran Colombia. When
  the latter dissolved in 1830, Panama remained part of Colombia. With
  US backing, Panama seceded from Colombia in 1903 and promptly signed
  a treaty with the US allowing for the construction of a canal and US
  sovereignty over a strip of land on either side of the structure
  (the Panama Canal Zone). The Panama Canal was built by the US Army
  Corps of Engineers between 1904 and 1914. In 1977, an agreement was
  signed for the complete transfer of the Canal from the US to Panama
  by the end of the century. Certain portions of the Zone and
  increasing responsibility over the Canal were turned over in the
  subsequent decades. With US help, dictator Manuel NORIEGA was
  deposed in 1989. The entire Panama Canal, the area supporting the
  Canal, and remaining US military bases were transferred to Panama by
  the end of 1999. In October 2006, Panamanians approved an ambitious
  plan to expand the Canal. The project, which began in 2007 and could
  double the Canal's capacity, is expected to be completed in 2014-15.

Papua New Guinea
  The eastern half of the island of New Guinea -
  second largest in the world - was divided between Germany (north)
  and the UK (south) in 1885. The latter area was transferred to
  Australia in 1902, which occupied the northern portion during World
  War I and continued to administer the combined areas until
  independence in 1975. A nine-year secessionist revolt on the island
  of Bougainville ended in 1997 after claiming some 20,000 lives.

Paracel Islands
  The Paracel Islands are surrounded by productive
  fishing grounds and by potential oil and gas reserves. In 1932,
  French Indochina annexed the islands and set up a weather station on
  Pattle Island; maintenance was continued by its successor, Vietnam.
  China has occupied the Paracel Islands since 1974, when its troops
  seized a South Vietnamese garrison occupying the western islands.
  China built a military installation on Mischief Reef in 1999. The
  islands are claimed by Taiwan and Vietnam.

Paraguay
  In the disastrous War of the Triple Alliance (1865-70) -
  between Paraguay and Argentina, Brazil, and Uruguay - Paraguay lost
  two-thirds of all adult males and much of its territory. It
  stagnated economically for the next half century. In the Chaco War
  of 1932-35, Paraguay won large, economically important areas from
  Bolivia. The 35-year military dictatorship of Alfredo STROESSNER
  ended in 1989, and, despite a marked increase in political
  infighting in recent years, Paraguay has held relatively free and
  regular presidential elections since then.

Peru
  Ancient Peru was the seat of several prominent Andean
  civilizations, most notably that of the Incas whose empire was
  captured by the Spanish conquistadors in 1533. Peruvian independence
  was declared in 1821, and remaining Spanish forces defeated in 1824.
  After a dozen years of military rule, Peru returned to democratic
  leadership in 1980, but experienced economic problems and the growth
  of a violent insurgency. President Alberto FUJIMORI's election in
  1990 ushered in a decade that saw a dramatic turnaround in the
  economy and significant progress in curtailing guerrilla activity.
  Nevertheless, the president's increasing reliance on authoritarian
  measures and an economic slump in the late 1990s generated mounting
  dissatisfaction with his regime, which led to his ouster in 2000. A
  caretaker government oversaw new elections in the spring of 2001,
  which ushered in Alejandro TOLEDO as the new head of government -
  Peru's first democratically elected president of Native American
  ethnicity. The presidential election of 2006 saw the return of Alan
  GARCIA who, after a disappointing presidential term from 1985 to
  1990, returned to the presidency with promises to improve social
  conditions and maintain fiscal responsibility.

Philippines
  The Philippine Islands became a Spanish colony during
  the 16th century; they were ceded to the US in 1898 following the
  Spanish-American War. In 1935 the Philippines became a
  self-governing commonwealth. Manuel QUEZON was elected president and
  was tasked with preparing the country for independence after a
  10-year transition. In 1942 the islands fell under Japanese
  occupation during World War II, and US forces and Filipinos fought
  together during 1944-45 to regain control. On 4 July 1946 the
  Republic of the Philippines attained its independence. The 20-year
  rule of Ferdinand MARCOS ended in 1986, when a "people power"
  movement in Manila ("EDSA 1") forced him into exile and installed
  Corazon AQUINO as president. Her presidency was hampered by several
  coup attempts, which prevented a return to full political stability
  and economic development. Fidel RAMOS was elected president in 1992
  and his administration was marked by greater stability and progress
  on economic reforms. In 1992, the US closed its last military bases
  on the islands. Joseph ESTRADA was elected president in 1998, but
  was succeeded by his vice-president, Gloria MACAPAGAL-ARROYO, in
  January 2001 after ESTRADA's stormy impeachment trial on corruption
  charges broke down and another "people power" movement ("EDSA 2")
  demanded his resignation. MACAPAGAL-ARROYO was elected to a six-year
  term as president in May 2004. The Philippine Government faces
  threats from three terrorist groups on the US Government's Foreign
  Terrorist Organization list, but in 2006 and 2007 scored some major
  successes in capturing or killing key wanted terrorists. Decades of
  Muslim insurgency in the southern Philippines have led to a peace
  accord with one group and an ongoing cease-fire and peace talks with
  another.

Pitcairn Islands
  Pitcairn Island was discovered in 1767 by the
  British and settled in 1790 by the Bounty mutineers and their
  Tahitian companions. Pitcairn was the first Pacific island to become
  a British colony (in 1838) and today remains the last vestige of
  that empire in the South Pacific. Outmigration, primarily to New
  Zealand, has thinned the population from a peak of 233 in 1937 to
  less than 50 today.

Poland
  Poland is an ancient nation that was conceived near the
  middle of the 10th century. Its golden age occurred in the 16th
  century. During the following century, the strengthening of the
  gentry and internal disorders weakened the nation. In a series of
  agreements between 1772 and 1795, Russia, Prussia, and Austria
  partitioned Poland amongst themselves. Poland regained its
  independence in 1918 only to be overrun by Germany and the Soviet
  Union in World War II. It became a Soviet satellite state following
  the war, but its government was comparatively tolerant and
  progressive. Labor turmoil in 1980 led to the formation of the
  independent trade union "Solidarity" that over time became a
  political force and by 1990 had swept parliamentary elections and
  the presidency. A "shock therapy" program during the early 1990s
  enabled the country to transform its economy into one of the most
  robust in Central Europe, but Poland still faces the lingering
  challenges of high unemployment, underdeveloped and dilapidated
  infrastructure, and a poor rural underclass. Solidarity suffered a
  major defeat in the 2001 parliamentary elections when it failed to
  elect a single deputy to the lower house of Parliament, and the new
  leaders of the Solidarity Trade Union subsequently pledged to reduce
  the Trade Union's political role. Poland joined NATO in 1999 and the
  European Union in 2004. With its transformation to a democratic,
  market-oriented country largely completed, Poland is an increasingly
  active member of Euro-Atlantic organizations.

Portugal
  Following its heyday as a world power during the 15th and
  16th centuries, Portugal lost much of its wealth and status with the
  destruction of Lisbon in a 1755 earthquake, occupation during the
  Napoleonic Wars, and the independence in 1822 of Brazil as a colony.
  A 1910 revolution deposed the monarchy; for most of the next six
  decades, repressive governments ran the country. In 1974, a
  left-wing military coup installed broad democratic reforms. The
  following year, Portugal granted independence to all of its African
  colonies. Portugal is a founding member of NATO and entered the EC
  (now the EU) in 1986.

Puerto Rico
  Populated for centuries by aboriginal peoples, the
  island was claimed by the Spanish Crown in 1493 following COLUMBUS'
  second voyage to the Americas. In 1898, after 400 years of colonial
  rule that saw the indigenous population nearly exterminated and
  African slave labor introduced, Puerto Rico was ceded to the US as a
  result of the Spanish-American War. Puerto Ricans were granted US
  citizenship in 1917. Popularly-elected governors have served since
  1948. In 1952, a constitution was enacted providing for internal
  self government. In plebiscites held in 1967, 1993, and 1998, voters
  chose not to alter the existing political status.

Qatar
  Ruled by the Al-Thani family since the mid-1800s, Qatar
  transformed itself from a poor British protectorate noted mainly for
  pearling into an independent state with significant oil and natural
  gas revenues. During the late 1980s and early 1990s, the Qatari
  economy was crippled by a continuous siphoning off of petroleum
  revenues by the Amir, who had ruled the country since 1972. His son,
  the current Amir HAMAD bin Khalifa Al-Thani, overthrew him in a
  bloodless coup in 1995. In 2001, Qatar resolved its longstanding
  border disputes with both Bahrain and Saudi Arabia. As of 2007, oil
  and natural gas revenues had enabled Qatar to attain the highest per
  capita income in the world.

Romania
  The principalities of Wallachia and Moldavia - for centuries
  under the suzerainty of the Turkish Ottoman Empire - secured their
  autonomy in 1856; they united in 1859 and a few years later adopted
  the new name of Romania. The country gained recognition of its
  independence in 1878. It joined the Allied Powers in World War I and
  acquired new territories - most notably Transylvania - following the
  conflict. In 1940, Romania allied with the Axis powers and
  participated in the 1941 German invasion of the USSR. Three years
  later, overrun by the Soviets, Romania signed an armistice. The
  post-war Soviet occupation led to the formation of a Communist
  "people's republic" in 1947 and the abdication of the king. The
  decades-long rule of dictator Nicolae CEAUSESCU, who took power in
  1965, and his Securitate police state became increasingly oppressive
  and draconian through the 1980s. CEAUSESCU was overthrown and
  executed in late 1989. Former Communists dominated the government
  until 1996 when they were swept from power. Romania joined NATO in
  2004 and the EU in 2007.

Russia
  Founded in the 12th century, the Principality of Muscovy, was
  able to emerge from over 200 years of Mongol domination (13th-15th
  centuries) and to gradually conquer and absorb surrounding
  principalities. In the early 17th century, a new Romanov Dynasty
  continued this policy of expansion across Siberia to the Pacific.
  Under PETER I (ruled 1682-1725), hegemony was extended to the Baltic
  Sea and the country was renamed the Russian Empire. During the 19th
  century, more territorial acquisitions were made in Europe and Asia.
  Defeat in the Russo-Japanese War of 1904-05 contributed to the
  Revolution of 1905, which resulted in the formation of a parliament
  and other reforms. Repeated devastating defeats of the Russian army
  in World War I led to widespread rioting in the major cities of the
  Russian Empire and to the overthrow in 1917 of the imperial
  household. The Communists under Vladimir LENIN seized power soon
  after and formed the USSR. The brutal rule of Iosif STALIN (1928-53)
  strengthened Communist rule and Russian dominance of the Soviet
  Union at a cost of tens of millions of lives. The Soviet economy and
  society stagnated in the following decades until General Secretary
  Mikhail GORBACHEV (1985-91) introduced glasnost (openness) and
  perestroika (restructuring) in an attempt to modernize Communism,
  but his initiatives inadvertently released forces that by December
  1991 splintered the USSR into Russia and 14 other independent
  republics. Since then, Russia has shifted its post-Soviet democratic
  ambitions in favor of a centralized semi-authoritarian state whose
  legitimacy is buttressed, in part, by carefully managed national
  elections, former President PUTIN's genuine popularity, and the
  prudent management of Russia's windfall energy wealth. Russia has
  severely disabled a Chechen rebel movement, although violence still
  occurs throughout the North Caucasus.

Rwanda
  In 1959, three years before independence from Belgium, the
  majority ethnic group, the Hutus, overthrew the ruling Tutsi king.
  Over the next several years, thousands of Tutsis were killed, and
  some 150,000 driven into exile in neighboring countries. The
  children of these exiles later formed a rebel group, the Rwandan
  Patriotic Front (RPF), and began a civil war in 1990. The war, along
  with several political and economic upheavals, exacerbated ethnic
  tensions, culminating in April 1994 in the genocide of roughly
  800,000 Tutsis and moderate Hutus. The Tutsi rebels defeated the
  Hutu regime and ended the killing in July 1994, but approximately 2
  million Hutu refugees - many fearing Tutsi retribution - fled to
  neighboring Burundi, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zaire. Since then, most
  of the refugees have returned to Rwanda, but several thousand
  remained in the neighboring Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC;
  the former Zaire) and formed an extremist insurgency bent on
  retaking Rwanda, much as the RPF tried in 1990. Despite substantial
  international assistance and political reforms - including Rwanda's
  first local elections in March 1999 and its first post-genocide
  presidential and legislative elections in August and September 2003
  - the country continues to struggle to boost investment and
  agricultural output, and ethnic reconciliation is complicated by the
  real and perceived Tutsi political dominance. Kigali's increasing
  centralization and intolerance of dissent, the nagging Hutu
  extremist insurgency across the border, and Rwandan involvement in
  two wars in recent years in the neighboring DRC continue to hinder
  Rwanda's efforts to escape its bloody legacy.

Saint Barthelemy
  Discovered in 1493 by Christopher COLUMBUS who
  named it for his brother Bartolomeo, St. Barthelemy was first
  settled by the French in 1648. In 1784, the French sold the island
  to Sweden, who renamed the largest town Gustavia, after the Swedish
  King GUSTAV III, and made it a free port; the island prospered as a
  trade and supply center during the colonial wars of the 18th
  century. France repurchased the island in 1878 and placed it under
  the administration of Guadeloupe. St. Barthelemy retained its free
  port status along with various Swedish appelations such as Swedish
  street and town names, and the three-crown symbol on the coat of
  arms. In 2003, the populace of the island voted to secede from
  Guadeloupe and in 2007, the island became a French overseas
  collectivity.

Saint Helena
  Saint Helena is a British Overseas Territory consisting
  of Saint Helena and Ascension Islands, and the island group of
  Tristan da Cunha.
  Saint Helena: Uninhabited when first discovered by the Portuguese in
  1502, Saint Helena was garrisoned by the British during the 17th
  century. It acquired fame as the place of Napoleon BONAPARTE's
  exile, from 1815 until his death in 1821, but its importance as a
  port of call declined after the opening of the Suez Canal in 1869.
  During the Anglo-Boer War in South Africa, several thousand Boer
  prisoners were confined on the island between 1900 and 1903.
  Ascension Island: This barren and uninhabited island was discovered
  and named by the Portuguese in 1503. The British garrisoned the
  island in 1815 to prevent a rescue of Napoleon from Saint Helena and
  it served as a provisioning station for the Royal Navy's West Africa
  Squadron on anti-slavery patrol. The island remained under Admiralty
  control until 1922, when it became a dependency of Saint Helena.
  During World War II, the UK permitted the US to construct an
  airfield on Ascension in support of trans-Atlantic flights to Africa
  and anti-submarine operations in the South Atlantic. In the 1960s
  the island became an important space tracking station for the US. In
  1982, Ascension was an essential staging area for British forces
  during the Falklands War, and it remains a critical refueling point
  in the air-bridge from the UK to the South Atlantic.
  Tristan da Cunha: The island group consists of the islands of
  Tristan da Cunha, Nightingale, Inaccessible, and Gough. Tristan da
  Cunha is named after its Portuguese discoverer (1506); it was
  garrisoned by the British in 1816 to prevent any attempt to rescue
  Napoleon from Saint Helena. Gough and Inaccessible Islands have been
  designated World Heritage Sites. South Africa leases a site for a
  meteorological station on Gough Island.

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  First settled by the British in 1623, the
  islands became an associated state with full internal autonomy in
  1967. The island of Anguilla rebelled and was allowed to secede in
  1971. Saint Kitts and Nevis achieved independence in 1983. In 1998,
  a vote in Nevis on a referendum to separate from Saint Kitts fell
  short of the two-thirds majority needed. Nevis continues in its
  efforts to try and separate from Saint Kitts.

Saint Lucia
  The island, with its fine natural harbor at Castries,
  was contested between England and France throughout the 17th and
  early 18th centuries (changing possession 14 times); it was finally
  ceded to the UK in 1814. Even after the abolition of slavery on its
  plantations in 1834, Saint Lucia remained an agricultural island,
  dedicated to producing tropical commodity crops. Self-government was
  granted in 1967 and independence in 1979.

Saint Martin
  Although sighted by Christopher COLUMBUS in 1493 and
  claimed for Spain, it was the Dutch who occupied the island in 1631
  and set about exploiting its salt deposits. The Spanish retook the
  island in 1633, but continued to be harassed by the Dutch. The
  Spanish finally relinquished St. Martin to the French and Dutch, who
  divided it amongst themselves in 1648. The cultivation of sugar cane
  introduced slavery to the island in the late 18th century; the
  practice was not abolished until 1848. The island became a free port
  in 1939; the tourism industry was dramatically expanded during the
  1970s and 1980s. In 2003, the populace of St. Martin voted to secede
  from Guadeloupe and in 2007, the northern portion of the island
  became a French overseas collectivity.

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  First settled by the French in the early
  17th century, the islands represent the sole remaining vestige of
  France's once vast North American possessions.

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  Resistance by native Caribs
  prevented colonization on St. Vincent until 1719. Disputed between
  France and the United Kingdom for most of the 18th century, the
  island was ceded to the latter in 1783. Between 1960 and 1962, Saint
  Vincent and the Grenadines was a separate administrative unit of the
  Federation of the West Indies. Autonomy was granted in 1969 and
  independence in 1979.

Samoa
  New Zealand occupied the German protectorate of Western Samoa
  at the outbreak of World War I in 1914. It continued to administer
  the islands as a mandate and then as a trust territory until 1962,
  when the islands became the first Polynesian nation to reestablish
  independence in the 20th century. The country dropped the "Western"
  from its name in 1997.

San Marino
  The third smallest state in Europe (after the Holy See
  and Monaco), San Marino also claims to be the world's oldest
  republic. According to tradition, it was founded by a Christian
  stonemason named Marinus in A.D. 301. San Marino's foreign policy is
  aligned with that of Italy; social and political trends in the
  republic also track closely with those of its larger neighbor.

Sao Tome and Principe
  Discovered and claimed by Portugal in the late
  15th century, the islands' sugar-based economy gave way to coffee
  and cocoa in the 19th century - all grown with plantation slave
  labor, a form of which lingered into the 20th century. While
  independence was achieved in 1975, democratic reforms were not
  instituted until the late 1980s. The country held its first free
  elections in 1991, but frequent internal wrangling between the
  various political parties precipitated repeated changes in
  leadership and two failed coup attempts in 1995 and 2003. The recent
  discovery of oil in the Gulf of Guinea promises to attract increased
  attention to the small island nation.

Saudi Arabia
  Saudi Arabia is the birthplace of Islam and home to
  Islam's two holiest shrines in Mecca and Medina. The king's official
  title is the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques. The modern Saudi
  state was founded in 1932 by ABD AL-AZIZ bin Abd al-Rahman AL SAUD
  (Ibn Saud) after a 30-year campaign to unify most of the Arabian
  Peninsula. A male descendent of Ibn Saud, his son ABDALLAH bin Abd
  al-Aziz, rules the country today as required by the country's 1992
  Basic Law. Following Iraq's invasion of Kuwait in 1990, Saudi Arabia
  accepted the Kuwaiti royal family and 400,000 refugees while
  allowing Western and Arab troops to deploy on its soil for the
  liberation of Kuwait the following year. The continuing presence of
  foreign troops on Saudi soil after the liberation of Kuwait became a
  source of tension between the royal family and the public until all
  operational US troops left the country in 2003. Major terrorist
  attacks in May and November 2003 spurred a strong on-going campaign
  against domestic terrorism and extremism. King ABDALLAH has
  continued the cautious reform program begun when he was crown
  prince. To promote increased political participation, the government
  held elections nationwide from February through April 2005 for half
  the members of 179 municipal councils. In December 2005, King
  ABDALLAH completed the process by appointing the remaining members
  of the advisory municipal councils. The country remains a leading
  producer of oil and natural gas and holds more than 20% of the
  world's proven oil reserves. The government continues to pursue
  economic reform and diversification, particularly since Saudi
  Arabia's accession to the WTO in December 2005, and promotes foreign
  investment in the kingdom. A burgeoning population, aquifer
  depletion, and an economy largely dependent on petroleum output and
  prices are all ongoing governmental concerns.

Senegal
  The French colonies of Senegal and the French Sudan were
  merged in 1959 and granted their independence as the Mali Federation
  in 1960. The union broke up after only a few months. Senegal joined
  with The Gambia to form the nominal confederation of Senegambia in
  1982, but the envisaged integration of the two countries was never
  carried out, and the union was dissolved in 1989. The Movement of
  Democratic Forces in the Casamance (MFDC) has led a low-level
  separatist insurgency in southern Senegal since the 1980s, and
  several peace deals have failed to resolve the conflict.
  Nevertheless, Senegal remains one of the most stable democracies in
  Africa. Senegal was ruled by a Socialist Party for 40 years until
  current President Abdoulaye WADE was elected in 2000. He was
  reelected in February 2007, but complaints of fraud led opposition
  parties to boycott June 2007 legislative polls. Senegal has a long
  history of participating in international peacekeeping.

Serbia
  The Kingdom of Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes was formed in
  1918; its name was changed to Yugoslavia in 1929. Various
  paramilitary bands resisted Nazi Germany's occupation and division
  of Yugoslavia from 1941 to 1945, but fought each other and ethnic
  opponents as much as the invaders. The military and political
  movement headed by Josip TITO (Partisans) took full control of
  Yugoslavia when German and Croatian separatist forces were defeated
  in 1945. Although Communist, TITO's new government and his
  successors (he died in 1980) managed to steer their own path between
  the Warsaw Pact nations and the West for the next four and a half
  decades. In 1989, Slobodan MILOSEVIC became president of the Serbian
  Republic and his ultranationalist calls for Serbian domination led
  to the violent breakup of Yugoslavia along ethnic lines. In 1991,
  Croatia, Slovenia, and Macedonia declared independence, followed by
  Bosnia in 1992. The remaining republics of Serbia and Montenegro
  declared a new Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) in April 1992
  and under MILOSEVIC's leadership, Serbia led various military
  campaigns to unite ethnic Serbs in neighboring republics into a
  "Greater Serbia." These actions led to Yugoslavia being ousted from
  the UN in 1992, but Serbia continued its - ultimately unsuccessful -
  campaign until signing the Dayton Peace Accords in 1995. MILOSEVIC
  kept tight control over Serbia and eventually became president of
  the FRY in 1997. In 1998, an ethnic Albanian insurgency in the
  formerly autonomous Serbian province of Kosovo provoked a Serbian
  counterinsurgency campaign that resulted in massacres and massive
  expulsions of ethnic Albanians living in Kosovo. The MILOSEVIC
  government's rejection of a proposed international settlement led to
  NATO's bombing of Serbia in the spring of 1999 and to the eventual
  withdrawal of Serbian military and police forces from Kosovo in June
  1999. UNSC Resolution 1244 in June 1999 authorized the stationing of
  a NATO-led force (KFOR) in Kosovo to provide a safe and secure
  environment for the region's ethnic communities, created a UN
  interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) to foster
  self-governing institutions, and reserved the issue of Kosovo's
  final status for an unspecified date in the future. In 2001, UNMIK
  promulgated a constitutional framework that allowed Kosovo to
  establish institutions of self-government and led to Kosovo's first
  parliamentary election. FRY elections in September 2000 led to the
  ouster of MILOSEVIC and installed Vojislav KOSTUNICA as president. A
  broad coalition of democratic reformist parties known as DOS (the
  Democratic Opposition of Serbia) was subsequently elected to
  parliament in December 2000 and took control of the government. DOS
  arrested MILOSEVIC in 2001 and allowed for him to be tried in The
  Hague for crimes against humanity. (MILOSEVIC died in March 2006
  before the completion of his trial.) In 2001, the country's
  suspension from the UN was lifted. In 2003, the FRY became Serbia
  and Montenegro, a loose federation of the two republics with a
  federal level parliament. Widespread violence predominantly
  targeting ethnic Serbs in Kosovo in March 2004 caused the
  international community to open negotiations on the future status of
  Kosovo in January 2006. In May 2006, Montenegro invoked its right to
  secede from the federation and - following a successful referendum -
  it declared itself an independent nation on 3 June 2006. Two days
  later, Serbia declared that it was the successor state to the union
  of Serbia and Montenegro. A new Serbian constitution was approved in
  October 2006 and adopted the following month. After 15 months of
  inconclusive negotiations mediated by the UN and four months of
  further inconclusive negotiations mediated by the US, EU, and
  Russia, on 17 February 2008, the UNMIK-administered province of
  Kosovo declared itself independent of Serbia.

Seychelles
  A lengthy struggle between France and Great Britain for
  the islands ended in 1814, when they were ceded to the latter.
  Independence came in 1976. Socialist rule was brought to a close
  with a new constitution and free elections in 1993. President
  France-Albert RENE, who had served since 1977, was re-elected in
  2001, but stepped down in 2004. Vice President James MICHEL took
  over the presidency and in July 2006 was elected to a new five-year
  term.

Sierra Leone
  Democracy is slowly being reestablished after the civil
  war from 1991 to 2002 that resulted in tens of thousands of deaths
  and the displacement of more than 2 million people (about one-third
  of the population). The military, which took over full
  responsibility for security following the departure of UN
  peacekeepers at the end of 2005, is increasingly developing as a
  guarantor of the country's stability. The armed forces remained on
  the sideline during the 2007 presidential election, but still look
  to the UN Integrated Office in Sierra Leone (UNIOSIL) - a civilian
  UN mission - to support efforts to consolidate peace. The new
  government's priorities include furthering development, creating
  jobs, and stamping out endemic corruption.

Singapore
  Singapore was founded as a British trading colony in 1819.
  It joined the Malaysian Federation in 1963 but separated two years
  later and became independent. Singapore subsequently became one of
  the world's most prosperous countries with strong international
  trading links (its port is one of the world's busiest in terms of
  tonnage handled) and with per capita GDP equal to that of the
  leading nations of Western Europe.

Slovakia
  The dissolution of the Austro-Hungarian Empire at the close
  of World War I allowed the Slovaks to join the closely related
  Czechs to form Czechoslovakia. Following the chaos of World War II,
  Czechoslovakia became a Communist nation within Soviet-dominated
  Eastern Europe. Soviet influence collapsed in 1989 and
  Czechoslovakia once more became free. The Slovaks and the Czechs
  agreed to separate peacefully on 1 January 1993. Slovakia joined
  both NATO and the EU in the spring of 2004.

Slovenia
  The Slovene lands were part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire
  until the latter's dissolution at the end of World War I. In 1918,
  the Slovenes joined the Serbs and Croats in forming a new
  multinational state, which was named Yugoslavia in 1929. After World
  War II, Slovenia became a republic of the renewed Yugoslavia, which
  though Communist, distanced itself from Moscow's rule. Dissatisfied
  with the exercise of power by the majority Serbs, the Slovenes
  succeeded in establishing their independence in 1991 after a short
  10-day war. Historical ties to Western Europe, a strong economy, and
  a stable democracy have assisted in Slovenia's transformation to a
  modern state. Slovenia acceded to both NATO and the EU in the spring
  of 2004.

Solomon Islands
  The UK established a protectorate over the Solomon
  Islands in the 1890s. Some of the bitterest fighting of World War II
  occurred on this archipelago. Self-government was achieved in 1976
  and independence two years later. Ethnic violence, government
  malfeasance, and endemic crime have undermined stability and civil
  society. In June 2003, then Prime Minister Sir Allan KEMAKEZA sought
  the assistance of Australia in reestablishing law and order; the
  following month, an Australian-led multinational force arrived to
  restore peace and disarm ethnic militias. The Regional Assistance
  Mission to the Solomon Islands (RAMSI) has generally been effective
  in restoring law and order and rebuilding government institutions.

Somalia
  Britain withdrew from British Somaliland in 1960 to allow
  its protectorate to join with Italian Somaliland and form the new
  nation of Somalia. In 1969, a coup headed by Mohamed SIAD Barre
  ushered in an authoritarian socialist rule that managed to impose a
  degree of stability in the country for a couple of decades. After
  the regime's collapse early in 1991, Somalia descended into turmoil,
  factional fighting, and anarchy. In May 1991, northern clans
  declared an independent Republic of Somaliland that now includes the
  administrative regions of Awdal, Woqooyi Galbeed, Togdheer, Sanaag,
  and Sool. Although not recognized by any government, this entity has
  maintained a stable existence and continues efforts to establish a
  constitutional democracy, including holding municipal,
  parliamentary, and presidential elections. The regions of Bari,
  Nugaal, and northern Mudug comprise a neighboring self-declared
  autonomous state of Puntland, which has been self-governing since
  1998 but does not aim at independence; it has also made strides
  toward reconstructing a legitimate, representative government but
  has suffered some civil strife. Puntland disputes its border with
  Somaliland as it also claims portions of eastern Sool and Sanaag.
  Beginning in 1993, a two-year UN humanitarian effort (primarily in
  the south) was able to alleviate famine conditions, but when the UN
  withdrew in 1995, having suffered significant casualties, order
  still had not been restored. A two-year peace process, led by the
  Government of Kenya under the auspices of the Intergovernmental
  Authority on Development (IGAD), concluded in October 2004 with the
  election of Abdullahi YUSUF Ahmed as President of the Transitional
  Federal Government (TFG) of Somalia and the formation of an interim
  government, known as the Somalia Transitional Federal Institutions
  (TFIs). The Somalia TFIs include a 275-member parliamentary body,
  known as the Transitional Federal Assembly (TFA), a transitional
  Prime Minister, Nur "Adde" Hassan HUSSEIN, and a 90-member cabinet.
  The TFIs are based on the Transitional Federal Charter, which
  outlines a five-year mandate leading to the establishment of a new
  Somali constitution and a transition to a representative government
  following national elections. While its institutions remain weak,
  the TFG continues to reach out to Somali stakeholders and work with
  international donors to help build the governance capacity of the
  TFIs and work towards national elections in 2009. In June 2006, a
  loose coalition of clerics, business leaders, and Islamic court
  militias known as the Council of Islamic Courts (CIC) defeated
  powerful Mogadishu warlords and took control of the capital. The
  Courts continued to expand militarily throughout much of southern
  Somalia and threatened to overthrow the TFG in Baidoa. Ethiopian and
  TFG forces, concerned over links between some CIC factions and the
  al-Qaida East Africa network and the al-Qaida operatives responsible
  for the bombings of the US embassies in Tanzania and Kenya in 1998,
  intervened in late December 2006, resulting in the collapse of the
  CIC as an organization. However, the TFG continues to face violent
  resistance from extremist elements, such as the al-Shabaab militia
  previously affiliated with the now-defunct CIC.

South Africa
  Dutch traders landed at the southern tip of modern day
  South Africa in 1652 and established a stopover point on the spice
  route between the Netherlands and the East, founding the city of
  Cape Town. After the British seized the Cape of Good Hope area in
  1806, many of the Dutch settlers (the Boers) trekked north to found
  their own republics. The discovery of diamonds (1867) and gold
  (1886) spurred wealth and immigration and intensified the
  subjugation of the native inhabitants. The Boers resisted British
  encroachments but were defeated in the Boer War (1899-1902);
  however, the British and the Afrikaners, as the Boers became known,
  ruled together under the Union of South Africa. In 1948, the
  National Party was voted into power and instituted a policy of
  apartheid - the separate development of the races. The first
  multi-racial elections in 1994 brought an end to apartheid and
  ushered in black majority rule.

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  The islands, which have
  large bird and seal populations, lie approximately 1,000 km east of
  the Falkland Islands and have been under British administration
  since 1908 - except for a brief period in 1982 when Argentina
  occupied them. Grytviken, on South Georgia, was a 19th and early
  20th century whaling station. Famed explorer Ernest SHACKLETON
  stopped there in 1914 en route to his ill-fated attempt to cross
  Antarctica on foot. He returned some 20 months later with a few
  companions in a small boat and arranged a successful rescue for the
  rest of his crew, stranded off the Antarctic Peninsula. He died in
  1922 on a subsequent expedition and is buried in Grytviken. Today,
  the station houses scientists from the British Antarctic Survey.
  Recognizing the importance of preserving the marine stocks in
  adjacent waters, the UK, in 1993, extended the exclusive fishing
  zone from 12 nm to 200 nm around each island.

Southern Ocean
  A large body of recent oceanographic research has
  shown that the Antarctic Circumpolar Current (ACC), an ocean current
  that flows from west to east around Antarctica, plays a crucial role
  in global ocean circulation. The region where the cold waters of the
  ACC meet and mingle with the warmer waters of the north defines a
  distinct border - the Antarctic Convergence - which fluctuates with
  the seasons, but which encompasses a discrete body of water and a
  unique ecologic region. The Convergence concentrates nutrients,
  which promotes marine plant life, and which in turn allows for a
  greater abundance of animal life. In the spring of 2000, the
  International Hydrographic Organization decided to delimit the
  waters within the Convergence as a fifth world ocean - the Southern
  Ocean - by combining the southern portions of the Atlantic Ocean,
  Indian Ocean, and Pacific Ocean. The Southern Ocean extends from the
  coast of Antarctica north to 60 degrees south latitude, which
  coincides with the Antarctic Treaty Limit and which approximates the
  extent of the Antarctic Convergence. As such, the Southern Ocean is
  now the fourth largest of the world's five oceans (after the Pacific
  Ocean, Atlantic Ocean, and Indian Ocean, but larger than the Arctic
  Ocean). It should be noted that inclusion of the Southern Ocean does
  not imply recognition of this feature as one of the world's primary
  oceans by the US Government.

Spain
  Spain's powerful world empire of the 16th and 17th centuries
  ultimately yielded command of the seas to England. Subsequent
  failure to embrace the mercantile and industrial revolutions caused
  the country to fall behind Britain, France, and Germany in economic
  and political power. Spain remained neutral in World Wars I and II
  but suffered through a devastating civil war (1936-39). A peaceful
  transition to democracy following the death of dictator Francisco
  FRANCO in 1975, and rapid economic modernization (Spain joined the
  EU in 1986) have given Spain one of the most dynamic economies in
  Europe and made it a global champion of freedom. Continuing
  challenges include Basque Fatherland and Liberty (ETA) terrorism,
  illegal immigration, and slowing economic growth.

Spratly Islands
  The Spratly Islands consist of more than 100 small
  islands or reefs. They are surrounded by rich fishing grounds and
  potentially by gas and oil deposits. They are claimed in their
  entirety by China, Taiwan, and Vietnam, while portions are claimed
  by Malaysia and the Philippines. About 45 islands are occupied by
  relatively small numbers of military forces from China, Malaysia,
  the Philippines, Taiwan, and Vietnam. Brunei has established a
  fishing zone that overlaps a southern reef but has not made any
  formal claim.

Sri Lanka
  The first Sinhalese arrived in Sri Lanka late in the 6th
  century B.C. probably from northern India. Buddhism was introduced
  in about the mid-third century B.C., and a great civilization
  developed at the cities of Anuradhapura (kingdom from circa 200 B.C.
  to circa A.D. 1000) and Polonnaruwa (from about 1070 to 1200). In
  the 14th century, a south Indian dynasty established a Tamil kingdom
  in northern Sri Lanka. The coastal areas of the island were
  controlled by the Portuguese in the 16th century and by the Dutch in
  the 17th century. The island was ceded to the British in 1796,
  became a crown colony in 1802, and was united under British rule by
  1815. As Ceylon, it became independent in 1948; its name was changed
  to Sri Lanka in 1972. Tensions between the Sinhalese majority and
  Tamil separatists erupted into war in 1983. Tens of thousands have
  died in the ethnic conflict that continues to fester. After two
  decades of fighting, the government and Liberation Tigers of Tamil
  Eelam (LTTE) formalized a cease-fire in February 2002 with Norway
  brokering peace negotiations. Violence between the LTTE and
  government forces intensified in 2006 and the government regained
  control of the Eastern Province in 2007. In January 2008, the
  government officially withdrew from the ceasefire, and has begun
  engaging the LTTE in the northern portion of the country.

Sudan
  Military regimes favoring Islamic-oriented governments have
  dominated national politics since independence from the UK in 1956.
  Sudan was embroiled in two prolonged civil wars during most of the
  remainder of the 20th century. These conflicts were rooted in
  northern economic, political, and social domination of largely
  non-Muslim, non-Arab southern Sudanese. The first civil war ended in
  1972 but broke out again in 1983. The second war and famine-related
  effects resulted in more than four million people displaced and,
  according to rebel estimates, more than two million deaths over a
  period of two decades. Peace talks gained momentum in 2002-04 with
  the signing of several accords. The final North/South Comprehensive
  Peace Agreement (CPA), signed in January 2005, granted the southern
  rebels autonomy for six years. After which, a referendum for
  independence is scheduled to be held. A separate conflict, which
  broke out in the western region of Darfur in 2003, has displaced
  nearly two million people and caused an estimated 200,000 to 400,000
  deaths. The UN took command of the Darfur peacekeeping operation
  from the African Union on 31 December 2007. As of early 2008,
  peacekeeping troops were struggling to stabilize the situation,
  which has become increasingly regional in scope, and has brought
  instability to eastern Chad, and Sudanese incursions into the
  Central African Republic. Sudan also has faced large refugee
  influxes from neighboring countries, primarily Ethiopia and Chad.
  Armed conflict, poor transport infrastructure, and lack of
  government support have chronically obstructed the provision of
  humanitarian assistance to affected populations.

Suriname
  First explored by the Spaniards in the 16th century and
  then settled by the English in the mid-17th century, Suriname became
  a Dutch colony in 1667. With the abolition of slavery in 1863,
  workers were brought in from India and Java. Independence from the
  Netherlands was granted in 1975. Five years later the civilian
  government was replaced by a military regime that soon declared a
  socialist republic. It continued to exert control through a
  succession of nominally civilian administrations until 1987, when
  international pressure finally forced a democratic election. In
  1990, the military overthrew the civilian leadership, but a
  democratically elected government - a four-party New Front coalition
  - returned to power in 1991 and has ruled since; the coalition
  expanded to eight parties in 2005.

Svalbard
  First discovered by the Norwegians in the 12th century, the
  islands served as an international whaling base during the 17th and
  18th centuries. Norway's sovereignty was recognized in 1920; five
  years later it officially took over the territory.

Swaziland
  Autonomy for the Swazis of southern Africa was guaranteed
  by the British in the late 19th century; independence was granted in
  1968. Student and labor unrest during the 1990s pressured King
  MSWATI III, the world's last absolute monarch, to grudgingly allow
  political reform and greater democracy, although he has backslid on
  these promises in recent years. A constitution came into effect in
  2006, but political parties remain banned. The African United
  Democratic Party tried unsuccessfully to register as an official
  political party in mid 2006. Talks over the constitution broke down
  between the government and progressive groups in 2007. Swaziland
  recently surpassed Botswana as the country with the world's highest
  known HIV/AIDS prevalence rate.

Sweden
  A military power during the 17th century, Sweden has not
  participated in any war in almost two centuries. An armed neutrality
  was preserved in both World Wars. Sweden's long-successful economic
  formula of a capitalist system interlarded with substantial welfare
  elements was challenged in the 1990s by high unemployment and in
  2000-02 by the global economic downturn, but fiscal discipline over
  the past several years has allowed the country to weather economic
  vagaries. Sweden joined the EU in 1995, but the public rejected the
  introduction of the euro in a 2003 referendum.

Switzerland
  The Swiss Confederation was founded in 1291 as a
  defensive alliance among three cantons. In succeeding years, other
  localities joined the original three. The Swiss Confederation
  secured its independence from the Holy Roman Empire in 1499. A
  constitution of 1848, subsequently modified in 1874, replaced the
  confederation with a centralized federal government. Switzerland's
  sovereignty and neutrality have long been honored by the major
  European powers, and the country was not involved in either of the
  two World Wars. The political and economic integration of Europe
  over the past half century, as well as Switzerland's role in many UN
  and international organizations, has strengthened Switzerland's ties
  with its neighbors. However, the country did not officially become a
  UN member until 2002. Switzerland remains active in many UN and
  international organizations but retains a strong commitment to
  neutrality.

Syria
  Following the breakup of the Ottoman Empire during World War
  I, France administered Syria until its independence in 1946. The
  country lacked political stability, however, and experienced a
  series of military coups during its first decades. Syria united with
  Egypt in February 1958 to form the United Arab Republic. In
  September 1961, the two entities separated, and the Syrian Arab
  Republic was reestablished. In November 1970, Hafiz al-ASAD, a
  member of the Socialist Ba'th Party and the minority Alawite sect,
  seized power in a bloodless coup and brought political stability to
  the country. In the 1967 Arab-Israeli War, Syria lost the Golan
  Heights to Israel. During the 1990s, Syria and Israel held
  occasional peace talks over its return. Following the death of
  President al-ASAD, his son, Bashar al-ASAD, was approved as
  president by popular referendum in July 2000. Syrian troops -
  stationed in Lebanon since 1976 in an ostensible peacekeeping role -
  were withdrawn in April 2005. During the July-August 2006 conflict
  between Israel and Hizballah, Syria placed its military forces on
  alert but did not intervene directly on behalf of its ally Hizballah.

Taiwan
  In 1895, military defeat forced China to cede Taiwan to
  Japan. Taiwan reverted to Chinese control after World War II.
  Following the Communist victory on the mainland in 1949, 2 million
  Nationalists fled to Taiwan and established a government using the
  1946 constitution drawn up for all of China. Over the next five
  decades, the ruling authorities gradually democratized and
  incorporated the local population within the governing structure. In
  2000, Taiwan underwent its first peaceful transfer of power from the
  Nationalist to the Democratic Progressive Party. Throughout this
  period, the island prospered and became one of East Asia's economic
  "Tigers." The dominant political issues continue to be the
  relationship between Taiwan and China - specifically the question of
  eventual unification - as well as domestic political and economic
  reform.

Tajikistan
  The Tajik people came under Russian rule in the 1860s and
  1870s, but Russia's hold on Central Asia weakened following the
  Revolution of 1917. Bolshevik control of the area was fiercely
  contested and not fully reestablished until 1925. Much of
  present-day Sughd province was transferred from the Uzbekistan SSR
  to newly formed Tajikistan SSR in 1929. Ethnic Uzbeks form a
  substantial minority in Sughd province. Tajikistan became
  independent in 1991 following the breakup of the Soviet Union, and
  it is now in the process of strengthening its democracy and
  transitioning to a free market economy after its 1992-97 civil war.
  There have been no major security incidents in recent years,
  although the country remains the poorest in the former Soviet
  sphere. Attention by the international community in the wake of the
  war in Afghanistan has brought increased economic development and
  security assistance, which could create jobs and increase stability
  in the long term. Tajikistan is in the early stages of seeking World
  Trade Organization membership and has joined NATO's Partnership for
  Peace.

Tanzania
  Shortly after achieving independence from Britain in the
  early 1960s, Tanganyika and Zanzibar merged to form the nation of
  Tanzania in 1964. One-party rule came to an end in 1995 with the
  first democratic elections held in the country since the 1970s.
  Zanzibar's semi-autonomous status and popular opposition have led to
  two contentious elections since 1995, which the ruling party won
  despite international observers' claims of voting irregularities.

Thailand
  A unified Thai kingdom was established in the mid-14th
  century. Known as Siam until 1939, Thailand is the only Southeast
  Asian country never to have been taken over by a European power. A
  bloodless revolution in 1932 led to a constitutional monarchy. In
  alliance with Japan during World War II, Thailand became a US ally
  following the conflict. Thailand is currently facing separatist
  violence in its southern ethnic Malay-Muslim provinces.

Timor-Leste
  The Portuguese began to trade with the island of Timor
  in the early 16th century and colonized it in mid-century.
  Skirmishing with the Dutch in the region eventually resulted in an
  1859 treaty in which Portugal ceded the western portion of the
  island. Imperial Japan occupied Portuguese Timor from 1942 to 1945,
  but Portugal resumed colonial authority after the Japanese defeat in
  World War II. East Timor declared itself independent from Portugal
  on 28 November 1975 and was invaded and occupied by Indonesian
  forces nine days later. It was incorporated into Indonesia in July
  1976 as the province of Timor Timur (East Timor). An unsuccessful
  campaign of pacification followed over the next two decades, during
  which an estimated 100,000 to 250,000 individuals lost their lives.
  On 30 August 1999, in a UN-supervised popular referendum, an
  overwhelming majority of the people of Timor-Leste voted for
  independence from Indonesia. Between the referendum and the arrival
  of a multinational peacekeeping force in late September 1999,
  anti-independence Timorese militias - organized and supported by the
  Indonesian military - commenced a large-scale, scorched-earth
  campaign of retribution. The militias killed approximately 1,400
  Timorese and forcibly pushed 300,000 people into western Timor as
  refugees. The majority of the country's infrastructure, including
  homes, irrigation systems, water supply systems, and schools, and
  nearly 100% of the country's electrical grid were destroyed. On 20
  September 1999 the Australian-led peacekeeping troops of the
  International Force for East Timor (INTERFET) deployed to the
  country and brought the violence to an end. On 20 May 2002,
  Timor-Leste was internationally recognized as an independent state.
  In late April 2006, internal tensions threatened the new nation's
  security when a military strike led to violence and a near breakdown
  of law and order in Dili. At the request of the Government of
  Timor-Leste, an Australian-led International Stabilization Force
  (ISF) deployed to Timor-Leste in late May. In August, the UN
  Security Council established the UN Integrated Mission in
  Timor-Leste (UNMIT), which included an authorized police presence of
  over 1,600 personnel. In subsequent months, many of the ISF soldiers
  were replaced by UN police officers; approximately 80 ISF officers
  remained as of January 2008. From April to June 2007, the Government
  of Timor-Leste held presidential and parliamentary elections in a
  largely peaceful atmosphere with the support and assistance of UNMIT
  and international donors.

Togo
  French Togoland became Togo in 1960. Gen. Gnassingbe EYADEMA,
  installed as military ruler in 1967, ruled Togo with a heavy hand
  for almost four decades. Despite the facade of multiparty elections
  instituted in the early 1990s, the government was largely dominated
  by President EYADEMA, whose Rally of the Togolese People (RPT) party
  has maintained power almost continually since 1967 and maintains a
  majority of seats in today's legislature. Upon EYADEMA's death in
  February 2005, the military installed the president's son, Faure
  GNASSINGBE, and then engineered his formal election two months
  later. Democratic gains since then allowed Togo to hold its first
  relatively free and fair legislative elections in October 2007.
  After years of political unrest and fire from international
  organizations for human rights abuses, Togo is finally being
  re-welcomed into the international community.

Tokelau
  Originally settled by Polynesian emigrants from surrounding
  island groups, the Tokelau Islands were made a British protectorate
  in 1889. They were transferred to New Zealand administration in
  1925. Referenda held in 2006 and 2007 to change the status of the
  islands from that of a New Zealand territory to one of free
  association with New Zealand did not meet the needed threshold for
  approval.

Tonga
  Tonga - unique among Pacific nations - never completely lost
  its indigenous governance. The archipelagos of "The Friendly
  Islands" were united into a Polynesian kingdom in 1845. Tonga became
  a constitutional monarchy in 1875 and a British protectorate in
  1900; it withdrew from the protectorate and joined the Commonwealth
  of Nations in 1970. Tonga remains the only monarchy in the Pacific.

Trinidad and Tobago
  First colonized by the Spanish, the islands came
  under British control in the early 19th century. The islands' sugar
  industry was hurt by the emancipation of the slaves in 1834.
  Manpower was replaced with the importation of contract laborers from
  India between 1845 and 1917, which boosted sugar production as well
  as the cocoa industry. The discovery of oil on Trinidad in 1910
  added another important export. Independence was attained in 1962.
  The country is one of the most prosperous in the Caribbean thanks
  largely to petroleum and natural gas production and processing.
  Tourism, mostly in Tobago, is targeted for expansion and is growing.
  The government is coping with a rise in violent crime.

Tunisia
  Rivalry between French and Italian interests in Tunisia
  culminated in a French invasion in 1881 and the creation of a
  protectorate. Agitation for independence in the decades following
  World War I was finally successful in getting the French to
  recognize Tunisia as an independent state in 1956. The country's
  first president, Habib BOURGUIBA, established a strict one-party
  state. He dominated the country for 31 years, repressing Islamic
  fundamentalism and establishing rights for women unmatched by any
  other Arab nation. In November 1987, BOURGUIBA was removed from
  office and replaced by Zine el Abidine BEN ALI in a bloodless coup.
  BEN ALI is currently serving his fourth consecutive five-year term
  as president; the next elections are scheduled for October 2009.
  Tunisia has long taken a moderate, non-aligned stance in its foreign
  relations. Domestically, it has sought to defuse rising pressure for
  a more open political society.

Turkey
  Modern Turkey was founded in 1923 from the Anatolian remnants
  of the defeated Ottoman Empire by national hero Mustafa KEMAL, who
  was later honored with the title Ataturk or "Father of the Turks."
  Under his authoritarian leadership, the country adopted wide-ranging
  social, legal, and political reforms. After a period of one-party
  rule, an experiment with multi-party politics led to the 1950
  election victory of the opposition Democratic Party and the peaceful
  transfer of power. Since then, Turkish political parties have
  multiplied, but democracy has been fractured by periods of
  instability and intermittent military coups (1960, 1971, 1980),
  which in each case eventually resulted in a return of political
  power to civilians. In 1997, the military again helped engineer the
  ouster - popularly dubbed a "post-modern coup" - of the then
  Islamic-oriented government. Turkey intervened militarily on Cyprus
  in 1974 to prevent a Greek takeover of the island and has since
  acted as patron state to the "Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus,"
  which only Turkey recognizes. A separatist insurgency begun in 1984
  by the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) - now known as the People's
  Congress of Kurdistan or Kongra-Gel (KGK) - has dominated the
  Turkish military's attention and claimed more than 30,000 lives.
  After the capture of the group's leader in 1999, the insurgents
  largely withdrew from Turkey mainly to northern Iraq. In 2004, KGK
  announced an end to its ceasefire and attacks attributed to the KGK
  increased. Turkey joined the UN in 1945 and in 1952 it became a
  member of NATO. In 1964, Turkey became an associate member of the
  European Community; over the past decade, it has undertaken many
  reforms to strengthen its democracy and economy enabling it to begin
  accession membership talks with the European Union.

Turkmenistan
  Eastern Turkmenistan for centuries formed part of the
  Persian province of Khurasan; in medieval times Merv (today known as
  Mary) was one of the great cities of the Islamic world and an
  important stop on the Silk Road. Annexed by Russia between 1865 and
  1885, Turkmenistan became a Soviet republic in 1924. It achieved
  independence upon the dissolution of the USSR in 1991. Extensive
  hydrocarbon/natural gas reserves could prove a boon to this
  underdeveloped country if extraction and delivery projects were to
  be expanded. The Turkmenistan Government is actively seeking to
  develop alternative petroleum transportation routes to break
  Russia's pipeline monopoly. President for Life Saparmurat NYYAZOW
  died in December 2006, and Turkmenistan held its first
  multi-candidate presidential electoral process in February 2007.
  Gurbanguly BERDIMUHAMEDOW, a vice premier under NYYAZOW, emerged as
  the country's new president.

Turks and Caicos Islands
  The islands were part of the UK's Jamaican
  colony until 1962, when they assumed the status of a separate crown
  colony upon Jamaica's independence. The governor of The Bahamas
  oversaw affairs from 1965 to 1973. With Bahamian independence, the
  islands received a separate governor in 1973. Although independence
  was agreed upon for 1982, the policy was reversed and the islands
  remain a British overseas territory.

Tuvalu
  In 1974, ethnic differences within the British colony of the
  Gilbert and Ellice Islands caused the Polynesians of the Ellice
  Islands to vote for separation from the Micronesians of the Gilbert
  Islands. The following year, the Ellice Islands became the separate
  British colony of Tuvalu. Independence was granted in 1978. In 2000,
  Tuvalu negotiated a contract leasing its Internet domain name ".tv"
  for $50 million in royalties over a 12-year period.

Uganda
  The colonial boundaries created by Britain to delimit Uganda
  grouped together a wide range of ethnic groups with different
  political systems and cultures. These differences prevented the
  establishment of a working political community after independence
  was achieved in 1962. The dictatorial regime of Idi AMIN (1971-79)
  was responsible for the deaths of some 300,000 opponents; guerrilla
  war and human rights abuses under Milton OBOTE (1980-85) claimed at
  least another 100,000 lives. The rule of Yoweri MUSEVENI since 1986
  has brought relative stability and economic growth to Uganda. During
  the 1990s, the government promulgated non-party presidential and
  legislative elections.

Ukraine
  Ukraine was the center of the first eastern Slavic state,
  Kyivan Rus, which during the 10th and 11th centuries was the largest
  and most powerful state in Europe. Weakened by internecine quarrels
  and Mongol invasions, Kyivan Rus was incorporated into the Grand
  Duchy of Lithuania and eventually into the Polish-Lithuanian
  Commonwealth. The cultural and religious legacy of Kyivan Rus laid
  the foundation for Ukrainian nationalism through subsequent
  centuries. A new Ukrainian state, the Cossack Hetmanate, was
  established during the mid-17th century after an uprising against
  the Poles. Despite continuous Muscovite pressure, the Hetmanate
  managed to remain autonomous for well over 100 years. During the
  latter part of the 18th century, most Ukrainian ethnographic
  territory was absorbed by the Russian Empire. Following the collapse
  of czarist Russia in 1917, Ukraine was able to bring about a
  short-lived period of independence (1917-20), but was reconquered
  and forced to endure a brutal Soviet rule that engineered two
  artificial famines (1921-22 and 1932-33) in which over 8 million
  died. In World War II, German and Soviet armies were responsible for
  some 7 to 8 million more deaths. Although final independence for
  Ukraine was achieved in 1991 with the dissolution of the USSR,
  democracy remained elusive as the legacy of state control and
  endemic corruption stalled efforts at economic reform,
  privatization, and civil liberties. A peaceful mass protest "Orange
  Revolution" in the closing months of 2004 forced the authorities to
  overturn a rigged presidential election and to allow a new
  internationally monitored vote that swept into power a reformist
  slate under Viktor YUSHCHENKO. Subsequent internal squabbles in the
  YUSHCHENKO camp allowed his rival Viktor YANUKOVYCH to stage a
  comeback in parliamentary elections and become prime minister in
  August of 2006. An early legislative election, brought on by a
  political crisis in the spring of 2007, saw Yuliya TYMOSHENKO, as
  head of an "Orange" coalition, installed as a new prime minister in
  December 2007.

United Arab Emirates
  The Trucial States of the Persian Gulf coast
  granted the UK control of their defense and foreign affairs in 19th
  century treaties. In 1971, six of these states - Abu Zaby, 'Ajman,
  Al Fujayrah, Ash Shariqah, Dubayy, and Umm al Qaywayn - merged to
  form the United Arab Emirates (UAE). They were joined in 1972 by
  Ra's al Khaymah. The UAE's per capita GDP is on par with those of
  leading West European nations. Its generosity with oil revenues and
  its moderate foreign policy stance have allowed the UAE to play a
  vital role in the affairs of the region.

United Kingdom
  As the dominant industrial and maritime power of the
  19th century, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland played
  a leading role in developing parliamentary democracy and in
  advancing literature and science. At its zenith, the British Empire
  stretched over one-fourth of the earth's surface. The first half of
  the 20th century saw the UK's strength seriously depleted in two
  World Wars and the Irish republic withdraw from the union. The
  second half witnessed the dismantling of the Empire and the UK
  rebuilding itself into a modern and prosperous European nation. As
  one of five permanent members of the UN Security Council, a founding
  member of NATO, and of the Commonwealth, the UK pursues a global
  approach to foreign policy; it currently is weighing the degree of
  its integration with continental Europe. A member of the EU, it
  chose to remain outside the Economic and Monetary Union for the time
  being. Constitutional reform is also a significant issue in the UK.
  The Scottish Parliament, the National Assembly for Wales, and the
  Northern Ireland Assembly were established in 1999, but the latter
  was suspended until May 2007 due to wrangling over the peace process.

United States
  Britain's American colonies broke with the mother
  country in 1776 and were recognized as the new nation of the United
  States of America following the Treaty of Paris in 1783. During the
  19th and 20th centuries, 37 new states were added to the original 13
  as the nation expanded across the North American continent and
  acquired a number of overseas possessions. The two most traumatic
  experiences in the nation's history were the Civil War (1861-65), in
  which a northern Union of states defeated a secessionist Confederacy
  of 11 southern slave states, and the Great Depression of the 1930s,
  an economic downturn during which about a quarter of the labor force
  lost its jobs. Buoyed by victories in World Wars I and II and the
  end of the Cold War in 1991, the US remains the world's most
  powerful nation state. The economy is marked by steady growth, low
  unemployment and inflation, and rapid advances in technology.

United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
  All of the following
  US Pacific island territories except Midway Atoll constitute the
  Pacific Remote Islands National Wildlife Refuge Complex and as such
  are managed by the Fish and Wildlife Service of the US Department of
  the Interior. Midway Atoll NWR has been included in a Refuge Complex
  with the Hawaiian Islands NWR and also designated as part of
  Papahanaumokuakea Marine National Monument. These remote refuges are
  the most widespread collection of marine- and terrestrial-life
  protected areas on the planet under a single country's jurisdiction.
  They sustain many endemic species including corals, fish, shellfish,
  marine mammals, seabirds, water birds, land birds, insects, and
  vegetation not found elsewhere.
  Baker Island: The US took possession of the island in 1857, and its
  guano deposits were mined by US and British companies during the
  second half of the 19th century. In 1935, a short-lived attempt at
  colonization began on this island but was disrupted by World War II
  and thereafter abandoned. The island was established as a National
  Wildlife Refuge in 1974.
  Howland Island: Discovered by the US early in the 19th century, the
  uninhabited atoll was officially claimed by the US in 1857. Both US
  and British companies mined for guano deposits until about 1890. In
  1935, a short-lived attempt at colonization began on this island,
  similar to the effort on nearby Baker Island, but was disrupted by
  World War II and thereafter abandoned. The famed American aviatrix
  Amelia EARHART disappeared while seeking out Howland Island as a
  refueling stop during her 1937 round-the-world flight; Earhart
  Light, a day beacon near the middle of the west coast, was named in
  her memory. The island was established as a National Wildlife Refuge
  in 1974.
  Jarvis Island: First discovered by the British in 1821, the
  uninhabited island was annexed by the US in 1858, but abandoned in
  1879 after tons of guano had been removed. The UK annexed the island
  in 1889, but never carried out plans for further exploitation. The
  US occupied and reclaimed the island in 1935 until it was abandoned
  in 1942 during World War II. The island was established as a
  National Wildlife Refuge in 1974.
  Johnston Atoll: Both the US and the Kingdom of Hawaii annexed
  Johnston Atoll in 1858, but it was the US that mined the guano
  deposits until the late 1880s. Johnston and Sand Islands were
  designated wildlife refuges in 1926. The US Navy took over the atoll
  in 1934, and subsequently the US Air Force assumed control in 1948.
  The site was used for high-altitude nuclear tests in the 1950s and
  1960s, and until late in 2000 the atoll was maintained as a storage
  and disposal site for chemical weapons. Munitions destruction,
  cleanup, and closure of the facility was completed by May 2005. The
  Fish and Wildlife Service and the US Air Force are currently
  discussing future management options; in the interim, Johnston Atoll
  and the three-mile Naval Defensive Sea around it remain under the
  jurisdiction and administrative control of the US Air Force.
  Kingman Reef: The US annexed the reef in 1922. Its sheltered lagoon
  served as a way station for flying boats on Hawaii-to-American Samoa
  flights during the late 1930s. There are no terrestrial plants on
  the reef, which is frequently awash, but it does support abundant
  and diverse marine fauna and flora. In 2001, the waters surrounding
  the reef out to 12 nm were designated a US National Wildlife Refuge.
  Midway Islands: The US took formal possession of the islands in
  1867. The laying of the trans-Pacific cable, which passed through
  the islands, brought the first residents in 1903. Between 1935 and
  1947, Midway was used as a refueling stop for trans-Pacific flights.
  The US naval victory over a Japanese fleet off Midway in 1942 was
  one of the turning points of World War II. The islands continued to
  serve as a naval station until closed in 1993. Today the islands are
  a National Wildlife Refuge and are the site of the world's largest
  Laysan albatross colony.
  Palmyra Atoll: The Kingdom of Hawaii claimed the atoll in 1862, and
  the US included it among the Hawaiian Islands when it annexed the
  archipelago in 1898. The Hawaii Statehood Act of 1959 did not
  include Palmyra Atoll, which is now partly privately owned by the
  Nature Conservancy with the rest owned by the Federal government and
  managed by the US Fish and Wildlife Service. These organizations are
  managing the atoll as a wildlife refuge. The lagoons and surrounding
  waters within the 12 nm US territorial seas were transferred to the
  US Fish and Wildlife Service and designated as a National Wildlife
  Refuge in January 2001.

Uruguay
  Montevideo, founded by the Spanish in 1726 as a military
  stronghold, soon took advantage of its natural harbor to become an
  important commercial center. Claimed by Argentina but annexed by
  Brazil in 1821, Uruguay declared its independence four years later
  and secured its freedom in 1828 after a three-year struggle. The
  administrations of President Jose BATLLE in the early 20th century
  established widespread political, social, and economic reforms that
  established a statist tradition. A violent Marxist urban guerrilla
  movement named the Tupamaros, launched in the late 1960s, led
  Uruguay's president to cede control of the government to the
  military in 1973. By yearend, the rebels had been crushed, but the
  military continued to expand its hold over the government. Civilian
  rule was not restored until 1985. In 2004, the left-of-center Frente
  Amplio Coalition won national elections that effectively ended 170
  years of political control previously held by the Colorado and
  Blanco parties. Uruguay's political and labor conditions are among
  the freest on the continent.

Uzbekistan
  Russia conquered Uzbekistan in the late 19th century.
  Stiff resistance to the Red Army after World War I was eventually
  suppressed and a socialist republic set up in 1924. During the
  Soviet era, intensive production of "white gold" (cotton) and grain
  led to overuse of agrochemicals and the depletion of water supplies,
  which have left the land poisoned and the Aral Sea and certain
  rivers half dry. Independent since 1991, the country seeks to
  gradually lessen its dependence on agriculture while developing its
  mineral and petroleum reserves. Current concerns include terrorism
  by Islamic militants, economic stagnation, and the curtailment of
  human rights and democratization.

Vanuatu
  Multiple waves of colonizers, each speaking a distinct
  language, migrated to the New Hebrides in the millennia preceding
  European exploration in the 18th century. This settlement pattern
  accounts for the complex linguistic diversity found on the
  archipelago to this day. The British and French, who settled the New
  Hebrides in the 19th century, agreed in 1906 to an Anglo-French
  Condominium, which administered the islands until independence in
  1980, when the new name of Vanuatu was adopted.

Venezuela
  Venezuela was one of three countries that emerged from the
  collapse of Gran Colombia in 1830 (the others being Ecuador and New
  Granada, which became Colombia). For most of the first half of the
  20th century, Venezuela was ruled by generally benevolent military
  strongmen, who promoted the oil industry and allowed for some social
  reforms. Democratically elected governments have held sway since
  1959. Hugo CHAVEZ, president since 1999, seeks to implement his
  "21st Century Socialism," which purports to alleviate social ills
  while at the same time attacking globalization and undermining
  regional stability. Current concerns include: a weakening of
  democratic institutions, political polarization, a politicized
  military, drug-related violence along the Colombian border,
  increasing internal drug consumption, overdependence on the
  petroleum industry with its price fluctuations, and irresponsible
  mining operations that are endangering the rain forest and
  indigenous peoples.

Vietnam
  The conquest of Vietnam by France began in 1858 and was
  completed by 1884. It became part of French Indochina in 1887.
  Vietnam declared independence after World War II, but France
  continued to rule until its 1954 defeat by Communist forces under Ho
  Chi MINH. Under the Geneva Accords of 1954, Vietnam was divided into
  the Communist North and anti-Communist South. US economic and
  military aid to South Vietnam grew through the 1960s in an attempt
  to bolster the government, but US armed forces were withdrawn
  following a cease-fire agreement in 1973. Two years later, North
  Vietnamese forces overran the South reuniting the country under
  Communist rule. Despite the return of peace, for over a decade the
  country experienced little economic growth because of conservative
  leadership policies. However, since the enactment of Vietnam's "doi
  moi" (renovation) policy in 1986, Vietnamese authorities have
  committed to increased economic liberalization and enacted
  structural reforms needed to modernize the economy and to produce
  more competitive, export-driven industries. The country continues to
  experience protests from various groups - such as the Protestant
  Montagnard ethnic minority population of the Central Highlands and
  the Hoa Hao Buddhists in southern Vietnam over religious
  persecution. Montagnard grievances also include the loss of land to
  Vietnamese settlers.

Virgin Islands
  During the 17th century, the archipelago was divided
  into two territorial units, one English and the other Danish.
  Sugarcane, produced by slave labor, drove the islands' economy
  during the 18th and early 19th centuries. In 1917, the US purchased
  the Danish portion, which had been in economic decline since the
  abolition of slavery in 1848.

Wake Island
  The US annexed Wake Island in 1899 for a cable station.
  An important air and naval base was constructed in 1940-41. In
  December 1941, the island was captured by the Japanese and held
  until the end of World War II. In subsequent years, Wake was
  developed as a stopover and refueling site for military and
  commercial aircraft transiting the Pacific. Since 1974, the island's
  airstrip has been used by the US military, as well as for emergency
  landings. All operations on the island were suspended and all
  personnel evacuated in August 2006 with the approach of super
  typhoon IOKE (category 5), which struck the island with sustained
  winds of 250 kph and a 6 m storm surge inflicting major damage. A US
  Air Force assessment and repair team returned to the island in
  September and restored limited function to the airfield and
  facilities. The future status of activities on the island will be
  determined upon completion of the survey and assessment.

Wallis and Futuna
  The Futuna island group was discovered by the
  Dutch in 1616 and Wallis by the British in 1767, but it was the
  French who declared a protectorate over the islands in 1842. In
  1959, the inhabitants of the islands voted to become a French
  overseas territory.

West Bank
  The September 1993 Israel-PLO Declaration of Principles on
  Interim Self-Government Arrangements provided for a transitional
  period of Palestinian self-rule in the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
  Under a series of agreements signed between May 1994 and September
  1999, Israel transferred to the Palestinian Authority (PA) security
  and civilian responsibility for Palestinian-populated areas of the
  West Bank and Gaza. Negotiations to determine the permanent status
  of the West Bank and Gaza stalled following the outbreak of an
  intifada in September 2000, as Israeli forces reoccupied most
  Palestinian-controlled areas. In April 2003, the Quartet (US, EU,
  UN, and Russia) presented a roadmap to a final settlement of the
  conflict by 2005 based on reciprocal steps by the two parties
  leading to two states, Israel and a democratic Palestine. The
  proposed date for a permanent status agreement was postponed
  indefinitely due to violence and accusations that both sides had not
  followed through on their commitments. Following Palestinian leader
  Yasir ARAFAT's death in late 2004, Mahmud ABBAS was elected PA
  president in January 2005. A month later, Israel and the PA agreed
  to the Sharm el-Sheikh Commitments in an effort to move the peace
  process forward. In September 2005, Israel unilaterally withdrew all
  its settlers and soldiers and dismantled its military facilities in
  the Gaza Strip and withdrew settlers and redeployed soldiers from
  four small northern West Bank settlements. Nonetheless, Israel
  controls maritime, airspace, and most access to the Gaza Strip. A
  November 2005 PA-Israeli agreement authorized the reopening of the
  Rafah border crossing between the Gaza Strip and Egypt under joint
  PA and Egyptian control. In January 2006, the Islamic Resistance
  Movement, HAMAS, won control of the Palestinian Legislative Council
  (PLC). The international community refused to accept the HAMAS-led
  government because it did not recognize Israel, would not renounce
  violence, and refused to honor previous peace agreements between
  Israel and the PA. HAMAS took control of the PA government in March
  2006, but President ABBAS had little success negotiating with HAMAS
  to present a political platform acceptable to the international
  community so as to lift economic sanctions on Palestinians. The PLC
  was unable to convene throughout most of 2006 as a result of
  Israel's detention of many HAMAS PLC members and Israeli-imposed
  travel restrictions on other PLC members. Violent clashes took place
  between Fatah and HAMAS supporters in the Gaza Strip in 2006 and
  early 2007, resulting in numerous Palestinian deaths and injuries.
  ABBAS and HAMAS Political Bureau Chief MISHAL in February 2007
  signed the Mecca Agreement in Saudi Arabia that resulted in the
  formation of a Palestinian National Unity Government (NUG) headed by
  HAMAS member Ismail HANIYA. However, fighting continued in the Gaza
  Strip, and in June, HAMAS militants succeeded in a violent takeover
  of all military and governmental institutions in the Gaza Strip.
  ABBAS dismissed the NUG and through a series of presidential decrees
  formed a PA government in the West Bank led by independent Salam
  FAYYAD. HAMAS rejected the NUG's dismissal and has called for
  resuming talks with Fatah, but ABBAS has ruled out negotiations
  until HAMAS agrees to a return of PA control over the Gaza Strip and
  recognizes the FAYYAD-led government. FAYYAD and his PA government
  initiated a series of security and economic reforms to improve
  conditions in the West Bank. ABBAS participated in talks with
  Israel's Prime Minister OLMERT and secured the release of some
  Palestinian prisoners and previously withheld customs revenue.
  During a November 2007 international meeting in Annapolis Maryland,
  ABBAS and OLMERT agreed to resume peace negotiations with the goal
  of reaching a final peace settlement by the end of 2008.

Western Sahara
  Morocco virtually annexed the northern two-thirds of
  Western Sahara (formerly Spanish Sahara) in 1976, and the rest of
  the territory in 1979, following Mauritania's withdrawal. A
  guerrilla war with the Polisario Front contesting Rabat's
  sovereignty ended in a 1991 UN-brokered cease-fire; a UN-organized
  referendum on final status has been repeatedly postponed. In April
  2007, Morocco presented an autonomy plan for the territory to the
  UN, which the U.S. considers serious and credible. The Polisario
  also presented a plan to the UN in 2007. Since June 2007,
  representatives from the Government of Morocco and the Polisario
  Front have met four times to negotiate the status of Western Sahara.

World
  Globally, the 20th century was marked by: (a) two devastating
  world wars; (b) the Great Depression of the 1930s; (c) the end of
  vast colonial empires; (d) rapid advances in science and technology,
  from the first airplane flight at Kitty Hawk, North Carolina (US) to
  the landing on the moon; (e) the Cold War between the Western
  alliance and the Warsaw Pact nations; (f) a sharp rise in living
  standards in North America, Europe, and Japan; (g) increased
  concerns about the environment, including loss of forests, shortages
  of energy and water, the decline in biological diversity, and air
  pollution; (h) the onset of the AIDS epidemic; and (i) the ultimate
  emergence of the US as the only world superpower. The planet's
  population continues to explode: from 1 billion in 1820, to 2
  billion in 1930, 3 billion in 1960, 4 billion in 1974, 5 billion in
  1988, and 6 billion in 2000. For the 21st century, the continued
  exponential growth in science and technology raises both hopes
  (e.g., advances in medicine) and fears (e.g., development of even
  more lethal weapons of war).

Yemen
  North Yemen became independent of the Ottoman Empire in 1918.
  The British, who had set up a protectorate area around the southern
  port of Aden in the 19th century, withdrew in 1967 from what became
  South Yemen. Three years later, the southern government adopted a
  Marxist orientation. The massive exodus of hundreds of thousands of
  Yemenis from the south to the north contributed to two decades of
  hostility between the states. The two countries were formally
  unified as the Republic of Yemen in 1990. A southern secessionist
  movement in 1994 was quickly subdued. In 2000, Saudi Arabia and
  Yemen agreed to a delimitation of their border.

Zambia
  The territory of Northern Rhodesia was administered by the
  [British] South Africa Company from 1891 until it was taken over by
  the UK in 1923. During the 1920s and 1930s, advances in mining
  spurred development and immigration. The name was changed to Zambia
  upon independence in 1964. In the 1980s and 1990s, declining copper
  prices and a prolonged drought hurt the economy. Elections in 1991
  brought an end to one-party rule, but the subsequent vote in 1996
  saw blatant harassment of opposition parties. The election in 2001
  was marked by administrative problems with three parties filing a
  legal petition challenging the election of ruling party candidate
  Levy MWANAWASA. The new president launched an anticorruption
  investigation in 2002 to probe high-level corruption during the
  previous administration. In 2006-07, this task force successfully
  prosecuted four cases, including a landmark civil case in the UK in
  which former President CHILUBA and numerous others were found liable
  for USD 41 million. MWANAWASA was reelected in 2006 in an election
  that was deemed free and fair.

Zimbabwe
  The UK annexed Southern Rhodesia from the [British] South
  Africa Company in 1923. A 1961 constitution was formulated that
  favored whites in power. In 1965 the government unilaterally
  declared its independence, but the UK did not recognize the act and
  demanded more complete voting rights for the black African majority
  in the country (then called Rhodesia). UN sanctions and a guerrilla
  uprising finally led to free elections in 1979 and independence (as
  Zimbabwe) in 1980. Robert MUGABE, the nation's first prime minister,
  has been the country's only ruler (as president since 1987) and has
  dominated the country's political system since independence. His
  chaotic land redistribution campaign, which began in 2000, caused an
  exodus of white farmers, crippled the economy, and ushered in
  widespread shortages of basic commodities. Ignoring international
  condemnation, MUGABE rigged the 2002 presidential election to ensure
  his reelection. The ruling ZANU-PF party used fraud and intimidation
  to win a two-thirds majority in the March 2005 parliamentary
  election, allowing it to amend the constitution at will and recreate
  the Senate, which had been abolished in the late 1980s. In April
  2005, Harare embarked on Operation Restore Order, ostensibly an
  urban rationalization program, which resulted in the destruction of
  the homes or businesses of 700,000 mostly poor supporters of the
  opposition. President MUGABE in June 2007 instituted price controls
  on all basic commodities causing panic buying and leaving store
  shelves empty for months. General elections held in March 2008
  contained irregularities but still amounted to a censure of the
  ZANU-PF-led government with significant gains in opposition seats in
  parliament. MDC opposition leader Morgan TSVANGIRAI won the
  presidential polls, and may have won an out right majority, but
  official results posted by the Zimbabwe Electoral Committee did not
  reflect this. In the lead up to a run-off election in late June
  2008, considerable violence enacted against opposition party members
  led to the withdrawal of TSVANGIRAI from the ballot. Extensive
  evidence of vote tampering and ballot-box stuffing resulted in
  international condemnation of the process, and calls for the
  creation of a power-sharing government have been ignored.

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2030  Airports - with paved runways


Afghanistan
  total: 12
  over 3,047 m: 4
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Albania
  total: 3
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 3 (2007)

Algeria
  total: 52
  over 3,047 m: 10
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 27
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 10
  914 to 1,523 m: 4
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

American Samoa
  total: 3
  over 3,047 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Angola
  total: 31
  over 3,047 m: 5
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 8
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 12
  914 to 1,523 m: 5
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Anguilla
  total: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)

Antigua and Barbuda
  total: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Argentina
  total: 154
  over 3,047 m: 4
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 26
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 65
  914 to 1,523 m: 50
  under 914 m: 9 (2007)

Armenia
  total: 10
  over 3,047 m: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
  914 to 1,523 m: 2 (2007)

Aruba
  total: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1 (2007)

Australia
  total: 317
  over 3,047 m: 11
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 12
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 138
  914 to 1,523 m: 143
  under 914 m: 13 (2007)

Austria
  total: 25
  over 3,047 m: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 5
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 3
  under 914 m: 15 (2007)

Azerbaijan
  total: 27
  over 3,047 m: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 6
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 13
  914 to 1,523 m: 4
  under 914 m: 2 (2007)

Bahamas, The
  total: 24
  over 3,047 m: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 3
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 12
  914 to 1,523 m: 7 (2007)

Bahrain
  total: 3
  over 3,047 m: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)

Bangladesh
  total: 15
  over 3,047 m: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 4
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 5 (2007)

Barbados
  total: 1
  over 3,047 m: 1 (2007)

Belarus
  total: 36
  over 3,047 m: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 22
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 7 (2007)

Belgium
  total: 27
  over 3,047 m: 6
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 7
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 9 (2007)

Belize
  total: 4
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 2 (2007)

Benin
  total: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)

Bermuda
  total: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1 (2007)

Bhutan
  total: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)

Bolivia
  total: 16
  over 3,047 m: 4
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 4
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
  914 to 1,523 m: 3 (2007)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  total: 8
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 4
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  under 914 m: 3 (2007)

Botswana
  total: 11
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 7
  914 to 1,523 m: 2 (2007)

Brazil
  total: 718
  over 3,047 m: 7
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 25
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 167
  914 to 1,523 m: 467
  under 914 m: 52 (2007)

British Indian Ocean Territory
  total: 1
  over 3,047 m: 1 (2007)

British Virgin Islands
  total: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Brunei
  total: 1
  over 3,047 m: 1 (2007)

Bulgaria
  total: 131
  over 3,047 m: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 18
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 15
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 95 (2007)

Burkina Faso
  total: 2
  over 3,047 m: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1 (2007)

Burma
  total: 25
  over 3,047 m: 8
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 10
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Burundi
  total: 1
  over 3,047 m: 1 (2007)

Cambodia
  total: 6
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 2 (2007)

Cameroon
  total: 11
  over 3,047 m: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 4
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Canada
  total: 509
  over 3,047 m: 18
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 16
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 149
  914 to 1,523 m: 248
  under 914 m: 78 (2007)

Cape Verde
  total: 8
  over 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 4
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Cayman Islands
  total: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2 (2007)

Central African Republic
  total: 3
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2 (2007)

Chad
  total: 7
  over 3,047 m: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 3
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Chile
  total: 79
  over 3,047 m: 5
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 8
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 22
  914 to 1,523 m: 25
  under 914 m: 19 (2007)

China
  total: 403
  over 3,047 m: 58
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 128
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 130
  914 to 1,523 m: 20
  under 914 m: 67 (2007)

Christmas Island
  total: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  total: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)

Colombia
  total: 103
  over 3,047 m: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 8
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 39
  914 to 1,523 m: 42
  under 914 m: 12 (2007)

Comoros
  total: 4
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 3 (2007)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  total: 26
  over 3,047 m: 4
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 17
  914 to 1,523 m: 2
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Congo, Republic of the
  total: 5
  over 3,047 m: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2 (2007)

Cook Islands
  total: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2 (2007)

Costa Rica
  total: 36
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 21
  under 914 m: 11 (2007)

Cote d'Ivoire
  total: 7
  over 3,047 m: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 4 (2007)

Croatia
  total: 23
  over 3,047 m: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 6
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 4
  under 914 m: 9 (2007)

Cuba
  total: 70
  over 3,047 m: 7
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 9
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 18
  914 to 1,523 m: 5
  under 914 m: 31 (2007)

Cyprus
  total: 13
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 7
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 3
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Czech Republic
  total: 45
  over 3,047 m: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 10
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 13
  914 to 1,523 m: 2
  under 914 m: 18 (2007)

Denmark
  total: 28
  over 3,047 m: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 7
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
  914 to 1,523 m: 12
  under 914 m: 3 (2007)

Djibouti
  total: 3
  over 3,047 m: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)

Dominica
  total: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 2 (2007)

Dominican Republic
  total: 15
  over 3,047 m: 3
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 4
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
  914 to 1,523 m: 3
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Ecuador
  total: 104
  over 3,047 m: 4
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 3
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 17
  914 to 1,523 m: 26
  under 914 m: 54 (2007)

Egypt
  total: 72
  over 3,047 m: 15
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 36
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 16
  under 914 m: 5 (2007)

El Salvador
  total: 4
  over 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 2 (2007)

Equatorial Guinea
  total: 5
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 2 (2007)

Eritrea
  total: 4
  over 3,047 m: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2 (2007)

Estonia
  total: 12
  over 3,047 m: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 7
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 3 (2007)

Ethiopia
  total: 15
  over 3,047 m: 3
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 5
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

European Union
  total: 1,991
  over 3,047m: 110
  2,438 to 3,047m: 347
  1,524 to 2,437m: 545
  914 to 1,523m: 420
  under 914m: 569 (2007)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  total: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)

Faroe Islands
  total: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)

Fiji
  total: 3
  over 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)

Finland
  total: 76
  over 3,047 m: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 27
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 10
  914 to 1,523 m: 22
  under 914 m: 15 (2007)

France
  total: 292
  over 3,047 m: 14
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 27
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 97
  914 to 1,523 m: 80
  under 914 m: 74 (2007)

French Polynesia
  total: 37
  over 3,047 m: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
  914 to 1,523 m: 27
  under 914 m: 3 (2007)

Gabon
  total: 10
  over 3,047 m: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 7
  914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)

Gambia, The
  total: 1
  over 3,047 m: 1 (2007)

Gaza Strip
  total: 1
  over 3,047 m: 1 (2007)

Georgia
  total: 19
  over 3,047 m: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 7
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
  914 to 1,523 m: 4
  under 914 m: 2 (2007)

Germany
  total: 331
  over 3,047 m: 14
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 52
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 58
  914 to 1,523 m: 72
  under 914 m: 135 (2007)

Ghana
  total: 7
  over 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
  914 to 1,523 m: 2 (2007)

Gibraltar
  total: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)

Greece
  total: 66
  over 3,047 m: 5
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 15
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 20
  914 to 1,523 m: 17
  under 914 m: 9 (2007)

Greenland
  total: 9
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 5 (2007)

Grenada
  total: 3
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Guam
  total: 4
  over 3,047 m: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)

Guatemala
  total: 12
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 3
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 4
  under 914 m: 3 (2007)

Guernsey
  total: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Guinea
  total: 5
  over 3,047 m: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 3 (2007)

Guinea-Bissau
  total: 3
  over 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)

Guyana
  total: 9
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
  under 914 m: 6 (2007)

Haiti
  total: 4
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 3 (2007)

Honduras
  total: 12
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 3
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 4
  under 914 m: 3 (2007)

Hong Kong
  total: 2
  over 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)

Hungary
  total: 20
  over 3,047 m: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 8
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
  914 to 1,523 m: 4
  under 914 m: 2 (2007)

Iceland
  total: 5
  over 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
  914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)

India
  total: 250
  over 3,047 m: 18
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 52
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 75
  914 to 1,523 m: 84
  under 914 m: 21 (2007)

Indonesia
  total: 158
  over 3,047 m: 4
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 15
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 51
  914 to 1,523 m: 49
  under 914 m: 39 (2007)

Iran
  total: 129
  over 3,047 m: 40
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 28
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 24
  914 to 1,523 m: 32
  under 914 m: 5 (2007)

Iraq
  total: 76
  over 3,047 m: 19
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 37
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
  914 to 1,523 m: 6
  under 914 m: 9 (2007)

Ireland
  total: 15
  over 3,047 m: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
  914 to 1,523 m: 4
  under 914 m: 5 (2007)

Isle of Man
  total: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)

Israel
  total: 30
  over 3,047 m: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 5
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 7
  914 to 1,523 m: 10
  under 914 m: 6 (2007)

Italy
  total: 101
  over 3,047 m: 7
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 32
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 15
  914 to 1,523 m: 34
  under 914 m: 13 (2007)

Jamaica
  total: 11
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 4
  under 914 m: 5 (2007)

Japan
  total: 145
  over 3,047 m: 7
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 41
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 40
  914 to 1,523 m: 28
  under 914 m: 29 (2007)

Jersey
  total: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)

Jordan
  total: 15
  over 3,047 m: 7
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 6
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Kazakhstan
  total: 65
  over 3,047 m: 9
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 27
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 17
  914 to 1,523 m: 4
  under 914 m: 8 (2007)

Kenya
  total: 15
  over 3,047 m: 4
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
  914 to 1,523 m: 5
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Kiribati
  total: 4
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 4 (2007)

Korea, North
  total: 36
  over 3,047 m: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 22
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 8
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 3 (2007)

Korea, South
  total: 68
  over 3,047 m: 3
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 21
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 14
  914 to 1,523 m: 11
  under 914 m: 19 (2007)

Kosovo
  total: 6
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  under 914 m: 4 (2008)

Kuwait
  total: 4
  over 3,047 m: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)

Kyrgyzstan
  total: 18
  over 3,047 m: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 3
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 11
  under 914 m: 3 (2007)

Laos
  total: 9
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
  914 to 1,523 m: 3 (2007)

Latvia
  total: 21
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 7
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
  914 to 1,523 m: 2
  under 914 m: 9 (2007)

Lebanon
  total: 5
  over 3,047 m: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Lesotho
  total: 3
  over 3,047 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Liberia
  total: 2
  over 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)

Libya
  total: 60
  over 3,047 m: 23
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 6
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 23
  914 to 1,523 m: 6
  under 914 m: 2 (2007)

Lithuania
  total: 30
  over 3,047 m: 3
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 7
  914 to 1,523 m: 2
  under 914 m: 17 (2007)

Luxembourg
  total: 1
  over 3,047 m: 1 (2007)

Macau
  total: 1
  over 3,047 m: 1 (2007)

Macedonia
  total: 10
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
  under 914 m: 8 (2007)

Madagascar
  total: 27
  over 3,047 m: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 6
  914 to 1,523 m: 17
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Malawi
  total: 6
  over 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 4 (2007)

Malaysia
  total: 36
  over 3,047 m: 5
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 9
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 8
  914 to 1,523 m: 8
  under 914 m: 6 (2007)

Maldives
  total: 3
  over 3,047 m: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)

Mali
  total: 8
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 4
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 4 (2007)

Malta
  total: 1
  over 3,047 m: 1 (2007)

Marshall Islands
  total: 4
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
  914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)

Mauritania
  total: 8
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 3
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 5 (2007)

Mauritius
  total: 2
  over 3,047 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)

Mayotte
  total: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)

Mexico
  total: 231
  over 3,047 m: 12
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 29
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 84
  914 to 1,523 m: 77
  under 914 m: 29 (2007)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  total: 6
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
  914 to 1,523 m: 2 (2007)

Moldova
  total: 6
  over 3,047 m: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Mongolia
  total: 13
  over 3,047 m: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 10
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2 (2007)

Montenegro
  total: 3
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)

Montserrat
  total: 2
  under 914 m: 2 (2007)

Morocco
  total: 27
  over 3,047 m: 11
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 6
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 7
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 2 (2007)

Mozambique
  total: 22
  over 3,047 m: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 3
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 10
  914 to 1,523 m: 3
  under 914 m: 5 (2007)

Namibia
  total: 21
  over 3,047 m: 3
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 13
  914 to 1,523 m: 3 (2007)

Nauru
  total: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)

Nepal
  total: 10
  over 3,047 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 8
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Netherlands
  total: 20
  over 3,047 m: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 9
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
  914 to 1,523 m: 4
  under 914 m: 2 (2007)

Netherlands Antilles
  total: 5
  over 3,047 m: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

New Caledonia
  total: 12
  over 3,047 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 9
  under 914 m: 2 (2007)

New Zealand
  total: 41
  over 3,047 m: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 11
  914 to 1,523 m: 26
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Nicaragua
  total: 11
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 3
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 3
  under 914 m: 3 (2007)

Niger
  total: 9
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 3
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Nigeria
  total: 36
  over 3,047 m: 6
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 12
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 10
  914 to 1,523 m: 6
  under 914 m: 2 (2007)

Niue
  total: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)

Norfolk Island
  total: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)

Northern Mariana Islands
  total: 3
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)

Norway
  total: 67
  over 3,047 m: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 12
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 12
  914 to 1,523 m: 13
  under 914 m: 29 (2007)

Oman
  total: 7
  over 3,047 m: 4
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)

Pakistan
  total: 92
  over 3,047 m: 16
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 19
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 29
  914 to 1,523 m: 18
  under 914 m: 10 (2007)

Palau
  total: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)

Panama
  total: 54
  over 3,047 m: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
  914 to 1,523 m: 18
  under 914 m: 29 (2007)

Papua New Guinea
  total: 21
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 14
  914 to 1,523 m: 4
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Paracel Islands
  total: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)

Paraguay
  total: 13
  over 3,047 m: 3
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
  914 to 1,523 m: 5 (2007)

Peru
  total: 54
  over 3,047 m: 6
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 20
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 14
  914 to 1,523 m: 11
  under 914 m: 3 (2007)

Philippines
  total: 84
  over 3,047 m: 4
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 8
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 26
  914 to 1,523 m: 36
  under 914 m: 10 (2007)

Poland
  total: 83
  over 3,047 m: 4
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 30
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 39
  914 to 1,523 m: 7
  under 914 m: 3 (2007)

Portugal
  total: 44
  over 3,047 m: 5
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 9
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
  914 to 1,523 m: 13
  under 914 m: 12 (2007)

Puerto Rico
  total: 17
  over 3,047 m: 3
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 7
  under 914 m: 5 (2007)

Qatar
  total: 3
  over 3,047 m: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)

Romania
  total: 25
  over 3,047 m: 3
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 9
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 12
  914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)

Russia
  total: 601
  over 3,047 m: 51
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 197
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 129
  914 to 1,523 m: 102
  under 914 m: 122 (2007)

Rwanda
  total: 4
  over 3,047 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 2
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Saint Barthelemy
  total: 1
  under 914 m: 1

Saint Helena
  total: 1
  over 3,047 m: 1 (2007)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  total: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)

Saint Lucia
  total: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)

Saint Martin
  total: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 1

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  total: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  total: 5
  914 to 1,523 m: 4
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Samoa
  total: 3
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  under 914 m: 2 (2007)

Sao Tome and Principe
  total: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)

Saudi Arabia
  total: 77
  over 3,047 m: 32
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 15
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 26
  914 to 1,523 m: 2
  under 914 m: 2 (2007)

Senegal
  total: 9
  over 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 7
  914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)

Serbia
  total: 16
  over 3,047 m: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 4
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
  914 to 1,523 m: 2
  under 914 m: 4 (2007)

Seychelles
  total: 9
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 6
  under 914 m: 2 (2007)

Sierra Leone
  total: 1
  over 3,047 m: 1 (2007)

Singapore
  total: 8
  over 3,047 m: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
  914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)

Slovakia
  total: 20
  over 3,047 m: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
  914 to 1,523 m: 3
  under 914 m: 10 (2007)

Slovenia
  total: 6
  over 3,047 m: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 2
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Solomon Islands
  total: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)

Somalia
  total: 7
  over 3,047 m: 4
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)

South Africa
  total: 146
  over 3,047 m: 10
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 5
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 51
  914 to 1,523 m: 67
  under 914 m: 13 (2007)

Spain
  total: 96
  over 3,047 m: 18
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 11
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 18
  914 to 1,523 m: 25
  under 914 m: 24 (2007)

Spratly Islands
  total: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Sri Lanka
  total: 14
  over 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 6
  914 to 1,523 m: 7 (2007)

Sudan
  total: 16
  over 3,047 m: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 9
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Suriname
  total: 5
  over 3,047 m: 1
  under 914 m: 4 (2007)

Svalbard
  total: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)

Swaziland
  total: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1 (2007)

Sweden
  total: 152
  over 3,047 m: 3
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 12
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 75
  914 to 1,523 m: 24
  under 914 m: 38 (2007)

Switzerland
  total: 42
  over 3,047 m: 3
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 4
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 12
  914 to 1,523 m: 7
  under 914 m: 16 (2007)

Syria
  total: 26
  over 3,047 m: 6
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 15
  914 to 1,523 m: 3
  under 914 m: 2 (2007)

Taiwan
  total: 38
  over 3,047 m: 8
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 9
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 11
  914 to 1,523 m: 7
  under 914 m: 3 (2007)

Tajikistan
  total: 18
  over 3,047 m: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 4
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 6
  914 to 1,523 m: 3
  under 914 m: 3 (2007)

Tanzania
  total: 10
  over 3,047 m: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
  914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)

Thailand
  total: 65
  over 3,047 m: 8
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 11
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 23
  914 to 1,523 m: 17
  under 914 m: 6 (2007)

Timor-Leste
  total: 3
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Togo
  total: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2 (2007)

Tonga
  total: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1 (2007)

Trinidad and Tobago
  total: 3
  over 3,047 m: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)

Tunisia
  total: 14
  over 3,047 m: 3
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 6
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 3 (2007)

Turkey
  total: 90
  over 3,047 m: 15
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 33
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 19
  914 to 1,523 m: 19
  under 914 m: 4 (2007)

Turkmenistan
  total: 22
  over 3,047 m: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 11
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 8
  914 to 1,523 m: 2 (2007)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  total: 6
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 2 (2007)

Uganda
  total: 5
  over 3,047 m: 3
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)

Ukraine
  total: 193
  over 3,047 m: 13
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 53
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 27
  914 to 1,523 m: 5
  under 914 m: 95 (2007)

United Arab Emirates
  total: 22
  over 3,047 m: 10
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 3
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 4
  under 914 m: 3 (2007)

United Kingdom
  total: 310
  over 3,047 m: 8
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 33
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 131
  914 to 1,523 m: 79
  under 914 m: 59 (2007)

United States
  total: 5,143
  over 3,047 m: 191
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 224
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1,452
  914 to 1,523 m: 2,323
  under 914 m: 953 (2007)

Uruguay
  total: 9
  over 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
  914 to 1,523 m: 2
  under 914 m: 2 (2007)

Uzbekistan
  total: 33
  over 3,047 m: 6
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 13
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
  914 to 1,523 m: 5
  under 914 m: 4 (2007)

Vanuatu
  total: 3
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)

Venezuela
  total: 128
  over 3,047 m: 5
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 10
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 34
  914 to 1,523 m: 61
  under 914 m: 18 (2007)

Vietnam
  total: 37
  over 3,047 m: 9
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 5
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 13
  914 to 1,523 m: 10 (2007)

Virgin Islands
  total: 2
  over 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)

Wake Island
  total: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1 (2007)

Wallis and Futuna
  total: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)

West Bank
  total: 3
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Western Sahara
  total: 3
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 3 (2007)

Yemen
  total: 17
  over 3,047 m: 4
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 8
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Zambia
  total: 9
  over 3,047 m: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
  914 to 1,523 m: 2 (2007)

Zimbabwe
  total: 19
  over 3,047 m: 3
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
  914 to 1,523 m: 10 (2007)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2031  Airports - with unpaved runways


Afghanistan
  total: 34
  over 3,047 m: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 4
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 16
  914 to 1,523 m: 4
  under 914 m: 9 (2007)

Albania
  total: 8
  over 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 4 (2007)

Algeria
  total: 98
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 3
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 26
  914 to 1,523 m: 44
  under 914 m: 25 (2007)

Angola
  total: 201
  over 3,047 m: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 5
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 30
  914 to 1,523 m: 95
  under 914 m: 69 (2007)

Anguilla
  total: 2
  under 914 m: 2 (2007)

Antarctica
  total: 27
  over 3,047 m: 6
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 5
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 9
  under 914 m: 6 (2008)

Antigua and Barbuda
  total: 1
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Argentina
  total: 1,118
  over 3,047 m: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 44
  914 to 1,523 m: 515
  under 914 m: 556 (2007)

Armenia
  total: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)

Australia
  total: 144
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 19
  914 to 1,523 m: 109
  under 914 m: 16 (2007)

Austria
  total: 30
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 3
  under 914 m: 26 (2007)

Azerbaijan
  total: 8
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 7 (2007)

Bahamas, The
  total: 38
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
  914 to 1,523 m: 11
  under 914 m: 22 (2007)

Bangladesh
  total: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)

Belarus
  total: 31
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 2
  under 914 m: 27 (2007)

Belgium
  total: 16
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 15 (2007)

Belize
  total: 40
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 12
  under 914 m: 27 (2007)

Benin
  total: 4
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 2 (2007)

Bhutan
  total: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)

Bolivia
  total: 1,045
  over 3,047 m: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 4
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 57
  914 to 1,523 m: 183
  under 914 m: 800 (2007)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  total: 20
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 7
  under 914 m: 12 (2007)

Botswana
  total: 74
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
  914 to 1,523 m: 54
  under 914 m: 17 (2007)

Brazil
  total: 3,545
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 83
  914 to 1,523 m: 1,555
  under 914 m: 1,907 (2007)

British Virgin Islands
  total: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)

Brunei
  total: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)

Bulgaria
  total: 83
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 9
  under 914 m: 72 (2007)

Burkina Faso
  total: 31
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
  914 to 1,523 m: 11
  under 914 m: 17 (2007)

Burma
  total: 61
  over 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 14
  914 to 1,523 m: 14
  under 914 m: 32 (2007)

Burundi
  total: 7
  914 to 1,523 m: 4
  under 914 m: 3 (2007)

Cambodia
  total: 11
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 9
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Cameroon
  total: 34
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 6
  914 to 1,523 m: 20
  under 914 m: 8 (2007)

Canada
  total: 834
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 68
  914 to 1,523 m: 356
  under 914 m: 410 (2007)

Cayman Islands
  total: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)

Central African Republic
  total: 48
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 10
  914 to 1,523 m: 24
  under 914 m: 13 (2007)

Chad
  total: 48
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 16
  914 to 1,523 m: 21
  under 914 m: 11 (2007)

Chile
  total: 279
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 12
  914 to 1,523 m: 49
  under 914 m: 216 (2007)

China
  total: 64
  over 3,047 m: 4
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 4
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 13
  914 to 1,523 m: 17
  under 914 m: 26 (2007)

Colombia
  total: 831
  over 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 34
  914 to 1,523 m: 216
  under 914 m: 580 (2007)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  total: 211
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 17
  914 to 1,523 m: 95
  under 914 m: 99 (2007)

Congo, Republic of the
  total: 26
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 7
  914 to 1,523 m: 10
  under 914 m: 9 (2007)

Cook Islands
  total: 7
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 4
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Costa Rica
  total: 115
  914 to 1,523 m: 19
  under 914 m: 96 (2007)

Cote d'Ivoire
  total: 27
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 8
  914 to 1,523 m: 14
  under 914 m: 5 (2007)

Croatia
  total: 45
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 7
  under 914 m: 37 (2007)

Cuba
  total: 95
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 23
  under 914 m: 71 (2007)

Cyprus
  total: 3
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  under 914 m: 2 (2007)

Czech Republic
  total: 77
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 26
  under 914 m: 50 (2007)

Denmark
  total: 63
  914 to 1,523 m: 3
  under 914 m: 60 (2007)

Djibouti
  total: 10
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 5
  under 914 m: 3 (2007)

Dominican Republic
  total: 19
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
  914 to 1,523 m: 5
  under 914 m: 11 (2007)

Ecuador
  total: 302
  914 to 1,523 m: 34
  under 914 m: 268 (2007)

Egypt
  total: 16
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
  914 to 1,523 m: 5
  under 914 m: 7 (2007)

El Salvador
  total: 61
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 12
  under 914 m: 48 (2007)

Eritrea
  total: 14
  over 3,047 m: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 6
  914 to 1,523 m: 4
  under 914 m: 2 (2007)

Estonia
  total: 7
  over 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 3 (2007)

Ethiopia
  total: 69
  over 3,047 m: 3
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 5
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 11
  914 to 1,523 m: 29
  under 914 m: 21 (2007)

European Union
  total: 1,373
  over 3,047m: 2
  2,438 to 3,047m: 5
  1,524 to 2,437m: 30
  914m to 1,523m: 267
  under 914m: 1,043 (2007)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  total: 4
  under 914 m: 4 (2007)

Fiji
  total: 25
  914 to 1,523 m: 7
  under 914 m: 18 (2007)

Finland
  total: 72
  914 to 1,523 m: 4
  under 914 m: 68 (2007)

France
  total: 184
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
  914 to 1,523 m: 72
  under 914 m: 108 (2007)

French Polynesia
  total: 17
  914 to 1,523 m: 9
  under 914 m: 8 (2007)

Gabon
  total: 43
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 7
  914 to 1,523 m: 13
  under 914 m: 23 (2007)

Gaza Strip
  total: 1
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Georgia
  total: 4
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 2
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Germany
  total: 219
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
  914 to 1,523 m: 34
  under 914 m: 181 (2007)

Ghana
  total: 5
  914 to 1,523 m: 3
  under 914 m: 2 (2007)

Greece
  total: 15
  914 to 1,523 m: 3
  under 914 m: 12 (2007)

Greenland
  total: 5
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 2
  under 914 m: 2 (2007)

Guam
  total: 1
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Guatemala
  total: 390
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 6
  914 to 1,523 m: 82
  under 914 m: 301 (2007)

Guinea
  total: 11
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 6
  914 to 1,523 m: 3
  under 914 m: 2 (2007)

Guinea-Bissau
  total: 24
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 4
  under 914 m: 19 (2007)

Guyana
  total: 84
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 14
  under 914 m: 69 (2007)

Haiti
  total: 10
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 9 (2007)

Honduras
  total: 100
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 15
  under 914 m: 83 (2007)

Hungary
  total: 26
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
  914 to 1,523 m: 11
  under 914 m: 10 (2007)

Iceland
  total: 94
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
  914 to 1,523 m: 28
  under 914 m: 63 (2007)

India
  total: 96
  over 3,047 m: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 7
  914 to 1,523 m: 40
  under 914 m: 47 (2007)

Indonesia
  total: 494
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
  914 to 1,523 m: 27
  under 914 m: 462 (2007)

Iran
  total: 202
  over 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 10
  914 to 1,523 m: 145
  under 914 m: 46 (2007)

Iraq
  total: 34
  over 3,047 m: 3
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 4
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
  914 to 1,523 m: 13
  under 914 m: 10 (2007)

Ireland
  total: 19
  914 to 1,523 m: 3
  under 914 m: 16 (2007)

Israel
  total: 23
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 2
  under 914 m: 20 (2007)

Italy
  total: 31
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 11
  under 914 m: 19 (2007)

Jamaica
  total: 23
  914 to 1,523 m: 2
  under 914 m: 21 (2007)

Jan Mayen
  total: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)

Japan
  total: 31
  914 to 1,523 m: 4
  under 914 m: 27 (2007)

Jordan
  total: 2
  under 914 m: 2 (2007)

Kazakhstan
  total: 32
  over 3,047 m: 4
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 6
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 6
  914 to 1,523 m: 4
  under 914 m: 12 (2007)

Kenya
  total: 210
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 12
  914 to 1,523 m: 113
  under 914 m: 85 (2007)

Kiribati
  total: 15
  914 to 1,523 m: 11
  under 914 m: 4 (2007)

Korea, North
  total: 41
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 19
  914 to 1,523 m: 13
  under 914 m: 7 (2007)

Korea, South
  total: 37
  914 to 1,523 m: 3
  under 914 m: 34 (2007)

Kosovo
  total: 4
  under 914 m: 4 (2008)

Kuwait
  total: 3
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  under 914 m: 2 (2007)

Kyrgyzstan
  total: 12
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 10 (2007)

Laos
  total: 33
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 9
  under 914 m: 23 (2007)

Latvia
  total: 21
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 20 (2007)

Lebanon
  total: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 2 (2007)

Lesotho
  total: 25
  914 to 1,523 m: 4
  under 914 m: 21 (2007)

Liberia
  total: 51
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
  914 to 1,523 m: 8
  under 914 m: 38 (2007)

Libya
  total: 81
  over 3,047 m: 5
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 15
  914 to 1,523 m: 41
  under 914 m: 18 (2007)

Lithuania
  total: 57
  over 3,047 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 3
  under 914 m: 53 (2007)

Luxembourg
  total: 1
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Macedonia
  total: 7
  914 to 1,523 m: 3
  under 914 m: 4 (2007)

Madagascar
  total: 77
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 41
  under 914 m: 34 (2007)

Malawi
  total: 33
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 16
  under 914 m: 16 (2007)

Malaysia
  total: 80
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 7
  under 914 m: 72 (2007)

Maldives
  total: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 2 (2007)

Mali
  total: 21
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
  914 to 1,523 m: 7
  under 914 m: 8 (2007)

Marshall Islands
  total: 11
  914 to 1,523 m: 10
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Mauritania
  total: 17
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 9
  914 to 1,523 m: 7
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Mauritius
  total: 3
  914 to 1,523 m: 2
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Mexico
  total: 1,603
  over 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 63
  914 to 1,523 m: 408
  under 914 m: 1,131 (2007)

Moldova
  total: 4
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Mongolia
  total: 31
  over 3,047 m: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 5
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 23
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Montenegro
  total: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Morocco
  total: 33
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 9
  914 to 1,523 m: 11
  under 914 m: 11 (2007)

Mozambique
  total: 125
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 9
  914 to 1,523 m: 36
  under 914 m: 79 (2007)

Namibia
  total: 116
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 22
  914 to 1,523 m: 72
  under 914 m: 20 (2007)

Nepal
  total: 37
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 6
  under 914 m: 30 (2007)

Netherlands
  total: 7
  914 to 1,523 m: 3
  under 914 m: 4 (2007)

New Caledonia
  total: 13
  914 to 1,523 m: 7
  under 914 m: 6 (2007)

New Zealand
  total: 80
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
  914 to 1,523 m: 31
  under 914 m: 46 (2007)

Nicaragua
  total: 152
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 16
  under 914 m: 135 (2007)

Niger
  total: 19
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 14
  under 914 m: 3 (2007)

Nigeria
  total: 34
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 14
  under 914 m: 19 (2007)

Northern Mariana Islands
  total: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Norway
  total: 31
  914 to 1,523 m: 6
  under 914 m: 25 (2007)

Oman
  total: 130
  over 3,047 m: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 8
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 51
  914 to 1,523 m: 35
  under 914 m: 34 (2007)

Pakistan
  total: 54
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 16
  914 to 1,523 m: 13
  under 914 m: 24 (2007)

Palau
  total: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2 (2007)

Panama
  total: 62
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 11
  under 914 m: 50 (2007)

Papua New Guinea
  total: 557
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 10
  914 to 1,523 m: 58
  under 914 m: 489 (2007)

Paraguay
  total: 825
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 26
  914 to 1,523 m: 267
  under 914 m: 532 (2007)

Peru
  total: 183
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 24
  914 to 1,523 m: 40
  under 914 m: 117 (2007)

Philippines
  total: 171
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
  914 to 1,523 m: 68
  under 914 m: 99 (2007)

Poland
  total: 40
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
  914 to 1,523 m: 13
  under 914 m: 22 (2007)

Portugal
  total: 22
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 21 (2007)

Puerto Rico
  total: 12
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 10 (2007)

Qatar
  total: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Romania
  total: 36
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 12
  under 914 m: 22 (2007)

Russia
  total: 659
  over 3,047 m: 4
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 13
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 69
  914 to 1,523 m: 89
  under 914 m: 484 (2007)

Rwanda
  total: 5
  914 to 1,523 m: 2
  under 914 m: 3 (2007)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  total: 1
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Samoa
  total: 1
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Saudi Arabia
  total: 136
  over 3,047 m: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 8
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 73
  914 to 1,523 m: 39
  under 914 m: 15 (2007)

Senegal
  total: 11
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 6
  914 to 1,523 m: 4
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Serbia
  total: 23
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 9
  under 914 m: 12 (2007)

Seychelles
  total: 6
  914 to 1,523 m: 2
  under 914 m: 4 (2007)

Sierra Leone
  total: 9
  914 to 1,523 m: 7
  under 914 m: 2 (2007)

Slovakia
  total: 15
  914 to 1,523 m: 8
  under 914 m: 7 (2007)

Slovenia
  total: 8
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 2
  under 914 m: 4 (2007)

Solomon Islands
  total: 33
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 9
  under 914 m: 23 (2007)

Somalia
  total: 60
  over 3,047 m: 1
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 3
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 20
  914 to 1,523 m: 29
  under 914 m: 7 (2007)

South Africa
  total: 582
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 34
  914 to 1,523 m: 300
  under 914 m: 248 (2007)

Spain
  total: 58
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 14
  under 914 m: 42 (2007)

Spratly Islands
  total: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)

Sri Lanka
  total: 4
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 3 (2007)

Sudan
  total: 85
  over 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 20
  914 to 1,523 m: 37
  under 914 m: 27 (2007)

Suriname
  total: 45
  914 to 1,523 m: 5
  under 914 m: 40 (2007)

Svalbard
  total: 3
  under 914 m: 3 (2007)

Swaziland
  total: 17
  914 to 1,523 m: 7
  under 914 m: 10 (2007)

Sweden
  total: 98
  914 to 1,523 m: 6
  under 914 m: 92 (2007)

Switzerland
  total: 23
  under 914 m: 23 (2007)

Syria
  total: 64
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 11
  under 914 m: 52 (2007)

Taiwan
  total: 3
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  under 914 m: 2 (2007)

Tajikistan
  total: 8
  under 914 m: 8 (2007)

Tanzania
  total: 114
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 17
  914 to 1,523 m: 63
  under 914 m: 34 (2007)

Thailand
  total: 41
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 12
  under 914 m: 28 (2007)

Timor-Leste
  total: 5
  914 to 1,523 m: 3
  under 914 m: 2 (2007)

Togo
  total: 7
  914 to 1,523 m: 4
  under 914 m: 3 (2007)

Tonga
  total: 5
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 3
  under 914 m: 1 (2007)

Trinidad and Tobago
  total: 3
  914 to 1,523 m: 1
  under 914 m: 2 (2007)

Tunisia
  total: 16
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 7
  under 914 m: 7 (2007)

Turkey
  total: 27
  over 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 7
  under 914 m: 17 (2007)

Turkmenistan
  total: 6
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
  under 914 m: 4 (2007)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  total: 2
  under 914 m: 2 (2007)

Tuvalu
  total: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (2007)

Uganda
  total: 27
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 6
  914 to 1,523 m: 11
  under 914 m: 9 (2007)

Ukraine
  total: 244
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 3
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 11
  914 to 1,523 m: 13
  under 914 m: 217 (2007)

United Arab Emirates
  total: 17
  over 3,047 m: 2
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
  914 to 1,523 m: 5
  under 914 m: 5 (2007)

United Kingdom
  total: 139
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 2
  914 to 1,523 m: 23
  under 914 m: 113 (2007)

United States
  total: 9,804
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 7
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 153
  914 to 1,523 m: 1,732
  under 914 m: 7,912 (2007)

Uruguay
  total: 51
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 3
  914 to 1,523 m: 19
  under 914 m: 29 (2007)

Uzbekistan
  total: 21
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 2
  under 914 m: 19 (2007)

Vanuatu
  total: 28
  914 to 1,523 m: 6
  under 914 m: 22 (2007)

Venezuela
  total: 262
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 15
  914 to 1,523 m: 97
  under 914 m: 149 (2007)

Vietnam
  total: 7
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 3
  under 914 m: 3 (2007)

Wallis and Futuna
  total: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007)

Western Sahara
  total: 6
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 1
  914 to 1,523 m: 3
  under 914 m: 2 (2007)

Yemen
  total: 33
  over 3,047 m: 3
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 8
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 5
  914 to 1,523 m: 13
  under 914 m: 4 (2007)

Zambia
  total: 98
  2,438 to 3,047 m: 1
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
  914 to 1,523 m: 64
  under 914 m: 29 (2007)

Zimbabwe
  total: 322
  1,524 to 2,437 m: 4
  914 to 1,523 m: 152
  under 914 m: 166 (2007)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2032  Environment - current issues


Afghanistan
  limited natural fresh water resources; inadequate
  supplies of potable water; soil degradation; overgrazing;
  deforestation (much of the remaining forests are being cut down for
  fuel and building materials); desertification; air and water
  pollution

Akrotiri
  shooting around the salt lake; note - breeding place for
  loggerhead and green turtles; only remaining colony of griffon
  vultures is on the base

Albania
  deforestation; soil erosion; water pollution from industrial
  and domestic effluents

Algeria
  soil erosion from overgrazing and other poor farming
  practices; desertification; dumping of raw sewage, petroleum
  refining wastes, and other industrial effluents is leading to the
  pollution of rivers and coastal waters; Mediterranean Sea, in
  particular, becoming polluted from oil wastes, soil erosion, and
  fertilizer runoff; inadequate supplies of potable water

American Samoa
  limited natural fresh water resources; the water
  division of the government has spent substantial funds in the past
  few years to improve water catchments and pipelines

Andorra
  deforestation; overgrazing of mountain meadows contributes
  to soil erosion; air pollution; wastewater treatment and solid waste
  disposal

Angola
  overuse of pastures and subsequent soil erosion attributable
  to population pressures; desertification; deforestation of tropical
  rain forest, in response to both international demand for tropical
  timber and to domestic use as fuel, resulting in loss of
  biodiversity; soil erosion contributing to water pollution and
  siltation of rivers and dams; inadequate supplies of potable water

Anguilla
  supplies of potable water sometimes cannot meet increasing
  demand largely because of poor distribution system

Antarctica
  in 1998, NASA satellite data showed that the Antarctic
  ozone hole was the largest on record, covering 27 million square
  kilometers; researchers in 1997 found that increased ultraviolet
  light passing through the hole damages the DNA of icefish, an
  Antarctic fish lacking hemoglobin; ozone depletion earlier was shown
  to harm one-celled Antarctic marine plants; in 2002, significant
  areas of ice shelves disintegrated in response to regional warming

Antigua and Barbuda
  water management - a major concern because of
  limited natural fresh water resources - is further hampered by the
  clearing of trees to increase crop production, causing rainfall to
  run off quickly

Arctic Ocean
  endangered marine species include walruses and whales;
  fragile ecosystem slow to change and slow to recover from
  disruptions or damage; thinning polar icepack

Argentina
  environmental problems (urban and rural) typical of an
  industrializing economy such as deforestation, soil degradation,
  desertification, air pollution, and water pollution
  note: Argentina is a world leader in setting voluntary greenhouse
  gas targets

Armenia
  soil pollution from toxic chemicals such as DDT; the energy
  crisis of the 1990s led to deforestation when citizens scavenged for
  firewood; pollution of Hrazdan (Razdan) and Aras Rivers; the
  draining of Sevana Lich (Lake Sevan), a result of its use as a
  source for hydropower, threatens drinking water supplies; restart of
  Metsamor nuclear power plant in spite of its location in a
  seismically active zone

Aruba
  NA

Ashmore and Cartier Islands
  illegal killing of protected wildlife by
  traditional Indonesian fisherman, as well as fishing by
  non-traditional Indonesian vessels, are ongoing problems

Atlantic Ocean
  endangered marine species include the manatee, seals,
  sea lions, turtles, and whales; drift net fishing is hastening the
  decline of fish stocks and contributing to international disputes;
  municipal sludge pollution off eastern US, southern Brazil, and
  eastern Argentina; oil pollution in Caribbean Sea, Gulf of Mexico,
  Lake Maracaibo, Mediterranean Sea, and North Sea; industrial waste
  and municipal sewage pollution in Baltic Sea, North Sea, and
  Mediterranean Sea

Australia
  soil erosion from overgrazing, industrial development,
  urbanization, and poor farming practices; soil salinity rising due
  to the use of poor quality water; desertification; clearing for
  agricultural purposes threatens the natural habitat of many unique
  animal and plant species; the Great Barrier Reef off the northeast
  coast, the largest coral reef in the world, is threatened by
  increased shipping and its popularity as a tourist site; limited
  natural fresh water resources

Austria
  some forest degradation caused by air and soil pollution;
  soil pollution results from the use of agricultural chemicals; air
  pollution results from emissions by coal- and oil-fired power
  stations and industrial plants and from trucks transiting Austria
  between northern and southern Europe

Azerbaijan
  local scientists consider the Abseron Yasaqligi (Apsheron
  Peninsula) (including Baku and Sumqayit) and the Caspian Sea to be
  the ecologically most devastated area in the world because of severe
  air, soil, and water pollution; soil pollution results from oil
  spills, from the use of DDT pesticide, and from toxic defoliants
  used in the production of cotton

Bahamas, The
  coral reef decay; solid waste disposal

Bahrain
  desertification resulting from the degradation of limited
  arable land, periods of drought, and dust storms; coastal
  degradation (damage to coastlines, coral reefs, and sea vegetation)
  resulting from oil spills and other discharges from large tankers,
  oil refineries, and distribution stations; lack of freshwater
  resources (groundwater and seawater are the only sources for all
  water needs)

Bangladesh
  many people are landless and forced to live on and
  cultivate flood-prone land; waterborne diseases prevalent in surface
  water; water pollution, especially of fishing areas, results from
  the use of commercial pesticides; ground water contaminated by
  naturally occurring arsenic; intermittent water shortages because of
  falling water tables in the northern and central parts of the
  country; soil degradation and erosion; deforestation; severe
  overpopulation

Barbados
  pollution of coastal waters from waste disposal by ships;
  soil erosion; illegal solid waste disposal threatens contamination
  of aquifers

Belarus
  soil pollution from pesticide use; southern part of the
  country contaminated with fallout from 1986 nuclear reactor accident
  at Chornobyl' in northern Ukraine

Belgium
  the environment is exposed to intense pressures from human
  activities: urbanization, dense transportation network, industry,
  extensive animal breeding and crop cultivation; air and water
  pollution also have repercussions for neighboring countries;
  uncertainties regarding federal and regional responsibilities (now
  resolved) had slowed progress in tackling environmental challenges

Belize
  deforestation; water pollution from sewage, industrial
  effluents, agricultural runoff; solid and sewage waste disposal

Benin
  inadequate supplies of potable water; poaching threatens
  wildlife populations; deforestation; desertification

Bermuda
  sustainable development

Bhutan
  soil erosion; limited access to potable water

Bolivia
  the clearing of land for agricultural purposes and the
  international demand for tropical timber are contributing to
  deforestation; soil erosion from overgrazing and poor cultivation
  methods (including slash-and-burn agriculture); desertification;
  loss of biodiversity; industrial pollution of water supplies used
  for drinking and irrigation

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  air pollution from metallurgical plants;
  sites for disposing of urban waste are limited; water shortages and
  destruction of infrastructure because of the 1992-95 civil strife;
  deforestation

Botswana
  overgrazing; desertification; limited fresh water resources

Bouvet Island
  NA

Brazil
  deforestation in Amazon Basin destroys the habitat and
  endangers a multitude of plant and animal species indigenous to the
  area; there is a lucrative illegal wildlife trade; air and water
  pollution in Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo, and several other large
  cities; land degradation and water pollution caused by improper
  mining activities; wetland degradation; severe oil spills

British Indian Ocean Territory
  NA

British Virgin Islands
  limited natural fresh water resources (except
  for a few seasonal streams and springs on Tortola, most of the
  islands' water supply comes from wells and rainwater catchments)

Brunei
  seasonal smoke/haze resulting from forest fires in Indonesia

Bulgaria
  air pollution from industrial emissions; rivers polluted
  from raw sewage, heavy metals, detergents; deforestation; forest
  damage from air pollution and resulting acid rain; soil
  contamination from heavy metals from metallurgical plants and
  industrial wastes

Burkina Faso
  recent droughts and desertification severely affecting
  agricultural activities, population distribution, and the economy;
  overgrazing; soil degradation; deforestation

Burma
  deforestation; industrial pollution of air, soil, and water;
  inadequate sanitation and water treatment contribute to disease

Burundi
  soil erosion as a result of overgrazing and the expansion of
  agriculture into marginal lands; deforestation (little forested land
  remains because of uncontrolled cutting of trees for fuel); habitat
  loss threatens wildlife populations

Cambodia
  illegal logging activities throughout the country and strip
  mining for gems in the western region along the border with Thailand
  have resulted in habitat loss and declining biodiversity (in
  particular, destruction of mangrove swamps threatens natural
  fisheries); soil erosion; in rural areas, most of the population
  does not have access to potable water; declining fish stocks because
  of illegal fishing and overfishing

Cameroon
  waterborne diseases are prevalent; deforestation;
  overgrazing; desertification; poaching; overfishing

Canada
  air pollution and resulting acid rain severely affecting
  lakes and damaging forests; metal smelting, coal-burning utilities,
  and vehicle emissions impacting on agricultural and forest
  productivity; ocean waters becoming contaminated due to
  agricultural, industrial, mining, and forestry activities

Cape Verde
  soil erosion; deforestation due to demand for wood used
  as fuel; water shortages; desertification; environmental damage has
  threatened several species of birds and reptiles; illegal beach sand
  extraction; overfishing

Cayman Islands
  no natural fresh water resources; drinking water
  supplies must be met by rainwater catchments

Central African Republic
  tap water is not potable; poaching has
  diminished the country's reputation as one of the last great
  wildlife refuges; desertification; deforestation

Chad
  inadequate supplies of potable water; improper waste disposal
  in rural areas contributes to soil and water pollution;
  desertification

Chile
  widespread deforestation and mining threaten natural
  resources; air pollution from industrial and vehicle emissions;
  water pollution from raw sewage

China
  air pollution (greenhouse gases, sulfur dioxide particulates)
  from reliance on coal produces acid rain; water shortages,
  particularly in the north; water pollution from untreated wastes;
  deforestation; estimated loss of one-fifth of agricultural land
  since 1949 to soil erosion and economic development;
  desertification; trade in endangered species

Christmas Island
  loss of rainforest; impact of phosphate mining

Clipperton Island
  NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  fresh water resources are limited to
  rainwater accumulations in natural underground reservoirs

Colombia
  deforestation; soil and water quality damage from overuse
  of pesticides; air pollution, especially in Bogota, from vehicle
  emissions

Comoros
  soil degradation and erosion results from crop cultivation
  on slopes without proper terracing; deforestation

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  poaching threatens wildlife
  populations; water pollution; deforestation; refugees responsible
  for significant deforestation, soil erosion, and wildlife poaching;
  mining of minerals (coltan - a mineral used in creating capacitors,
  diamonds, and gold) causing environmental damage

Congo, Republic of the
  air pollution from vehicle emissions; water
  pollution from the dumping of raw sewage; tap water is not potable;
  deforestation

Cook Islands
  NA

Coral Sea Islands
  no permanent fresh water resources

Costa Rica
  deforestation and land use change, largely a result of
  the clearing of land for cattle ranching and agriculture; soil
  erosion; coastal marine pollution; fisheries protection; solid waste
  management; air pollution

Cote d'Ivoire
  deforestation (most of the country's forests - once
  the largest in West Africa - have been heavily logged); water
  pollution from sewage and industrial and agricultural effluents

Croatia
  air pollution (from metallurgical plants) and resulting acid
  rain is damaging the forests; coastal pollution from industrial and
  domestic waste; landmine removal and reconstruction of
  infrastructure consequent to 1992-95 civil strife

Cuba
  air and water pollution; biodiversity loss; deforestation

Cyprus
  water resource problems (no natural reservoir catchments,
  seasonal disparity in rainfall, sea water intrusion to island's
  largest aquifer, increased salination in the north); water pollution
  from sewage and industrial wastes; coastal degradation; loss of
  wildlife habitats from urbanization

Czech Republic
  air and water pollution in areas of northwest Bohemia
  and in northern Moravia around Ostrava present health risks; acid
  rain damaging forests; efforts to bring industry up to EU code
  should improve domestic pollution

Denmark
  air pollution, principally from vehicle and power plant
  emissions; nitrogen and phosphorus pollution of the North Sea;
  drinking and surface water becoming polluted from animal wastes and
  pesticides

Dhekelia
  netting and trapping of small migrant songbirds in the
  spring and autumn

Djibouti
  inadequate supplies of potable water; limited arable land;
  desertification; endangered species

Dominica
  NA

Dominican Republic
  water shortages; soil eroding into the sea
  damages coral reefs; deforestation

Ecuador
  deforestation; soil erosion; desertification; water
  pollution; pollution from oil production wastes in ecologically
  sensitive areas of the Amazon Basin and Galapagos Islands

Egypt
  agricultural land being lost to urbanization and windblown
  sands; increasing soil salination below Aswan High Dam;
  desertification; oil pollution threatening coral reefs, beaches, and
  marine habitats; other water pollution from agricultural pesticides,
  raw sewage, and industrial effluents; limited natural fresh water
  resources away from the Nile, which is the only perennial water
  source; rapid growth in population overstraining the Nile and
  natural resources

El Salvador
  deforestation; soil erosion; water pollution;
  contamination of soils from disposal of toxic wastes

Equatorial Guinea
  tap water is not potable; deforestation

Eritrea
  deforestation; desertification; soil erosion; overgrazing;
  loss of infrastructure from civil warfare

Estonia
  air polluted with sulfur dioxide from oil-shale burning
  power plants in northeast; however, the amount of pollutants emitted
  to the air have fallen steadily, the emissions of 2000 were 80% less
  than in 1980; the amount of unpurified wastewater discharged to
  water bodies in 2000 was one-20th the level of 1980; in connection
  with the start-up of new water purification plants, the pollution
  load of wastewater decreased; Estonia has more than 1,400 natural
  and manmade lakes, the smaller of which in agricultural areas need
  to be monitored; coastal seawater is polluted in certain locations

Ethiopia
  deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification;
  water shortages in some areas from water-intensive farming and poor
  management

European Union
  NA

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  overfishing by unlicensed vessels
  is a problem; reindeer were introduced to the islands in 2001 for
  commercial reasons; this is the only commercial reindeer herd in the
  world unaffected by the 1986 Chornobyl disaster

Faroe Islands
  NA

Fiji
  deforestation; soil erosion

Finland
  air pollution from manufacturing and power plants
  contributing to acid rain; water pollution from industrial wastes,
  agricultural chemicals; habitat loss threatens wildlife populations

France
  some forest damage from acid rain; air pollution from
  industrial and vehicle emissions; water pollution from urban wastes,
  agricultural runoff

French Polynesia
  NA

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  introduction of foreign species
  on Iles Crozet has caused severe damage to the original ecosystem;
  overfishing of Patagonian Toothfish around Iles Crozet and Iles
  Kerguelen

Gabon
  deforestation; poaching

Gambia, The
  deforestation; desertification; water-borne diseases
  prevalent

Gaza Strip
  desertification; salination of fresh water; sewage
  treatment; water-borne disease; soil degradation; depletion and
  contamination of underground water resources

Georgia
  air pollution, particularly in Rust'avi; heavy pollution of
  Mtkvari River and the Black Sea; inadequate supplies of potable
  water; soil pollution from toxic chemicals

Germany
  emissions from coal-burning utilities and industries
  contribute to air pollution; acid rain, resulting from sulfur
  dioxide emissions, is damaging forests; pollution in the Baltic Sea
  from raw sewage and industrial effluents from rivers in eastern
  Germany; hazardous waste disposal; government established a
  mechanism for ending the use of nuclear power over the next 15
  years; government working to meet EU commitment to identify nature
  preservation areas in line with the EU's Flora, Fauna, and Habitat
  directive

Ghana
  recurrent drought in north severely affects agricultural
  activities; deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion; poaching and
  habitat destruction threatens wildlife populations; water pollution;
  inadequate supplies of potable water

Gibraltar
  limited natural freshwater resources: large concrete or
  natural rock water catchments collect rainwater (no longer used for
  drinking water) and adequate desalination plant

Greece
  air pollution; water pollution

Greenland
  protection of the arctic environment; preservation of the
  Inuit traditional way of life, including whaling and seal hunting

Grenada
  NA

Guam
  extirpation of native bird population by the rapid
  proliferation of the brown tree snake, an exotic, invasive species

Guatemala
  deforestation in the Peten rainforest; soil erosion; water
  pollution

Guernsey
  NA

Guinea
  deforestation; inadequate supplies of potable water;
  desertification; soil contamination and erosion; overfishing,
  overpopulation in forest region; poor mining practices have led to
  environmental damage

Guinea-Bissau
  deforestation; soil erosion; overgrazing; overfishing

Guyana
  water pollution from sewage and agricultural and industrial
  chemicals; deforestation

Haiti
  extensive deforestation (much of the remaining forested land
  is being cleared for agriculture and used as fuel); soil erosion;
  inadequate supplies of potable water

Heard Island and McDonald Islands
  NA

Holy See (Vatican City)
  NA

Honduras
  urban population expanding; deforestation results from
  logging and the clearing of land for agricultural purposes; further
  land degradation and soil erosion hastened by uncontrolled
  development and improper land use practices such as farming of
  marginal lands; mining activities polluting Lago de Yojoa (the
  country's largest source of fresh water), as well as several rivers
  and streams, with heavy metals

Hong Kong
  air and water pollution from rapid urbanization

Hungary
  the upgrading of Hungary's standards in waste management,
  energy efficiency, and air, soil, and water pollution to meet EU
  requirements will require large investments

Iceland
  water pollution from fertilizer runoff; inadequate
  wastewater treatment

India
  deforestation; soil erosion; overgrazing; desertification; air
  pollution from industrial effluents and vehicle emissions; water
  pollution from raw sewage and runoff of agricultural pesticides; tap
  water is not potable throughout the country; huge and growing
  population is overstraining natural resources

Indian Ocean
  endangered marine species include the dugong, seals,
  turtles, and whales; oil pollution in the Arabian Sea, Persian Gulf,
  and Red Sea

Indonesia
  deforestation; water pollution from industrial wastes,
  sewage; air pollution in urban areas; smoke and haze from forest
  fires

Iran
  air pollution, especially in urban areas, from vehicle
  emissions, refinery operations, and industrial effluents;
  deforestation; overgrazing; desertification; oil pollution in the
  Persian Gulf; wetland losses from drought; soil degradation
  (salination); inadequate supplies of potable water; water pollution
  from raw sewage and industrial waste; urbanization

Iraq
  government water control projects have drained most of the
  inhabited marsh areas east of An Nasiriyah by drying up or diverting
  the feeder streams and rivers; a once sizable population of Marsh
  Arabs, who inhabited these areas for thousands of years, has been
  displaced; furthermore, the destruction of the natural habitat poses
  serious threats to the area's wildlife populations; inadequate
  supplies of potable water; development of the Tigris and Euphrates
  rivers system contingent upon agreements with upstream riparian
  Turkey; air and water pollution; soil degradation (salination) and
  erosion; desertification

Ireland
  water pollution, especially of lakes, from agricultural
  runoff

Isle of Man
  waste disposal (both household and industrial);
  transboundary air pollution

Israel
  limited arable land and natural fresh water resources pose
  serious constraints; desertification; air pollution from industrial
  and vehicle emissions; groundwater pollution from industrial and
  domestic waste, chemical fertilizers, and pesticides

Italy
  air pollution from industrial emissions such as sulfur
  dioxide; coastal and inland rivers polluted from industrial and
  agricultural effluents; acid rain damaging lakes; inadequate
  industrial waste treatment and disposal facilities

Jamaica
  heavy rates of deforestation; coastal waters polluted by
  industrial waste, sewage, and oil spills; damage to coral reefs; air
  pollution in Kingston results from vehicle emissions

Jan Mayen
  NA

Japan
  air pollution from power plant emissions results in acid rain;
  acidification of lakes and reservoirs degrading water quality and
  threatening aquatic life; Japan is one of the largest consumers of
  fish and tropical timber, contributing to the depletion of these
  resources in Asia and elsewhere

Jersey
  NA

Jordan
  limited natural fresh water resources; deforestation;
  overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification

Kazakhstan
  radioactive or toxic chemical sites associated with
  former defense industries and test ranges scattered throughout the
  country pose health risks for humans and animals; industrial
  pollution is severe in some cities; because the two main rivers that
  flowed into the Aral Sea have been diverted for irrigation, it is
  drying up and leaving behind a harmful layer of chemical pesticides
  and natural salts; these substances are then picked up by the wind
  and blown into noxious dust storms; pollution in the Caspian Sea;
  soil pollution from overuse of agricultural chemicals and salination
  from poor infrastructure and wasteful irrigation practices

Kenya
  water pollution from urban and industrial wastes; degradation
  of water quality from increased use of pesticides and fertilizers;
  water hyacinth infestation in Lake Victoria; deforestation; soil
  erosion; desertification; poaching

Kiribati
  heavy pollution in lagoon of south Tarawa atoll due to
  heavy migration mixed with traditional practices such as lagoon
  latrines and open-pit dumping; ground water at risk

Korea, North
  water pollution; inadequate supplies of potable water;
  waterborne disease; deforestation; soil erosion and degradation

Korea, South
  air pollution in large cities; acid rain; water
  pollution from the discharge of sewage and industrial effluents;
  drift net fishing

Kuwait
  limited natural fresh water resources; some of world's
  largest and most sophisticated desalination facilities provide much
  of the water; air and water pollution; desertification

Kyrgyzstan
  water pollution; many people get their water directly
  from contaminated streams and wells; as a result, water-borne
  diseases are prevalent; increasing soil salinity from faulty
  irrigation practices

Laos
  unexploded ordnance; deforestation; soil erosion; most of the
  population does not have access to potable water

Latvia
  Latvia's environment has benefited from a shift to service
  industries after the country regained independence; the main
  environmental priorities are improvement of drinking water quality
  and sewage system, household, and hazardous waste management, as
  well as reduction of air pollution; in 2001, Latvia closed the EU
  accession negotiation chapter on environment committing to full
  enforcement of EU environmental directives by 2010

Lebanon
  deforestation; soil erosion; desertification; air pollution
  in Beirut from vehicular traffic and the burning of industrial
  wastes; pollution of coastal waters from raw sewage and oil spills

Lesotho
  population pressure forcing settlement in marginal areas
  results in overgrazing, severe soil erosion, and soil exhaustion;
  desertification; Highlands Water Project controls, stores, and
  redirects water to South Africa

Liberia
  tropical rain forest deforestation; soil erosion; loss of
  biodiversity; pollution of coastal waters from oil residue and raw
  sewage

Libya
  desertification; limited natural fresh water resources; the
  Great Manmade River Project, the largest water development scheme in
  the world, is being built to bring water from large aquifers under
  the Sahara to coastal cities

Liechtenstein
  NA

Lithuania
  contamination of soil and groundwater with petroleum
  products and chemicals at military bases

Luxembourg
  air and water pollution in urban areas, soil pollution of
  farmland

Macau
  NA

Macedonia
  air pollution from metallurgical plants

Madagascar
  soil erosion results from deforestation and overgrazing;
  desertification; surface water contaminated with raw sewage and
  other organic wastes; several endangered species of flora and fauna
  unique to the island

Malawi
  deforestation; land degradation; water pollution from
  agricultural runoff, sewage, industrial wastes; siltation of
  spawning grounds endangers fish populations

Malaysia
  air pollution from industrial and vehicular emissions;
  water pollution from raw sewage; deforestation; smoke/haze from
  Indonesian forest fires

Maldives
  depletion of freshwater aquifers threatens water supplies;
  global warming and sea level rise; coral reef bleaching

Mali
  deforestation; soil erosion; desertification; inadequate
  supplies of potable water; poaching

Malta
  limited natural fresh water resources; increasing reliance on
  desalination

Marshall Islands
  inadequate supplies of potable water; pollution of
  Majuro lagoon from household waste and discharges from fishing
  vessels

Mauritania
  overgrazing, deforestation, and soil erosion aggravated
  by drought are contributing to desertification; limited natural
  fresh water resources away from the Senegal, which is the only
  perennial river; locust infestation

Mauritius
  water pollution, degradation of coral reefs

Mayotte
  NA

Mexico
  scarcity of hazardous waste disposal facilities; rural to
  urban migration; natural fresh water resources scarce and polluted
  in north, inaccessible and poor quality in center and extreme
  southeast; raw sewage and industrial effluents polluting rivers in
  urban areas; deforestation; widespread erosion; desertification;
  deteriorating agricultural lands; serious air and water pollution in
  the national capital and urban centers along US-Mexico border; land
  subsidence in Valley of Mexico caused by groundwater depletion
  note: the government considers the lack of clean water and
  deforestation national security issues

Micronesia, Federated States of
  overfishing, climate change,
  pollution

Moldova
  heavy use of agricultural chemicals, including banned
  pesticides such as DDT, has contaminated soil and groundwater;
  extensive soil erosion from poor farming methods

Monaco
  NA

Mongolia
  limited natural fresh water resources in some areas; the
  policies of former Communist regimes promoted rapid urbanization and
  industrial growth that had negative effects on the environment; the
  burning of soft coal in power plants and the lack of enforcement of
  environmental laws severely polluted the air in Ulaanbaatar;
  deforestation, overgrazing, and the converting of virgin land to
  agricultural production increased soil erosion from wind and rain;
  desertification and mining activities had a deleterious effect on
  the environment

Montenegro
  pollution of coastal waters from sewage outlets,
  especially in tourist-related areas such as Kotor

Montserrat
  land erosion occurs on slopes that have been cleared for
  cultivation

Morocco
  land degradation/desertification (soil erosion resulting
  from farming of marginal areas, overgrazing, destruction of
  vegetation); water supplies contaminated by raw sewage; siltation of
  reservoirs; oil pollution of coastal waters

Mozambique
  a long civil war and recurrent drought in the hinterlands
  have resulted in increased migration of the population to urban and
  coastal areas with adverse environmental consequences;
  desertification; pollution of surface and coastal waters; elephant
  poaching for ivory is a problem

Namibia
  limited natural fresh water resources; desertification;
  wildlife poaching; land degradation has led to few conservation areas

Nauru
  limited natural fresh water resources, roof storage tanks
  collect rainwater, but mostly dependent on a single, aging
  desalination plant; intensive phosphate mining during the past 90
  years - mainly by a UK, Australia, and NZ consortium - has left the
  central 90% of Nauru a wasteland and threatens limited remaining
  land resources

Navassa Island
  NA

Nepal
  deforestation (overuse of wood for fuel and lack of
  alternatives); contaminated water (with human and animal wastes,
  agricultural runoff, and industrial effluents); wildlife
  conservation; vehicular emissions

Netherlands
  water pollution in the form of heavy metals, organic
  compounds, and nutrients such as nitrates and phosphates; air
  pollution from vehicles and refining activities; acid rain

Netherlands Antilles
  NA

New Caledonia
  erosion caused by mining exploitation and forest fires

New Zealand
  deforestation; soil erosion; native flora and fauna
  hard-hit by invasive species

Nicaragua
  deforestation; soil erosion; water pollution

Niger
  overgrazing; soil erosion; deforestation; desertification;
  wildlife populations (such as elephant, hippopotamus, giraffe, and
  lion) threatened because of poaching and habitat destruction

Nigeria
  soil degradation; rapid deforestation; urban air and water
  pollution; desertification; oil pollution - water, air, and soil;
  has suffered serious damage from oil spills; loss of arable land;
  rapid urbanization

Niue
  increasing attention to conservationist practices to counter
  loss of soil fertility from traditional slash and burn agriculture

Norfolk Island
  NA

Northern Mariana Islands
  contamination of groundwater on Saipan may
  contribute to disease; clean-up of landfill; protection of
  endangered species conflicts with development

Norway
  water pollution; acid rain damaging forests and adversely
  affecting lakes, threatening fish stocks; air pollution from vehicle
  emissions

Oman
  rising soil salinity; beach pollution from oil spills; limited
  natural fresh water resources

Pacific Ocean
  endangered marine species include the dugong, sea
  lion, sea otter, seals, turtles, and whales; oil pollution in
  Philippine Sea and South China Sea

Pakistan
  water pollution from raw sewage, industrial wastes, and
  agricultural runoff; limited natural fresh water resources; most of
  the population does not have access to potable water; deforestation;
  soil erosion; desertification

Palau
  inadequate facilities for disposal of solid waste; threats to
  the marine ecosystem from sand and coral dredging, illegal fishing
  practices, and overfishing

Panama
  water pollution from agricultural runoff threatens fishery
  resources; deforestation of tropical rain forest; land degradation
  and soil erosion threatens siltation of Panama Canal; air pollution
  in urban areas; mining threatens natural resources

Papua New Guinea
  rain forest subject to deforestation as a result of
  growing commercial demand for tropical timber; pollution from mining
  projects; severe drought

Paracel Islands
  NA

Paraguay
  deforestation; water pollution; inadequate means for waste
  disposal pose health risks for many urban residents; loss of wetlands

Peru
  deforestation (some the result of illegal logging); overgrazing
  of the slopes of the costa and sierra leading to soil erosion;
  desertification; air pollution in Lima; pollution of rivers and
  coastal waters from municipal and mining wastes

Philippines
  uncontrolled deforestation especially in watershed
  areas; soil erosion; air and water pollution in major urban centers;
  coral reef degradation; increasing pollution of coastal mangrove
  swamps that are important fish breeding grounds

Pitcairn Islands
  deforestation (only a small portion of the original
  forest remains because of burning and clearing for settlement)

Poland
  situation has improved since 1989 due to decline in heavy
  industry and increased environmental concern by post-Communist
  governments; air pollution nonetheless remains serious because of
  sulfur dioxide emissions from coal-fired power plants, and the
  resulting acid rain has caused forest damage; water pollution from
  industrial and municipal sources is also a problem, as is disposal
  of hazardous wastes; pollution levels should continue to decrease as
  industrial establishments bring their facilities up to EU code, but
  at substantial cost to business and the government

Portugal
  soil erosion; air pollution caused by industrial and
  vehicle emissions; water pollution, especially in coastal areas

Puerto Rico
  erosion; occasional drought causing water shortages

Qatar
  limited natural fresh water resources are increasing
  dependence on large-scale desalination facilities

Romania
  soil erosion and degradation; water pollution; air pollution
  in south from industrial effluents; contamination of Danube delta
  wetlands

Russia
  air pollution from heavy industry, emissions of coal-fired
  electric plants, and transportation in major cities; industrial,
  municipal, and agricultural pollution of inland waterways and
  seacoasts; deforestation; soil erosion; soil contamination from
  improper application of agricultural chemicals; scattered areas of
  sometimes intense radioactive contamination; groundwater
  contamination from toxic waste; urban solid waste management;
  abandoned stocks of obsolete pesticides

Rwanda
  deforestation results from uncontrolled cutting of trees for
  fuel; overgrazing; soil exhaustion; soil erosion; widespread poaching

Saint Barthelemy
  with no natural rivers or streams, fresh water is
  in short supply, especially in summer, and provided by
  desalinization of sea water, collection of rain water, or imported
  via water tanker

Saint Helena
  NA

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  NA

Saint Lucia
  deforestation; soil erosion, particularly in the
  northern region

Saint Martin
  fresh water supply is dependent on desalinization of
  sea water

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  recent test drilling for oil in waters
  around Saint Pierre and Miquelon may bring future development that
  would impact the environment

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  pollution of coastal waters and
  shorelines from discharges by pleasure yachts and other effluents;
  in some areas, pollution is severe enough to make swimming
  prohibitive

Samoa
  soil erosion, deforestation, invasive species, overfishing

San Marino
  NA

Sao Tome and Principe
  deforestation; soil erosion and exhaustion

Saudi Arabia
  desertification; depletion of underground water
  resources; the lack of perennial rivers or permanent water bodies
  has prompted the development of extensive seawater desalination
  facilities; coastal pollution from oil spills

Senegal
  wildlife populations threatened by poaching; deforestation;
  overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification; overfishing

Serbia
  air pollution around Belgrade and other industrial cities;
  water pollution from industrial wastes dumped into the Sava which
  flows into the Danube

Seychelles
  water supply depends on catchments to collect rainwater

Sierra Leone
  rapid population growth pressuring the environment;
  overharvesting of timber, expansion of cattle grazing, and
  slash-and-burn agriculture have resulted in deforestation and soil
  exhaustion; civil war depleted natural resources; overfishing

Singapore
  industrial pollution; limited natural fresh water
  resources; limited land availability presents waste disposal
  problems; seasonal smoke/haze resulting from forest fires in
  Indonesia

Slovakia
  air pollution from metallurgical plants presents human
  health risks; acid rain damaging forests

Slovenia
  Sava River polluted with domestic and industrial waste;
  pollution of coastal waters with heavy metals and toxic chemicals;
  forest damage near Koper from air pollution (originating at
  metallurgical and chemical plants) and resulting acid rain

Solomon Islands
  deforestation; soil erosion; many of the surrounding
  coral reefs are dead or dying

Somalia
  famine; use of contaminated water contributes to human
  health problems; deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion;
  desertification

South Africa
  lack of important arterial rivers or lakes requires
  extensive water conservation and control measures; growth in water
  usage outpacing supply; pollution of rivers from agricultural runoff
  and urban discharge; air pollution resulting in acid rain; soil
  erosion; desertification

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  NA

Southern Ocean
  increased solar ultraviolet radiation resulting from
  the Antarctic ozone hole in recent years, reducing marine primary
  productivity (phytoplankton) by as much as 15% and damaging the DNA
  of some fish; illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing in recent
  years, especially the landing of an estimated five to six times more
  Patagonian toothfish than the regulated fishery, which is likely to
  affect the sustainability of the stock; large amount of incidental
  mortality of seabirds resulting from long-line fishing for toothfish
  note: the now-protected fur seal population is making a strong
  comeback after severe overexploitation in the 18th and 19th centuries

Spain
  pollution of the Mediterranean Sea from raw sewage and
  effluents from the offshore production of oil and gas; water quality
  and quantity nationwide; air pollution; deforestation;
  desertification

Spratly Islands
  NA

Sri Lanka
  deforestation; soil erosion; wildlife populations
  threatened by poaching and urbanization; coastal degradation from
  mining activities and increased pollution; freshwater resources
  being polluted by industrial wastes and sewage runoff; waste
  disposal; air pollution in Colombo

Sudan
  inadequate supplies of potable water; wildlife populations
  threatened by excessive hunting; soil erosion; desertification;
  periodic drought

Suriname
  deforestation as timber is cut for export; pollution of
  inland waterways by small-scale mining activities

Svalbard
  NA

Swaziland
  limited supplies of potable water; wildlife populations
  being depleted because of excessive hunting; overgrazing; soil
  degradation; soil erosion

Sweden
  acid rain damage to soils and lakes; pollution of the North
  Sea and the Baltic Sea

Switzerland
  air pollution from vehicle emissions and open-air
  burning; acid rain; water pollution from increased use of
  agricultural fertilizers; loss of biodiversity

Syria
  deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification;
  water pollution from raw sewage and petroleum refining wastes;
  inadequate potable water

Taiwan
  air pollution; water pollution from industrial emissions, raw
  sewage; contamination of drinking water supplies; trade in
  endangered species; low-level radioactive waste disposal

Tajikistan
  inadequate sanitation facilities; increasing levels of
  soil salinity; industrial pollution; excessive pesticides

Tanzania
  soil degradation; deforestation; desertification;
  destruction of coral reefs threatens marine habitats; recent
  droughts affected marginal agriculture; wildlife threatened by
  illegal hunting and trade, especially for ivory

Thailand
  air pollution from vehicle emissions; water pollution from
  organic and factory wastes; deforestation; soil erosion; wildlife
  populations threatened by illegal hunting

Timor-Leste
  widespread use of slash and burn agriculture has led to
  deforestation and soil erosion

Togo
  deforestation attributable to slash-and-burn agriculture and
  the use of wood for fuel; water pollution presents health hazards
  and hinders the fishing industry; air pollution increasing in urban
  areas

Tokelau
  limited natural resources and overcrowding are contributing
  to emigration to New Zealand

Tonga
  deforestation results as more and more land is being cleared
  for agriculture and settlement; some damage to coral reefs from
  starfish and indiscriminate coral and shell collectors; overhunting
  threatens native sea turtle populations

Trinidad and Tobago
  water pollution from agricultural chemicals,
  industrial wastes, and raw sewage; oil pollution of beaches;
  deforestation; soil erosion

Tunisia
  toxic and hazardous waste disposal is ineffective and poses
  health risks; water pollution from raw sewage; limited natural fresh
  water resources; deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion;
  desertification

Turkey
  water pollution from dumping of chemicals and detergents; air
  pollution, particularly in urban areas; deforestation; concern for
  oil spills from increasing Bosporus ship traffic

Turkmenistan
  contamination of soil and groundwater with agricultural
  chemicals, pesticides; salination, water logging of soil due to poor
  irrigation methods; Caspian Sea pollution; diversion of a large
  share of the flow of the Amu Darya into irrigation contributes to
  that river's inability to replenish the Aral Sea; desertification

Turks and Caicos Islands
  limited natural fresh water resources,
  private cisterns collect rainwater

Tuvalu
  since there are no streams or rivers and groundwater is not
  potable, most water needs must be met by catchment systems with
  storage facilities (the Japanese Government has built one
  desalination plant and plans to build one other); beachhead erosion
  because of the use of sand for building materials; excessive
  clearance of forest undergrowth for use as fuel; damage to coral
  reefs from the spread of the Crown of Thorns starfish; Tuvalu is
  concerned about global increases in greenhouse gas emissions and
  their effect on rising sea levels, which threaten the country's
  underground water table; in 2000, the government appealed to
  Australia and New Zealand to take in Tuvaluans if rising sea levels
  should make evacuation necessary

Uganda
  draining of wetlands for agricultural use; deforestation;
  overgrazing; soil erosion; water hyacinth infestation in Lake
  Victoria; widespread poaching

Ukraine
  inadequate supplies of potable water; air and water
  pollution; deforestation; radiation contamination in the northeast
  from 1986 accident at Chornobyl' Nuclear Power Plant

United Arab Emirates
  lack of natural freshwater resources
  compensated by desalination plants; desertification; beach pollution
  from oil spills

United Kingdom
  continues to reduce greenhouse gas emissions (has met
  Kyoto Protocol target of a 12.5% reduction from 1990 levels and
  intends to meet the legally binding target and move toward a
  domestic goal of a 20% cut in emissions by 2010); by 2005 the
  government reduced the amount of industrial and commercial waste
  disposed of in landfill sites to 85% of 1998 levels and recycled or
  composted at least 25% of household waste, increasing to 33% by 2015

United States
  air pollution resulting in acid rain in both the US
  and Canada; the US is the largest single emitter of carbon dioxide
  from the burning of fossil fuels; water pollution from runoff of
  pesticides and fertilizers; limited natural fresh water resources in
  much of the western part of the country require careful management;
  desertification

United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
  Baker, Howland, and
  Jarvis Islands, and Johnston Atoll: no natural fresh water resources
  Kingman Reef: none
  Midway Islands and Palmyra Atoll: NA

Uruguay
  water pollution from meat packing/tannery industry;
  inadequate solid/hazardous waste disposal

Uzbekistan
  shrinkage of the Aral Sea is resulting in growing
  concentrations of chemical pesticides and natural salts; these
  substances are then blown from the increasingly exposed lake bed and
  contribute to desertification; water pollution from industrial
  wastes and the heavy use of fertilizers and pesticides is the cause
  of many human health disorders; increasing soil salination; soil
  contamination from buried nuclear processing and agricultural
  chemicals, including DDT

Vanuatu
  most of the population does not have access to a reliable
  supply of potable water; deforestation

Venezuela
  sewage pollution of Lago de Valencia; oil and urban
  pollution of Lago de Maracaibo; deforestation; soil degradation;
  urban and industrial pollution, especially along the Caribbean
  coast; threat to the rainforest ecosystem from irresponsible mining
  operations

Vietnam
  logging and slash-and-burn agricultural practices contribute
  to deforestation and soil degradation; water pollution and
  overfishing threaten marine life populations; groundwater
  contamination limits potable water supply; growing urban
  industrialization and population migration are rapidly degrading
  environment in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City

Virgin Islands
  lack of natural freshwater resources

Wake Island
  NA

Wallis and Futuna
  deforestation (only small portions of the original
  forests remain) largely as a result of the continued use of wood as
  the main fuel source; as a consequence of cutting down the forests,
  the mountainous terrain of Futuna is particularly prone to erosion;
  there are no permanent settlements on Alofi because of the lack of
  natural fresh water resources

West Bank
  adequacy of fresh water supply; sewage treatment

Western Sahara
  sparse water and lack of arable land

World
  large areas subject to overpopulation, industrial disasters,
  pollution (air, water, acid rain, toxic substances), loss of
  vegetation (overgrazing, deforestation, desertification), loss of
  wildlife, soil degradation, soil depletion, erosion; global warming
  becoming a greater concern

Yemen
  limited natural fresh water resources; inadequate supplies of
  potable water; overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification

Zambia
  air pollution and resulting acid rain in the mineral
  extraction and refining region; chemical runoff into watersheds;
  poaching seriously threatens rhinoceros, elephant, antelope, and
  large cat populations; deforestation; soil erosion; desertification;
  lack of adequate water treatment presents human health risks

Zimbabwe
  deforestation; soil erosion; land degradation; air and
  water pollution; the black rhinoceros herd - once the largest
  concentration of the species in the world - has been significantly
  reduced by poaching; poor mining practices have led to toxic waste
  and heavy metal pollution

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2033  Environment - international agreements


Afghanistan
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Marine Dumping,
  Ozone Layer Protection
  signed, but not ratified: Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
  Life Conservation

Albania
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
  of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Algeria
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
  Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Andorra
  party to: Biodiversity, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Angola
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone
  Layer Protection, Ship Pollution
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Antigua and Barbuda
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
  Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Argentina
  party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol,
  Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic
  Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: Marine Life Conservation

Armenia
  party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes,
  Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants

Australia
  party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol,
  Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic
  Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life
  Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical
  Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Austria
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
  Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
  Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
  Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
  Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
  Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Azerbaijan
  party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Bahamas, The
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Bahrain
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone
  Layer Protection, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Bangladesh
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone
  Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Barbados
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Belarus
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
  Pollution-Sulfur 85, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
  Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Belgium
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
  Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
  Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
  Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
  Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Belize
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
  of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Benin
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
  Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Bhutan
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes
  signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea

Bolivia
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
  of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
  Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification, Marine Life
  Conservation

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity,
  Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone
  Layer Protection, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Botswana
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Brazil
  party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine
  Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity,
  Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
  Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Brunei
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
  Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Bulgaria
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
  Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
  Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
  Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
  Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
  Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Burkina Faso
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone
  Layer Protection, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Burma
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Ozone
  Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
  Timber 94
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Burundi
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
  Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea

Cambodia
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection,
  Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea

Cameroon
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Tropical
  Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Canada
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
  Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
  Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol,
  Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic
  Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
  Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
  Marine Life Conservation

Cape Verde
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
  Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Central African Republic
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection, Tropical Timber 94,
  Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea

Chad
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection,
  Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping

Chile
  party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine
  Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity,
  Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
  Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

China
  party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic Treaty,
  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
  Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
  Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Colombia
  party to: Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection,
  Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea

Comoros
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
  of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate
  Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered
  Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone
  Layer Protection, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification

Congo, Republic of the
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
  Timber 94, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea

Cook Islands
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
  Sea, Ozone Layer Protection
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Costa Rica
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
  Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: Marine Life Conservation

Cote d'Ivoire
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
  Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Croatia
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94,
  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
  Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
  Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants

Cuba
  party to: Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
  Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Marine Life Conservation

Cyprus
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
  Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94,
  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Czech Republic
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen
  Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air
  Pollution-Sulfur 85, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile
  Organic Compounds, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic
  Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Denmark
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
  Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
  Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
  Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
  Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
  Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
  Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Djibouti
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Dominica
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone
  Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Dominican Republic
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone
  Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea

Ecuador
  party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic
  Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
  Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Egypt
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
  Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
  Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
  Timber 94, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

El Salvador
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea

Equatorial Guinea
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Eritrea
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
  Ozone Layer Protection
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Estonia
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
  Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
  Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic Treaty,
  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
  Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Ethiopia
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection
  signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification, Law of the Sea

European Union
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen
  Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air
  Pollution-Sulphur 94, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
  Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Tropical Timber 82, Tropical Timber 94
  signed but not ratified: Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds

Faroe Islands
  party to: Marine Dumping -associate member to the
  London Convention and Ship Pollution

Fiji
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea,
  Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Tropical Timber
  83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Finland
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
  Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
  Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
  Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
  Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
  Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
  Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

France
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
  Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
  Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
  Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life
  Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical
  Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Gabon
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea,
  Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical
  Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Gambia, The
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Georgia
  party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Germany
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
  Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
  Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
  Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
  Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83,
  Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Ghana
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
  Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
  Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Marine Life Conservation

Greece
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
  Pollution-Sulfur 94, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol,
  Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity,
  Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
  Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds

Grenada
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Ozone
  Layer Protection, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Guatemala
  party to: Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
  Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Guinea
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
  of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Guinea-Bissau
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of
  the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Guyana
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
  of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber
  83, Tropical Timber 94
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Haiti
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine
  Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection
  signed, but not ratified: Hazardous Wastes

Holy See (Vatican City)
  party to: Climate Change
  signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution, Environmental Modification

Honduras
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
  Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Hong Kong
  party to: Marine Dumping (associate member), Ship
  Pollution (associate member)

Hungary
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
  Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
  Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
  Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
  Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
  Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Iceland
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
  Kyoto Protocol, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Transboundary Air Pollution, Wetlands,
  Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification, Marine Life
  Conservation

India
  party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine
  Living Resources, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone
  Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
  Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Indonesia
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone
  Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
  Timber 94, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Iran
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
  Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification, Law of the
  Sea, Marine Life Conservation

Iraq
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Law of the Sea
  signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification

Ireland
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
  Pollution-Sulfur 94, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
  Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83,
  Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Marine Life Conservation

Israel
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
  Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: Marine Life Conservation

Italy
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
  Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
  Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
  Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
  Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83,
  Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Jamaica
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
  of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Japan
  party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine
  Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity,
  Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
  Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

Jordan
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
  of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Kazakhstan
  party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Kenya
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
  of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Kiribati
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
  Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Korea, North
  party to: Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate
  Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Environmental Modification,
  Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution
  signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea

Korea, South
  party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol,
  Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity,
  Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
  Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Kuwait
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
  Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
  Protection
  signed, but not ratified: Marine Dumping

Kyrgyzstan
  party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes,
  Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Laos
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
  Modification, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Latvia
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea,
  Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Lebanon
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone
  Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification, Marine Life
  Conservation

Lesotho
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
  of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection,
  Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Liberia
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
  Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
  Timber 94, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification, Law of the
  Sea, Marine Life Conservation

Libya
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
  Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea

Liechtenstein
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen
  Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air
  Pollution-Sulfur 85, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile
  Organic Compounds, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea

Lithuania
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides,
  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Biodiversity, Climate
  Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Endangered Species, Hazardous
  Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
  Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Luxembourg
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides,
  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur
  85, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic
  Compounds, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
  of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
  Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification

Macau
  party to: Marine Dumping (associate member), Ship Pollution
  (associate member)

Macedonia
  party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Madagascar
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone
  Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Malawi
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
  Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone
  Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea

Malaysia
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone
  Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
  Timber 94, Wetlands

Maldives
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
  Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Mali
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
  of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Malta
  party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Marshall Islands
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
  Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Mauritania
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Mauritius
  party to: Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Biodiversity,
  Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
  Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection,
  Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Mexico
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
  of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Micronesia, Federated States of
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate
  Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous
  Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Moldova
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
  Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Monaco
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air
  Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Mongolia
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone
  Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Montenegro
  party to: Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ship Pollution

Morocco
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
  of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
  Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification

Mozambique
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Namibia
  party to: Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Biodiversity,
  Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Nauru
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
  Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Nepal
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
  of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
  Timber 94, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Marine Life Conservation

Netherlands
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides,
  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur
  85, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic
  Compounds, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living
  Resources, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Kyoto Protocol, Law of
  the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
  Wetlands, Whaling

New Zealand
  party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol,
  Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity,
  Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
  Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: Antarctic Seals, Marine Life Conservation

Nicaragua
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification

Niger
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
  Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea

Nigeria
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
  of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Niue
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Law of the Sea
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Norway
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
  Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
  Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
  Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
  Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83,
  Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Oman
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
  Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Pakistan
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
  Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Marine Life Conservation

Palau
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection,
  Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Panama
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
  of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
  Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: Marine Life Conservation

Papua New Guinea
  party to: Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate
  Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered
  Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
  Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
  Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Paraguay
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Peru
  party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine
  Living Resources, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Philippines
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
  Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants

Poland
  party to: Air Pollution, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol,
  Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic
  Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
  Hazardous Wastes, Kyoto Protocol, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
  Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
  Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94

Portugal
  party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life
  Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical
  Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Environmental
  Modification

Qatar
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
  of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Romania
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic Treaty,
  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Russia
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
  Pollution-Sulfur 85, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol,
  Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic
  Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
  Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
  Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Sulfur 94

Rwanda
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
  Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Saint Lucia
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
  Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate
  Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered
  Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
  Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Samoa
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone
  Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

San Marino
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution

Sao Tome and Principe
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Law
  of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Saudi Arabia
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Senegal
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
  of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling

Serbia
  party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
  Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone
  Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Seychelles
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Sierra Leone
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of
  the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification

Singapore
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Slovakia
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
  Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
  Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
  Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
  Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Slovenia
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
  Pollution-Sulfur 94, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Solomon Islands
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Environmental Modification,
  Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone
  Layer Protection, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Somalia
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Endangered Species,
  Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection

South Africa
  party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol,
  Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic
  Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
  Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Southern Ocean
  the Southern Ocean is subject to all international
  agreements regarding the world's oceans; in addition, it is subject
  to these agreements specific to the Antarctic region: International
  Whaling Commission (prohibits commercial whaling south of 40 degrees
  south [south of 60 degrees south between 50 degrees and 130 degrees
  west]); Convention on the Conservation of Antarctic Seals (limits
  sealing); Convention on the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living
  Resources (regulates fishing)
  note: many nations (including the US) prohibit mineral resource
  exploration and exploitation south of the fluctuating Polar Front
  (Antarctic Convergence), which is in the middle of the Antarctic
  Circumpolar Current and serves as the dividing line between the cold
  polar surface waters to the south and the warmer waters to the north

Spain
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
  Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
  Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
  Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
  Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
  Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants

Sri Lanka
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone
  Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Marine Life Conservation

Sudan
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
  of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Suriname
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of
  the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
  Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Swaziland
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection
  signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea

Sweden
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
  Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 85,
  Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
  Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
  Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
  Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
  Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Switzerland
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides,
  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur
  85, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic
  Compounds, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Marine Dumping, Marine
  Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical
  Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea

Syria
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
  Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification

Taiwan
  party to: none of the selected agreements because of Taiwan's
  international status
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements because of
  Taiwan's international status

Tajikistan
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Environmental Modification, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Tanzania
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Thailand
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection,
  Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea

Timor-Leste
  party to: Climate Change, Desertification

Togo
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Ozone
  Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
  Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Tonga
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine
  Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Trinidad and Tobago
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life
  Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical
  Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Tunisia
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
  Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
  Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Marine Life Conservation

Turkey
  party to: Air Pollution, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity,
  Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
  Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification

Turkmenistan
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone
  Layer Protection
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Tuvalu
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection,
  Ship Pollution, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Uganda
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
  of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection,
  Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Environmental Modification

Ukraine
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
  Pollution-Sulfur 85, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol,
  Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity,
  Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
  Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic
  Compounds

United Arab Emirates
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection
  signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea

United Kingdom
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen
  Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air
  Pollution-Sulfur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
  Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
  Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

United States
  party to: Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen
  Oxides, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living
  Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
  Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection,
  Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands,
  Whaling
  signed, but not ratified: Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Biodiversity,
  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Hazardous Wastes

Uruguay
  party to: Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine
  Living Resources, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone
  Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation

Uzbekistan
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Vanuatu
  party to: Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Biodiversity,
  Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 94
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Venezuela
  party to: Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection,
  Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands
  signed but not ratified:: none of the selected agreements

Vietnam
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
  Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Western Sahara
  party to: none of the selected agreements
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Yemen
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
  Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
  Protection
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Zambia
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
  of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

Zimbabwe
  party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection
  signed, but not ratified: none of the selected agreements

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2034  Military expenditures (% of GDP)


Afghanistan
  1.9% of GDP (2006 est.)

Albania
  1.49% of GDP (2005 est.)

Algeria
  3.3% of GDP (2006)

Angola
  5.7% of GDP (2006)

Antigua and Barbuda
  NA

Argentina
  1.3% of GDP (2005 est.)

Armenia
  6.5% of GDP (FY01)

Australia
  2.4% of GDP (2006)

Austria
  0.9% of GDP (2005 est.)

Azerbaijan
  2.6% of GDP (2005 est.)

Bahamas, The
  0.5% of GDP (2006)

Bahrain
  4.5% of GDP (2006)

Bangladesh
  1.5% of GDP (2006)

Barbados
  0.5% of GDP (2006 est.)

Belarus
  1.4% of GDP (2005 est.)

Belgium
  1.3% of GDP (2005 est.)

Belize
  1.4% of GDP (2006)

Benin
  1.7% of GDP (2006)

Bermuda
  0.11% of GDP (2005 est.)

Bhutan
  1% of GDP (2005 est.)

Bolivia
  1.9% of GDP (2006)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  4.5% of GDP (2005 est.)

Botswana
  3.3% of GDP (2006)

Brazil
  2.6% of GDP (2006 est.)

Brunei
  4.5% of GDP (2006)

Bulgaria
  2.6% of GDP (2005 est.)

Burkina Faso
  1.2% of GDP (2006)

Burma
  2.1% of GDP (2005 est.)

Burundi
  5.9% of GDP (2006 est.)

Cambodia
  3% of GDP (2005 est.)

Cameroon
  1.3% of GDP (2006)

Canada
  1.1% of GDP (2005 est.)

Cape Verde
  0.7% of GDP (2005)

Central African Republic
  1.1% of GDP (2006 est.)

Chad
  4.2% of GDP (2006)

Chile
  2.7% of GDP (2006)

China
  4.3% of GDP (2006)

Colombia
  3.4% of GDP (2005 est.)

Comoros
  2.8% of GDP (2006)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  2.5% of GDP (2006)

Congo, Republic of the
  3.1% of GDP (2006)

Costa Rica
  0.4% of GDP (2006)

Cote d'Ivoire
  1.6% of GDP (2005 est)

Croatia
  2.39% of GDP (2005 est.)

Cuba
  3.8% of GDP (2006 est.)

Cyprus
  3.8% of GDP (2005 est.)

Czech Republic
  1.46% of GDP (2007 est.)

Denmark
  1.5% of GDP (2006; 1.28% 2007 est.)

Djibouti
  3.8% of GDP (2006)

Dominica
  NA (2006)

Dominican Republic
  0.8% of GDP (2006)

Ecuador
  2.8% of GDP (2006)

Egypt
  3.4% of GDP (2005 est.)

El Salvador
  5% of GDP (2006)

Equatorial Guinea
  0.1% of GDP (2006 est.)

Eritrea
  6.3% of GDP (2006 est.)

Estonia
  2% of GDP (2005 est.)

Ethiopia
  3% of GDP (2006)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  NA

Faroe Islands
  NA

Fiji
  2.2% of GDP (2005 est.)

Finland
  2% of GDP (2005 est.)

France
  2.6% of GDP (2005 est.)

Gabon
  3.4% of GDP (2005 est.)

Gambia, The
  0.5% of GDP (2006)

Gaza Strip
  NA

Georgia
  0.59% of GDP (2005 est.)

Germany
  1.5% of GDP (2005 est.)

Ghana
  0.8% of GDP (2006 est.)

Greece
  4.3% of GDP (2005 est.)

Grenada
  NA

Guatemala
  0.4% of GDP (2006)

Guinea
  1.7% of GDP (2006)

Guinea-Bissau
  3.1% of GDP (2005 est.)

Guyana
  1.8% of GDP (2006)

Haiti
  0.4% of GDP (2006)

Honduras
  0.6% of GDP (2006 est.)

Hong Kong
  NA

Hungary
  1.75% of GDP (2005 est.)

Iceland
  0% of GDP (2005 est.)

India
  2.5% of GDP (2006)

Indonesia
  3% of GDP (2005 est.)

Iran
  2.5% of GDP (2006)

Iraq
  8.6% of GDP (2006)

Ireland
  0.9% of GDP (2005 est.)

Israel
  7.3% of GDP (2006)

Italy
  1.8% of GDP (2005 est.)

Jamaica
  0.6% of GDP (2006 est.)

Japan
  0.8% of GDP (2006)

Jordan
  8.6% of GDP (2006)

Kazakhstan
  0.9% of GDP (Ministry of Defense expenditures) (FY02)

Kenya
  2.8% of GDP (2006)

Kiribati
  NA

Korea, North
  NA

Korea, South
  2.7% of GDP (2006)

Kuwait
  5.3% of GDP (2006)

Kyrgyzstan
  1.4% of GDP (2005 est.)

Laos
  0.5% of GDP (2006)

Latvia
  1.2% of GDP (2005 est.)

Lebanon
  3.1% of GDP (2005 est.)

Lesotho
  2.6% of GDP (2006)

Liberia
  1.3% of GDP (2006 est.)

Libya
  3.9% of GDP (2005 est.)

Lithuania
  1.2% of GDP (2006; 1.23% 2007 est.)

Luxembourg
  0.9% of GDP (2005 est.)

Macedonia
  6% of GDP (2005 est.)

Madagascar
  1% of GDP (2006)

Malawi
  1.3% of GDP (2006)

Malaysia
  2.03% of GDP (2005 est.)

Maldives
  5.5% of GDP (2005 est.)

Mali
  1.9% of GDP (2006)

Malta
  0.7% of GDP (2006 est.)

Marshall Islands
  NA

Mauritania
  5.5% of GDP (2006)

Mauritius
  0.3% of GDP (2006 est.)

Mexico
  0.5% of GDP (2006 est.)

Moldova
  0.4% of GDP (2005 est.)

Mongolia
  1.4% of GDP (2006)

Morocco
  5% of GDP (2003 est.)

Mozambique
  0.8% of GDP (2006)

Namibia
  3.7% of GDP (2006)

Nauru
  NA

Nepal
  1.6% of GDP (2006)

Netherlands
  1.6% of GDP (2005 est.)

New Caledonia
  NA

New Zealand
  1% of GDP (2005 est.)

Nicaragua
  0.6% of GDP (2006)

Niger
  1.3% of GDP (2006)

Nigeria
  1.5% of GDP (2006)

Norway
  1.9% of GDP (2005 est.)

Oman
  11.4% of GDP (2005 est.)

Pakistan
  3% of GDP (2007 est.)

Palau
  NA

Panama
  1% of GDP (2006)

Papua New Guinea
  1.4% of GDP (2005 est.)

Paraguay
  1% of GDP (2006 est.)

Peru
  1.5% of GDP (2006)

Philippines
  0.9% of GDP (2005 est.)

Poland
  1.71% of GDP (2005 est.)

Portugal
  2.3% of GDP (2005 est.)

Qatar
  10% of GDP (2005 est.)

Romania
  1.9% of GDP (2007 est.)

Russia
  3.9% of GDP (2005)

Rwanda
  2.9% of GDP (2006 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  NA

Saint Lucia
  NA

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  NA

Samoa
  NA

San Marino
  NA

Sao Tome and Principe
  0.8% of GDP (2006)

Saudi Arabia
  10% of GDP (2005 est.)

Senegal
  1.4% of GDP (2005 est.)

Seychelles
  2% of GDP (2006 est.)

Sierra Leone
  2.3% of GDP (2006)

Singapore
  4.9% of GDP (2005 est.)

Slovakia
  1.87% of GDP (2005 est.)

Slovenia
  1.7% of GDP (2005 est.)

Solomon Islands
  3% of GDP (2006)

Somalia
  0.9% of GDP (2005 est.)

South Africa
  1.7% of GDP (2006)

Spain
  1.2% of GDP (2005 est.)

Sri Lanka
  2.6% of GDP (2006)

Sudan
  3% of GDP (2005 est.)

Suriname
  0.6% of GDP (2006 est.)

Swaziland
  4.7% of GDP (2006)

Sweden
  1.5% of GDP (2005 est.)

Switzerland
  1% of GDP (2005 est.)

Syria
  5.9% of GDP (2005 est.)

Taiwan
  2.2% of GDP (2006)

Tajikistan
  3.9% of GDP (2005 est.)

Tanzania
  0.2% of GDP (2005 est.)

Thailand
  1.8% of GDP (2005 est.)

Timor-Leste
  NA

Togo
  1.6% of GDP (2005 est.)

Tonga
  0.9% of GDP (2006 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  0.3% of GDP (2006)

Tunisia
  1.4% of GDP (2006)

Turkey
  5.3% of GDP (2005 est.)

Turkmenistan
  3.4% of GDP (2005 est.)

Tuvalu
  NA

Uganda
  2.2% of GDP (2006)

Ukraine
  1.4% of GDP (2005 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  3.1% of GDP (2005 est.)

United Kingdom
  2.4% of GDP (2005 est.)

United States
  4.06% of GDP (2005 est.)

Uruguay
  1.6% of GDP (2006)

Uzbekistan
  2% of GDP (2005 est.)

Vanuatu
  NA

Venezuela
  1.2% of GDP (2005 est.)

Vietnam
  2.5% of GDP (2005 est.)

West Bank
  NA

World
  roughly 2% of GDP of gross world product (2005 est.)

Yemen
  6.6% of GDP (2006)

Zambia
  1.8% of GDP (2005 est.)

Zimbabwe
  3.8% of GDP (2006)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2038  Electricity - production (kWh)


Afghanistan
  839 million kWh (2007 est.)

Albania
  2.892 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Algeria
  33.12 billion kWh (2006 est.)

American Samoa
  180 million kWh (2006 est.)

Andorra
  NA kWh

Angola
  3.513 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Anguilla
  NA kWh

Antigua and Barbuda
  105 million kWh (2006 est.)

Argentina
  109.4 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Armenia
  5.544 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Aruba
  800 million kWh (2006 est.)

Australia
  244.2 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Austria
  59.31 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Azerbaijan
  23.8 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Bahamas, The
  2.05 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Bahrain
  9.233 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Bangladesh
  22.78 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Barbados
  1.003 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Belarus
  29.91 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Belgium
  82.94 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Belize
  213.5 million kWh (2007 est.)

Benin
  120 million kWh (2006 est.)

Bermuda
  675.6 million kWh (2007 est.)

Bhutan
  4.475 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Bolivia
  5.668 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  12.84 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Botswana
  979 million kWh (2006 est.)

Brazil
  437.3 billion kWh (2007 est.)

British Indian Ocean Territory
  NA kWh; note - electricity supplied
  by the US military

British Virgin Islands
  45 million kWh (2006 est.)

Brunei
  3.1 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Bulgaria
  43.15 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Burkina Faso
  611.6 million kWh (2007 est.)

Burma
  5.961 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Burundi
  87 million kWh (2006 est.)

Cambodia
  1.163 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Cameroon
  3.903 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Canada
  612.6 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Cape Verde
  47 million kWh (2006 est.)

Cayman Islands
  546.1 million kWh (2007 est.)

Central African Republic
  110 million kWh (2006 est.)

Chad
  95 million kWh (2006 est.)

Chile
  50.37 billion kWh (2006 est.)

China
  3.256 trillion kWh (2007)

Colombia
  51.83 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Comoros
  20 million kWh (2006 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  7.243 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  444 million kWh (2006 est.)

Cook Islands
  30 million kWh (2006 est.)

Costa Rica
  8.521 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  5.274 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Croatia
  12.41 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Cuba
  16.97 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Cyprus
  4.52 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Czech Republic
  82.88 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Denmark
  36.99 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Djibouti
  250 million kWh (2006 est.)

Dominica
  90 million kWh (2006 est.)

Dominican Republic
  13.37 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Ecuador
  14.84 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Egypt
  109.1 billion kWh (2006 est.)

El Salvador
  5.338 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  27 million kWh (2006 est.)

Eritrea
  253 million kWh (2006 est.)

Estonia
  9.158 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Ethiopia
  3.268 billion kWh (2006 est.)

European Union
  3.056 trillion kWh (2007 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  16 million kWh (2006 est.)

Faroe Islands
  295 million kWh (2006 est.)

Fiji
  928 million kWh (2007 est.)

Finland
  77.02 billion kWh (2007 est.)

France
  537.9 billion kWh (2007 est.)

French Polynesia
  475 million kWh (2006 est.)

Gabon
  1.671 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Gambia, The
  200.2 million kWh (2007 est.)

Gaza Strip
  140,000 kWh (2005)

Georgia
  7.116 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Germany
  594.7 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Ghana
  8.204 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Gibraltar
  142 million kWh (2006 est.)

Greece
  59.33 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Greenland
  305 million kWh (2006 est.)

Grenada
  167.2 million kWh (2006 est.)

Guam
  1.789 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Guatemala
  7.643 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Guernsey
  NA kWh

Guinea
  800 million kWh
  note: excludes electricity generated at interior mining sites (2006
  est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  60 million kWh (2006 est.)

Guyana
  901 million kWh (2006 est.)

Haiti
  549 million kWh (2006 est.)

Holy See (Vatican City)
  NA kWh

Honduras
  5.753 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Hong Kong
  36.61 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Hungary
  37.66 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Iceland
  11.71 billion kWh (2007 est.)

India
  665.3 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Indonesia
  125.7 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Iran
  189.9 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Iraq
  33.53 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Ireland
  25.77 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Israel
  48.7 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Italy
  292.1 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Jamaica
  7.04 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Japan
  1.082 trillion kWh (2007 est.)

Jordan
  10.87 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Kazakhstan
  74.93 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Kenya
  6.264 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Kiribati
  10 million kWh (2006 est.)

Korea, North
  21.72 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Korea, South
  412.7 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Kosovo
  3.996 billion kWh (2006)

Kuwait
  44.75 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  15.62 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Laos
  1.639 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Latvia
  4.734 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Lebanon
  8.764 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Lesotho
  200 million kWh; note - electricity supplied by South Africa
  (2006 est.)

Liberia
  320 million kWh (2006 est.)

Libya
  23.98 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Lithuania
  11.91 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Luxembourg
  3.01 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Macau
  1.454 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Macedonia
  6.051 billion kWh (2007)

Madagascar
  1.045 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Malawi
  1.13 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Malaysia
  102.9 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Maldives
  230 million kWh (2007 est.)

Mali
  505 million kWh (2006 est.)

Malta
  2.146 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Mauritania
  412.3 million kWh (2006 est.)

Mauritius
  2.321 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Mayotte
  NA kWh

Mexico
  243.3 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  192 million kWh (2002)

Moldova
  3.824 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Mongolia
  3.078 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Montenegro
  2.864 billion kWh (2005 est.)

Montserrat
  22 million kWh (2006 est.)

Morocco
  21.88 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Mozambique
  14.62 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Namibia
  1.606 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Nauru
  31 million kWh (2006 est.)

Nepal
  2.703 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Netherlands
  97.33 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  1.195 billion kWh (2006 est.)

New Caledonia
  1.602 billion kWh (2006 est.)

New Zealand
  42.41 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Nicaragua
  3.012 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Niger
  240 million kWh (2006 est.)

Nigeria
  22.11 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Niue
  4 million kWh (2006 est.)

Norfolk Island
  NA kWh

Northern Mariana Islands
  NA kWh

Norway
  135 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Oman
  13.58 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Pakistan
  93.26 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Panama
  5.805 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  2.875 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Paraguay
  70 billion kWh (2007)

Peru
  24.92 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Philippines
  56.51 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Pitcairn Islands
  NA kWh; note - electric power is provided by a
  small diesel-powered generator

Poland
  149.3 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Portugal
  44.83 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Puerto Rico
  23.84 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Qatar
  14.41 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Romania
  58.25 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Russia
  964.2 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Rwanda
  134 million kWh (2006 est.)

Saint Helena
  8 million kWh (2006 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  130 million kWh (2006 est.)

Saint Lucia
  325 million kWh (2007 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  53 million kWh (2006 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  129 million kWh (2006 est.)

Samoa
  109 million kWh (2006 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe
  18 million kWh (2006 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  179.1 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Senegal
  2.28 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Serbia
  33.87 billion kWh (2004)

Seychelles
  208 million kWh (2006 est.)

Sierra Leone
  250 million kWh (2006 est.)

Singapore
  38.68 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Slovakia
  26.17 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Slovenia
  14.13 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Solomon Islands
  70 million kWh (2007 est.)

Somalia
  280 million kWh (2006 est.)

South Africa
  264 billion kWh (2007)

Spain
  287.4 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Sri Lanka
  8.317 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Sudan
  4.037 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Suriname
  1.595 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Swaziland
  460 million kWh (2007)

Sweden
  143.8 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Switzerland
  64.56 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Syria
  34.94 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Taiwan
  216.6 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Tajikistan
  17.4 billion kWh (2007)

Tanzania
  2.682 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Thailand
  130.7 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Timor-Leste
  NA kWh

Togo
  203 million kWh (2006 est.)

Tokelau
  NA kWh

Tonga
  43 million kWh (2007 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  7.704 billion kWh (2007)

Tunisia
  12.65 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Turkey
  181.6 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Turkmenistan
  12.83 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  10 million kWh (2006 est.)

Uganda
  1.161 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Ukraine
  182.4 billion kWh (2006 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  62.76 billion kWh (2006 est.)

United Kingdom
  371 billion kWh (2007 est.)

United States
  4.167 trillion kWh (2007 est.)

Uruguay
  9.2 billion kWh (2007)

Uzbekistan
  48.79 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Vanuatu
  46 million kWh (2007 est.)

Venezuela
  110.7 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Vietnam
  61.02 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Virgin Islands
  960 million kWh (2006 est.)

Wake Island
  NA kWh

Wallis and Futuna
  NA kWh

West Bank
  NA kWh; note - most electricity imported from Israel; East
  Jerusalem Electric Company buys and distributes electricity to
  Palestinians in East Jerusalem and its concession in the West Bank;
  the Israel Electric Company directly supplies electricity to most
  Jewish residents and military facilities; some Palestinian
  municipalities, such as Nablus and Janin, generate their own
  electricity from small power plants

Western Sahara
  90 million kWh (2006 est.)

World
  18.96 trillion kWh (2007 est.)

Yemen
  5.017 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Zambia
  9.289 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Zimbabwe
  9.467 billion kWh (2006 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2042  Electricity - consumption (kWh)


Afghanistan
  1.088 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Albania
  3.607 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Algeria
  26.91 billion kWh (2006 est.)

American Samoa
  167.4 million kWh (2006 est.)

Andorra
  NA kWh

Angola
  3.084 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  97.65 million kWh (2006 est.)

Argentina
  97.72 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Armenia
  4.539 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Aruba
  744 million kWh (2006 est.)

Australia
  220 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Austria
  62.35 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Azerbaijan
  27.5 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Bahamas, The
  1.793 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Bahrain
  8.742 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Bangladesh
  21.37 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Barbados
  939.9 million kWh (2007 est.)

Belarus
  30.43 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Belgium
  85.54 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Belize
  193.3 million kWh (2006 est.)

Benin
  595 million kWh (2006 est.)

Bermuda
  619.8 million kWh (2006 est.)

Bhutan
  528.8 million kWh (2007 est.)

Bolivia
  5.092 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  8.501 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Botswana
  2.574 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Brazil
  402.2 billion kWh (2007 est.)

British Indian Ocean Territory
  NA kWh

British Virgin Islands
  41.85 million kWh (2006 est.)

Brunei
  2.924 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Bulgaria
  30.5 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Burkina Faso
  509.3 million kWh (2006 est.)

Burma
  4.289 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Burundi
  120.9 million kWh (2006 est.)

Cambodia
  1.178 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Cameroon
  3.323 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Canada
  530 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Cape Verde
  43.71 million kWh (2006 est.)

Cayman Islands
  546.1 million kWh (2007 est.)

Central African Republic
  102.3 million kWh (2006 est.)

Chad
  88.35 million kWh (2006 est.)

Chile
  45.52 billion kWh (2006 est.)

China
  2.859 trillion kWh (2006)

Colombia
  39.58 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Comoros
  18.6 million kWh (2006 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  5.158 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  564 million kWh (2006 est.)

Cook Islands
  27.9 million kWh (2006 est.)

Costa Rica
  7.779 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  3.177 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Croatia
  15.57 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Cuba
  14.02 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Cyprus
  4.151 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Czech Republic
  61.52 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Denmark
  34.68 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Djibouti
  232.5 million kWh (2006 est.)

Dominica
  83.7 million kWh (2006 est.)

Dominican Republic
  11.81 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Ecuador
  12.9 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Egypt
  96.2 billion kWh (2006 est.)

El Salvador
  4.426 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  25.11 million kWh (2006 est.)

Eritrea
  216 million kWh (2006 est.)

Estonia
  7.331 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Ethiopia
  2.941 billion kWh (2006 est.)

European Union
  2.858 trillion kWh (2007 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  14.88 million kWh (2006 est.)

Faroe Islands
  274.4 million kWh (2006 est.)

Fiji
  1.016 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Finland
  86.04 billion kWh (2006 est.)

France
  447.3 billion kWh (2006 est.)

French Polynesia
  441.8 million kWh (2006 est.)

Gabon
  1.365 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Gambia, The
  143.6 million kWh (2006 est.)

Gaza Strip
  230,000 kWh (2005)

Georgia
  6.694 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Germany
  549.1 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Ghana
  6.76 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Gibraltar
  142 million kWh (2006 est.)

Greece
  55.98 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Greenland
  283.7 million kWh (2006 est.)

Grenada
  144.2 million kWh (2006 est.)

Guam
  1.664 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Guatemala
  6.617 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Guernsey
  NA kWh

Guinea
  744 million kWh (2006 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  55.8 million kWh (2006 est.)

Guyana
  747 million kWh (2006 est.)

Haiti
  330 million kWh (2006 est.)

Holy See (Vatican City)
  NA kWh

Honduras
  4.233 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Hong Kong
  38.02 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Hungary
  37.11 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Iceland
  9.312 billion kWh (2006 est.)

India
  517.2 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Indonesia
  110.7 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Iran
  149.4 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Iraq
  35.84 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Ireland
  25.67 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Israel
  44.74 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Italy
  316.3 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Jamaica
  6.1 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Japan
  982.5 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Jersey
  630.1 million kWh (2004 est.)

Jordan
  9.852 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Kazakhstan
  61.81 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Kenya
  5.124 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Kiribati
  9.3 million kWh (2006 est.)

Korea, North
  18.18 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Korea, South
  368.6 billion kWh (2007)

Kosovo
  4.281 billion kWh (2006)

Kuwait
  39.54 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  8.997 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Laos
  1.344 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Latvia
  6.424 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Lebanon
  8.161 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Lesotho
  226 million kWh (2006 est.)

Liberia
  297.6 million kWh (2006 est.)

Libya
  20.71 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Lithuania
  10.4 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Luxembourg
  6.748 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Macau
  2.984 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Macedonia
  8.651 billion kWh (2007)

Madagascar
  907 million kWh (2006 est.)

Malawi
  1.051 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Malaysia
  95.98 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Maldives
  203.7 million kWh (2006 est.)

Mali
  469.7 million kWh (2006 est.)

Malta
  1.85 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Mauritania
  383.4 million kWh (2006 est.)

Mauritius
  2.058 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Mayotte
  139.2 million kWh (2005)

Mexico
  202 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  178.6 million kWh (2002)

Moldova
  5.806 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Monaco
  NA kWh

Mongolia
  2.638 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Montenegro
  18.6 million kWh (2005)

Montserrat
  20.46 million kWh (2006 est.)

Morocco
  19.58 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Mozambique
  9.555 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Namibia
  3.194 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Nauru
  28.83 million kWh (2006 est.)

Nepal
  2.276 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Netherlands
  109.6 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  992 million kWh (2006 est.)

New Caledonia
  1.49 billion kWh (2006 est.)

New Zealand
  38.93 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Nicaragua
  2.413 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Niger
  443.2 million kWh (2006 est.)

Nigeria
  15.85 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Niue
  3.72 million kWh (2006 est.)

Norfolk Island
  NA kWh

Northern Mariana Islands
  NA kWh

Norway
  111.5 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Oman
  10.53 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Pakistan
  68.4 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Panama
  4.768 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  2.674 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Paraguay
  6 billion kWh (2007)

Peru
  22.37 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Philippines
  47.04 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Poland
  126.2 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Portugal
  48.02 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Puerto Rico
  22.17 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Qatar
  13.19 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Romania
  48.43 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Russia
  819.6 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Rwanda
  234.6 million kWh (2006 est.)

Saint Helena
  7.44 million kWh (2006 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  120.9 million kWh (2006 est.)

Saint Lucia
  289.2 million kWh (2006 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  49.29 million kWh (2006 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  120 million kWh (2006 est.)

Samoa
  101.4 million kWh (2006 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe
  16.74 million kWh (2006 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  156.8 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Senegal
  1.657 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Serbia
  NA kWh

Seychelles
  193.4 million kWh (2006 est.)

Sierra Leone
  232.5 million kWh (2006 est.)

Singapore
  35.13 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Slovakia
  26 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Slovenia
  13.4 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Solomon Islands
  70 million kWh (2007 est.)

Somalia
  260.4 million kWh (2006 est.)

South Africa
  241.4 billion kWh (2007)

Spain
  254.1 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Sri Lanka
  6.884 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Sudan
  3.398 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Suriname
  1.457 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Swaziland
  1.2 billion kWh (2007)

Sweden
  133.6 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Switzerland
  58.77 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Syria
  34 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Taiwan
  208.7 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Tajikistan
  17.9 billion kWh (2007)

Tanzania
  2.225 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Thailand
  123.9 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Timor-Leste
  NA kWh

Togo
  607 million kWh (2006 est.)

Tokelau
  NA kWh

Tonga
  39.99 million kWh (2006 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  7.083 billion kWh (2007)

Tunisia
  10.75 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Turkey
  141.5 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Turkmenistan
  9.584 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  9.3 million kWh (2006 est.)

Uganda
  899.7 million kWh (2006 est.)

Ukraine
  148.1 billion kWh (2006 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  57.88 billion kWh (2006 est.)

United Kingdom
  348.5 billion kWh (2006 est.)

United States
  3.892 trillion kWh (2007 est.)

Uruguay
  7.03 billion kWh (2007)

Uzbekistan
  42.23 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Vanuatu
  39.99 million kWh (2006 est.)

Venezuela
  83.84 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Vietnam
  48.08 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Virgin Islands
  892.8 million kWh (2006 est.)

Wallis and Futuna
  NA kWh

West Bank
  NA kWh

Western Sahara
  83.7 million kWh (2006 est.)

World
  16.88 trillion kWh (2007 est.)

Yemen
  3.804 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Zambia
  8.625 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Zimbabwe
  11.59 billion kWh (2006 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2043  Electricity - imports (kWh)


Afghanistan
  230 million kWh (2007 est.)

Albania
  2.8 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Algeria
  382 million kWh (2006 est.)

American Samoa
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Andorra
  NA kWh; note - most electricity supplied by Spain and
  France; Andorra generates a small amount of hydropower

Angola
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Argentina
  10.27 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Armenia
  400.6 million kWh; note - imports an unknown quantity from
  Iran (2007 est.)

Aruba
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Australia
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Austria
  22.13 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Azerbaijan
  500 million kWh (2007 est.)

Bahamas, The
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Bahrain
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Bangladesh
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Barbados
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Belarus
  10.15 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Belgium
  15.78 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Belize
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Benin
  590 million kWh (2006 est.)

Bermuda
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Bhutan
  11 million kWh (2007 est.)

Bolivia
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  3.015 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Botswana
  1.959 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Brazil
  40.47 billion kWh; note - supplied by Paraguay (2007 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Brunei
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Bulgaria
  3.054 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Burkina Faso
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Burma
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Burundi
  40 million kWh; note - supplied by the Democratic Republic
  of the Congo (2007 est.)

Cambodia
  110 million kWh (2006 est.)

Cameroon
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Canada
  19.66 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Cape Verde
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Cayman Islands
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Central African Republic
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Chad
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Chile
  1.628 billion kWh (2007 est.)

China
  4.771 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Colombia
  39.4 million kWh (2007 est.)

Comoros
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  6 million kWh (2006 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  411 million kWh (2006 est.)

Cook Islands
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Costa Rica
  203.2 million kWh (2007 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Croatia
  8.374 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Cuba
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Cyprus
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Czech Republic
  10.2 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Denmark
  10.43 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Djibouti
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Dominica
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Dominican Republic
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Ecuador
  861 million kWh (2006 est.)

Egypt
  208 million kWh (2006 est.)

El Salvador
  11.08 million kWh (2007 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Eritrea
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Estonia
  400 million kWh (2007 est.)

Ethiopia
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

European Union
  NA kWh

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Faroe Islands
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Fiji
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Finland
  15.42 billion kWh (2007 est.)

France
  10.78 billion kWh (2007 est.)

French Polynesia
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Gabon
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Gambia, The
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Gaza Strip
  90,000 kWh; note - from Israeli Electric Company (2005)

Georgia
  532 million kWh (2007 est.)

Germany
  46.13 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Ghana
  629 million kWh (2006 est.)

Gibraltar
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Greece
  5.894 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Greenland
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Grenada
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Guam
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Guatemala
  8.11 million kWh (2007 est.)

Guernsey
  0 kWh (2002)

Guinea
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Guyana
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Haiti
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Holy See (Vatican City)
  NA kWh; note - electricity supplied by Italy

Honduras
  11.8 million kWh (2007 est.)

Hong Kong
  10.96 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Hungary
  14.68 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Iceland
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

India
  3.189 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Indonesia
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Iran
  2.54 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Iraq
  2.315 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Ireland
  1.412 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Israel
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Italy
  48.57 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Jamaica
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Japan
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Jersey
  NA kWh; note - electricity supplied by France

Jordan
  472 million kWh (2006 est.)

Kazakhstan
  3.665 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Kenya
  22.5 million kWh (2007 est.)

Kiribati
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Korea, North
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Korea, South
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Kuwait
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Laos
  367 million kWh (2006 est.)

Latvia
  4.671 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Lebanon
  929 million kWh (2006 est.)

Lesotho
  50 million kWh; note - electricity supplied by South Africa
  (2007 est.)

Liberia
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Libya
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Lithuania
  5.846 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Luxembourg
  6.847 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Macau
  1.683 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Macedonia
  2.6 billion kWh (2007)

Madagascar
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Malawi
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Malaysia
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Maldives
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Mali
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Malta
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Mauritania
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Mauritius
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Mexico
  484.2 million kWh (2007 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  0 kWh (2002)

Moldova
  3.741 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Monaco
  NA kWh; note - electricity supplied by France

Mongolia
  195 million kWh (2007 est.)

Montenegro
  0 kWh (2005)

Montserrat
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Morocco
  1.998 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Mozambique
  9.839 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Namibia
  1.948 billion kWh; note - electricity supplied by South
  Africa (2006 est.)

Nauru
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Nepal
  380 million kWh (2007 est.)

Netherlands
  23.14 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

New Caledonia
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

New Zealand
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Nicaragua
  63.95 million kWh (2007 est.)

Niger
  225 million kWh (2007 est.)

Nigeria
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Niue
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Northern Mariana Islands
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Norway
  5.284 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Oman
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Pakistan
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Panama
  8.74 million kWh (2007 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Paraguay
  0 kWh (2007)

Peru
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Philippines
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Poland
  7.761 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Portugal
  9.641 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Puerto Rico
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Qatar
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Romania
  1.277 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Russia
  5.67 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Rwanda
  130 million kWh (2007 est.)

Saint Helena
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Saint Lucia
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Samoa
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Senegal
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Serbia
  11.23 billion kWh (2004)

Seychelles
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Sierra Leone
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Singapore
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Slovakia
  12.73 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Slovenia
  6.14 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Solomon Islands
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Somalia
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

South Africa
  11.32 billion kWh (2007)

Spain
  8.773 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Sri Lanka
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Sudan
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Suriname
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Swaziland
  872 million kWh; note - electricity supplied by South
  Africa (2007)

Sweden
  16.61 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Switzerland
  34.82 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Syria
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Taiwan
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Tajikistan
  4.36 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Tanzania
  123 million kWh (2006 est.)

Thailand
  4.488 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Timor-Leste
  0 kWh

Togo
  505 million kWh; note - electricity supplied by Ghana (2006
  est.)

Tonga
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Tunisia
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Turkey
  863 million kWh (2007 est.)

Turkmenistan
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Uganda
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Ukraine
  2.082 billion kWh (2006 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

United Kingdom
  8.613 billion kWh (2007 est.)

United States
  51.4 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Uruguay
  788.4 million kWh (2007 est.)

Uzbekistan
  11.44 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Vanuatu
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Venezuela
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Vietnam
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Virgin Islands
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Wallis and Futuna
  0 kWh (2002)

West Bank
  NA kWh

Western Sahara
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

World
  627.9 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Yemen
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Zambia
  68 million kWh (2007 est.)

Zimbabwe
  2.867 billion kWh (2006 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2044  Electricity - exports (kWh)


Afghanistan
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Albania
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Algeria
  300 million kWh (2006 est.)

American Samoa
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Andorra
  NA kWh

Angola
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Argentina
  2.628 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Armenia
  322.6 million kWh; note - exports an unknown quantity to
  Georgia; includes exports to Nagorno-Karabakh region in Azerbaijan
  (2007 est.)

Aruba
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Australia
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Austria
  15.51 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Azerbaijan
  800 million kWh (2007 est.)

Bahamas, The
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Bahrain
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Bangladesh
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Barbados
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Belarus
  5.789 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Belgium
  9.035 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Belize
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Benin
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Bermuda
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Bhutan
  3.644 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Bolivia
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  5.123 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Botswana
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Brazil
  2.034 billion kWh (2007 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Brunei
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Bulgaria
  7.534 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Burkina Faso
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Burma
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Burundi
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Cambodia
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Cameroon
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Canada
  50.12 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Cape Verde
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Cayman Islands
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Central African Republic
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Chad
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Chile
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

China
  14.04 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Colombia
  876.7 million kWh (2007 est.)

Comoros
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  1.799 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Cook Islands
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Costa Rica
  39.55 million kWh (2007 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  1.066 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Croatia
  3.306 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Cuba
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Cyprus
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Czech Republic
  26.36 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Denmark
  11.38 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Djibouti
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Dominica
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Dominican Republic
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Ecuador
  38.53 million kWh (2006 est.)

Egypt
  557 million kWh (2006 est.)

El Salvador
  8.64 million kWh (2007 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Eritrea
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Estonia
  3.179 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Ethiopia
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

European Union
  NA kWh

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Faroe Islands
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Fiji
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Finland
  2.86 billion kWh (2007 est.)

France
  67.6 billion kWh (2007 est.)

French Polynesia
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Gabon
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Gambia, The
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Gaza Strip
  0 kWh (2005)

Georgia
  635 million kWh (2007 est.)

Germany
  62.51 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Ghana
  755 million kWh (2006 est.)

Gibraltar
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Greece
  269 million kWh (2007 est.)

Greenland
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Grenada
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Guam
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Guatemala
  131.9 million kWh (2007 est.)

Guernsey
  0 kWh (2002)

Guinea
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Guyana
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Haiti
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Honduras
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Hong Kong
  4.035 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Hungary
  10.69 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Iceland
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

India
  378 million kWh (2006 est.)

Indonesia
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Iran
  2.775 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Iraq
  0 kWh (2007)

Ireland
  82 million kWh (2007 est.)

Israel
  1.844 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Italy
  2.64 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Jamaica
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Japan
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Jordan
  13 million kWh (2006 est.)

Kazakhstan
  3.528 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Kenya
  58.3 million kWh (2007 est.)

Kiribati
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Korea, North
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Korea, South
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Kuwait
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  2.387 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Laos
  547 million kWh (2006 est.)

Latvia
  1.676 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Lebanon
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Lesotho
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Liberia
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Libya
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Lithuania
  7.217 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Luxembourg
  2.887 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Macau
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Macedonia
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Madagascar
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Malawi
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Malaysia
  2.524 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Maldives
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Mali
  0 kWh; note - recent hydropower developments may be providing
  electricity to Senegal and Mauritania (2007 est.)

Malta
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Mauritania
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Mauritius
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Mexico
  1.278 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  0 kWh (2002)

Moldova
  229 million kWh (2006 est.)

Mongolia
  10 million kWh (2007 est.)

Montenegro
  0 kWh (2005)

Montserrat
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Morocco
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Mozambique
  12.83 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Namibia
  40 million kWh (2007 est.)

Nauru
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Nepal
  165 million kWh (2007 est.)

Netherlands
  5.565 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

New Caledonia
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

New Zealand
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Nicaragua
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Niger
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Nigeria
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Niue
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Northern Mariana Islands
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Norway
  15.32 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Oman
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Pakistan
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Panama
  124.9 million kWh (2007 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Paraguay
  64 billion kWh (2007)

Peru
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Philippines
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Poland
  13.11 billion kWh (2007)

Portugal
  2.153 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Puerto Rico
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Qatar
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Romania
  3.362 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Russia
  15.81 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Rwanda
  10 million kWh (2007 est.)

Saint Helena
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Saint Lucia
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Samoa
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe
  0 kWh (2007)

Saudi Arabia
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Senegal
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Serbia
  12.05 billion kWh (2004 est.)

Seychelles
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Sierra Leone
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Singapore
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Slovakia
  11.85 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Slovenia
  5.894 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Solomon Islands
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Somalia
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

South Africa
  13.77 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Spain
  14.52 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Sri Lanka
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Sudan
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Suriname
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Swaziland
  0 kWh (2007)

Sweden
  14.74 billion kWh (2007)

Switzerland
  36.88 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Syria
  986 million kWh (2006 est.)

Taiwan
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Tajikistan
  4.259 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Tanzania
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Thailand
  731 million kWh (2007 est.)

Timor-Leste
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Togo
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Tonga
  0 kWh (2007)

Trinidad and Tobago
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Tunisia
  135 million kWh (2006 est.)

Turkey
  2.576 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Turkmenistan
  1.34 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Uganda
  180 million kWh (2006)

Ukraine
  12.52 billion kWh (2006 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

United Kingdom
  3.398 billion kWh (2007 est.)

United States
  20.14 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Uruguay
  995.4 million kWh (2007 est.)

Uzbekistan
  11.52 billion kWh (2006 est.)

Vanuatu
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Venezuela
  542 million kWh (2006 est.)

Vietnam
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Virgin Islands
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Wallis and Futuna
  0 kWh (2002)

Western Sahara
  0 kWh (2007)

World
  655.6 billion kWh (2007 est.)

Yemen
  0 kWh (2007 est.)

Zambia
  255 million kWh (2006)

Zimbabwe
  34 million kWh (2006 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2046  Population below poverty line (%)


Afghanistan
  53% (2003)

Albania
  25% (2004 est.)

Algeria
  25% (2005 est.)

American Samoa
  NA%

Andorra
  NA%

Angola
  70% (2003 est.)

Anguilla
  23% (2002)

Antigua and Barbuda
  NA%

Argentina
  23.4% (January-June 2007)

Armenia
  26.5% (2006 est.)

Aruba
  NA%

Australia
  NA%

Austria
  5.9% (2004)

Azerbaijan
  24% (2005 est.)

Bahamas, The
  9.3% (2004)

Bahrain
  NA%

Bangladesh
  45% (2004 est.)

Barbados
  NA%

Belarus
  27.1% (2003 est.)

Belgium
  15.2% (2007 est.)

Belize
  33.5% (2002 est.)

Benin
  37.4% (2007 est.)

Bermuda
  19% (2000)

Bhutan
  31.7% (2003)

Bolivia
  60% (2006 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  25% (2004 est.)

Botswana
  30.3% (2003)

Brazil
  31% (2005)

British Virgin Islands
  NA%

Brunei
  NA%

Bulgaria
  14.1% (2003 est.)

Burkina Faso
  46.4% (2004)

Burma
  32.7% (2007 est.)

Burundi
  68% (2002 est.)

Cambodia
  35% (2004)

Cameroon
  48% (2000 est.)

Canada
  10.8%; note - this figure is the Low Income Cut-Off (LICO), a
  calculation that results in higher figures than found in many
  comparable economies; Canada does not have an official poverty line
  (2005)

Cape Verde
  30% (2000)

Cayman Islands
  NA%

Central African Republic
  NA%

Chad
  80% (2001 est.)

Chile
  18.2% (2005)

China
  8%
  note: 21.5 million rural population live below the official
  "absolute poverty" line (approximately $90 per year); and an
  additional 35.5 million rural population above that but below the
  official "low income" line (approximately $125 per year) (2006 est.)

Colombia
  49.2% (2005)

Comoros
  60% (2002 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  NA%

Congo, Republic of the
  NA%

Cook Islands
  NA%

Costa Rica
  16% (2006 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  42% (2006 est.)

Croatia
  11% (2003)

Cuba
  NA%

Cyprus
  NA%

Czech Republic
  NA%

Denmark
  NA%

Djibouti
  42% (2007 est.)

Dominica
  30% (2002 est.)

Dominican Republic
  42.2% (2004)

Ecuador
  38.3% (2006)

Egypt
  20% (2005 est.)

El Salvador
  30.7% (2006 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  NA%

Eritrea
  50% (2004 est.)

Estonia
  5% (2003)

Ethiopia
  38.7% (FY05/06 est.)

European Union
  note - see individual country entries of member states

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  NA%

Faroe Islands
  NA%

Fiji
  25.5% (FY90/91)

Finland
  NA%

France
  6.2% (2004)

French Polynesia
  NA%

Gabon
  NA%

Gambia, The
  NA%

Gaza Strip
  80% (2007 est.)

Georgia
  31% (2006)

Germany
  11% (2001 est.)

Ghana
  28.5% (2007 est.)

Gibraltar
  NA%

Greece
  NA%

Greenland
  NA%

Grenada
  32% (2000)

Guam
  23% (2001 est.)

Guatemala
  56.2% (2004 est.)

Guernsey
  NA%

Guinea
  47% (2006 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  NA%

Guyana
  NA%

Haiti
  80% (2003 est.)

Holy See (Vatican City)
  NA%

Honduras
  50.7% (2004)

Hong Kong
  NA%

Hungary
  8.6% (1993 est.)

Iceland
  NA%

India
  25% (2007 est.)

Indonesia
  17.8% (2006)

Iran
  18% (2007 est.)

Iraq
  NA%

Ireland
  7% (2005 est.)

Isle of Man
  NA%

Israel
  21.6%
  note: Israel's poverty line is $7.30 per person per day (2005)

Italy
  NA%

Jamaica
  14.8% (2003 est.)

Japan
  NA%

Jersey
  NA%

Jordan
  14.2% (2002)

Kazakhstan
  13.8% (2007)

Kenya
  50% (2000 est.)

Kiribati
  NA%

Korea, North
  NA%

Korea, South
  15% (2003 est.)

Kosovo
  37% (2007 est.)

Kuwait
  NA%

Kyrgyzstan
  40% (2004 est.)

Laos
  30.7% (2005 est.)

Latvia
  NA%

Lebanon
  28% (1999 est.)

Lesotho
  49% (1999)

Liberia
  80% (2000 est.)

Libya
  7.4% (2005 est.)

Liechtenstein
  NA%

Lithuania
  4% (2003)

Luxembourg
  NA%

Macau
  NA%

Macedonia
  29.8% (2006)

Madagascar
  50% (2004 est.)

Malawi
  53% (2004)

Malaysia
  5.1% (2002 est.)

Maldives
  21% (2004)

Mali
  36.1% (2005 est.)

Malta
  NA%

Marshall Islands
  NA%

Mauritania
  40% (2004 est.)

Mauritius
  8% (2006 est.)

Mayotte
  NA%

Mexico
  13.8% using food-based definition of poverty; asset based
  poverty amounted to more than 40% (2006)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  26.7% (2000)

Moldova
  29.5% (2005)

Monaco
  NA%

Mongolia
  36.1% (2004)

Montenegro
  7% (2007 est.)

Montserrat
  NA%

Morocco
  15% (2007 est.)

Mozambique
  70% (2001 est.)

Namibia
  the UNDP's 2005 Human Development Report indicated that
  34.9% of the population live on $1 per day and 55.8% live on $2 per
  day

Nauru
  NA%

Nepal
  30.9% (2004)

Netherlands
  10.5% (2005)

Netherlands Antilles
  NA%

New Caledonia
  NA%

New Zealand
  NA%

Nicaragua
  48% (2005)

Niger
  63% (1993 est.)

Nigeria
  70% (2007 est.)

Niue
  NA%

Northern Mariana Islands
  NA%

Norway
  NA%

Oman
  NA%

Pakistan
  24% (FY05/06 est.)

Palau
  NA%

Panama
  37% (1999 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  37% (2002 est.)

Paraguay
  32% (2005 est.)

Peru
  44.5% (2006)

Philippines
  30% (2003 est.)

Poland
  17% (2003 est.)

Portugal
  18% (2006)

Puerto Rico
  NA%

Qatar
  NA%

Romania
  25% (2005 est.)

Russia
  15.8% (November 2007)

Rwanda
  60% (2001 est.)

Saint Helena
  NA%

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  NA%

Saint Lucia
  NA%

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  NA%

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  NA%

Samoa
  NA%

San Marino
  NA%

Sao Tome and Principe
  54% (2004 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  NA%

Senegal
  54% (2001 est.)

Serbia
  6.5% (2007 est.)

Seychelles
  NA%

Sierra Leone
  70.2% (2004)

Singapore
  NA%

Slovakia
  21% (2002)

Slovenia
  12.9% (2004)

Solomon Islands
  NA%

Somalia
  NA%

South Africa
  50% (2000 est.)

Spain
  19.8% (2005)

Sri Lanka
  22% (2002 est.)

Sudan
  40% (2004 est.)

Suriname
  70% (2002 est.)

Swaziland
  69% (2006)

Sweden
  NA%

Switzerland
  NA%

Syria
  11.9% (2006 est.)

Taiwan
  0.95% (2007 est.)

Tajikistan
  60% (2007 est.)

Tanzania
  36% (2002 est.)

Thailand
  10% (2004 est.)

Timor-Leste
  42% (2003 est.)

Togo
  32% (1989 est.)

Tokelau
  NA%

Tonga
  24% (FY03/04)

Trinidad and Tobago
  17% (2007 est.)

Tunisia
  7.4% (2005 est.)

Turkey
  20% (2002)

Turkmenistan
  30% (2004 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  NA%

Tuvalu
  NA%

Uganda
  35% (2001 est.)

Ukraine
  37.7% (2003)

United Arab Emirates
  19.5% (2003)

United Kingdom
  14% (2006 est.)

United States
  12% (2004 est.)

Uruguay
  27.4% of households (2006)

Uzbekistan
  33% (2004 est.)

Vanuatu
  NA%

Venezuela
  37.9% (end 2005 est.)

Vietnam
  14.8% (2007 est.)

Virgin Islands
  28.9% (2002)

Wallis and Futuna
  NA%

West Bank
  46% (2007 est.)

Western Sahara
  NA%

Yemen
  45.2% (2003)

Zambia
  86% (1993)

Zimbabwe
  68% (2004)

This page was last updated on 13 November 2008



======================================================================




@2047  Household income or consumption by percentage share (%)


Afghanistan
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Albania
  lowest 10%: 3.4%
  highest 10%: 24.4% (2004)

Algeria
  lowest 10%: 2.8%
  highest 10%: 26.8% (1995)

American Samoa
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Andorra
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Angola
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Anguilla
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Antigua and Barbuda
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Argentina
  lowest 10%: 1%
  highest 10%: 35% (January-March 2007)

Armenia
  lowest 10%: 1.6%
  highest 10%: 41.3% (2004)

Aruba
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Australia
  lowest 10%: 2%
  highest 10%: 25.4% (1994)

Austria
  lowest 10%: 3.3%
  highest 10%: 22.5% (2004)

Azerbaijan
  lowest 10%: 3.1%
  highest 10%: 29.5% (2001)

Bahamas, The
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: 27% (2000)

Bahrain
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Bangladesh
  lowest 10%: 3.7%
  highest 10%: 27.9% (2000)

Barbados
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Belarus
  lowest 10%: 3.4%
  highest 10%: 23.5% (2002)

Belgium
  lowest 10%: 3.4%
  highest 10%: 28.4% (2006)

Belize
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Benin
  lowest 10%: 3.1%
  highest 10%: 29% (2003)

Bermuda
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Bhutan
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Bolivia
  lowest 10%: 0.3%
  highest 10%: 47.2% (2002)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  lowest 10%: 3.9%
  highest 10%: 21.4% (2001)

Botswana
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Brazil
  lowest 10%: 0.9%
  highest 10%: 44.8% (2004)

British Virgin Islands
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Brunei
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Bulgaria
  lowest 10%: 2.9%
  highest 10%: 25.4% (2005)

Burkina Faso
  lowest 10%: 2.8%
  highest 10%: 32.2% (2004)

Burma
  lowest 10%: 2.8%
  highest 10%: 32.4% (1998)

Burundi
  lowest 10%: 1.7%
  highest 10%: 32.8% (1998)

Cambodia
  lowest 10%: 2.9%
  highest 10%: 34.8% (2004)

Cameroon
  lowest 10%: 2.3%
  highest 10%: 35.4% (2001)

Canada
  lowest 10%: 2.6%
  highest 10%: 24.8% (2000)

Cape Verde
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Cayman Islands
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Central African Republic
  lowest 10%: 0.7%
  highest 10%: 47.7% (1993)

Chad
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Chile
  lowest 10%: 1.4%
  highest 10%: 45% (2003)

China
  lowest 10%: 1.6%
  highest 10%: 34.9% (2004)

Colombia
  lowest 10%: 7.9%
  highest 10%: 34.3% (2004)

Comoros
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Congo, Republic of the
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Cook Islands
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Costa Rica
  lowest 10%: 1%
  highest 10%: 37.4% (2003)

Cote d'Ivoire
  lowest 10%: 2%
  highest 10%: 34% (2002)

Croatia
  lowest 10%: 3.4%
  highest 10%: 24.5% (2003 est.)

Cuba
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Cyprus
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Czech Republic
  lowest 10%: 4.3%
  highest 10%: 22.4% (1996)

Denmark
  lowest 10%: 2%
  highest 10%: 24% (2000 est.)

Djibouti
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Dominica
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Dominican Republic
  lowest 10%: 1.4%
  highest 10%: 41.1% (2004)

Ecuador
  lowest 10%: 2%
  highest 10%: 35%
  note: data for urban households only (October 2006)

Egypt
  lowest 10%: 3.7%
  highest 10%: 29.5% (2000)

El Salvador
  lowest 10%: 0.7%
  highest 10%: 38.8% (2002)

Equatorial Guinea
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Eritrea
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Estonia
  lowest 10%: 2.5%
  highest 10%: 27.6% (2003)

Ethiopia
  lowest 10%: 3.9%
  highest 10%: 25.5% (2000)

European Union
  lowest 10%: 2.8%
  highest 10%: 25.2% (2001 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Faroe Islands
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Fiji
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Finland
  lowest 10%: 4%
  highest 10%: 22.6% (2000)

France
  lowest 10%: 3%
  highest 10%: 24.8% (2004)

French Polynesia
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Gabon
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Gambia, The
  lowest 10%: 1.8%
  highest 10%: 37% (1998)

Gaza Strip
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Georgia
  lowest 10%: 2.4%
  highest 10%: 27% (2005)

Germany
  lowest 10%: 3.2%
  highest 10%: 22.1% (2000)

Ghana
  lowest 10%: 2.2%
  highest 10%: 30.1% (1999)

Gibraltar
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Greece
  lowest 10%: 2.5%
  highest 10%: 26% (2000 est.)

Greenland
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Grenada
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Guam
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Guatemala
  lowest 10%: 0.9%
  highest 10%: 43.4% (2002)

Guernsey
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Guinea
  lowest 10%: 1.9%
  highest 10%: 41% (2006)

Guinea-Bissau
  lowest 10%: 0.5%
  highest 10%: 42.4% (1991)

Guyana
  lowest 10%: 1.3%
  highest 10%: 33.8% (1999)

Haiti
  lowest 10%: 0.7%
  highest 10%: 47.7% (2001)

Honduras
  lowest 10%: 1.2%
  highest 10%: 42.2% (2003)

Hong Kong
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Hungary
  lowest 10%: 4%
  highest 10%: 22.2% (2002)

Iceland
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

India
  lowest 10%: 3.6%
  highest 10%: 31.1% (2004)

Indonesia
  lowest 10%: 3.6%
  highest 10%: 28.5% (2002)

Iran
  lowest 10%: 2%
  highest 10%: 33.7% (1998)

Iraq
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Ireland
  lowest 10%: 2.9%
  highest 10%: 27.2% (2000)

Isle of Man
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Israel
  lowest 10%: 2.4%
  highest 10%: 28.3% (2005)

Italy
  lowest 10%: 2.3%
  highest 10%: 26.8% (2000)

Jamaica
  lowest 10%: 2.1%
  highest 10%: 35.8% (2004)

Japan
  lowest 10%: 4.8%
  highest 10%: 21.7% (1993)

Jersey
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Jordan
  lowest 10%: 2.7%
  highest 10%: 30.6% (2003)

Kazakhstan
  lowest 10%: 3.3%
  highest 10%: 26.5% (2004 est.)

Kenya
  lowest 10%: 2%
  highest 10%: 37.2% (2000)

Kiribati
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Korea, North
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Korea, South
  lowest 10%: 2.9%
  highest 10%: 25% (2005 est.)

Kuwait
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Kyrgyzstan
  lowest 10%: 3.8%
  highest 10%: 24.3% (2003)

Laos
  lowest 10%: 3.4%
  highest 10%: 28.5% (2002)

Latvia
  lowest 10%: 2.5%
  highest 10%: 29.1% (2003)

Lebanon
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Lesotho
  lowest 10%: 0.9%
  highest 10%: 43.4% (2002 est.)

Liberia
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Libya
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Liechtenstein
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Lithuania
  lowest 10%: 2.7%
  highest 10%: 27.7% (2003)

Luxembourg
  lowest 10%: 3.5%
  highest 10%: 23.8% (2000)

Macau
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Macedonia
  lowest 10%: 2.4%
  highest 10%: 29.6% (2003)

Madagascar
  lowest 10%: 1.9%
  highest 10%: 36.6% (2001)

Malawi
  lowest 10%: 2.9%
  highest 10%: 31.8% (2004)

Malaysia
  lowest 10%: 1.4%
  highest 10%: 39.2% (2003 est.)

Maldives
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Mali
  lowest 10%: 2.4%
  highest 10%: 30.2% (2001)

Malta
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Marshall Islands
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Mauritania
  lowest 10%: 2.5%
  highest 10%: 29.5% (2000)

Mauritius
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Mayotte
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Mexico
  lowest 10%: 1.2%
  highest 10%: 37% (2006)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Moldova
  lowest 10%: 3.2%
  highest 10%: 26.4% (2003)

Monaco
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Mongolia
  lowest 10%: 3%
  highest 10%: 24.6% (2002)

Montserrat
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Morocco
  lowest 10%: 2.6%
  highest 10%: 30.9% (1999)

Mozambique
  lowest 10%: 2.1%
  highest 10%: 39.4% (2002)

Namibia
  lowest 10%: 0.5%
  highest 10%: 64.5% (2003)

Nauru
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Nepal
  lowest 10%: 2.6%
  highest 10%: 40.6% (2004)

Netherlands
  lowest 10%: 2.5%
  highest 10%: 22.9% (1999)

Netherlands Antilles
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

New Caledonia
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

New Zealand
  lowest 10%: %NA
  highest 10%: %NA

Nicaragua
  lowest 10%: 2.2%
  highest 10%: 33.8% (2001)

Niger
  lowest 10%: 0.8%
  highest 10%: 35.4% (1995)

Nigeria
  lowest 10%: 1.9%
  highest 10%: 33.2% (2003)

Niue
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Northern Mariana Islands
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Norway
  lowest 10%: 3.9%
  highest 10%: 23.4% (2000)

Oman
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Pakistan
  lowest 10%: 4%
  highest 10%: 26.3% (2002)

Palau
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Panama
  lowest 10%: 0.7%
  highest 10%: 43% (2003)

Papua New Guinea
  lowest 10%: 1.7%
  highest 10%: 40.5% (1996)

Paraguay
  lowest 10%: 0.7%
  highest 10%: 46.1% (2003)

Peru
  lowest 10%: 1.3%
  highest 10%: 40.9% (2003)

Philippines
  lowest 10%: 2.4%
  highest 10%: 31.2% (2006)

Poland
  lowest 10%: 3.1%
  highest 10%: 27% (2002)

Portugal
  lowest 10%: 3.1%
  highest 10%: 28.4% (1995 est.)

Puerto Rico
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Qatar
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Romania
  lowest 10%: 1.2%
  highest 10%: 20.8% (2006)

Russia
  lowest 10%: 1.9%
  highest 10%: 30.4% (September 2007)

Rwanda
  lowest 10%: 2.1%
  highest 10%: 38.2% (2000)

Saint Helena
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Saint Lucia
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Samoa
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

San Marino
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Sao Tome and Principe
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Saudi Arabia
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Senegal
  lowest 10%: 2.7%
  highest 10%: 33.4% (2001)

Seychelles
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Sierra Leone
  lowest 10%: 0.5%
  highest 10%: 43.6% (1989)

Singapore
  lowest 10%: 1.9%
  highest 10%: 32.8% (1998)

Slovakia
  lowest 10%: 3.1%
  highest 10%: 20.9% (1996)

Slovenia
  lowest 10%: 3.6%
  highest 10%: 21.4% (1998)

Solomon Islands
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Somalia
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

South Africa
  lowest 10%: 1.4%
  highest 10%: 44.7% (2000)

Spain
  lowest 10%: 2.6%
  highest 10%: 26.6% (2000)

Sri Lanka
  lowest 10%: 1.1%
  highest 10%: 39.7% (FY03/04)

Sudan
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Suriname
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Swaziland
  lowest 10%: 1.6%
  highest 10%: 40.7% (2001)

Sweden
  lowest 10%: 3.6%
  highest 10%: 22.2% (2000)

Switzerland
  lowest 10%: 2.9%
  highest 10%: 25.9% (2000)

Syria
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Taiwan
  lowest 10%: 6.7%
  highest 10%: 41.1% (2002 est.)

Tajikistan
  lowest 10%: 3.3%
  highest 10%: 25.6% (2007 est.)

Tanzania
  lowest 10%: 2.9%
  highest 10%: 26.9% (2000)

Thailand
  lowest 10%: 2.7%
  highest 10%: 33.4% (2002)

Timor-Leste
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Togo
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Tonga
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Trinidad and Tobago
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Tunisia
  lowest 10%: 2.3%
  highest 10%: 31.5% (2000)

Turkey
  lowest 10%: 2%
  highest 10%: 34.1% (2003)

Turkmenistan
  lowest 10%: 2.6%
  highest 10%: 31.7% (1998)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Tuvalu
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Uganda
  lowest 10%: 2.3%
  highest 10%: 37.7% (2002)

Ukraine
  lowest 10%: 3.4%
  highest 10%: 25.7% (2006)

United Arab Emirates
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

United Kingdom
  lowest 10%: 2.1%
  highest 10%: 28.5% (1999)

United States
  lowest 10%: 2%
  highest 10%: 30% (2007 est.)

Uruguay
  lowest 10%: 1.9%
  highest 10%: 34% (2003)

Uzbekistan
  lowest 10%: 2.8%
  highest 10%: 29.6% (2003)

Vanuatu
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Venezuela
  lowest 10%: 0.7%
  highest 10%: 35.2% (2003)

Vietnam
  lowest 10%: 2.9%
  highest 10%: 28.9% (2004)

Virgin Islands
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Wallis and Futuna
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

West Bank
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

Western Sahara
  lowest 10%: NA%
  highest 10%: NA%

World
  lowest 10%: 2.5%
  highest 10%: 29.8% (2002 est.)

Yemen
  lowest 10%: 3%
  highest 10%: 25.9% (2003)

Zambia
  lowest 10%: 1.2%
  highest 10%: 38.8% (2004)

Zimbabwe
  lowest 10%: 2%
  highest 10%: 40.4% (1995)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2048  Labor force - by occupation (%)


Afghanistan
  agriculture: 80%
  industry: 10%
  services: 10% (2004 est.)

Albania
  agriculture: 58%
  industry: 15%
  services: 27% (September 2006 est.)

Algeria
  agriculture 14%, industry 13.4%, construction and public
  works 10%, trade 14.6%, government 32%, other 16% (2003 est.)

American Samoa
  agriculture: 34%
  industry: 33%
  services: 33% (1990)

Andorra
  agriculture: 0.3%
  industry: 20.3%
  services: 79.4% (2005)

Angola
  agriculture: 85%
  industry and services: 15% (2003 est.)

Anguilla
  agriculture/fishing/forestry/mining 4%, manufacturing 3%,
  construction 18%, transportation and utilities 10%, commerce 36%,
  services 29% (2000 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  agriculture: 7%
  industry: 11%
  services: 82% (1983)

Argentina
  agriculture: 1%
  industry: 23%
  services: 76% (2007 est.)

Armenia
  agriculture: 46.2%
  industry: 15.6%
  services: 38.2% (2006 est.)

Aruba
  agriculture: NA%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA%
  note: most employment is in wholesale and retail trade and repair,
  followed by hotels and restaurants; oil refining

Australia
  agriculture: 3.6%
  industry: 21.2%
  services: 75.2% (2004 est.)

Austria
  agriculture: 3%
  industry: 27%
  services: 70% (2005 est.)

Azerbaijan
  agriculture: 41%
  industry: 7%
  services: 52% (2001)

Bahamas, The
  agriculture 5%, industry 5%, tourism 50%, other
  services 40% (2005 est.)

Bahrain
  agriculture: 1%
  industry: 79%
  services: 20% (1997 est.)

Bangladesh
  agriculture: 63%
  industry: 11%
  services: 26% (FY95/96)

Barbados
  agriculture: 10%
  industry: 15%
  services: 75% (1996 est.)

Belarus
  agriculture: 14%
  industry: 34.7%
  services: 51.3% (2003 est.)

Belgium
  agriculture: 2%
  industry: 25%
  services: 73% (2007 est.)

Belize
  agriculture: 22.5%
  industry: 15.2%
  services: 62.3% (2005 est.)

Bermuda
  agriculture and fishing 3%, laborers 17%, clerical 19%,
  professional and technical 21%, administrative and managerial 15%,
  sales 7%, services 19% (2004 est.)

Bhutan
  agriculture: 63%
  industry: 6%
  services: 31% (2004 est.)

Bolivia
  agriculture: 40%
  industry: 17%
  services: 43% (2006 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  agriculture: NA%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA%

Botswana
  agriculture: NA%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA%

Brazil
  agriculture: 20%
  industry: 14%
  services: 66% (2003 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  agriculture: 0.6%
  industry: 40%
  services: 59.4% (2005)

Brunei
  agriculture: 2.9%
  industry: 61.1%
  services: 36% (2003 est.)

Bulgaria
  agriculture: 8.5%
  industry: 33.6%
  services: 57.9% (2nd qtr. 2006 est.)

Burkina Faso
  agriculture: 90%
  industry and services: 10% (2000 est.)

Burma
  agriculture: 70%
  industry: 7%
  services: 23% (2001)

Burundi
  agriculture: 93.6%
  industry: 2.3%
  services: 4.1% (2002 est.)

Cambodia
  agriculture: 75%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA%

Cameroon
  agriculture: 70%
  industry: 13%
  services: 17% (2001 est.)

Canada
  agriculture 2%, manufacturing 13%, construction 6%, services
  76%, other 3% (2006)

Cayman Islands
  agriculture: 1.4%
  industry: 12.6%
  services: 86% (1995)

Chad
  agriculture: 80% (subsistence farming, herding, and fishing)
  industry and services: 20% (2006 est.)

Chile
  agriculture: 13.6%
  industry: 23.4%
  services: 63% (2003)

China
  agriculture: 43%
  industry: 25%
  services: 32% (2006 est.)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  note: the Cocos Islands Cooperative Society
  Ltd. employs construction workers, stevedores, and lighterage
  workers; tourism employs others

Colombia
  agriculture: 22.7%
  industry: 18.7%
  services: 58.5% (2000 est.)

Comoros
  agriculture: 80%
  industry and services: 20% (1996 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  agriculture: NA%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA%

Cook Islands
  agriculture: 29%
  industry: 15%
  services: 56% (1995)

Costa Rica
  agriculture: 14%
  industry: 22%
  services: 64% (2006 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  agriculture: 68%
  industry and services: NA (2007 est.)

Croatia
  agriculture: 2.7%
  industry: 32.8%
  services: 64.5% (2004)

Cuba
  agriculture: 20%
  industry: 19.4%
  services: 60.6% (2005)

Cyprus
  agriculture: 8.5%
  industry: 20.5%
  services: 71% (2006 est.)

Czech Republic
  agriculture: 4.1%
  industry: 37.6%
  services: 58.3% (2003)

Denmark
  agriculture: 3%
  industry: 21%
  services: 76% (2004 est.)

Djibouti
  agriculture: NA%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA%

Dominica
  agriculture: 40%
  industry: 32%
  services: 28% (2000 est.)

Dominican Republic
  agriculture: 17%
  industry: 24.3%
  services: 58.7% (1998 est.)

Ecuador
  agriculture: 8%
  industry: 24%
  services: 68% (2001)

Egypt
  agriculture: 32%
  industry: 17%
  services: 51% (2001 est.)

El Salvador
  agriculture: 19%
  industry: 23%
  services: 58% (2006 est.)

Eritrea
  agriculture: 80%
  industry and services: 20% (2004 est.)

Estonia
  agriculture: 11%
  industry: 20%
  services: 69% (1999 est.)

Ethiopia
  agriculture: 80%
  industry: 8%
  services: 12% (1985)

European Union
  agriculture: 4.4%
  industry: 27.1%
  services: 67.1%
  note: the remainder is in miscellaneous public and private sector
  industries and services (2002 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  agriculture: 95% (mostly
  sheepherding and fishing)
  industry and services: 5% (1996)

Faroe Islands
  agriculture: 33%
  industry: 33%
  services: 34% (October 2000)

Fiji
  agriculture: 70%
  industry and services: 30% (2001 est.)

Finland
  agriculture and forestry 4.4%, industry 18.6%, construction
  6%, commerce 16.3%, finance, insurance, and business services 13.9%,
  transport and communications 7.6%, public services 33.2% (2004)

France
  agriculture: 4.1%
  industry: 24.4%
  services: 71.5% (1999)

French Polynesia
  agriculture: 13%
  industry: 19%
  services: 68% (2002)

Gabon
  agriculture: 60%
  industry: 15%
  services: 25%

Gambia, The
  agriculture: 75%
  industry: 19%
  services: 6% (1996)

Gaza Strip
  agriculture: 12%
  industry: 18%
  services: 70% (2005)

Georgia
  agriculture: 55.6%
  industry: 8.9%
  services: 35.5% (2006 est.)

Germany
  agriculture: 2.8%
  industry: 33.4%
  services: 63.8% (1999)

Ghana
  agriculture: 56%
  industry: 15%
  services: 29% (2005 est.)

Gibraltar
  agriculture: negligible
  industry: 40%
  services: 60% (2001)

Greece
  agriculture: 12%
  industry: 20%
  services: 68% (2004 est.)

Grenada
  agriculture: 24%
  industry: 14%
  services: 62% (1999 est.)

Guam
  agriculture: 26%
  industry: 10%
  services: 64% (2004 est.)

Guatemala
  agriculture: 50%
  industry: 15%
  services: 35% (1999 est.)

Guinea
  agriculture: 76%
  industry and services: 24% (2006 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  agriculture: 82%
  industry and services: 18% (2000 est.)

Guyana
  agriculture: NA%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA%

Haiti
  agriculture: 66%
  industry: 9%
  services: 25% (1995)

Holy See (Vatican City)
  note: essentially services with a small
  amount of industry; nearly all dignitaries, priests, nuns, guards,
  and the approximately 3,000 lay workers live outside the Vatican

Honduras
  agriculture: 34%
  industry: 23%
  services: 43% (2003 est.)

Hong Kong
  manufacturing 6.5%, construction 2.1%, wholesale and
  retail trade, restaurants, and hotels 43.3%, financing, insurance,
  and real estate 20.7%, transport and communications 7.8%, community
  and social services 19.5%
  note: above data exclude public sector (2007 est.)

Hungary
  agriculture: 5.5%
  industry: 33.3%
  services: 61.2% (2003)

Iceland
  agriculture: 5.1%
  industry: 23%
  services: 71.8% (2005)

India
  agriculture: 60%
  industry: 12%
  services: 28% (2003)

Indonesia
  agriculture: 43.3%
  industry: 18%
  services: 38.7% (2004 est.)

Iran
  agriculture: 25%
  industry: 31%
  services: 45% (June 2007)

Iraq
  agriculture: NA%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA%

Ireland
  agriculture: 6%
  industry: 27%
  services: 67% (2006 est.)

Isle of Man
  agriculture, forestry, and fishing 3%, manufacturing
  11%, construction 10%, transport and communication 8%, wholesale and
  retail distribution 11%, professional and scientific services 18%,
  public administration 6%, banking and finance 18%, tourism 2%,
  entertainment and catering 3%, miscellaneous services 10% (2001)

Israel
  agriculture 18.5%, industry 23.7%, services 50%, other 7.8%
  (2002)

Italy
  agriculture: 5%
  industry: 32%
  services: 63% (2001)

Jamaica
  agriculture: 17%
  industry: 19%
  services: 64% (2006)

Japan
  agriculture: 4.6%
  industry: 27.8%
  services: 67.7% (2004)

Jordan
  agriculture: 5%
  industry: 12.5%
  services: 82.5% (2001 est.)

Kazakhstan
  agriculture: 32.2%
  industry: 18%
  services: 49.8% (2005)

Kenya
  agriculture: 75%
  industry and services: 25% (2003 est.)

Kiribati
  agriculture: 2.7%
  industry: 32%
  services: 65.3% (2000)

Korea, North
  agriculture: 37%
  industry and services: 63% (2004 est.)

Korea, South
  agriculture: 7.5%
  industry: 17.3%
  services: 75.2% (2007)

Kosovo
  agriculture: 21.4%
  industry: NA
  services: NA (2006 est,)

Kuwait
  agriculture: NA%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA%

Kyrgyzstan
  agriculture: 55%
  industry: 15%
  services: 30% (2000 est.)

Laos
  agriculture: 80%
  industry and services: 20% (2005 est.)

Latvia
  agriculture: 13%
  industry: 19%
  services: 68% (2005 est.)

Lebanon
  agriculture: NA%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA%

Lesotho
  agriculture: 86% of resident population engaged in
  subsistence agriculture; roughly 35% of the active male wage earners
  work in South Africa
  industry and services: 14% (2002 est.)

Liberia
  agriculture: 70%
  industry: 8%
  services: 22% (2000 est.)

Libya
  agriculture: 17%
  industry: 23%
  services: 59% (2004 est.)

Liechtenstein
  agriculture: 2%
  industry: 47%
  services: 51% (31 December 2001)

Lithuania
  agriculture: 15.8%
  industry: 28.2%
  services: 56% (2004)

Luxembourg
  agriculture: 1%
  industry: 13%
  services: 86% (2004 est.)

Macau
  manufacturing 11.1%, construction 11.7%, transport and
  communications 6.3%, wholesale and retail trade 13.7%, restaurants
  and hotels 11.3%, gambling 19.8%, public sector 7.7%, financial
  services 2.6%, other services and agriculture 15.7% (2006)

Macedonia
  agriculture: 19.6%
  industry: 30.4%
  services: 50% (September 2007)

Malawi
  agriculture: 90%
  industry and services: 10% (2003 est.)

Malaysia
  agriculture: 13%
  industry: 36%
  services: 51% (2005 est.)

Maldives
  agriculture: 22%
  industry: 18%
  services: 60% (1995)

Mali
  agriculture: 80%
  industry and services: 20% (2005 est.)

Malta
  agriculture: 3%
  industry: 22%
  services: 75% (2005 est.)

Marshall Islands
  agriculture: 21.4%
  industry: 20.9%
  services: 57.7% (2000)

Mauritania
  agriculture: 50%
  industry: 10%
  services: 40% (2001 est.)

Mauritius
  agriculture and fishing 9%, construction and industry 30%,
  transportation and communication 7%, trade, restaurants, hotels 22%,
  finance 6%, other services 25% (2007)

Mexico
  agriculture: 18%
  industry: 24%
  services: 58% (2003)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  agriculture: 0.9%
  industry: 34.4%
  services: 64.7%
  note: two-thirds are government employees (FY05 est.)

Moldova
  agriculture: 40.7%
  industry: 12.1%
  services: 47.2% (2005)

Mongolia
  agriculture: 39.9%
  industry: 11.7%
  services: 49.4% (2006)

Montenegro
  agriculture: 2%
  industry: 30%
  services: 68% (2004 est.)

Morocco
  agriculture: 40%
  industry: 15%
  services: 45% (2003 est.)

Mozambique
  agriculture: 81%
  industry: 6%
  services: 13% (1997 est.)

Namibia
  agriculture: 47%
  industry: 20%
  services: 33% (1999 est.)

Nauru
  note: employed in mining phosphates, public administration,
  education, and transportation (1992)

Nepal
  agriculture: 76%
  industry: 6%
  services: 18% (2004 est.)

Netherlands
  agriculture: 3%
  industry: 21%
  services: 76% (2005 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  agriculture: 1%
  industry: 20%
  services: 79% (2005 est.)

New Caledonia
  agriculture: 20%
  industry: 20%
  services: 60% (2002)

New Zealand
  agriculture: 7%
  industry: 19%
  services: 74% (2006 est.)

Nicaragua
  agriculture: 29%
  industry: 19%
  services: 52% (2006 est.)

Niger
  agriculture: 90%
  industry: 6%
  services: 4% (1995)

Nigeria
  agriculture: 70%
  industry: 10%
  services: 20% (1999 est.)

Niue
  note: most work on family plantations; paid work exists only in
  government service, small industry, and the Niue Development Board

Norfolk Island
  agriculture: 10%
  industry and services: 90%

Northern Mariana Islands
  agriculture: NA%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA%

Norway
  agriculture: 4%
  industry: 22%
  services: 74% (1995)

Oman
  agriculture: NA%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA%

Pakistan
  agriculture: 42%
  industry: 20%
  services: 38% (2004 est.)

Palau
  agriculture: 20%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA%

Panama
  agriculture: 15%
  industry: 18%
  services: 67% (2006)

Papua New Guinea
  agriculture: 85%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA% (2005 est.)

Paraguay
  agriculture: 31%
  industry: 17%
  services: 52% (2007)

Peru
  agriculture: 9%
  industry: 18%
  services: 73% (2001)

Philippines
  agriculture: 35%
  industry: 15%
  services: 50% (2007 est.)

Pitcairn Islands
  note: no business community in the usual sense;
  some public works; subsistence farming and fishing

Poland
  agriculture: 16.1%
  industry: 29%
  services: 54.9% (2002)

Portugal
  agriculture: 10%
  industry: 30%
  services: 60% (2007 est.)

Puerto Rico
  agriculture: 3%
  industry: 20%
  services: 77% (2000 est.)

Romania
  agriculture: 29.7%
  industry: 23.2%
  services: 47.1% (2006)

Russia
  agriculture: 10.8%
  industry: 28.8%
  services: 60.5% (November 2007 est.)

Rwanda
  agriculture: 90%
  industry and services: 10% (2000)

Saint Helena
  agriculture: 6%
  industry: 48%
  services: 46% (1987 est.)

Saint Lucia
  agriculture: 21.7%
  industry: 24.7%
  services: 53.6% (2002 est.)

Saint Martin
  85% directly or indirectly employed in tourist industry

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  agriculture: 18%
  industry: 41%
  services: 41% (1996 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  agriculture: 26%
  industry: 17%
  services: 57% (1980 est.)

Samoa
  agriculture: NA%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA%

San Marino
  agriculture: 0.2%
  industry: 40.1%
  services: 59.7% (2006 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe
  note: population mainly engaged in subsistence
  agriculture and fishing; shortages of skilled workers

Saudi Arabia
  agriculture: 12%
  industry: 25%
  services: 63% (1999 est.)

Senegal
  agriculture: 77.5%
  industry and services: 22.5% (2007 est.)

Serbia
  agriculture: 30%
  industry: 46%
  services: 24% (2002)

Seychelles
  agriculture: 3%
  industry: 23%
  services: 74% (2006)

Sierra Leone
  agriculture: NA%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA%

Singapore
  manufacturing 21%, construction 5%, transportation and
  communication 7%, financial, business, and other services 42%, other
  25% (2006)

Slovakia
  agriculture 5.8%, industry 29.3%, construction 9%, services
  55.9% (2003)

Slovenia
  agriculture: 2.5%
  industry: 36%
  services: 61.5% (2007)

Solomon Islands
  agriculture: 75%
  industry: 5%
  services: 20% (2000 est.)

Somalia
  agriculture: 71%
  industry and services: 29% (1975)

South Africa
  agriculture: 9%
  industry: 26%
  services: 65% (2007 est.)

Spain
  agriculture: 5.3%
  industry: 30.1%
  services: 64.6% (2004 est.)

Sri Lanka
  agriculture: 34.3%
  industry: 25.3%
  services: 40.4% (30 June 2006 est.)

Sudan
  agriculture: 80%
  industry: 7%
  services: 13% (1998 est.)

Suriname
  agriculture: 8%
  industry: 14%
  services: 78% (2004)

Swaziland
  agriculture: NA%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA%

Sweden
  agriculture: 2%
  industry: 24%
  services: 74% (2000 est.)

Switzerland
  agriculture: 4.6%
  industry: 26.3%
  services: 69.1% (1998)

Syria
  agriculture: 19.2%
  industry: 14.5%
  services: 66.3% (2006 est.)

Taiwan
  agriculture: 5.3%
  industry: 36.8%
  services: 57.9% (2007 est.)

Tajikistan
  agriculture: 67.2%
  industry: 7.5%
  services: 25.3% (2000 est.)

Tanzania
  agriculture: 80%
  industry and services: 20% (2002 est.)

Thailand
  agriculture: 49%
  industry: 14%
  services: 37% (2000 est.)

Timor-Leste
  agriculture: NA%
  industry: NA%
  services: NA%

Togo
  agriculture: 65%
  industry: 5%
  services: 30% (1998 est.)

Tonga
  agriculture: 65%
  industry and services: 35% (1997 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  agriculture 4%, manufacturing, mining, and
  quarrying 12.9%, construction and utilities 17.5%, services 65.6%
  (2006 est.)

Tunisia
  agriculture: 55%
  industry: 23%
  services: 22% (1995 est.)

Turkey
  agriculture: 35.9%
  industry: 22.8%
  services: 41.2% (3rd quarter, 2004)

Turkmenistan
  agriculture: 48.2%
  industry: 14%
  services: 37.8% (2004 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  note: about 33% in government and 20% in
  agriculture and fishing; significant numbers in tourism, financial,
  and other services

Tuvalu
  note: people make a living mainly through exploitation of the
  sea, reefs, and atolls and from wages sent home by those abroad
  (mostly workers in the phosphate industry and sailors)

Uganda
  agriculture: 82%
  industry: 5%
  services: 13% (1999 est.)

Ukraine
  agriculture: 25%
  industry: 20%
  services: 55% (1996)

United Arab Emirates
  agriculture: 7%
  industry: 15%
  services: 78% (2000 est.)

United Kingdom
  agriculture: 1.4%
  industry: 18.2%
  services: 80.4% (2006 est.)

United States
  farming, forestry, and fishing 0.6%, manufacturing,
  extraction, transportation, and crafts 22.6%, managerial,
  professional, and technical 35.5%, sales and office 24.8%, other
  services 16.5%
  note: figures exclude the unemployed (2007)

Uruguay
  agriculture: 9%
  industry: 15%
  services: 76% (2007 est.)

Uzbekistan
  agriculture: 44%
  industry: 20%
  services: 36% (1995)

Vanuatu
  agriculture: 65%
  industry: 5%
  services: 30% (2000 est.)

Venezuela
  agriculture: 13%
  industry: 23%
  services: 64% (1997 est.)

Vietnam
  agriculture: 55.6%
  industry: 18.9%
  services: 25.5% (July 2005)

Virgin Islands
  agriculture: 1%
  industry: 19%
  services: 80% (2003 est.)

Wallis and Futuna
  agriculture: 80%
  industry: 4%
  services: 16% (2001 est.)

West Bank
  agriculture: 18%
  industry: 15%
  services: 67% (2006)

Western Sahara
  agriculture: 50%
  industry and services: 50% (2005 est.)

World
  agriculture: 40.2%
  industry: 20.5%
  services: 39.4% (2007 est.)

Yemen
  note: most people are employed in agriculture and herding;
  services, construction, industry, and commerce account for less than
  one-fourth of the labor force

Zambia
  agriculture: 85%
  industry: 6%
  services: 9% (2004)

Zimbabwe
  agriculture: 66%
  industry: 10%
  services: 24% (1996)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2049  Exports - commodities (%)


Afghanistan
  opium, fruits and nuts, handwoven carpets, wool, cotton,
  hides and pelts, precious and semi-precious gems

Albania
  textiles and footwear; asphalt, metals and metallic ores,
  crude oil; vegetables, fruits, tobacco

Algeria
  petroleum, natural gas, and petroleum products 97%

American Samoa
  canned tuna 93% (2004 est.)

Andorra
  tobacco products, furniture

Angola
  crude oil, diamonds, refined petroleum products, gas, coffee,
  sisal, fish and fish products, timber, cotton

Anguilla
  lobster, fish, livestock, salt, concrete blocks, rum

Antigua and Barbuda
  petroleum products, bedding, handicrafts,
  electronic components, transport equipment, food and live animals

Argentina
  soybeans and derivatives, petroleum and gas, vehicles,
  corn, wheat

Armenia
  pig iron, unwrought copper, nonferrous metals, diamonds,
  mineral products, foodstuffs, energy

Aruba
  live animals and animal products, art and collectibles,
  machinery and electrical equipment, transport equipment

Australia
  coal, iron ore, gold, meat, wool, alumina, wheat,
  machinery and transport equipment

Austria
  machinery and equipment, motor vehicles and parts, paper and
  paperboard, metal goods, chemicals, iron and steel, textiles,
  foodstuffs

Azerbaijan
  oil and gas 90%, machinery, cotton, foodstuffs

Bahamas, The
  mineral products and salt, animal products, rum,
  chemicals, fruit and vegetables

Bahrain
  petroleum and petroleum products, aluminum, textiles

Bangladesh
  garments, jute and jute goods, leather, frozen fish and
  seafood

Barbados
  manufactures, sugar and molasses, rum, other foods and
  beverages, chemicals, electrical components

Belarus
  machinery and equipment, mineral products, chemicals,
  metals, textiles, foodstuffs

Belgium
  machinery and equipment, chemicals, diamonds, metals and
  metal products, foodstuffs

Belize
  sugar, bananas, citrus, clothing, fish products, molasses,
  wood

Benin
  cotton, cashews, shea butter, textiles, palm products, seafood

Bermuda
  reexports of pharmaceuticals

Bhutan
  electricity (to India), cardamom, gypsum, timber,
  handicrafts, cement, fruit, precious stones, spices

Bolivia
  natural gas, soybeans and soy products, crude petroleum,
  zinc ore, tin

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  metals, clothing, wood products

Botswana
  diamonds, copper, nickel, soda ash, meat, textiles

Brazil
  transport equipment, iron ore, soybeans, footwear, coffee,
  autos

British Virgin Islands
  rum, fresh fish, fruits, animals; gravel, sand

Brunei
  crude oil, natural gas, refined products, clothing

Bulgaria
  clothing, footwear, iron and steel, machinery and
  equipment, fuels

Burkina Faso
  cotton, livestock, gold

Burma
  natural gas, wood products, pulses, beans, fish, rice,
  clothing, jade and gems

Burundi
  coffee, tea, sugar, cotton, hides

Cambodia
  clothing, timber, rubber, rice, fish, tobacco, footwear

Cameroon
  crude oil and petroleum products, lumber, cocoa beans,
  aluminum, coffee, cotton

Canada
  motor vehicles and parts, industrial machinery, aircraft,
  telecommunications equipment; chemicals, plastics, fertilizers; wood
  pulp, timber, crude petroleum, natural gas, electricity, aluminum

Cape Verde
  fuel, shoes, garments, fish, hides

Cayman Islands
  turtle products, manufactured consumer goods

Central African Republic
  diamonds, timber, cotton, coffee, tobacco

Chad
  oil, cattle, cotton, gum arabic

Chile
  copper, fruit, fish products, paper and pulp, chemicals, wine

China
  machinery, electrical products, data processing equipment,
  apparel, textile, steel, mobile phones

Christmas Island
  phosphate

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  copra

Colombia
  petroleum, coffee, coal, nickel, emeralds, apparel,
  bananas, cut flowers

Comoros
  vanilla, ylang-ylang (perfume essence), cloves, copra

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  diamonds, copper, crude oil,
  coffee, cobalt

Congo, Republic of the
  petroleum, lumber, plywood, sugar, cocoa,
  coffee, diamonds

Cook Islands
  copra, papayas, fresh and canned citrus fruit, coffee;
  fish; pearls and pearl shells; clothing

Costa Rica
  bananas, pineapples, coffee, melons, ornamental plants,
  sugar; seafood; electronic components, medical equipment

Cote d'Ivoire
  cocoa, coffee, timber, petroleum, cotton, bananas,
  pineapples, palm oil, fish

Croatia
  transport equipment, textiles, chemicals, foodstuffs, fuels

Cuba
  sugar, nickel, tobacco, fish, medical products, citrus, coffee

Cyprus
  citrus, potatoes, pharmaceuticals, cement, and clothing

Czech Republic
  machinery and transport equipment 52%, raw materials
  and fuel 9%, chemicals 5% (2003)

Denmark
  machinery and instruments, meat and meat products, dairy
  products, fish, pharmaceuticals, furniture, windmills

Djibouti
  reexports, hides and skins, coffee (in transit)

Dominica
  bananas, soap, bay oil, vegetables, grapefruit, oranges

Dominican Republic
  ferronickel, sugar, gold, silver, coffee, cocoa,
  tobacco, meats, consumer goods

Ecuador
  petroleum, bananas, cut flowers, shrimp, cacao, coffee,
  hemp, wood, fish

Egypt
  crude oil and petroleum products, cotton, textiles, metal
  products, chemicals

El Salvador
  offshore assembly exports, coffee, sugar, shrimp,
  textiles, chemicals, electricity

Equatorial Guinea
  petroleum, methanol, timber, cocoa

Eritrea
  livestock, sorghum, textiles, food, small manufactures

Estonia
  machinery and equipment 33%, wood and paper 15%, textiles
  14%, food products 8%, furniture 7%, metals, chemical products (2001)

Ethiopia
  coffee, qat, gold, leather products, live animals, oilseeds

European Union
  machinery, motor vehicles, aircraft, plastics,
  pharmaceuticals and other chemicals, fuels, iron and steel,
  nonferrous metals, wood pulp and paper products, textiles, meat,
  dairy products, fish, alcoholic beverages.

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  wool, hides, meat, fish, squid

Faroe Islands
  fish and fish products 94%, stamps, ships (1999)

Fiji
  sugar, garments, gold, timber, fish, molasses, coconut oil

Finland
  machinery and equipment, chemicals, metals; timber, paper,
  pulp

France
  machinery and transportation equipment, aircraft, plastics,
  chemicals, pharmaceutical products, iron and steel, beverages

French Polynesia
  cultured pearls, coconut products, mother-of-pearl,
  vanilla, shark meat

Gabon
  crude oil 77%, timber, manganese, uranium (2001)

Gambia, The
  peanut products, fish, cotton lint, palm kernels,
  re-exports

Gaza Strip
  citrus, flowers, textiles

Georgia
  scrap metal, wine, mineral water, ores, vehicles, fruits and
  nuts

Germany
  machinery, vehicles, chemicals, metals and manufactures,
  foodstuffs, textiles

Ghana
  gold, cocoa, timber, tuna, bauxite, aluminum, manganese ore,
  diamonds, horticulture

Gibraltar
  (principally reexports) petroleum 51%, manufactured goods
  41%, other 8%

Greece
  food and beverages, manufactured goods, petroleum products,
  chemicals, textiles

Greenland
  fish and fish products 94% (prawns 63%) (2001 est.)

Grenada
  bananas, cocoa, nutmeg, fruit and vegetables, clothing, mace

Guam
  transshipments of refined petroleum products, construction
  materials, fish, food and beverage products

Guatemala
  coffee, sugar, petroleum, apparel, bananas, fruits and
  vegetables, cardamom

Guernsey
  tomatoes, flowers and ferns, sweet peppers, eggplant, other
  vegetables

Guinea
  bauxite, alumina, gold, diamonds, coffee, fish, agricultural
  products

Guinea-Bissau
  cashew nuts, shrimp, peanuts, palm kernels, sawn lumber

Guyana
  sugar, gold, bauxite, alumina, rice, shrimp, molasses, rum,
  timber

Haiti
  apparel, manufactures, oils, cocoa, mangoes, coffee

Honduras
  coffee, shrimp, bananas, gold, palm oil, fruit, lobster,
  lumber

Hong Kong
  electrical machinery and appliances, textiles, apparel,
  footwear, watches and clocks, toys, plastics, precious stones,
  printed material

Hungary
  machinery and equipment 61.1%, other manufactures 28.7%,
  food products 6.5%, raw materials 2%, fuels and electricity 1.6%
  (2003)

Iceland
  fish and fish products 70%, aluminum, animal products,
  ferrosilicon, diatomite

India
  petroleum products, textile goods, gems and jewelry,
  engineering goods, chemicals, leather manufactures

Indonesia
  oil and gas, electrical appliances, plywood, textiles,
  rubber

Iran
  petroleum 80%, chemical and petrochemical products, fruits and
  nuts, carpets

Iraq
  crude oil 84%, crude materials excluding fuels 8%, food and
  live animals 5%

Ireland
  machinery and equipment, computers, chemicals,
  pharmaceuticals; live animals, animal products

Isle of Man
  tweeds, herring, processed shellfish, beef, lamb

Israel
  machinery and equipment, software, cut diamonds, agricultural
  products, chemicals, textiles and apparel

Italy
  engineering products, textiles and clothing, production
  machinery, motor vehicles, transport equipment, chemicals; food,
  beverages and tobacco; minerals, and nonferrous metals

Jamaica
  alumina, bauxite, sugar, bananas, rum, coffee, yams,
  beverages, chemicals, wearing apparel, mineral fuels

Japan
  transport equipment, motor vehicles, semiconductors,
  electrical machinery, chemicals

Jersey
  light industrial and electrical goods, dairy cattle,
  foodstuffs, textiles

Jordan
  clothing, pharmaceuticals, potash, phosphates, fertilizers,
  vegetables, manufactures;

Kazakhstan
  oil and oil products 59%, ferrous metals 19%, chemicals
  5%, machinery 3%, grain, wool, meat, coal (2001)

Kenya
  tea, horticultural products, coffee, petroleum products, fish,
  cement

Kiribati
  copra 62%, coconuts, seaweed, fish

Korea, North
  minerals, metallurgical products, manufactures
  (including armaments), textiles, agricultural and fishery products

Korea, South
  semiconductors, wireless telecommunications equipment,
  motor vehicles, computers, steel, ships, petrochemicals

Kosovo
  mining and processed metal products, scrap metals, leather
  products, machinery, appliances

Kuwait
  oil and refined products, fertilizers

Kyrgyzstan
  cotton, wool, meat, tobacco; gold, mercury, uranium,
  natural gas, hydropower; machinery; shoes

Laos
  wood products, coffee, electricity, tin, copper, gold

Latvia
  wood and wood products, machinery and equipment, metals,
  textiles, foodstuffs

Lebanon
  authentic jewelry, inorganic chemicals, miscellaneous
  consumer goods, fruit and vegetables, tobacco, construction
  minerals, electric power machinery and switchgear, textile fibers,
  paper

Lesotho
  manufactures 75% (clothing, footwear, road vehicles), wool
  and mohair, food and live animals (2000)

Liberia
  rubber, timber, iron, diamonds, cocoa, coffee

Libya
  crude oil, refined petroleum products, natural gas, chemicals

Liechtenstein
  small specialty machinery, connectors for audio and
  video, parts for motor vehicles, dental products, hardware, prepared
  foodstuffs, electronic equipment, optical products

Lithuania
  mineral products 23%, textiles and clothing 16%, machinery
  and equipment 11%, chemicals 6%, wood and wood products 5%,
  foodstuffs 5% (2001)

Luxembourg
  machinery and equipment, steel products, chemicals,
  rubber products, glass

Macau
  clothing, textiles, footwear, toys, electronics, machinery and
  parts

Macedonia
  food, beverages, tobacco; textiles, miscellaneous
  manufactures, iron and steel

Madagascar
  coffee, vanilla, shellfish, sugar, cotton cloth,
  chromite, petroleum products

Malawi
  tobacco 53%, tea, sugar, cotton, coffee, peanuts, wood
  products, apparel

Malaysia
  electronic equipment, petroleum and liquefied natural gas,
  wood and wood products, palm oil, rubber, textiles, chemicals

Maldives
  fish

Mali
  cotton, gold, livestock

Malta
  machinery and transport equipment, manufactures

Marshall Islands
  copra cake, coconut oil, handicrafts, fish

Mauritania
  iron ore, fish and fish products, gold

Mauritius
  clothing and textiles, sugar, cut flowers, molasses, fish

Mayotte
  ylang-ylang (perfume essence), vanilla, copra, coconuts,
  coffee, cinnamon

Mexico
  manufactured goods, oil and oil products, silver, fruits,
  vegetables, coffee, cotton

Micronesia, Federated States of
  fish, garments, bananas, black
  pepper, sakau (kava), betel nut

Moldova
  foodstuffs, textiles, machinery

Mongolia
  copper, apparel, livestock, animal products, cashmere,
  wool, hides, fluorspar, other nonferrous metals

Montserrat
  electronic components, plastic bags, apparel; hot
  peppers, limes, live plants; cattle

Morocco
  clothing and textiles, electric components, inorganic
  chemicals, transistors, crude minerals, fertilizers (including
  phosphates), petroleum products, citrus fruits, vegetables, fish

Mozambique
  aluminum, prawns, cashews, cotton, sugar, citrus, timber;
  bulk electricity

Namibia
  diamonds, copper, gold, zinc, lead, uranium; cattle,
  processed fish, karakul skins

Nauru
  phosphates

Nepal
  carpets, clothing, leather goods, jute goods, grain

Netherlands
  machinery and equipment, chemicals, fuels; foodstuffs

Netherlands Antilles
  petroleum products

New Caledonia
  ferronickels, nickel ore, fish

New Zealand
  dairy products, meat, wood and wood products, fish,
  machinery

Nicaragua
  coffee, beef, shrimp and lobster, tobacco, sugar, gold,
  peanuts

Niger
  uranium ore, livestock, cowpeas, onions

Nigeria
  petroleum and petroleum products 95%, cocoa, rubber

Niue
  canned coconut cream, copra, honey, vanilla, passion fruit
  products, pawpaws, root crops, limes, footballs, stamps, handicrafts

Norfolk Island
  postage stamps, seeds of the Norfolk Island pine and
  Kentia palm, small quantities of avocados

Northern Mariana Islands
  garments

Norway
  petroleum and petroleum products, machinery and equipment,
  metals, chemicals, ships, fish

Oman
  petroleum, reexports, fish, metals, textiles

Pakistan
  textiles (garments, bed linen, cotton cloth, yarn), rice,
  leather goods, sports goods, chemicals, manufactures, carpets and
  rugs

Palau
  shellfish, tuna, copra, garments

Panama
  bananas, shrimp, sugar, coffee, clothing

Papua New Guinea
  oil, gold, copper ore, logs, palm oil, coffee,
  cocoa, crayfish, prawns

Paraguay
  soybeans, feed, cotton, meat, edible oils, electricity,
  wood, leather

Peru
  copper, gold, zinc, crude petroleum and petroleum products,
  coffee, potatoes, asparagus, textiles, guinea pigs

Philippines
  semiconductors and electronic products, transport
  equipment, garments, copper products, petroleum products, coconut
  oil, fruits

Pitcairn Islands
  fruits, vegetables, curios, stamps

Poland
  machinery and transport equipment 37.8%, intermediate
  manufactured goods 23.7%, miscellaneous manufactured goods 17.1%,
  food and live animals 7.6% (2003)

Portugal
  agricultural products, food products, oil products,
  chemical products, plastics and rubber, skins and leather, wood and
  cork, wood pulp and paper, textile materials, clothing, footwear,
  minerals and mineral products, base metals, machinery and tools,
  vehicles and other transport material, and optical and precision

Puerto Rico
  chemicals, electronics, apparel, canned tuna, rum,
  beverage concentrates, medical equipment

Qatar
  liquefied natural gas (LNG), petroleum products, fertilizers,
  steel

Romania
  machinery and equipment, textiles and footwear, metals and
  metal products, machinery and equipment, minerals and fuels,
  chemicals, agricultural products

Russia
  petroleum and petroleum products, natural gas, wood and wood
  products, metals, chemicals, and a wide variety of civilian and
  military manufactures

Rwanda
  coffee, tea, hides, tin ore

Saint Helena
  fish (frozen, canned, and salt-dried skipjack, tuna),
  coffee, handicrafts

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  machinery, food, electronics, beverages,
  tobacco

Saint Lucia
  bananas 41%, clothing, cocoa, vegetables, fruits,
  coconut oil

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  fish and fish products, soybeans, animal
  feed, mollusks and crustaceans, fox and mink pelts

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  bananas, eddoes and dasheen (taro),
  arrowroot starch; tennis racquets

Samoa
  fish, coconut oil and cream, copra, taro, automotive parts,
  garments, beer

San Marino
  building stone, lime, wood, chestnuts, wheat, wine, baked
  goods, hides, ceramics

Sao Tome and Principe
  cocoa 80%, copra, coffee, palm oil

Saudi Arabia
  petroleum and petroleum products 90%

Senegal
  fish, groundnuts (peanuts), petroleum products, phosphates,
  cotton

Serbia
  manufactured goods, food and live animals, machinery and
  transport equipment

Seychelles
  canned tuna, frozen fish, cinnamon bark, copra, petroleum
  products (reexports)

Sierra Leone
  diamonds, rutile, cocoa, coffee, fish

Singapore
  machinery and equipment (including electronics), consumer
  goods, chemicals, mineral fuels

Slovakia
  vehicles 25.9%, machinery and electrical equipment 21.3%,
  base metals 14.6%, chemicals and minerals 10.1%, plastics 5.4% (2004)

Slovenia
  manufactured goods, machinery and transport equipment,
  chemicals, food

Solomon Islands
  timber, fish, copra, palm oil, cocoa

Somalia
  livestock, bananas, hides, fish, charcoal, scrap metal

South Africa
  gold, diamonds, platinum, other metals and minerals,
  machinery and equipment

Spain
  machinery, motor vehicles; foodstuffs, pharmaceuticals,
  medicines, other consumer goods

Sri Lanka
  textiles and apparel, tea and spices; diamonds, emeralds,
  rubies; coconut products, rubber manufactures, fish

Sudan
  oil and petroleum products; cotton, sesame, livestock,
  groundnuts, gum arabic, sugar

Suriname
  alumina, gold, crude oil, lumber, shrimp and fish, rice,
  bananas

Swaziland
  soft drink concentrates, sugar, wood pulp, cotton yarn,
  refrigerators, citrus and canned fruit

Sweden
  machinery 35%, motor vehicles, paper products, pulp and wood,
  iron and steel products, chemicals

Switzerland
  machinery, chemicals, metals, watches, agricultural
  products

Syria
  crude oil, minerals, petroleum products, fruits and
  vegetables, cotton fiber, textiles, clothing, meat and live animals,
  wheat

Taiwan
  electronic and electrical products, metals, textiles,
  plastics, chemicals, auto parts (2002)

Tajikistan
  aluminum, electricity, cotton, fruits, vegetable oil,
  textiles

Tanzania
  gold, coffee, cashew nuts, manufactures, cotton

Thailand
  textiles and footwear, fishery products, rice, rubber,
  jewelry, automobiles, computers and electrical appliances

Timor-Leste
  coffee, sandalwood, marble; note - potential for oil and
  vanilla exports

Togo
  reexports, cotton, phosphates, coffee, cocoa

Tokelau
  stamps, copra, handicrafts

Tonga
  squash, fish, vanilla beans, root crops

Trinidad and Tobago
  petroleum and petroleum products, liquefied
  natural gas (LNG), methanol, ammonia, urea, steel products,
  beverages, cereal and cereal products, sugar, cocoa, coffee, citrus
  fruit, vegetables, flowers

Tunisia
  clothing, semi-finished goods and textiles, agricultural
  products, mechanical goods, phosphates and chemicals, hydrocarbons,
  electrical equipment

Turkey
  apparel, foodstuffs, textiles, metal manufactures, transport
  equipment

Turkmenistan
  gas, crude oil, petrochemicals, textiles, cotton fiber

Turks and Caicos Islands
  lobster, dried and fresh conch, conch shells

Tuvalu
  copra, fish

Uganda
  coffee, fish and fish products, tea, cotton, flowers,
  horticultural products; gold

Ukraine
  ferrous and nonferrous metals, fuel and petroleum products,
  chemicals, machinery and transport equipment, food products

United Arab Emirates
  crude oil 45%, natural gas, reexports, dried
  fish, dates

United Kingdom
  manufactured goods, fuels, chemicals; food,
  beverages, tobacco

United States
  agricultural products (soybeans, fruit, corn) 9.2%,
  industrial supplies (organic chemicals) 26.8%, capital goods
  (transistors, aircraft, motor vehicle parts, computers,
  telecommunications equipment) 49.0%, consumer goods (automobiles,
  medicines) 15.0% (2003)

Uruguay
  meat, rice, leather products, wool, fish, dairy products

Uzbekistan
  cotton, gold, energy products, mineral fertilizers,
  ferrous and non-ferrous metals, textiles, food products, machinery,
  automobiles

Vanuatu
  copra, beef, cocoa, timber, kava, coffee

Venezuela
  petroleum, bauxite and aluminum, steel, chemicals,
  agricultural products, basic manufactures

Vietnam
  crude oil, marine products, rice, coffee, rubber, tea,
  garments, shoes

Virgin Islands
  refined petroleum products

Wallis and Futuna
  copra, chemicals, construction materials

West Bank
  olives, fruit, vegetables, limestone

Western Sahara
  phosphates 62%

World
  the whole range of industrial and agricultural goods and
  services
  top ten - share of world trade: electrical machinery, including
  computers 14.8%; mineral fuels, including oil, coal, gas, and
  refined products 14.4%; nuclear reactors, boilers, and parts 14.2%;
  cars, trucks, and buses 8.9%; scientific and precision instruments
  3.5%; plastics 3.4%; iron and steel 2.7%; organic chemicals 2.6%;
  pharmaceutical products 2.6%; diamonds, pearls, and precious stones
  1.9% (2006 est.)

Yemen
  crude oil, coffee, dried and salted fish

Zambia
  copper/cobalt 64%, cobalt, electricity; tobacco, flowers,
  cotton

Zimbabwe
  platinum, cotton, tobacco, gold, ferroalloys,
  textiles/clothing

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2050  Exports - partners (%)


Afghanistan
  India 22.8%, Pakistan 21.8%, US 20.5%, Tajikistan 7.2%
  (2007)

Albania
  Italy 72%, Greece 8.8%, China 2.7% (2007)

Algeria
  US 29.4%, Italy 13.8%, Spain 9.6%, Canada 8.4%, France 7.4%,
  Netherlands 5% (2007)

American Samoa
  Indonesia 28.2%, India 22.3%, Australia 15.3%, Japan
  11.2%, NZ 7.1% (2006)

Angola
  US 32.1%, China 32%, France 5.9%, Taiwan 5.3%, South Africa
  4.5% (2007)

Anguilla
  UK, US, Puerto Rico, Saint-Martin (2006)

Antigua and Barbuda
  Spain 34%, Germany 20.7%, Italy 7.7%, Singapore
  5.8%, UK 4.9% (2006)

Argentina
  Brazil 19.1%, China 9.4%, US 7.9%, Chile 7.6% (2007)

Armenia
  Russia 17.5%, Germany 14.7%, Netherlands 13.5%, Belgium
  8.7%, Georgia 7.6%, US 6.6%, Switzerland 4.3%, Bulgaria 4.1%,
  Ukraine 4% (2007)

Aruba
  Panama 29.7%, Colombia 17%, Netherlands Antilles 13.2%, US
  11.3%, Venezuela 10.9%, Netherlands 9.2% (2007)

Australia
  Japan 18.9%, China 14.2%, South Korea 8%, US 6%, NZ 5.6%,
  India 5.5%, UK 4.2% (2007)

Austria
  Germany 29.8%, Italy 8.8%, US 4.9%, Switzerland 4.3% (2007)

Azerbaijan
  Turkey 17.4%, Italy 15.5%, Russia 8.7%, Iran 7.2%,
  Indonesia 6.4%, Israel 6.1%, Georgia 5.7%, US 4.8%, France 4.3%
  (2007)

Bahamas, The
  US 20.4%, Singapore 15.5%, Spain 14.5%, Poland 14.3%,
  Germany 6.6%, Guatemala 5.7%, Switzerland 5.2% (2007)

Bahrain
  Saudi Arabia 3.5%, US 2.5%, UAE 2.5% (2007)

Bangladesh
  US 23%, Germany 13%, UK 9.1%, France 5.5%, Belgium 4%
  (2007)

Barbados
  Trinidad and Tobago 15.5%, Jamaica 13.5%, UK 9.4%, US 9.3%,
  Brazil 8.3%, Saint Lucia 7.2%, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 4.5%
  (2007)

Belarus
  Russia 36.5%, Netherlands 17.8%, UK 6.3%, Ukraine 6.1%,
  Poland 5%, Latvia 4.1% (2007)

Belgium
  Germany 19.5%, France 16.7%, Netherlands 11.9%, UK 7.6%, US
  5.7%, Italy 5.2% (2007)

Belize
  US 28.7%, UK 16.3%, Thailand 5.8%, Cote d'Ivoire 5.4%,
  Finland 4.2%, Spain 4% (2007)

Benin
  China 24.7%, India 8.2%, Niger 6.6%, Togo 5.4%, Nigeria 5.3%,
  Belgium 4.6% (2007)

Bermuda
  Spain 13.8%, Germany 11.7%, Switzerland 8.8%, Denmark 6.6%,
  UK 6% (2007)

Bhutan
  India 58.6%, Hong Kong 30.1%, Bangladesh 7.3% (2007)

Bolivia
  Brazil 46%, US 9.8%, Japan 7.6%, Argentina 5.8%, South Korea
  4.8%, Peru 4.1% (2007)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  Croatia 21%, Slovenia 16.5%, Italy 16.1%,
  Germany 13.3%, Austria 9.6%, Hungary 5.7% (2007)

Botswana
  European Free Trade Association (EFTA) 87%, Southern
  African Customs Union (SACU) 7%, Zimbabwe 4% (2006)

Brazil
  US 16.1%, Argentina 9.2%, China 6.8%, Netherlands 5.6%,
  Germany 4.6% (2007)

British Virgin Islands
  Virgin Islands (US), Puerto Rico, US (2006)

Brunei
  Japan 32.8%, Indonesia 24.4%, Australia 13.4%, South Korea
  12.2%, US 5.5% (2007)

Bulgaria
  Turkey 11.5%, Germany 10.3%, Italy 10.2%, Greece 9.1%,
  Belgium 6.2%, Romania 4.9% (2007)

Burkina Faso
  China 29.6%, Singapore 15.7%, Thailand 7.2%, Ghana
  6.4%, Niger 4.8% (2007)

Burma
  Thailand 44.3%, India 14.5%, China 7.1%, Japan 5.7% (2007)

Burundi
  Germany 31.3%, Pakistan 6.8%, Belgium 5.8%, Sweden 4.3%,
  Rwanda 4.3%, France 4.2%, Sudan 4% (2007)

Cambodia
  US 58.1%, Germany 7.3%, UK 5.2%, Canada 4.6%, Vietnam 4.5%
  (2007)

Cameroon
  Spain 19.8%, Italy 15.7%, France 11.7%, South Korea 9.4%,
  Netherlands 6.1%, US 5.7% (2007)

Canada
  US 78.9%, UK 2.8%, China 2.1% (2007)

Cape Verde
  Spain 37.2%, Portugal 29.9%, Morocco 7%, US 6.6% (2007)

Cayman Islands
  mostly US (2006)

Central African Republic
  Belgium 22.7%, Indonesia 19.3%, Italy 7.7%,
  France 7.1%, Spain 6.9%, Democratic Republic of the Congo 6.8%,
  China 4.9%, Turkey 4.7% (2007)

Chad
  US 89.5%, Japan 3.7%, China 3.4% (2007)

Chile
  China 14.8%, US 12.5%, Japan 10.5%, Netherlands 5.8%, South
  Korea 5.7%, Italy 5.1%, Brazil 5% (2007)

China
  US 19.1%, Hong Kong 15.1%, Japan 8.4%, South Korea 4.6%,
  Germany 4% (2007)

Christmas Island
  Australia, NZ (2006)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  Australia (2006)

Colombia
  US 35.4%, Venezuela 17.4%, Ecuador 4.3% (2007)

Comoros
  Turkey 38%, France 27.5%, Singapore 9.2%, Saudi Arabia 4.1%
  (2007)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  Belgium 23.6%, China 21.7%, US
  9.8%, Finland 9.1%, Brazil 9.1%, France 6.8%, Zambia 6% (2007)

Congo, Republic of the
  US 41%, China 36.5%, Taiwan 3.6% (2007)

Cook Islands
  Australia 34%, Japan 27%, NZ 25%, US 8% (2006)

Costa Rica
  US 25.7%, China 14.1%, Netherlands 10.9%, UK 6.3%, Mexico
  5% (2007)

Cote d'Ivoire
  Germany 9.7%, Nigeria 9.2%, Netherlands 8.4%, France
  7.3%, US 7%, Burkina Faso 4.4% (2007)

Croatia
  Italy 19.3%, Bosnia and Herzegovina 13.9%, Germany 10.2%,
  Slovenia 8.4%, Austria 6.2% (2007)

Cuba
  China 27.5%, Canada 26.9%, Netherlands 11.1%, Spain 4.7% (2007)

Cyprus
  Greece 21.1%, UK 14.3%, Germany 6.6% (2007)

Czech Republic
  Germany 30.7%, Slovakia 8.7%, Poland 5.9%, France
  5.4%, UK 5.1%, Italy 4.9%, Austria 4.6% (2007)

Denmark
  Germany 17.4%, Sweden 14.5%, UK 8%, US 6.1%, Norway 5.7%,
  France 4.8%, Netherlands 4.8% (2007)

Djibouti
  Somalia 66.4%, Ethiopia 21.5%, Yemen 3.4% (2007)

Dominica
  China 24.4%, Jamaica 10.3%, Antigua and Barbuda 10.1%,
  Guyana 8.5%, UK 8.2%, Trinidad and Tobago 5.5%, Saint Lucia 4.6%,
  Saint Kitts & Nevis 4% (2007)

Dominican Republic
  US 66.4%, Belgium 3.7%, Finland 3.2% (2007)

Ecuador
  US 41.9%, Peru 8.5%, Chile 4.9%, Russia 4.8%, Colombia 4.7%
  (2007)

Egypt
  US 9.7%, Italy 9.5%, Spain 7.6%, Syria 5.5%, Saudi Arabia
  4.9%, UK 4.2% (2007)

El Salvador
  US 51%, Guatemala 13.6%, Honduras 11.2%, Nicaragua 5.5%
  (2007)

Equatorial Guinea
  US 20.6%, China 18.8%, Spain 13.9%, Taiwan 13.4%,
  France 7.5%, Japan 6.5%, Portugal 6.4% (2007)

Eritrea
  Italy 34.4%, China 16.2%, Sudan 15.2%, France 9.4%, Saudi
  Arabia 5.2%, Australia 4.4% (2007)

Estonia
  Finland 17.9%, Sweden 13.2%, Latvia 11.4%, Russia 8.9%,
  Lithuania 5.8%, Germany 5.2%, US 4.1% (2007)

Ethiopia
  Germany 8.2%, Saudi Arabia 7%, US 6.9%, Djibouti 6.6%,
  China 6.5%, Italy 6.5%, Japan 5.9%, Netherlands 4.8% (2007)

European Union
  US 23.3%, Switzerland 7.6%, Russia 5.2%, China 4.8%
  (2006)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  Spain 81.9%, US 6%, UK 4.5% (2006)

Faroe Islands
  Denmark 29.6%, UK 24.5%, Norway 13.3%, Nigeria 10.5%,
  Netherlands 6.8% (2007)

Fiji
  US 17.3%, UK 11.3%, Australia 10%, Samoa 5.4%, Tonga 4.7%, NZ
  4.5%, Japan 4.1% (2007)

Finland
  Germany 10.9%, Sweden 10.7%, Russia 10.3%, US 6.4%, UK 5.8%,
  Netherlands 5.6% (2007)

France
  Germany 14.9%, Spain 9.3%, Italy 8.9%, UK 8.1%, Belgium 7.3%,
  US 6.1%, Netherlands 4.1% (2007)

French Polynesia
  France 46.3%, Japan 20.8%, Niger 12.8%, US 12.5%
  (2006)

Gabon
  US 32.5%, China 15.8%, France 9.4%, Malaysia 6%, Trinidad and
  Tobago 5% (2007)

Gambia, The
  India 37.7%, China 17.5%, UK 8.7%, France 5.1%, Belgium
  4.2% (2007)

Gaza Strip
  Israel, Egypt, West Bank (2006)

Georgia
  Turkey 13%, US 11.2%, Azerbaijan 6.3%, UK 5.4%, Bulgaria
  5.1%, Ukraine 5%, Armenia 4.8%, Turkmenistan 4.5%, Canada 4.2% (2007)

Germany
  France 9.7%, US 7.5%, UK 7.3%, Italy 6.7%, Netherlands 6.4%,
  Austria 5.4%, Belgium 5.3%, Spain 5% (2007)

Ghana
  Netherlands 11%, UK 9%, France 6.2%, US 5.9%, Germany 4.6%,
  Belgium 4.4% (2007)

Gibraltar
  UK 30.8%, Spain 22.7%, Germany 13.7%, Turkmenistan 10.4%,
  Switzerland 8.3%, Italy 6.7% (2006)

Greece
  Germany 11.6%, Italy 10.8%, Cyprus 6.6%, Bulgaria 6.5%, UK
  5.5%, Romania 4.5%, France 4.2%, US 4.2% (2007)

Greenland
  Denmark 61.8%, Japan 9.9%, Canada 7.3%, China 5.8% (2007)

Grenada
  Jamaica 92.8%, Saint Lucia 1.3%, US 1.2% (2007)

Guam
  Japan 67.2%, Singapore 11.6%, UK 4.8% (2006)

Guatemala
  US 42.2%, El Salvador 9.6%, Honduras 8.6%, Mexico 6.5%,
  Costa Rica 4.5% (2007)

Guernsey
  UK; note - regarded as internal trade (2006)

Guinea
  Russia 10.8%, Ukraine 9.6%, Spain 8.8%, US 7.5%, Germany
  7.4%, South Korea 7.2%, France 7%, Ireland 5.5%, China 5% (2007)

Guinea-Bissau
  Brazil 56.2%, India 33.6%, Nigeria 8.3% (2007)

Guyana
  Canada 18.7%, US 16.5%, UK 9.1%, Portugal 7.6%, Trinidad and
  Tobago 5.2%, France 4.7%, Netherlands 4.6%, Jamaica 4% (2007)

Haiti
  US 72.9%, Dominican Republic 8.8%, Canada 3.3% (2007)

Honduras
  US 67.2%, El Salvador 4.9%, Guatemala 3.9% (2007)

Hong Kong
  China 48.7%, US 13.7%, Japan 4.5% (2007)

Hungary
  Germany 28.1%, Italy 5.6%, France 4.7%, Austria 4.6%,
  Romania 4.5%, UK 4.5%, Slovakia 4.2%, Poland 4.2% (2007)

Iceland
  Netherlands 21.3%, Germany 13.3%, UK 13.2%, Ireland 7.7%, US
  7.3%, Spain 4.6%, Japan 4.3% (2007)

India
  US 15%, China 8.7%, UAE 8.7%, UK 4.4% (2007)

Indonesia
  Japan 20.7%, US 10.2%, Singapore 9.2%, China 8.5%, South
  Korea 6.6%, Malaysia 4.5%, India 4.3% (2007)

Iran
  China 15%, Japan 14.3%, Turkey 7.4%, South Korea 7.3%, Italy
  6.4% (2007)

Iraq
  US 36.8%, Italy 12.6%, South Korea 9.5%, Taiwan 6.3%, Spain
  5.2%, Canada 4.7%, France 4.4%, Netherlands 4.2% (2007)

Ireland
  UK 18.7%, US 17.9%, Belgium 14.5%, Germany 7.4%, France 5.8%
  (2007)

Isle of Man
  UK (2006)

Israel
  US 35%, Belgium 7.5%, Hong Kong 5.8% (2007)

Italy
  Germany 12.9%, France 11.4%, Spain 7.4%, US 6.8%, UK 5.8%
  (2007)

Jamaica
  US 37.2%, Canada 15%, UK 9.7%, Netherlands 9.1% (2007)

Japan
  US 20.4%, China 15.3%, South Korea 7.6%, Taiwan 6.3%, Hong
  Kong 5.4% (2007)

Jersey
  UK (2006)

Jordan
  US 22.4%, Iraq 12.9%, India 8.3%, UAE 7.8%, Saudi Arabia
  7.5%, Syria 4.9% (2007)

Kazakhstan
  China 15.5%, Germany 11.5%, Russia 11.2%, Italy 7.2%,
  France 6.7% (2007)

Kenya
  Uganda 16.9%, UK 9.3%, Tanzania 8.2%, Netherlands 8.2%, US
  6.4%, Pakistan 5.2% (2007)

Kiribati
  US 22.8%, Belgium 21.5%, Japan 14.3%, Samoa 7.8%, Australia
  7.5%, Malaysia 6.7%, Taiwan 5.6%, Denmark 4.6% (2006)

Korea, North
  South Korea 32%, China 29%, Thailand 9% (2006)

Korea, South
  China 22.1%, US 12.4%, Japan 7.1%, Hong Kong 5% (2007)

Kosovo
  Central Europe Free Trade Area (CFTA) 56% (2006)

Kuwait
  Japan 19.9%, South Korea 17%, Taiwan 11.2%, Singapore 9.9%,
  US 8.4%, Netherlands 4.8%, China 4.4% (2007)

Kyrgyzstan
  Russia 20.7%, Switzerland 19.9%, Kazakhstan 18%,
  Afghanistan 10.4%, Uzbekistan 7.6%, China 5.5% (2007)

Laos
  Thailand 32.7%, Vietnam 14.3%, China 5.9%, South Korea 4.8%
  (2007)

Latvia
  Lithuania 15.1%, Estonia 13.8%, Russia 13%, Germany 8.3%,
  Sweden 7.4%, UK 6.5% (2007)

Lebanon
  Syria 25.2%, UAE 11.8%, Switzerland 8.2%, Saudi Arabia 5.6%
  (2007)

Lesotho
  US 71.5%, Belgium 25.6%, Canada 1.2% (2007)

Liberia
  Malaysia 27.5%, Poland 18.5%, Germany 11.5%, US 10.5%, Spain
  8.2%, Norway 5.5% (2007)

Libya
  Italy 40.5%, Germany 12.2%, US 7.4%, Spain 7.4%, France 6.3%
  (2007)

Liechtenstein
  EU 62.6% (Germany 24.3%, Austria 9.5%, France 8.9%,
  Italy 6.6%, UK 4.6%), US 18.9%, Switzerland 15.7% (2006)

Lithuania
  Russia 15%, Latvia 12.9%, Germany 10.5%, Poland 6.3%,
  Estonia 5.8%, UK 4.6%, Denmark 4.1%, Belarus 4% (2007)

Luxembourg
  Germany 21.1%, France 16.3%, Belgium 10.1%, Italy 7.4%,
  UK 7.1%, Netherlands 5.4%, Spain 5% (2007)

Macau
  US 40.6%, China 14.8%, Hong Kong 13.1%, Germany 6.4%, UK 4%
  (2007)

Macedonia
  Serbia and Montenegro 19.2%, Germany 14.5%, Greece 10.4%,
  Italy 10.1%, Bulgaria 9.8%, Croatia 5.6%, Belgium 5%, Spain 5% (2007)

Madagascar
  France 31.8%, US 26.6%, Germany 6.1%, UK 4.9%, Italy 4.4%
  (2007)

Malawi
  Germany 11.7%, South Africa 10%, Egypt 9.2%, Zimbabwe 8.2%,
  US 7.3%, Russia 5.8%, Netherlands 4.5% (2007)

Malaysia
  US 15.6%, Singapore 14.6%, Japan 9.1%, China 8.8%, Thailand
  5%, Hong Kong 4.6% (2007)

Maldives
  Thailand 28.3%, UK 17.6%, France 8.8%, Sri Lanka 8.6%,
  Algeria 8.2%, Japan 6.4%, Italy 4.1% (2007)

Mali
  China 19.6%, Thailand 10.5%, Brazil 4.6%, France 4.5%,
  Indonesia 4.5% (2007)

Malta
  Singapore 14.4%, Germany 13.7%, France 12.6%, US 11.3%, UK
  10%, Hong Kong 6.1%, Japan 4.9%, Italy 4% (2007)

Marshall Islands
  US, Japan, Australia, China (2006)

Mauritania
  China 30.5%, France 9.5%, Italy 8.5%, Spain 8.5%, Japan
  5.5%, Netherlands 5.3%, Belgium 5%, Cote d'Ivoire 4.7% (2007)

Mauritius
  UK 35.1%, France 14.4%, US 7.7%, Madagascar 6.3%, Italy
  5.8% (2007)

Mayotte
  France 43%, Comoros 36%, Reunion 15% (2006)

Mexico
  US 82.2%, Canada 2.4%, Germany 1.5% (2007)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  Japan, US, Guam (2006)

Moldova
  Russia 25.3%, Romania 13%, Italy 10%, Ukraine 8.7%, Germany
  8.5%, Poland 6.2%, Belarus 4.2% (2007)

Mongolia
  China 71.9%, Canada 10.7%, US 4.8% (2007)

Montenegro
  Switzerland 83.9%, Italy 6.1%, Bosnia and Herzegovina
  1.3% (2006)

Montserrat
  US, Antigua and Barbuda (2006)

Morocco
  Spain 21.2%, France 19%, Italy 4.9%, UK 4.6%, India 4.2%
  (2007)

Mozambique
  Italy 19.4%, Belgium 18.4%, Spain 12.5%, South Africa
  12.3%, UK 7.3%, China 4.1% (2007)

Namibia
  South Africa 33.4%, US 4% (2006)

Nauru
  South Africa 63.7%, South Korea 7.6%, Canada 6.6% (2006)

Nepal
  India 69.3%, US 8.8%, Germany 4.1% (2007)

Netherlands
  Germany 24.4%, Belgium 13.6%, UK 9.1%, France 8.5%,
  Italy 5.1%, US 4.3% (2007)

Netherlands Antilles
  US 18.9%, Mexico 13.3%, Panama 11.4%, Singapore
  6.9%, Haiti 6.6%, Bahamas, The 5.3% (2007)

New Caledonia
  Japan 20.1%, China 14.5%, Taiwan 14.2%, France 11.6%,
  Belgium 10.4%, Spain 8.6%, South Africa 6.9% (2007)

New Zealand
  Australia 22%, US 11.5%, Japan 9.2%, China 5.3%, UK 4.6%
  (2007)

Nicaragua
  US 31.7%, El Salvador 14%, Honduras 9.3%, Costa Rica 7.2%,
  Canada 5.8%, Guatemala 5.5%, Mexico 4.8% (2007)

Niger
  France 57%, Nigeria 26.4%, Ghana 4.1% (2007)

Nigeria
  US 51.6%, Brazil 8.9%, Spain 7.7% (2007)

Niue
  New Zealand mainly, Fiji, Cook Islands, Australia (2006)

Norfolk Island
  Australia, other Pacific island countries, NZ, Asia,
  Europe (2006)

Northern Mariana Islands
  US (2006)

Norway
  UK 26.3%, Germany 12.3%, Netherlands 10.2%, France 8%, Sweden
  6.5%, US 6.2% (2007)

Oman
  China 26.8%, South Korea 15.2%, Japan 14.3%, Thailand 10.4%,
  UAE 7.6%, US 4.3%, Iran 4.1% (2007)

Pakistan
  US 18%, UAE 10.4%, Afghanistan 8.4%, China 5.2%, UK 4.7%
  (2007)

Palau
  US, Japan, Singapore (2006)

Panama
  US 35.6%, Netherlands 10.2%, China 6%, Sweden 5.5%, UK 5.4%,
  Costa Rica 5.1%, Spain 5% (2007)

Papua New Guinea
  Australia 27.3%, Japan 9.5%, China 5.7% (2007)

Paraguay
  Argentina 28.1%, Uruguay 15.2%, Brazil 12.7%, Chile 5.9%,
  Germany 4.9%, Russia 4.5% (2007)

Peru
  US 19.5%, China 12.7%, Canada 7.6%, Japan 7.5%, Chile 5.9%,
  Switzerland 4.2%, Spain 4.1% (2007)

Philippines
  US 17%, Japan 14.5%, Hong Kong 11.5%, China 11.4%,
  Netherlands 8.2%, Singapore 6.2%, Malaysia 5%, Germany 4.3% (2007)

Poland
  Germany 25.9%, Italy 6.6%, France 6.1%, UK 5.9%, Czech
  Republic 5.5%, Russia 4.6% (2007)

Portugal
  Spain 27.1%, Germany 12.9%, France 12.3%, UK 5.9%, US 4.8%,
  Angola 4.5%, Italy 4% (2007)

Puerto Rico
  US 90.3%, UK 1.6%, Netherlands 1.4%, Dominican Republic
  1.4% (2006)

Qatar
  Japan 39.9%, South Korea 19.9%, Singapore 9.9%, India 5.1%,
  Thailand 4.9%, UAE 4% (2007)

Romania
  Italy 17.2%, Germany 16.9%, France 7.7%, Turkey 7%, Hungary
  5.6%, UK 4.1% (2007)

Russia
  Netherlands 12.2%, Italy 7.8%, Germany 7.5%, Turkey 5.2%,
  Belarus 5%, Ukraine 4.7%, China 4.5% (2007)

Rwanda
  China 8.9%, Germany 6.8%, US 4.9%, Hong Kong 4.8% (2007)

Saint Helena
  Tanzania 37.7%, US 17.4%, Japan 15.2%, UK 8.4%, Nigeria
  4.8%, Spain 4.5% (2006)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  US 66.3%, Canada 4.9%, Turkey 3.3% (2007)

Saint Lucia
  US 24.5%, France 23.2%, UK 19.3%, Antigua and Barbuda
  5%, Dominica 4.9%, Barbados 4.4%, Trinidad and Tobago 4.1% (2007)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  Spain 33.6%, Belgium 21.8%, India 18.3%,
  France 9.4%, US 7.5% (2006)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  Greece 28.4%, Italy 14.6%, France
  12%, UK 7.5%, Trinidad and Tobago 4.8%, Spain 4.6%, Germany 4.3%,
  Saint Lucia 4.2% (2007)

Samoa
  Australia 48.1%, American Samoa 30%, Taiwan 8% (2007)

Sao Tome and Principe
  Netherlands 23.7%, Belgium 23.7%, France
  12.9%, US 5.9%, Portugal 4.1% (2007)

Saudi Arabia
  US 17.1%, Japan 16.3%, South Korea 9.7%, China 8.1%,
  Taiwan 4.7%, Singapore 4% (2007)

Senegal
  Mali 18.9%, France 9.1%, Italy 5.9%, India 5.7%, Gambia, The
  5.2% (2007)

Seychelles
  UK 23.7%, France 19.8%, Mauritius 10%, Japan 8.3%, Italy
  5.7%, Spain 5.1% (2007)

Sierra Leone
  Belgium 49.3%, US 20.5%, Netherlands 4.5%, Canada 4.1%
  (2007)

Singapore
  Malaysia 12.9%, Hong Kong 10.5%, Indonesia 9.8%, China
  9.7%, US 8.9%, Japan 4.8%, Thailand 4.1% (2007)

Slovakia
  Germany 21.4%, Czech Republic 12.6%, France 6.7%, Italy
  6.4%, Poland 6.2%, Hungary 6%, Austria 5.8%, UK 4.8% (2007)

Slovenia
  Germany 18.7%, Italy 12.5%, Croatia 8%, Austria 7.5%,
  France 5.9%, Russia 4.4% (2007)

Solomon Islands
  China 50.8%, South Korea 7%, Thailand 6.5%, Japan
  5.7%, Philippines 4.3% (2007)

Somalia
  UAE 50.7%, Yemen 21%, Oman 6.1% (2007)

South Africa
  US 11.9%, Japan 11.1%, Germany 8%, UK 7.7%, China 6.6%,
  Netherlands 4.5% (2007)

Spain
  France 18.8%, Germany 10.8%, Portugal 8.6%, Italy 8.5%, UK
  7.6%, US 4.2% (2007)

Sri Lanka
  US 25.5%, UK 13.2%, India 6.7%, Germany 5.7%, Italy 5.1%
  (2007)

Sudan
  China 82.1%, Japan 8.4%, UAE 2.5% (2007)

Suriname
  Canada 26.8%, Norway 20.2%, Belgium 9.2%, US 8.9%, UAE
  7.9%, France 7.2% (2007)

Swaziland
  South Africa 59.7%, EU 8.8%, US 8.8%, Mozambique 6.2%
  (2006)

Sweden
  Germany 10.4%, Norway 9.4%, US 7.6%, Denmark 7.4%, UK 7.1%,
  Finland 6.4%, Netherlands 5.1%, France 5%, Belgium 4.6% (2007)

Switzerland
  Germany 20.3%, US 9.7%, Italy 8.7%, France 8.4%, UK 5.1%
  (2007)

Syria
  Iraq 30%, Lebanon 10%, Germany 9.7%, Italy 8%, Egypt 5.5%,
  Saudi Arabia 5.2%, France 4.9% (2007)

Taiwan
  China 32.6%, US 12.9%, Hong Kong 8.6%, Japan 6.4%, Singapore
  5% (2007)

Tajikistan
  Netherlands 38.9%, Turkey 32.5%, Russia 6.6%, Uzbekistan
  5.9%, Iran 5.1% (2007)

Tanzania
  China 10.3%, India 9.7%, Netherlands 6.5%, Germany 6.3%,
  UAE 4.9% (2007)

Thailand
  US 12.6%, Japan 11.9%, China 9.7%, Singapore 6.3%, Hong
  Kong 5.7%, Malaysia 5.1% (2007)

Timor-Leste
  US, Germany, Portugal, Australia, Indonesia (2006)

Togo
  Ghana 16.8%, Burkina Faso 14.5%, Germany 9.2%, Benin 9.1%,
  Netherlands 5.9%, Mali 5.8%, India 4.7% (2007)

Tokelau
  New Zealand (2006)

Tonga
  US 36.7%, Japan 21.6%, NZ 10.1%, Fiji 5.8%, Samoa 4.9% (2007)

Trinidad and Tobago
  US 57.5%, Jamaica 6.5%, Spain 3.9% (2007)

Tunisia
  France 31.3%, Italy 21%, Germany 8.5%, Spain 5.5%, Libya
  5.5% (2007)

Turkey
  Germany 11.2%, UK 8.1%, Italy 7%, France 5.6%, Russia 4.4%,
  Spain 4.3% (2007)

Turkmenistan
  Ukraine 51.3%, Iran 18.5%, Turkey 5% (2007)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  US, UK (2006)

Tuvalu
  Germany 60.5%, Italy 20.1%, Fiji 6.9% (2006)

Uganda
  Netherlands 10.2%, Belgium 9.8%, Germany 7.9%, France 7.2%,
  Rwanda 5.6% (2007)

Ukraine
  Russia 23.3%, Turkey 7.9%, Italy 5.8% (2007)

United Arab Emirates
  Japan 23.6%, South Korea 9.2%, Thailand 5%,
  India 4.8% (2007)

United Kingdom
  US 14.2%, Germany 11.1%, France 8.1%, Ireland 8%,
  Netherlands 6.8%, Belgium 5.3%, Spain 4.5%, Italy 4.1% (2007)

United States
  Canada 21.4%, Mexico 11.7%, China 5.6%, Japan 5.4%, UK
  4.3%, Germany 4.3% (2007)

Uruguay
  Brazil 15.5%, US 9.4%, Argentina 8.4%, Mexico 6.6%, China
  6.1%, Germany 4.8% (2007)

Uzbekistan
  Russia 22.4%, Poland 10.4%, Turkey 9.4%, Kazakhstan 6.1%,
  Hungary 6%, China 5.6%, Ukraine 4.8%, Bangladesh 4.3% (2007)

Vanuatu
  Thailand 58.3%, India 18.5%, Japan 11.3% (2007)

Venezuela
  US 42.7%, Netherlands Antilles 8%, China 3.1% (2007)

Vietnam
  US 20.8%, Japan 12.5%, Australia 7.3%, China 6.9%, Singapore
  4.5% (2007)

Virgin Islands
  US, Puerto Rico (2006)

Wallis and Futuna
  Italy 40%, Croatia 15%, US 14%, Denmark 13% (2006)

West Bank
  Israel, Jordan, Gaza Strip (2006)

Western Sahara
  Morocco claims and administers Western Sahara, so
  trade partners are included in overall Moroccan accounts (2006)

World
  US 13.7%, Germany 7.3%, China 6.2%, France 4.6%, UK 4.5%,
  Japan 4.1% (2007)

Yemen
  China 23.3%, India 20.4%, Thailand 19.1%, Japan 7.2%, UAE 5%,
  US 4.2% (2007)

Zambia
  Switzerland 41.8%, South Africa 12%, Thailand 5.9%,
  Democratic Republic of the Congo 5.3%, Egypt 5%, Saudi Arabia 4.7%,
  China 4.1% (2007)

Zimbabwe
  South Africa 33.8%, Democratic Republic of the Congo 8.3%,
  Japan 8.1%, Botswana 7.4%, Netherlands 5.2%, China 5.2%, Italy 4.1%,
  Zambia 4.1% (2007)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2051  Administrative divisions


Afghanistan
  34 provinces (velayat, singular - velayat); Badakhshan,
  Badghis, Baghlan, Balkh, Bamyan, Daykundi, Farah, Faryab, Ghazni,
  Ghor, Helmand, Herat, Jowzjan, Kabul, Kandahar, Kapisa, Khost,
  Kunar, Kunduz, Laghman, Logar, Nangarhar, Nimroz, Nuristan, Paktika,
  Paktiya, Panjshir, Parwan, Samangan, Sar-e Pul, Takhar, Uruzgan,
  Wardak, Zabul

Albania
  12 counties (qarqe, singular - qark); Berat, Diber, Durres,
  Elbasan, Fier, Gjirokaster, Korce, Kukes, Lezhe, Shkoder, Tirane,
  Vlore

Algeria
  48 provinces (wilayat, singular - wilaya); Adrar, Ain Defla,
  Ain Temouchent, Alger, Annaba, Batna, Bechar, Bejaia, Biskra, Blida,
  Bordj Bou Arreridj, Bouira, Boumerdes, Chlef, Constantine, Djelfa,
  El Bayadh, El Oued, El Tarf, Ghardaia, Guelma, Illizi, Jijel,
  Khenchela, Laghouat, Mascara, Medea, Mila, Mostaganem, M'Sila,
  Naama, Oran, Ouargla, Oum el Bouaghi, Relizane, Saida, Setif, Sidi
  Bel Abbes, Skikda, Souk Ahras, Tamanghasset, Tebessa, Tiaret,
  Tindouf, Tipaza, Tissemsilt, Tizi Ouzou, Tlemcen

American Samoa
  none (territory of the US); there are no first-order
  administrative divisions as defined by the US Government, but there
  are three districts and two islands* at the second order; Eastern,
  Manu'a, Rose Island*, Swains Island*, Western

Andorra
  7 parishes (parroquies, singular - parroquia); Andorra la
  Vella, Canillo, Encamp, Escaldes-Engordany, La Massana, Ordino, Sant
  Julia de Loria

Angola
  18 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia); Bengo,
  Benguela, Bie, Cabinda, Cuando Cubango, Cuanza Norte, Cuanza Sul,
  Cunene, Huambo, Huila, Luanda, Lunda Norte, Lunda Sul, Malanje,
  Moxico, Namibe, Uige, Zaire

Anguilla
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Antigua and Barbuda
  6 parishes and 2 dependencies*; Barbuda*,
  Redonda*, Saint George, Saint John, Saint Mary, Saint Paul, Saint
  Peter, Saint Philip

Argentina
  23 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia) and 1
  autonomous city* (distrito federal); Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires
  Capital Federal*, Catamarca, Chaco, Chubut, Cordoba, Corrientes,
  Entre Rios, Formosa, Jujuy, La Pampa, La Rioja, Mendoza, Misiones,
  Neuquen, Rio Negro, Salta, San Juan, San Luis, Santa Cruz, Santa Fe,
  Santiago del Estero, Tierra del Fuego - Antartida e Islas del
  Atlantico Sur, Tucuman
  note: the US does not recognize any claims to Antarctica

Armenia
  11 provinces (marzer, singular - marz); Aragatsotn, Ararat,
  Armavir, Geghark'unik', Kotayk', Lorri, Shirak, Syunik', Tavush,
  Vayots' Dzor, Yerevan

Aruba
  none (part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands)

Australia
  6 states and 2 territories*; Australian Capital
  Territory*, New South Wales, Northern Territory*, Queensland, South
  Australia, Tasmania, Victoria, Western Australia

Austria
  9 states (Bundeslaender, singular - Bundesland); Burgenland,
  Kaernten (Carinthia), Niederoesterreich (Lower Austria),
  Oberoesterreich (Upper Austria), Salzburg, Steiermark (Styria),
  Tirol (Tyrol), Vorarlberg, Wien (Vienna)

Azerbaijan
  59 rayons (rayonlar; rayon - singular), 11 cities
  (saharlar; sahar - singular), 1 autonomous republic (muxtar
  respublika)
  rayons: Abseron Rayonu, Agcabadi Rayonu, Agdam Rayonu, Agdas Rayonu,
  Agstafa Rayonu, Agsu Rayonu, Astara Rayonu, Balakan Rayonu, Barda
  Rayonu, Beylaqan Rayonu, Bilasuvar Rayonu, Cabrayil Rayonu,
  Calilabad Rayonu, Daskasan Rayonu, Davaci Rayonu, Fuzuli Rayonu,
  Gadabay Rayonu, Goranboy Rayonu, Goycay Rayonu, Haciqabul Rayonu,
  Imisli Rayonu, Ismayilli Rayonu, Kalbacar Rayonu, Kurdamir Rayonu,
  Lacin Rayonu, Lankaran Rayonu, Lerik Rayonu, Masalli Rayonu,
  Neftcala Rayonu, Oguz Rayonu, Qabala Rayonu, Qax Rayonu, Qazax
  Rayonu, Qobustan Rayonu, Quba Rayonu, Qubadli Rayonu, Qusar Rayonu,
  Saatli Rayonu, Sabirabad Rayonu, Saki Rayonu, Salyan Rayonu, Samaxi
  Rayonu, Samkir Rayonu, Samux Rayonu, Siyazan Rayonu, Susa Rayonu,
  Tartar Rayonu, Tovuz Rayonu, Ucar Rayonu, Xacmaz Rayonu, Xanlar
  Rayonu, Xizi Rayonu, Xocali Rayonu, Xocavand Rayonu, Yardimli
  Rayonu, Yevlax Rayonu, Zangilan Rayonu, Zaqatala Rayonu, Zardab
  Rayonu
  cities: Ali Bayramli Sahari, Baki Sahari, Ganca Sahari, Lankaran
  Sahari, Mingacevir Sahari, Naftalan Sahari, Saki Sahari, Sumqayit
  Sahari, Susa Sahari, Xankandi Sahari, Yevlax Sahari
  autonomous republic: Naxcivan Muxtar Respublikasi

Bahamas, The
  21 districts; Acklins and Crooked Islands, Bimini, Cat
  Island, Exuma, Freeport, Fresh Creek, Governor's Harbour, Green
  Turtle Cay, Harbour Island, High Rock, Inagua, Kemps Bay, Long
  Island, Marsh Harbour, Mayaguana, New Providence, Nichollstown and
  Berry Islands, Ragged Island, Rock Sound, Sandy Point, San Salvador
  and Rum Cay

Bahrain
  5 governorates; Asamah, Janubiyah, Muharraq, Shamaliyah,
  Wasat
  note: each governorate administered by an appointed governor

Bangladesh
  6 divisions; Barisal, Chittagong, Dhaka, Khulna,
  Rajshahi, Sylhet

Barbados
  11 parishes and 1 city*; Bridgetown*, Christ Church, Saint
  Andrew, Saint George, Saint James, Saint John, Saint Joseph, Saint
  Lucy, Saint Michael, Saint Peter, Saint Philip, Saint Thomas

Belarus
  6 provinces (voblastsi, singular - voblasts') and 1
  municipality* (horad); Brest, Homyel', Horad Minsk*, Hrodna,
  Mahilyow, Minsk, Vitsyebsk
  note: administrative divisions have the same names as their
  administrative centers

Belgium
  10 provinces (French: provinces, singular - province; Dutch:
  provincies, singular - provincie) and 3 regions* (French: regions;
  Dutch: gewesten); Brussels* (Bruxelles) capital region; Flanders*
  region (five provinces): Antwerpen (Antwerp), Limburg,
  Oost-Vlaanderen (East Flanders), Vlaams-Brabant (Flemish Brabant),
  West-Vlaanderen (West Flanders); Wallonia* region (five provinces):
  Brabant Wallon (Walloon Brabant), Hainaut, Liege, Luxembourg, Namur
  note: as a result of the 1993 constitutional revision that furthered
  devolution into a federal state, there are now three levels of
  government (federal, regional, and linguistic community) with a
  complex division of responsibilities

Belize
  6 districts; Belize, Cayo, Corozal, Orange Walk, Stann Creek,
  Toledo

Benin
  12 departments; Alibori, Atakora, Atlantique, Borgou,
  Collines, Kouffo, Donga, Littoral, Mono, Oueme, Plateau, Zou

Bermuda
  9 parishes and 2 municipalities*; Devonshire, Hamilton,
  Hamilton*, Paget, Pembroke, Saint George*, Saint George's, Sandys,
  Smith's, Southampton, Warwick

Bhutan
  20 districts (dzongkhag, singular and plural); Bumthang,
  Chhukha, Chirang, Daga, Gasa, Geylegphug, Ha, Lhuntshi, Mongar,
  Paro, Pemagatsel, Punakha, Samchi, Samdrup Jongkhar, Shemgang,
  Tashigang, Tashi Yangtse, Thimphu, Tongsa, Wangdi Phodrang

Bolivia
  9 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento);
  Beni, Chuquisaca, Cochabamba, La Paz, Oruro, Pando, Potosi, Santa
  Cruz, Tarija

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  2 first-order administrative divisions and 1
  internationally supervised district* - Brcko district (Brcko
  Distrikt)*, the Bosniak/Croat Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
  (Federacija Bosna i Hercegovina) and the Bosnian Serb-led Republika
  Srpska; note - Brcko district is in northeastern Bosnia and is an
  administrative unit under the sovereignty of Bosnia and Herzegovina;
  the district remains under international supervision

Botswana
  9 districts and 5 town councils*; Central, Francistown*,
  Gaborone*, Ghanzi, Jwaneng*, Kgalagadi, Kgatleng, Kweneng, Lobatse*,
  Northeast, Northwest, Selebi-Pikwe*, Southeast, Southern

Brazil
  26 states (estados, singular - estado) and 1 federal
  district* (distrito federal); Acre, Alagoas, Amapa, Amazonas, Bahia,
  Ceara, Distrito Federal*, Espirito Santo, Goias, Maranhao, Mato
  Grosso, Mato Grosso do Sul, Minas Gerais, Para, Paraiba, Parana,
  Pernambuco, Piaui, Rio de Janeiro, Rio Grande do Norte, Rio Grande
  do Sul, Rondonia, Roraima, Santa Catarina, Sao Paulo, Sergipe,
  Tocantins

British Virgin Islands
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Brunei
  4 districts (daerah-daerah, singular - daerah); Belait,
  Brunei and Muara, Temburong, Tutong

Bulgaria
  28 provinces (oblasti, singular - oblast); Blagoevgrad,
  Burgas, Dobrich, Gabrovo, Khaskovo, Kurdzhali, Kyustendil, Lovech,
  Montana, Pazardzhik, Pernik, Pleven, Plovdiv, Razgrad, Ruse, Shumen,
  Silistra, Sliven, Smolyan, Sofiya, Sofiya-Grad, Stara Zagora,
  Turgovishte, Varna, Veliko Turnovo, Vidin, Vratsa, Yambol

Burkina Faso
  45 provinces; Bale, Bam, Banwa, Bazega, Bougouriba,
  Boulgou, Boulkiemde, Comoe, Ganzourgou, Gnagna, Gourma, Houet, Ioba,
  Kadiogo, Kenedougou, Komondjari, Kompienga, Kossi, Koulpelogo,
  Kouritenga, Kourweogo, Leraba, Loroum, Mouhoun, Nahouri, Namentenga,
  Nayala, Noumbiel, Oubritenga, Oudalan, Passore, Poni, Sanguie,
  Sanmatenga, Seno, Sissili, Soum, Sourou, Tapoa, Tuy, Yagha, Yatenga,
  Ziro, Zondoma, Zoundweogo

Burma
  7 divisions (taing-myar, singular - taing) and 7 states (pyi
  ne-myar, singular - pyi ne)
  divisions: Ayeyarwady, Bago, Magway, Mandalay, Sagaing, Tanintharyi,
  Yangon
  states: Chin, Kachin, Kayah, Kayin, Mon, Rakhine, Shan

Burundi
  17 provinces; Bubanza, Bujumbura Mairie, Bujumbura Rurale,
  Bururi, Cankuzo, Cibitoke, Gitega, Karuzi, Kayanza, Kirundo,
  Makamba, Muramvya, Muyinga, Mwaro, Ngozi, Rutana, Ruyigi

Cambodia
  20 provinces (khaitt, singular and plural) and 4
  municipalities* (krong, singular and plural)
  provinces: Banteay Mean Cheay, Batdambang, Kampong Cham, Kampong
  Chhnang, Kampong Spoe, Kampong Thum, Kampot, Kandal, Kaoh Kong,
  Krachen, Mondol Kiri, Otdar Mean Cheay, Pouthisat, Preah Vihear,
  Prey Veng, Rotanah Kiri, Siem Reab, Stoeng Treng, Svay Rieng, Takev
  municipalities: Keb, Pailin, Phnum Penh (Phnom Penh), Preah Seihanu
  (Sihanoukville)

Cameroon
  10 provinces; Adamaoua, Centre, Est, Extreme-Nord,
  Littoral, Nord, Nord-Ouest, Ouest, Sud, Sud-Ouest

Canada
  10 provinces and 3 territories*; Alberta, British Columbia,
  Manitoba, New Brunswick, Newfoundland and Labrador, Northwest
  Territories*, Nova Scotia, Nunavut*, Ontario, Prince Edward Island,
  Quebec, Saskatchewan, Yukon Territory*

Cape Verde
  17 municipalities (concelhos, singular - concelho); Boa
  Vista, Brava, Maio, Mosteiros, Paul, Praia, Porto Novo, Ribeira
  Grande, Sal, Santa Catarina, Santa Cruz, Sao Domingos, Sao Filipe,
  Sao Miguel, Sao Nicolau, Sao Vicente, Tarrafal

Cayman Islands
  8 districts; Creek, Eastern, Midland, South Town,
  Spot Bay, Stake Bay, West End, Western

Central African Republic
  14 prefectures (prefectures, singular -
  prefecture), 2 economic prefectures* (prefectures economiques,
  singular - prefecture economique), and 1 commune**;
  Bamingui-Bangoran, Bangui**, Basse-Kotto, Haute-Kotto, Haut-Mbomou,
  Kemo, Lobaye, Mambere-Kadei, Mbomou, Nana-Grebizi*, Nana-Mambere,
  Ombella-Mpoko, Ouaka, Ouham, Ouham-Pende, Sangha-Mbaere*, Vakaga

Chad
  18 regions (regions, singular - region); Batha,
  Borkou-Ennedi-Tibesti, Chari-Baguirmi, Guera, Hadjer-Lamis, Kanem,
  Lac, Logone Occidental, Logone Oriental, Mandoul, Mayo-Kebbi Est,
  Mayo-Kebbi Ouest, Moyen-Chari, Ouaddai, Salamat, Tandjile, Ville de
  N'Djamena, Wadi Fira

Chile
  15 regions (regiones, singular - region); Aisen del General
  Carlos Ibanez del Campo, Antofagasta, Araucania, Arica y Parinacota,
  Atacama, Biobio, Coquimbo, Libertador General Bernardo O'Higgins,
  Los Lagos, Los Rios, Magallanes y de la Antartica Chilena, Maule,
  Region Metropolitana (Santiago), Tarapaca, Valparaiso
  note: the US does not recognize claims to Antarctica

China
  23 provinces (sheng, singular and plural), 5 autonomous
  regions (zizhiqu, singular and plural), and 4 municipalities (shi,
  singular and plural)
  provinces: Anhui, Fujian, Gansu, Guangdong, Guizhou, Hainan, Hebei,
  Heilongjiang, Henan, Hubei, Hunan, Jiangsu, Jiangxi, Jilin,
  Liaoning, Qinghai, Shaanxi, Shandong, Shanxi, Sichuan, Yunnan,
  Zhejiang; (see note on Taiwan)
  autonomous regions: Guangxi, Nei Mongol, Ningxia, Xinjiang Uygur,
  Xizang (Tibet)
  municipalities: Beijing, Chongqing, Shanghai, Tianjin
  note: China considers Taiwan its 23rd province; see separate entries
  for the special administrative regions of Hong Kong and Macau

Christmas Island
  none (territory of Australia)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  none (territory of Australia)

Colombia
  32 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento) and
  1 capital district* (distrito capital); Amazonas, Antioquia, Arauca,
  Atlantico, Bogota*, Bolivar, Boyaca, Caldas, Caqueta, Casanare,
  Cauca, Cesar, Choco, Cordoba, Cundinamarca, Guainia, Guaviare,
  Huila, La Guajira, Magdalena, Meta, Narino, Norte de Santander,
  Putumayo, Quindio, Risaralda, San Andres y Providencia, Santander,
  Sucre, Tolima, Valle del Cauca, Vaupes, Vichada

Comoros
  3 islands and 4 municipalities*; Grande Comore, Anjouan,
  Domoni*, Fomboni*, Moheli, Moroni*, Mutsamudu*

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  10 provinces (provinces, singular
  - province) and 1 city* (ville); Bandundu, Bas-Congo, Equateur,
  Kasai-Occidental, Kasai-Oriental, Katanga, Kinshasa*, Maniema,
  Nord-Kivu, Orientale, Sud-Kivu
  note: according to the Constitution adopted in December 2005, the
  current administrative divisions will be subdivided into 26 new
  provinces by 2009

Congo, Republic of the
  10 regions (regions, singular - region) and 1
  commune*; Bouenza, Brazzaville*, Cuvette, Cuvette-Ouest, Kouilou,
  Lekoumou, Likouala, Niari, Plateaux, Pool, Sangha

Cook Islands
  none

Costa Rica
  7 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia); Alajuela,
  Cartago, Guanacaste, Heredia, Limon, Puntarenas, San Jose

Cote d'Ivoire
  19 regions; Agneby, Bafing, Bas-Sassandra, Denguele,
  Dix-Huit Montagnes, Fromager, Haut-Sassandra, Lacs, Lagunes,
  Marahoue, Moyen-Cavally, Moyen-Comoe, N'zi-Comoe, Savanes,
  Sud-Bandama, Sud-Comoe, Vallee du Bandama, Worodougou, Zanzan

Croatia
  20 counties (zupanije, zupanija - singular) and 1 city*
  (grad - singular); Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska, Brodsko-Posavska,
  Dubrovacko-Neretvanska (Dubrovnik-Neretva), Istarska (Istria),
  Karlovacka, Koprivnicko-Krizevacka, Krapinsko-Zagorska,
  Licko-Senjska (Lika-Senj), Medimurska, Osjecko-Baranjska,
  Pozesko-Slavonska (Pozega-Slavonia), Primorsko-Goranska,
  Sibensko-Kninska, Sisacko-Moslavacka, Splitsko-Dalmatinska
  (Split-Dalmatia), Varazdinska, Viroviticko-Podravska,
  Vukovarsko-Srijemska, Zadarska, Zagreb*, Zagrebacka

Cuba
  14 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia) and 1 special
  municipality* (municipio especial); Camaguey, Ciego de Avila,
  Cienfuegos, Ciudad de La Habana, Granma, Guantanamo, Holguin, Isla
  de la Juventud*, La Habana, Las Tunas, Matanzas, Pinar del Rio,
  Sancti Spiritus, Santiago de Cuba, Villa Clara

Cyprus
  6 districts; Famagusta, Kyrenia, Larnaca, Limassol, Nicosia,
  Paphos; note - Turkish Cypriot area's administrative divisions
  include Kyrenia, all but a small part of Famagusta, and small parts
  of Lefkosia (Nicosia)

Czech Republic
  13 regions (kraje, singular - kraj) and 1 capital
  city* (hlavni mesto); Jihocesky (South Bohemia), Jihomoravsky (South
  Moravia), Karlovarsky, Kralovehradecky, Liberecky, Moravskoslezsky
  (Moravia-Silesia), Olomoucky, Pardubicky, Plzensky (Pilsen), Praha
  (Prague)*, Stredocesky (Central Bohemia), Ustecky, Vysocina, Zlinsky

Denmark
  metropolitan Denmark - 5 regions (regioner, singular -
  region); Hovedstaden, Midtjylland, Nordjylland, Sjaelland, Syddanmark
  note: an extensive local government reform merged 271 municipalities
  into 98 and 13 counties into five regions, effective 1 January 2007

Djibouti
  6 districts (cercles, singular - cercle); Ali Sabieh, Arta,
  Dikhil, Djibouti, Obock, Tadjourah

Dominica
  10 parishes; Saint Andrew, Saint David, Saint George, Saint
  John, Saint Joseph, Saint Luke, Saint Mark, Saint Patrick, Saint
  Paul, Saint Peter

Dominican Republic
  31 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia)
  and 1 district* (distrito); Azua, Bahoruco, Barahona, Dajabon,
  Distrito Nacional*, Duarte, El Seibo, Elias Pina, Espaillat, Hato
  Mayor, Independencia, La Altagracia, La Romana, La Vega, Maria
  Trinidad Sanchez, Monsenor Nouel, Monte Cristi, Monte Plata,
  Pedernales, Peravia, Puerto Plata, Salcedo, Samana, San Cristobal,
  San Jose de Ocoa, San Juan, San Pedro de Macoris, Sanchez Ramirez,
  Santiago, Santiago Rodriguez, Santo Domingo, Valverde

Ecuador
  24 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia); Azuay,
  Bolivar, Canar, Carchi, Chimborazo, Cotopaxi, El Oro, Esmeraldas,
  Galapagos, Guayas, Imbabura, Loja, Los Rios, Manabi,
  Morona-Santiago, Napo, Orellana, Pastaza, Pichincha, Santa Elena,
  Santo Domingo de los Tsachilas, Sucumbios, Tungurahua,
  Zamora-Chinchipe

Egypt
  26 governorates (muhafazat, singular - muhafazah); Ad
  Daqahliyah, Al Bahr al Ahmar (Red Sea), Al Buhayrah (El Beheira), Al
  Fayyum (El Faiyum), Al Gharbiyah, Al Iskandariyah (Alexandria), Al
  Isma'iliyah (Ismailia), Al Jizah (Giza), Al Minufiyah (El Monofia),
  Al Minya, Al Qahirah (Cairo), Al Qalyubiyah, Al Wadi al Jadid (New
  Valley), As Suways (Suez), Ash Sharqiyah, Aswan, Asyut, Bani Suwayf
  (Beni Suef), Bur Sa'id (Port Said), Dumyat (Damietta), Janub Sina'
  (South Sinai), Kafr ash Shaykh, Matruh (Western Desert), Qina
  (Qena), Shamal Sina' (North Sinai), Suhaj (Sohag)

El Salvador
  14 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento);
  Ahuachapan, Cabanas, Chalatenango, Cuscatlan, La Libertad, La Paz,
  La Union, Morazan, San Miguel, San Salvador, San Vicente, Santa Ana,
  Sonsonate, Usulutan

Equatorial Guinea
  7 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia);
  Annobon, Bioko Norte, Bioko Sur, Centro Sur, Kie-Ntem, Litoral,
  Wele-Nzas

Eritrea
  6 regions (zobatat, singular - zoba); Anseba, Debub
  (Southern), Debubawi K'eyih Bahri (Southern Red Sea), Gash Barka,
  Ma'akel (Central), Semenawi Keyih Bahri (Northern Red Sea)

Estonia
  15 counties (maakonnad, singular - maakond): Harjumaa
  (Tallinn), Hiiumaa (Kardla), Ida-Virumaa (Johvi), Jarvamaa (Paide),
  Jogevamaa (Jogeva), Laanemaa (Haapsalu), Laane-Virumaa (Rakvere),
  Parnumaa (Parnu), Polvamaa (Polva), Raplamaa (Rapla), Saaremaa
  (Kuressaare), Tartumaa (Tartu), Valgamaa (Valga), Viljandimaa
  (Viljandi), Vorumaa (Voru)
  note: counties have the administrative center name following in
  parentheses

Ethiopia
  9 ethnically based states (kililoch, singular - kilil) and
  2 self-governing administrations* (astedaderoch, singular -
  astedader); Adis Abeba* (Addis Ababa), Afar, Amara (Amhara),
  Binshangul Gumuz, Dire Dawa*, Gambela Hizboch (Gambela Peoples),
  Hareri Hizb (Harari People), Oromiya (Oromia), Sumale (Somali),
  Tigray, Ye Debub Biheroch Bihereseboch na Hizboch (Southern Nations,
  Nationalities and Peoples)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  none (overseas territory of the
  UK; also claimed by Argentina)

Faroe Islands
  none (part of the Kingdom of Denmark; self-governing
  overseas administrative division of Denmark); there are no
  first-order administrative divisions as defined by the US
  Government, but there are 34 municipalities

Fiji
  4 divisions and 1 dependency*; Central, Eastern, Northern,
  Rotuma*, Western

Finland
  6 provinces (laanit, singular - laani); Aland, Etela-Suomen
  Laani (Southern Finland), Ita-Suomen Laani (Eastern Finland),
  Lansi-Suomen Laani (Western Finland), Lappi (Lapland), Oulun Laani

France
  26 regions (regions, singular - region); Alsace, Aquitaine,
  Auvergne, Basse-Normandie (Lower Normandy), Bourgogne (Burgundy),
  Bretagne (Brittany), Centre, Champagne-Ardenne, Corse (Corsica),
  Franche-Comte, Guadeloupe, Guyane (French Guiana), Haute-Normandie
  (Upper Normandy), Ile-de-France, Languedoc-Roussillon, Limousin,
  Lorraine, Martinique, Midi-Pyrenees, Nord-Pas-de-Calais, Pays de la
  Loire, Picardie, Poitou-Charentes, Provence-Alpes-Cote d'Azur,
  Reunion, Rhone-Alpes
  note: France is divided into 22 metropolitan regions (including the
  "territorial collectivity" of Corse or Corsica) and 4 overseas
  regions (including French Guiana, Guadeloupe, Martinique, and
  Reunion) and is subdivided into 96 metropolitan departments and 4
  overseas departments (which are the same as the overseas regions)

French Polynesia
  none (overseas lands of France); there are no
  first-order administrative divisions as defined by the US
  Government, but there are five archipelagic divisions named Archipel
  des Marquises, Archipel des Tuamotu, Archipel des Tubuai, Iles du
  Vent, Iles Sous-le-Vent

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  none (overseas territory of
  France); there are no first-order administrative divisions as
  defined by the US Government, but there are five administrative
  districts named Iles Crozet, Iles Eparses, Iles Kerguelen, Ile
  Saint-Paul et Ile Amsterdam; the fifth district is the "Adelie Land"
  claim in Antarctica that is not recognized by the US

Gabon
  9 provinces; Estuaire, Haut-Ogooue, Moyen-Ogooue, Ngounie,
  Nyanga, Ogooue-Ivindo, Ogooue-Lolo, Ogooue-Maritime, Woleu-Ntem

Gambia, The
  5 divisions and 1 city*; Banjul*, Central River, Lower
  River, North Bank, Upper River, Western

Georgia
  9 regions (mkharebi, singular - mkhare), 1 city (k'alak'i),
  and 2 autonomous republics (avtomnoy respubliki, singular - avtom
  respublika)
  regions: Guria, Imereti, Kakheti, Kvemo Kartli, Mtskheta-Mtianeti,
  Racha-Lechkhumi and Kvemo Svaneti, Samegrelo and Zemo Svaneti,
  Samtskhe-Javakheti, Shida Kartli
  city: Tbilisi
  autonomous republics: Abkhazia or Ap'khazet'is Avtonomiuri
  Respublika (Sokhumi), Ajaria or Acharis Avtonomiuri Respublika
  (Bat'umi)
  note: the administrative centers of the two autonomous republics are
  shown in parentheses

Germany
  16 states (Laender, singular - Land); Baden-Wuerttemberg,
  Bayern (Bavaria), Berlin, Brandenburg, Bremen, Hamburg, Hessen,
  Mecklenburg-Vorpommern (Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania),
  Niedersachsen (Lower Saxony), Nordrhein-Westfalen (North
  Rhine-Westphalia), Rheinland-Pfalz (Rhineland-Palatinate), Saarland,
  Sachsen (Saxony), Sachsen-Anhalt (Saxony-Anhalt),
  Schleswig-Holstein, Thueringen (Thuringia); note - Bayern, Sachsen,
  and Thueringen refer to themselves as free states (Freistaaten,
  singular - Freistaat)

Ghana
  10 regions; Ashanti, Brong-Ahafo, Central, Eastern, Greater
  Accra, Northern, Upper East, Upper West, Volta, Western

Gibraltar
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Greece
  51 prefectures (nomoi, singular - nomos) and 1 autonomous
  region*; Achaia, Agion Oros* (Mt. Athos), Aitolia kai Akarnania,
  Argolis, Arkadia, Arta, Attiki, Chalkidiki, Chanion, Chios,
  Dodekanisos, Drama, Evros, Evrytania, Evvoia, Florina, Fokidos,
  Fthiotis, Grevena, Ileia, Imathia, Ioannina, Irakleion, Karditsa,
  Kastoria, Kavala, Kefallinia, Kerkyra, Kilkis, Korinthia, Kozani,
  Kyklades, Lakonia, Larisa, Lasithi, Lefkas, Lesvos, Magnisia,
  Messinia, Pella, Pieria, Preveza, Rethynnis, Rodopi, Samos, Serrai,
  Thesprotia, Thessaloniki, Trikala, Voiotia, Xanthi, Zakynthos

Greenland
  3 districts (landsdele); Avannaa (Nordgronland), Tunu
  (Ostgronland), Kitaa (Vestgronland)
  note: there are 18 municipalities in Greenland

Grenada
  6 parishes and 1 dependency*; Carriacou and Petite
  Martinique*, Saint Andrew, Saint David, Saint George, Saint John,
  Saint Mark, Saint Patrick

Guam
  none (territory of the US)

Guatemala
  22 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento);
  Alta Verapaz, Baja Verapaz, Chimaltenango, Chiquimula, El Progreso,
  Escuintla, Guatemala, Huehuetenango, Izabal, Jalapa, Jutiapa, Peten,
  Quetzaltenango, Quiche, Retalhuleu, Sacatepequez, San Marcos, Santa
  Rosa, Solola, Suchitepequez, Totonicapan, Zacapa

Guernsey
  none (British crown dependency); there are no first-order
  administrative divisions as defined by the US Government, but there
  are 10 parishes including Castel, Forest, Saint Andrew, Saint
  Martin, Saint Peter Port, Saint Pierre du Bois, Saint Sampson, Saint
  Saviour, Torteval, Vale

Guinea
  33 prefectures and 1 special zone (zone special)*; Beyla,
  Boffa, Boke, Conakry*, Coyah, Dabola, Dalaba, Dinguiraye, Dubreka,
  Faranah, Forecariah, Fria, Gaoual, Gueckedou, Kankan, Kerouane,
  Kindia, Kissidougou, Koubia, Koundara, Kouroussa, Labe, Lelouma,
  Lola, Macenta, Mali, Mamou, Mandiana, Nzerekore, Pita, Siguiri,
  Telimele, Tougue, Yomou

Guinea-Bissau
  9 regions (regioes, singular - regiao); Bafata,
  Biombo, Bissau, Bolama, Cacheu, Gabu, Oio, Quinara, Tombali; note -
  Bolama may have been renamed Bolama/Bijagos

Guyana
  10 regions; Barima-Waini, Cuyuni-Mazaruni, Demerara-Mahaica,
  East Berbice-Corentyne, Essequibo Islands-West Demerara,
  Mahaica-Berbice, Pomeroon-Supenaam, Potaro-Siparuni, Upper
  Demerara-Berbice, Upper Takutu-Upper Essequibo

Haiti
  10 departments (departements, singular - departement);
  Artibonite, Centre, Grand 'Anse, Nippes, Nord, Nord-Est, Nord-Ouest,
  Ouest, Sud, Sud-Est

Holy See (Vatican City)
  none

Honduras
  18 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento);
  Atlantida, Choluteca, Colon, Comayagua, Copan, Cortes, El Paraiso,
  Francisco Morazan, Gracias a Dios, Intibuca, Islas de la Bahia, La
  Paz, Lempira, Ocotepeque, Olancho, Santa Barbara, Valle, Yoro

Hong Kong
  none (special administrative region of China)

Hungary
  19 counties (megyek, singular - megye), 23 urban counties
  (singular - megyei varos), and 1 capital city (fovaros)
  counties: Bacs-Kiskun, Baranya, Bekes, Borsod-Abauj-Zemplen,
  Csongrad, Fejer, Gyor-Moson-Sopron, Hajdu-Bihar, Heves,
  Jasz-Nagykun-Szolnok, Komarom-Esztergom, Nograd, Pest, Somogy,
  Szabolcs-Szatmar-Bereg, Tolna, Vas, Veszprem, Zala
  urban counties: Bekescsaba, Debrecen, Dunaujvaros, Eger, Erd, Gyor,
  Hodmezovasarhely, Kaposvar, Kecskemet, Miskolc, Nagykanizsa,
  Nyiregyhaza, Pecs, Salgotarjan, Sopron, Szeged, Szekesfehervar,
  Szekszard, Szolnok, Szombathely, Tatabanya, Veszprem, Zalaegerszeg
  capital city: Budapest

Iceland
  8 regions; Austurland, Hofudhborgarsvaedhi, Nordhurland
  Eystra, Nordhurland Vestra, Sudhurland, Sudhurnes, Vestfirdhir,
  Vesturland

India
  28 states and 7 union territories*; Andaman and Nicobar
  Islands*, Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar,
  Chandigarh*, Chhattisgarh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli*, Daman and Diu*,
  Delhi*, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir,
  Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Lakshadweep*, Madhya Pradesh,
  Maharashtra, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Orissa,
  Puducherry*, Punjab, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Uttar
  Pradesh, Uttarakhand, West Bengal

Indonesia
  30 provinces (propinsi-propinsi, singular - propinsi), 2
  special regions* (daerah-daerah istimewa, singular - daerah
  istimewa), and 1 special capital city district** (daerah khusus
  ibukota); Aceh*, Bali, Banten, Bengkulu, Gorontalo, Jakarta Raya**,
  Jambi, Jawa Barat, Jawa Tengah, Jawa Timur, Kalimantan Barat,
  Kalimantan Selatan, Kalimantan Tengah, Kalimantan Timur, Kepulauan
  Bangka Belitung, Kepulauan Riau, Lampung, Maluku, Maluku Utara, Nusa
  Tenggara Barat, Nusa Tenggara Timur, Papua, Papua Barat (Irian Jaya
  Barat), Riau, Sulawesi Barat, Sulawesi Selatan, Sulawesi Tengah,
  Sulawesi Tenggara, Sulawesi Utara, Sumatera Barat, Sumatera Selatan,
  Sumatera Utara, Yogyakarta*
  note: following the implementation of decentralization beginning on
  1 January 2001, the 465 regencies and municipalities have become the
  key administrative units responsible for providing most government
  services

Iran
  30 provinces (ostanha, singular - ostan); Ardabil, Azarbayjan-e
  Gharbi, Azarbayjan-e Sharqi, Bushehr, Chahar Mahall va Bakhtiari,
  Esfahan, Fars, Gilan, Golestan, Hamadan, Hormozgan, Ilam, Kerman,
  Kermanshah, Khorasan-e Jonubi, Khorasan-e Razavi, Khorasan-e
  Shomali, Khuzestan, Kohgiluyeh va Buyer Ahmad, Kordestan, Lorestan,
  Markazi, Mazandaran, Qazvin, Qom, Semnan, Sistan va Baluchestan,
  Tehran, Yazd, Zanjan

Iraq
  18 governorates (muhafazat, singular - muhafazah) and 1
  region*; Al Anbar, Al Basrah, Al Muthanna, Al Qadisiyah, An Najaf,
  Arbil, As Sulaymaniyah, At Ta'mim, Babil, Baghdad, Dahuk, Dhi Qar,
  Diyala, Karbala', Kurdistan Regional Government*, Maysan, Ninawa,
  Salah ad Din, Wasit

Ireland
  26 counties; Carlow, Cavan, Clare, Cork, Donegal, Dublin,
  Galway, Kerry, Kildare, Kilkenny, Laois, Leitrim, Limerick,
  Longford, Louth, Mayo, Meath, Monaghan, Offaly, Roscommon, Sligo,
  Tipperary, Waterford, Westmeath, Wexford, Wicklow

Isle of Man
  none; there are no first-order administrative divisions
  as defined by the US Government, but there are 24 local authorities
  each with its own elections

Israel
  6 districts (mehozot, singular - mehoz); Central, Haifa,
  Jerusalem, Northern, Southern, Tel Aviv

Italy
  15 regions (regioni, singular - regione) and 5 autonomous
  regions* (regioni autonome, singular - regione autonoma); Abruzzo,
  Basilicata, Calabria, Campania, Emilia-Romagna, Friuli-Venezia
  Giulia*, Lazio (Latium), Liguria, Lombardia, Marche, Molise,
  Piemonte (Piedmont), Puglia (Apulia), Sardegna* (Sardinia),
  Sicilia*, Toscana (Tuscany), Trentino-Alto Adige* (Trentino-South
  Tyrol), Umbria, Valle d'Aosta* (Aosta Valley), Veneto (Venetia)

Jamaica
  14 parishes; Clarendon, Hanover, Kingston, Manchester,
  Portland, Saint Andrew, Saint Ann, Saint Catherine, Saint Elizabeth,
  Saint James, Saint Mary, Saint Thomas, Trelawny, Westmoreland
  note: for local government purposes, Kingston and Saint Andrew were
  amalgamated in 1923 into the present single corporate body known as
  the Kingston and Saint Andrew Corporation

Japan
  47 prefectures; Aichi, Akita, Aomori, Chiba, Ehime, Fukui,
  Fukuoka, Fukushima, Gifu, Gunma, Hiroshima, Hokkaido, Hyogo,
  Ibaraki, Ishikawa, Iwate, Kagawa, Kagoshima, Kanagawa, Kochi,
  Kumamoto, Kyoto, Mie, Miyagi, Miyazaki, Nagano, Nagasaki, Nara,
  Niigata, Oita, Okayama, Okinawa, Osaka, Saga, Saitama, Shiga,
  Shimane, Shizuoka, Tochigi, Tokushima, Tokyo, Tottori, Toyama,
  Wakayama, Yamagata, Yamaguchi, Yamanashi

Jersey
  none (British crown dependency); there are no first-order
  administrative divisions as defined by the US Government, but there
  are 12 parishes including Grouville, Saint Brelade, Saint Clement,
  Saint Helier, Saint John, Saint Lawrence, Saint Martin, Saint Mary,
  Saint Quen, Saint Peter, Saint Saviour, and Trinity

Jordan
  12 governorates (muhafazat, singular - muhafazah); Ajlun, Al
  'Aqabah, Al Balqa', Al Karak, Al Mafraq, 'Amman, At Tafilah, Az
  Zarqa', Irbid, Jarash, Ma'an, Madaba

Kazakhstan
  14 provinces (oblystar, singular - oblys) and 3 cities*
  (qalalar, singular - qala); Almaty Oblysy, Almaty Qalasy*, Aqmola
  Oblysy (Astana), Aqtobe Oblysy, Astana Qalasy*, Atyrau Oblysy, Batys
  Qazaqstan Oblysy (Oral), Bayqongyr Qalasy*, Mangghystau Oblysy
  (Aqtau), Ongtustik Qazaqstan Oblysy (Shymkent), Pavlodar Oblysy,
  Qaraghandy Oblysy, Qostanay Oblysy, Qyzylorda Oblysy, Shyghys
  Qazaqstan Oblysy (Oskemen), Soltustik Qazaqstan Oblysy
  (Petropavlovsk), Zhambyl Oblysy (Taraz)
  note: administrative divisions have the same names as their
  administrative centers (exceptions have the administrative center
  name following in parentheses); in 1995, the Governments of
  Kazakhstan and Russia entered into an agreement whereby Russia would
  lease for a period of 20 years an area of 6,000 sq km enclosing the
  Baykonur space launch facilities and the city of Bayqongyr
  (Baykonur, formerly Leninsk); in 2004, a new agreement extended the
  lease to 2050

Kenya
  7 provinces and 1 area*; Central, Coast, Eastern, Nairobi
  Area*, North Eastern, Nyanza, Rift Valley, Western

Kiribati
  3 units; Gilbert Islands, Line Islands, Phoenix Islands;
  note - in addition, there are 6 districts (Banaba, Central Gilberts,
  Line Islands, Northern Gilberts, Southern Gilberts, Tarawa) and 21
  island councils - one for each of the inhabited islands (Abaiang,
  Abemama, Aranuka, Arorae, Banaba, Beru, Butaritari, Kanton,
  Kiritimati, Kuria, Maiana, Makin, Marakei, Nikunau, Nonouti, Onotoa,
  Tabiteuea, Tabuaeran, Tamana, Tarawa, Teraina)

Korea, North
  9 provinces (do, singular and plural) and 4
  municipalities (si, singular and plural)
  provinces: Chagang-do (Chagang), Hamgyong-bukto (North Hamgyong),
  Hamgyong-namdo (South Hamgyong), Hwanghae-bukto (North Hwanghae),
  Hwanghae-namdo (South Hwanghae), Kangwon-do (Kangwon),
  P'yongan-bukto (North P'yongan), P'yongan-namdo (South P'yongan),
  Yanggang-do (Yanggang)
  municipalities: Kaesong-si (Kaesong), Najin Sonbong-si
  (Najin-Sonbong), Namp'o-si (Namp'o), P'yongyang-si (Pyongyang)

Korea, South
  9 provinces (do, singular and plural) and 7
  metropolitan cities (gwangyoksi, singular and plural)
  provinces: Cheju-do, Cholla-bukto (North Cholla), Cholla-namdo
  (South Cholla), Ch'ungch'ong-bukto (North Ch'ungch'ong),
  Ch'ungch'ong-namdo (South Ch'ungch'ong), Kangwon-do, Kyonggi-do,
  Kyongsang-bukto (North Kyongsang), Kyongsang-namdo (South Kyongsang)
  metropolitan cities: Inch'on-gwangyoksi (Inch'on),
  Kwangju-gwangyoksi (Kwangju), Pusan-gwangyoksi (Pusan),
  Soul-t'ukpyolsi (Seoul), Taegu-gwangyoksi (Taegu), Taejon-gwangyoksi
  (Taejon), Ulsan-gwangyoksi (Ulsan)

Kosovo
  30 municipalities (komunat, singular - komuna in Albanian;
  opstine, singular - opstina in Serbian); Decan (Decani), Dragash
  (Dragas), Ferizaj (Urosevac), Fushe Kosove (Kosovo Polje), Gjakove
  (Dakovica), Gllogoc/Drenas (Glogovac), Gjilan (Gnjilane), Istog
  (Istok), Kacanik, Kamenice/Dardana (Kamenica), Kline (Klina),
  Leposaviq (Leposavic), Lipjan (Lipljan), Malisheve (Malisevo),
  Mitrovice (Mitrovica), Novoberde (Novo Brdo), Obiliq (Obilic), Peje
  (Pec), Podujeve (Podujevo), Prishtine (Pristina), Prizren, Rahovec
  (Orahovac), Shtime (Stimlje), Shterpce (Strpce), Skenderaj (Srbica),
  Suhareke (Suva Reka), Viti (Vitina), Vushtrri (Vucitrn), Zubin
  Potok, Zvecan

Kuwait
  6 governorates (muhafazat, singular - muhafazah); Al Ahmadi,
  Al 'Asimah, Al Farwaniyah, Al Jahra', Hawalli, Mubarak al Kabir

Kyrgyzstan
  7 provinces (oblastlar, singular - oblasty) and 1 city*
  (shaar); Batken Oblasty, Bishkek Shaary*, Chuy Oblasty (Bishkek),
  Jalal-Abad Oblasty, Naryn Oblasty, Osh Oblasty, Talas Oblasty,
  Ysyk-Kol Oblasty (Karakol)
  note: administrative divisions have the same names as their
  administrative centers (exceptions have the administrative center
  name following in parentheses)

Laos
  16 provinces (khoueng, singular and plural) and 1 capital city*
  (nakhon luang, singular and plural); Attapu, Bokeo, Bolikhamxai,
  Champasak, Houaphan, Khammouan, Louangnamtha, Louangphrabang,
  Oudomxai, Phongsali, Salavan, Savannakhet, Viangchan (Vientiane)*,
  Viangchan, Xaignabouli, Xekong, Xiangkhoang

Latvia
  26 counties (singular - rajons) and 7 municipalities*:
  Aizkraukles Rajons, Aluksnes Rajons, Balvu Rajons, Bauskas Rajons,
  Cesu Rajons, Daugavpils*, Daugavpils Rajons, Dobeles Rajons,
  Gulbenes Rajons, Jekabpils Rajons, Jelgava*, Jelgavas Rajons,
  Jurmala*, Kraslavas Rajons, Kuldigas Rajons, Liepaja*, Liepajas
  Rajons, Limbazu Rajons, Ludzas Rajons, Madonas Rajons, Ogres Rajons,
  Preilu Rajons, Rezekne*, Rezeknes Rajons, Riga*, Rigas Rajons,
  Saldus Rajons, Talsu Rajons, Tukuma Rajons, Valkas Rajons, Valmieras
  Rajons, Ventspils*, Ventspils Rajons

Lebanon
  8 governorates (mohafazat, singular - mohafazah); Aakar,
  Baalbek-Hermel, Beqaa, Beyrouth, Liban-Nord, Liban-Sud, Mont-Liban,
  Nabatiye

Lesotho
  10 districts; Berea, Butha-Buthe, Leribe, Mafeteng, Maseru,
  Mohale's Hoek, Mokhotlong, Qacha's Nek, Quthing, Thaba-Tseka

Liberia
  15 counties; Bomi, Bong, Gbarpolu, Grand Bassa, Grand Cape
  Mount, Grand Gedeh, Grand Kru, Lofa, Margibi, Maryland, Montserrado,
  Nimba, River Cess, River Gee, Sinoe

Libya
  25 municipalities (baladiyat, singular - baladiyah); Ajdabiya,
  Al 'Aziziyah, Al Fatih, Al Jabal al Akhdar, Al Jufrah, Al Khums, Al
  Kufrah, An Nuqat al Khams, Ash Shati', Awbari, Az Zawiyah, Banghazi,
  Darnah, Ghadamis, Gharyan, Misratah, Murzuq, Sabha, Sawfajjin, Surt,
  Tarabulus, Tarhunah, Tubruq, Yafran, Zlitan; note - the 25
  municipalities may have been replaced by 13 regions

Liechtenstein
  11 communes (Gemeinden, singular - Gemeinde); Balzers,
  Eschen, Gamprin, Mauren, Planken, Ruggell, Schaan, Schellenberg,
  Triesen, Triesenberg, Vaduz

Lithuania
  10 counties (apskritys, singular - apskritis); Alytaus,
  Kauno, Klaipedos, Marijampoles, Panevezio, Siauliu, Taurages,
  Telsiu, Utenos, Vilniaus

Luxembourg
  3 districts; Diekirch, Grevenmacher, Luxembourg

Macau
  none (special administrative region of China)

Macedonia
  84 municipalities (opstini, singular - opstina); Aerodrom
  (Skopje), Aracinovo, Berovo, Bitola, Bogdanci, Bogovinje, Bosilovo,
  Brvenica, Butel (Skopje), Cair (Skopje), Caska, Centar (Skopje),
  Centar Zupa, Cesinovo-Oblesevo, Cucer-Sandevo, Debar, Debarca,
  Delcevo, Demir Hisar, Demir Kapija, Dojran, Dolneni, Drugovo, Gazi
  Baba (Skopje), Gevgelija, Gjorce Petrov (Skopje), Gostivar, Gradsko,
  Ilinden, Jegunovce, Karbinci, Karpos (Skopje), Kavadarci, Kicevo,
  Kisela Voda (Skopje), Kocani, Konce, Kratovo, Kriva Palanka,
  Krivogastani, Krusevo, Kumanovo, Lipkovo, Lozovo, Makedonska
  Kamenica, Makedonski Brod, Mavrovo i Rostusa, Mogila, Negotino,
  Novaci, Novo Selo, Ohrid, Oslomej, Pehcevo, Petrovec, Plasnica,
  Prilep, Probistip, Radovis, Rankovce, Resen, Rosoman, Saraj
  (Skopje), Sopiste, Staro Nagoricane, Stip, Struga, Strumica,
  Studenicani, Suto Orizari (Skopje), Sveti Nikole, Tearce, Tetovo,
  Valandovo, Vasilevo, Veles, Vevcani, Vinica, Vranestica, Vrapciste,
  Zajas, Zelenikovo, Zelino, Zrnovci
  note: the 10 municipalities followed by Skopje in parentheses
  collectively constitute the larger Skopje Municipality

Madagascar
  6 provinces (faritany); Antananarivo, Antsiranana,
  Fianarantsoa, Mahajanga, Toamasina, Toliara

Malawi
  28 districts; Balaka, Blantyre, Chikwawa, Chiradzulu,
  Chitipa, Dedza, Dowa, Karonga, Kasungu, Likoma, Lilongwe, Machinga
  (Kasupe), Mangochi, Mchinji, Mulanje, Mwanza, Mzimba, Neno, Ntcheu,
  Nkhata Bay, Nkhotakota, Nsanje, Ntchisi, Phalombe, Rumphi, Salima,
  Thyolo, Zomba

Malaysia
  13 states (negeri-negeri, singular - negeri) Johor, Kedah,
  Kelantan, Melaka, Negeri Sembilan, Pahang, Perak, Perlis, Pulau
  Pinang, Sabah, Sarawak, Selangor, and Terengganu; and one federal
  territory (wilayah persekutuan) with three components, city of Kuala
  Lumpur, Labuan, and Putrajaya

Maldives
  19 atolls (atholhu, singular and plural) and the capital
  city*; Alifu, Baa, Dhaalu, Faafu, Gaafu Alifu, Gaafu Dhaalu,
  Gnaviyani, Haa Alifu, Haa Dhaalu, Kaafu, Laamu, Lhaviyani, Maale*
  (Male), Meemu, Noonu, Raa, Seenu, Shaviyani, Thaa, Vaavu

Mali
  8 regions (regions, singular - region); Gao, Kayes, Kidal,
  Koulikoro, Mopti, Segou, Sikasso, Tombouctou

Malta
  none (administered directly from Valletta); note - local
  councils carry out administrative orders

Marshall Islands
  33 municipalities; Ailinginae, Ailinglaplap, Ailuk,
  Arno, Aur, Bikar, Bikini, Bokak, Ebon, Enewetak, Erikub, Jabat,
  Jaluit, Jemo, Kili, Kwajalein, Lae, Lib, Likiep, Majuro, Maloelap,
  Mejit, Mili, Namorik, Namu, Rongelap, Rongrik, Toke, Ujae, Ujelang,
  Utirik, Wotho, Wotje

Mauritania
  12 regions (regions, singular - region) and 1 capital
  district*; Adrar, Assaba, Brakna, Dakhlet Nouadhibou, Gorgol,
  Guidimaka, Hodh Ech Chargui, Hodh El Gharbi, Inchiri, Nouakchott*,
  Tagant, Tiris Zemmour, Trarza

Mauritius
  9 districts and 3 dependencies*; Agalega Islands*, Black
  River, Cargados Carajos Shoals*, Flacq, Grand Port, Moka,
  Pamplemousses, Plaines Wilhems, Port Louis, Riviere du Rempart,
  Rodrigues*, Savanne

Mayotte
  none (territorial overseas collectivity of France)

Mexico
  31 states (estados, singular - estado) and 1 federal
  district* (distrito federal); Aguascalientes, Baja California, Baja
  California Sur, Campeche, Chiapas, Chihuahua, Coahuila de Zaragoza,
  Colima, Distrito Federal*, Durango, Guanajuato, Guerrero, Hidalgo,
  Jalisco, Mexico, Michoacan de Ocampo, Morelos, Nayarit, Nuevo Leon,
  Oaxaca, Puebla, Queretaro de Arteaga, Quintana Roo, San Luis Potosi,
  Sinaloa, Sonora, Tabasco, Tamaulipas, Tlaxcala, Veracruz-Llave,
  Yucatan, Zacatecas

Micronesia, Federated States of
  4 states; Chuuk (Truk), Kosrae
  (Kosaie), Pohnpei (Ponape), Yap

Moldova
  32 raions (raioane, singular - raionul), 3 municipalities
  (municipiul), 1 autonomous territorial unit (unitatea teritoriala
  autonoma), and 1 territorial unit (unitatea teritoriala)
  raions: Anenii Noi, Basarabeasca, Briceni, Cahul, Cantemir,
  Calarasi, Causeni, Cimislia, Criuleni, Donduseni, Drochia, Dubasari,
  Edinet, Falesti, Floresti, Glodeni, Hincesti, Ialoveni, Leova,
  Nisporeni, Ocnita, Orhei, Rezina, Riscani, Singerei, Soldanesti,
  Soroca, Stefan-Voda, Straseni, Taraclia, Telenesti, Ungheni
  municipalities: Balti, Bender, Chisinau
  autonomous territorial unit: Gagauzia
  territorial unit: Stinga Nistrului (Transnistria)

Monaco
  none; there are no first-order administrative divisions as
  defined by the US Government, but there are four quarters
  (quartiers, singular - quartier); Fontvieille, La Condamine,
  Monaco-Ville, Monte-Carlo

Mongolia
  21 provinces (aymguud, singular - aymag) and 1
  municipality* (singular - hot); Arhangay, Bayanhongor, Bayan-Olgiy,
  Bulgan, Darhan-Uul, Dornod, Dornogovi, Dundgovi, Dzavhan,
  Govi-Altay, Govisumber, Hentiy, Hovd, Hovsgol, Omnogovi, Orhon,
  Ovorhangay, Selenge, Suhbaatar, Tov, Ulaanbaatar*, Uvs

Montenegro
  21 municipalities (opstine, singular - opstina);
  Andrijevica, Bar, Berana, Bijelo Polje, Budva, Cetinje, Danilovgrad,
  Herceg Novi, Kolasin, Kotor, Mojkovac, Niksic, Plav, Pljevlja,
  Pluzine, Podgorica, Rozaje, Savnik, Tivat, Ulcinj, Zabljak

Montserrat
  3 parishes; Saint Anthony, Saint Georges, Saint Peter

Morocco
  15 regions; Grand Casablanca, Chaouia-Ouardigha,
  Doukkala-Abda, Fes-Boulemane, Gharb-Chrarda-Beni Hssen, Guelmim-Es
  Smara, Laayoune-Boujdour-Sakia El Hamra, Marrakech-Tensift-Al Haouz,
  Meknes-Tafilalet, Oriental, Rabat-Sale-Zemmour-Zaer,
  Souss-Massa-Draa, Tadla-Azilal, Tanger-Tetouan, Taza-Al
  Hoceima-Taounate
  note: Morocco claims the territory of Western Sahara, the political
  status of which is considered undetermined by the US Government;
  portions of the regions Guelmim-Es Smara and Laayoune-Boujdour-Sakia
  El Hamra as claimed by Morocco lie within Western Sahara; Morocco
  claims another region, Oued Eddahab-Lagouira, which falls entirely
  within Western Sahara

Mozambique
  10 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia), 1 city
  (cidade)*; Cabo Delgado, Gaza, Inhambane, Manica, Maputo, Cidade de
  Maputo*, Nampula, Niassa, Sofala, Tete, Zambezia

Namibia
  13 regions; Caprivi, Erongo, Hardap, Karas, Khomas, Kunene,
  Ohangwena, Okavango, Omaheke, Omusati, Oshana, Oshikoto, Otjozondjupa

Nauru
  14 districts; Aiwo, Anabar, Anetan, Anibare, Baiti, Boe,
  Buada, Denigomodu, Ewa, Ijuw, Meneng, Nibok, Uaboe, Yaren

Nepal
  14 zones (anchal, singular and plural); Bagmati, Bheri,
  Dhawalagiri, Gandaki, Janakpur, Karnali, Kosi, Lumbini, Mahakali,
  Mechi, Narayani, Rapti, Sagarmatha, Seti

Netherlands
  12 provinces (provincies, singular - provincie);
  Drenthe, Flevoland, Friesland (Fryslan), Gelderland, Groningen,
  Limburg, Noord-Brabant (North Brabant), Noord-Holland (North
  Holland), Overijssel, Utrecht, Zeeland (Zealand), Zuid-Holland
  (South Holland)

Netherlands Antilles
  none (part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands)
  note: each island has its own government

New Caledonia
  none (overseas territory of France); there are no
  first-order administrative divisions as defined by the US
  Government, but there are 3 provinces named Province des Iles,
  Province Nord, and Province Sud

New Zealand
  16 regions and 1 territory*; Auckland, Bay of Plenty,
  Canterbury, Chatham Islands*, Gisborne, Hawke's Bay,
  Manawatu-Wanganui, Marlborough, Nelson, Northland, Otago, Southland,
  Taranaki, Tasman, Waikato, Wellington, West Coast

Nicaragua
  15 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento)
  and 2 autonomous regions* (regiones autonomistas, singular - region
  autonoma); Atlantico Norte*, Atlantico Sur*, Boaco, Carazo,
  Chinandega, Chontales, Esteli, Granada, Jinotega, Leon, Madriz,
  Managua, Masaya, Matagalpa, Nueva Segovia, Rio San Juan, Rivas

Niger
  8 regions (regions, singular - region) includes 1 capital
  district* (communite urbaine); Agadez, Diffa, Dosso, Maradi,
  Niamey*, Tahoua, Tillaberi, Zinder

Nigeria
  36 states and 1 territory*; Abia, Adamawa, Akwa Ibom,
  Anambra, Bauchi, Bayelsa, Benue, Borno, Cross River, Delta, Ebonyi,
  Edo, Ekiti, Enugu, Federal Capital Territory*, Gombe, Imo, Jigawa,
  Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Kebbi, Kogi, Kwara, Lagos, Nassarawa, Niger,
  Ogun, Ondo, Osun, Oyo, Plateau, Rivers, Sokoto, Taraba, Yobe, Zamfara

Niue
  none; note - there are no first-order administrative divisions
  as defined by the US Government, but there are 14 villages at the
  second order

Norfolk Island
  none (territory of Australia)

Northern Mariana Islands
  none (commonwealth in political union with
  the US); there are no first-order administrative divisions as
  defined by the US Government, but there are four municipalities at
  the second order: Northern Islands, Rota, Saipan, Tinian

Norway
  19 counties (fylker, singular - fylke); Akershus, Aust-Agder,
  Buskerud, Finnmark, Hedmark, Hordaland, More og Romsdal, Nordland,
  Nord-Trondelag, Oppland, Oslo, Ostfold, Rogaland, Sogn og Fjordane,
  Sor-Trondelag, Telemark, Troms, Vest-Agder, Vestfold

Oman
  5 regions (manatiq, singular - mintaqat) and 4 governorates*
  (muhafazat, singular - muhafazat) Ad Dakhiliyah, Al Batinah, Al
  Buraymi*, Al Wusta, Ash Sharqiyah, Az Zahirah, Masqat (Muscat)*,
  Musandam*, Zufar (Dhofar)*

Pakistan
  4 provinces, 1 territory*, and 1 capital territory**;
  Balochistan, Federally Administered Tribal Areas*, Islamabad Capital
  Territory**, North-West Frontier Province, Punjab, Sindh
  note: the Pakistani-administered portion of the disputed Jammu and
  Kashmir region consists of two administrative entities: Azad Kashmir
  and Northern Areas

Palau
  16 states; Aimeliik, Airai, Angaur, Hatohobei, Kayangel,
  Koror, Melekeok, Ngaraard, Ngarchelong, Ngardmau, Ngatpang,
  Ngchesar, Ngeremlengui, Ngiwal, Peleliu, Sonsorol

Panama
  11 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia) and 1
  territory* (comarca); Bocas del Toro, Comarca Kuna Yala, Comarca
  Ngobe-Bugle, Chiriqui, Cocle, Colon, Darien, Herrera, Los Santos,
  Panama, San Blas*(Kuna Yala), and Veraguas

Papua New Guinea
  20 provinces; Bougainville, Central, Chimbu,
  Eastern Highlands, East New Britain, East Sepik, Enga, Gulf, Madang,
  Manus, Milne Bay, Morobe, National Capital, New Ireland, Northern,
  Sandaun, Southern Highlands, Western, Western Highlands, West New
  Britain

Paraguay
  17 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento) and
  1 capital city*; Alto Paraguay, Alto Parana, Amambay, Asuncion*,
  Boqueron, Caaguazu, Caazapa, Canindeyu, Central, Concepcion,
  Cordillera, Guaira, Itapua, Misiones, Neembucu, Paraguari,
  Presidente Hayes, San Pedro

Peru
  25 regions (regiones, singular - region) and 1 province*
  (provincia); Amazonas, Ancash, Apurimac, Arequipa, Ayacucho,
  Cajamarca, Callao, Cusco, Huancavelica, Huanuco, Ica, Junin, La
  Libertad, Lambayeque, Lima, Lima*, Loreto, Madre de Dios, Moquegua,
  Pasco, Piura, Puno, San Martin, Tacna, Tumbes, Ucayali

Philippines
  81 provinces and 136 chartered cities
  provinces: Abra, Agusan del Norte, Agusan del Sur, Aklan, Albay,
  Antique, Apayao, Aurora, Basilan, Bataan, Batanes, Batangas,
  Biliran, Benguet, Bohol, Bukidnon, Bulacan, Cagayan, Camarines
  Norte, Camarines Sur, Camiguin, Capiz, Catanduanes, Cavite, Cebu,
  Compostela, Davao del Norte, Davao del Sur, Davao Oriental, Dinagat
  Islands, Eastern Samar, Guimaras, Ifugao, Ilocos Norte, Ilocos Sur,
  Iloilo, Isabela, Kalinga, Laguna, Lanao del Norte, Lanao del Sur, La
  Union, Leyte, Maguindanao, Marinduque, Masbate, Mindoro Occidental,
  Mindoro Oriental, Misamis Occidental, Misamis Oriental, Mountain
  Province, Negros Occidental, Negros Oriental, North Cotabato,
  Northern Samar, Nueva Ecija, Nueva Vizcaya, Palawan, Pampanga,
  Pangasinan, Quezon, Quirino, Rizal, Romblon, Samar, Sarangani,
  Shariff Kabunsuan, Siquijor, Sorsogon, South Cotabato, Southern
  Leyte, Sultan Kudarat, Sulu, Surigao del Norte, Surigao del Sur,
  Tarlac, Tawi-Tawi, Zambales, Zamboanga del Norte, Zamboanga del Sur,
  Zamboanga Sibugay
  chartered cities: Alaminos, Angeles, Antipolo, Bacolod, Bago,
  Baguio, Bais, Balanga, Batac, Batangas, Bayawan, Baybay, Bayugan,
  Bislig, Bogo, Borongan, Butuan, Cabadbaran, Cabanatuan, Cadiz,
  Cagayan de Oro, Calamba, Calapan, Calbayog, Candon, Canlaon, Carcar,
  Catbalogan, Cauayan, Cavite, Cebu, Cotabato, Dagupan, Danao,
  Dapitan, Davao, Digos, Dipolog, Dumaguete, Escalante, El Salvador,
  Gapan, General Santos, Gingoog, Guihulngan, Himamaylan, Iligan,
  Iloilo, Isabela, Iriga, Kabankalan, Kalookan, Kidapawan, Koronadal,
  La Carlota, Lamitan, Laoag, Lapu-Lapu, Las Pinas, Legazpi, Ligao,
  Lipa, Lucena, Maasin, Makati, Malabon, Malaybalay, Malolos,
  Mandaluyong, Mandaue, Manila, Marawi, Marikina, Masbate, Mati,
  Meycauayan, Muntinlupa, Munoz, Naga (Camarines Sur), Naga (Cebu),
  Navotas, Olongapo, Ormoc, Oroquieta, Ozamis, Pagadian, Palayan,
  Panabo, Paranaque, Pasay, Pasig, Passi, Puerto Princesa, Quezon,
  Roxas, Sagay, Samal, San Carlos (in Negros Occidental), San Carlos
  (in Pangasinan), San Fernando (in La Union), San Fernando (in
  Pampanga), San Jose, San Jose del Monte, San Juan, San Pablo, Santa
  Rosa, Santiago, Silay, Sipalay, Sorsogon, Surigao, Tabaco, Tabuk,
  Tacloban, Tacurong, Tagaytay, Tagbilaran, Taguig, Tagum, Talisay (in
  Cebu), Talisay (in Negros Occidental), Tanauan, Tandag, Tangub,
  Tanjay, Tarlac, Tayabas, Toledo, Tuguegarao, Trece Martires,
  Urdaneta, Valencia, Valenzuela, Victorias, Vigan, Zamboanga (2007)

Pitcairn Islands
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Poland
  16 provinces (wojewodztwa, singular - wojewodztwo);
  Dolnoslaskie (Lower Silesia), Kujawsko-Pomorskie
  (Kuyavia-Pomerania), Lodzkie, Lubelskie (Lublin), Lubuskie (Lubusz),
  Malopolskie (Lesser Poland), Mazowieckie (Masovia), Opolskie,
  Podkarpackie (Subcarpathia), Podlaskie, Pomorskie (Pomerania),
  Slaskie (Silesia), Swietokrzyskie, Warminsko-Mazurskie
  (Warmia-Masuria), Wielkopolskie (Greater Poland), Zachodniopomorskie
  (West Pomerania)

Portugal
  18 districts (distritos, singular - distrito) and 2
  autonomous regions* (regioes autonomas, singular - regiao autonoma);
  Aveiro, Acores (Azores)*, Beja, Braga, Braganca, Castelo Branco,
  Coimbra, Evora, Faro, Guarda, Leiria, Lisboa (Lisbon), Madeira*,
  Portalegre, Porto, Santarem, Setubal, Viana do Castelo, Vila Real,
  Viseu

Puerto Rico
  none (territory of the US with commonwealth status);
  there are no first-order administrative divisions as defined by the
  US Government, but there are 78 municipalities (municipios, singular
  - municipio) at the second order; Adjuntas, Aguada, Aguadilla, Aguas
  Buenas, Aibonito, Anasco, Arecibo, Arroyo, Barceloneta,
  Barranquitas, Bayamon, Cabo Rojo, Caguas, Camuy, Canovanas,
  Carolina, Catano, Cayey, Ceiba, Ciales, Cidra, Coamo, Comerio,
  Corozal, Culebra, Dorado, Fajardo, Florida, Guanica, Guayama,
  Guayanilla, Guaynabo, Gurabo, Hatillo, Hormigueros, Humacao,
  Isabela, Jayuya, Juana Diaz, Juncos, Lajas, Lares, Las Marias, Las
  Piedras, Loiza, Luquillo, Manati, Maricao, Maunabo, Mayaguez, Moca,
  Morovis, Naguabo, Naranjito, Orocovis, Patillas, Penuelas, Ponce,
  Quebradillas, Rincon, Rio Grande, Sabana Grande, Salinas, San
  German, San Juan, San Lorenzo, San Sebastian, Santa Isabel, Toa
  Alta, Toa Baja, Trujillo Alto, Utuado, Vega Alta, Vega Baja,
  Vieques, Villalba, Yabucoa, Yauco

Qatar
  10 municipalities (baladiyat, singular - baladiyah); Ad
  Dawhah, Al Ghuwayriyah, Al Jumayliyah, Al Khawr, Al Wakrah, Ar
  Rayyan, Jarayan al Batinah, Madinat ash Shamal, Umm Sa'id, Umm Salal

Romania
  41 counties (judete, singular - judet) and 1 municipality*
  (municipiu); Alba, Arad, Arges, Bacau, Bihor, Bistrita-Nasaud,
  Botosani, Braila, Brasov, Bucuresti (Bucharest)*, Buzau, Calarasi,
  Caras-Severin, Cluj, Constanta, Covasna, Dimbovita, Dolj, Galati,
  Gorj, Giurgiu, Harghita, Hunedoara, Ialomita, Iasi, Ilfov,
  Maramures, Mehedinti, Mures, Neamt, Olt, Prahova, Salaj, Satu Mare,
  Sibiu, Suceava, Teleorman, Timis, Tulcea, Vaslui, Vilcea, Vrancea

Russia
  46 oblasts (oblastey, singular - oblast), 21 republics
  (respublik, singular - respublika), 4 autonomous okrugs (avtonomnykh
  okrugov, singular - avtonomnyy okrug), 9 krays (krayev, singular -
  kray), 2 federal cities (goroda, singular - gorod), and 1 autonomous
  oblast (avtonomnaya oblast')
  oblasts: Amur (Blagoveshchensk), Arkhangel'sk, Astrakhan', Belgorod,
  Bryansk, Chelyabinsk, Irkutsk, Ivanovo, Kaliningrad, Kaluga,
  Kemerovo, Kirov, Kostroma, Kurgan, Kursk, Leningrad, Lipetsk,
  Magadan, Moscow, Murmansk, Nizhniy Novgorod, Novgorod, Novosibirsk,
  Omsk, Orenburg, Orel, Penza, Pskov, Rostov, Ryazan', Sakhalin
  (Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk), Samara, Saratov, Smolensk, Sverdlovsk
  (Yekaterinburg), Tambov, Tomsk, Tula, Tver', Tyumen', Ul'yanovsk,
  Vladimir, Volgograd, Vologda, Voronezh, Yaroslavl'
  republics: Adygeya (Maykop), Altay (Gorno-Altaysk), Bashkortostan
  (Ufa), Buryatiya (Ulan-Ude), Chechnya (Groznyy), Chuvashiya
  (Cheboksary), Dagestan (Makhachkala), Ingushetiya (Magas),
  Kabardino-Balkariya (Nal'chik), Kalmykiya (Elista),
  Karachayevo-Cherkesiya (Cherkessk), Kareliya (Petrozavodsk),
  Khakasiya (Abakan), Komi (Syktyvkar), Mariy-El (Yoshkar-Ola),
  Mordoviya (Saransk), North Ossetia (Vladikavkaz), Sakha [Yakutiya]
  (Yakutsk), Tatarstan (Kazan'), Tyva (Kyzyl), Udmurtiya (Izhevsk)
  autonomous okrugs: Chukotka (Anadyr'), Khanty-Mansi
  (Khanty-Mansiysk), Nenets (Nar'yan-Mar), Yamalo-Nenets (Salekhard)
  krays: Altay (Barnaul), Kamchatka (Petropavlovsk-Kamchatskiy),
  Khabarovsk, Krasnodar, Krasnoyarsk, Perm', Primorskiy (Vladivostok),
  Stavropol', Zabaykal'skiy (Chita)
  federal cities: Moscow (Moskva), Saint Petersburg (Sankt-Peterburg)
  autonomous oblast: Yevrey [Jewish] (Birobidzhan)
  note: administrative divisions have the same names as their
  administrative centers (exceptions have the administrative center
  name following in parentheses)

Rwanda
  4 provinces (in French - provinces, singular - province; in
  Kinyarwanda - intara for singular and plural) and 1 city* (in French
  - ville; in Kinyarwanda - umujyi); Est (Eastern), Kigali*, Nord
  (Northern), Ouest (Western), Sud (Southern)

Saint Helena
  1 administrative area and 2 dependencies*; Ascension*,
  Saint Helena, Tristan da Cunha*

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  14 parishes; Christ Church Nichola Town, Saint
  Anne Sandy Point, Saint George Basseterre, Saint George Gingerland,
  Saint James Windward, Saint John Capesterre, Saint John Figtree,
  Saint Mary Cayon, Saint Paul Capesterre, Saint Paul Charlestown,
  Saint Peter Basseterre, Saint Thomas Lowland, Saint Thomas Middle
  Island, Trinity Palmetto Point

Saint Lucia
  11 quarters; Anse-la-Raye, Castries, Choiseul, Dauphin,
  Dennery, Gros-Islet, Laborie, Micoud, Praslin, Soufriere, Vieux-Fort

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  none (territorial overseas collectivity of
  France); note - there are no first-order administrative divisions as
  defined by the US Government, but there are two communes - Saint
  Pierre, Miquelon at the second order

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  6 parishes; Charlotte, Grenadines,
  Saint Andrew, Saint David, Saint George, Saint Patrick

Samoa
  11 districts; A'ana, Aiga-i-le-Tai, Atua, Fa'asaleleaga,
  Gaga'emauga, Gagaifomauga, Palauli, Satupa'itea, Tuamasaga,
  Va'a-o-Fonoti, Vaisigano

San Marino
  9 municipalities (castelli, singular - castello);
  Acquaviva, Borgo Maggiore, Chiesanuova, Domagnano, Faetano,
  Fiorentino, Montegiardino, San Marino Citta, Serravalle

Sao Tome and Principe
  2 provinces; Principe, Sao Tome
  note: Principe has had self government since 29 April 1995

Saudi Arabia
  13 provinces (mintaqat, singular - mintaqah); Al Bahah,
  Al Hudud ash Shamaliyah, Al Jawf, Al Madinah, Al Qasim, Ar Riyad,
  Ash Sharqiyah (Eastern Province), 'Asir, Ha'il, Jizan, Makkah,
  Najran, Tabuk

Senegal
  11 regions (regions, singular - region); Dakar, Diourbel,
  Fatick, Kaolack, Kolda, Louga, Matam, Saint-Louis, Tambacounda,
  Thies, Ziguinchor

Serbia
  161 municipalities (opcstine, singular - opcstina)
  Serbia Proper: Beograd: Barajevo, Cukavica, Grocka, Lazarevac,
  Mladnovac, Novi Beograd, Obrenovac, Palilula, Rakovica, Savski
  Venac, Sopot, Stari Grad, Surcin, Vozdovac, Vracar, Zemun, Zrezdara;
  Borski Okrug: Bor, Kladovo, Majdanpek, Negotin; Branicevski Okrug:
  Golubac, Kucevo, Malo Crnice, Petrovac, Pozarevac, Veliko Gradiste,
  Zabari, Zagubica; Jablanicki Okrug: Bojnik, Crna Trava, Lebane,
  Leskovac, Medvedja, Vlasotince; Kolubarski Okrug: Lajkovac, Ljig,
  Mionica, Osecina, Ub, Valjevo; Macvanski Okrug: Bogatic, Koceljeva,
  Krupanj, Ljubovija, Loznica, Mali Zvornik, Sabac, Vladimirci;
  Moravicki Okrug: Cacak, Gornkji Milanovac, Ivanjica, Lucani;
  Nisavski Okrug: Aleksinac, Doljevac, Gadzin Han, Merosina, Nis,
  Razanj, Svrljig; Pcinjski Okrug: Bosilegrad, Bujanovac, Presevo,
  Surdulica, Trgoviste, Vladicin Han, Vranje; Pirotski Okrug:
  Babusnica, Bela Palanka, Dimitrovgrad, Pirot; Podunavski Okrug:
  Smederevo, Smederevskia Palanka, Velika Plana; Pomoravski Okrug:
  Cuprija, Despotovac, Jagodina, Paracin, Rckovac, Svilajnac; Rasinski
  Okrug: Aleksandrovac, Brus, Cicevac, Krusevac, Trstenik, Varvarin;
  Raski Okrug: Kraljevo, Novi Pazar, Raska, Tutin, Vrnjacka Banja;
  Sumadijski Okrug: Arandjelovac, Batocina, Knic, Kragujevac, Lapovo,
  Raca, Topola; Toplicki Okrug: Blace, Kursumlija, Prokuplje,
  Zitoradja; Zajecarski Okrug: Boljevac, Knjazevac, Sokobanja,
  Zalecar; Zlatiborski Okrug: Arilje, Bajina Basta, Cajetina,
  Kosjeric, Nova Varos, Pozega, Priboj, Prijepolje, Sjenica, Uzice
  Vojvodina Autonomous Province: Juzno-Backi Okrug: Backi Petrovac,
  Beocin, Novi Sad, Sremski Karlovci, Temerin, Titel, Zabalj; Juzno
  Banatski Okrug: Alibunar, Bela Crkva, Kovacica, Kovin, Opovo,
  Pancevo, Plandiste, Vrsac; Severno-Backi Okrug: Backa Topola, Mali
  Idjos, Subotica; Severno-Banatski Okrug: Ada, Coka, Kanjiza,
  Kikinda, Novi Knezevac, Senta; Srednje-Banatski Okrug: Nova Crnja,
  Novi Becej, Secanj, Zitiste, Zrenjanin; Sremski Okrug: Indjija,
  Irig, Pecinci, Ruma, Sid, Sremska Mitrovica, Stara Pazova;
  Zapadno-Backi Okrug: Apatin, Kula, Odzaci, Sombor

Seychelles
  23 administrative districts; Anse aux Pins, Anse Boileau,
  Anse Etoile, Anse Louis, Anse Royale, Baie Lazare, Baie Sainte Anne,
  Beau Vallon, Bel Air, Bel Ombre, Cascade, Glacis, Grand' Anse (on
  Mahe), Grand' Anse (on Praslin), La Digue, La Riviere Anglaise, Mont
  Buxton, Mont Fleuri, Plaisance, Pointe La Rue, Port Glaud, Saint
  Louis, Takamaka

Sierra Leone
  3 provinces and 1 area*; Eastern, Northern, Southern,
  Western*

Singapore
  none

Slovakia
  8 regions (kraje, singular - kraj); Banskobystricky,
  Bratislavsky, Kosicky, Nitriansky, Presovsky, Trenciansky, Trnavsky,
  Zilinsky

Slovenia
  182 municipalities (obcine, singular - obcina) and 11 urban
  municipalities* (mestne obcine , singular - mestna obcina )
  Ajdovscina, Beltinci, Benedikt, Bistrica ob Sotli, Bled, Bloke,
  Bohinj, Borovnica, Bovec, Braslovce, Brda, Brezice, Brezovica,
  Cankova, Celje*, Cerklje na Gorenjskem, Cerknica, Cerkno,
  Cerkvenjak, Crensovci, Crna na Koroskem, Crnomelj, Destrnik, Divaca,
  Dobje, Dobrepolje, Dobrna, Dobrova-Horjul-Polhov Gradec,
  Dobrovnik-Dobronak, Dolenjske Toplice, Dol pri Ljubljani, Domzale,
  Dornava, Dravograd, Duplek, Gorenja Vas-Poljane, Gorisnica, Gornja
  Radgona, Gornji Grad, Gornji Petrovci, Grad, Grosuplje, Hajdina,
  Hoce-Slivnica, Hodos-Hodos, Horjul, Hrastnik, Hrpelje-Kozina,
  Idrija, Ig, Ilirska Bistrica, Ivancna Gorica, Izola-Isola, Jesenice,
  Jezersko, Jursinci, Kamnik, Kanal, Kidricevo, Kobarid, Kobilje,
  Kocevje, Komen, Komenda, Koper-Capodistria*, Kostel, Kozje, Kranj*,
  Kranjska Gora, Krizevci, Krsko, Kungota, Kuzma, Lasko, Lenart,
  Lendava-Lendva, Litija, Ljubljana*, Ljubno, Ljutomer, Logatec, Loska
  Dolina, Loski Potok, Lovrenc na Pohorju, Luce, Lukovica, Majsperk,
  Maribor*, Markovci, Medvode, Menges, Metlika, Mezica, Miklavz na
  Dravskem Polju, Miren-Kostanjevica, Mirna Pec, Mislinja, Moravce,
  Moravske Toplice, Mozirje, Murska Sobota*, Muta, Naklo, Nazarje,
  Nova Gorica*, Novo Mesto*, Odranci, Oplotnica, Ormoz, Osilnica,
  Pesnica, Piran-Pirano, Pivka, Podcetrtek, Podlehnik, Podvelka,
  Polzela, Postojna, Prebold, Preddvor, Prevalje, Ptuj*, Puconci,
  Race-Fram, Radece, Radenci, Radlje ob Dravi, Radovljica, Ravne na
  Koroskem, Razkrizje, Ribnica, Ribnica na Pohorju, Rogasovci, Rogaska
  Slatina, Rogatec, Ruse, Salovci, Selnica ob Dravi, Semic,
  Sempeter-Vrtojba, Sencur, Sentilj, Sentjernej, Sentjur pri Celju,
  Sevnica, Sezana, Skocjan, Skofja Loka, Skofljica, Slovenj Gradec*,
  Slovenska Bistrica, Slovenske Konjice, Smarje pri Jelsah, Smartno ob
  Paki, Smartno pri Litiji, Sodrazica, Solcava, Sostanj, Starse,
  Store, Sveta Ana, Sveti Andraz v Slovenskih Goricah, Sveti Jurij,
  Tabor, Tisina, Tolmin, Trbovlje, Trebnje, Trnovska Vas, Trzic,
  Trzin, Turnisce, Velenje*, Velika Polana, Velike Lasce, Verzej,
  Videm, Vipava, Vitanje, Vodice, Vojnik, Vransko, Vrhnika, Vuzenica,
  Zagorje ob Savi, Zalec, Zavrc, Zelezniki, Zetale, Ziri, Zirovnica,
  Zuzemberk, Zrece
  note: the Government of Slovenia has reported 210 municipalities

Solomon Islands
  9 provinces and 1 capital territory*; Central,
  Choiseul, Guadalcanal, Honiara*, Isabel, Makira, Malaita, Rennell
  and Bellona, Temotu, Western

Somalia
  18 regions (plural - NA, singular - gobolka); Awdal, Bakool,
  Banaadir, Bari, Bay, Galguduud, Gedo, Hiiraan, Jubbada Dhexe,
  Jubbada Hoose, Mudug, Nugaal, Sanaag, Shabeellaha Dhexe, Shabeellaha
  Hoose, Sool, Togdheer, Woqooyi Galbeed

South Africa
  9 provinces; Eastern Cape, Free State, Gauteng,
  KwaZulu-Natal, Limpopo, Mpumalanga, Northern Cape, North-West,
  Western Cape

Spain
  17 autonomous communities (comunidades autonomas, singular -
  comunidad autonoma) and 2 autonomous cities* (ciudades autonomas,
  singular - ciudad autonoma); Andalucia, Aragon, Asturias, Baleares
  (Balearic Islands), Ceuta*, Canarias (Canary Islands), Cantabria,
  Castilla-La Mancha, Castilla y Leon, Cataluna (Catalonia), Comunidad
  Valenciana (Valencian Community), Extremadura, Galicia, La Rioja,
  Madrid, Melilla*, Murcia, Navarra, Pais Vasco (Basque Country)
  note: the autonomous cities of Ceuta and Melilla plus three small
  islands of Islas Chafarinas, Penon de Alhucemas, and Penon de Velez
  de la Gomera, administered directly by the Spanish central
  government, are all along the coast of Morocco and are collectively
  referred to as Places of Sovereignty (Plazas de Soberania)

Sri Lanka
  8 provinces; Central, North Central, North Eastern, North
  Western, Sabaragamuwa, Southern, Uva, Western
  note: in October 2006, a Sri Lankan Supreme Court ruling voided a
  presidential directive merging the North and Eastern Provinces; many
  have defended the merger as a prerequisite for a negotiated
  settlement to the ethnic conflict; a parliamentary decision on the
  issue is pending

Sudan
  25 states (wilayat, singular - wilayah); A'ali an Nil (Upper
  Nile), Al Bahr al Ahmar (Red Sea), Al Buhayrat (Lakes), Al Jazirah
  (El Gezira), Al Khartum (Khartoum), Al Qadarif (Gedaref), Al Wahdah
  (Unity), An Nil al Abyad (White Nile), An Nil al Azraq (Blue Nile),
  Ash Shamaliyah (Northern), Bahr al Jabal (Bahr al Jabal), Gharb al
  Istiwa'iyah (Western Equatoria), Gharb Bahr al Ghazal (Western Bahr
  al Ghazal), Gharb Darfur (Western Darfur), Janub Darfur (Southern
  Darfur), Janub Kurdufan (Southern Kordofan), Junqali (Jonglei),
  Kassala (Kassala), Nahr an Nil (Nile), Shamal Bahr al Ghazal
  (Northern Bahr al Ghazal), Shamal Darfur (Northern Darfur), Shamal
  Kurdufan (Northern Kordofan), Sharq al Istiwa'iyah (Eastern
  Equatoria), Sinnar (Sinnar), Warab (Warab)

Suriname
  10 districts (distrikten, singular - distrikt); Brokopondo,
  Commewijne, Coronie, Marowijne, Nickerie, Para, Paramaribo,
  Saramacca, Sipaliwini, Wanica

Swaziland
  4 districts; Hhohho, Lubombo, Manzini, Shiselweni

Sweden
  21 counties (lan, singular and plural); Blekinge, Dalarnas,
  Gavleborgs, Gotlands, Hallands, Jamtlands, Jonkopings, Kalmar,
  Kronobergs, Norrbottens, Orebro, Ostergotlands, Skane,
  Sodermanlands, Stockholm, Uppsala, Varmlands, Vasterbottens,
  Vasternorrlands, Vastmanlands, Vastra Gotalands

Switzerland
  26 cantons (cantons, singular - canton in French;
  cantoni, singular - cantone in Italian; Kantone, singular - Kanton
  in German); Aargau, Appenzell Ausser-Rhoden, Appenzell Inner-Rhoden,
  Basel-Landschaft, Basel-Stadt, Bern, Fribourg, Geneve, Glarus,
  Graubunden, Jura, Luzern, Neuchatel, Nidwalden, Obwalden, Sankt
  Gallen, Schaffhausen, Schwyz, Solothurn, Thurgau, Ticino, Uri,
  Valais, Vaud, Zug, Zurich

Syria
  14 provinces (muhafazat, singular - muhafazah); Al Hasakah, Al
  Ladhiqiyah, Al Qunaytirah, Ar Raqqah, As Suwayda', Dar'a, Dayr az
  Zawr, Dimashq, Halab, Hamah, Hims, Idlib, Rif Dimashq, Tartus

Taiwan
  includes main island of Taiwan plus smaller islands nearby
  and off coast of China's Fujian Province; Taiwan is divided into 18
  counties (hsien, singular and plural), 5 municipalities (shih,
  singular and plural), and 2 special municipalities (chuan-shih,
  singular and plural)
  note: Taiwan uses a variety of romanization systems; while a
  modified Wade-Giles system still dominates, the city of Taipei has
  adopted a Pinyin romanization for street and place names within its
  boundaries; other local authorities use different romanization
  systems; names for administrative divisions that follow are taken
  from the Taiwan Yearbook 2007 published by the Government
  Information Office in Taipei.
  counties: Changhua, Chiayi [county], Hsinchu, Hualien, Kaohsiung
  [county], Kinmen, Lienchiang, Miaoli, Nantou, Penghu, Pingtung,
  Taichung, Tainan, Taipei [county], Taitung, Taoyuan, Yilan, and
  Yunlin
  municipalities: Chiayi [city], Hsinchu, Keelung, Taichung, Tainan
  special municipalities: Kaohsiung [city], Taipei [city]

Tajikistan
  2 provinces (viloyatho, singular - viloyat) and 1
  autonomous province* (viloyati mukhtor); Viloyati Khatlon
  (Qurghonteppa), Viloyati Mukhtori Kuhistoni Badakhshon*
  [Gorno-Badakhshan] (Khorugh), Viloyati Sughd (Khujand)
  note: the administrative center name follows in parentheses

Tanzania
  26 regions; Arusha, Dar es Salaam, Dodoma, Iringa, Kagera,
  Kigoma, Kilimanjaro, Lindi, Manyara, Mara, Mbeya, Morogoro, Mtwara,
  Mwanza, Pemba North, Pemba South, Pwani, Rukwa, Ruvuma, Shinyanga,
  Singida, Tabora, Tanga, Zanzibar Central/South, Zanzibar North,
  Zanzibar Urban/West

Thailand
  76 provinces (changwat, singular and plural); Amnat
  Charoen, Ang Thong, Buriram, Chachoengsao, Chai Nat, Chaiyaphum,
  Chanthaburi, Chiang Mai, Chiang Rai, Chon Buri, Chumphon, Kalasin,
  Kamphaeng Phet, Kanchanaburi, Khon Kaen, Krabi, Krung Thep
  Mahanakhon (Bangkok), Lampang, Lamphun, Loei, Lop Buri, Mae Hong
  Son, Maha Sarakham, Mukdahan, Nakhon Nayok, Nakhon Pathom, Nakhon
  Phanom, Nakhon Ratchasima, Nakhon Sawan, Nakhon Si Thammarat, Nan,
  Narathiwat, Nong Bua Lamphu, Nong Khai, Nonthaburi, Pathum Thani,
  Pattani, Phangnga, Phatthalung, Phayao, Phetchabun, Phetchaburi,
  Phichit, Phitsanulok, Phra Nakhon Si Ayutthaya, Phrae, Phuket,
  Prachin Buri, Prachuap Khiri Khan, Ranong, Ratchaburi, Rayong, Roi
  Et, Sa Kaeo, Sakon Nakhon, Samut Prakan, Samut Sakhon, Samut
  Songkhram, Sara Buri, Satun, Sing Buri, Sisaket, Songkhla,
  Sukhothai, Suphan Buri, Surat Thani, Surin, Tak, Trang, Trat, Ubon
  Ratchathani, Udon Thani, Uthai Thani, Uttaradit, Yala, Yasothon

Timor-Leste
  13 administrative districts; Aileu, Ainaro, Baucau,
  Bobonaro (Maliana), Cova-Lima (Suai), Dili, Ermera, Lautem (Los
  Palos), Liquica, Manatuto, Manufahi (Same), Oecussi (Ambeno),
  Viqueque

Togo
  5 regions (regions, singular - region); Centrale, Kara,
  Maritime, Plateaux, Savanes

Tokelau
  none (territory of New Zealand)

Tonga
  3 island groups; Ha'apai, Tongatapu, Vava'u

Trinidad and Tobago
  9 regional corporations, 2 city corporations, 3
  borough corporations, 1 ward
  regional corporations: Couva/Tabaquite/Talparo, Diego Martin,
  Mayaro/Rio Claro, Penal/Debe, Princes Town, Sangre Grande, San
  Juan/Laventille, Siparia, Tunapuna/Piarco
  city corporations: Port-of-Spain, San Fernando
  borough corporations: Arima, Chaguanas, Point Fortin
  ward: Tobago

Tunisia
  24 governorates; Ariana (Aryanah), Beja (Bajah), Ben Arous
  (Bin 'Arus), Bizerte (Banzart), Gabes (Qabis), Gafsa (Qafsah),
  Jendouba (Jundubah), Kairouan (Al Qayrawan), Kasserine (Al Qasrayn),
  Kebili (Qibili), Kef (Al Kaf), Mahdia (Al Mahdiyah), Manouba
  (Manubah), Medenine (Madanin), Monastir (Al Munastir), Nabeul
  (Nabul), Sfax (Safaqis), Sidi Bou Zid (Sidi Bu Zayd), Siliana
  (Silyanah), Sousse (Susah), Tataouine (Tatawin), Tozeur (Tawzar),
  Tunis, Zaghouan (Zaghwan)

Turkey
  81 provinces (iller, singular - ili); Adana, Adiyaman,
  Afyonkarahisar, Agri, Aksaray, Amasya, Ankara, Antalya, Ardahan,
  Artvin, Aydin, Balikesir, Bartin, Batman, Bayburt, Bilecik, Bingol,
  Bitlis, Bolu, Burdur, Bursa, Canakkale, Cankiri, Corum, Denizli,
  Diyarbakir, Duzce, Edirne, Elazig, Erzincan, Erzurum, Eskisehir,
  Gaziantep, Giresun, Gumushane, Hakkari, Hatay, Icel (Mersin), Igdir,
  Isparta, Istanbul, Izmir (Smyrna), Kahramanmaras, Karabuk, Karaman,
  Kars, Kastamonu, Kayseri, Kilis, Kirikkale, Kirklareli, Kirsehir,
  Kocaeli, Konya, Kutahya, Malatya, Manisa, Mardin, Mugla, Mus,
  Nevsehir, Nigde, Ordu, Osmaniye, Rize, Sakarya, Samsun, Sanliurfa,
  Siirt, Sinop, Sirnak, Sivas, Tekirdag, Tokat, Trabzon (Trebizond),
  Tunceli, Usak, Van, Yalova, Yozgat, Zonguldak

Turkmenistan
  5 provinces (welayatlar, singular - welayat) and 1
  independent city*: Ahal Welayaty (Anew), Ashgabat*, Balkan Welayaty
  (Balkanabat), Dashoguz Welayaty, Lebap Welayaty (Turkmenabat), Mary
  Welayaty
  note: administrative divisions have the same names as their
  administrative centers (exceptions have the administrative center
  name following in parentheses)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Tuvalu
  none

Uganda
  56 districts; Adjumani, Apac, Arua, Bugiri, Bundibugyo,
  Bushenyi, Busia, Gulu, Hoima, Iganga, Jinja, Kabale, Kabarole,
  Kaberamaido, Kalangala, Kampala, Kamuli, Kamwenge, Kanungu,
  Kapchorwa, Kasese, Katakwi, Kayunga, Kibale, Kiboga, Kisoro, Kitgum,
  Kotido, Kumi, Kyenjojo, Lira, Luwero, Masaka, Masindi, Mayuge,
  Mbale, Mbarara, Moroto, Moyo, Mpigi, Mubende, Mukono, Nakapiripirit,
  Nakasongola, Nebbi, Ntungamo, Pader, Pallisa, Rakai, Rukungiri,
  Sembabule, Sironko, Soroti, Tororo, Wakiso, Yumbe
  note: as of a July 2005, 13 new districts were reportedly added
  bringing the total up to 69; the new districts are Amolatar, Amuria,
  Budaka, Butaleja, Ibanda, Kaabong, Kabingo, Kaliro, Kiruhura,
  Koboko, Manafwa, Mityana, Nakaseke; a total of ten more districts
  are in the process of being added

Ukraine
  24 provinces (oblasti, singular - oblast'), 1 autonomous
  republic* (avtonomna respublika), and 2 municipalities (mista,
  singular - misto) with oblast status**; Cherkasy, Chernihiv,
  Chernivtsi, Crimea or Avtonomna Respublika Krym* (Simferopol'),
  Dnipropetrovs'k, Donets'k, Ivano-Frankivs'k, Kharkiv, Kherson,
  Khmel'nyts'kyy, Kirovohrad, Kyiv**, Kyiv, Luhans'k, L'viv,
  Mykolayiv, Odesa, Poltava, Rivne, Sevastopol'**, Sumy, Ternopil',
  Vinnytsya, Volyn' (Luts'k), Zakarpattya (Uzhhorod), Zaporizhzhya,
  Zhytomyr
  note: administrative divisions have the same names as their
  administrative centers (exceptions have the administrative center
  name following in parentheses)

United Arab Emirates
  7 emirates (imarat, singular - imarah); Abu
  Zaby (Abu Dhabi), 'Ajman, Al Fujayrah, Ash Shariqah (Sharjah),
  Dubayy (Dubai), Ra's al Khaymah, Umm al Qaywayn (Quwayn)

United Kingdom
  England: 34 two-tier counties, 32 London boroughs and
  1 City of London or Greater London, 36 metropolitan counties, 46
  unitary authorities
  two-tier counties: Bedfordshire, Buckinghamshire, Cambridgeshire,
  Cheshire, Cornwall and Isles of Scilly, Cumbria, Derbyshire, Devon,
  Dorset, Durham, East Sussex, Essex, Gloucestershire, Hampshire,
  Hertfordshire, Kent, Lancashire, Leicestershire, Lincolnshire,
  Norfolk, North Yorkshire, Northamptonshire, Northumberland,
  Nottinghamshire, Oxfordshire, Shropshire, Somerset, Staffordshire,
  Suffolk, Surrey, Warwickshire, West Sussex, Wiltshire, Worcestershire
  London boroughs and City of London or Greater London: Barking and
  Dagenham, Barnet, Bexley, Brent, Bromley, Camden, Croydon, Ealing,
  Enfield, Greenwich, Hackney, Hammersmith and Fulham, Haringey,
  Harrow, Havering, Hillingdon, Hounslow, Islington, Kensington and
  Chelsea, Kingston upon Thames, Lambeth, Lewisham, City of London,
  Merton, Newham, Redbridge, Richmond upon Thames, Southwark, Sutton,
  Tower Hamlets, Waltham Forest, Wandsworth, Westminster
  metropolitan counties: Barnsley, Birmingham, Bolton, Bradford, Bury,
  Calderdale, Coventry, Doncaster, Dudley, Gateshead, Kirklees,
  Knowlsey, Leeds, Liverpool, Manchester, Newcastle upon Tyne, North
  Tyneside, Oldham, Rochdale, Rotherham, Salford, Sandwell, Sefton,
  Sheffield, Solihull, South Tyneside, St. Helens, Stockport,
  Sunderland, Tameside, Trafford, Wakefield, Walsall, Wigan, Wirral,
  Wolverhampton
  unitary authorities: Bath and North East Somerset, Blackburn with
  Darwen, Blackpool, Bournemouth, Bracknell Forest, Brighton and Hove,
  City of Bristol, Darlington, Derby, East Riding of Yorkshire,
  Halton, Hartlepool, County of Herefordshire, Isle of Wight, City of
  Kingston upon Hull, Leicester, Luton, Medway, Middlesbrough, Milton
  Keynes, North East Lincolnshire, North Lincolnshire, North Somerset,
  Nottingham, Peterborough, Plymouth, Poole, Portsmouth, Reading,
  Redcar and Cleveland, Rutland, Slough, South Gloucestershire,
  Southampton, Southend-on-Sea, Stockton-on-Tees, Stoke-on-Trent,
  Swindon, Telford and Wrekin, Thurrock, Torbay, Warrington, West
  Berkshire, Windsor and Maidenhead, Wokingham, York
  Northern Ireland: 26 district council areas
  district council areas: Antrim, Ards, Armagh, Ballymena, Ballymoney,
  Banbridge, Belfast, Carrickfergus, Castlereagh, Coleraine,
  Cookstown, Craigavon, Derry, Down, Dungannon, Fermanagh, Larne,
  Limavady, Lisburn, Magherafelt, Moyle, Newry and Mourne,
  Newtownabbey, North Down, Omagh, Strabane
  Scotland: 32 unitary authorities
  unitary authorities: Aberdeen City, Aberdeenshire, Angus, Argyll and
  Bute, Clackmannanshire, Dumfries and Galloway, Dundee City, East
  Ayrshire, East Dunbartonshire, East Lothian, East Renfrewshire, City
  of Edinburgh, Eilean Siar (Western Isles), Falkirk, Fife, Glasgow
  City, Highland, Inverclyde, Midlothian, Moray, North Ayrshire, North
  Lanarkshire, Orkney Islands, Perth and Kinross, Renfrewshire,
  Shetland Islands, South Ayrshire, South Lanarkshire, Stirling, The
  Scottish Borders, West Dunbartonshire, West Lothian
  Wales: 22 unitary authorities
  unitary authorities: Blaenau Gwent; Bridgend; Caerphilly; Cardiff;
  Carmarthenshire; Ceredigion; Conwy; Denbighshire; Flintshire;
  Gwynedd; Isle of Anglesey; Merthyr Tydfil; Monmouthshire; Neath Port
  Talbot; Newport; Pembrokeshire; Powys; Rhondda, Cynon, Taff;
  Swansea; The Vale of Glamorgan; Torfaen; Wrexham

United States
  50 states and 1 district*; Alabama, Alaska, Arizona,
  Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, District of
  Columbia*, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa,
  Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts,
  Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska,
  Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North
  Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode
  Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah,
  Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, Wyoming

Uruguay
  19 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento);
  Artigas, Canelones, Cerro Largo, Colonia, Durazno, Flores, Florida,
  Lavalleja, Maldonado, Montevideo, Paysandu, Rio Negro, Rivera,
  Rocha, Salto, San Jose, Soriano, Tacuarembo, Treinta y Tres

Uzbekistan
  12 provinces (viloyatlar, singular - viloyat), 1
  autonomous republic* (respublika), and 1 city** (shahar); Andijon
  Viloyati, Buxoro Viloyati, Farg'ona Viloyati, Jizzax Viloyati,
  Namangan Viloyati, Navoiy Viloyati, Qashqadaryo Viloyati (Qarshi),
  Qoraqalpog'iston Respublikasi [Karakalpakstan]* (Nukus), Samarqand
  Viloyati, Sirdaryo Viloyati (Guliston), Surxondaryo Viloyati
  (Termiz), Toshkent Shahri**, Toshkent Viloyati, Xorazm Viloyati
  (Urganch)
  note: administrative divisions have the same names as their
  administrative centers (exceptions have the administrative center
  name following in parentheses)

Vanuatu
  6 provinces; Malampa, Penama, Sanma, Shefa, Tafea, Torba

Venezuela
  23 states (estados, singular - estado), 1 capital
  district* (distrito capital), and 1 federal dependency**
  (dependencia federal); Amazonas, Anzoategui, Apure, Aragua, Barinas,
  Bolivar, Carabobo, Cojedes, Delta Amacuro, Dependencias Federales**,
  Distrito Federal*, Falcon, Guarico, Lara, Merida, Miranda, Monagas,
  Nueva Esparta, Portuguesa, Sucre, Tachira, Trujillo, Vargas,
  Yaracuy, Zulia
  note: the federal dependency consists of 11 federally controlled
  island groups with a total of 72 individual islands

Vietnam
  59 provinces (tinh, singular and plural) and 5
  municipalities (thanh pho, singular and plural)
  provinces: An Giang, Bac Giang, Bac Kan, Bac Lieu, Bac Ninh, Ba
  Ria-Vung Tau, Ben Tre, Binh Dinh, Binh Duong, Binh Phuoc, Binh
  Thuan, Ca Mau, Cao Bang, Dac Lak, Dac Nong, Dien Bien, Dong Nai,
  Dong Thap, Gia Lai, Ha Giang, Ha Nam, Ha Tay, Ha Tinh, Hai Duong,
  Hau Giang, Hoa Binh, Hung Yen, Khanh Hoa, Kien Giang, Kon Tum, Lai
  Chau, Lam Dong, Lang Son, Lao Cai, Long An, Nam Dinh, Nghe An, Ninh
  Binh, Ninh Thuan, Phu Tho, Phu Yen, Quang Binh, Quang Nam, Quang
  Ngai, Quang Ninh, Quang Tri, Soc Trang, Son La, Tay Ninh, Thai Binh,
  Thai Nguyen, Thanh Hoa, Thua Thien-Hue, Tien Giang, Tra Vinh, Tuyen
  Quang, Vinh Long, Vinh Phuc, Yen Bai
  municipalities: Can Tho, Da Nang, Hai Phong, Ha Noi, Ho Chi Minh

Virgin Islands
  none (territory of the US); there are no first-order
  administrative divisions as defined by the US Government, but there
  are three islands at the second order; Saint Croix, Saint John,
  Saint Thomas

Wallis and Futuna
  none (overseas territory of France); there are no
  first-order administrative divisions as defined by the US
  Government, but there are three kingdoms at the second order named
  Alo, Sigave, Wallis

Western Sahara
  none (under de facto control of Morocco)

World
  266 nations, dependent areas, and other entities

Yemen
  19 governorates (muhafazat, singular - muhafazah); Abyan,
  'Adan, Ad Dali', Al Bayda', Al Hudaydah, Al Jawf, Al Mahrah, Al
  Mahwit, 'Amran, Dhamar, Hadramawt, Hajjah, Ibb, Lahij, Ma'rib,
  Sa'dah, San'a', Shabwah, Ta'izz
  note: for electoral and administrative purposes, the capital city of
  Sanaa is treated as an additional governorate

Zambia
  9 provinces; Central, Copperbelt, Eastern, Luapula, Lusaka,
  Northern, North-Western, Southern, Western

Zimbabwe
  8 provinces and 2 cities* with provincial status;
  Bulawayo*, Harare*, Manicaland, Mashonaland Central, Mashonaland
  East, Mashonaland West, Masvingo, Matabeleland North, Matabeleland
  South, Midlands

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2052  Agriculture - products


Afghanistan
  opium, wheat, fruits, nuts; wool, mutton, sheepskins,
  lambskins

Albania
  wheat, corn, potatoes, vegetables, fruits, sugar beets,
  grapes; meat, dairy products

Algeria
  wheat, barley, oats, grapes, olives, citrus, fruits; sheep,
  cattle

American Samoa
  bananas, coconuts, vegetables, taro, breadfruit,
  yams, copra, pineapples, papayas; dairy products, livestock

Andorra
  small quantities of rye, wheat, barley, oats, vegetables;
  sheep

Angola
  bananas, sugarcane, coffee, sisal, corn, cotton, manioc
  (tapioca), tobacco, vegetables, plantains; livestock; forest
  products; fish

Anguilla
  small quantities of tobacco, vegetables; cattle raising

Antigua and Barbuda
  cotton, fruits, vegetables, bananas, coconuts,
  cucumbers, mangoes, sugarcane; livestock

Argentina
  sunflower seeds, lemons, soybeans, grapes, corn, tobacco,
  peanuts, tea, wheat; livestock

Armenia
  fruit (especially grapes), vegetables; livestock

Aruba
  aloes; livestock; fish

Australia
  wheat, barley, sugarcane, fruits, cattle, sheep, poultry

Austria
  grains, potatoes, sugar beets, wine, fruit; dairy products,
  cattle, pigs, poultry; lumber

Azerbaijan
  cotton, grain, rice, grapes, fruit, vegetables, tea,
  tobacco; cattle, pigs, sheep, goats

Bahamas, The
  citrus, vegetables; poultry

Bahrain
  fruit, vegetables; poultry, dairy products; shrimp, fish

Bangladesh
  rice, jute, tea, wheat, sugarcane, potatoes, tobacco,
  pulses, oilseeds, spices, fruit; beef, milk, poultry

Barbados
  sugarcane, vegetables, cotton

Belarus
  grain, potatoes, vegetables, sugar beets, flax; beef, milk

Belgium
  sugar beets, fresh vegetables, fruits, grain, tobacco; beef,
  veal, pork, milk

Belize
  bananas, cacao, citrus, sugar; fish, cultured shrimp; lumber;
  garments

Benin
  cotton, corn, cassava (tapioca), yams, beans, palm oil,
  peanuts, cashews; livestock

Bermuda
  bananas, vegetables, citrus, flowers; dairy products, honey

Bhutan
  rice, corn, root crops, citrus, foodgrains; dairy products,
  eggs

Bolivia
  soybeans, coffee, coca, cotton, corn, sugarcane, rice,
  potatoes; timber

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  wheat, corn, fruits, vegetables; livestock

Botswana
  livestock, sorghum, maize, millet, beans, sunflowers,
  groundnuts

Brazil
  coffee, soybeans, wheat, rice, corn, sugarcane, cocoa,
  citrus; beef

British Virgin Islands
  fruits, vegetables; livestock, poultry; fish

Brunei
  rice, vegetables, fruits; chickens, water buffalo, cattle,
  goats, eggs

Bulgaria
  vegetables, fruits, tobacco, wine, wheat, barley,
  sunflowers, sugar beets; livestock

Burkina Faso
  cotton, peanuts, shea nuts, sesame, sorghum, millet,
  corn, rice; livestock

Burma
  rice, pulses, beans, sesame, groundnuts, sugarcane; hardwood;
  fish and fish products

Burundi
  coffee, cotton, tea, corn, sorghum, sweet potatoes, bananas,
  manioc (tapioca); beef, milk, hides

Cambodia
  rice, rubber, corn, vegetables, cashews, tapioca

Cameroon
  coffee, cocoa, cotton, rubber, bananas, oilseed, grains,
  root starches; livestock; timber

Canada
  wheat, barley, oilseed, tobacco, fruits, vegetables; dairy
  products; forest products; fish

Cape Verde
  bananas, corn, beans, sweet potatoes, sugarcane, coffee,
  peanuts; fish

Cayman Islands
  vegetables, fruit; livestock; turtle farming

Central African Republic
  timber, cotton, coffee, tobacco, manioc
  (tapioca), yams, millet, corn, bananas; timber

Chad
  cotton, sorghum, millet, peanuts, rice, potatoes, manioc
  (tapioca); cattle, sheep, goats, camels

Chile
  grapes, apples, pears, onions, wheat, corn, oats, peaches,
  garlic, asparagus, beans; beef, poultry, wool; fish; timber

China
  rice, wheat, potatoes, corn, peanuts, tea, millet, barley,
  apples, cotton, oilseed; pork; fish

Christmas Island
  NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  vegetables, bananas, pawpaws, coconuts

Colombia
  coffee, cut flowers, bananas, rice, tobacco, corn,
  sugarcane, cocoa beans, oilseed, vegetables; forest products; shrimp

Comoros
  vanilla, cloves, ylang-ylang, perfume essences, copra,
  coconuts, bananas, cassava (tapioca)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  coffee, sugar, palm oil, rubber,
  tea, quinine, cassava (tapioca), palm oil, bananas, root crops,
  corn, fruits; wood products

Congo, Republic of the
  cassava (tapioca), sugar, rice, corn,
  peanuts, vegetables, coffee, cocoa; forest products

Cook Islands
  copra, citrus, pineapples, tomatoes, beans, pawpaws,
  bananas, yams, taro, coffee; pigs, poultry

Costa Rica
  bananas, pineapples, coffee, melons, ornamental plants,
  sugar, corn, rice, beans, potatoes; beef; timber

Cote d'Ivoire
  coffee, cocoa beans, bananas, palm kernels, corn,
  rice, manioc (tapioca), sweet potatoes, sugar, cotton, rubber; timber

Croatia
  wheat, corn, sugar beets, sunflower seed, barley, alfalfa,
  clover, olives, citrus, grapes, soybeans, potatoes; livestock, dairy
  products

Cuba
  sugar, tobacco, citrus, coffee, rice, potatoes, beans; livestock

Cyprus
  citrus, vegetables, barley, grapes, olives, vegetables;
  poultry, pork, lamb; dairy, cheese

Czech Republic
  wheat, potatoes, sugar beets, hops, fruit; pigs,
  poultry

Denmark
  barley, wheat, potatoes, sugar beets; pork, dairy products;
  fish

Djibouti
  fruits, vegetables; goats, sheep, camels, animal hides

Dominica
  bananas, citrus, mangoes, root crops, coconuts, cocoa;
  forest and fishery potential not exploited

Dominican Republic
  sugarcane, coffee, cotton, cocoa, tobacco, rice,
  beans, potatoes, corn, bananas; cattle, pigs, dairy products, beef,
  eggs

Ecuador
  bananas, coffee, cocoa, rice, potatoes, manioc (tapioca),
  plantains, sugarcane; cattle, sheep, pigs, beef, pork, dairy
  products; balsa wood; fish, shrimp

Egypt
  cotton, rice, corn, wheat, beans, fruits, vegetables; cattle,
  water buffalo, sheep, goats

El Salvador
  coffee, sugar, corn, rice, beans, oilseed, cotton,
  sorghum; beef, dairy products; shrimp

Equatorial Guinea
  coffee, cocoa, rice, yams, cassava (tapioca),
  bananas, palm oil nuts; livestock; timber

Eritrea
  sorghum, lentils, vegetables, corn, cotton, tobacco, sisal;
  livestock, goats; fish

Estonia
  potatoes, vegetables; livestock and dairy products; fish

Ethiopia
  cereals, pulses, coffee, oilseed, cotton, sugarcane,
  potatoes, qat, cut flowers; hides, cattle, sheep, goats; fish

European Union
  wheat, barley, oilseeds, sugar beets, wine, grapes;
  dairy products, cattle, sheep, pigs, poultry; fish

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  fodder and vegetable crops; sheep,
  dairy products; fish, squid

Faroe Islands
  milk, potatoes, vegetables; sheep; salmon, other fish

Fiji
  sugarcane, coconuts, cassava (tapioca), rice, sweet potatoes,
  bananas; cattle, pigs, horses, goats; fish

Finland
  barley, wheat, sugar beets, potatoes; dairy cattle; fish

France
  wheat, cereals, sugar beets, potatoes, wine grapes; beef,
  dairy products; fish

French Polynesia
  fish; coconuts, vanilla, vegetables, fruits,
  coffee; poultry, beef, dairy products

Gabon
  cocoa, coffee, sugar, palm oil, rubber; cattle; okoume (a
  tropical softwood); fish

Gambia, The
  rice, millet, sorghum, peanuts, corn, sesame, cassava
  (tapioca), palm kernels; cattle, sheep, goats

Gaza Strip
  olives, citrus, vegetables; beef, dairy products

Georgia
  citrus, grapes, tea, hazelnuts, vegetables; livestock

Germany
  potatoes, wheat, barley, sugar beets, fruit, cabbages;
  cattle, pigs, poultry

Ghana
  cocoa, rice, cassava (tapioca), peanuts, corn, shea nuts,
  bananas; timber

Gibraltar
  none

Greece
  wheat, corn, barley, sugar beets, olives, tomatoes, wine,
  tobacco, potatoes; beef, dairy products

Greenland
  forage crops, garden and greenhouse vegetables; sheep,
  reindeer; fish

Grenada
  bananas, cocoa, nutmeg, mace, citrus, avocados, root crops,
  sugarcane, corn, vegetables

Guam
  fruits, copra, vegetables; eggs, pork, poultry, beef

Guatemala
  sugarcane, corn, bananas, coffee, beans, cardamom; cattle,
  sheep, pigs, chickens

Guernsey
  tomatoes, greenhouse flowers, sweet peppers, eggplant,
  fruit; Guernsey cattle

Guinea
  rice, coffee, pineapples, palm kernels, cassava (tapioca),
  bananas, sweet potatoes; cattle, sheep, goats; timber

Guinea-Bissau
  rice, corn, beans, cassava (tapioca), cashew nuts,
  peanuts, palm kernels, cotton; timber; fish

Guyana
  sugarcane, rice, shrimp, fish, vegetable oils; beef, pork,
  poultry, dairy products

Haiti
  coffee, mangoes, sugarcane, rice, corn, sorghum; wood

Honduras
  bananas, coffee, citrus; beef; timber; shrimp, tilapia,
  lobster; corn, African palm

Hong Kong
  fresh vegetables; poultry, pork; fish

Hungary
  wheat, corn, sunflower seed, potatoes, sugar beets; pigs,
  cattle, poultry, dairy products

Iceland
  potatoes, green vegetables; mutton, dairy products; fish

India
  rice, wheat, oilseed, cotton, jute, tea, sugarcane, potatoes;
  cattle, water buffalo, sheep, goats, poultry; fish

Indonesia
  rice, cassava (tapioca), peanuts, rubber, cocoa, coffee,
  palm oil, copra; poultry, beef, pork, eggs

Iran
  wheat, rice, other grains, sugar beets, sugar cane, fruits,
  nuts, cotton; dairy products, wool; caviar

Iraq
  wheat, barley, rice, vegetables, dates, cotton; cattle, sheep,
  poultry

Ireland
  turnips, barley, potatoes, sugar beets, wheat; beef, dairy
  products

Isle of Man
  cereals, vegetables; cattle, sheep, pigs, poultry

Israel
  citrus, vegetables, cotton; beef, poultry, dairy products

Italy
  fruits, vegetables, grapes, potatoes, sugar beets, soybeans,
  grain, olives; beef, dairy products; fish

Jamaica
  sugarcane, bananas, coffee, citrus, yams, ackees,
  vegetables; poultry, goats, milk; crustaceans, mollusks

Japan
  rice, sugar beets, vegetables, fruit; pork, poultry, dairy
  products, eggs; fish

Jersey
  potatoes, cauliflower, tomatoes; beef, dairy products

Jordan
  citrus, tomatoes, cucumbers, olives; sheep, poultry, stone
  fruits, strawberries, dairy

Kazakhstan
  grain (mostly spring wheat), cotton; livestock

Kenya
  tea, coffee, corn, wheat, sugarcane, fruit, vegetables; dairy
  products, beef, pork, poultry, eggs

Kiribati
  copra, taro, breadfruit, sweet potatoes, vegetables; fish

Korea, North
  rice, corn, potatoes, soybeans, pulses; cattle, pigs,
  pork, eggs

Korea, South
  rice, root crops, barley, vegetables, fruit; cattle,
  pigs, chickens, milk, eggs; fish

Kosovo
  NA

Kuwait
  practically no crops; fish

Kyrgyzstan
  tobacco, cotton, potatoes, vegetables, grapes, fruits and
  berries; sheep, goats, cattle, wool

Laos
  sweet potatoes, vegetables, corn, coffee, sugarcane, tobacco,
  cotton, tea, peanuts, rice; water buffalo, pigs, cattle, poultry

Latvia
  grain, sugar beets, potatoes, vegetables; beef, pork, milk,
  eggs; fish

Lebanon
  citrus, grapes, tomatoes, apples, vegetables, potatoes,
  olives, tobacco; sheep, goats

Lesotho
  corn, wheat, pulses, sorghum, barley; livestock

Liberia
  rubber, coffee, cocoa, rice, cassava (tapioca), palm oil,
  sugarcane, bananas; sheep, goats; timber

Libya
  wheat, barley, olives, dates, citrus, vegetables, peanuts,
  soybeans; cattle

Liechtenstein
  wheat, barley, corn, potatoes; livestock, dairy
  products

Lithuania
  grain, potatoes, sugar beets, flax, vegetables; beef,
  milk, eggs; fish

Luxembourg
  wine, grapes, barley, oats, potatoes, wheat, fruits;
  dairy products, livestock products

Macau
  only 2% of land area is cultivated, mainly by vegetable
  growers; fishing, mostly for crustaceans, is important; some of the
  catch is exported to Hong Kong

Macedonia
  grapes, wine, tobacco, vegetables, fruits; milk, eggs

Madagascar
  coffee, vanilla, sugarcane, cloves, cocoa, rice, cassava
  (tapioca), beans, bananas, peanuts; livestock products

Malawi
  tobacco, sugarcane, cotton, tea, corn, potatoes, cassava
  (tapioca), sorghum, pulses, groundnuts, Macadamia nuts; cattle, goats

Malaysia
  Peninsular Malaysia - rubber, palm oil, cocoa, rice; Sabah
  - subsistence crops, rubber, timber, coconuts, rice; Sarawak -
  rubber, pepper, timber

Maldives
  coconuts, corn, sweet potatoes; fish

Mali
  cotton, millet, rice, corn, vegetables, peanuts; cattle, sheep,
  goats

Malta
  potatoes, cauliflower, grapes, wheat, barley, tomatoes,
  citrus, cut flowers, green peppers; pork, milk, poultry, eggs

Marshall Islands
  coconuts, tomatoes, melons, taro, breadfruit,
  fruits; pigs, chickens

Mauritania
  dates, millet, sorghum, rice, corn; cattle, sheep

Mauritius
  sugarcane, tea, corn, potatoes, bananas, pulses; cattle,
  goats; fish

Mayotte
  vanilla, ylang-ylang (perfume essence), coffee, copra, fish,
  livestock

Mexico
  corn, wheat, soybeans, rice, beans, cotton, coffee, fruit,
  tomatoes; beef, poultry, dairy products; wood products

Micronesia, Federated States of
  black pepper, tropical fruits and
  vegetables, coconuts, bananas, cassava (tapioca), sakau (kava),
  betel nuts, sweet potatoes; pigs, chickens; fish

Moldova
  vegetables, fruits, wine, grain, sugar beets, sunflower
  seed, tobacco; beef, milk

Monaco
  none

Mongolia
  wheat, barley, vegetables, forage crops; sheep, goats,
  cattle, camels, horses

Montenegro
  grains, tobacco, potatoes, citrus fruits, olives, grapes;
  sheepherding; commercial fishing negligible

Montserrat
  cabbages, carrots, cucumbers, tomatoes, onions, peppers;
  livestock products

Morocco
  barley, wheat, citrus, wine, vegetables, olives; livestock

Mozambique
  cotton, cashew nuts, sugarcane, tea, cassava (tapioca),
  corn, coconuts, sisal, citrus and tropical fruits, potatoes,
  sunflowers; beef, poultry

Namibia
  millet, sorghum, peanuts, grapes; livestock; fish

Nauru
  coconuts

Nepal
  rice, corn, wheat, sugarcane, jute, root crops; milk, water
  buffalo meat

Netherlands
  grains, potatoes, sugar beets, fruits, vegetables;
  livestock

Netherlands Antilles
  aloes, sorghum, peanuts, vegetables, tropical
  fruit

New Caledonia
  vegetables; beef, deer, other livestock products; fish

New Zealand
  dairy products, lamb and mutton; wheat, barley,
  potatoes, pulses, fruits, vegetables; wool, beef; fish

Nicaragua
  coffee, bananas, sugarcane, cotton, rice, corn, tobacco,
  sesame, soya, beans; beef, veal, pork, poultry, dairy products;
  shrimp, lobsters

Niger
  cowpeas, cotton, peanuts, millet, sorghum, cassava (tapioca),
  rice; cattle, sheep, goats, camels, donkeys, horses, poultry

Nigeria
  cocoa, peanuts, palm oil, corn, rice, sorghum, millet,
  cassava (tapioca), yams, rubber; cattle, sheep, goats, pigs; timber;
  fish

Niue
  coconuts, passion fruit, honey, limes, taro, yams, cassava
  (tapioca), sweet potatoes; pigs, poultry, beef cattle

Norfolk Island
  Norfolk Island pine seed, Kentia palm seed, cereals,
  vegetables, fruit; cattle, poultry

Northern Mariana Islands
  coconuts, fruits, vegetables; cattle

Norway
  barley, wheat, potatoes; pork, beef, veal, milk; fish

Oman
  dates, limes, bananas, alfalfa, vegetables; camels, cattle; fish

Pakistan
  cotton, wheat, rice, sugarcane, fruits, vegetables; milk,
  beef, mutton, eggs

Palau
  coconuts, copra, cassava (tapioca), sweet potatoes; fish

Panama
  bananas, rice, corn, coffee, sugarcane, vegetables;
  livestock; shrimp

Papua New Guinea
  coffee, cocoa, copra, palm kernels, tea, sugar,
  rubber, sweet potatoes, fruit, vegetables, vanilla; shell fish,
  poultry, pork

Paraguay
  cotton, sugarcane, soybeans, corn, wheat, tobacco, cassava
  (tapioca), fruits, vegetables; beef, pork, eggs, milk; timber

Peru
  asparagus, coffee, cotton, sugarcane, rice, potatoes, corn,
  plantains, grapes, oranges, coca; poultry, beef, dairy products;
  fish, guinea pigs

Philippines
  sugarcane, coconuts, rice, corn, bananas, cassavas,
  pineapples, mangoes; pork, eggs, beef; fish

Pitcairn Islands
  honey; wide variety of fruits and vegetables;
  goats, chickens, fish

Poland
  potatoes, fruits, vegetables, wheat; poultry, eggs, pork,
  dairy

Portugal
  grain, potatoes, tomatoes, olives, grapes; sheep, cattle,
  goats, swine, poultry, dairy products; fish

Puerto Rico
  sugarcane, coffee, pineapples, plantains, bananas;
  livestock products, chickens

Qatar
  fruits, vegetables; poultry, dairy products, beef; fish

Romania
  wheat, corn, barley, sugar beets, sunflower seed, potatoes,
  grapes; eggs, sheep

Russia
  grain, sugar beets, sunflower seed, vegetables, fruits; beef,
  milk

Rwanda
  coffee, tea, pyrethrum (insecticide made from
  chrysanthemums), bananas, beans, sorghum, potatoes; livestock

Saint Helena
  coffee, corn, potatoes, vegetables; timber; fish,
  lobster (on Tristan da Cunha); livestock

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  sugarcane, rice, yams, vegetables, bananas;
  fish

Saint Lucia
  bananas, coconuts, vegetables, citrus, root crops, cocoa

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  vegetables; poultry, cattle, sheep, pigs;
  fish

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  bananas, coconuts, sweet potatoes,
  spices; small numbers of cattle, sheep, pigs, goats; fish

Samoa
  coconuts, bananas, taro, yams, coffee, cocoa

San Marino
  wheat, grapes, corn, olives; cattle, pigs, horses, beef,
  cheese, hides

Sao Tome and Principe
  cocoa, coconuts, palm kernels, copra,
  cinnamon, pepper, coffee, bananas, papayas, beans; poultry; fish

Saudi Arabia
  wheat, barley, tomatoes, melons, dates, citrus; mutton,
  chickens, eggs, milk

Senegal
  peanuts, millet, corn, sorghum, rice, cotton, tomatoes,
  green vegetables; cattle, poultry, pigs; fish

Serbia
  wheat, maize, sugar beets, sunflower, raspberries, beef,
  pork, milk

Seychelles
  coconuts, cinnamon, vanilla, sweet potatoes, cassava
  (tapioca), bananas; poultry; tuna

Sierra Leone
  rice, coffee, cocoa, palm kernels, palm oil, peanuts;
  poultry, cattle, sheep, pigs; fish

Singapore
  rubber, copra, fruit, orchids, vegetables; poultry, eggs;
  fish, ornamental fish

Slovakia
  grains, potatoes, sugar beets, hops, fruit; pigs, cattle,
  poultry; forest products

Slovenia
  potatoes, hops, wheat, sugar beets, corn, grapes; cattle,
  sheep, poultry

Solomon Islands
  cocoa beans, coconuts, palm kernels, rice, potatoes,
  vegetables, fruit; timber; cattle, pigs; fish

Somalia
  bananas, sorghum, corn, coconuts, rice, sugarcane, mangoes,
  sesame seeds, beans; cattle, sheep, goats; fish

South Africa
  corn, wheat, sugarcane, fruits, vegetables; beef,
  poultry, mutton, wool, dairy products

Spain
  grain, vegetables, olives, wine grapes, sugar beets, citrus;
  beef, pork, poultry, dairy products; fish

Sri Lanka
  rice, sugarcane, grains, pulses, oilseed, spices, tea,
  rubber, coconuts; milk, eggs, hides, beef; fish

Sudan
  cotton, groundnuts (peanuts), sorghum, millet, wheat, gum
  arabic, sugarcane, cassava (tapioca), mangos, papaya, bananas, sweet
  potatoes, sesame; sheep, livestock

Suriname
  paddy rice, bananas, palm kernels, coconuts, plantains,
  peanuts; beef, chickens; shrimp; forest products

Swaziland
  sugarcane, cotton, corn, tobacco, rice, citrus,
  pineapples, sorghum, peanuts; cattle, goats, sheep

Sweden
  barley, wheat, sugar beets; meat, milk

Switzerland
  grains, fruits, vegetables; meat, eggs

Syria
  wheat, barley, cotton, lentils, chickpeas, olives, sugar
  beets; beef, mutton, eggs, poultry, milk

Taiwan
  rice, corn, vegetables, fruit, tea; pigs, poultry, beef,
  milk; fish

Tajikistan
  cotton, grain, fruits, grapes, vegetables; cattle, sheep,
  goats

Tanzania
  coffee, sisal, tea, cotton, pyrethrum (insecticide made
  from chrysanthemums), cashew nuts, tobacco, cloves, corn, wheat,
  cassava (tapioca), bananas, fruits, vegetables; cattle, sheep, goats

Thailand
  rice, cassava (tapioca), rubber, corn, sugarcane, coconuts,
  soybeans

Timor-Leste
  coffee, rice, corn, cassava, sweet potatoes, soybeans,
  cabbage, mangoes, bananas, vanilla

Togo
  coffee, cocoa, cotton, yams, cassava (tapioca), corn, beans,
  rice, millet, sorghum; livestock; fish

Tokelau
  coconuts, copra, breadfruit, papayas, bananas; pigs,
  poultry, goats; fish

Tonga
  squash, coconuts, copra, bananas, vanilla beans, cocoa,
  coffee, ginger, black pepper; fish

Trinidad and Tobago
  cocoa, rice, citrus, coffee, vegetables; poultry

Tunisia
  olives, olive oil, grain, tomatoes, citrus fruit, sugar
  beets, dates, almonds; beef, dairy products

Turkey
  tobacco, cotton, grain, olives, sugar beets, pulse, citrus;
  livestock

Turkmenistan
  cotton, grain; livestock

Turks and Caicos Islands
  corn, beans, cassava (tapioca), citrus
  fruits; fish

Tuvalu
  coconuts; fish

Uganda
  coffee, tea, cotton, tobacco, cassava (tapioca), potatoes,
  corn, millet, pulses, cut flowers; beef, goat meat, milk, poultry

Ukraine
  grain, sugar beets, sunflower seeds, vegetables; beef, milk

United Arab Emirates
  dates, vegetables, watermelons; poultry, eggs,
  dairy products; fish

United Kingdom
  cereals, oilseed, potatoes, vegetables; cattle,
  sheep, poultry; fish

United States
  wheat, corn, other grains, fruits, vegetables, cotton;
  beef, pork, poultry, dairy products; fish; forest products

Uruguay
  rice, wheat, soybeans, barley; livestock, beef; fish;
  forestry

Uzbekistan
  cotton, vegetables, fruits, grain; livestock

Vanuatu
  copra, coconuts, cocoa, coffee, taro, yams, fruits,
  vegetables; beef; fish

Venezuela
  corn, sorghum, sugarcane, rice, bananas, vegetables,
  coffee; beef, pork, milk, eggs; fish

Vietnam
  paddy rice, coffee, rubber, cotton, tea, pepper, soybeans,
  cashews, sugar cane, peanuts, bananas; poultry; fish, seafood

Virgin Islands
  fruit, vegetables, sorghum; Senepol cattle

Wallis and Futuna
  breadfruit, yams, taro, bananas; pigs, goats; fish

West Bank
  olives, citrus, vegetables; beef, dairy products

Western Sahara
  fruits and vegetables (grown in the few oases);
  camels, sheep, goats (kept by nomads); fish

Yemen
  grain, fruits, vegetables, pulses, qat, coffee, cotton; dairy
  products, livestock (sheep, goats, cattle, camels), poultry; fish

Zambia
  corn, sorghum, rice, peanuts, sunflower seed, vegetables,
  flowers, tobacco, cotton, sugarcane, cassava (tapioca), coffee;
  cattle, goats, pigs, poultry, milk, eggs, hides

Zimbabwe
  corn, cotton, tobacco, wheat, coffee, sugarcane, peanuts;
  sheep, goats, pigs

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2053  Airports


Afghanistan
  46 (2007)

Albania
  11 (2007)

Algeria
  150 (2007)

American Samoa
  3 (2007)

Angola
  232 (2007)

Anguilla
  3 (2007)

Antarctica
  27 (2008)

Antigua and Barbuda
  3 (2007)

Argentina
  1,272 (2007)

Armenia
  12 (2007)

Aruba
  1 (2007)

Australia
  461 (2007)

Austria
  55 (2007)

Azerbaijan
  35 (2007)

Bahamas, The
  62 (2007)

Bahrain
  3 (2007)

Bangladesh
  16 (2007)

Barbados
  1 (2007)

Belarus
  67 (2007)

Belgium
  43 (2007)

Belize
  44 (2007)

Benin
  5 (2007)

Bermuda
  1 (2007)

Bhutan
  2 (2007)

Bolivia
  1,061 (2007)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  28 (2007)

Botswana
  85 (2007)

Brazil
  4,263 (2007)

British Indian Ocean Territory
  1 (2007)

British Virgin Islands
  3 (2007)

Brunei
  2 (2007)

Bulgaria
  214 (2007)

Burkina Faso
  33 (2007)

Burma
  86 (2007)

Burundi
  8 (2007)

Cambodia
  17 (2007)

Cameroon
  45 (2007)

Canada
  1,343 (2007)

Cape Verde
  8 (2007)

Cayman Islands
  3 (2007)

Central African Republic
  51 (2007)

Chad
  55 (2007)

Chile
  358 (2007)

China
  467 (2007)

Christmas Island
  1 (2007)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  1 (2007)

Colombia
  934 (2007)

Comoros
  4 (2007)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  237 (2007)

Congo, Republic of the
  31 (2007)

Cook Islands
  9 (2007)

Costa Rica
  151 (2007)

Cote d'Ivoire
  34 (2007)

Croatia
  68 (2007)

Cuba
  165 (2007)

Cyprus
  16 (2007)

Czech Republic
  122 (2007)

Denmark
  91 (2007)

Djibouti
  13 (2007)

Dominica
  2 (2007)

Dominican Republic
  34 (2007)

Ecuador
  406 (2007)

Egypt
  88 (2007)

El Salvador
  65 (2007)

Equatorial Guinea
  5 (2007)

Eritrea
  18 (2007)

Estonia
  19 (2007)

Ethiopia
  84 (2007)

European Union
  3,393 (2006)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  6 (2007)

Faroe Islands
  1 (2007)

Fiji
  28 (2007)

Finland
  148 (2007)

France
  476 (2007)

French Polynesia
  54 (2007)

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  4 (one each on Europa Island,
  Glorioso Islands, Juan de Nova Island, and Tromelin Island in the
  Iles Eparses district) (2006)

Gabon
  53 (2007)

Gambia, The
  1 (2007)

Gaza Strip
  2 (2007)

Georgia
  23 (2007)

Germany
  550 (2007)

Ghana
  12 (2007)

Gibraltar
  1 (2007)

Greece
  81 (2007)

Greenland
  14 (2007)

Grenada
  3 (2007)

Guam
  5 (2007)

Guatemala
  402 (2007)

Guernsey
  2 (2007)

Guinea
  16 (2007)

Guinea-Bissau
  27 (2007)

Guyana
  93 (2007)

Haiti
  14 (2007)

Honduras
  112 (2007)

Hong Kong
  2 (2007)

Hungary
  46 (2007)

Iceland
  99 (2007)

India
  346 (2007)

Indonesia
  652 (2007)

Iran
  331 (2007)

Iraq
  110 (2007)

Ireland
  34 (2007)

Isle of Man
  1 (2007)

Israel
  53 (2007)

Italy
  132 (2007)

Jamaica
  34 (2007)

Jan Mayen
  1 (2007)

Japan
  176 (2007)

Jersey
  1 (2007)

Jordan
  17 (2007)

Kazakhstan
  97 (2007)

Kenya
  225 (2007)

Kiribati
  19 (2007)

Korea, North
  77 (2007)

Korea, South
  105 (2007)

Kosovo
  10 (2008)

Kuwait
  7 (2007)

Kyrgyzstan
  30 (2007)

Laos
  42 (2007)

Latvia
  42 (2007)

Lebanon
  7 (2007)

Lesotho
  28 (2007)

Liberia
  53 (2007)

Libya
  141 (2007)

Lithuania
  87 (2007)

Luxembourg
  2 (2007)

Macau
  1 (2007)

Macedonia
  17 (2007)

Madagascar
  104 (2007)

Malawi
  39 (2007)

Malaysia
  116 (2007)

Maldives
  5 (2007)

Mali
  29 (2007)

Malta
  1 (2007)

Marshall Islands
  15 (2007)

Mauritania
  25 (2007)

Mauritius
  5 (2007)

Mayotte
  1 (2007)

Mexico
  1,834 (2007)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  6 (2007)

Moldova
  10 (2007)

Mongolia
  44 (2007)

Montenegro
  5 (2007)

Montserrat
  2 (2007)

Morocco
  60 (2007)

Mozambique
  147 (2007)

Namibia
  137 (2007)

Nauru
  1 (2007)

Nepal
  47 (2007)

Netherlands
  27 (2007)

Netherlands Antilles
  5 (2007)

New Caledonia
  25 (2007)

New Zealand
  121 (2007)

Nicaragua
  163 (2007)

Niger
  28 (2007)

Nigeria
  70 (2007)

Niue
  1 (2007)

Norfolk Island
  1 (2007)

Northern Mariana Islands
  5 (2007)

Norway
  98 (2007)

Oman
  137 (2007)

Pakistan
  146 (2007)

Palau
  3 (2007)

Panama
  116 (2007)

Papua New Guinea
  578 (2007)

Paracel Islands
  1 (2007)

Paraguay
  838 (2007)

Peru
  237 (2007)

Philippines
  255 (2007)

Poland
  123 (2007)

Portugal
  66 (2007)

Puerto Rico
  29 (2007)

Qatar
  5 (2007)

Romania
  61 (2007)

Russia
  1,260 (2007)

Rwanda
  9 (2007)

Saint Barthelemy
  1

Saint Helena
  1 (2007)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  2 (2007)

Saint Lucia
  2 (2007)

Saint Martin
  1

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  2 (2007)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  6 (2007)

Samoa
  4 (2007)

Sao Tome and Principe
  2 (2007)

Saudi Arabia
  213 (2007)

Senegal
  20 (2007)

Serbia
  39 (2007)

Seychelles
  15 (2007)

Sierra Leone
  10 (2007)

Singapore
  8 (2007)

Slovakia
  35 (2007)

Slovenia
  14 (2007)

Solomon Islands
  35 (2007)

Somalia
  67 (2007)

South Africa
  728 (2007)

Spain
  154 (2007)

Spratly Islands
  3 (2007)

Sri Lanka
  18 (2007)

Sudan
  101 (2007)

Suriname
  50 (2007)

Svalbard
  4 (2007)

Swaziland
  18 (2007)

Sweden
  250 (2007)

Switzerland
  65 (2007)

Syria
  90 (2007)

Taiwan
  41 (2007)

Tajikistan
  26 (2007)

Tanzania
  124 (2007)

Thailand
  106 (2007)

Timor-Leste
  8 (2007)

Togo
  9 (2007)

Tonga
  6 (2007)

Trinidad and Tobago
  6 (2007)

Tunisia
  30 (2007)

Turkey
  117 (2007)

Turkmenistan
  28 (2007)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  8 (2007)

Tuvalu
  1 (2007)

Uganda
  32 (2007)

Ukraine
  437 (2007)

United Arab Emirates
  39 (2007)

United Kingdom
  449 (2007)

United States
  14,947 (2007)

United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
  Baker Island: one
  abandoned World War II runway of 1,665 m covered with vegetation and
  unusable
  Howland Island: airstrip constructed in 1937 for scheduled refueling
  stop on the round-the-world flight of Amelia EARHART and Fred
  NOONAN; the aviators left Lae, New Guinea, for Howland Island but
  were never seen again; the airstrip is no longer serviceable
  Johnston Atoll: one closed and not maintained
  Kingman Reef: lagoon was used as a halfway station between Hawaii
  and American Samoa by Pan American Airways for flying boats in 1937
  and 1938
  Midway Islands: 3 - one operational (2,409 m paved); no fuel for
  sale except emergencies
  Palmyra Atoll: 1 - 1,846 m unpaved runway; privately owned (2008)

Uruguay
  60 (2007)

Uzbekistan
  54 (2007)

Vanuatu
  31 (2007)

Venezuela
  390 (2007)

Vietnam
  44 (2007)

Virgin Islands
  2 (2007)

Wake Island
  1 (2007)

Wallis and Futuna
  2 (2007)

West Bank
  3 (2007)

Western Sahara
  9 (2007)

World
  total airports - 49,024
  top ten by passengers: Atlanta - 84,846,639; Chicago - 77,028,134;
  London - 67,530,197; Tokyo - 65,810,672; Los Angeles - 61,041,066;
  Dallas/Fort Worth - 60,226,138; Paris - 56,849,567; Frankfurt -
  52,810,683; Beijing - 48,654,770; Denver - 47,325,016
  top ten by cargo (metric tons): Memphis - 3,692,081; Hong Kong -
  3,609,780; Anchorage - 2,691,395; Seoul - 2,336,572; Tokyo -
  2,280,830; Shanghai - 2,168,122; Paris - 2,130,724; Frankfurt -
  2,127,646; Louisville (US) - 1,983,032; Singapore - 1,931,881 (2006)

Yemen
  50 (2007)

Zambia
  107 (2007)

Zimbabwe
  341 (2007)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2054  Birth rate (births/1,000 population)


Afghanistan
  45.82 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Albania
  15.22 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Algeria
  17.03 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

American Samoa
  23.66 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Andorra
  10.59 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Angola
  44.09 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Anguilla
  13.11 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  16.78 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Argentina
  18.11 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Armenia
  12.53 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Aruba
  12.81 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Australia
  12.55 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Austria
  8.66 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Azerbaijan
  17.52 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Bahamas, The
  17.06 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Bahrain
  17.26 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Bangladesh
  28.86 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Barbados
  12.48 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Belarus
  9.62 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Belgium
  10.22 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Belize
  27.84 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Benin
  39.8 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Bermuda
  11.15 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Bhutan
  20.56 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Bolivia
  22.31 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  8.82 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Botswana
  22.96 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Brazil
  18.72 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  14.72 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Brunei
  18.39 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Bulgaria
  9.58 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Burkina Faso
  44.68 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Burma
  17.23 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Burundi
  41.72 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Cambodia
  25.68 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Cameroon
  34.59 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Canada
  10.29 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Cape Verde
  23.95 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Cayman Islands
  12.43 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Central African Republic
  33.13 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Chad
  41.61 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Chile
  14.82 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

China
  13.71 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Christmas Island
  NA (2008 est.)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  NA (2008 est.)

Colombia
  19.86 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Comoros
  35.78 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  43 births/1,000 population (2008
  est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  41.76 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Cook Islands
  16.71 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Costa Rica
  17.71 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  32.73 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Croatia
  9.64 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Cuba
  11.27 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Cyprus
  12.56 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Czech Republic
  8.89 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Denmark
  10.71 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Djibouti
  38.61 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Dominica
  15.73 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Dominican Republic
  22.65 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Ecuador
  21.54 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Egypt
  22.12 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

El Salvador
  25.72 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  37.04 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Eritrea
  34.94 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Estonia
  10.28 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Ethiopia
  43.97 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

European Union
  10.25 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  NA (2008 est.)

Faroe Islands
  13.25 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Fiji
  22.15 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Finland
  10.39 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

France
  12.73 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

French Polynesia
  16.16 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Gabon
  35.75 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Gambia, The
  38.36 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Gaza Strip
  37.75 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Georgia
  10.62 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Germany
  8.18 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Ghana
  29.22 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Gibraltar
  10.71 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Greece
  9.54 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Greenland
  14.87 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Grenada
  21.61 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Guam
  18.37 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Guatemala
  28.55 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Guernsey
  8.57 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Guinea
  37.84 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  36.4 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Guyana
  17.85 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Haiti
  35.69 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Honduras
  26.93 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Hong Kong
  7.37 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Hungary
  9.59 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Iceland
  13.5 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

India
  22.22 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Indonesia
  19.24 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Iran
  16.89 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Iraq
  30.77 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Ireland
  14.33 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Isle of Man
  10.86 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Israel
  20.02 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Italy
  8.36 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Jamaica
  20.04 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Japan
  7.87 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Jersey
  8.84 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Jordan
  20.13 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Kazakhstan
  16.44 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Kenya
  37.89 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Kiribati
  30.31 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Korea, North
  14.61 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Korea, South
  9.09 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Kuwait
  21.9 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  23.31 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Laos
  34.46 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Latvia
  9.62 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Lebanon
  17.61 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Lesotho
  24.41 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Liberia
  42.92 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Libya
  25.62 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Liechtenstein
  9.86 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Lithuania
  9 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Luxembourg
  11.77 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Macau
  8.69 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Macedonia
  12 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Madagascar
  38.38 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Malawi
  41.79 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Malaysia
  22.44 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Maldives
  14.84 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Mali
  49.38 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Malta
  10.33 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Marshall Islands
  31.52 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Mauritania
  40.14 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Mauritius
  14.64 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Mayotte
  39.79 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Mexico
  20.04 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  23.66 births/1,000 population (2008
  est.)

Moldova
  11.01 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Monaco
  9.09 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Mongolia
  21.09 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Montenegro
  11.17 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Montserrat
  12.01 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Morocco
  21.31 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Mozambique
  38.21 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Namibia
  23.19 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Nauru
  24.26 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Nepal
  29.92 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Netherlands
  10.53 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  14.37 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

New Caledonia
  17.39 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

New Zealand
  14.09 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Nicaragua
  23.7 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Niger
  49.62 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Nigeria
  37.23 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Niue
  NA (2008 est.)

Norfolk Island
  NA (2008 est.)

Northern Mariana Islands
  19.04 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Norway
  11.12 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Oman
  35.26 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Pakistan
  28.35 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Palau
  17.4 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Panama
  20.68 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  28.14 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Paraguay
  28.47 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Peru
  19.77 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Philippines
  26.42 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Pitcairn Islands
  NA (2008 est.)

Poland
  10.01 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Portugal
  10.45 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Puerto Rico
  12.61 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Qatar
  15.69 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Romania
  10.61 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Russia
  11.03 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Rwanda
  39.97 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Saint Helena
  11.45 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  17.73 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Saint Lucia
  15.4 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  12.92 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  15.82 births/1,000 population (2008
  est.)

Samoa
  28.2 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

San Marino
  9.74 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe
  39.12 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  28.85 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Senegal
  36.52 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Seychelles
  15.6 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Sierra Leone
  45.08 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Singapore
  8.99 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Slovakia
  10.64 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Slovenia
  8.99 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Solomon Islands
  28.48 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Somalia
  44.12 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

South Africa
  20.23 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Spain
  9.87 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Sri Lanka
  16.63 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Sudan
  34.31 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Suriname
  17.02 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Svalbard
  NA (2008 est.)

Swaziland
  26.6 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Sweden
  10.15 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Switzerland
  9.62 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Syria
  26.57 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Taiwan
  8.99 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Tajikistan
  27.18 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Tanzania
  35.12 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Thailand
  13.57 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Timor-Leste
  26.52 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Togo
  36.66 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Tokelau
  NA (2008 est.)

Tonga
  21.81 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  13.22 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Tunisia
  15.5 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Turkey
  16.15 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Turkmenistan
  25.07 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  21.12 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Tuvalu
  22.75 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Uganda
  48.15 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Ukraine
  9.55 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  16.06 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

United Kingdom
  10.65 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

United States
  14.18 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Uruguay
  14.17 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Uzbekistan
  17.99 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Vanuatu
  21.95 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Venezuela
  20.92 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Vietnam
  16.47 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Virgin Islands
  12.29 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Wallis and Futuna
  NA (2008 est.)

West Bank
  25.95 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Western Sahara
  39.95 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

World
  20.18 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Yemen
  42.42 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Zambia
  40.52 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Zimbabwe
  31.62 births/1,000 population (2008 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2055  Military branches


Afghanistan
  Afghan Armed Forces: Afghan National Army (ANA, includes
  Afghan National Army Air Corps) (2008)

Albania
  Land Forces Command (Army), Naval Forces Command, Air
  Defense Command, General Staff Headquarters (includes Logistics
  Command, Training and Doctrine Command) (2007)

Algeria
  National Popular Army (ANP; includes Land Forces), Algerian
  National Navy (MRA), Air Force (QJJ), Territorial Air Defense Force
  (2005)

Andorra
  no regular military forces, Police Service of Andorra

Angola
  Angolan Armed Forces (FAA): Army, Navy (Marinha de Guerra,
  MdG), Angolan National Air Force (FANA) (2007)

Antigua and Barbuda
  Royal Antigua and Barbuda Defense Force (2007)

Argentina
  Argentine Army (Ejercito Argentino), Navy of the Argentine
  Republic (Armada Republica; includes naval aviation and naval
  infantry), Argentine Air Force (Fuerza Aerea Argentina, FAA) (2008)

Armenia
  Armed Forces: Ground Forces, Nagorno-Karabakh Self Defense
  Force (NKSDF), Air Force and Air Defense (2008)

Aruba
  no regular indigenous military forces; the Netherlands
  maintains a detachment of marines, a frigate, and an amphibious
  combat detachment in the neighboring Netherlands Antilles (2008)

Australia
  Australian Defense Force (ADF): Australian Army, Royal
  Australian Navy, Royal Australian Air Force, Special Operations
  Command (2006)

Austria
  Land Forces (KdoLdSK), Air Forces (KdoLuSK)

Azerbaijan
  Army, Navy, Air and Air Defense Forces (2008)

Bahamas, The
  Royal Bahamian Defense Force: Land Force, Navy, Air
  Wing (2007)

Bahrain
  Bahrain Defense Forces (BDF): Ground Force (includes Air
  Defense), Naval Force, Air Force, National Guard

Bangladesh
  Bangladesh Defense Force: Bangladesh Army, Bangladesh
  Navy, Bangladesh Air Force (Bangladesh Biman Bahini, BAF) (2008)

Barbados
  Royal Barbados Defense Force: Troops Command, Barbados
  Coast Guard (2007)

Belarus
  Belarus Armed Forces: Land Force, Air and Air Defense Force
  (2008)

Belgium
  Belgian Armed Forces: Land Operations Command, Naval
  Operations Command, Air Operations Command (2008)

Belize
  Belize Defense Force (BDF): Army, BDF Air Wing, BDF Volunteer
  Guard (2007)

Benin
  Benin Armed Forces (FAB): Army (l'Arme de Terre), Benin Navy
  (Forces Navales Beninois, FNB), Benin People's Air Force (Force
  Aerienne Populaire de Benin, FAPB) (2008)

Bermuda
  Bermuda Regiment (2008)

Bhutan
  Royal Bhutan Army (includes Royal Bodyguard and Royal Bhutan
  Police) (2008)

Bolivia
  Bolivian Armed Forces: Bolivian Army (Ejercito Boliviano),
  Bolivian Navy (Armada Boliviana; includes marines), Bolivian Air
  Force (Fuerza Aerea Boliviana, FAB) (2008)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces (OSBiH):
  Army of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Air and Air Defense Forces of Bosnia
  and Herzegovina (Zrakoplovstvo i Protuzracna Obrana, ZPO) (2007)

Botswana
  Botswana Defense Force: Ground Forces, Air Wing (2008)

Brazil
  Brazilian Army, Brazilian Navy (Marinha do Brasil (MB),
  includes Naval Air and Marine Corps (Corpo de Fuzileiros Navais)),
  Brazilian Air Force (Forca Aerea Brasileira, FAB) (2008)

Brunei
  Royal Brunei Armed Forces (RBAF): Royal Brunei Land Forces,
  Royal Brunei Navy, Royal Brunei Air Force (Tentera Udara Diraja
  Brunei) (2008)

Bulgaria
  Bulgarian Armed Forces: Ground Forces, Naval Forces,
  Bulgarian Air Forces (Bulgarski Voennovazdyshni Sily, BVVS) (2008)

Burkina Faso
  Army, Air Force of Burkina Faso (Force Aerienne de
  Burkina Faso, FABF), National Gendarmerie (2008)

Burma
  Myanmar Armed Forces (Tatmadaw): Army, Navy, Air Force
  (Tatmadaw Lay) (2008)

Burundi
  National Defense Force (Forces de Defense Nationales, FDN):
  Army (includes Naval Detachment and Air Wing), Gendarmerie (2008)

Cambodia
  Royal Cambodian Armed Forces: Royal Cambodian Army, Royal
  Khmer Navy, Royal Cambodian Air Force (2008)

Cameroon
  Cameroon Armed Forces: Army, Navy (includes naval
  infantry), Air Force (Armee de l'Air du Cameroun, AAC) (2008)

Canada
  Canadian Forces: Land Forces Command (LFC), Maritime Command
  (MARCOM), Air Command (AIRCOM), Canada Command (homeland security)
  (2008)

Cape Verde
  People's Revolutionary Armed Forces (FARP): Army, Coast
  Guard (includes maritime air wing) (2007)

Cayman Islands
  no regular military forces; Royal Cayman Islands
  Police Force (2007)

Central African Republic
  Central African Armed Forces (Forces Armees
  Centrafricaines, FACA): Ground Forces, General Directorate of
  Gendarmerie Inspection (DGIG), Military Air Service, National Police
  (2008)

Chad
  Armed Forces: Chadian National Army (Armee Nationale du Tchad,
  ANT), Chadian Air Force (Force Aerienne Tchadienne, FAT),
  Gendarmerie (2008)

Chile
  Army of the Nation, Chilean Navy (Armada de Chile, includes
  naval air, marine corps, and Maritime Territory and Merchant Marine
  Directorate (Directemar)), Chilean Air Force (Fuerza Aerea de Chile,
  FACh), Carabineros Corps (Cuerpo de Carabineros) (2008)

China
  People's Liberation Army (PLA): Ground Forces, Navy (includes
  marines and naval aviation), Air Force (includes airborne forces),
  and Second Artillery Corps (strategic missile force); People's Armed
  Police (PAP); PLA Reserve Force (2008)

Colombia
  National Army (Ejercito Nacional), National Navy (Armada
  Nacional, includes Naval Aviation, Naval Infantry (Infanteria de
  Marina, Colmar), and Coast Guard), Colombian Air Force (Fuerza Aerea
  de Colombia, FAC) (2008)

Comoros
  National Development Army (AND): Comoran Security Force;
  Comoran Federal Police (2008)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  Armed Forces of the Democratic
  Republic of the Congo (Forces d'Armees de la Republique Democratique
  du Congo, FARDC): Army, National Navy (La Marine Nationale),
  Congolese Air Force (Force Aerienne Congolaise, FAC) (2008)

Congo, Republic of the
  Congolese Armed Forces (Forces Armees
  Congolaises, FAC): Army, Navy, Congolese Air Force (Armee de l'Air
  Congolaise), Gendarmerie, Special Presidential Security Guard (GSSP)
  (2008)

Cook Islands
  no regular military forces; National Police Department
  (2007)

Costa Rica
  no regular military forces; Ministry of Public Security,
  Government, and Police (2008)

Cote d'Ivoire
  Cote d'Ivoire Defense and Security Forces (FDSC):
  Army, Navy, Air Force (2006)

Croatia
  Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia (Oruzane Snage
  Republike Hrvatske, OSRH), consists of five major commands directly
  subordinate to a General Staff: Ground Forces (Hrvatska Kopnena
  Vojska, HKoV), Naval Forces (Hrvatska Ratna Mornarica, HRM), Air
  Force (Hrvatsko Ratno Zrakoplovstvo, HRZ), Joint Education and
  Training Command, Logistics Command; Military Police Force supports
  each of the three Croatian military forces (2008)

Cuba
  Revolutionary Armed Forces (Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias,
  FAR): Revolutionary Army (ER; includes Territorial Militia Troops,
  MTT), Revolutionary Navy (Marina de Guerra Revolucionaria, MGR;
  includes Marine Corps), Revolutionary Air and Air Defense Force
  (DAAFAR), Youth Labor Army (EJT) (2008)

Cyprus
  Republic of Cyprus: Greek Cypriot National Guard (Ethniki
  Forea, EF; includes air and naval elements); northern Cyprus:
  Turkish Cypriot Security Force (GKK) (2007)

Czech Republic
  Army of the Czech Republic (ACR): Joint Forces
  Command (includes Army and Air Forces), Support and Training Forces
  Command (2008)

Denmark
  Defense Command: Army Operational Command, Admiral Danish
  Fleet, Island Command Greenland, Tactical Air Command, Home Guard
  (2008)

Djibouti
  Djibouti National Army (includes Navy and Air Force)

Dominica
  no regular military forces; Commonwealth of Dominica Police
  Force (includes Coast Guard) (2008)

Dominican Republic
  Army, Navy, Air Force (Fuerza Aerea Dominicana,
  FAD) (2007)

Ecuador
  Army, Navy (includes Naval Infantry, Naval Aviation, Coast
  Guard), Air Force (Fuerza Aerea Ecuatoriana, FAE) (2007)

Egypt
  Army, Navy, Air Force, Air Defense Command

El Salvador
  Salvadoran Army (ES), Salvadoran Navy (FNES), Salvadoran
  Air Force (Fuerza Aerea Salvadorena, FAS) (2008)

Equatorial Guinea
  National Guard (Guardia Nacional (Army), with
  Coast Guard (Navy) and Air Wing) (2008)

Eritrea
  Eritrean Armed Forces: Ground Forces, Navy, Air Force (2008)

Estonia
  Estonian Defense Forces: Land Force, Navy, Air Force (Eesti
  Ohuvagi), Volunteer Defense League (Kaitseliit, KL) (2008)

Ethiopia
  Ethiopian National Defense Force (ENDF): Ground Forces,
  Ethiopian Air Force (ETAF) (2008)
  note: Ethiopia is landlocked and has no navy; following the
  secession of Eritrea, Ethiopian naval facilities remained in
  Eritrean possession

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  no regular military forces

Faroe Islands
  no regular military forces

Fiji
  Republic of Fiji Military Forces (RFMF): Land Forces, Naval
  Forces (2008)

Finland
  Finnish Defense Forces (FDF): Army, Navy (includes Coastal
  Defense Forces), Air Force (Suomen Ilmavoimat) (2007)

France
  Army (Armee de Terre; includes Marines, Foreign Legion, Army
  Light Aviation), Navy (Marine Nationale, includes Naval Air), Air
  Force (Armee de l'Air, includes Air Defense), National Gendarmerie
  (2008)

French Polynesia
  no regular military forces; Gendarmerie and
  National Police Force (2007)

Gabon
  Army, Navy, Air Force, National Gendarmerie, National Police

Gambia, The
  Office of the Chief of Defense: Gambian National Army
  (National Guard, GNA), Gambian Navy (GN) (2008)

Gaza Strip
  in accordance with the peace agreement, the Palestinian
  Authority is not permitted conventional military forces; there are,
  however, public security forces (2008)

Georgia
  Georgian Armed Forces: Land Forces, Navy (includes coast
  guard), Air and Air Defense Forces, National Guard (2008)

Germany
  Federal Armed Forces (Bundeswehr): Army (Heer), Navy
  (Deutsche Marine, includes naval air arm), Air Force (Luftwaffe),
  Central Medical Service (Zentraler Sanitaetsdienst) (2008)

Ghana
  Ghanaian Army, Ghanaian Navy, Ghanaian Air Force (2007)

Gibraltar
  Royal Gibraltar Regiment

Greece
  Hellenic Army (Ellinikos Stratos, ES), Hellenic Navy
  (Ellinikos Polemiko Navtiko, EPN), Hellenic Air Force (Elliniki
  Polimiki Aeroporia, EPA) (2007)

Greenland
  no regular military forces

Grenada
  no regular military forces; Royal Grenada Police Force
  (includes Coast Guard) (2007)

Guatemala
  Army, Navy (includes Marines), Air Force

Guinea
  Armed Forces: Army, Navy (Marine Guineenne, includes
  Marines), Air Force, Presidential Guard (2008)

Guinea-Bissau
  People's Revolutionary Armed Force (FARP): Army, Navy,
  Air Force; paramilitary force

Guyana
  Guyana Defense Force: Army (includes Coast Guard, Air Corps)
  (2007)

Haiti
  no regular military forces - small Coast Guard; the regular
  Haitian Armed Forces (FAdH) - Army, Navy, and Air Force - have been
  demobilized but still exist on paper unless they are
  constitutionally abolished (2007)

Holy See (Vatican City)
  Pontifical Swiss Guard (Corpo della Guardia
  Svizzera Pontificia) (2007)

Honduras
  Army, Navy (includes Naval Infantry), Honduran Air Force
  (Fuerza Aerea Hondurena, FAH) (2008)

Hong Kong
  no regular indigenous military forces; Hong Kong garrison
  of China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) includes elements of the
  PLA Ground Forces, PLA Navy, and PLA Air Force; these forces are
  under the direct leadership of the Central Military Commission in
  Beijing and under administrative control of the adjacent Guangzhou
  Military Region (2007)

Hungary
  Ground Forces, Hungarian Air Force (Magyar Legiero, ML)
  (2008)

Iceland
  no regular military forces; Icelandic National Police (2008)

India
  Army, Navy (includes naval air arm), Air Force (Bharatiya Vayu
  Sena), Coast Guard (2008)

Indonesia
  Indonesian Armed Forces (Tentara Nasional Indonesia, TNI):
  Army (TNI-Angkatan Darat (TNI-AD)), Navy (TNI-Angkatan Laut
  (TNI-AL); includes marines, naval air arm), Air Force (TNI-Angkatan
  Udara (TNI-AU)), National Air Defense Command (Kommando Pertahanan
  Udara Nasional (Kohanudnas)) (2008)

Iran
  Islamic Republic of Iran Regular Forces (Artesh): Ground
  Forces, Navy, Air Force of the Military of the Islamic Republic of
  Iran (Niru-ye Hava'i-ye Artesh-e Jomhuri-ye Eslami-ye Iran; includes
  air defense); Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (Sepah-e Pasdaran-e
  Enqelab-e Eslami, IRGC): Ground Forces, Navy, Air Force, Qods Force
  (special operations), and Basij Force (Popular Mobilization Army);
  Law Enforcement Forces (2008)

Iraq
  Iraqi Armed Forces: Iraqi Army (includes Iraqi Special
  Operations Force, Iraqi Intervention Force), Iraqi Navy (former
  Iraqi Coastal Defense Force), Iraqi Air Force (former Iraqi Army Air
  Corps) (2005)

Ireland
  Irish Defense Forces (Oglaigh na h-Eireann): Army (includes
  Naval Service and Air Corps (Aer-Chor na h-Eireann)) (2008)

Israel
  Israel Defense Forces (IDF), Israel Naval Forces (INF),
  Israel Air Force (IAF) (2007)

Italy
  Italian Army (Esercito Italiano, EI), Italian Navy (Marina
  Militare Italiana, MMI), Italian Air Force (Aeronautica Militare
  Italiana, AMI), Carabinieri Corps (Arma dei Carabinieri, CC) (2008)

Jamaica
  Jamaica Defense Force: Ground Forces, Coast Guard, Air Wing
  (2007)

Japan
  Japanese Ministry of Defense (MOD): Ground Self-Defense Force
  (Rikujou Jietai, GSDF), Maritime Self-Defense Force (Kaijou Jietai,
  MSDF), Air Self-Defense Force (Koku Jieitai, ASDF) (2008)

Jordan
  Jordanian Armed Forces (JAF): Royal Jordanian Land Force,
  Royal Jordanian Navy, Royal Jordanian Air Force (Al-Quwwat
  al-Jawwiya al-Malakiya al-Urduniya, RJAF), Special Operations
  Command (Socom); Public Security Directorate (normally falls under
  Ministry of Interior, but comes under JAF in wartime or crisis)
  (2008)

Kazakhstan
  Ground Forces, Naval Force, Air and Air Defense Forces,
  Republican Guard

Kenya
  Kenyan Army, Kenyan Navy, Kenyan Air Force (2008)

Kiribati
  no regular military forces (constitutionally prohibited);
  Police Force (2008)

Korea, North
  North Korean People's Army: Ground Forces, Navy, Air
  Force; civil security forces (2005)

Korea, South
  Republic of Korea Army, Navy (includes Marine Corps),
  Air Force (2008)

Kuwait
  Land Forces, Kuwaiti Navy, Kuwaiti Air Force (Al-Quwwat
  al-Jawwiya al-Kuwaitiya), National Guard (2007)

Kyrgyzstan
  Army, Air Force, National Guard (2005)

Laos
  Lao People's Armed Forces (LPAF): Lao People's Army (LPA;
  includes Riverine Force), Air Force (2008)

Latvia
  National Armed Forces (Nacionalo Brunoto Speku): Ground
  Forces, Navy (Latvijas Juras Speki; includes Coast Guard (Latvijas
  Kara Flotes)), Latvian Air Force (Latvijas Gaisa Speki), Border
  Guard, Latvian Home Guard (Latvijas Zemessardze) (2008)

Lebanon
  Lebanese Armed Forces (LAF): Army (includes Navy), Air Force
  (2008)

Lesotho
  Lesotho Defense Force (LDF): Army (includes Air Wing) (2008)

Liberia
  Armed Forces of Liberia (AFL): Army, Navy, Air Force

Libya
  Armed Peoples on Duty (APOD, Army), Libyan Arab Navy, Libyan
  Arab Air Force (Al-Quwwat al-Jawwiya al-Jamahiriya al-Arabia
  al-Libyya, LAAF) (2008)

Liechtenstein
  no regular military forces (constitutionally
  prohibited); Principality of Liechtenstein National Police
  (Landespolizei, LP) (2008)

Lithuania
  Ground Forces, Naval Force, Lithuanian Military Air
  Forces, National Defense Volunteer Forces (2005)

Luxembourg
  Army (2007)

Macau
  no regular military forces; defense is the responsibility of
  China (2008)

Macedonia
  Army of the Republic of Macedonia (ARM): Joint Operational
  Command, with subordinate Air Wing (Makedonsko Voeno
  Vozduhoplovstvo, MVV), Special Operations Regiment (2007)

Madagascar
  People's Armed Forces: Intervention Force, Development
  Force, and Aeronaval Force (navy and air); National Gendarmerie

Malawi
  Malawi Armed Forces: Army (includes Air Wing and Naval
  Detachment) (2007)

Malaysia
  Malaysian Armed Forces (Angkatan Tentera Malaysia, ATM):
  Malaysian Army (Tentera Darat Malaysia), Royal Malaysian Navy
  (Tentera Laut Diraja Malaysia, TLDM), Royal Malaysian Air Force
  (Tentera Udara Diraja Malaysia, TUDM) (2008)

Maldives
  Maldives National Defense Force (MNDF): Quick Reaction
  Force, Security Protection Group, Coast Guard (2007)

Mali
  Malian Armed Forces: Army, Republic of Mali Air Force (Force
  Aerienne de la Republique du Mali, FARM), National Guard (2008)

Malta
  Armed Forces of Malta (AFM; includes air and maritime
  elements) (2007)

Marshall Islands
  no regular military forces; under the 1983 Compact
  of Free Association, the US has full authority and responsibility
  for security and defense of the Marshall Islands; Marshall Islands
  Police (2008)

Mauritania
  Mauritanian Armed Forces: Army, Mauritanian Navy (Marine
  Mauritanienne; includes naval infantry), Islamic Air Force of
  Mauritania (Force Aerienne Islamique de Mauritanie, FAIM) (2008)

Mauritius
  no regular military forces; National Police Force, Special
  Mobile Force, National Coast Guard (2008)

Mexico
  Secretariat of National Defense (Secretaria de Defensa
  Nacional, Sedena): Army (Ejercito, includes Mexican Air Force
  (Fuerza Aerea Mexicana, FAM)); Secretariat of the Navy (Secretaria
  de Marina, Semar): Mexican Navy (Armada de Mexico, ARM, includes
  Naval Air Force (FAN) and naval infantry) (2008)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  no regular military forces

Moldova
  National Army: Ground Forces, Rapid Reaction Forces, Air and
  Air Defense Forces (2008)

Monaco
  no regular military forces; the Palace Guard performs
  ceremonial duties

Mongolia
  Mongolian Armed Forces: Mongolian Army, Mongolian Air
  Force; there is no navy (2008)

Montenegro
  Armed Forces of the Republic of Montenegro: Army, Navy
  (serves as Coast Guard), Air Force (2008)

Montserrat
  no regular military forces; Royal Montserrat Police Force
  (2008)

Morocco
  Royal Armed Forces (Forces Armees Royales, FAR): Royal
  Moroccan Army (includes Air Defense), Navy (includes Marines), Royal
  Moroccan Air Force (Al Quwwat al Jawyiya al Malakiya Marakishiya;
  Force Aerienne Royale Marocaine) (2008)

Mozambique
  Mozambique Armed Defense Forces (FADM): Mozambique Army,
  Mozambique Navy (Marinha Mocambique, MM), Mozambique Air Force
  (Forca Aerea de Mocambique, FAM) (2006)

Namibia
  Namibian Defense Force: Army, Navy, Air Wing (2008)

Nauru
  no regular military forces; Nauru Police Force (2008)

Nepal
  Nepalese Army, Armed Police Force (2008)

Netherlands
  Royal Netherlands Army, Royal Netherlands Navy (includes
  Naval Air Service and Marine Corps), Royal Netherlands Air Force
  (Koninklijke Luchtmacht, KLu), Royal Military Police (2008)

Netherlands Antilles
  no regular military forces; National Guard
  (2008)

New Caledonia
  no regular indigenous military forces; French Armed
  Forces (includes Army, Navy, Air Force, Gendarmerie); Police Force

New Zealand
  New Zealand Defense Force (NZDF): New Zealand Army,
  Royal New Zealand Navy, Royal New Zealand Air Force (2008)

Nicaragua
  National Army of Nicaragua (ENN; includes Navy, Air Force)
  (2008)

Niger
  Nigerien Armed Forces (Forces Armees Nigeriennes, FAN): Army,
  Niger Air Force (Force Aerienne du Niger) (2008)

Nigeria
  Nigerian Armed Forces: Army, Navy, Air Force (2008)

Niue
  no regular indigenous military forces; Police Force

Norway
  Norwegian Army (Haeren), Royal Norwegian Navy (Kongelige
  Norske Sjoeforsvaret, RNoN; includes Coastal Rangers and Coast Guard
  (Kystvakt)), Royal Norwegian Air Force (Kongelige Norske
  Luftforsvaret, RNoAF), Home Guard (Heimevernet, HV) (2007)

Oman
  Sultan's Armed Forces (SAF): Royal Army of Oman, Royal Navy of
  Oman, Royal Air Force of Oman (2008)

Pakistan
  Army (includes National Guard), Navy (includes Marines and
  Maritime Security Agency), Pakistan Air Force (Pakistan Fiza'ya)
  (2008)

Palau
  no regular military forces; Palau National Police (2008)

Panama
  no regular military forces; Panamanian Public Forces or PPF
  includes the Panamanian National Police (PNP), National Maritime
  Service (NMS), and National Air Service (NAS) (2008)

Papua New Guinea
  Papua New Guinea Defense Force (PNGDF; includes
  Maritime Operations Element, Air Operations Element) (2008)

Paraguay
  Army, National Navy (Armada Nacional, includes Naval
  Aviation, Marine Corps, General Naval Prefecture), Air Force (Fuerza
  Aerea Paraguay, FAP) (2008)

Peru
  Army of Peru (Ejercito Peruano), Navy of Peru (Marina de Guerra
  del Peru, MGP (includes naval air, naval infantry, and Coast
  Guard)), Air Force of Peru (Fuerza Aerea del Peru, FAP) (2008)

Philippines
  Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP): Army, Navy
  (includes Marine Corps), Air Force (2008)

Poland
  Polish Armed Forces: Land Forces (includes Navy (Marynarka
  Wojenna, MW)), Polish Air Force (Sily Powietrzne Rzeczypospolitej
  Polskiej, SPRP) (2008)

Portugal
  Portuguese Army (Exercito Portugues), Portuguese Navy
  (Marinha Portuguesa; includes Marine Corps), Portuguese Air Force
  (Forca Aerea Portuguesa, FAP) (2008)

Puerto Rico
  no regular indigenous military forces; paramilitary
  National Guard, Police Force

Qatar
  Qatari Amiri Land Force (QALF), Qatari Amiri Navy (QAN),
  Qatari Amiri Air Force (QAAF) (2007)

Romania
  Land Forces, Naval Forces, Romanian Air Force (Fortele
  Aeriene Romane, FAR), Special Operations (2008)

Russia
  Ground Forces (SV), Navy (VMF), Air Forces
  (Voyenno-Vozdushniye Sily, VVS); Airborne Troops (VDV), Strategic
  Rocket Troops (Raketnyye Voyska Strategicheskogo Naznacheniya,
  RVSN), and Space Troops (KV) are independent "combat arms," not
  subordinate to any of the three branches; Russian Ground Forces
  include the following combat arms: motorized-rifle troops, tank
  troops, missile and artillery troops, air defense of ground troops
  (2008)

Rwanda
  Rwandan Defense Forces: Army, Air Force

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  Saint Kitts and Nevis Defense Force (includes
  Coast Guard), Royal Saint Kitts and Nevis Police Force

Saint Lucia
  no regular military forces; Royal Saint Lucia Police
  Force (includes Special Service Unit, Coast Guard) (2007)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  no regular military forces; Royal
  Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Police Force, Coast Guard (2007)

Samoa
  no regular military forces; Samoa Police Force (2008)

San Marino
  no regular military forces; Voluntary Military Force
  (Corpi Militari Voluntar) performs ceremonial duties and limited
  police support functions (2008)

Sao Tome and Principe
  Armed Forces of Sao Tome and Principe (FASTP):
  Army, Coast Guard of Sao Tome e Principe (Guarda Costeira de Sao
  Tome e Principe, GCSTP), Presidential Guard (2007)

Saudi Arabia
  Land Forces (Army), Navy, Air Force, Air Defense Force,
  National Guard, Ministry of Interior Forces (paramilitary)

Senegal
  Army, Senegalese Navy (Marine Senegalaise), Senegalese Air
  Force (Armee de l'Air du Senegal) (2008)

Serbia
  Serbian Armed Forces (Vojska Srbije, VS): Land Forces Command
  (includes Riverine Component, consisting of a river flotilla on the
  Danube), Joint Operations Command, Air and Air Defense Forces
  Command (2008)

Seychelles
  Seychelles Defense Force: Army, Coast Guard (includes
  Naval Wing, Air Wing), National Guard (2005)

Sierra Leone
  Republic of Sierra Leone Armed Forces (RSLAF): Army
  (includes Navy (Maritime Wing), Air Wing) (2008)

Singapore
  Singapore Armed Forces: Army, Navy, Air Force (includes
  Air Defense) (2008)

Slovakia
  Armed Forces of the Slovak Republic (Ozbrojene Sily
  Slovenskej Republiky): Land Forces (Pozemne Sily), Air Forces
  (Vzdusne Sily) (2008)

Slovenia
  Slovenian Army (includes air and naval forces)

Solomon Islands
  no regular military forces; Solomon Islands Police
  Force (2008)

Somalia
  no national-level armed forces (2008)

South Africa
  South African National Defense Force (SANDF): South
  African Army, South African Navy (SAN), South African Air Force
  (SAAF), Joint Operations Command, Military Intelligence, Military
  Health Services (2008)

Spain
  Spanish Armed Forces: Army (Ejercito de Tierra), Spanish Navy
  (Armada Espanola, AE; includes Marine Corps), Spanish Air Force
  (Ejercito del Aire Espanola, EdA) (2007)

Sri Lanka
  Sri Lanka Army, Sri Lanka Navy, Sri Lanka Air Force (2008)

Sudan
  Sudanese Armed Forces (SAF): Land Forces, Navy, Air Force,
  Popular Defense Forces; Sudan People's Liberation Army (SPLA): Land
  Forces (2008)

Suriname
  National Army (Nationaal Leger, NL; includes Naval Wing,
  Air Wing) (2007)

Svalbard
  no regular military forces

Swaziland
  Umbutfo Swaziland Defense Force (USDF): Ground Force
  (includes air wing) (2008)

Sweden
  Swedish Armed Forces (Forsvarsmakten): Army (Armen), Royal
  Swedish Navy (Marinen), Swedish Air Force (Svenska Flygvapnet) (2008)

Switzerland
  Swiss Armed Forces: Land Forces, Swiss Air Force
  (Schweizer Luftwaffe) (2007)

Syria
  Syrian Armed Forces: Syrian Arab Army, Syrian Arab Navy,
  Syrian Arab Air and Air Defense Forces (includes Air Defense
  Command) (2008)

Taiwan
  Army, Navy (includes Marine Corps), Air Force, Coast Guard
  Administration, Armed Forces Reserve Command, Combined Service
  Forces Command, Armed Forces Police Command

Tajikistan
  Ground Forces, Air and Air Defense Forces, Mobile Force
  (2008)

Tanzania
  Tanzanian People's Defense Force (Jeshi la Wananchi la
  Tanzania, JWTZ): Army, Naval Wing (includes Coast Guard), Air
  Defense Command (includes Air Wing), National Service (2007)

Thailand
  Royal Thai Army (RTA), Royal Thai Navy (RTN, includes Royal
  Thai Marine Corps), Royal Thai Air Force (Knogtap Agard Thai, RTAF)
  (2008)

Timor-Leste
  Timor-Leste Defense Force (Forcas de Defesa de
  Timor-L'este, Falintil (FDTL)): Army, Navy (Armada) (2008)

Togo
  Togolese Armed Forces: Ground Forces, Togolese Navy (Marine du
  Togo), Togolese Air Force (Force Aerienne Togolaise, FAT), National
  Gendarmerie (2008)

Tonga
  Tonga Defense Services (TDS): Land Force (Royal Guard), Naval
  Force (includes Royal Marines, Air Wing) (2008)

Trinidad and Tobago
  Trinidad and Tobago Defense Force (TTDF):
  Trinidad and Tobago Regiment, Coast Guard, Air Guard (2008)

Tunisia
  Army, Navy, Republic of Tunisia Air Force (Al-Quwwat
  al-Jawwiya al-Jamahiriyah At'tunisia) (2008)

Turkey
  Turkish Armed Forces (TSK): Turkish Land Forces (Turk Kara
  Kuvvetleri, TKK), Turkish Naval Forces (Turk Deniz Kuvvetleri, TDK;
  includes naval air and naval infantry), Turkish Air Force (Turk Hava
  Kuvvetleri, THK) (2008)

Turkmenistan
  Ground Forces, Navy, Air and Air Defense Forces (2007)

Tuvalu
  no regular military forces; Tuvalu Police Force (2008)

Uganda
  Uganda Peoples Defense Force (UPDF): Army (includes Marine
  Unit), Air Force (2007)

Ukraine
  Ground Forces, Naval Forces, Air Forces (Viyskovo-Povitryani
  Syly), Air Defense Forces (2002)

United Arab Emirates
  United Arab Emirates Armed Forces: Army, Navy
  (includes Marines), Air Force and Air Defense, National Coast Guard
  (2008)

United Kingdom
  Army, Royal Navy (includes Royal Marines), Royal Air
  Force

United States
  US Army, US Navy (includes Marine Corps), US Air
  Force, US Coast Guard; note - Coast Guard administered in peacetime
  by the Department of Homeland Security, but in wartime reports to
  the Department of the Navy (2008)

Uruguay
  Uruguayan Armed Forces: Army (Ejercito), Navy (Armada
  Nacional; includes naval air arm, Marines, Maritime Prefecture in
  wartime), Air Force (Fuerza Aerea Uruguaya, FAU) (2008)

Uzbekistan
  Army, Air and Air Defense Forces, National Guard

Vanuatu
  no regular military forces; Vanuatu Police Force (VPF),
  Vanuatu Mobile Force (VMF; includes Police Maritime Wing (PMW))
  (2008)

Venezuela
  National Armed Forces (Fuerza Armada Nacionale, FAN):
  Ground Forces or Army (Fuerzas Terrestres or Ejercito), Naval Forces
  (Fuerzas Navales or Armada; includes Marines, Coast Guard), Air
  Force (Fuerzas Aereas or Aviacion), Armed Forces of Cooperation or
  National Guard (Fuerzas Armadas de Cooperacion or Guardia Nacional)

Vietnam
  People's Armed Forces: People's Army of Vietnam (PAVN)
  (includes People's Navy Command (with naval infantry, coast guard),
  Air and Air Defense Force (Kon Quan Nhan Dan), Border Defense
  Command), People's Public Security Forces, Militia Force,
  Self-Defense Forces (2005)

Yemen
  Army (includes Republican Guard), Navy (includes Marines),
  Yemen Air Force (Al Quwwat al Jawwiya al Jamahiriya al Yemeniya;
  includes Air Defense Force) (2008)

Zambia
  Zambian National Defense Force (ZNDF): Zambian Army, Zambian
  Air Force, National Service (2008)

Zimbabwe
  Zimbabwe Defense Forces (ZDF): Zimbabwe National Army
  (ZNA), Air Force of Zimbabwe (AFZ), Zimbabwe Republic Police (2008)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2056  Budget


Afghanistan
  revenues: $715 million
  expenditures: $2.6 billion
  note: Afghanistan has also received $273 million from the
  Reconstruction Trust Fund and $63 million from the Law and Order
  Trust Fund (2007 est.)

Albania
  revenues: $2.782 billion
  expenditures: $3.155 billion (2007 est.)

Algeria
  revenues: $57.03 billion
  expenditures: $40.53 billion (2007 est.)

American Samoa
  revenues: $121 million (37% in local revenue and 63%
  in US grants)
  expenditures: $127 million (FY96/97)

Andorra
  revenues: $333.5 million
  expenditures: $386.6 million (2005)

Angola
  revenues: $20.18 billion
  expenditures: $15.53 billion (2007 est.)

Anguilla
  revenues: $22.8 million
  expenditures: $22.5 million (2000 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  revenues: $123.7 million
  expenditures: $145.9 million (2000 est.)

Argentina
  revenues: $48.99 billion
  expenditures: $61.23 billion (2007 est.)

Armenia
  revenues: $1.666 billion
  expenditures: $1.735 billion; including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2007 est.)

Aruba
  revenues: $507.9 million
  expenditures: $577.9 million (2005 est.)

Australia
  revenues: $321.9 billion
  expenditures: $315.8 billion (2007 est.)

Austria
  revenues: $177.5 billion
  expenditures: $179.9 billion (2007 est.)

Azerbaijan
  revenues: $6.755 billion
  expenditures: $8.572 billion (2007 est.)

Bahamas, The
  revenues: $1.03 billion
  expenditures: $1.03 billion (FY04/05)

Bahrain
  revenues: $5.418 billion
  expenditures: $4.968 billion (2007 est.)

Bangladesh
  revenues: $7.01 billion
  expenditures: $9.464 billion (2007 est.)

Barbados
  revenues: $847 million (including grants)
  expenditures: $886 million (2000 est.)

Belarus
  revenues: $20.75 billion
  expenditures: $20.87 billion (2007 est.)

Belgium
  revenues: $220.1 billion
  expenditures: $221 billion (2007 est.)

Belize
  revenues: $307 million
  expenditures: $344 million (2007 est.)

Benin
  revenues: $959.2 million
  expenditures: $1.211 billion (2007 est.)

Bermuda
  revenues: $738 million
  expenditures: $665 million (FY04/05)

Bhutan
  revenues: $272 million
  expenditures: $350 million
  note: the government of India finances nearly three-fifths of
  Bhutan's budget expenditures (2005)

Bolivia
  revenues: $5.723 billion
  expenditures: $5.495 billion (2007 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  revenues: $7.094 billion
  expenditures: $7.137 billion (2007 est.)

Botswana
  revenues: $4.741 billion
  expenditures: $3.816 billion (2007 est.)

Brazil
  revenues: $244 billion
  expenditures: $219.9 billion (FY07)

British Virgin Islands
  revenues: $204.7 million
  expenditures: $180.4 million (2004)

Brunei
  revenues: $3.765 billion
  expenditures: $4.815 billion (2004 est.)

Bulgaria
  revenues: $16.84 billion
  expenditures: $15.35 billion (2007 est.)

Burkina Faso
  revenues: $1.415 billion
  expenditures: $1.847 billion (2007 est.)

Burma
  revenues: NA
  expenditures: NA (2007 est.)

Burundi
  revenues: $264.2 million
  expenditures: $335.4 million; including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2007 est.)

Cambodia
  revenues: $1.015 billion
  expenditures: $1.168 billion (2007 est.)

Cameroon
  revenues: $4.179 billion
  expenditures: $3.297 billion (2007 est.)

Canada
  revenues: $569.3 billion
  expenditures: $556.2 billion (2007 est.)

Cape Verde
  revenues: $436.1 million
  expenditures: $449.7 million (2007 est.)

Cayman Islands
  revenues: $423.8 million
  expenditures: $392.6 million (2004)

Central African Republic
  revenues: $250 million
  expenditures: $273 million (2007 est.)

Chad
  revenues: $1.864 billion
  expenditures: $1.749 billion (2007 est.)

Chile
  revenues: $44.96 billion
  expenditures: $30.51 billion (2007 est.)

China
  revenues: $674.3 billion
  expenditures: $651.6 billion (2007 est.)

Christmas Island
  revenues: $NA
  expenditures: $NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  revenues: $NA
  expenditures: $NA

Colombia
  revenues: $63.69 billion
  expenditures: $64.96 billion; including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2007 est.)

Comoros
  revenues: $27.6 million
  expenditures: $NA (2001 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  revenues: $700 million
  expenditures: $2 billion (2006 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  revenues: $3.295 billion
  expenditures: $2.444 billion (2007 est.)

Cook Islands
  revenues: $70.95 million
  expenditures: $69.05 million (FY05/06)

Costa Rica
  revenues: $3.976 billion
  expenditures: $3.808 billion (2007 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  revenues: $3.884 billion
  expenditures: $4.106 billion (2007 est.)

Croatia
  revenues: $22.56 billion
  expenditures: $23.92 billion (2007 est.)

Cuba
  revenues: $41.84 billion
  expenditures: $43.9 billion (2007 est.)

Cyprus
  revenues:: $9.996 billion
  expenditures:: $9.304 billion (2007 est.)

Czech Republic
  revenues: $72.1 billion
  expenditures: $74.98 billion (2007 est.)

Denmark
  revenues: $170.6 billion
  expenditures: $156.8 billion (2007 est.)

Djibouti
  revenues: $135 million
  expenditures: $182 million (1999 est.)

Dominica
  revenues: $73.9 million
  expenditures: $84.4 million (2001)

Dominican Republic
  revenues: $7.423 billion
  expenditures: $7.259 billion (2007 est.)

Ecuador
  revenues: $13.46 billion
  expenditures: planned $11.96 billion (2007 est.)

Egypt
  revenues: $35.05 billion
  expenditures: $44.83 billion (2007 est.)

El Salvador
  revenues: $3.659 billion
  expenditures: $3.709 billion (2007 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  revenues: $4.963 billion
  expenditures: $2.494 billion (2007 est.)

Eritrea
  revenues: $234.6 million
  expenditures: $471.4 million (2007 est.)

Estonia
  revenues: $7.854 billion
  expenditures: $7.171 billion (2007 est.)

Ethiopia
  revenues: $3.231 billion
  expenditures: $3.785 billion (2007 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  revenues: $66.2 million
  expenditures: $67.9 million (FY98/99 est.)

Faroe Islands
  revenues: $588 million
  expenditures: $623 million (2005)

Fiji
  revenues: $1.363 billion
  expenditures: $1.376 billion (2006)

Finland
  revenues: $62.02 billion
  expenditures: $58.16 billion (2007)

France
  revenues: $1.287 trillion
  expenditures: $1.356 trillion (2007 est.)

French Polynesia
  revenues: $865 million
  expenditures: $644.1 million (1999)

Gabon
  revenues: $3.536 billion
  expenditures: $2.347 billion (2007 est.)

Gambia, The
  revenues: $181.1 million
  expenditures: $163.4 million (2007 est.)

Gaza Strip
  revenues: $1.149 billion
  expenditures: $2.31 billion
  note: includes West Bank (2006)

Georgia
  revenues: $3.68 billion
  expenditures: $3.08 billion (2007 est.)

Germany
  revenues: $1.454 trillion
  expenditures: $1.453 trillion (2007 est.)

Ghana
  revenues: $4.262 billion
  expenditures: $5.481 billion (2007 est.)

Gibraltar
  revenues: $455.1 million
  expenditures: $423.6 million (2005 est.)

Greece
  revenues: $115.2 billion
  expenditures: $124.1 billion (2007 est.)

Greenland
  revenues: $1.36 billion
  expenditures: $1.27 billion (2005)

Grenada
  revenues: $85.8 million
  expenditures: $102.1 million (1997)

Guam
  revenues: $319.6 million
  expenditures: $427.8 million (2002 est.)

Guatemala
  revenues: $4.38 billion
  expenditures: $4.872 billion (2007 est.)

Guernsey
  revenues: $563.6 million
  expenditures: $530.9 million (2005)

Guinea
  revenues: $347.1 million
  expenditures: $742.7 million (2007 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  revenues: $NA
  expenditures: $NA

Guyana
  revenues: $446.2 million
  expenditures: $531.2 million (2007 est.)

Haiti
  revenues: $815.9 million
  expenditures: $802.2 million (2007 est.)

Holy See (Vatican City)
  revenues: $310 million
  expenditures: $307 million (2006)

Honduras
  revenues: $2.344 billion
  expenditures: $2.631 billion; including capital expenditures of $106
  million (2007 est.)

Hong Kong
  revenues: $36.9 billion
  expenditures: $29.4 billion (FY07-08 est.)

Hungary
  revenues: $64 billion
  expenditures: $71.87 billion (2007 est.)

Iceland
  revenues: $9.64 billion
  expenditures: $8.602 billion (2007 est.)

India
  revenues: $141.2 billion
  expenditures: $172.6 billion (2007 est.)

Indonesia
  revenues: $79.56 billion
  expenditures: $84.87 billion (2007 est.)

Iran
  revenues: $104 billion
  expenditures: $101 billion (2008 est.)

Iraq
  revenues: $42.3 billion
  expenditures: $48.4 billion (FY08 est.)

Ireland
  revenues: $93.22 billion
  expenditures: $92.46 billion (2007 est.)

Isle of Man
  revenues: $965 million
  expenditures: $943 million (FY05/06 est.)

Israel
  revenues: $53.6 billion
  expenditures: $53.63 billion (2007 est.)

Italy
  revenues: $991.2 billion
  expenditures: $1.031 trillion (2007 est.)

Jamaica
  revenues: $3.716 billion
  expenditures: $4.261 billion (2007 est.)

Japan
  revenues: $1.462 trillion
  expenditures: $1.567 trillion (2007 est.)

Jersey
  revenues: $829 million
  expenditures: $851 million (2005)

Jordan
  revenues: $5.117 billion
  expenditures: $6.468 billion (2007 est.)

Kazakhstan
  revenues: $23.58 billion
  expenditures: $25.33 billion (2007 est.)

Kenya
  revenues: $5.924 billion
  expenditures: $6.878 billion (2007 est.)

Kiribati
  revenues: $55.52 million
  expenditures: $59.71 million (FY05)

Korea, North
  revenues: $2.88 billion $NA
  expenditures: $2.98 billion $NA

Korea, South
  revenues: $262.2 billion
  expenditures: $225.8 billion (2007 est.)

Kosovo
  revenues: $1.364 billion
  expenditures: $1.008 billion (2007 est.)

Kuwait
  revenues: $85.28 billion
  expenditures: $37.77 billion (2007 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  revenues: $964.6 million
  expenditures: $961.1 million (2007 est.)

Laos
  revenues: $473.1 million
  expenditures: $647.2 million (2007 est.)

Latvia
  revenues: $10.47 billion
  expenditures: $10.29 billion (2007 est.)

Lebanon
  revenues: $6.178 billion
  expenditures: $8.35 billion (2007 est.)

Lesotho
  revenues: $779.9 million
  expenditures: $696.9 million (2007 est.)

Liberia
  revenues: NA
  expenditures: NA

Libya
  revenues: $39.88 billion
  expenditures: $19.48 billion (2007 est.)

Liechtenstein
  revenues: $424.2 million
  expenditures: $414.1 million (1998 est.)

Lithuania
  revenues: $13.28 billion
  expenditures: $13.75 billion (2007 est.)

Luxembourg
  revenues: $19.78 billion
  expenditures: $18.9 billion (2007 est.)

Macau
  revenues: $4.6 billion
  expenditures: $3.4 billion (2006)

Macedonia
  revenues: $2.508 billion
  expenditures: $2.487 billion (2007 est.)

Madagascar
  revenues: $1.319 billion
  expenditures: $1.629 billion (2007 est.)

Malawi
  revenues: $1.128 billion
  expenditures: $1.185 billion (2007 est.)

Malaysia
  revenues: $40.69 billion
  expenditures: $46.7 billion (2007 est.)

Maldives
  revenues: $508 million (including foreign grants)
  expenditures: $671 million (2006 est.)

Mali
  revenues: $1.5 billion
  expenditures: $1.8 billion (2006 est.)

Malta
  revenues: $3.485 billion
  expenditures: $3.554 billion (2007 est.)

Marshall Islands
  revenues: $42 million
  expenditures: $40 million (1999)

Mauritania
  revenues: $421 million
  expenditures: $378 million (2002 est.)

Mauritius
  revenues: $1.344 billion
  expenditures: $1.773 billion; including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2007 est.)

Mayotte
  revenues: $420 million
  expenditures: $394 million (2005)

Mexico
  revenues: $227.5 billion
  expenditures: $227.2 billion (2007 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  revenues: $127.3 million ($69
  million less grants)
  expenditures: $144.2 million (FY05 est.)

Moldova
  revenues: $1.83 billion
  expenditures: $1.841 billion (2007 est.)

Monaco
  revenues: $863 million
  expenditures: $920.6 million (2005 est.)

Mongolia
  revenues: $1.58 billion
  expenditures: $1.497 billion (2007)

Montenegro
  revenues: NA
  expenditures: NA

Montserrat
  revenues: $31.4 million
  expenditures: $31.6 million (1997 est.)

Morocco
  revenues: $20.49 billion
  expenditures: $21.85 billion (2007 est.)

Mozambique
  revenues: $2.302 billion
  expenditures: $2.63 billion (2007 est.)

Namibia
  revenues: $2.765 billion
  expenditures: $2.515 billion (2007 est.)

Nauru
  revenues: $13.5 million
  expenditures: $13.5 million (2005)

Nepal
  revenues: $1.153 billion
  expenditures: $1.927 billion (FY06/07)

Netherlands
  revenues: $359.5 billion
  expenditures: $356.5 billion (2007 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  revenues: $757.9 million
  expenditures: $949.5 million (2004)

New Caledonia
  revenues: $996 million
  expenditures: $1.072 billion (2001 est.)

New Zealand
  revenues: $58.31 billion
  expenditures: $53.5 billion (2007 est.)

Nicaragua
  revenues: $1.115 billion
  expenditures: $1.291 billion (2007 est.)

Niger
  revenues: $320 million (includes $134 million from foreign
  sources)
  expenditures: $320 million (2002 est.)

Nigeria
  revenues: $19.43 billion
  expenditures: $20.36 billion (2007 est.)

Niue
  revenues: $15.07 million
  expenditures: $16.33 million (FY0405)

Norfolk Island
  revenues: $4.6 million
  expenditures: $4.8 million (FY99/00)

Northern Mariana Islands
  revenues: $193 million
  expenditures: $223 million (FY01/02 est.)

Norway
  revenues: $226.3 billion
  expenditures: $158.7 billion (2007 est.)

Oman
  revenues: $14.02 billion
  expenditures: $13.68 billion (2007 est.)

Pakistan
  revenues: $18.25 billion
  expenditures: $24.69 billion (2007 est.)

Palau
  revenues: $72.07 million
  expenditures: $72.43 million (FY04/05 est.)

Panama
  revenues: $5.505 billion
  expenditures: $4.822 billion (2007 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  revenues: $2.363 billion
  expenditures: $2.21 billion (2007 est.)

Paraguay
  revenues: $2.159 billion
  expenditures: $2.042 billion (2007 est.)

Peru
  revenues: $32.54 billion
  expenditures: $29.15 billion (2007 est.)

Philippines
  revenues: $24.63 billion
  expenditures: $24.9 billion (2007 est.)

Pitcairn Islands
  revenues: $746,000
  expenditures: $1.028 million (FY04/05)

Poland
  revenues: $85.39 billion
  expenditures: $91.16 billion (2007 est.)

Portugal
  revenues: $96.01 billion
  expenditures: $101.9 billion (2007 est.)

Puerto Rico
  revenues: $6.7 billion
  expenditures: $9.6 billion (FY99/00)

Qatar
  revenues: $27.12 billion
  expenditures: $22.55 billion (2007 est.)

Romania
  revenues: $52.13 billion
  expenditures: $56.01 billion (2007 est.)

Russia
  revenues: $299 billion
  expenditures: $262 billion (2007 est.)

Rwanda
  revenues: $801.8 million
  expenditures: $878.3 million; including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2007 est.)

Saint Helena
  revenues: $13.09 million
  expenditures: $32.16 million
  note: revenue data reflect locally raised revenues only; the budget
  deficit is resolved by grant aid from the United Kingdom (FY06/07
  est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  revenues: $89.7 million
  expenditures: $128.2 million (2003 est.)

Saint Lucia
  revenues: $141.2 million
  expenditures: $146.7 million (2000 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  revenues: $70 million
  expenditures: $60 million (1996 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  revenues: $94.6 million
  expenditures: $85.8 million (2000 est.)

Samoa
  revenues: $171.3 million
  expenditures: $78.1 million (FY04/05 est.)

San Marino
  revenues: $709.6 million
  expenditures: $672.3 million (2004)

Sao Tome and Principe
  revenues: $63.21 million
  expenditures: $54.94 million (2007 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  revenues: $163 billion
  expenditures: $118.3 billion (2007 est.)

Senegal
  revenues: $2.614 billion
  expenditures: $3.036 billion (2007 est.)

Serbia
  revenues: $9.6 billion
  expenditures: $9.8 billion (2007 est.)

Seychelles
  revenues: $372.3 million
  expenditures: $362.2 million (2007 est.)

Sierra Leone
  revenues: $96 million
  expenditures: $351 million (2000 est.)

Singapore
  revenues: $27 billion
  expenditures: $21.5 billion (2007 est.)

Slovakia
  revenues: $34.34 billion
  expenditures: $35.99 billion (2007 est.)

Slovenia
  revenues: $19.17 billion
  expenditures: $19.04 billion (2007 est.)

Solomon Islands
  revenues: $49.7 million
  expenditures: $75.1 million (2003)

Somalia
  revenues: $NA
  expenditures: $NA

South Africa
  revenues: $83.47 billion
  expenditures: $82.02 billion (2007 est.)

Spain
  revenues: $588.5 billion
  expenditures: $556.5 billion (2007 est.)

Sri Lanka
  revenues: $5.384 billion
  expenditures: $7.608 billion (2007 est.)

Sudan
  revenues: $9.201 billion
  expenditures: $10.62 billion (2007 est.)

Suriname
  revenues: $392.6 million
  expenditures: $425.9 million (2004)

Svalbard
  revenues: $25.07 million
  expenditures: $NA (2004 est.)

Swaziland
  revenues: $1.13 billion
  expenditures: $1.143 billion (2007 est.)

Sweden
  revenues: $249.1 billion
  expenditures: $233.5 billion (2007 est.)

Switzerland
  revenues: $150.6 billion
  expenditures: $141.5 billion (2007 est.)

Syria
  revenues: $8.393 billion
  expenditures: $11.21 billion (2007 est.)

Taiwan
  revenues: $76.2 billion
  expenditures: $75.65 billion (2007 est.)

Tajikistan
  revenues: $712.1 million
  expenditures: $674.5 million (2007 est.)

Tanzania
  revenues: $3.561 billion
  expenditures: $3.594 billion (2007 est.)

Thailand
  revenues: $44.14 billion
  expenditures: $49.83 billion (2007 est.)

Timor-Leste
  revenues: $733 million
  expenditures: $309 million
  note: the government passed a transitional budget to cover the
  latter half of 2007 and has moved the fiscal cycle to a calendar
  year, starting with the budget they passed for 2008 (FY06/07 est.)

Togo
  revenues: $466.8 million
  expenditures: $514.7 million (2007 est.)

Tokelau
  revenues: $430,800
  expenditures: $2.8 million (1987 est.)

Tonga
  revenues: $80.48 million
  expenditures: $109.8 million (FY07/08)

Trinidad and Tobago
  revenues: $6.332 billion
  expenditures: $5.969 billion (2007 est.)

Tunisia
  revenues: $8.466 billion
  expenditures: $9.475 billion (2007 est.)

Turkey
  revenues: $145.5 billion
  expenditures: $156.1 billion (2007 est.)

Turkmenistan
  revenues: $1.664 billion
  expenditures: $1.624 billion (2007 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  revenues: $47 million
  expenditures: $33.6 million (1997-98 est.)

Tuvalu
  revenues: $21.54 million
  expenditures: $23.05 million (2006)

Uganda
  revenues: $2.211 billion
  expenditures: $2.443 billion; including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2007 est.)

Ukraine
  revenues: $43.54 billion
  expenditures: $45.06 billion; note - this is the planned,
  consolidated budget (2007 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  revenues: $68.27 billion
  expenditures: $38.06 billion (2007 est.)

United Kingdom
  revenues: $1.154 trillion
  expenditures: $1.239 trillion (2007 est.)

United States
  revenues: $2.568 trillion
  expenditures: $2.73 trillion (2007 est.)

Uruguay
  revenues: $6.701 billion
  expenditures: $6.807 billion (2007 est.)

Uzbekistan
  revenues: $6.478 billion
  expenditures: $6.5 billion (2007 est.)

Vanuatu
  revenues: $78.7 million
  expenditures: $72.23 million (2005)

Venezuela
  revenues: $65.83 billion
  expenditures: $58.9 billion (2007 est.)

Vietnam
  revenues: $18.62 billion
  expenditures: $19.71 billion (2007 est.)

Virgin Islands
  revenues: $NA
  expenditures: $NA

Wallis and Futuna
  revenues: $29,730
  expenditures: $31,330 (2004)

West Bank
  revenues: $1.149 billion
  expenditures: $2.31 billion
  note: includes Gaza Strip (2006)

Western Sahara
  revenues: $NA
  expenditures: $NA

Yemen
  revenues: $7.576 billion
  expenditures: $8.391 billion (2007 est.)

Zambia
  revenues: $2.655 billion
  expenditures: $2.8 billion (2007 est.)

Zimbabwe
  revenues: $2.442 billion
  expenditures: $3.017 billion (2007 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2057  Capital


Afghanistan
  name: Kabul
  geographic coordinates: 34 31 N, 69 11 E
  time difference: UTC+4.5 (9.5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Akrotiri
  name: Episkopi Cantonment (base administrative center for
  Akrotiri and Dhekelia)
  geographic coordinates: 34 40 N, 32 51 E
  time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Albania
  name: Tirana (Tirane)
  geographic coordinates: 41 19 N, 19 49 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Algeria
  name: Algiers
  geographic coordinates: 36 45 N, 3 03 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

American Samoa
  name: Pago Pago
  geographic coordinates: 14 16 S, 170 42 W
  time difference: UTC-11 (6 hours behind Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Andorra
  name: Andorra la Vella
  geographic coordinates: 42 30 N, 1 31 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Angola
  name: Luanda
  geographic coordinates: 8 50 S, 13 14 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Anguilla
  name: The Valley
  geographic coordinates: 18 13 N, 63 03 W
  time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Antigua and Barbuda
  name: Saint John's
  geographic coordinates: 17 07 N, 61 51 W
  time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Argentina
  name: Buenos Aires
  geographic coordinates: 34 36 S, 58 40 W
  time difference: UTC-3 (2 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins first Sunday in October; ends
  third Saturday in March; note - a new policy of daylight saving time
  was initiated by the government on 30 December 2007

Armenia
  name: Yerevan
  geographic coordinates: 40 10 N, 44 30 E
  time difference: UTC+4 (9 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Aruba
  name: Oranjestad
  geographic coordinates: 12 31 N, 70 02 W
  time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Australia
  name: Canberra
  geographic coordinates: 35 17 S, 149 13 E
  time difference: UTC+10 (15 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in October; ends last
  Sunday in March
  note: Australia is divided into three time zones

Austria
  name: Vienna
  geographic coordinates: 48 12 N, 16 22 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Azerbaijan
  name: Baku (Baki, Baky)
  geographic coordinates: 40 23 N, 49 52 E
  time difference: UTC+4 (9 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Bahamas, The
  name: Nassau
  geographic coordinates: 25 05 N, 77 21 W
  time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard
  Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins second Sunday in March; ends
  first Sunday in November

Bahrain
  name: Manama
  geographic coordinates: 26 14 N, 50 34 E
  time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Bangladesh
  name: Dhaka
  geographic coordinates: 23 43 N, 90 24 E
  time difference: UTC+6 (11 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Barbados
  name: Bridgetown
  geographic coordinates: 13 06 N, 59 37 W
  time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Belarus
  name: Minsk
  geographic coordinates: 53 54 N, 27 34 E
  time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Belgium
  name: Brussels
  geographic coordinates: 50 50 N, 4 20 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Belize
  name: Belmopan
  geographic coordinates: 17 15 N, 88 46 W
  time difference: UTC-6 (1 hour behind Washington, DC during Standard
  Time)

Benin
  name: Porto-Novo (official capital)
  geographic coordinates: 6 29 N, 2 37 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  note: Cotonou (seat of government)

Bermuda
  name: Hamilton
  geographic coordinates: 32 17 N, 64 47 W
  time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins second Sunday in March; ends
  first Sunday in November

Bhutan
  name: Thimphu
  geographic coordinates: 27 29 N, 89 36 E
  time difference: UTC+6 (11 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Bolivia
  name: La Paz (administrative capital)
  geographic coordinates: 16 30 S, 68 09 W
  time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  note: Sucre (constitutional capital)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  name: Sarajevo
  geographic coordinates: 43 52 N, 18 25 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Botswana
  name: Gaborone
  geographic coordinates: 24 45 S, 25 55 E
  time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Brazil
  name: Brasilia
  geographic coordinates: 15 47 S, 47 55 W
  time difference: UTC-3 (2 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins third Sunday in October; ends
  third Sunday in February
  note: Brazil is divided into four time zones, including one for the
  Fernando de Noronha Islands

British Virgin Islands
  name: Road Town
  geographic coordinates: 18 27 N, 64 37 W
  time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Brunei
  name: Bandar Seri Begawan
  geographic coordinates: 4 53 N, 114 56 E
  time difference: UTC+8 (13 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Bulgaria
  name: Sofia
  geographic coordinates: 42 41 N, 23 19 E
  time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Burkina Faso
  name: Ouagadougou
  geographic coordinates: 12 22 N, 1 31 W
  time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Burma
  name: Rangoon (Yangon)
  geographic coordinates: 16 48 N, 96 09 E
  time difference: UTC+6.5 (11.5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  note: Nay Pyi Taw is administrative capital

Burundi
  name: Bujumbura
  geographic coordinates: 3 22 S, 29 21 E
  time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Cambodia
  name: Phnom Penh
  geographic coordinates: 11 33 N, 104 55 E
  time difference: UTC+7 (12 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Cameroon
  name: Yaounde
  geographic coordinates: 3 52 N, 11 31 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Canada
  name: Ottawa
  geographic coordinates: 45 25 N, 75 42 W
  time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard
  Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins second Sunday in March; ends
  first Sunday in November
  note: Canada is divided into six time zones

Cape Verde
  name: Praia
  geographic coordinates: 14 55 N, 23 31 W
  time difference: UTC-1 (4 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Cayman Islands
  name: George Town (on Grand Cayman)
  geographic coordinates: 19 18 N, 81 23 W
  time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard
  Time)

Central African Republic
  name: Bangui
  geographic coordinates: 4 22 N, 18 35 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Chad
  name: N'Djamena
  geographic coordinates: 12 06 N, 15 02 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Chile
  name: Santiago
  geographic coordinates: 33 27 S, 70 40 W
  time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins second Sunday in October; ends
  second Sunday in March

China
  name: Beijing
  geographic coordinates: 39 55 N, 116 23 E
  time difference: UTC+8 (13 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  note: despite its size, all of China falls within one time zone

Christmas Island
  name: The Settlement
  geographic coordinates: 10 25 S, 105 43 E
  time difference: UTC+7 (12 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  name: West Island
  geographic coordinates: 12 10 S, 96 50 E
  time difference: UTC+6.5 (11.5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Colombia
  name: Bogota
  geographic coordinates: 4 36 N, 74 05 W
  time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard
  Time)

Comoros
  name: Moroni
  geographic coordinates: 11 42 S, 43 14 E
  time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  name: Kinshasa
  geographic coordinates: 4 19 S, 15 18 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (six hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Congo, Republic of the
  name: Brazzaville
  geographic coordinates: 4 15 S, 15 17 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (six hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Cook Islands
  name: Avarua
  geographic coordinates: 21 12 S, 159 46 W
  time difference: UTC-10 (5 hours behind Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Costa Rica
  name: San Jose
  geographic coordinates: 9 56 N, 84 05 W
  time difference: UTC-6 (1 hour behind Washington, DC during Standard
  Time)

Cote d'Ivoire
  name: Yamoussoukro
  geographic coordinates: 6 49 N, 5 17 W
  time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  note: although Yamoussoukro has been the official capital since
  1983, Abidjan remains the commercial and administrative center; the
  US, like other countries, maintains its Embassy in Abidjan

Croatia
  name: Zagreb
  geographic coordinates: 45 48 N, 16 00 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Cuba
  name: Havana
  geographic coordinates: 23 07 N, 82 21 W
  time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard
  Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Cyprus
  name: Nicosia (Lefkosia)
  geographic coordinates: 35 10 N, 33 22 E
  time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Czech Republic
  name: Prague
  geographic coordinates: 50 05 N, 14 28 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Denmark
  name: Copenhagen
  geographic coordinates: 55 40 N, 12 35 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October
  note: applies to continental Denmark only, not to the North Atlantic
  components

Dhekelia
  name: Episkopi Cantonment (base administrative center for
  Akrotiri and Dhekelia); located in Akrotiri
  geographic coordinates: 34 40 N, 32 51 E
  time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Djibouti
  name: Djibouti
  geographic coordinates: 11 35 N, 43 09 E
  time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Dominica
  name: Roseau
  geographic coordinates: 15 18 N, 61 24 W
  time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Dominican Republic
  name: Santo Domingo
  geographic coordinates: 18 28 N, 69 54 W
  time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Ecuador
  name: Quito
  geographic coordinates: 0 13 S, 78 30 W
  time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard
  Time)

Egypt
  name: Cairo
  geographic coordinates: 30 03 N, 31 15 E
  time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Friday in April; ends last
  Thursday in September

El Salvador
  name: San Salvador
  geographic coordinates: 13 42 N, 89 12 W
  time difference: UTC-6 (1 hour behind Washington, DC during Standard
  Time)

Equatorial Guinea
  name: Malabo
  geographic coordinates: 3 45 N, 8 47 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Eritrea
  name: Asmara (Asmera)
  geographic coordinates: 15 20 N, 38 56 E
  time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Estonia
  name: Tallinn
  geographic coordinates: 59 26 N, 24 43 E
  time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Ethiopia
  name: Addis Ababa
  geographic coordinates: 9 02 N, 38 42 E
  time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

European Union
  name: Brussels (Belgium), Strasbourg (France),
  Luxembourg
  geographic coordinates: 50 50 N, 4 20 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October
  note: the Council of the European Union meets in Brussels, Belgium,
  the European Parliament meets in Brussels and Strasbourg, France,
  and the Court of Justice of the European Communities meets in
  Luxembourg

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  name: Stanley
  geographic coordinates: 51 42 S, 57 51 W
  time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins first Sunday in September; ends
  third Sunday in April

Faroe Islands
  name: Torshavn
  geographic coordinates: 62 01 N, 6 46 W
  time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Fiji
  name: Suva (on Viti Levu)
  geographic coordinates: 18 08 S, 178 25 E
  time difference: UTC+12 (17 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Finland
  name: Helsinki
  geographic coordinates: 60 10 N, 24 56 E
  time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

France
  name: Paris
  geographic coordinates: 48 52 N, 2 20 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October
  note: applies to metropolitan France only, not to its overseas
  departments, collectivities, or territories

French Polynesia
  name: Papeete
  geographic coordinates: 17 32 S, 149 34 W
  time difference: UTC-10 (5 hours behind Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Gabon
  name: Libreville
  geographic coordinates: 0 23 N, 9 27 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Gambia, The
  name: Banjul
  geographic coordinates: 13 27 N, 16 34 W
  time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Georgia
  name: T'bilisi
  geographic coordinates: 41 43 N, 44 47 E
  time difference: UTC+4 (9 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Germany
  name: Berlin
  geographic coordinates: 52 31 N, 13 24 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Ghana
  name: Accra
  geographic coordinates: 5 33 N, 0 13 W
  time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Gibraltar
  name: Gibraltar
  geographic coordinates: 36 08 N, 5 21 W
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Greece
  name: Athens
  geographic coordinates: 37 59 N, 23 44 E
  time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Greenland
  name: Nuuk (Godthab)
  geographic coordinates: 64 11 N, 51 45 W
  time difference: UTC-3 (2 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October
  note: Greenland is divided into four time zones

Grenada
  name: Saint George's
  geographic coordinates: 12 03 N, 61 45 W
  time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Guam
  name: Hagatna (Agana)
  geographic coordinates: 13 28 N, 144 44 E
  time difference: UTC+10 (15 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Guatemala
  name: Guatemala
  geographic coordinates: 14 37 N, 90 31 W
  time difference: UTC-6 (1 hour behind Washington, DC during Standard
  Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in April; ends last
  Friday in September; note - there is no DST planned for 2007-2009

Guernsey
  name: Saint Peter Port
  geographic coordinates: 49 27 N, 2 32 W
  time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Guinea
  name: Conakry
  geographic coordinates: 9 33 N, 13 42 W
  time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Guinea-Bissau
  name: Bissau
  geographic coordinates: 11 51 N, 15 35 W
  time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Guyana
  name: Georgetown
  geographic coordinates: 6 48 N, 58 10 W
  time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Haiti
  name: Port-au-Prince
  geographic coordinates: 18 32 N, 72 20 W
  time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard
  Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins first Sunday in April; ends last
  Sunday in October

Holy See (Vatican City)
  name: Vatican City
  geographic coordinates: 41 54 N, 12 27 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Honduras
  name: Tegucigalpa
  geographic coordinates: 14 06 N, 87 13 W
  time difference: UTC-6 (1 hour behind Washington, DC during Standard
  Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins second Sunday in March; ends
  first Sunday in November

Hungary
  name: Budapest
  geographic coordinates: 47 30 N, 19 05 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Iceland
  name: Reykjavik
  geographic coordinates: 64 09 N, 21 57 W
  time difference: UTC (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

India
  name: New Delhi
  geographic coordinates: 28 36 N, 77 12 E
  time difference: UTC+5.5 (10.5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Indonesia
  name: Jakarta
  geographic coordinates: 6 10 S, 106 49 E
  time difference: UTC+7 (12 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  note: Indonesia is divided into three time zones

Iran
  name: Tehran
  geographic coordinates: 35 40 N, 51 25 E
  time difference: UTC+3.5 (8.5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Iraq
  name: Baghdad
  geographic coordinates: 33 20 N, 44 23 E
  time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins 1 April; ends 1 October

Ireland
  name: Dublin
  geographic coordinates: 53 19 N, 6 14 W
  time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Isle of Man
  name: Douglas
  geographic coordinates: 54 09 N, 4 29 W
  time difference: UTC 0 (five hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Israel
  name: Jerusalem
  geographic coordinates: 31 46 N, 35 14 E
  time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Friday in March; ends the
  Sunday between the holidays of Rosh Hashana and Yom Kippur
  note: Israel proclaimed Jerusalem as its capital in 1950, but the
  US, like nearly all other countries, maintains its Embassy in Tel
  Aviv

Italy
  name: Rome
  geographic coordinates: 41 54 N, 12 29 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Jamaica
  name: Kingston
  geographic coordinates: 18 00 N, 76 48 W
  time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard
  Time)

Japan
  name: Tokyo
  geographic coordinates: 35 41 N, 139 45 E
  time difference: UTC+9 (14 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Jersey
  name: Saint Helier
  geographic coordinates: 49 11 N, 2 06 W
  time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Jordan
  name: Amman
  geographic coordinates: 31 57 N, 35 56 E
  time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Thursday in March; ends last
  Friday in September

Kazakhstan
  name: Astana
  geographic coordinates: 51 10 N, 71 25 E
  time difference: UTC+6 (11 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  note: Kazakhstan is divided into two time zones

Kenya
  name: Nairobi
  geographic coordinates: 1 17 S, 36 49 E
  time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Kiribati
  name: Tarawa
  geographic coordinates: 1 19 N, 172 58 E
  time difference: UTC+12 (17 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Korea, North
  name: Pyongyang
  geographic coordinates: 39 01 N, 125 45 E
  time difference: UTC+9 (14 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Korea, South
  name: Seoul
  geographic coordinates: 37 33 N, 126 59 E
  time difference: UTC+9 (14 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Kosovo
  name: Pristina (Prishtine)
  geographic coordinates: 42 40 N, 21 10 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Kuwait
  name: Kuwait
  geographic coordinates: 29 22 N, 47 58 E
  time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Kyrgyzstan
  name: Bishkek
  geographic coordinates: 42 52 N, 74 36 E
  time difference: UTC+6 (11 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Laos
  name: Vientiane
  geographic coordinates: 17 58 N, 102 36 E
  time difference: UTC+7 (12 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Latvia
  name: Riga
  geographic coordinates: 56 57 N, 24 06 E
  time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Lebanon
  name: Beirut
  geographic coordinates: 33 52 N, 35 30 E
  time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Lesotho
  name: Maseru
  geographic coordinates: 29 19 S, 27 29 E
  time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Liberia
  name: Monrovia
  geographic coordinates: 6 18 N, 10 48 W
  time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Libya
  name: Tripoli
  geographic coordinates: 32 53 N, 13 10 E
  time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Liechtenstein
  name: Vaduz
  geographic coordinates: 47 08 N, 9 31 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Lithuania
  name: Vilnius
  geographic coordinates: 54 41 N, 25 19 E
  time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Luxembourg
  name: Luxembourg
  geographic coordinates: 49 36 N, 6 07 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Macedonia
  name: Skopje
  geographic coordinates: 42 00 N, 21 26 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Madagascar
  name: Antananarivo
  geographic coordinates: 18 55 S, 47 31 E
  time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Malawi
  name: Lilongwe
  geographic coordinates: 13 59 S, 33 47 E
  time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Malaysia
  name: Kuala Lumpur
  geographic coordinates: 3 10 N, 101 42 E
  time difference: UTC+8 (13 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  note: Putrajaya is referred to as administrative center not capital;
  Parliament meets in Kuala Lumpur

Maldives
  name: Male
  geographic coordinates: 4 10 N, 73 30 E
  time difference: UTC+5 (10 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Mali
  name: Bamako
  geographic coordinates: 12 39 N, 8 00 W
  time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Malta
  name: Valletta
  geographic coordinates: 35 53 N, 14 30 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Marshall Islands
  name: Majuro
  geographic coordinates: 7 06 N, 171 23 E
  time difference: UTC+12 (17 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Mauritania
  name: Nouakchott
  geographic coordinates: 18 07 N, 16 02 W
  time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Mauritius
  name: Port Louis
  geographic coordinates: 20 09 S, 57 29 E
  time difference: UTC+4 (9 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Mayotte
  name: Mamoudzou
  geographic coordinates: 12 46 S, 45 13 E
  time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Mexico
  name: Mexico (Distrito Federal)
  geographic coordinates: 19 26 N, 99 08 W
  time difference: UTC-6 (1 hour behind Washington, DC during Standard
  Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins first Sunday in April; ends last
  Sunday in October
  note: Mexico is divided into three time zones

Micronesia, Federated States of
  name: Palikir
  geographic coordinates: 6 55 N, 158 09 E
  time difference: UTC+11 (16 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Moldova
  name: Chisinau (Kishinev)
  note: pronounced kee-shee-now
  geographic coordinates: 47 00 N, 28 51 E
  time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Monaco
  name: Monaco
  geographic coordinates: 43 44 N, 7 25 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Mongolia
  name: Ulaanbaatar
  geographic coordinates: 47 55 N, 106 55 E
  time difference: UTC+8 (13 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Montenegro
  name: Podgorica
  geographic coordinates: 42 26 N, 19 16 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1 hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Montserrat
  name: Plymouth
  geographic coordinates: 16 42 N, 62 13 W
  time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  note: Plymouth was abandoned in 1997 because of volcanic activity;
  interim government buildings have been built at Brades Estate in the
  Carr's Bay/Little Bay vicinity at the northwest end of Montserrat

Morocco
  name: Rabat
  geographic coordinates: 34 01 N, 6 49 W
  time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Mozambique
  name: Maputo
  geographic coordinates: 25 57 S, 32 35 E
  time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Namibia
  name: Windhoek
  geographic coordinates: 22 34 S, 17 05 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins first Sunday in September; ends
  first Sunday in April

Nauru
  no official capital; government offices in Yaren District
  time difference: UTC+12 (17 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Nepal
  name: Kathmandu
  geographic coordinates: 27 43 N, 85 19 E
  time difference: UTC+5.75 (10.75 hours ahead of Washington, DC
  during Standard Time)

Netherlands
  name: Amsterdam
  geographic coordinates: 52 23 N, 4 54 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October
  note: The Hague is the seat of government; time descriptions apply
  to the continental Netherlands only, not to the Caribbean components

Netherlands Antilles
  name: Willemstad (on Curacao)
  geographic coordinates: 12 06 N, 68 56 W
  time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

New Caledonia
  name: Noumea
  geographic coordinates: 22 16 S, 166 27 E
  time difference: UTC+11 (16 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

New Zealand
  name: Wellington
  geographic coordinates: 41 28 S, 174 51 E
  time difference: UTC+12 (17 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins first Sunday in October; ends
  third Sunday in March
  note: New Zealand is divided into two time zones, including Chatham
  Island

Nicaragua
  name: Managua
  geographic coordinates: 12 09 N, 86 17 W
  time difference: UTC-6 (1 hour behind Washington, DC during Standard
  Time)

Niger
  name: Niamey
  geographic coordinates: 13 31 N, 2 07 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Nigeria
  name: Abuja
  geographic coordinates: 9 05 N, 7 32 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Niue
  name: Alofi
  geographic coordinates: 19 01 S, 169 55 W
  time difference: UTC-11 (6 hours behind Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Norfolk Island
  name: Kingston
  geographic coordinates: 29 03 S, 167 58 E
  time difference: UTC+11.5 (16.5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Northern Mariana Islands
  name: Saipan
  geographic coordinates: 15 12 N, 145 45 E
  time difference: UTC+10 (15 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Norway
  name: Oslo
  geographic coordinates: 59 55 N, 10 45 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Oman
  name: Muscat
  geographic coordinates: 23 37 N, 58 35 E
  time difference: UTC+4 (9 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Pakistan
  name: Islamabad
  geographic coordinates: 33 42 N, 73 10 E
  time difference: UTC+5 (10 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Palau
  name: Melekeok
  geographic coordinates: 7 29 N, 134 38 E
  time difference: UTC+9 (14 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Panama
  name: Panama
  geographic coordinates: 8 58 N, 79 32 W
  time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard
  Time)

Papua New Guinea
  name: Port Moresby
  geographic coordinates: 9 30 S, 147 10 E
  time difference: UTC+10 (15 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Paraguay
  name: Asuncion
  geographic coordinates: 25 16 S, 57 40 W
  time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Peru
  name: Lima
  geographic coordinates: 12 03 S, 77 03 W
  time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard
  Time)

Philippines
  name: Manila
  geographic coordinates: 14 35 N, 121 00 E
  time difference: UTC+8 (13 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Pitcairn Islands
  name: Adamstown
  geographic coordinates: 25 04 S, 130 05 W
  time difference: UTC-9 (4 hours behind Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Poland
  name: Warsaw
  geographic coordinates: 52 15 N, 21 00 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Portugal
  name: Lisbon
  geographic coordinates: 38 43 N, 9 08 W
  time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Puerto Rico
  name: San Juan
  geographic coordinates: 18 28 N, 66 07 W
  time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Qatar
  name: Doha
  geographic coordinates: 25 17 N, 51 32 E
  time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Romania
  name: Bucharest
  geographic coordinates: 44 26 N, 26 06 E
  time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Russia
  name: Moscow
  geographic coordinates: 55 45 N, 37 35 E
  time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October
  note: Russia is divided into 11 time zones

Rwanda
  name: Kigali
  geographic coordinates: 1 57 S, 30 04 E
  time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Saint Barthelemy
  name: Gustavia
  geographic coordinates: 17 53 N, 62 51 W
  time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC, during
  Standard Time)

Saint Helena
  name: Jamestown
  geographic coordinates: 15 56 S, 5 44 W
  time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  name: Basseterre
  geographic coordinates: 17 18 N, 62 43 W
  time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Saint Lucia
  name: Castries
  geographic coordinates: 14 01 N, 61 00 W
  time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Saint Martin
  name: Marigot
  geographical coordinates: 18 04 N, 63 05 W
  time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour behind Washington, DC, during
  Standard Time)
  daylight savings: +1 hour

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  name: Saint-Pierre
  geographic coordinates: 46 46 N, 56 11 W
  time difference: UTC-3 (2 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins second Sunday in March; ends
  first Sunday in November

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  name: Kingstown
  geographic coordinates: 13 09 N, 61 14 W
  time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Samoa
  name: Apia
  geographic coordinates: 13 50 S, 171 44 W
  time difference: UTC-11 (6 hours behind Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

San Marino
  name: San Marino
  geographic coordinates: 43 56 N, 12 25 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Sao Tome and Principe
  name: Sao Tome
  geographic coordinates: 0 12 N, 6 39 E
  time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Saudi Arabia
  name: Riyadh
  geographic coordinates: 24 38 N, 46 43 E
  time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Senegal
  name: Dakar
  geographic coordinates: 14 40 N, 17 26 W
  time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Serbia
  name: Belgrade (Beograd)
  geographic coordinates: 44 50 N, 20 30 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Seychelles
  name: Victoria
  geographic coordinates: 4 38 S, 55 27 E
  time difference: UTC+4 (9 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Sierra Leone
  name: Freetown
  geographic coordinates: 8 30 N, 13 15 W
  time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Singapore
  name: Singapore
  geographic coordinates: 1 17 N, 103 51 E
  time difference: UTC+8 (13 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Slovakia
  name: Bratislava
  geographic coordinates: 48 09 N, 17 07 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Slovenia
  name: Ljubljana
  geographic coordinates: 46 03 N, 14 31 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Solomon Islands
  name: Honiara
  geographic coordinates: 9 26 S, 159 57 E
  time difference: UTC+11 (16 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Somalia
  name: Mogadishu
  geographic coordinates: 2 04 N, 45 22 E
  time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

South Africa
  name: Pretoria (administrative capital)
  geographic coordinates: 25 42 S, 28 13 E
  time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  note: Cape Town (legislative capital); Bloemfontein (judicial
  capital)

Spain
  name: Madrid
  geographic coordinates: 40 24 N, 3 41 W
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October
  note: Spain is divided into two time zones including the Canary
  Islands

Sri Lanka
  name: Colombo
  geographic coordinates: 6 56 N, 79 51 E
  time difference: UTC+5.5 (10.5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  note: Sri Jayewardenepura Kotte (legislative capital)

Sudan
  name: Khartoum
  geographic coordinates: 15 36 N, 32 32 E
  time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Suriname
  name: Paramaribo
  geographic coordinates: 5 50 N, 55 10 W
  time difference: UTC-3 (2 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Svalbard
  name: Longyearbyen
  geographic coordinates: 78 13 N, 15 33 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Swaziland
  name: Mbabane
  geographic coordinates: 26 18 S, 31 06 E
  time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  note: Lobamba (royal and legislative capital)

Sweden
  name: Stockholm
  geographic coordinates: 59 20 N, 18 03 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Switzerland
  name: Bern
  geographic coordinates: 46 57 N, 7 26 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Syria
  name: Damascus
  geographic coordinates: 33 30 N, 36 18 E
  time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins 1 April; ends 30 September

Taiwan
  name: Taipei
  geographic coordinates: 25 03 N, 121 30 E
  time difference: UTC+8 (13 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Tajikistan
  name: Dushanbe
  geographic coordinates: 38 35 N, 68 48 E
  time difference: UTC+5 (10 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Tanzania
  name: Dar es Salaam
  geographic coordinates: 6 48 S, 39 17 E
  time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  note: legislative offices have been transferred to Dodoma, which is
  planned as the new national capital; the National Assembly now meets
  there on a regular basis

Thailand
  name: Bangkok
  geographic coordinates: 13 45 N, 100 31 E
  time difference: UTC+7 (12 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Timor-Leste
  name: Dili
  geographic coordinates: 8 35 S, 125 36 E
  time difference: UTC+9 (14 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Togo
  name: Lome
  geographic coordinates: 6 08 N, 1 13 E
  time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Tokelau
  none; each atoll has its own administrative center
  time difference: UTC-11 (6 hours behind Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Tonga
  name: Nuku'alofa
  geographic coordinates: 21 08 S, 175 12 W
  time difference: UTC+13 (18 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Trinidad and Tobago
  name: Port-of-Spain
  geographic coordinates: 10 39 N, 61 31 W
  time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Tunisia
  name: Tunis
  geographic coordinates: 36 48 N, 10 11 E
  time difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Turkey
  name: Ankara
  geographic coordinates: 39 56 N, 32 52 E
  time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

Turkmenistan
  name: Ashgabat (Ashkhabad)
  geographic coordinates: 37 57 N, 58 23 E
  time difference: UTC+5 (10 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  name: Grand Turk (Cockburn Town)
  geographic coordinates: 21 28 N, 71 08 W
  time difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC during Standard
  Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins first Sunday in April; ends last
  Sunday in October

Tuvalu
  name: Funafuti
  geographic coordinates: 8 30 S, 179 12 E
  time difference: UTC+12 (17 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  note: administrative offices are located in Vaiaku Village on
  Fongafale Islet

Uganda
  name: Kampala
  geographic coordinates: 0 19 N, 32 25 E
  time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Ukraine
  name: Kyiv (Kiev)
  geographic coordinates: 50 26 N, 30 31 E
  time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October

United Arab Emirates
  name: Abu Dhabi
  geographic coordinates: 24 28 N, 54 22 E
  time difference: UTC+4 (9 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

United Kingdom
  name: London
  geographic coordinates: 51 30 N, 0 10 W
  time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last
  Sunday in October
  note: applies to the United Kingdom proper, not to its overseas
  dependencies or territories

United States
  name: Washington, DC
  geographic coordinates: 38 53 N, 77 02 W
  time difference: UTC-5 (during Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins second Sunday in March; ends
  first Sunday in November
  note: the 50 United States cover six time zones

Uruguay
  name: Montevideo
  geographic coordinates: 34 53 S, 56 11 W
  time difference: UTC-3 (2 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)
  daylight saving time: +1hr, begins second Sunday in October; ends
  second Sunday in March

Uzbekistan
  name: Tashkent (Toshkent)
  geographic coordinates: 41 20 N, 69 18 E
  time difference: UTC+5 (10 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Vanuatu
  name: Port-Vila (on Efate)
  geographic coordinates: 17 44 S, 168 19 E
  time difference: UTC+11 (16 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Venezuela
  name: Caracas
  geographic coordinates: 10 30 N, 66 56 W
  time difference: UTC-4.5 (half an hour ahead of Washington, DC
  during Standard Time)

Vietnam
  name: Hanoi
  geographic coordinates: 21 02 N, 105 51 E
  time difference: UTC+7 (12 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Virgin Islands
  name: Charlotte Amalie
  geographic coordinates: 18 21 N, 64 56 W
  time difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Wallis and Futuna
  name: Mata-Utu (on Ile Uvea)
  geographic coordinates: 13 57 S, 171 56 W
  time difference: UTC+12 (17 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Western Sahara
  none
  time difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Yemen
  name: Sanaa
  geographic coordinates: 15 21 N, 44 12 E
  time difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Zambia
  name: Lusaka
  geographic coordinates: 15 25 S, 28 17 E
  time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

Zimbabwe
  name: Harare
  geographic coordinates: 17 50 S, 31 03 E
  time difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC during
  Standard Time)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2058  Imports - commodities (%)


Afghanistan
  capital goods, food, textiles, petroleum products

Albania
  machinery and equipment, foodstuffs, textiles, chemicals

Algeria
  capital goods, foodstuffs, consumer goods

American Samoa
  materials for canneries 56%, food 8%, petroleum
  products 7%, machinery and parts 6% (2004 est.)

Andorra
  consumer goods, food, electricity

Angola
  machinery and electrical equipment, vehicles and spare parts;
  medicines, food, textiles, military goods

Anguilla
  fuels, foodstuffs, manufactures, chemicals, trucks, textiles

Antigua and Barbuda
  food and live animals, machinery and transport
  equipment, manufactures, chemicals, oil

Argentina
  machinery, motor vehicles, petroleum and natural gas,
  organic chemicals, plastics

Armenia
  natural gas, petroleum, tobacco products, foodstuffs,
  diamonds

Aruba
  machinery and electrical equipment, crude oil for refining and
  reexport, chemicals; foodstuffs

Australia
  machinery and transport equipment, computers and office
  machines, telecommunication equipment and parts; crude oil and
  petroleum products

Austria
  machinery and equipment, motor vehicles, chemicals, metal
  goods, oil and oil products; foodstuffs

Azerbaijan
  machinery and equipment, oil products, foodstuffs,
  metals, chemicals

Bahamas, The
  machinery and transport equipment, manufactures,
  chemicals, mineral fuels; food and live animals

Bahrain
  crude oil, machinery, chemicals

Bangladesh
  machinery and equipment, chemicals, iron and steel,
  textiles, foodstuffs, petroleum products, cement

Barbados
  consumer goods, machinery, foodstuffs, construction
  materials, chemicals, fuel, electrical components

Belarus
  mineral products, machinery and equipment, chemicals,
  foodstuffs, metals

Belgium
  machinery and equipment, chemicals, diamonds,
  pharmaceuticals, foodstuffs, transportation equipment, oil products

Belize
  machinery and transport equipment, manufactured goods; fuels,
  chemicals, pharmaceuticals; food, beverages, tobacco

Benin
  foodstuffs, capital goods, petroleum products

Bermuda
  clothing, fuels, machinery and transport equipment,
  construction materials, chemicals, food and live animals

Bhutan
  fuel and lubricants, grain, aircraft, machinery and parts,
  vehicles, fabrics, rice

Bolivia
  petroleum products, plastics, paper, aircraft and aircraft
  parts, prepared foods, automobiles, insecticides, soybeans

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  machinery and equipment, chemicals, fuels,
  foodstuffs

Botswana
  foodstuffs, machinery, electrical goods, transport
  equipment, textiles, fuel and petroleum products, wood and paper
  products, metal and metal products

Brazil
  machinery, electrical and transport equipment, chemical
  products, oil, automotive parts, electronics

British Virgin Islands
  building materials, automobiles, foodstuffs,
  machinery

Brunei
  machinery and transport equipment, manufactured goods, food,
  chemicals

Bulgaria
  machinery and equipment; metals and ores; chemicals and
  plastics; fuels, minerals, and raw materials

Burkina Faso
  capital goods, foodstuffs, petroleum

Burma
  fabric, petroleum products, fertilizer, plastics, machinery,
  transport equipment; cement, construction materials, crude oil; food
  products, edible oil

Burundi
  capital goods, petroleum products, foodstuffs

Cambodia
  petroleum products, cigarettes, gold, construction
  materials, machinery, motor vehicles, pharmaceutical products

Cameroon
  machinery, electrical equipment, transport equipment, fuel,
  food

Canada
  machinery and equipment, motor vehicles and parts, crude oil,
  chemicals, electricity, durable consumer goods

Cape Verde
  foodstuffs, industrial products, transport equipment,
  fuels

Cayman Islands
  foodstuffs, manufactured goods

Central African Republic
  food, textiles, petroleum products,
  machinery, electrical equipment, motor vehicles, chemicals,
  pharmaceuticals

Chad
  machinery and transportation equipment, industrial goods,
  foodstuffs, textiles

Chile
  petroleum and petroleum products, chemicals, electrical and
  telecommunications equipment, industrial machinery, vehicles,
  natural gas

China
  machinery and equipment, oil and mineral fuels, plastics, LED
  screens, data processing equipment, optical and medical equipment,
  organic chemicals, steel, copper

Christmas Island
  consumer goods

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  foodstuffs

Colombia
  industrial equipment, transportation equipment, consumer
  goods, chemicals, paper products, fuels, electricity

Comoros
  rice and other foodstuffs, consumer goods, petroleum
  products, cement, transport equipment

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  foodstuffs, mining and other
  machinery, transport equipment, fuels

Congo, Republic of the
  capital equipment, construction materials,
  foodstuffs

Cook Islands
  foodstuffs, textiles, fuels, timber, capital goods

Costa Rica
  raw materials, consumer goods, capital equipment,
  petroleum, construction materials

Cote d'Ivoire
  fuel, capital equipment, foodstuffs

Croatia
  machinery, transport and electrical equipment; chemicals,
  fuels and lubricants; foodstuffs

Cuba
  petroleum, food, machinery and equipment, chemicals

Cyprus
  consumer goods, petroleum and lubricants, intermediate goods,
  machinery, transport equipment

Czech Republic
  machinery and transport equipment 46%, raw materials
  and fuels 15%, chemicals 10% (2003)

Denmark
  machinery and equipment, raw materials and semimanufactures
  for industry, chemicals, grain and foodstuffs, consumer goods

Djibouti
  foods, beverages, transport equipment, chemicals, petroleum
  products

Dominica
  manufactured goods, machinery and equipment, food, chemicals

Dominican Republic
  foodstuffs, petroleum, cotton and fabrics,
  chemicals and pharmaceuticals

Ecuador
  industrial materials, fuels and lubricants, nondurable
  consumer goods

Egypt
  machinery and equipment, foodstuffs, chemicals, wood products,
  fuels

El Salvador
  raw materials, consumer goods, capital goods, fuels,
  foodstuffs, petroleum, electricity

Equatorial Guinea
  petroleum sector equipment, other equipment

Eritrea
  machinery, petroleum products, food, manufactured goods

Estonia
  machinery and equipment 33.5%, chemical products 11.6%,
  textiles 10.3%, foodstuffs 9.4%, transportation equipment 8.9% (2001)

Ethiopia
  food and live animals, petroleum and petroleum products,
  chemicals, machinery, motor vehicles, cereals, textiles

European Union
  machinery, vehicles, aircraft, plastics, crude oil,
  chemicals, textiles, metals, foodstuffs, clothing

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  fuel, food and drink, building
  materials, clothing

Faroe Islands
  consumer goods 36%, raw materials and
  semi-manufactures 32%, machinery and transport equipment 29%, fuels,
  fish, salt (1999)

Fiji
  manufactured goods, machinery and transport equipment,
  petroleum products, food, chemicals

Finland
  foodstuffs, petroleum and petroleum products, chemicals,
  transport equipment, iron and steel, machinery, textile yarn and
  fabrics, grains

France
  machinery and equipment, vehicles, crude oil, aircraft,
  plastics, chemicals

French Polynesia
  fuels, foodstuffs, machinery and equipment

Gabon
  machinery and equipment, foodstuffs, chemicals, construction
  materials

Gambia, The
  foodstuffs, manufactures, fuel, machinery and transport
  equipment

Gaza Strip
  food, consumer goods, construction materials

Georgia
  fuels, vehicles, machinery and parts, grain and other foods,
  pharmaceuticals

Germany
  machinery, vehicles, chemicals, foodstuffs, textiles, metals

Ghana
  capital equipment, petroleum, foodstuffs

Gibraltar
  fuels, manufactured goods, and foodstuffs

Greece
  machinery, transport equipment, fuels, chemicals

Greenland
  machinery and transport equipment, manufactured goods,
  food, petroleum products

Grenada
  food, manufactured goods, machinery, chemicals, fuel

Guam
  petroleum and petroleum products, food, manufactured goods

Guatemala
  fuels, machinery and transport equipment, construction
  materials, grain, fertilizers, electricity

Guernsey
  coal, gasoline, oil, machinery and equipment

Guinea
  petroleum products, metals, machinery, transport equipment,
  textiles, grain and other foodstuffs

Guinea-Bissau
  foodstuffs, machinery and transport equipment,
  petroleum products

Guyana
  manufactures, machinery, petroleum, food

Haiti
  food, manufactured goods, machinery and transport equipment,
  fuels, raw materials

Honduras
  machinery and transport equipment, industrial raw
  materials, chemical products, fuels, foodstuffs

Hong Kong
  raw materials and semi-manufactures, consumer goods,
  capital goods, foodstuffs, fuel (most is re-exported)

Hungary
  machinery and equipment 51.6%, other manufactures 35.7%,
  fuels and electricity 7.7%, food products 3.1%, raw materials 2.0%
  (2003)

Iceland
  machinery and equipment, petroleum products, foodstuffs,
  textiles

India
  crude oil, machinery, gems, fertilizer, chemicals

Indonesia
  machinery and equipment, chemicals, fuels, foodstuffs

Iran
  industrial raw materials and intermediate goods, capital goods,
  foodstuffs and other consumer goods, technical services

Iraq
  food, medicine, manufactures

Ireland
  data processing equipment, other machinery and equipment,
  chemicals, petroleum and petroleum products, textiles, clothing

Isle of Man
  timber, fertilizers, fish

Israel
  raw materials, military equipment, investment goods, rough
  diamonds, fuels, grain, consumer goods

Italy
  engineering products, chemicals, transport equipment, energy
  products, minerals and nonferrous metals, textiles and clothing;
  food, beverages, and tobacco

Jamaica
  food and other consumer goods, industrial supplies, fuel,
  parts and accessories of capital goods, machinery and transport
  equipment, construction materials

Japan
  machinery and equipment, fuels, foodstuffs, chemicals,
  textiles, raw materials

Jersey
  machinery and transport equipment, manufactured goods,
  foodstuffs, mineral fuels, chemicals

Jordan
  crude oil, textile fabrics, machinery, transport equipment,
  manufactured goods

Kazakhstan
  machinery and equipment, metal products, foodstuffs

Kenya
  machinery and transportation equipment, petroleum products,
  motor vehicles, iron and steel, resins and plastics

Kiribati
  foodstuffs, machinery and equipment, miscellaneous
  manufactured goods, fuel

Korea, North
  petroleum, coking coal, machinery and equipment,
  textiles, grain

Korea, South
  machinery, electronics and electronic equipment, oil,
  steel, transport equipment, organic chemicals, plastics

Kosovo
  foodstuffs, wood, petroleum, chemicals, machinery and
  electrical equipment

Kuwait
  food, construction materials, vehicles and parts, clothing

Kyrgyzstan
  oil and gas, machinery and equipment, chemicals,
  foodstuffs

Laos
  machinery and equipment, vehicles, fuel, consumer goods

Latvia
  machinery and equipment, chemicals, fuels, vehicles

Lebanon
  petroleum products, cars, medicinal products, clothing, meat
  and live animals, consumer goods, paper, textile fabrics, tobacco,
  electrical machinery

Lesotho
  food; building materials, vehicles, machinery, medicines,
  petroleum products

Liberia
  fuels, chemicals, machinery, transportation equipment,
  manufactured goods; foodstuffs

Libya
  machinery, semi-finished goods, food, transport equipment,
  consumer products

Liechtenstein
  agricultural products, raw materials, energy products,
  machinery, metal goods, textiles, foodstuffs, motor vehicles

Lithuania
  mineral products, machinery and equipment, transport
  equipment, chemicals, textiles and clothing, metals

Luxembourg
  minerals, metals, foodstuffs, quality consumer goods

Macau
  raw materials and semi-manufactured goods, consumer goods
  (foodstuffs, beverages, tobacco), capital goods, mineral fuels and
  oils

Macedonia
  machinery and equipment, automobiles, chemicals, fuels,
  food products

Madagascar
  capital goods, petroleum, consumer goods, food

Malawi
  food, petroleum products, semimanufactures, consumer goods,
  transportation equipment

Malaysia
  electronics, machinery, petroleum products, plastics,
  vehicles, iron and steel products, chemicals

Maldives
  petroleum products, ships, foodstuffs, clothing,
  intermediate and capital goods

Mali
  petroleum, machinery and equipment, construction materials,
  foodstuffs, textiles

Malta
  machinery and transport equipment, manufactured and
  semi-manufactured goods; food, drink, tobacco

Marshall Islands
  foodstuffs, machinery and equipment, fuels,
  beverages and tobacco

Mauritania
  machinery and equipment, petroleum products, capital
  goods, foodstuffs, consumer goods

Mauritius
  manufactured goods, capital equipment, foodstuffs,
  petroleum products, chemicals

Mayotte
  food, machinery and equipment, transportation equipment,
  metals, chemicals

Mexico
  metalworking machines, steel mill products, agricultural
  machinery, electrical equipment, car parts for assembly, repair
  parts for motor vehicles, aircraft, and aircraft parts

Micronesia, Federated States of
  food, manufactured goods, machinery
  and equipment, beverages

Moldova
  mineral products and fuel, machinery and equipment,
  chemicals, textiles

Mongolia
  machinery and equipment, fuel, cars, food products,
  industrial consumer goods, chemicals, building materials, sugar, tea

Montserrat
  machinery and transportation equipment, foodstuffs,
  manufactured goods, fuels, lubricants, and related materials

Morocco
  crude petroleum, textile fabric, telecommunications
  equipment, wheat, gas and electricity, transistors, plastics

Mozambique
  machinery and equipment, vehicles, fuel, chemicals, metal
  products, foodstuffs, textiles

Namibia
  foodstuffs; petroleum products and fuel, machinery and
  equipment, chemicals

Nauru
  food, fuel, manufactures, building materials, machinery

Nepal
  gold, machinery and equipment, petroleum products, fertilizer

Netherlands
  machinery and transport equipment, chemicals, fuels,
  foodstuffs, clothing

Netherlands Antilles
  crude petroleum, food, manufactures

New Caledonia
  machinery and equipment, fuels, chemicals, foodstuffs

New Zealand
  machinery and equipment, vehicles and aircraft,
  petroleum, electronics, textiles, plastics

Nicaragua
  consumer goods, machinery and equipment, raw materials,
  petroleum products

Niger
  foodstuffs, machinery, vehicles and parts, petroleum, cereals

Nigeria
  machinery, chemicals, transport equipment, manufactured
  goods, food and live animals

Niue
  food, live animals, manufactured goods, machinery, fuels,
  lubricants, chemicals, drugs

Norfolk Island
  NA

Northern Mariana Islands
  food, construction equipment and materials,
  petroleum products

Norway
  machinery and equipment, chemicals, metals, foodstuffs

Oman
  machinery and transport equipment, manufactured goods, food,
  livestock, lubricants

Pakistan
  petroleum, petroleum products, machinery, plastics,
  transportation equipment, edible oils, paper and paperboard, iron
  and steel, tea

Palau
  machinery and equipment, fuels, metals; foodstuffs

Panama
  capital goods, foodstuffs, consumer goods, chemicals

Papua New Guinea
  machinery and transport equipment, manufactured
  goods, food, fuels, chemicals

Paraguay
  road vehicles, consumer goods, tobacco, petroleum products,
  electrical machinery, tractors, chemicals, vehicle parts

Peru
  petroleum and petroleum products, plastics, machinery,
  vehicles, iron and steel, wheat, paper

Philippines
  electronic products, mineral fuels, machinery and
  transport equipment, iron and steel, textile fabrics, grains,
  chemicals, plastic

Pitcairn Islands
  fuel oil, machinery, building materials, flour,
  sugar, other foodstuffs

Poland
  machinery and transport equipment 38%, intermediate
  manufactured goods 21%, chemicals 14.8%, minerals, fuels,
  lubricants, and related materials 9.1% (2003)

Portugal
  agricultural products, food products, oil products,
  chemical products, plastics and rubber, skins and leather, wood and
  cork, wood pulp and paper, textile materials, clothing, footwear,
  minerals and mineral products, base metals, machinery and tools,
  vehicles and other transport material, and optical and precision
  instruments, computer accessories and parts, semi-conductors and
  related devices, household goods, passenger cars new and used, and
  wine products

Puerto Rico
  chemicals, machinery and equipment, clothing, food,
  fish, petroleum products

Qatar
  machinery and transport equipment, food, chemicals

Romania
  machinery and equipment, fuels and minerals, chemicals,
  textile and products, metals, agricultural products

Russia
  machinery and equipment, consumer goods, medicines, meat,
  sugar, semifinished metal products

Rwanda
  foodstuffs, machinery and equipment, steel, petroleum
  products, cement and construction material

Saint Helena
  food, beverages, tobacco, fuel oils, animal feed,
  building materials, motor vehicles and parts, machinery and parts

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  machinery, manufactures, food, fuels

Saint Lucia
  food 23%, manufactured goods 21%, machinery and
  transportation equipment 19%, chemicals, fuels

Saint Martin
  crude petroleum, food, manufactured items

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  meat, clothing, fuel, electrical
  equipment, machinery, building materials

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  foodstuffs, machinery and
  equipment, chemicals and fertilizers, minerals and fuels

Samoa
  machinery and equipment, industrial supplies, foodstuffs

San Marino
  wide variety of consumer manufactures, food

Sao Tome and Principe
  machinery and electrical equipment, food
  products, petroleum products

Saudi Arabia
  machinery and equipment, foodstuffs, chemicals, motor
  vehicles, textiles

Senegal
  food and beverages, capital goods, fuels

Seychelles
  machinery and equipment, foodstuffs, petroleum products,
  chemicals

Sierra Leone
  foodstuffs, machinery and equipment, fuels and
  lubricants, chemicals

Singapore
  machinery and equipment, mineral fuels, chemicals,
  foodstuffs

Slovakia
  machinery and transport equipment 41.1%, intermediate
  manufactured goods 19.3%, fuels 12.3%, chemicals 9.8%, miscellaneous
  manufactured goods 10.2% (2003)

Slovenia
  machinery and transport equipment, manufactured goods,
  chemicals, fuels and lubricants, food

Solomon Islands
  food, plant and equipment, manufactured goods,
  fuels, chemicals

Somalia
  manufactures, petroleum products, foodstuffs, construction
  materials, qat

South Africa
  machinery and equipment, chemicals, petroleum products,
  scientific instruments, foodstuffs

Spain
  machinery and equipment, fuels, chemicals, semifinished goods,
  foodstuffs, consumer goods, measuring and medical control instruments

Sri Lanka
  textile fabrics, mineral products, petroleum, foodstuffs,
  machinery and transportation equipment

Sudan
  foodstuffs, manufactured goods, refinery and transport
  equipment, medicines and chemicals, textiles, wheat

Suriname
  capital equipment, petroleum, foodstuffs, cotton, consumer
  goods

Swaziland
  motor vehicles, machinery, transport equipment,
  foodstuffs, petroleum products, chemicals

Sweden
  machinery, petroleum and petroleum products, chemicals, motor
  vehicles, iron and steel; foodstuffs, clothing

Switzerland
  machinery, chemicals, vehicles, metals; agricultural
  products, textiles

Syria
  machinery and transport equipment, electric power machinery,
  food and livestock, metal and metal products, chemicals and chemical
  products, plastics, yarn, paper

Taiwan
  electronic and electrical products, machinery, petroleum,
  precision instruments, organic chemicals, metals (2002)

Tajikistan
  electricity, petroleum products, aluminum oxide,
  machinery and equipment, foodstuffs

Tanzania
  consumer goods, machinery and transportation equipment,
  industrial raw materials, crude oil

Thailand
  capital goods, intermediate goods and raw materials,
  consumer goods, fuels

Timor-Leste
  food, gasoline, kerosene, machinery

Togo
  machinery and equipment, foodstuffs, petroleum products

Tokelau
  foodstuffs, building materials, fuel

Tonga
  foodstuffs, machinery and transport equipment, fuels, chemicals

Trinidad and Tobago
  mineral fuels, lubricants, machinery,
  transportation equipment, manufactured goods, food, live animals,
  grain

Tunisia
  textiles, machinery and equipment, hydrocarbons, chemicals,
  foodstuffs

Turkey
  machinery, chemicals, semi-finished goods, fuels, transport
  equipment

Turkmenistan
  machinery and equipment, chemicals, foodstuffs

Turks and Caicos Islands
  food and beverages, tobacco, clothing,
  manufactures, construction materials

Tuvalu
  food, animals, mineral fuels, machinery, manufactured goods

Uganda
  capital equipment, vehicles, petroleum, medical supplies;
  cereals

Ukraine
  energy, machinery and equipment, chemicals

United Arab Emirates
  machinery and transport equipment, chemicals,
  food

United Kingdom
  manufactured goods, machinery, fuels; foodstuffs

United States
  agricultural products 4.9%, industrial supplies 32.9%
  (crude oil 8.2%), capital goods 30.4% (computers, telecommunications
  equipment, motor vehicle parts, office machines, electric power
  machinery), consumer goods 31.8% (automobiles, clothing, medicines,
  furniture, toys) (2003)

Uruguay
  crude petroleum and petroleum products, machinery,
  chemicals, road vehicles, paper, plastics

Uzbekistan
  machinery and equipment, foodstuffs, chemicals, ferrous
  and non-ferrous metals

Vanuatu
  machinery and equipment, foodstuffs, fuels

Venezuela
  raw materials, machinery and equipment, transport
  equipment, construction materials

Vietnam
  machinery and equipment, petroleum products, fertilizer,
  steel products, raw cotton, grain, cement, motorcycles

Virgin Islands
  crude oil, foodstuffs, consumer goods, building
  materials

Wallis and Futuna
  chemicals, machinery, passenger ships, consumer
  goods

West Bank
  food, consumer goods, construction materials

Western Sahara
  fuel for fishing fleet, foodstuffs

World
  the whole range of industrial and agricultural goods and
  services
  top ten - share of world trade: see listing for exports

Yemen
  food and live animals, machinery and equipment, chemicals

Zambia
  machinery, transportation equipment, petroleum products,
  electricity, fertilizer; foodstuffs, clothing

Zimbabwe
  machinery and transport equipment, other manufactures,
  chemicals, fuels

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2059  Climate


Afghanistan
  arid to semiarid; cold winters and hot summers

Akrotiri
  temperate; Mediterranean with hot, dry summers and cool
  winters

Albania
  mild temperate; cool, cloudy, wet winters; hot, clear, dry
  summers; interior is cooler and wetter

Algeria
  arid to semiarid; mild, wet winters with hot, dry summers
  along coast; drier with cold winters and hot summers on high
  plateau; sirocco is a hot, dust/sand-laden wind especially common in
  summer

American Samoa
  tropical marine, moderated by southeast trade winds;
  annual rainfall averages about 3 m; rainy season (November to
  April), dry season (May to October); little seasonal temperature
  variation

Andorra
  temperate; snowy, cold winters and warm, dry summers

Angola
  semiarid in south and along coast to Luanda; north has cool,
  dry season (May to October) and hot, rainy season (November to April)

Anguilla
  tropical; moderated by northeast trade winds

Antarctica
  severe low temperatures vary with latitude, elevation,
  and distance from the ocean; East Antarctica is colder than West
  Antarctica because of its higher elevation; Antarctic Peninsula has
  the most moderate climate; higher temperatures occur in January
  along the coast and average slightly below freezing

Antigua and Barbuda
  tropical maritime; little seasonal temperature
  variation

Arctic Ocean
  polar climate characterized by persistent cold and
  relatively narrow annual temperature ranges; winters characterized
  by continuous darkness, cold and stable weather conditions, and
  clear skies; summers characterized by continuous daylight, damp and
  foggy weather, and weak cyclones with rain or snow

Argentina
  mostly temperate; arid in southeast; subantarctic in
  southwest

Armenia
  highland continental, hot summers, cold winters

Aruba
  tropical marine; little seasonal temperature variation

Ashmore and Cartier Islands
  tropical

Atlantic Ocean
  tropical cyclones (hurricanes) develop off the coast
  of Africa near Cape Verde and move westward into the Caribbean Sea;
  hurricanes can occur from May to December, but are most frequent
  from August to November

Australia
  generally arid to semiarid; temperate in south and east;
  tropical in north

Austria
  temperate; continental, cloudy; cold winters with frequent
  rain and some snow in lowlands and snow in mountains; moderate
  summers with occasional showers

Azerbaijan
  dry, semiarid steppe

Bahamas, The
  tropical marine; moderated by warm waters of Gulf Stream

Bahrain
  arid; mild, pleasant winters; very hot, humid summers

Bangladesh
  tropical; mild winter (October to March); hot, humid
  summer (March to June); humid, warm rainy monsoon (June to October)

Barbados
  tropical; rainy season (June to October)

Belarus
  cold winters, cool and moist summers; transitional between
  continental and maritime

Belgium
  temperate; mild winters, cool summers; rainy, humid, cloudy

Belize
  tropical; very hot and humid; rainy season (May to November);
  dry season (February to May)

Benin
  tropical; hot, humid in south; semiarid in north

Bermuda
  subtropical; mild, humid; gales, strong winds common in
  winter

Bhutan
  varies; tropical in southern plains; cool winters and hot
  summers in central valleys; severe winters and cool summers in
  Himalayas

Bolivia
  varies with altitude; humid and tropical to cold and semiarid

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  hot summers and cold winters; areas of high
  elevation have short, cool summers and long, severe winters; mild,
  rainy winters along coast

Botswana
  semiarid; warm winters and hot summers

Bouvet Island
  antarctic

Brazil
  mostly tropical, but temperate in south

British Indian Ocean Territory
  tropical marine; hot, humid,
  moderated by trade winds

British Virgin Islands
  subtropical; humid; temperatures moderated by
  trade winds

Brunei
  tropical; hot, humid, rainy

Bulgaria
  temperate; cold, damp winters; hot, dry summers

Burkina Faso
  tropical; warm, dry winters; hot, wet summers

Burma
  tropical monsoon; cloudy, rainy, hot, humid summers (southwest
  monsoon, June to September); less cloudy, scant rainfall, mild
  temperatures, lower humidity during winter (northeast monsoon,
  December to April)

Burundi
  equatorial; high plateau with considerable altitude
  variation (772 m to 2,670 m above sea level); average annual
  temperature varies with altitude from 23 to 17 degrees centigrade
  but is generally moderate as the average altitude is about 1,700 m;
  average annual rainfall is about 150 cm; two wet seasons (February
  to May and September to November), and two dry seasons (June to
  August and December to January)

Cambodia
  tropical; rainy, monsoon season (May to November); dry
  season (December to April); little seasonal temperature variation

Cameroon
  varies with terrain, from tropical along coast to semiarid
  and hot in north

Canada
  varies from temperate in south to subarctic and arctic in
  north

Cape Verde
  temperate; warm, dry summer; precipitation meager and
  very erratic

Cayman Islands
  tropical marine; warm, rainy summers (May to October)
  and cool, relatively dry winters (November to April)

Central African Republic
  tropical; hot, dry winters; mild to hot,
  wet summers

Chad
  tropical in south, desert in north

Chile
  temperate; desert in north; Mediterranean in central region;
  cool and damp in south

China
  extremely diverse; tropical in south to subarctic in north

Christmas Island
  tropical with a wet season (December to April) and
  dry season; heat and humidity moderated by trade winds

Clipperton Island
  tropical; humid, average temperature 20-32 degrees
  C, wet season (May to October)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  tropical with high humidity, moderated by
  the southeast trade winds for about nine months of the year

Colombia
  tropical along coast and eastern plains; cooler in highlands

Comoros
  tropical marine; rainy season (November to May)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  tropical; hot and humid in
  equatorial river basin; cooler and drier in southern highlands;
  cooler and wetter in eastern highlands; north of Equator - wet
  season (April to October), dry season (December to February); south
  of Equator - wet season (November to March), dry season (April to
  October)

Congo, Republic of the
  tropical; rainy season (March to June); dry
  season (June to October); persistent high temperatures and humidity;
  particularly enervating climate astride the Equator

Cook Islands
  tropical oceanic; moderated by trade winds; a dry
  season from April to November and a more humid season from December
  to March

Coral Sea Islands
  tropical

Costa Rica
  tropical and subtropical; dry season (December to April);
  rainy season (May to November); cooler in highlands

Cote d'Ivoire
  tropical along coast, semiarid in far north; three
  seasons - warm and dry (November to March), hot and dry (March to
  May), hot and wet (June to October)

Croatia
  Mediterranean and continental; continental climate
  predominant with hot summers and cold winters; mild winters, dry
  summers along coast

Cuba
  tropical; moderated by trade winds; dry season (November to
  April); rainy season (May to October)

Cyprus
  temperate; Mediterranean with hot, dry summers and cool
  winters

Czech Republic
  temperate; cool summers; cold, cloudy, humid winters

Denmark
  temperate; humid and overcast; mild, windy winters and cool
  summers

Dhekelia
  temperate; Mediterranean with hot, dry summers and cool
  winters

Djibouti
  desert; torrid, dry

Dominica
  tropical; moderated by northeast trade winds; heavy rainfall

Dominican Republic
  tropical maritime; little seasonal temperature
  variation; seasonal variation in rainfall

Ecuador
  tropical along coast, becoming cooler inland at higher
  elevations; tropical in Amazonian jungle lowlands

Egypt
  desert; hot, dry summers with moderate winters

El Salvador
  tropical; rainy season (May to October); dry season
  (November to April); tropical on coast; temperate in uplands

Equatorial Guinea
  tropical; always hot, humid

Eritrea
  hot, dry desert strip along Red Sea coast; cooler and wetter
  in the central highlands (up to 61 cm of rainfall annually, heaviest
  June to September); semiarid in western hills and lowlands

Estonia
  maritime, wet, moderate winters, cool summers

Ethiopia
  tropical monsoon with wide topographic-induced variation

European Union
  cold temperate; potentially subarctic in the north to
  temperate; mild wet winters; hot dry summers in the south

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  cold marine; strong westerly
  winds, cloudy, humid; rain occurs on more than half of days in year;
  average annual rainfall is 24 inches in Stanley; occasional snow all
  year, except in January and February, but does not accumulate

Faroe Islands
  mild winters, cool summers; usually overcast; foggy,
  windy

Fiji
  tropical marine; only slight seasonal temperature variation

Finland
  cold temperate; potentially subarctic but comparatively mild
  because of moderating influence of the North Atlantic Current,
  Baltic Sea, and more than 60,000 lakes

France
  metropolitan France: generally cool winters and mild summers,
  but mild winters and hot summers along the Mediterranean; occasional
  strong, cold, dry, north-to-northwesterly wind known as mistral
  French Guiana: tropical; hot, humid; little seasonal temperature
  variation
  Guadeloupe and Martinique: subtropical tempered by trade winds;
  moderately high humidity; rainy season (June to October); vulnerable
  to devastating cyclones (hurricanes) every eight years on average
  Reunion: tropical, but temperature moderates with elevation; cool
  and dry (May to November), hot and rainy (November to April)

French Polynesia
  tropical, but moderate

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  Ile Amsterdam et Ile Saint-Paul:
  oceanic with persistent westerly winds and high humidity
  Iles Crozet: windy, cold, wet, and cloudy
  Iles Kerguelen: oceanic, cold, overcast, windy
  Iles Eparses: tropical

Gabon
  tropical; always hot, humid

Gambia, The
  tropical; hot, rainy season (June to November); cooler,
  dry season (November to May)

Gaza Strip
  temperate, mild winters, dry and warm to hot summers

Georgia
  warm and pleasant; Mediterranean-like on Black Sea coast

Germany
  temperate and marine; cool, cloudy, wet winters and summers;
  occasional warm mountain (foehn) wind

Ghana
  tropical; warm and comparatively dry along southeast coast;
  hot and humid in southwest; hot and dry in north

Gibraltar
  Mediterranean with mild winters and warm summers

Greece
  temperate; mild, wet winters; hot, dry summers

Greenland
  arctic to subarctic; cool summers, cold winters

Grenada
  tropical; tempered by northeast trade winds

Guam
  tropical marine; generally warm and humid, moderated by
  northeast trade winds; dry season (January to June), rainy season
  (July to December); little seasonal temperature variation

Guatemala
  tropical; hot, humid in lowlands; cooler in highlands

Guernsey
  temperate with mild winters and cool summers; about 50% of
  days are overcast

Guinea
  generally hot and humid; monsoonal-type rainy season (June to
  November) with southwesterly winds; dry season (December to May)
  with northeasterly harmattan winds

Guinea-Bissau
  tropical; generally hot and humid; monsoonal-type
  rainy season (June to November) with southwesterly winds; dry season
  (December to May) with northeasterly harmattan winds

Guyana
  tropical; hot, humid, moderated by northeast trade winds; two
  rainy seasons (May to August, November to January)

Haiti
  tropical; semiarid where mountains in east cut off trade winds

Heard Island and McDonald Islands
  antarctic

Holy See (Vatican City)
  temperate; mild, rainy winters (September to
  May) with hot, dry summers (May to September)

Honduras
  subtropical in lowlands, temperate in mountains

Hong Kong
  subtropical monsoon; cool and humid in winter, hot and
  rainy from spring through summer, warm and sunny in fall

Hungary
  temperate; cold, cloudy, humid winters; warm summers

Iceland
  temperate; moderated by North Atlantic Current; mild, windy
  winters; damp, cool summers

India
  varies from tropical monsoon in south to temperate in north

Indian Ocean
  northeast monsoon (December to April), southwest
  monsoon (June to October); tropical cyclones occur during May/June
  and October/November in the northern Indian Ocean and
  January/February in the southern Indian Ocean

Indonesia
  tropical; hot, humid; more moderate in highlands

Iran
  mostly arid or semiarid, subtropical along Caspian coast

Iraq
  mostly desert; mild to cool winters with dry, hot, cloudless
  summers; northern mountainous regions along Iranian and Turkish
  borders experience cold winters with occasionally heavy snows that
  melt in early spring, sometimes causing extensive flooding in
  central and southern Iraq

Ireland
  temperate maritime; modified by North Atlantic Current; mild
  winters, cool summers; consistently humid; overcast about half the
  time

Isle of Man
  temperate; cool summers and mild winters; overcast about
  one-third of the time

Israel
  temperate; hot and dry in southern and eastern desert areas

Italy
  predominantly Mediterranean; Alpine in far north; hot, dry in
  south

Jamaica
  tropical; hot, humid; temperate interior

Jan Mayen
  arctic maritime with frequent storms and persistent fog

Japan
  varies from tropical in south to cool temperate in north

Jersey
  temperate; mild winters and cool summers

Jordan
  mostly arid desert; rainy season in west (November to April)

Kazakhstan
  continental, cold winters and hot summers, arid and
  semiarid

Kenya
  varies from tropical along coast to arid in interior

Kiribati
  tropical; marine, hot and humid, moderated by trade winds

Korea, North
  temperate with rainfall concentrated in summer

Korea, South
  temperate, with rainfall heavier in summer than winter

Kosovo
  influenced by continental air masses resulting in relatively
  cold winters with heavy snowfall and hot, dry summers and autumns;
  Mediterranean and alpine influences create regional variation;
  maximum rainfall between October and December

Kuwait
  dry desert; intensely hot summers; short, cool winters

Kyrgyzstan
  dry continental to polar in high Tien Shan; subtropical
  in southwest (Fergana Valley); temperate in northern foothill zone

Laos
  tropical monsoon; rainy season (May to November); dry season
  (December to April)

Latvia
  maritime; wet, moderate winters

Lebanon
  Mediterranean; mild to cool, wet winters with hot, dry
  summers; Lebanon mountains experience heavy winter snows

Lesotho
  temperate; cool to cold, dry winters; hot, wet summers

Liberia
  tropical; hot, humid; dry winters with hot days and cool to
  cold nights; wet, cloudy summers with frequent heavy showers

Libya
  Mediterranean along coast; dry, extreme desert interior

Liechtenstein
  continental; cold, cloudy winters with frequent snow
  or rain; cool to moderately warm, cloudy, humid summers

Lithuania
  transitional, between maritime and continental; wet,
  moderate winters and summers

Luxembourg
  modified continental with mild winters, cool summers

Macau
  subtropical; marine with cool winters, warm summers

Macedonia
  warm, dry summers and autumns; relatively cold winters
  with heavy snowfall

Madagascar
  tropical along coast, temperate inland, arid in south

Malawi
  sub-tropical; rainy season (November to May); dry season (May
  to November)

Malaysia
  tropical; annual southwest (April to October) and northeast
  (October to February) monsoons

Maldives
  tropical; hot, humid; dry, northeast monsoon (November to
  March); rainy, southwest monsoon (June to August)

Mali
  subtropical to arid; hot and dry (February to June); rainy,
  humid, and mild (June to November); cool and dry (November to
  February)

Malta
  Mediterranean; mild, rainy winters; hot, dry summers

Marshall Islands
  tropical; hot and humid; wet season May to
  November; islands border typhoon belt

Mauritania
  desert; constantly hot, dry, dusty

Mauritius
  tropical, modified by southeast trade winds; warm, dry
  winter (May to November); hot, wet, humid summer (November to May)

Mayotte
  tropical; marine; hot, humid, rainy season during
  northeastern monsoon (November to May); dry season is cooler (May to
  November)

Mexico
  varies from tropical to desert

Micronesia, Federated States of
  tropical; heavy year-round rainfall,
  especially in the eastern islands; located on southern edge of the
  typhoon belt with occasionally severe damage

Moldova
  moderate winters, warm summers

Monaco
  Mediterranean with mild, wet winters and hot, dry summers

Mongolia
  desert; continental (large daily and seasonal temperature
  ranges)

Montenegro
  Mediterranean climate, hot dry summers and autumns and
  relatively cold winters with heavy snowfalls inland

Montserrat
  tropical; little daily or seasonal temperature variation

Morocco
  Mediterranean, becoming more extreme in the interior

Mozambique
  tropical to subtropical

Namibia
  desert; hot, dry; rainfall sparse and erratic

Nauru
  tropical with a monsoonal pattern; rainy season (November to
  February)

Navassa Island
  marine, tropical

Nepal
  varies from cool summers and severe winters in north to
  subtropical summers and mild winters in south

Netherlands
  temperate; marine; cool summers and mild winters

Netherlands Antilles
  tropical; ameliorated by northeast trade winds

New Caledonia
  tropical; modified by southeast trade winds; hot, humid

New Zealand
  temperate with sharp regional contrasts

Nicaragua
  tropical in lowlands, cooler in highlands

Niger
  desert; mostly hot, dry, dusty; tropical in extreme south

Nigeria
  varies; equatorial in south, tropical in center, arid in
  north

Niue
  tropical; modified by southeast trade winds

Norfolk Island
  subtropical; mild, little seasonal temperature
  variation

Northern Mariana Islands
  tropical marine; moderated by northeast
  trade winds, little seasonal temperature variation; dry season
  December to June, rainy season July to October

Norway
  temperate along coast, modified by North Atlantic Current;
  colder interior with increased precipitation and colder summers;
  rainy year-round on west coast

Oman
  dry desert; hot, humid along coast; hot, dry interior; strong
  southwest summer monsoon (May to September) in far south

Pacific Ocean
  planetary air pressure systems and resultant wind
  patterns exhibit remarkable uniformity in the south and east; trade
  winds and westerly winds are well-developed patterns, modified by
  seasonal fluctuations; tropical cyclones (hurricanes) may form south
  of Mexico from June to October and affect Mexico and Central
  America; continental influences cause climatic uniformity to be much
  less pronounced in the eastern and western regions at the same
  latitude in the North Pacific Ocean; the western Pacific is
  monsoonal - a rainy season occurs during the summer months, when
  moisture-laden winds blow from the ocean over the land, and a dry
  season during the winter months, when dry winds blow from the Asian
  landmass back to the ocean; tropical cyclones (typhoons) may strike
  southeast and east Asia from May to December

Pakistan
  mostly hot, dry desert; temperate in northwest; arctic in
  north

Palau
  tropical; hot and humid; wet season May to November

Panama
  tropical maritime; hot, humid, cloudy; prolonged rainy season
  (May to January), short dry season (January to May)

Papua New Guinea
  tropical; northwest monsoon (December to March),
  southeast monsoon (May to October); slight seasonal temperature
  variation

Paracel Islands
  tropical

Paraguay
  subtropical to temperate; substantial rainfall in the
  eastern portions, becoming semiarid in the far west

Peru
  varies from tropical in east to dry desert in west; temperate
  to frigid in Andes

Philippines
  tropical marine; northeast monsoon (November to April);
  southwest monsoon (May to October)

Pitcairn Islands
  tropical; hot and humid; modified by southeast
  trade winds; rainy season (November to March)

Poland
  temperate with cold, cloudy, moderately severe winters with
  frequent precipitation; mild summers with frequent showers and
  thundershowers

Portugal
  maritime temperate; cool and rainy in north, warmer and
  drier in south

Puerto Rico
  tropical marine, mild; little seasonal temperature
  variation

Qatar
  arid; mild, pleasant winters; very hot, humid summers

Romania
  temperate; cold, cloudy winters with frequent snow and fog;
  sunny summers with frequent showers and thunderstorms

Russia
  ranges from steppes in the south through humid continental in
  much of European Russia; subarctic in Siberia to tundra climate in
  the polar north; winters vary from cool along Black Sea coast to
  frigid in Siberia; summers vary from warm in the steppes to cool
  along Arctic coast

Rwanda
  temperate; two rainy seasons (February to April, November to
  January); mild in mountains with frost and snow possible

Saint Barthelemy
  tropical, with practically no variation in
  temperature; has two seasons (dry and humid)

Saint Helena
  Saint Helena: tropical marine; mild, tempered by trade
  winds
  Ascension Island: tropical marine; mild, semi-arid
  Tristan da Cunha: temperate marine; mild, tempered by trade winds
  (tends to be cooler than Saint Helena)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  tropical, tempered by constant sea breezes;
  little seasonal temperature variation; rainy season (May to November)

Saint Lucia
  tropical, moderated by northeast trade winds; dry season
  January to April, rainy season May to August

Saint Martin
  temperature averages 80-85 degrees all year long; low
  humidity, gentle trade winds, brief, intense rain showers;
  July-Novemeber is the hurricane season

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  cold and wet, with much mist and fog;
  spring and autumn are windy

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  tropical; little seasonal
  temperature variation; rainy season (May to November)

Samoa
  tropical; rainy season (November to April), dry season (May to
  October)

San Marino
  Mediterranean; mild to cool winters; warm, sunny summers

Sao Tome and Principe
  tropical; hot, humid; one rainy season
  (October to May)

Saudi Arabia
  harsh, dry desert with great temperature extremes

Senegal
  tropical; hot, humid; rainy season (May to November) has
  strong southeast winds; dry season (December to April) dominated by
  hot, dry, harmattan wind

Serbia
  in the north, continental climate (cold winters and hot,
  humid summers with well distributed rainfall); in other parts,
  continental and Mediterranean climate (relatively cold winters with
  heavy snowfall and hot, dry summers and autumns)

Seychelles
  tropical marine; humid; cooler season during southeast
  monsoon (late May to September); warmer season during northwest
  monsoon (March to May)

Sierra Leone
  tropical; hot, humid; summer rainy season (May to
  December); winter dry season (December to April)

Singapore
  tropical; hot, humid, rainy; two distinct monsoon seasons
  - Northeastern monsoon (December to March) and Southwestern monsoon
  (June to September); inter-monsoon - frequent afternoon and early
  evening thunderstorms

Slovakia
  temperate; cool summers; cold, cloudy, humid winters

Slovenia
  Mediterranean climate on the coast, continental climate
  with mild to hot summers and cold winters in the plateaus and
  valleys to the east

Solomon Islands
  tropical monsoon; few extremes of temperature and
  weather

Somalia
  principally desert; northeast monsoon (December to
  February), moderate temperatures in north and hot in south;
  southwest monsoon (May to October), torrid in the north and hot in
  the south, irregular rainfall, hot and humid periods (tangambili)
  between monsoons

South Africa
  mostly semiarid; subtropical along east coast; sunny
  days, cool nights

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  variable, with mostly
  westerly winds throughout the year interspersed with periods of
  calm; nearly all precipitation falls as snow

Southern Ocean
  sea temperatures vary from about 10 degrees Celsius
  to -2 degrees Celsius; cyclonic storms travel eastward around the
  continent and frequently are intense because of the temperature
  contrast between ice and open ocean; the ocean area from about
  latitude 40 south to the Antarctic Circle has the strongest average
  winds found anywhere on Earth; in winter the ocean freezes outward
  to 65 degrees south latitude in the Pacific sector and 55 degrees
  south latitude in the Atlantic sector, lowering surface temperatures
  well below 0 degrees Celsius; at some coastal points intense
  persistent drainage winds from the interior keep the shoreline
  ice-free throughout the winter

Spain
  temperate; clear, hot summers in interior, more moderate and
  cloudy along coast; cloudy, cold winters in interior, partly cloudy
  and cool along coast

Spratly Islands
  tropical

Sri Lanka
  tropical monsoon; northeast monsoon (December to March);
  southwest monsoon (June to October)

Sudan
  tropical in south; arid desert in north; rainy season varies
  by region (April to November)

Suriname
  tropical; moderated by trade winds

Svalbard
  arctic, tempered by warm North Atlantic Current; cool
  summers, cold winters; North Atlantic Current flows along west and
  north coasts of Spitsbergen, keeping water open and navigable most
  of the year

Swaziland
  varies from tropical to near temperate

Sweden
  temperate in south with cold, cloudy winters and cool, partly
  cloudy summers; subarctic in north

Switzerland
  temperate, but varies with altitude; cold, cloudy,
  rainy/snowy winters; cool to warm, cloudy, humid summers with
  occasional showers

Syria
  mostly desert; hot, dry, sunny summers (June to August) and
  mild, rainy winters (December to February) along coast; cold weather
  with snow or sleet periodically in Damascus

Taiwan
  tropical; marine; rainy season during southwest monsoon (June
  to August); cloudiness is persistent and extensive all year

Tajikistan
  midlatitude continental, hot summers, mild winters;
  semiarid to polar in Pamir Mountains

Tanzania
  varies from tropical along coast to temperate in highlands

Thailand
  tropical; rainy, warm, cloudy southwest monsoon (mid-May to
  September); dry, cool northeast monsoon (November to mid-March);
  southern isthmus always hot and humid

Timor-Leste
  tropical; hot, humid; distinct rainy and dry seasons

Togo
  tropical; hot, humid in south; semiarid in north

Tokelau
  tropical; moderated by trade winds (April to November)

Tonga
  tropical; modified by trade winds; warm season (December to
  May), cool season (May to December)

Trinidad and Tobago
  tropical; rainy season (June to December)

Tunisia
  temperate in north with mild, rainy winters and hot, dry
  summers; desert in south

Turkey
  temperate; hot, dry summers with mild, wet winters; harsher
  in interior

Turkmenistan
  subtropical desert

Turks and Caicos Islands
  tropical; marine; moderated by trade winds;
  sunny and relatively dry

Tuvalu
  tropical; moderated by easterly trade winds (March to
  November); westerly gales and heavy rain (November to March)

Uganda
  tropical; generally rainy with two dry seasons (December to
  February, June to August); semiarid in northeast

Ukraine
  temperate continental; Mediterranean only on the southern
  Crimean coast; precipitation disproportionately distributed, highest
  in west and north, lesser in east and southeast; winters vary from
  cool along the Black Sea to cold farther inland; summers are warm
  across the greater part of the country, hot in the south

United Arab Emirates
  desert; cooler in eastern mountains

United Kingdom
  temperate; moderated by prevailing southwest winds
  over the North Atlantic Current; more than one-half of the days are
  overcast

United States
  mostly temperate, but tropical in Hawaii and Florida,
  arctic in Alaska, semiarid in the great plains west of the
  Mississippi River, and arid in the Great Basin of the southwest; low
  winter temperatures in the northwest are ameliorated occasionally in
  January and February by warm chinook winds from the eastern slopes
  of the Rocky Mountains

United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
  Baker, Howland, and
  Jarvis Islands: equatorial; scant rainfall, constant wind, burning
  sun
  Johnston Atoll and Kingman Reef: tropical, but generally dry;
  consistent northeast trade winds with little seasonal temperature
  variation
  Midway Islands: subtropical with cool, moist winters (December to
  February) and warm, dry summers (May to October); moderated by
  prevailing easterly winds; most of the 1,067 mm (42 in) of annual
  rainfall occurs during the winter
  Palmyra Atoll: equatorial, hot; located within the low pressure area
  of the Intertropical Convergence Zone (ITCZ) where the northeast and
  southeast trade winds meet, it is extremely wet with between
  4,000-5,000 mm (160-200 in) of rainfall each year

Uruguay
  warm temperate; freezing temperatures almost unknown

Uzbekistan
  mostly midlatitude desert, long, hot summers, mild
  winters; semiarid grassland in east

Vanuatu
  tropical; moderated by southeast trade winds from May to
  October; moderate rainfall from November to April; may be affected
  by cyclones from December to April

Venezuela
  tropical; hot, humid; more moderate in highlands

Vietnam
  tropical in south; monsoonal in north with hot, rainy season
  (May to September) and warm, dry season (October to March)

Virgin Islands
  subtropical, tempered by easterly trade winds,
  relatively low humidity, little seasonal temperature variation;
  rainy season September to November

Wake Island
  tropical

Wallis and Futuna
  tropical; hot, rainy season (November to April);
  cool, dry season (May to October); rains 2,500-3,000 mm per year
  (80% humidity); average temperature 26.6 degrees C

West Bank
  temperate; temperature and precipitation vary with
  altitude, warm to hot summers, cool to mild winters

Western Sahara
  hot, dry desert; rain is rare; cold offshore air
  currents produce fog and heavy dew

World
  a wide equatorial band of hot and humid tropical climates -
  bordered north and south by subtropical temperate zones - that
  separate two large areas of cold and dry polar climates

Yemen
  mostly desert; hot and humid along west coast; temperate in
  western mountains affected by seasonal monsoon; extraordinarily hot,
  dry, harsh desert in east

Zambia
  tropical; modified by altitude; rainy season (October to
  April)

Zimbabwe
  tropical; moderated by altitude; rainy season (November to
  March)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2060  Coastline (km)


Afghanistan
  0 km (landlocked)

Akrotiri
  56.3 km

Albania
  362 km

Algeria
  998 km

American Samoa
  116 km

Andorra
  0 km (landlocked)

Angola
  1,600 km

Anguilla
  61 km

Antarctica
  17,968 km

Antigua and Barbuda
  153 km

Arctic Ocean
  45,389 km

Argentina
  4,989 km

Armenia
  0 km (landlocked)

Aruba
  68.5 km

Ashmore and Cartier Islands
  74.1 km

Atlantic Ocean
  111,866 km

Australia
  25,760 km

Austria
  0 km (landlocked)

Azerbaijan
  0 km (landlocked); note - Azerbaijan borders the Caspian
  Sea (713 km)

Bahamas, The
  3,542 km

Bahrain
  161 km

Bangladesh
  580 km

Barbados
  97 km

Belarus
  0 km (landlocked)

Belgium
  66.5 km

Belize
  386 km

Benin
  121 km

Bermuda
  103 km

Bhutan
  0 km (landlocked)

Bolivia
  0 km (landlocked)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  20 km

Botswana
  0 km (landlocked)

Bouvet Island
  29.6 km

Brazil
  7,491 km

British Indian Ocean Territory
  698 km

British Virgin Islands
  80 km

Brunei
  161 km

Bulgaria
  354 km

Burkina Faso
  0 km (landlocked)

Burma
  1,930 km

Burundi
  0 km (landlocked)

Cambodia
  443 km

Cameroon
  402 km

Canada
  202,080 km

Cape Verde
  965 km

Cayman Islands
  160 km

Central African Republic
  0 km (landlocked)

Chad
  0 km (landlocked)

Chile
  6,435 km

China
  14,500 km

Christmas Island
  138.9 km

Clipperton Island
  11.1 km

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  26 km

Colombia
  3,208 km (Caribbean Sea 1,760 km, North Pacific Ocean 1,448
  km)

Comoros
  340 km

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  37 km

Congo, Republic of the
  169 km

Cook Islands
  120 km

Coral Sea Islands
  3,095 km

Costa Rica
  1,290 km

Cote d'Ivoire
  515 km

Croatia
  5,835 km (mainland 1,777 km, islands 4,058 km)

Cuba
  3,735 km

Cyprus
  648 km

Czech Republic
  0 km (landlocked)

Denmark
  7,314 km

Dhekelia
  27.5 km

Djibouti
  314 km

Dominica
  148 km

Dominican Republic
  1,288 km

Ecuador
  2,237 km

Egypt
  2,450 km

El Salvador
  307 km

Equatorial Guinea
  296 km

Eritrea
  2,234 km (mainland on Red Sea 1,151 km, islands in Red Sea
  1,083 km)

Estonia
  3,794 km

Ethiopia
  0 km (landlocked)

European Union
  65,992.9 km

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  1,288 km

Faroe Islands
  1,117 km

Fiji
  1,129 km

Finland
  1,250 km

France
  total: 4,668 km
  metropolitan France: 3,427 km

French Polynesia
  2,525 km

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  Ile Amsterdam (Ile Amsterdam et
  Ile Saint-Paul): 28 km
  Ile Saint-Paul (Ile Amsterdam et Ile Saint-Paul):
  Iles Kerguelen: 2,800 km
  Bassas da India (Iles Eparses): 35.2 km
  Europa Island (Iles Eparses): 22.2 km
  Glorioso Islands (Iles Eparses): 35.2 km
  Juan de Nova Island (Iles Eparses): 24.1 km
  Tromelin Island (Iles Eparses): 3.7 km

Gabon
  885 km

Gambia, The
  80 km

Gaza Strip
  40 km

Georgia
  310 km

Germany
  2,389 km

Ghana
  539 km

Gibraltar
  12 km

Greece
  13,676 km

Greenland
  44,087 km

Grenada
  121 km

Guam
  125.5 km

Guatemala
  400 km

Guernsey
  50 km

Guinea
  320 km

Guinea-Bissau
  350 km

Guyana
  459 km

Haiti
  1,771 km

Heard Island and McDonald Islands
  101.9 km

Holy See (Vatican City)
  0 km (landlocked)

Honduras
  820 km

Hong Kong
  733 km

Hungary
  0 km (landlocked)

Iceland
  4,970 km

India
  7,000 km

Indian Ocean
  66,526 km

Indonesia
  54,716 km

Iran
  2,440 km; note - Iran also borders the Caspian Sea (740 km)

Iraq
  58 km

Ireland
  1,448 km

Isle of Man
  160 km

Israel
  273 km

Italy
  7,600 km

Jamaica
  1,022 km

Jan Mayen
  124.1 km

Japan
  29,751 km

Jersey
  70 km

Jordan
  26 km

Kazakhstan
  0 km (landlocked); note - Kazakhstan borders the Aral
  Sea, now split into two bodies of water (1,070 km), and the Caspian
  Sea (1,894 km)

Kenya
  536 km

Kiribati
  1,143 km

Korea, North
  2,495 km

Korea, South
  2,413 km

Kosovo
  0 km (landlocked)

Kuwait
  499 km

Kyrgyzstan
  0 km (landlocked)

Laos
  0 km (landlocked)

Latvia
  498 km

Lebanon
  225 km

Lesotho
  0 km (landlocked)

Liberia
  579 km

Libya
  1,770 km

Liechtenstein
  0 km (doubly landlocked)

Lithuania
  90 km

Luxembourg
  0 km (landlocked)

Macau
  41 km

Macedonia
  0 km (landlocked)

Madagascar
  4,828 km

Malawi
  0 km (landlocked)

Malaysia
  4,675 km (Peninsular Malaysia 2,068 km, East Malaysia 2,607
  km)

Maldives
  644 km

Mali
  0 km (landlocked)

Malta
  196.8 km (does not include 56.01 km for the island of Gozo)

Marshall Islands
  370.4 km

Mauritania
  754 km

Mauritius
  177 km

Mayotte
  185.2 km

Mexico
  9,330 km

Micronesia, Federated States of
  6,112 km

Moldova
  0 km (landlocked)

Monaco
  4.1 km

Mongolia
  0 km (landlocked)

Montenegro
  293.5 km

Montserrat
  40 km

Morocco
  1,835 km

Mozambique
  2,470 km

Namibia
  1,572 km

Nauru
  30 km

Navassa Island
  8 km

Nepal
  0 km (landlocked)

Netherlands
  451 km

Netherlands Antilles
  364 km

New Caledonia
  2,254 km

New Zealand
  15,134 km

Nicaragua
  910 km

Niger
  0 km (landlocked)

Nigeria
  853 km

Niue
  64 km

Norfolk Island
  32 km

Northern Mariana Islands
  1,482 km

Norway
  25,148 km (includes mainland 2,650 km, as well as long
  fjords, numerous small islands, and minor indentations 22,498 km;
  length of island coastlines 58,133 km)

Oman
  2,092 km

Pacific Ocean
  135,663 km

Pakistan
  1,046 km

Palau
  1,519 km

Panama
  2,490 km

Papua New Guinea
  5,152 km

Paracel Islands
  518 km

Paraguay
  0 km (landlocked)

Peru
  2,414 km

Philippines
  36,289 km

Pitcairn Islands
  51 km

Poland
  440 km

Portugal
  1,793 km

Puerto Rico
  501 km

Qatar
  563 km

Romania
  225 km

Russia
  37,653 km

Rwanda
  0 km (landlocked)

Saint Helena
  Saint Helena: 60 km
  Ascension Island: NA
  Tristan da Cunha: 40 km

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  135 km

Saint Lucia
  158 km

Saint Martin
  58.9 km (for entire island)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  120 km

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  84 km

Samoa
  403 km

San Marino
  0 km (landlocked)

Sao Tome and Principe
  209 km

Saudi Arabia
  2,640 km

Senegal
  531 km

Serbia
  0 km (landlocked)

Seychelles
  491 km

Sierra Leone
  402 km

Singapore
  193 km

Slovakia
  0 km (landlocked)

Slovenia
  46.6 km

Solomon Islands
  5,313 km

Somalia
  3,025 km

South Africa
  2,798 km

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  NA km

Southern Ocean
  17,968 km

Spain
  4,964 km

Spratly Islands
  926 km

Sri Lanka
  1,340 km

Sudan
  853 km

Suriname
  386 km

Svalbard
  3,587 km

Swaziland
  0 km (landlocked)

Sweden
  3,218 km

Switzerland
  0 km (landlocked)

Syria
  193 km

Taiwan
  1,566.3 km

Tajikistan
  0 km (landlocked)

Tanzania
  1,424 km

Thailand
  3,219 km

Timor-Leste
  706 km

Togo
  56 km

Tokelau
  101 km

Tonga
  419 km

Trinidad and Tobago
  362 km

Tunisia
  1,148 km

Turkey
  7,200 km

Turkmenistan
  0 km; note - Turkmenistan borders the Caspian Sea
  (1,768 km)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  389 km

Tuvalu
  24 km

Uganda
  0 km (landlocked)

Ukraine
  2,782 km

United Arab Emirates
  1,318 km

United Kingdom
  12,429 km

United States
  19,924 km

United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
  Baker Island: 4.8 km
  Howland Island: 6.4 km
  Jarvis Island: 8 km
  Johnston Atoll: 34 km
  Kingman Reef: 3 km
  Midway Islands: 15 km
  Palmyra Atoll: 14.5 km

Uruguay
  660 km

Uzbekistan
  0 km (doubly landlocked); note - Uzbekistan includes the
  southern portion of the Aral Sea with a 420 km shoreline

Vanuatu
  2,528 km

Venezuela
  2,800 km

Vietnam
  3,444 km (excludes islands)

Virgin Islands
  188 km

Wake Island
  19.3 km

Wallis and Futuna
  129 km

West Bank
  0 km (landlocked)

Western Sahara
  1,110 km

World
  356,000 km
  note: 94 nations and other entities are islands that border no other
  countries, they include: American Samoa, Anguilla, Antigua and
  Barbuda, Aruba, Ashmore and Cartier Islands, The Bahamas, Bahrain,
  Baker Island, Barbados, Bermuda, Bouvet Island, British Indian Ocean
  Territory, British Virgin Islands, Cape Verde, Cayman Islands,
  Christmas Island, Clipperton Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands,
  Comoros, Cook Islands, Coral Sea Islands, Cuba, Cyprus, Dominica,
  Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas), Faroe Islands, Fiji, French
  Polynesia, French Southern and Antarctic Lands, Greenland, Grenada,
  Guam, Guernsey, Heard Island and McDonald Islands, Howland Island,
  Iceland, Isle of Man, Jamaica, Jan Mayen, Japan, Jarvis Island,
  Jersey, Johnston Atoll, Kingman Reef, Kiribati, Madagascar,
  Maldives, Malta, Marshall Islands, Martinique, Mauritius, Mayotte,
  Federated States of Micronesia, Midway Islands, Montserrat, Nauru,
  Navassa Island, New Caledonia, New Zealand, Niue, Norfolk Island,
  Northern Mariana Islands, Palau, Palmyra Atoll, Paracel Islands,
  Philippines, Pitcairn Islands, Puerto Rico, Reunion, Saint
  Barthelemy, Saint Helena, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint
  Pierre and Miquelon, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Sao
  Tome and Principe, Seychelles, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South
  Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, Spratly Islands, Sri Lanka,
  Svalbard, Tokelau, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Turks and Caicos
  Islands, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, Virgin Islands, Wake Island, Wallis and
  Futuna, Taiwan

Yemen
  1,906 km

Zambia
  0 km (landlocked)

Zimbabwe
  0 km (landlocked)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2061  Imports - partners (%)


Afghanistan
  Pakistan 36.8%, US 11%, India 5%, Germany 4.2% (2007)

Albania
  Italy 27.6%, Greece 14.8%, Turkey 7.4%, China 6.8%, Germany
  5.6%, Switzerland 5%, Russia 4.2% (2007)

Algeria
  France 18.7%, China 9%, Italy 8.5%, Spain 6%, US 5.5%,
  Germany 5.3%, Russia 4.6%, Turkey 4.1% (2007)

American Samoa
  Australia 66%, Samoa 13.8%, NZ 10.8% (2006)

Angola
  Portugal 19.7%, US 10.9%, China 10.5%, Brazil 10.3%, South
  Africa 6.6%, France 6.3%, UK 4.6%, Germany 4.3% (2007)

Anguilla
  US, Puerto Rico, UK (2006)

Antigua and Barbuda
  US 21.1%, China 16.4%, Germany 13.3%, Singapore
  12.7%, Spain 6.5% (2006)

Argentina
  Brazil 34.6%, US 12.6%, China 12%, Germany 5% (2007)

Armenia
  Russia 15.1%, Ukraine 7.7%, Kazakhstan 7.4%, Germany 6.8%,
  China 6%, France 4.6%, US 4.5%, Iraq 4.3% (2007)

Aruba
  US 54.6%, Netherlands 12%, UK 4.7% (2007)

Australia
  China 15.5%, US 12.8%, Japan 9.6%, Singapore 5.6%, Germany
  5.2%, UK 4.3%, Thailand 4.2% (2007)

Austria
  Germany 45.5%, Italy 7.1%, Switzerland 5%, Netherlands 4.3%
  (2007)

Azerbaijan
  Russia 17.6%, Turkey 10.9%, Germany 8.2%, Ukraine 8.2%,
  UK 7.2%, Japan 5.2%, China 4.9%, US 4.7% (2007)

Bahamas, The
  US 26.7%, South Korea 14.1%, Japan 13.5%, Italy 7.5%,
  Singapore 5.2%, Venezuela 4.5%, Spain 4.3% (2007)

Bahrain
  Saudi Arabia 37.7%, Japan 7.2%, US 6.2%, Germany 4.7%, UK
  4.5%, UAE 4.2%, China 4.1% (2007)

Bangladesh
  China 15%, India 14.3%, Kuwait 8.3%, Singapore 6.2%, Hong
  Kong 4.2% (2007)

Barbados
  US 30.5%, Trinidad and Tobago 27.6%, UK 6.5% (2007)

Belarus
  Russia 59.9%, Germany 7.6%, Ukraine 5.4% (2007)

Belgium
  Germany 17.7%, Netherlands 17.6%, France 11.2%, UK 6.2%, US
  5.4%, Ireland 4.9%, China 4.1% (2007)

Belize
  US 31.2%, Mexico 13.6%, Cuba 8.5%, Guatemala 8%, Russia 4.6%
  (2007)

Benin
  China 44.5%, France 8.2%, US 6.5%, Thailand 6.3%, Malaysia
  4.8% (2007)

Bermuda
  South Korea 36.4%, US 15.7%, Germany 13.2%, Italy 11.8%
  (2007)

Bhutan
  India 74.5%, Japan 7.4%, Sweden 3.2% (2007)

Bolivia
  Brazil 29.9%, Argentina 16.2%, Chile 10.5%, US 9.8%, Peru
  8.1% (2007)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  Croatia 24.7%, Slovenia 13.3%, Germany 13.1%,
  Italy 10.4%, Austria 7%, Turkey 6.5%, Hungary 5.4% (2007)

Botswana
  Southern African Customs Union (SACU) 74%, EFTA 17%,
  Zimbabwe 4% (2006)

Brazil
  US 15.7%, China 10.5%, Argentina 8.6%, Germany 7.2%, Nigeria
  4.4% (2007)

British Virgin Islands
  Virgin Islands (US), Puerto Rico, US (2006)

Brunei
  UK 46.4%, Singapore 19.5%, Malaysia 11.3% (2007)

Bulgaria
  Russia 12.3%, Germany 12.3%, Italy 8.7%, Ukraine 7.2%,
  Turkey 6.9%, Greece 6.2%, Romania 4.5%, Austria 4.3% (2007)

Burkina Faso
  Cote d'Ivoire 25.8%, France 20.6%, Togo 7.1% (2007)

Burma
  China 33.7%, Thailand 19.1%, Singapore 15.5%, South Korea
  5.8%, Indonesia 5.2%, Malaysia 4.2% (2007)

Burundi
  Saudi Arabia 17%, Kenya 11.4%, Belgium 8.7%, France 6.1%,
  Uganda 5.4%, Germany 5.4%, India 4.8%, Pakistan 4.2% (2007)

Cambodia
  Thailand 23.1%, Vietnam 16.9%, China 15%, Hong Kong 10.4%,
  Singapore 7.5%, Taiwan 7.2%, South Korea 4.8% (2007)

Cameroon
  France 23.4%, Nigeria 12.8%, China 9%, Belgium 5.8%, US 4%
  (2007)

Canada
  US 54.1%, China 9.4%, Mexico 4.2% (2007)

Cape Verde
  Portugal 40.7%, Netherlands 10.9%, France 6.5%, Spain
  5.6%, Cote d'Ivoire 4.9%, Brazil 4.7%, Italy 4.7% (2007)

Cayman Islands
  US, Netherlands Antilles, Japan (2006)

Central African Republic
  France 16.6%, Netherlands 13%, Cameroon
  9.7%, US 6.3% (2007)

Chad
  France 20.4%, Cameroon 16.1%, US 10.9%, China 10%, Germany
  7.5%, Saudi Arabia 4.4% (2007)

Chile
  US 16.7%, China 11.2%, Brazil 10.3%, Argentina 9.9% (2007)

China
  Japan 14%, South Korea 10.9%, Taiwan 10.5%, US 7.3%, Germany
  4.7% (2007)

Christmas Island
  principally Australia (2006)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  Australia (2006)

Colombia
  US 26.2%, China 10.1%, Mexico 9.3%, Brazil 7.3%, Venezuela
  4.2% (2007)

Comoros
  France 18.2%, UAE 10.8%, South Africa 8.5%, Pakistan 7.2%,
  Kenya 5.7%, China 5.4%, India 5% (2007)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  South Africa 22.5%, Belgium 10.3%,
  Zambia 8.9%, Zimbabwe 7.5%, France 6.8%, Kenya 6.3%, US 4.1%, Cote
  d'Ivoire 4.1% (2007)

Congo, Republic of the
  France 18.1%, South Korea 14.7%, China 12.6%,
  Italy 10.3%, India 4.7%, US 4.2% (2007)

Cook Islands
  NZ 61%, Fiji 19%, US 9%, Australia 6% (2006)

Costa Rica
  US 41%, Mexico 6.1%, Venezuela 5.7%, Japan 5.4%, China
  5.1%, Brazil 4.3% (2007)

Cote d'Ivoire
  Nigeria 31.1%, France 16.7%, China 7.3% (2007)

Croatia
  Italy 16.1%, Germany 14.4%, Russia 10.1%, China 6.2%,
  Slovenia 6%, Austria 5.3% (2007)

Cuba
  Venezuela 29.6%, China 13.4%, Spain 10.4%, Canada 6%, US 5.1%
  (2007)

Cyprus
  Greece 17.7%, Italy 10.2%, UK 9.6%, Germany 9.4%, Israel
  6.5%, France 5.4%, China 5.3%, Netherlands 4.1% (2007)

Czech Republic
  Germany 31.8%, Netherlands 6.7%, Slovakia 6.4%,
  Poland 6.3%, Austria 5.1%, China 5.1%, Russia 4.5%, Italy 4.4%,
  France 4.1% (2007)

Denmark
  Germany 21.6%, Sweden 14.4%, Netherlands 7.1%, Norway 6%,
  China 5.4%, UK 5.3%, Italy 4.1%, France 4% (2007)

Djibouti
  Saudi Arabia 21%, India 18.1%, China 9.4%, Ethiopia 4.7%,
  Malaysia 4.6%, Japan 4.2% (2007)

Dominica
  US 24.1%, China 21.2%, Trinidad and Tobago 13.2%, Japan
  11.1% (2007)

Dominican Republic
  US 46%, Venezuela 8.1%, Mexico 5.9%, Colombia
  4.7% (2007)

Ecuador
  US 23.7%, Colombia 10.3%, China 7.6%, Brazil 5.3%, Japan
  4.3% (2007)

Egypt
  US 11.7%, China 9.7%, Italy 6.4%, Germany 6.3%, Saudi Arabia
  4.7%, Russia 4.3% (2007)

El Salvador
  US 35.7%, Mexico 9.8%, Guatemala 8.5%, China 4.7% (2007)

Equatorial Guinea
  US 19.6%, Spain 13.7%, Cote d'Ivoire 11.9%, France
  9.6%, China 7.7%, Italy 6.6%, UK 6.4%, Netherlands 4.1% (2007)

Eritrea
  Saudi Arabia 19.1%, Italy 15.1%, China 11.1%, Turkey 8.3%,
  Germany 7.2%, Ukraine 5.1% (2007)

Estonia
  Finland 15.9%, Germany 12.8%, Sweden 10.1%, Russia 10%,
  Latvia 7.6%, Lithuania 6.9%, Poland 4.5% (2007)

Ethiopia
  Saudi Arabia 17%, China 15.9%, India 7.8%, Italy 5.1% (2007)

European Union
  US 13.8%, China 13.4%, Russia 8.2%, Japan 6.2% (2006)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  UK 72.5%, US 15.1%, Netherlands
  8.5% (2006)

Faroe Islands
  Denmark 51.9%, Norway 21.6%, Sweden 5%, UK 4.6% (2007)

Fiji
  Singapore 30.4%, Australia 21.6%, NZ 17.7%, China 4.5% (2007)

Finland
  Germany 15.8%, Russia 14%, Sweden 13.7%, Netherlands 6.8%,
  China 5.5%, UK 4.9% (2007)

France
  Germany 18.9%, Belgium 11.4%, Italy 8.4%, Spain 7.1%,
  Netherlands 7%, UK 5.6%, US 4.4%, China 4% (2007)

French Polynesia
  France 52.7%, Singapore 14.9%, NZ 6.8%, US 6.6%
  (2006)

Gabon
  France 27.7%, US 19.1%, Belgium 5.4%, Netherlands 4.7%, China
  4.1% (2007)

Gambia, The
  China 23.7%, Senegal 11.5%, Cote d'Ivoire 8.3%, Brazil
  8%, Netherlands 5.2% (2007)

Gaza Strip
  Israel, Egypt, West Bank (2006)

Georgia
  Turkey 14%, Russia 12.3%, Ukraine 8.5%, Azerbaijan 7.3%,
  Germany 6.8%, US 5%, Bulgaria 4.6% (2007)

Germany
  Netherlands 12%, France 8.6%, Belgium 7.8%, China 6.2%,
  Italy 5.8%, UK 5.6%, US 4.5%, Austria 4.4% (2007)

Ghana
  Nigeria 15.1%, China 14.9%, UK 5.2%, US 5.1% (2007)

Gibraltar
  Spain 23.4%, Russia 12.3%, Italy 12%, UK 9%, France 8.9%,
  Netherlands 6.8%, US 4.7% (2006)

Greece
  Germany 12.9%, Italy 11.7%, Russia 5.6%, France 5.6%, China
  5%, Netherlands 5% (2007)

Greenland
  Denmark 68.1%, Sweden 19.3%, Canada 2.5% (2007)

Grenada
  Trinidad and Tobago 36.5%, US 23.3%, Italy 4.1% (2007)

Guam
  Singapore 50%, South Korea 21.4%, Japan 14%, Hong Kong 4.6%
  (2006)

Guatemala
  US 34.9%, Mexico 9.9%, China 6.8%, El Salvador 4.6%, Costa
  Rica 4.1% (2007)

Guernsey
  UK; note - regarded as internal trade (2006)

Guinea
  China 10%, France 7%, Netherlands 6.3% (2007)

Guinea-Bissau
  Portugal 21.7%, Senegal 16.8%, France 6%, Pakistan
  4.7% (2007)

Guyana
  Trinidad and Tobago 26.2%, US 20.5%, Cuba 7.2%, China 7.1%,
  UK 5.4% (2007)

Haiti
  US 41.2%, Netherlands Antilles 14.9%, China 4.7%, Brazil 4.4%
  (2007)

Honduras
  US 52.4%, Guatemala 7.1%, El Salvador 5.2%, Mexico 4.5%,
  Costa Rica 4.2% (2007)

Hong Kong
  China 46.3%, Japan 10%, Taiwan 7.1%, Singapore 6.8%, US
  4.9%, South Korea 4.2% (2007)

Hungary
  Germany 26.6%, China 7.8%, Russia 6.9%, Austria 6.1%, Italy
  4.5%, France 4.3%, Netherlands 4.3% (2007)

Iceland
  US 13.7%, Germany 12.2%, Sweden 10.2%, Denmark 7.5%,
  Netherlands 5.7%, UK 5.4%, China 5.1%, Norway 4.6% (2007)

India
  China 10.6%, US 7.8%, Germany 4.4%, Singapore 4.4% (2007)

Indonesia
  Singapore 13.2%, China 11.5%, Japan 8.8%, Malaysia 8.6%,
  US 6.4%, Thailand 5.8%, Saudi Arabia 4.5%, South Korea 4.3%,
  Australia 4% (2007)

Iran
  China 14.2%, Germany 9.6%, UAE 9.1%, South Korea 6.3%, Russia
  5.7%, Italy 5% (2007)

Iraq
  Syria 30.5%, Turkey 19.8%, US 11.1%, Jordan 5%, China 4.8%
  (2007)

Ireland
  UK 38.3%, US 11.3%, Germany 9.7%, Netherlands 5%, France
  4.2% (2007)

Isle of Man
  UK (2006)

Israel
  US 13.9%, Belgium 7.9%, Germany 6.2%, China 6.1%, Switzerland
  5.1%, UK 4.7%, Italy 4.1% (2007)

Italy
  Germany 16.9%, France 9%, China 5.9%, Netherlands 5.5%,
  Belgium 4.3%, Spain 4.2% (2007)

Jamaica
  US 37.2%, Trinidad and Tobago 14.5%, Grenada 9.7%, Venezuela
  8.3%, Brazil 4.2% (2007)

Japan
  China 20.5%, US 11.6%, Saudi Arabia 5.7%, UAE 5.2%, Australia
  5%, South Korea 4.4%, Indonesia 4.2% (2007)

Jersey
  UK (2006)

Jordan
  Saudi Arabia 21%, China 9.7%, Germany 7.5%, US 4.7%, Egypt
  4.4% (2007)

Kazakhstan
  Russia 35.4%, China 22.1%, Germany 8% (2007)

Kenya
  UAE 11.4%, China 9.9%, India 8.7%, Saudi Arabia 8%, South
  Africa 6.9%, US 6.2%, Japan 5.9%, UK 4.6% (2007)

Kiribati
  Australia 33%, Fiji 27.1%, Japan 18.1%, NZ 6.9% (2006)

Korea, North
  China 27%, South Korea 16%, Thailand 9%, Russia 7%
  (2006)

Korea, South
  China 17.7%, Japan 15.8%, US 10.5%, Saudi Arabia 5.9%
  (2007)

Kosovo
  EU 35%, Macedonia 15%, Serbia 13%, Turkey 8% (2006)

Kuwait
  US 12.7%, Japan 8.5%, Germany 7.3%, China 6.8%, South Korea
  6.6%, Saudi Arabia 6.2%, Italy 5.8%, UK 4.6% (2007)

Kyrgyzstan
  Russia 40.5%, China 14.7%, Kazakhstan 12.9%, Uzbekistan
  5% (2007)

Laos
  Thailand 68.5%, China 9.3%, Vietnam 5.5% (2007)

Latvia
  Germany 15.1%, Lithuania 13.8%, Russia 8.7%, Estonia 8%,
  Poland 6.9%, Finland 5.1%, Sweden 4.9% (2007)

Lebanon
  Syria 12.1%, Italy 8.5%, France 8.3%, US 7%, China 5.9%,
  Germany 5.3%, Saudi Arabia 4.8% (2007)

Lesotho
  China 30%, Hong Kong 29.6%, India 10%, South Korea 6.6%,
  Germany 6.4%, Pakistan 4.6% (2007)

Liberia
  South Korea 31.4%, Singapore 22.1%, Japan 14.9%, China 10.1%
  (2007)

Libya
  Italy 18.9%, Germany 7.7%, China 7.3%, Tunisia 6.8%, France
  5.7%, Turkey 5.4%, US 4.3% (2007)

Liechtenstein
  EU, Switzerland (2006)

Lithuania
  Russia 18%, Germany 15%, Poland 10.6%, Latvia 5.5%,
  Netherlands 4.3% (2007)

Luxembourg
  Belgium 27.4%, Germany 23.8%, China 17.1%, France 9.2%,
  Netherlands 5% (2007)

Macau
  China 42.6%, Hong Kong 10.1%, Japan 9%, US 5.6%, Germany 4.4%,
  France 4.2% (2007)

Macedonia
  Germany 13.2%, Greece 12.9%, Bulgaria 9.6%, Serbia and
  Montenegro 7.7%, Turkey 6.6%, Italy 6.3%, Slovenia 5% (2007)

Madagascar
  France 13.6%, China 13%, Iran 8.1%, South Africa 6.4%,
  Hong Kong 4.9%, Mauritius 4.8% (2007)

Malawi
  South Africa 36.1%, India 8.5%, Tanzania 6.1%, US 6.1%, China
  4.9% (2007)

Malaysia
  Japan 13%, China 12.9%, Singapore 11.5%, US 10.8%, Taiwan
  5.7%, Thailand 5.3%, South Korea 4.9%, Germany 4.6%, Indonesia 4.2%
  (2007)

Maldives
  Canada 35.2%, Singapore 15%, UAE 10.2%, India 7.4%,
  Malaysia 7.1% (2007)

Mali
  France 12.9%, Senegal 12.7%, Cote d'Ivoire 10.9%, China 4.9%
  (2007)

Malta
  Italy 26%, UK 15%, France 9.5%, Germany 8.8%, Singapore 5.2%
  (2007)

Marshall Islands
  US, Japan, Australia, NZ, Singapore, Fiji, China,
  Philippines (2006)

Mauritania
  France 16.5%, China 8.1%, Spain 6.7%, US 6.1%, Belgium
  5.8%, Brazil 5.7% (2007)

Mauritius
  India 21.2%, China 11.4%, France 10.7%, South Africa 7.4%
  (2007)

Mayotte
  France 49%, Seychelles 8.8%, China 4.1% (2006)

Mexico
  US 49.6%, China 10.5%, Japan 5.8%, South Korea 4.5% (2007)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  US, Japan, Hong Kong (2006)

Moldova
  Russia 20.5%, Ukraine 15.8%, Romania 15%, Germany 8.7%,
  Italy 5.7%, Poland 4.1% (2007)

Mongolia
  China 32%, Russia 29.4%, South Korea 7.9%, Japan 7.2% (2007)

Montenegro
  Greece 10.2%, Italy 10.2%, Germany 9.6%, Bosnia and
  Herzegovina 9.2% (2006)

Montserrat
  US, UK, Trinidad and Tobago, Japan, Canada (2006)

Morocco
  France 16.1%, Spain 13.6%, China 7.3%, Italy 6.7%, Saudi
  Arabia 6.4%, Germany 5.9%, US 4.5%, Netherlands 4.1% (2007)

Mozambique
  South Africa 36.7%, Australia 8.5%, China 4.6% (2007)

Namibia
  South Africa 85.2%, US (2006)

Nauru
  South Korea 43.8%, Australia 36.2%, US 5.9%, Germany 4.3%
  (2006)

Nepal
  India 58.9%, China 13.6%, Japan 1.6% (2007)

Netherlands
  Germany 17.7%, China 10.5%, Belgium 9.3%, US 7.3%, UK
  5.8%, Russia 5.1%, France 4.4% (2007)

Netherlands Antilles
  Venezuela 59.1%, US 17.7%, Brazil 7.1% (2007)

New Caledonia
  France 36.7%, Singapore 14.7%, Australia 12.1%, NZ
  5.2%, Germany 4.6% (2007)

New Zealand
  Australia 20.7%, China 13.4%, US 9.7%, Japan 9.5%,
  Singapore 4.9%, Germany 4.7% (2007)

Nicaragua
  US 22.5%, Mexico 13.5%, Costa Rica 8.4%, Venezuela 6.4%,
  Guatemala 6.2%, El Salvador 4.8% (2007)

Niger
  France 15.9%, French Polynesia 8.8%, Nigeria 8.6%, Belgium
  8.6%, US 6.9%, Cote d'Ivoire 5.6% (2007)

Nigeria
  China 10.6%, Netherlands 7.9%, US 7.8%, South Korea 6.6%, UK
  5.7%, France 4.3%, Brazil 4.2%, Germany 4.1% (2007)

Niue
  New Zealand mainly, Fiji, Japan, Samoa, Australia, US (2006)

Norfolk Island
  Australia, other Pacific island countries, NZ, Asia,
  Europe (2006)

Northern Mariana Islands
  US, Japan (2006)

Norway
  Sweden 14.7%, Germany 13.6%, UK 6.9%, Denmark 6.4%, China
  6.1%, US 4.8%, Canada 4.3% (2007)

Oman
  UAE 19.3%, Japan 17.6%, US 7.4%, Germany 5.2%, India 4.1% (2007)

Pakistan
  China 16.2%, Saudi Arabia 10.9%, UAE 10.1%, US 5.7%, Kuwait
  4.9%, Japan 4.4% (2007)

Palau
  US, Singapore, Japan, South Korea (2006)

Panama
  US 32.8%, Netherlands Antilles 7.6%, China 5.6%, Japan 5.1%,
  Costa Rica 5.1%, South Korea 4.1% (2007)

Papua New Guinea
  Australia 51.3%, Singapore 11.6%, China 7.9%, Japan
  5.7% (2007)

Paraguay
  Brazil 30.4%, US 22.8%, Argentina 14.4%, China 8.6% (2007)

Peru
  US 20.5%, China 10.8%, Brazil 9%, Ecuador 6.1%, Argentina 5.6%,
  Chile 5%, Colombia 4.8% (2007)

Philippines
  US 14.1%, Japan 12.3%, Singapore 11.2%, Taiwan 7.3%,
  China 7.2%, Saudi Arabia 6.4%, South Korea 5.9%, Malaysia 4.1%,
  Thailand 4.1% (2007)

Poland
  Germany 29%, Russia 8.7%, Italy 6.6%, Netherlands 5.7%,
  France 5.1%, China 4.2% (2007)

Portugal
  Spain 29.5%, Germany 12.9%, France 8.4%, Italy 5.2%,
  Netherlands 4.6% (2007)

Puerto Rico
  US 55.0%, Ireland 23.7%, Japan 5.4% (2006)

Qatar
  US 13.3%, Italy 10.8%, Japan 8.9%, France 7.9%, Germany 7.3%,
  UK 5.7%, South Korea 5.6%, UAE 5.1%, Saudi Arabia 4.3% (2007)

Romania
  Germany 17.2%, Italy 12.8%, Hungary 6.9%, Russia 6.3%,
  France 6.2%, Turkey 5.4%, Austria 4.8% (2007)

Russia
  Germany 13.3%, China 12.2%, Ukraine 6.7%, Japan 6.4%, US
  4.8%, Belarus 4.4%, South Korea 4.4%, Italy 4.3% (2007)

Rwanda
  Kenya 19.6%, Uganda 6.9%, Germany 6.2%, Belgium 5.9%, China
  5% (2007)

Saint Helena
  UK 53.5%, South Africa 14.3%, Spain 10.3%, Tanzania
  8.5%, US 4.6% (2006)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  US 47.7%, Trinidad and Tobago 13.3%, UK 5.6%
  (2007)

Saint Lucia
  Brazil 63.6%, US 10.2%, Trinidad and Tobago 8.2% (2007)

Saint Martin
  US, Mexico (2006)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  France 51.3%, Canada 31.8%, Belgium 4.1%
  (2006)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  Singapore 15.9%, Trinidad and
  Tobago 14.9%, Italy 13.3%, US 13%, China 5% (2007)

Samoa
  NZ 22.1%, Fiji 17.2%, Singapore 16.1%, Australia 7.9%, Japan
  6.8%, Indonesia 5.4%, US 5.3% (2007)

Sao Tome and Principe
  Portugal 62.2%, US 11.6%, Gabon 4.5% (2007)

Saudi Arabia
  US 12.6%, China 9.4%, Germany 8.8%, Japan 8.1%, Italy
  5%, South Korea 4.9%, UK 4.5% (2007)

Senegal
  France 22.2%, Netherlands 10%, China 7.4%, UK 6.2%, Thailand
  5.2%, Belgium 4.5% (2007)

Seychelles
  Saudi Arabia 17.6%, Germany 10.8%, France 8.1%, Spain
  7.6%, South Africa 6.4%, Singapore 5.8% (2007)

Sierra Leone
  Cote d'Ivoire 10%, China 10%, US 9.5%, UK 6.2%,
  Netherlands 5.1%, India 4.7% (2007)

Singapore
  Malaysia 13.1%, US 12.5%, China 12.1%, Japan 8.2%, Taiwan
  5.9%, Indonesia 5.6%, South Korea 4.9% (2007)

Slovakia
  Germany 22.1%, Czech Republic 17.3%, Russia 9.2%, Hungary
  6.7%, Austria 5.1%, Poland 4.9%, South Korea 4.7% (2007)

Slovenia
  Germany 18.1%, Italy 17.1%, Austria 11.7%, France 5%,
  Croatia 4.6% (2007)

Solomon Islands
  Singapore 28.2%, Australia 25.4%, Japan 4.6%, NZ
  4.5%, Fiji 4% (2007)

Somalia
  Djibouti 34.4%, India 9.1%, Kenya 9%, Oman 6%, UAE 5.6%,
  Yemen 5.5% (2007)

South Africa
  Germany 10.9%, China 10%, Spain 8.2%, US 7.2%, Japan
  6.1%, UK 4.5%, Saudi Arabia 4.2% (2007)

Spain
  Germany 15.7%, France 12.7%, Italy 8.4%, China 5.8%, UK 4.8%,
  Netherlands 4.6% (2007)

Sri Lanka
  India 23.1%, Singapore 9.9%, China 8.2%, Iran 7.5%, Hong
  Kong 6.4% (2007)

Sudan
  China 27.9%, Saudi Arabia 7.5%, India 6.3%, Egypt 5.6%, UAE
  5.5%, Japan 4.2% (2007)

Suriname
  US 27%, Netherlands 17.3%, Trinidad and Tobago 14.3%, China
  5.9%, Japan 5.1% (2007)

Swaziland
  South Africa 95.6%, EU 0.9%, Japan 0.9% (2006)

Sweden
  Germany 18.4%, Denmark 9.2%, Norway 8.3%, UK 6.8%, Finland
  6.1%, Netherlands 5.8%, France 5%, China 4.3%, Belgium 4.1% (2007)

Switzerland
  Germany 32.6%, Italy 10.8%, France 9.5%, US 5.8%,
  Netherlands 4.6%, Austria 4.2%, UK 4.2% (2007)

Syria
  Saudi Arabia 12%, China 8.7%, Egypt 6.2%, Italy 6%, UAE 5.9%,
  Ukraine 4.8%, Russia 4.8%, Germany 4.7%, Iran 4.3% (2007)

Taiwan
  Japan 22.7%, US 13.3%, China 11.2%, South Korea 6.6%, Saudi
  Arabia 4.8%, Singapore 4.6% (2007)

Tajikistan
  Russia 32.1%, Kazakhstan 13.1%, China 10.8%, Uzbekistan
  8.4% (2007)

Tanzania
  China 12%, Kenya 8%, South Africa 7.7%, India 6.9%, UAE
  5.9% (2007)

Thailand
  Japan 20.3%, China 11.6%, US 6.8%, Malaysia 6.2%, UAE 4.9%,
  Singapore 4.5%, Taiwan 4.1% (2007)

Togo
  China 36.3%, Estonia 9.6%, US 7.6%, Netherlands 7.3%, France 7%
  (2007)

Tokelau
  New Zealand (2006)

Tonga
  Fiji 32.5%, NZ 27.5%, US 9%, Australia 7.4%, China 5% (2007)

Trinidad and Tobago
  US 28.2%, Brazil 11%, Venezuela 8.2%, Colombia
  5.4%, Gabon 4.9%, China 4.2% (2007)

Tunisia
  France 23.8%, Italy 21.9%, Germany 9.7%, Spain 5%, Libya
  4.4% (2007)

Turkey
  Russia 13.8%, Germany 10.3%, China 7.8%, Italy 5.9%, US 4.8%,
  France 4.6% (2007)

Turkmenistan
  UAE 14.3%, Russia 11.6%, Turkey 10.3%, China 9.1%,
  Ukraine 8.7%, Iran 7%, Germany 6.5%, US 5.6% (2007)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  US, UK (2006)

Tuvalu
  Fiji 46.1%, Japan 18.9%, China 18.2%, Australia 7.7%, NZ 4.1%
  (2006)

Uganda
  Kenya 31.8%, China 7.8%, UAE 7.7%, South Africa 5.9%, India
  5.2%, Japan 4.8% (2007)

Ukraine
  Russia 23.9%, Germany 11.8%, China 8.5%, Poland 8.1%,
  Turkmenistan 5.4% (2007)

United Arab Emirates
  China 12.8%, India 10%, US 8.7%, Japan 6.1%,
  Germany 5.9%, UK 5.3%, Italy 4.6% (2007)

United Kingdom
  Germany 14.2%, US 8.6%, China 7.3%, Netherlands 7.3%,
  France 6.9%, Belgium 4.7%, Norway 4.7%, Italy 4.2% (2007)

United States
  China 16.9%, Canada 15.7%, Mexico 10.6%, Japan 7.4%,
  Germany 4.8% (2007)

Uruguay
  Brazil 19.1%, Argentina 17.9%, US 9.5%, China 9.1%, Paraguay
  7.7%, Nigeria 4.7% (2007)

Uzbekistan
  Russia 30.1%, China 13.3%, South Korea 13%, Germany 6.3%,
  Kazakhstan 6.2%, Ukraine 4% (2007)

Vanuatu
  Australia 20.7%, Singapore 11.8%, NZ 11.2%, Norway 8.5%, US
  8.3%, Fiji 8.1%, China 7.2%, New Caledonia 4.5% (2007)

Venezuela
  US 26.6%, Colombia 13.5%, Brazil 9.5%, China 6.7%, Mexico
  5.2%, Panama 5% (2007)

Vietnam
  China 19.9%, Singapore 12.1%, Taiwan 11%, Japan 9.9%, South
  Korea 8.5%, Thailand 6% (2007)

Virgin Islands
  US, Puerto Rico (2006)

Wallis and Futuna
  France 97%, Australia 2%, NZ 1% (2006)

West Bank
  Israel, Jordan, Gaza Strip (2006)

Western Sahara
  Morocco claims and administers Western Sahara, so
  trade partners are included in overall Moroccan accounts (2006)

World
  China 10.7%, Germany 9.23%, US 8.28%, Japan 5.14%, France
  3.99% (2007)

Yemen
  UAE 15.1%, China 11.6%, US 7.8%, Saudi Arabia 7.1%, Kuwait
  5.3%, Germany 4.8% (2007)

Zambia
  South Africa 47.4%, UAE 6.3%, China 6%, India 4.1%, UK 4%
  (2007)

Zimbabwe
  South Africa 50.7%, China 8.4%, US 4.5%, Botswana 4.3%
  (2007)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2062  Economic aid - donor


Australia
  ODA, $2.123 billion (2006)

Austria
  ODA, $1.498 billion (2006)

Belgium
  ODA, $1.978 billion (2006)

Canada
  ODA, $3.9 billion (2007)

Cyprus
  $25.9 million (2006)

Denmark
  ODA, $2.236 billion (2006)

Finland
  ODA, $1.023 billion (2007)

France
  ODA, $10.6 billion (2006)

Germany
  ODA, $10.44 billion (2006)

Greece
  $424 million (2006)

Iceland
  $6.7 million (2004)

Ireland
  ODA, $1.022 billion (2006)

Italy
  ODA, $3.641 billion (2006)

Japan
  ODA, $11.19 billion (2006)

Korea, South
  ODA, $455.3 million (2006)

Luxembourg
  ODA, $291 million (2006)

Netherlands
  ODA, $5.452 billion (2006)

New Zealand
  ODA, $259 million (2006)

Norway
  ODA, $2.954 billion (2006)

Portugal
  ODA, $396 million (2006)

Saudi Arabia
  since 2002, Saudi Arabia has provided more than $480
  million in budgetary support to the Palestinian Authority, supported
  Palestinian refugees through contributions to the UN Relief and
  Works Agency (UNRWA), provided more than $250 million to Arab League
  funds for the Palestinians, and pledged $500 million in assistance
  over the next three years at the Donors Conference in Dec 2007;
  pledged $230 million to development in Afghanistan; pledged $1
  billion in export guarantees and soft loans to Iraq; pledged $133
  million in direct grant aid, $187 million in concessional loans, and
  $153 million in export credits for Pakistan earthquake relief;
  pledged a total of $1.59 billion to Lebanon in assistance and
  deposits to the Central Bank of Lebanon in 2006 and pledged an
  additional $1.1 billion in early 2007

Spain
  ODA, $3.814 billion (2006)

Sweden
  ODA, $3.955 billion (2006)

Switzerland
  ODA, $1.646 billion (2006)

United Arab Emirates
  since its founding in 1971, the Abu Dhabi Fund
  for Development has given about $5.2 billion in aid to 56 countries
  (2004)

United Kingdom
  ODA, $12.46 billion (2006)

United States
  ODA, $23.53 billion (2006)

This page was last updated on 13 November 2008



======================================================================




@2063  Constitution


Afghanistan
  new constitution drafted 14 December 2003-4 January
  2004; signed 16 January 2004

Akrotiri
  Sovereign Base Areas of Akrotiri and Dhekelia Order in
  Council 1960, effective 16 August 1960, functions as a basic legal
  document

Albania
  adopted by popular referendum on 22 November 1998;
  promulgated 28 November 1998

Algeria
  8 September 1963; revised 19 November 1976, effective 22
  November 1976; revised 3 November 1988, 23 February 1989, 28
  November 1996, and 12 November 2008

American Samoa
  ratified 2 June 1966, effective 1 July 1967

Andorra
  Andorra's first written constitution was drafted in 1991,
  approved by referendum 14 March 1993, effective 28 April 1993

Angola
  adopted by People's Assembly 25 August 1992

Anguilla
  Anguilla Constitutional Order 1 April 1982; amended 1990

Antigua and Barbuda
  1 November 1981

Argentina
  1 May 1853; amended many times starting in 1860

Armenia
  adopted by nationwide referendum 5 July 1995; amendments
  adopted through a nationwide referendum 27 November 2005

Aruba
  1 January 1986

Australia
  9 July 1900, effective 1 January 1901

Austria
  1920; revised 1929; reinstated 1 May 1945; note - during the
  period 1 May 1934-1 May 1945 there was a fascist (corporative)
  constitution in place

Azerbaijan
  adopted 12 November 1995

Bahamas, The
  10 July 1973

Bahrain
  adopted 14 February 2002

Bangladesh
  4 November 1972, effective 16 December 1972; suspended
  following coup of 24 March 1982, restored 10 November 1986; amended
  many times

Barbados
  30 November 1966

Belarus
  15 March 1994; revised by national referendum of 24 November
  1996 giving the presidency greatly expanded powers and became
  effective 27 November 1996; revised again 17 October 2004 removing
  presidential term limits

Belgium
  7 February 1831; amended many times; revised 14 July 1993 to
  create a federal state

Belize
  21 September 1981

Benin
  adopted by referendum 2 December 1990

Bermuda
  8 June 1968; amended 1989 and 2003

Bhutan
  ratified 23 July 2008

Bolivia
  2 February 1967; revised in August 1994; possible referendum
  on new constitution to be held in 2008

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  the Dayton Agreement, signed 14 December 1995
  in Paris, included a new constitution now in force; note - each of
  the entities also has its own constitution

Botswana
  March 1965, effective 30 September 1966

Brazil
  5 October 1988

British Virgin Islands
  13 June 2007

Brunei
  29 September 1959 (some provisions suspended under a State of
  Emergency since December 1962, others since independence on 1
  January 1984)

Bulgaria
  adopted 12 July 1991

Burkina Faso
  2 June 1991 approved by referendum, 11 June 1991
  formally adopted; last amended January 2002

Burma
  30 May 2008

Burundi
  28 February 2005; ratified by popular referendum

Cambodia
  promulgated 21 September 1993

Cameroon
  20 May 1972 approved by referendum, adopted 2 June 1972;
  revised January 1996

Canada
  made up of unwritten and written acts, customs, judicial
  decisions, and traditions; the written part of the constitution
  consists of the Constitution Act of 29 March 1867, which created a
  federation of four provinces, and the Constitution Act of 17 April
  1982, which transferred formal control over the constitution from
  Britain to Canada, and added a Canadian Charter of Rights and
  Freedoms as well as procedures for constitutional amendments

Cape Verde
  25 September 1992; a major revision on 23 November 1995
  substantially increased the powers of the president; a 1999 revision
  created the position of national ombudsman (Provedor de Justica)

Cayman Islands
  1959; revised 1962, 1972, and 1994

Central African Republic
  ratified by popular referendum 5 December
  2004; effective 27 December 2004

Chad
  passed by referendum 31 March 1996; a June 2005 referendum
  removed constitutional term limits

Chile
  11 September 1980, effective 11 March 1981; amended 1989,
  1991, 1997, 1999, 2000, 2003, and 2005

China
  most recent promulgation 4 December 1982

Christmas Island
  Christmas Island Act of 1958-59 (1 October 1958) as
  amended by the Territories Law Reform Act of 1992

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  Cocos (Keeling) Islands Act of 1955 (23
  November 1955) as amended by the Territories Law Reform Act of 1992

Colombia
  5 July 1991; amended many times

Comoros
  23 December 2001

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  18 February 2006

Congo, Republic of the
  approved by referendum 20 January 2002

Cook Islands
  4 August 1965

Costa Rica
  7 November 1949

Cote d'Ivoire
  approved by referendum 23 July 2000

Croatia
  adopted on 22 December 1990; revised 2000, 2001

Cuba
  24 February 1976; amended July 1992 and June 2002

Cyprus
  16 August 1960
  note: from December 1963, the Turkish Cypriots no longer
  participated in the government; negotiations to create the basis for
  a new or revised constitution to govern the island and for better
  relations between Greek and Turkish Cypriots have been held
  intermittently since the mid-1960s; in 1975, following the 1974
  Turkish intervention, Turkish Cypriots created their own
  constitution and governing bodies within the "Turkish Federated
  State of Cyprus," which became the "Turkish Republic of Northern
  Cyprus (TRNC)" when the Turkish Cypriots declared their independence
  in 1983; a new constitution for the "TRNC" passed by referendum on 5
  May 1985, although the "TRNC" remains unrecognized by any country
  other than Turkey

Czech Republic
  ratified 16 December 1992, effective 1 January 1993

Denmark
  5 June 1953 constitution allowed for a unicameral
  legislature and a female chief of state

Dhekelia
  Sovereign Base Areas of Akrotiri and Dhekelia Order in
  Council 1960, effective 16 August 1960, functions as a basic legal
  document

Djibouti
  multiparty constitution approved by referendum 4 September
  1992

Dominica
  3 November 1978

Dominican Republic
  28 November 1966; amended 25 July 2002

Ecuador
  10 August 1998

Egypt
  11 September 1971; amended 22 May 1980, 25 May 2005, and 26
  March 2007

El Salvador
  20 December 1983

Equatorial Guinea
  approved by national referendum 17 November 1991;
  amended January 1995

Eritrea
  a transitional constitution, decreed on 19 May 1993, was
  replaced by a new constitution adopted on 23 May 1997, but not yet
  implemented

Estonia
  adopted 28 June 1992

Ethiopia
  ratified 8 December 1994, effective 22 August 1995

European Union
  based on a series of treaties: the Treaty of Paris,
  which set up the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) in 1951;
  the Treaties of Rome, which set up the European Economic Community
  (EEC) and the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom) in 1957;
  the Single European Act in 1986; the Treaty on European Union
  (Maastricht) in 1992; the Treaty of Amsterdam in 1997; and the
  Treaty of Nice in 2003; note - a new draft Constitutional Treaty,
  signed on 29 October 2004 in Rome, gave member states two years for
  ratification either by parliamentary vote or national referendum
  before it was scheduled to take effect on 1 November 2006; defeat in
  French and Dutch referenda in May-June 2005 dealt a severe setback
  to the ratification process; in June 2007, the European Council
  agreed on a clear and concise mandate for an Intergovernmental
  Conference to form a political agreement and put it into legal form;
  this agreement, known as the Reform Treaty, would have served as a
  constitution and was presented to the European Council in October
  2007 for individual country ratification; it was rejected by Irish
  voters in June 2008, again stalling the ratification process

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  3 October 1985; amended 1997 and
  1998

Faroe Islands
  5 June 1953 (Danish constitution)

Fiji
  enacted on 25 July 1997 to encourage multiculturalism and make
  multiparty government mandatory; effective 28 July 1998

Finland
  1 March 2000

France
  adopted by referendum 28 September 1958, effective 4 October
  1958
  note: amended concerning election of president in 1962; amended to
  comply with provisions of 1992 EC Maastricht Treaty, 1997 Amsterdam
  Treaty, 2003 Treaty of Nice; amended to tighten immigration laws in
  1993; amended in 2000 to change the seven-year presidential term to
  a five-year term; amended in 2005 to make the EU constitutional
  treaty compatible with the Constitution of France and to ensure that
  the decision to ratify EU accession treaties would be made by
  referendum

French Polynesia
  4 October 1958 (French Constitution)

Gabon
  adopted 14 March 1991

Gambia, The
  approved by national referendum 8 August 1996; effective
  16 January 1997

Georgia
  adopted 24 August 1995

Germany
  23 May 1949, known as Basic Law; became constitution of the
  united Germany 3 October 1990

Ghana
  approved 28 April 1992

Gibraltar
  5 June 2006; came into force 2 January 2007

Greece
  11 June 1975; amended March 1986 and April 2001

Greenland
  5 June 1953 (Danish constitution)

Grenada
  19 December 1973

Guam
  Organic Act of Guam, 1 August 1950

Guatemala
  31 May 1985, effective 14 January 1986; note - suspended
  25 May 1993 by former President Jorge SERRANO; reinstated 5 June
  1993 following ouster of president; amended November 1993

Guernsey
  unwritten; partly statutes, partly common law and practice

Guinea
  23 December 1990 (Loi Fundamentale)

Guinea-Bissau
  16 May 1984; amended 4 May 1991, 4 December 1991, 26
  February 1993, 9 June 1993, and in 1996

Guyana
  6 October 1980

Haiti
  approved March 1987; suspended June 1988 with most articles
  reinstated March 1989; constitutional government ousted in a
  military coup in September 1991, although in October 1991, military
  government claimed to be observing the constitution; returned to
  constitutional rule in October 1994; constitution, while technically
  in force between 2004-2006, was not enforced; returned to
  constitutional rule in May 2006

Holy See (Vatican City)
  new Fundamental Law promulgated by Pope JOHN
  PAUL II on 26 November 2000, effective 22 February 2001 (replaces
  the first Fundamental Law of 1929)

Honduras
  11 January 1982, effective 20 January 1982; amended many
  times

Hong Kong
  Basic Law, approved in March 1990 by China's National
  People's Congress, is Hong Kong's "mini-constitution"

Hungary
  18 August 1949, effective 20 August 1949; revised 19 April
  1972; 18 October 1989 revision ensured legal rights for individuals
  and constitutional checks on the authority of the prime minister and
  also established the principle of parliamentary oversight; 1997
  amendment streamlined the judicial system

Iceland
  16 June 1944, effective 17 June 1944; amended many times

India
  26 January 1950; amended many times

Indonesia
  August 1945; abrogated by Federal Constitution of 1949 and
  Provisional Constitution of 1950, restored 5 July 1959; series of
  amendments concluded in 2002

Iran
  2-3 December 1979; revised 1989 to expand powers of the
  presidency and eliminate the prime ministership

Iraq
  ratified on 15 October 2005 (subject to review by the
  Constitutional Review Committee and a possible public referendum )

Ireland
  adopted 1 July 1937 by plebiscite; effective 29 December 1937

Isle of Man
  unwritten; note - The Isle of Man Constitution Act of
  1961 does not embody the unwritten Manx Constitution

Israel
  no formal constitution; some of the functions of a
  constitution are filled by the Declaration of Establishment (1948),
  the Basic Laws of the parliament (Knesset), and the Israeli
  citizenship law; note - since May 2003 the Constitution, Law, and
  Justice Committee of the Knesset has been working on a draft
  constitution

Italy
  passed 11 December 1947, effective 1 January 1948; amended
  many times

Jamaica
  6 August 1962

Japan
  3 May 1947

Jersey
  unwritten; partly statutes, partly common law and practice

Jordan
  1 January 1952; amended many times

Kazakhstan
  first post-independence constitution adopted 28 January
  1993; new constitution adopted by national referendum 30 August 1995

Kenya
  12 December 1963; amended as a republic 1964; reissued with
  amendments 1979, 1982, 1986, 1988, 1991, 1992, 1997, 2001; note - a
  new draft constitution was defeated by popular referendum in 2005

Kiribati
  12 July 1979

Korea, North
  adopted 1948; completely revised 27 December 1972,
  revised again in April 1992, and September 1998

Korea, South
  17 July 1948; note - amended or rewritten nine times;
  current constitution approved on 29 October 1987

Kosovo
  ratified 9 April 2008; effective 15 June 2008

Kuwait
  approved and promulgated 11 November 1962

Kyrgyzstan
  adopted 5 May 1993; note - amendment proposed by
  President Askar AKAYEV and passed in a national referendum on 2
  February 2003 significantly expanded the powers of the president at
  the expense of the legislature; during large-scale demonstrations in
  November 2006, President BAKIEV and the opposition negotiated a new
  constitution granting greater powers to the parliament and the
  government; amendments added on 30 December 2006 redistributed some
  power back to the president, but both November and December 2006
  versions were annulled in September 2007, and a new version was
  approved by referendum on 21 October 2007; the BAKIEV-initiated
  referendum was criticized by Western observers for voting
  irregularities, particularly ballot stuffing

Laos
  promulgated 14 August 1991

Latvia
  15 February 1922; restored to force by the Constitutional Law
  of the Republic of Latvia adopted by the Supreme Council on 21
  August 1991; multiple amendments since

Lebanon
  23 May 1926; amended a number of times, most recently
  Charter of Lebanese National Reconciliation (Ta'if Accord) of
  October 1989

Lesotho
  2 April 1993

Liberia
  6 January 1986

Libya
  none; note - following the September 1969 military overthrow
  of the Libyan government, the Revolutionary Command Council replaced
  the existing constitution with the Constitutional Proclamation in
  December 1969; in March 1977, Libya adopted the Declaration of the
  Establishment of the People's Authority

Liechtenstein
  5 October 1921

Lithuania
  adopted 25 October 1992

Luxembourg
  17 October 1868; occasional revisions

Macau
  Basic Law, approved on 31 March 1993 by China's National
  People's Congress, is Macau's "mini-constitution"

Macedonia
  adopted 17 November 1991, effective 20 November 1991;
  amended November 2001 by a series of new constitutional amendments
  strengthening minority rights and in 2005 with amendments related to
  the judiciary

Madagascar
  19 August 1992 by national referendum

Malawi
  18 May 1994

Malaysia
  31 August 1957 (amended many times, latest in 2007)

Maldives
  new constitution ratified 7 August 2008

Mali
  adopted 12 January 1992

Malta
  1964 constitution; amended many times

Marshall Islands
  1 May 1979

Mauritania
  12 July 1991

Mauritius
  12 March 1968; amended 12 March 1992

Mayotte
  4 October 1958 (French Constitution)

Mexico
  5 February 1917

Micronesia, Federated States of
  10 May 1979

Moldova
  new constitution adopted 29 July 1994, effective 27 August
  1994; replaced old Soviet constitution of 1979

Monaco
  17 December 1962

Mongolia
  12 February 1992

Montenegro
  19 October 2007 (approved by the Assembly)

Montserrat
  effective 19 December 1989

Morocco
  10 March 1972; revised 4 September 1992, amended (to create
  bicameral legislature) September 1996

Mozambique
  30 November 1990

Namibia
  ratified 9 February 1990, effective 12 March 1990

Nauru
  29 January 1968; amended 17 May 1968 (Constitution Day)

Nepal
  9 November 1990; note - a new interim constitution was
  promulgated in January 2007; the November 2006 peace agreement calls
  for the election of a Constituent Assembly to draft a new permanent
  constitution

Netherlands
  adopted 1815; amended many times, most recently in 2002

Netherlands Antilles
  29 December 1954, Statute of the Realm of the
  Netherlands, as amended

New Caledonia
  4 October 1958 (French Constitution)

New Zealand
  consists of a series of legal documents, including
  certain acts of the UK and New Zealand Parliaments, as well as The
  Constitution Act 1986, which is the principal formal charter;
  adopted 1 January 1987, effective 1 January 1987

Nicaragua
  9 January 1987; reforms in 1995, 2000, and 2005

Niger
  new constitution adopted 18 July 1999

Nigeria
  new constitution adopted 5 May 1999; effective 29 May 1999

Niue
  19 October 1974 (Niue Constitution Act)

Norfolk Island
  Norfolk Island Act of 1979, as amended in 2005

Northern Mariana Islands
  Constitution of the Commonwealth of the
  Northern Mariana Islands effective 1 January 1978; Covenant
  Agreement fully effective 4 November 1986

Norway
  17 May 1814; amended many times

Oman
  none; note - on 6 November 1996, Sultan QABOOS issued a royal
  decree promulgating a basic law considered by the government to be a
  constitution which, among other things, clarifies the royal
  succession, provides for a prime minister, bars ministers from
  holding interests in companies doing business with the government,
  establishes a bicameral legislature, and guarantees basic civil
  liberties for Omani citizens

Pakistan
  12 April 1973; suspended 5 July 1977, restored 30 December
  1985; suspended 15 October 1999, restored in stages in 2002; amended
  31 December 2003; suspended 3 November 2007; restored on 15 December
  2007

Palau
  1 January 1981

Panama
  11 October 1972; major reforms adopted 1978, 1983, 1994, and
  2004

Papua New Guinea
  16 September 1975

Paraguay
  promulgated 20 June 1992

Peru
  29 December 1993

Philippines
  2 February 1987, effective 11 February 1987

Pitcairn Islands
  30 November 1838; reformed 1904 with additional
  reforms in 1940; further refined by the Local Government Ordinance
  of 1964

Poland
  adopted by the National Assembly 2 April 1997; passed by
  national referendum 25 May 1997; effective 17 October 1997

Portugal
  adopted 2 April 1976; note - subsequent revisions of the
  Constitution placed the military under strict civilian control,
  trimmed the powers of the president, and laid the groundwork for a
  stable, pluralistic liberal democracy; as well, they allowed for the
  privatization of nationalized firms and the government-owned
  communications media

Puerto Rico
  ratified 3 March 1952; approved by US Congress 3 July
  1952; effective 25 July 1952

Qatar
  ratified by public referendum on 29 April 2003, endorsed by
  the Amir on 8 June 2004, effective on 9 June 2005

Romania
  8 December 1991; revision effective 29 October 2003

Russia
  adopted 12 December 1993

Rwanda
  new constitution passed by referendum 26 May 2003

Saint Barthelemy
  4 October 1958 (French Constitution)

Saint Helena
  1 January 1989

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  19 September 1983

Saint Lucia
  22 February 1979

Saint Martin
  4 October 1958 (French Constitution)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  4 October 1958 (French Constitution)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  27 October 1979

Samoa
  1 January 1962

San Marino
  8 October 1600; electoral law of 1926 serves some of the
  functions of a constitution

Sao Tome and Principe
  approved March 1990, effective 10 September
  1990

Saudi Arabia
  governed according to Islamic law; the Basic Law that
  articulates the government's rights and responsibilities was
  promulgated by royal decree in 1992

Senegal
  adopted 7 January 2001

Serbia
  adopted 8 November 2006; effective 10 November 2006

Seychelles
  18 June 1993

Sierra Leone
  1 October 1991; subsequently amended several times

Singapore
  3 June 1959; amended 1965 (based on preindependence State
  of Singapore Constitution)

Slovakia
  ratified 1 September 1992, effective 1 January 1993;
  changed in September 1998 to allow direct election of the president;
  amended February 2001 to allow Slovakia to apply for NATO and EU
  membership

Slovenia
  adopted 23 December 1991

Solomon Islands
  7 July 1978

Somalia
  25 August 1979, presidential approval 23 September 1979
  note: the formation of transitional governing institutions, known as
  the Transitional Federal Government, is currently ongoing

South Africa
  10 December 1996; this new constitution was certified
  by the Constitutional Court on 4 December 1996, was signed by then
  President MANDELA on 10 December 1996, and entered into effect on 4
  February 1997

Spain
  approved by legislature 31 October 1978; passed by referendum
  6 December 1978, effective 29 December 1978

Sri Lanka
  adopted 16 August 1978, certified 31 August 1978

Sudan
  constitution implemented on 30 June 1998, partially suspended
  12 December 1999 by President BASHIR; under the CPA, Interim
  National Constitution ratified 5 July 2005; Constitution of Southern
  Sudan signed December 2005

Suriname
  ratified 30 September 1987; effective 30 October 1987

Swaziland
  signed by the King in July 2005 went into effect on 8
  February 2006

Sweden
  1 January 1975

Switzerland
  revision of Constitution of 1874 approved by the Federal
  Parliament 18 December 1998, adopted by referendum 18 April 1999,
  officially entered into force 1 January 2000

Syria
  13 March 1973

Taiwan
  25 December 1947; amended in 1992, 1994, 1997, 1999, 2000,
  2005
  note: constitution adopted on 25 December 1946; went into effect on
  25 December 1947

Tajikistan
  6 November 1994

Tanzania
  25 April 1977; major revisions October 1984

Thailand
  constitution signed by King PHUMIPHON (BHUMIBOL) on 24
  August 2007

Timor-Leste
  22 March 2002 (based on the Portuguese model)

Togo
  multiparty draft constitution approved by High Council of the
  Republic 1 July 1992, adopted by public referendum 27 September 1992

Tokelau
  administered under the Tokelau Islands Act of 1948; amended
  in 1970

Tonga
  4 November 1875; revised 1 January 1967

Trinidad and Tobago
  1 August 1976

Tunisia
  1 June 1959; amended 1988, 2002

Turkey
  7 November 1982

Turkmenistan
  adopted 18 May 1992

Turks and Caicos Islands
  Turks and Caicos Islands Constitution Order
  2006 (effective 9 August 2006)

Tuvalu
  1 October 1978

Uganda
  8 October 1995; in 2005 the constitution was amended removing
  presidential term limits and legalizing a multiparty political system

Ukraine
  adopted 28 June 1996

United Arab Emirates
  2 December 1971; made permanent in 1996

United Kingdom
  unwritten; partly statutes, partly common law and
  practice

United States
  17 September 1787, effective 4 March 1789

Uruguay
  27 November 1966, effective 15 February 1967; suspended 27
  June 1973, new constitution rejected by referendum 30 November 1980;
  two constitutional reforms approved by plebiscite 26 November 1989
  and 7 January 1997

Uzbekistan
  adopted 8 December 1992

Vanuatu
  30 July 1980

Venezuela
  30 December 1999

Vietnam
  15 April 1992

Virgin Islands
  Revised Organic Act of 22 July 1954

Wallis and Futuna
  4 October 1958 (French Constitution)

Yemen
  16 May 1991; amended 29 September 1994 and February 2001

Zambia
  24 August 1991; amended in 1996 to establish presidential
  term limits

Zimbabwe
  21 December 1979

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2064  Economic aid - recipient


Afghanistan
  $2.775 billion (2005)

Albania
  ODA: $318.7 million
  note: top donors were Italy, EU, Germany (2005 est.)

Algeria
  $370.6 million (2005 est.)

American Samoa
  important financial support from the US, more than
  $40 million in 1994

Andorra
  $0

Angola
  $441.8 million (2005)

Anguilla
  $9 million (2004 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  $7.23 million (2005)

Argentina
  $99.66 million (2005)

Armenia
  ODA, $180 million (2007)

Aruba
  $11.3 million (2004)

Azerbaijan
  ODA, $223.4 million (2005 est.)

Bahamas, The
  $4.78 million (2004)

Bahrain
  $103.9 million (2004)

Bangladesh
  $1.321 billion (2005)

Barbados
  $2.07 million (2005)

Belarus
  $53.76 million (2005)

Belize
  $12.91 million (2005)

Benin
  $374.7 million (2006)

Bermuda
  $90,000 (2004)

Bhutan
  $941.2 million; note - substantial aid from India (2006)

Bolivia
  $582.9 million (2005 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  $546.1 million (2005 est.)

Botswana
  $70.89 million (2005)

Brazil
  $191.9 million (2005)

British Virgin Islands
  $NA

Brunei
  $770,000 (2004)

Bulgaria
  $742 million (2005-06 est.)

Burkina Faso
  $659.6 million (2005)

Burma
  $144.7 million (2005 est.)

Burundi
  $365 million (2005)

Cambodia
  $698.2 million pledged in grants and concession loans for
  2007 by international donors (2007)

Cameroon
  $413.8 million (2005)

Cape Verde
  $160.6 million (2005)

Cayman Islands
  $390,000 (2004)

Central African Republic
  ODA, $95.29 million; note - traditional
  budget subsidies from France (2005 est.)

Chad
  ODA, $379.8 million (2005)

Chile
  $0 (2006)

China
  $1.641 billion (FY07)

Christmas Island
  $NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  $NA

Colombia
  $511.1 million (2005)

Comoros
  $25.23 million (2005 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  $1.828 billion (2005)

Congo, Republic of the
  $1.449 billion (2005)

Cook Islands
  $13.1 million; note - New Zealand continues to furnish
  the greater part (1995)

Costa Rica
  $29.51 million (2005)

Cote d'Ivoire
  ODA, $60 million (2007 est.)

Croatia
  ODA, $125.4 million (2005)

Cuba
  $87.8 million (2005 est.)

Cyprus
  $15 million (2006)

Czech Republic
  $278.7 million in available EU structural adjustment
  and cohesion funds (2004)

Djibouti
  $78.6 million (2005)

Dominica
  $15.17 million (2005 est.)

Dominican Republic
  $76.99 million (2005)

Ecuador
  $209.5 million (2005)

Egypt
  ODA, $925.9 million (2005)

El Salvador
  $267.6 million of which $55 million from US (2005)

Equatorial Guinea
  $39 million (2005)

Eritrea
  $355.2 million (2005)

Estonia
  $135.5 million (2004)

Ethiopia
  $1.6 billion (FY05/06)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  $0 (1997 est.)

Faroe Islands
  $105 million; note - annual subsidy from Denmark (2005)

Fiji
  $63.96 million (2005)

French Polynesia
  $579.8 million (2004)

Gabon
  $53.87 million (2005)

Gambia, The
  $58.15 million (2005)

Gaza Strip
  $1.4 billion; (includes West Bank) (2006 est.)

Georgia
  ODA, $309.8 million (2005 est.)

Ghana
  $1.316 billion in loans and grants (2007)

Gibraltar
  $NA

Greece
  $8 billion annually from EU (2000-06); Greece will receive
  about $3.8 billion per year between 2007-13 under the EU's Community
  Support Funds IV

Greenland
  $512 million; note - subsidy from Denmark (2005)

Grenada
  $44.87 million (2005)

Guam
  Guam receives large transfer payments from the US Federal
  Treasury into which Guamanians pay no income or excise taxes; under
  the provisions of a special law of Congress, the Guam Treasury,
  rather than the US Treasury, receives federal income taxes paid by
  military and civilian Federal employees stationed in Guam (2001 est.)

Guatemala
  $253.6 million (2005 est.)

Guernsey
  $NA

Guinea
  $182.1 million (2005)

Guinea-Bissau
  $79.12 million (2005)

Guyana
  $136.8 million (2005)

Haiti
  $515 million (2005 est.)

Honduras
  $680.8 million (2005)

Hong Kong
  $6.95 million (2004)

Hungary
  $302.6 million (2004)

India
  $1.724 billion (2005)

Indonesia
  ODA, $2.524 billion (2006 est.)
  note: Indonesia ended 2006 with $67 billion in official foreign debt
  (about 25% of GDP), with Japan ($25 billion), the World Bank ($8.5
  billion) and the Asian Development Bank ($8.4 billion) as the
  largest creditors; about $6 billion in grant assistance was pledged
  to rebuild Aceh after the December 2004 tsunami; President YUDHOYONO
  disbanded the Consultative Group on Indonesia (CGI) donor forum in
  January 2007

Iran
  $104 million (2005 est.)

Iraq
  $21.65 billion (2005)

Isle of Man
  $NA

Israel
  $240 million from US (FY06)

Jamaica
  $35.74 million (2005)

Jordan
  ODA, $752 million (2005 est.)

Kazakhstan
  $229.2 million (2005)

Kenya
  $768.3 million (2005)

Kiribati
  $27.84 million largely from UK and Japan (2005)

Korea, North
  $372 million
  note: approximately 65,000 metric tons in food aid through the World
  Food Program appeals in 2007, plus additional aid from bilateral
  donors and non-governmental organizations (2007 est.)

Korea, South
  $68.07 million (2004)

Kosovo
  $324 million (2007)

Kuwait
  $2.6 million (2004)

Kyrgyzstan
  $268.5 million from the US (2005)

Laos
  $379 million (2006 est.)

Latvia
  $162 million (2004)

Lebanon
  of the $7.6 billion in grants and loans pledged to Lebanon
  at the Paris III conference in January 2007, Beirut as of
  mid-December 2007 had signed agreements for $3 billion, including $1
  billion in project financing, $750 million in direct budget support,
  $750 million in private sector credit, and $285 million in in-kind
  aid; about $500 million of the $1.7 billion pledged for direct
  budget support has been disbursed to Lebanon; donors in August 2006
  also pledged nearly $1.8 billion in aid to help Lebanon recover from
  the 2006 Israel-Hizballah war; during the conflict, Saudi Arabia and
  Kuwait provided $1.5 billion in concessional loans to the Lebanese
  central bank to maintain confidence in the Lebanese currency. (2005)

Lesotho
  $68.82 million (2005)

Liberia
  $236.2 million (2005)

Libya
  ODA, $24.44 million (2005 est.)

Lithuania
  $249.7 million (2004)

Macau
  $13.7 million (2004)

Macedonia
  $230.3 million (2005)

Madagascar
  $929.2 million (2005)

Malawi
  $575.3 million (2005)

Malaysia
  $31.6 million (2005)

Maldives
  $66.83 million (2005)

Mali
  $691.5 million (2005)

Malta
  $6.19 million (2004)

Marshall Islands
  $56.56 million (2005)

Mauritania
  $190.4 million (2005)

Mauritius
  $31.93 million (2005)

Mayotte
  $201.3 million; note - extensive French financial assistance
  (2005)

Mexico
  $189.4 million (2005)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  $106.4 million (2005)

Moldova
  $191.8 million (2005)

Monaco
  $NA

Mongolia
  $159.5 million (2006)

Montenegro
  $NA

Montserrat
  Country Policy Plan (2001) is a three-year program for
  spending $122.8 million in British budgetary assistance (2002 est.)

Morocco
  ODA, $651.8 million (2005)

Mozambique
  $1.286 billion (2005)

Namibia
  ODA, $123.4 million (2005 est.)

Nauru
  $20 million mostly from Australia (2005)

Nepal
  $427.9 million (2005)

Netherlands Antilles
  $21.32 million (2004)

New Caledonia
  $524.3 million annual subsidy from France (2004)

Nicaragua
  $471 million (2006 est.)

Niger
  $515.4 million (2005)

Nigeria
  $6.437 billion (2005)

Niue
  $2.6 million from New Zealand (2002)

Norfolk Island
  $NA

Northern Mariana Islands
  extensive funding from US

Oman
  $30.68 million (2005)

Pakistan
  $1.666 billion (2005)

Palau
  $23.46 million (2005)

Panama
  $19.54 million (2005)

Papua New Guinea
  $266.1 million (2005)

Paraguay
  $51.09 million (2005)

Peru
  $397.8 million (2005)

Philippines
  ODA, $451.4 million in commitments (2006)

Pitcairn Islands
  $3.465 million (2004)

Poland
  $1.524 billion in available EU structural adjustment and
  cohesion funds (2004)

Puerto Rico
  $NA

Qatar
  $2.18 million (2004)

Romania
  $914.3 million (2004)

Russia
  $982.7 million in FY06 from US, including $847 million in
  non-proliferation subsidies

Rwanda
  $576 million (2005)

Saint Helena
  $29.56 million obtained in a grant from the United
  Kingdom (FY06/07)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  $3.52 million (2005)

Saint Lucia
  $11.06 million (2005)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  approximately $60 million in annual grants
  from France

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  $4.89 million (1995); note - EU
  $34.5 million (2005)

Samoa
  $43.95 million (2005)

San Marino
  $NA

Sao Tome and Principe
  $31.9 million in December 2000 under the
  Heavily Indebted Poor Country Initiative (HIPC) program (2005)

Saudi Arabia
  $26.29 million (2005)

Senegal
  $477 million (2007 est.)

Serbia
  $2 billion pledged in 2001 to Serbia and Montenegro
  (disbursements to follow over several years; some aid pledged by EU
  and US has been placed on hold because of lack of cooperation by
  Serbia in handing over General Ratko MLADIC to the criminal court in
  The Hague)

Seychelles
  $18.81 million (2005)

Sierra Leone
  $343.4 million (2005 est.)

Singapore
  $0 (2007)

Slovakia
  $235 million in available EU structural adjustment and
  cohesion funds (2004)

Slovenia
  ODA, $484 million (2004-06)

Solomon Islands
  $198.2 million annually, mainly from Australia (2005
  est.)

Somalia
  $236.4 million (2005 est.)

South Africa
  $700 million (2005)

Sri Lanka
  $1.189 billion (2005)

Sudan
  $1.829 billion (2005)

Suriname
  $43.97 million (2005)

Svalbard
  $8.2 million from Norway (1998)

Swaziland
  $46.03 million (2005)

Syria
  $213 million (2008 est.)

Tajikistan
  $241.4 million from US (2005)

Tanzania
  $1.505 billion (2005)

Thailand
  $171.1 million (2005)

Timor-Leste
  $184.7 million (2005 est.)

Togo
  ODA, $86.71 million (2005 est.)

Tonga
  $31.75 million (2005)

Trinidad and Tobago
  $200,000 (2007 est.)

Tunisia
  $376.5 million (2005)

Turkey
  ODA, $464 million (2005)

Turkmenistan
  $28.25 million from the US (2005)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  $4.1 million (1997)

Tuvalu
  $10.49 million
  note: includes distributions from the Tuvalu Trust Fund (2006)

Uganda
  $1.198 billion (2005)

Ukraine
  $409.6 million (1995); IMF Extended Funds Facility $2.2
  billion (2005)

United Arab Emirates
  $5.36 million (2004)

Uruguay
  $14.62 million (2005)

Uzbekistan
  $172.3 million from the US (2005)

Vanuatu
  $39.48 million (2005)

Venezuela
  $48.66 million (2005)

Vietnam
  $5.4 billion in credits and grants pledged by the 2007
  Consultative Group meeting in Hanoi (2007)

Virgin Islands
  $NA

Wallis and Futuna
  assistance from France, $NA

West Bank
  $1.4 billion; (includes Gaza Strip) (2006 est.)

Western Sahara
  $NA

World
  ODA, $106.4 billion (2005)

Yemen
  $2.3 billion (2003-07 disbursements)

Zambia
  $504 million (2007)

Zimbabwe
  $367.7 million (2005 est.)

This page was last updated on 13 November 2008



======================================================================




@2065  Currency (code)


Afghanistan
  afghani (AFA)

Akrotiri
  euro (EUR) adopted 1 January 2008; note - the Cypriot pound
  (CYP) formerly used

Albania
  lek (ALL)
  note: the plural of lek is leke

Algeria
  Algerian dinar (DZD)

American Samoa
  US dollar (USD)

Andorra
  euro (EUR)

Angola
  kwanza (AOA)

Anguilla
  East Caribbean dollar (XCD)

Antigua and Barbuda
  East Caribbean dollar (XCD)

Argentina
  Argentine peso (ARS)

Armenia
  dram (AMD)

Aruba
  Aruban guilder/florin (AWG)

Australia
  Australian dollar (AUD)

Austria
  euro (EUR)

Azerbaijan
  Azerbaijani manat (AZN)

Bahamas, The
  Bahamian dollar (BSD)

Bahrain
  Bahraini dinar (BHD)

Bangladesh
  taka (BDT)

Barbados
  Barbadian dollar (BBD)

Belarus
  Belarusian ruble (BYB/BYR)

Belgium
  euro (EUR)

Belize
  Belizean dollar (BZD)

Benin
  Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note -
  responsible authority is the Central Bank of the West African States

Bermuda
  Bermudian dollar (BMD)

Bhutan
  ngultrum (BTN); Indian rupee (INR)

Bolivia
  boliviano (BOB)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  konvertibilna marka (convertible mark) (BAM)

Botswana
  pula (BWP)

Brazil
  real (BRL)

British Indian Ocean Territory
  US Dollar (USD)

British Virgin Islands
  US dollar (USD)

Brunei
  Bruneian dollar (BND)

Bulgaria
  lev (BGN)

Burkina Faso
  Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note -
  responsible authority is the Central Bank of the West African States

Burma
  kyat (MMK)

Burundi
  Burundi franc (BIF)

Cambodia
  riel (KHR)

Cameroon
  Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XAF); note -
  responsible authority is the Bank of the Central African States

Canada
  Canadian dollar (CAD)

Cape Verde
  Cape Verdean escudo (CVE)

Cayman Islands
  Caymanian dollar (KYD)

Central African Republic
  Communaute Financiere Africaine franc
  (XAF); note - responsible authority is the Bank of the Central
  African States

Chad
  Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XAF); note - responsible
  authority is the Bank of the Central African States

Chile
  Chilean peso (CLP)

China
  Renminbi (RMB); note - also referred to by the unit yuan (CNY)

Christmas Island
  Australian dollar (AUD)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  Australian dollar (AUD)

Colombia
  Colombian peso (COP)

Comoros
  Comoran franc (KMF)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  Congolese franc (CDF)

Congo, Republic of the
  Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XAF);
  note - responsible authority is the Bank of the Central African
  States

Cook Islands
  NZ dollar (NZD)

Costa Rica
  Costa Rican colon (CRC)

Cote d'Ivoire
  Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note -
  responsible authority is the Central Bank of the West African States

Croatia
  kuna (HRK)

Cuba
  Cuban peso (CUP) and Convertible peso (CUC)

Cyprus
  Cypriot pound (CYP); euro (EUR) after 1 January 2008

Czech Republic
  Czech koruna (CZK)

Denmark
  Danish krone (DKK)

Dhekelia
  euro (EUR) adopted 1 January 2008; note - the Cypriot pound
  (CYP) formerly used

Djibouti
  Djiboutian franc (DJF)

Dominica
  East Caribbean dollar (XCD)

Dominican Republic
  Dominican peso (DOP)

Ecuador
  US dollar (USD)

Egypt
  Egyptian pound (EGP)

El Salvador
  US dollar (USD)

Equatorial Guinea
  Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XAF); note
  - responsible authority is the Bank of the Central African States

Eritrea
  nakfa (ERN)

Estonia
  Estonian kroon (EEK)

Ethiopia
  birr (ETB)

European Union
  euro, British pound, Bulgarian lev, Czech koruna,
  Danish krone, Estonian kroon, Hungarian forint, Latvian lat,
  Lithuanian litas, Polish zloty, Romanian leu, Slovak koruna, Swedish
  krona

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  Falkland pound (FKP)

Faroe Islands
  Danish krone (DKK)

Fiji
  Fijian dollar (FJD)

Finland
  euro (EUR)

France
  euro (EUR)

French Polynesia
  Comptoirs Francais du Pacifique franc (XPF)

Gabon
  Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XAF); note -
  responsible authority is the Bank of the Central African States

Gambia, The
  dalasi (GMD)

Gaza Strip
  new Israeli shekel (ILS)

Georgia
  lari (GEL)

Germany
  euro (EUR)

Ghana
  Ghana cedi (GHC)

Gibraltar
  Gibraltar pound (GIP)

Greece
  euro (EUR)

Greenland
  Danish krone (DKK)

Grenada
  East Caribbean dollar (XCD)

Guam
  US dollar (USD)

Guatemala
  quetzal (GTQ), US dollar (USD), others allowed

Guernsey
  Guernsey pound
  note: the British pound is also legal tender

Guinea
  Guinean franc (GNF)

Guinea-Bissau
  Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note -
  responsible authority is the Central Bank of the West African States

Guyana
  Guyanese dollar (GYD)

Haiti
  gourde (HTG)

Holy See (Vatican City)
  euro (EUR)

Honduras
  lempira (HNL)

Hong Kong
  Hong Kong dollar (HKD)

Hungary
  forint (HUF)

Iceland
  Icelandic krona (ISK)

India
  Indian rupee (INR)

Indonesia
  Indonesian rupiah (IDR)

Iran
  Iranian rial (IRR)

Iraq
  New Iraqi dinar (NID) as of 22 January 2004

Ireland
  euro (EUR)

Isle of Man
  Isle of Man pound (IMP), also known as the Manx pound
  note: the British pound is also legal tender, but change is given in
  IMP

Israel
  new Israeli shekel (ILS); note - NIS is the currency
  abbreviation; ILS is the International Organization for
  Standardization (ISO) code for the NIS

Italy
  euro (EUR)

Jamaica
  Jamaican dollar (JMD)

Japan
  yen (JPY)

Jersey
  Jersey pound
  note: the British pound is also legal tender

Jordan
  Jordanian dinar (JOD)

Kazakhstan
  tenge (KZT)

Kenya
  Kenyan shilling (KES)

Kiribati
  Australian dollar (AUD)

Korea, North
  North Korean won (KPW)

Korea, South
  South Korean won (KRW)

Kosovo
  euro (EUR); Serbian Dinar (RSD) is also in circulation

Kuwait
  Kuwaiti dinar (KD)

Kyrgyzstan
  som (KGS)

Laos
  kip (LAK)

Latvia
  lat (LVL)

Lebanon
  Lebanese pound (LBP)

Lesotho
  loti (LSL); South African rand (ZAR)

Liberia
  Liberian dollar (LRD)

Libya
  Libyan dinar (LYD)

Liechtenstein
  Swiss franc (CHF)

Lithuania
  litas (LTL)

Luxembourg
  euro (EUR)

Macau
  pataca (MOP)

Macedonia
  Macedonian denar (MKD)

Madagascar
  ariary (MGA)

Malawi
  Malawian kwacha (MWK)

Malaysia
  ringgit (MYR)

Maldives
  rufiyaa (MVR)

Mali
  Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note - responsible
  authority is the Central Bank of the West African States

Malta
  euro (EUR) as of 1 January 2008; Maltese lira (MTL) before then

Marshall Islands
  US dollar (USD)

Mauritania
  ouguiya (MRO)

Mauritius
  Mauritian rupee (MUR)

Mayotte
  euro (EUR)

Mexico
  Mexican peso (MXN)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  US dollar (USD)

Moldova
  Moldovan leu (MDL)

Monaco
  euro (EUR)

Mongolia
  togrog/tugrik (MNT)

Montenegro
  euro (EUR)

Montserrat
  East Caribbean dollar (XCD)

Morocco
  Moroccan dirham (MAD)

Mozambique
  metical (MZM)

Namibia
  Namibian dollar (NAD); South African rand (ZAR)

Nauru
  Australian dollar (AUD)

Nepal
  Nepalese rupee (NPR)

Netherlands
  euro (EUR)

Netherlands Antilles
  Netherlands Antillean guilder (ANG)

New Caledonia
  Comptoirs Francais du Pacifique franc (XPF)

New Zealand
  New Zealand dollar (NZD)

Nicaragua
  gold cordoba (NIO)

Niger
  Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note -
  responsible authority is the Central Bank of the West African States

Nigeria
  naira (NGN)

Niue
  New Zealand dollar (NZD)

Norfolk Island
  Australian dollar (AUD)

Northern Mariana Islands
  US dollar (USD)

Norway
  Norwegian krone (NOK)

Oman
  Omani rial (OMR)

Pakistan
  Pakistani rupee (PKR)

Palau
  US dollar (USD)

Panama
  balboa (PAB); US dollar (USD)

Papua New Guinea
  kina (PGK)

Paraguay
  guarani (PYG)

Peru
  nuevo sol (PEN)

Philippines
  Philippine peso (PHP)

Pitcairn Islands
  New Zealand dollar (NZD)

Poland
  zloty (PLN)

Portugal
  euro (EUR)

Puerto Rico
  US dollar (USD)

Qatar
  Qatari rial (QAR)

Romania
  "new" leu (RON) was introduced in 2005; "old" leu (ROL) was
  phased out in 2006; note - because of currency revaluation, 10,000
  ROL = 1 RON

Russia
  Russian ruble (RUB)

Rwanda
  Rwandan franc (RWF)

Saint Barthelemy
  euro (EUR); note - US dollar (USD) widely used

Saint Helena
  Saint Helenian pound (SHP)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  East Caribbean dollar (XCD)

Saint Lucia
  East Caribbean dollar (XCD)

Saint Martin
  euro (EUR); note - US dollar (USD) widely used

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  euro (EUR)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  East Caribbean dollar (XCD)

Samoa
  tala (SAT)

San Marino
  euro (EUR)

Sao Tome and Principe
  dobra (STD)

Saudi Arabia
  Saudi riyal (SAR)

Senegal
  Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note -
  responsible authority is the Central Bank of the West African States

Serbia
  Serbian dinar (RSD)

Seychelles
  Seychelles rupee (SCR)

Sierra Leone
  leone (SLL)

Singapore
  Singapore dollar (SGD)

Slovakia
  Slovak koruna (SKK)

Slovenia
  euro (EUR)
  note: on 1 January 2007, the euro became Slovenia's currency; both
  the tolar and the euro were in circulation from 1 January until 15
  January 2007

Solomon Islands
  Solomon Islands dollar (SBD)

Somalia
  Somali shilling (SOS)

South Africa
  rand (ZAR)

Spain
  euro (EUR)

Sri Lanka
  Sri Lankan rupee (LKR)

Sudan
  Sudanese pounds (SDG)

Suriname
  Surinam dollar (SRD)

Svalbard
  Norwegian krone (NOK)

Swaziland
  lilangeni (SZL)

Sweden
  Swedish krona (SEK)

Switzerland
  Swiss franc (CHF)

Syria
  Syrian pound (SYP)

Taiwan
  New Taiwan dollar (TWD)

Tajikistan
  somoni (TJS)

Tanzania
  Tanzanian shilling (TZS)

Thailand
  baht (THB)

Timor-Leste
  US dollar (USD)

Togo
  Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note - responsible
  authority is the Central Bank of the West African States

Tokelau
  New Zealand dollar (NZD)

Tonga
  pa'anga (TOP)

Trinidad and Tobago
  Trinidad and Tobago dollar (TTD)

Tunisia
  Tunisian dinar (TND)

Turkey
  Turkish lira (TRY); old Turkish lira (TRL) before 1 January
  2005

Turkmenistan
  Turkmen manat (TMM)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  US dollar (USD)

Tuvalu
  Australian dollar (AUD); note - there is also a Tuvaluan
  dollar

Uganda
  Ugandan shilling (UGX)

Ukraine
  hryvnia (UAH)

United Arab Emirates
  Emirati dirham (AED)

United Kingdom
  British pound (GBP)

United States
  US dollar (USD)

Uruguay
  Uruguayan peso (UYU)

Uzbekistan
  soum (UZS)

Vanuatu
  vatu (VUV)

Venezuela
  bolivar (VEB)

Vietnam
  dong (VND)

Virgin Islands
  US dollar (USD)

Wallis and Futuna
  Comptoirs Francais du Pacifique franc (XPF)

West Bank
  new Israeli shekel (ILS); Jordanian dinar (JOD)

Western Sahara
  Moroccan dirham (MAD)

Yemen
  Yemeni rial (YER)

Zambia
  Zambian kwacha (ZMK)

Zimbabwe
  Zimbabwean dollar (ZWD)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2066  Death rate (deaths/1,000 population)


Afghanistan
  19.56 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Albania
  5.44 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Algeria
  4.62 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

American Samoa
  4.13 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Andorra
  5.59 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Angola
  24.44 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Anguilla
  4.39 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  6.14 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Argentina
  7.43 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Armenia
  8.34 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Aruba
  7.65 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Australia
  6.68 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Austria
  9.91 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Azerbaijan
  8.32 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Bahamas, The
  9.22 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Bahrain
  4.29 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Bangladesh
  8 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Barbados
  8.58 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Belarus
  13.92 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Belgium
  10.38 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Belize
  5.77 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Benin
  9.69 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Bermuda
  7.98 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Bhutan
  7.54 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Bolivia
  7.35 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  8.54 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Botswana
  14.02 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Brazil
  6.35 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  4.37 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Brunei
  3.28 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Bulgaria
  14.3 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Burkina Faso
  13.59 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Burma
  9.23 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Burundi
  12.91 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Cambodia
  8.16 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Cameroon
  12.41 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Canada
  7.61 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Cape Verde
  6.26 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Cayman Islands
  4.83 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Central African Republic
  18.04 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Chad
  16.39 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Chile
  5.77 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

China
  7.03 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Christmas Island
  NA (2008 est.)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  NA (2008 est.)

Colombia
  5.54 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Comoros
  7.76 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  11.88 deaths/1,000 population
  (2008 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  12.28 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Cook Islands
  NA (2008 est.)

Costa Rica
  4.31 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  11.17 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Croatia
  11.66 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Cuba
  7.19 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Cyprus
  7.76 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Czech Republic
  10.69 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Denmark
  10.25 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Djibouti
  19.16 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Dominica
  8.32 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Dominican Republic
  5.3 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Ecuador
  4.21 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Egypt
  5.09 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

El Salvador
  5.53 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  9.72 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Eritrea
  8.63 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Estonia
  13.35 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Ethiopia
  11.83 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

European Union
  10.39 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  NA (2008 est.)

Faroe Islands
  8.67 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Fiji
  5.66 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Finland
  10 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

France
  8.48 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

French Polynesia
  4.67 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Gabon
  12.59 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Gambia, The
  11.74 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Gaza Strip
  3.53 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Georgia
  9.51 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Germany
  10.8 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Ghana
  9.39 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Gibraltar
  9.46 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Greece
  10.42 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Greenland
  8.23 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Grenada
  6.31 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Guam
  4.65 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Guatemala
  5.19 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Guernsey
  10.09 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Guinea
  11.29 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  16.05 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Guyana
  8.29 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Haiti
  10.15 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Honduras
  5.36 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Hong Kong
  6.6 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Hungary
  12.99 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Iceland
  6.81 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

India
  6.4 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Indonesia
  6.24 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Iran
  5.69 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Iraq
  5.14 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Ireland
  7.77 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Isle of Man
  11.02 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Israel
  5.41 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Italy
  10.61 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Jamaica
  6.37 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Japan
  9.26 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Jersey
  9.36 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Jordan
  2.72 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Kazakhstan
  9.39 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Kenya
  10.3 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Kiribati
  7.97 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Korea, North
  7.29 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Korea, South
  5.73 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Kuwait
  2.37 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  6.97 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Laos
  11.02 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Latvia
  13.63 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Lebanon
  6.06 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Lesotho
  22.33 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Liberia
  21.45 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Libya
  3.46 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Liechtenstein
  7.42 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Lithuania
  11.12 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Luxembourg
  8.43 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Macau
  3.43 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Macedonia
  8.81 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Madagascar
  8.32 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Malawi
  17.89 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Malaysia
  5.02 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Maldives
  3.66 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Mali
  16.16 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Malta
  8.29 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Marshall Islands
  4.57 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Mauritania
  11.61 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Mauritius
  6.55 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Mayotte
  7.36 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Mexico
  4.78 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  4.53 deaths/1,000 population (2008
  est.)

Moldova
  10.8 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Monaco
  12.96 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Mongolia
  6.16 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Montenegro
  8.51 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Montserrat
  8.86 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Morocco
  5.49 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Mozambique
  20.29 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Namibia
  14.07 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Nauru
  6.54 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Nepal
  8.97 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Netherlands
  8.71 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  6.43 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

New Caledonia
  5.64 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

New Zealand
  7 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Nicaragua
  4.33 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Niger
  20.26 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Nigeria
  16.88 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Niue
  NA (2008 est.)

Norfolk Island
  NA (2008 est.)

Northern Mariana Islands
  2.31 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Norway
  9.33 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Oman
  3.68 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Pakistan
  7.85 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Palau
  6.73 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Panama
  4.71 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  6.96 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Paraguay
  4.49 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Peru
  6.16 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Philippines
  5.15 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Pitcairn Islands
  NA (2008 est.)

Poland
  9.99 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Portugal
  10.62 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Puerto Rico
  7.88 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Qatar
  2.47 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Romania
  11.84 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Russia
  16.06 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Rwanda
  14.46 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Saint Helena
  6.58 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  8.19 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Saint Lucia
  6.71 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  6.81 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  5.96 deaths/1,000 population (2008
  est.)

Samoa
  5.84 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

San Marino
  8.37 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe
  5.98 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  2.49 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Senegal
  10.72 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Seychelles
  6.21 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Sierra Leone
  22.26 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Singapore
  4.53 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Slovakia
  9.5 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Slovenia
  10.51 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Solomon Islands
  3.81 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Somalia
  15.89 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

South Africa
  16.94 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Spain
  9.9 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Sri Lanka
  6.07 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Sudan
  13.64 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Suriname
  5.51 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Svalbard
  NA (2008 est.)

Swaziland
  30.7 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Sweden
  10.24 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Switzerland
  8.54 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Syria
  4.68 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Taiwan
  6.65 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Tajikistan
  6.94 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Tanzania
  12.92 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Thailand
  7.17 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Timor-Leste
  6.02 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Togo
  9.48 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Tokelau
  NA (2008 est.)

Tonga
  5.12 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  10.93 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Tunisia
  5.17 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Turkey
  6.02 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Turkmenistan
  6.11 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  4.16 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Tuvalu
  6.98 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Uganda
  12.32 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Ukraine
  15.93 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  2.13 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

United Kingdom
  10.05 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

United States
  8.27 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Uruguay
  9.12 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Uzbekistan
  5.3 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Vanuatu
  7.61 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Venezuela
  5.1 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Vietnam
  6.18 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Virgin Islands
  6.55 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Wallis and Futuna
  NA (2008 est.)

West Bank
  3.7 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Western Sahara
  11.74 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

World
  8.23 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Yemen
  7.83 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Zambia
  21.35 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Zimbabwe
  17.29 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2068  Dependent areas


Australia
  Ashmore and Cartier Islands, Christmas Island, Cocos
  (Keeling) Islands, Coral Sea Islands, Heard Island and McDonald
  Islands, Norfolk Island, Macquarie Island

France
  Clipperton Island, French Polynesia, French Southern and
  Antarctic Lands, Mayotte, New Caledonia, Saint Barthelemy, Saint
  Martin, Wallis and Futuna
  note: the US does not recognize claims to Antarctica; New Caledonia
  has been considered a "sui generis" collectivity of France since
  1999, a unique status falling between that of an independent country
  and a French overseas department

Netherlands
  Aruba, Netherlands Antilles

New Zealand
  Cook Islands, Niue, Tokelau

Norway
  Bouvet Island, Jan Mayen, Svalbard

United Kingdom
  Anguilla, Bermuda, British Indian Ocean Territory,
  British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Falkland Islands, Gibraltar,
  Montserrat, Pitcairn Islands, Saint Helena, South Georgia and the
  South Sandwich Islands, Turks and Caicos Islands

United States
  American Samoa, Baker Island, Guam, Howland Island,
  Jarvis Island, Johnston Atoll, Kingman Reef, Midway Islands, Navassa
  Island, Northern Mariana Islands, Palmyra Atoll, Puerto Rico, Virgin
  Islands, Wake Island
  note: from 18 July 1947 until 1 October 1994, the US administered
  the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands; it entered into a
  political relationship with all four political units: the Northern
  Mariana Islands is a commonwealth in political union with the US
  (effective 3 November 1986); the Republic of the Marshall Islands
  signed a Compact of Free Association with the US (effective 21
  October 1986); the Federated States of Micronesia signed a Compact
  of Free Association with the US (effective 3 November 1986); Palau
  concluded a Compact of Free Association with the US (effective 1
  October 1994)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2070  Disputes - international


Afghanistan
  Pakistan has built fences in some portions of its border
  with Afghanistan which remains open in some areas to foreign
  terrorists and other illegal activities

Albania
  the Albanian Government calls for the protection of the
  rights of ethnic Albanians in neighboring countries, and the
  peaceful resolution of interethnic disputes; some ethnic Albanian
  groups in neighboring countries advocate for a "greater Albania,"
  but the idea has little appeal among Albanian nationals; the mass
  emigration of unemployed Albanians remains a problem for developed
  countries, chiefly Greece and Italy

Algeria
  Algeria, and many other states, rejects Moroccan
  administration of Western Sahara; the Polisario Front, exiled in
  Algeria, represents the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic; Algeria's
  border with Morocco remains an irritant to bilateral relations, each
  nation accusing the other of harboring militants and arms smuggling;
  Algeria remains concerned about armed bandits operating throughout
  the Sahel who sometimes destabilize southern Algerian towns; dormant
  disputes include Libyan claims of about 32,000 sq km still reflected
  on its maps of southeastern Algeria and the FLN's assertions of a
  claim to Chirac Pastures in southeastern Morocco

American Samoa
  Tokelau periodically asserts claims to American
  Samoa's Swains Island (Olohega), such as in its 2006 draft
  independence constitution

Andorra
  none

Angola
  Cabindan separatists continue to return to the Angolan
  exclave from exile in neighboring states and Europe since the 2006
  ceasefire and peace agreement

Anguilla
  none

Antarctica
  the Antarctic Treaty freezes, and most states do not
  recognize, the land and maritime territorial claims made by
  Argentina, Australia, Chile, France, New Zealand, Norway, and the
  United Kingdom (some overlapping) for three-fourths of the
  continent; the US and Russia reserve the right to make claims; no
  claims have been made in the sector between 90 degrees west and 150
  degrees west; the International Whaling Commission created a
  sancturary around the entire continent to deter catches by countries
  claiming to conduct scientific whaling; Australia has established a
  similar preserve in the waters around its territorial claim

Antigua and Barbuda
  none

Arctic Ocean
  the littoral states are engaged in various stages of
  demonstrating the limits of their continental shelves beyond 200
  nautical miles from their declared baselines in accordance with
  Article 76, paragraph 8, of the United Nations Convention on the Law
  of the Sea; record summer melting of sea ice in the Arctic has
  restimulated interest in maritime shipping lanes and sea floor
  exploration

Argentina
  Argentina continues to assert its claims to the
  UK-administered Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas), South Georgia,
  and the South Sandwich Islands in its constitution, forcibly
  occupying the Falklands in 1982, but in 1995 agreed no longer to
  seek settlement by force; territorial claim in Antarctica partially
  overlaps UK and Chilean claims; unruly region at convergence of
  Argentina-Brazil-Paraguay borders is locus of money laundering,
  smuggling, arms and illegal narcotics trafficking, and fundraising
  for extremist organizations; uncontested dispute between Brazil and
  Uruguay over Braziliera/Brasiliera Island in the Quarai/Cuareim
  River leaves the tripoint with Argentina in question; in 2006,
  Argentina went to the ICJ to protest, on environmental grounds, the
  construction of two pulp mills in Uruguay on the Uruguay River,
  which forms the boundary; both parties presented their pleadings in
  2007 with Argentina's reply in January and Uruguay's rejoinder in
  July 2008; the joint boundary commission, established by Chile and
  Argentina in 2001 has yet to map and demarcate the delimited
  boundary in the inhospitable Andean Southern Ice Field (Campo de
  Hielo Sur)

Armenia
  Armenia supports ethnic Armenian secessionists in
  Nagorno-Karabakh and since the early 1990s, has militarily occupied
  16% of Azerbaijan - Organization for Security and Cooperation in
  Europe (OSCE) continues to mediate dispute; over 800,000 mostly
  ethnic Azerbaijanis were driven from the occupied lands and Armenia;
  about 230,000 ethnic Armenians were driven from their homes in
  Azerbaijan into Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh; Azerbaijan seeks
  transit route through Armenia to connect to Naxcivan exclave; border
  with Turkey remains closed over Nagorno-Karabakh dispute; ethnic
  Armenian groups in Javakheti region of Georgia seek greater
  autonomy; Armenians continue to emigrate, primarily to Russia,
  seeking employment

Aruba
  none

Ashmore and Cartier Islands
  as the closest Australian territory to
  Indonesia, these islands became the target of human traffickers for
  the landing of illegal immigrants; in 2001, the Australian
  government removed these islands from the Australian Migration Zone
  making illegal arrivals ineligible for temporary visas and entry
  into Australia

Atlantic Ocean
  some maritime disputes (see littoral states)

Australia
  Timor-Leste and Australia agreed in 2005 to defer the
  disputed portion of the boundary for fifty years and to split
  hydrocarbon revenues evenly outside the Joint Petroleum Development
  Area covered by the 2002 Timor Sea Treaty; dispute with Timor-Leste
  hampers creation of a revised maritime boundary with Indonesia in
  the Timor Sea; regional states continue to express concern over
  Australia's 2004 declaration of a 1,000-nautical mile-wide maritime
  identification zone; Australia asserts land and maritime claims to
  Antarctica; in 2004 Australia submitted its claims to Commission on
  the Limits of the Continental Shelf (CLCS) to extend its continental
  margins covering over 3.37 million square kilometers, expanding its
  seabed roughly thirty percent more than its claimed exclusive
  economic zone; since 2003, Australia has led the Regional Assistance
  Mission to the Solomon Islands (RAMSI) to maintain civil and
  political order and reinforce regional security

Austria
  while threats of international legal action never
  materialized in 2007, 915,220 Austrians, with the support of the
  newly elected Freedom Party, signed a petition in January 2008,
  demanding that Austria block the Czech Republic's accession to the
  EU unless Prague closes its nuclear power plant in Temelin,
  bordering Austria

Azerbaijan
  Armenia supports ethnic Armenian secessionists in
  Nagorno-Karabakh and since the early 1990s has militarily occupied
  16% of Azerbaijan; over 800,000 mostly ethnic Azerbaijanis were
  driven from the occupied lands and Armenia; about 230,000 ethnic
  Armenians were driven from their homes in Azerbaijan into Armenia
  and Nagorno-Karabakh; Azerbaijan seeks transit route through Armenia
  to connect to Naxcivan exclave; Organization for Security and
  Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) continues to mediate dispute;
  Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, and Russia have ratified Caspian seabed
  delimitation treaties based on equidistance, while Iran continues to
  insist on an even one-fifth allocation and challenges Azerbaijan's
  hydrocarbon exploration in disputed waters; bilateral talks continue
  with Turkmenistan on dividing the seabed and contested oilfields in
  the middle of the Caspian; Azerbaijan and Georgia continue to
  discuss the alignment of their boundary at certain crossing areas

Bahamas, The
  disagrees with the US on the alignment the northern
  axis of a potential maritime boundary; continues to monitor and
  interdict drug dealers and Haitian and Cuban refugees in Bahamian
  waters

Bahrain
  none

Bangladesh
  discussions with India remain stalled to delimit a small
  section of river boundary, exchange territory for 51 small
  Bangladeshi exclaves in India and 111 small Indian exclaves in
  Bangladesh, allocate divided villages, and stop illegal cross-border
  trade, migration, violence, and transit of terrorists through the
  porous border; Bangladesh protests India's fencing and walling off
  high-traffic sections of the porous boundary; a joint
  Bangladesh-India boundary commission resurveyed and reconstructed 92
  missing pillars in 2007; dispute with India over New Moore/South
  Talpatty/Purbasha Island in the Bay of Bengal deters maritime
  boundary delimitation; after 21 years, Bangladesh resumes talks with
  Burma on delimiting a maritime boundary

Barbados
  Barbados and Trinidad and Tobago abide by the April 2006
  Permanent Court of Arbitration decision delimiting a maritime
  boundary and limiting catches of flying fish in Trinidad and
  Tobago's exclusive economic zone; joins other Caribbean states to
  counter Venezuela's claim that Aves Island sustains human
  habitation, a criterion under the UN Convention on the Law of the
  Sea (UNCLOS), which permits Venezuela to extend its EEZ/continental
  shelf over a large portion of the eastern Caribbean Sea

Belarus
  Boundary demarcated with Latvia and Lithuania in 2006; 1997
  boundary delimitation treaty with Ukraine remains unratified over
  unresolved financial claims, preventing demarcation and diminishing
  border security

Belgium
  none

Belize
  OAS-initiated Agreement on the Framework for Negotiations and
  Confidence Building Measures saw cooperation in repatriation of
  Guatemalan squatters and other areas, but Guatemalan land and
  maritime claims in Belize and the Caribbean Sea remain unresolved;
  the Line of Adjacency created under the 2002 Differendum serves in
  lieu of the contiguous international boundary to control squatting
  in the sparsely inhabited rain forests of Belize's border region;
  Honduras claims Belizean-administered Sapodilla Cays in its
  constitution but agreed to a joint ecological park under the
  Differendum

Benin
  in September 2007, Economic Community of West African States
  (ECOWAS) intervened to attempt to resolve the dispute over two
  villages along the Benin-Burkina Faso border that remain from 2005
  ICJ decision; much of Benin-Niger boundary, including tripoint with
  Nigeria, remains undemarcated; in 2005, Nigeria ceded thirteen
  villages to Benin, but border relations remain strained by rival
  cross-border gang clashes; talks continue between Benin and Togo on
  funding the Adjrala hydroelectric dam on the Mona River

Bermuda
  none

Bhutan
  Bhutan cooperates with India to expel Indian Nagaland
  separatists; lacking any treaty describing the boundary, Bhutan and
  China continue negotiations to establish a common boundary alignment
  to resolve territorial disputes arising from substantial
  cartographic discrepancies, the largest of which lie in Bhutan's
  northwest and along the Chumbi salient

Bolivia
  Chile and Peru rebuff Bolivia's reactivated claim to restore
  the Atacama corridor, ceded to Chile in 1884, but Chile offers
  instead unrestricted but not sovereign maritime access through Chile
  for Bolivian natural gas and other commodities; an accord placed the
  long-disputed Isla Suárez/Ilha de Guajará-Mirim, a fluvial island on
  the Río Mamoré, under Bolivian administration in 1958, but
  sovereignty remains in dispute

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  sections along the Drina River remain in
  dispute between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia; discussions
  continue with Croatia on several small disputed sections of the
  boundary related to maritime access that hinder final ratification
  of the 1999 border agreement

Botswana
  Botswana still struggles to seal its border from thousands
  of Zimbabweans who flee economic collapse and political persecution;
  Namibia has long supported, and in 2004 Zimbabwe dropped objections
  to, plans between Botswana and Zambia to build a bridge over the
  Zambezi River at Kazungula crossing, thereby de facto recognizing
  the short, but not clearly delimited, Botswana-Zambia boundary

Bouvet Island
  none

Brazil
  unruly region at convergence of Argentina-Brazil-Paraguay
  borders is locus of money laundering, smuggling, arms and illegal
  narcotics trafficking, and fundraising for extremist organizations;
  uncontested boundary dispute with Uruguay over Isla Brasilera at the
  confluence of the Quarai/Cuareim and Invernada rivers, that form a
  tripoint with Argentina; the Itaipú Dam reservoir covers over a once
  contested section of Brazil-Paraguay boundary west of Guaira Falls
  on the Rio Parana; an accord placed the long-disputed Isla
  Suárez/Ilha de Guajará-Mirim, a fluvial island on the Río Mamoré,
  under Bolivian administration in 1958, but sovereignty remains in
  dispute

British Indian Ocean Territory
  Mauritius claims the Chagos
  Archipelago including Diego Garcia; in 2001, the former inhabitants
  of the Chagos Archipelago, evicted in 1967 and 1973 and now residing
  chiefly in Mauritius, were granted UK citizenship and the right to
  repatriation; in May 2007, the UK Court of Appeals upheld the May
  2006 High Court of London judgment reversing the UK government's
  2004 Orders of Council that banned habitation on the islands; a
  small group of Chagossians visited Diego Garcia in April 2006;
  repatriation is complicated by the exclusive US military lease of
  Diego Garcia that restricts access to the largest viable island in
  the chain

British Virgin Islands
  none

Brunei
  Brunei and Malaysia agreed in September 2008 to resolve their
  offshore and deepwater seabed dispute, resume hydrocarbon
  exploration, and renounce any territorial claims on land; Brunei
  established an exclusive economic fishing zone encompassing Louisa
  Reef in the southern Spratly Islands in 1984, but makes no public
  territorial claim to the offshore reefs; the 2002 "Declaration on
  the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea" has eased tensions in
  the Spratly Islands but falls short of a legally binding "code of
  conduct" desired by several of the disputants

Bulgaria
  none

Burkina Faso
  in September 2007, Economic Community of West African
  States (ECOWAS) intervened to attempt to resolve the dispute over
  two villages along the Benin-Burkina Faso border that remain from
  2005 ICJ decision; in recent years citizens and rogue security
  forces rob and harass local populations on both sides of the
  poorly-defined Burkina Faso-Niger border; despite the presence of
  over 9,000 UN forces (UNOCI) in Cote d'Ivoire since 2004, ethnic
  conflict continues to spread into neighboring states who can no
  longer send their migrant workers to work in Ivorian cocoa
  plantations

Burma
  over half of Burma's population consists of diverse ethnic
  groups who have substantial numbers of kin in neighboring countries;
  Thailand must deal with Karen and other ethnic refugees, asylum
  seekers, and rebels, as well as illegal cross-border activities from
  Burma; Thailand is studying the feasibility of jointly constructing
  the Hatgyi Dam on the Salween River near the border with Burma;
  citing environmental, cultural, and social concerns, China is
  reconsidering construction of 13 dams on the Salween River but
  energy-starved Burma with backing from Thailand remains intent on
  building five hydro-electric dams downstream, despite identical
  regional and international protests; India seeks cooperation from
  Burma to keep Indian Nagaland separatists, such as the United
  Liberation Front of Assam, from hiding in remote Burmese Uplands;
  after 21 years, Bangladesh resumes talks with Burma on delimiting a
  maritime boundary in January 2008

Burundi
  Burundi and Rwanda dispute sections of border on the
  Akanyaru/Kanyaru and the Kagera/Nyabarongo rivers, which have
  changed course since the 1960s, when the boundary was delimited;
  cross-border conflicts among Tutsi, Hutu, other ethnic groups,
  associated political rebels, armed gangs, and various government
  forces persist in the Great Lakes region

Cambodia
  Cambodia and Thailand dispute sections of boundary with
  missing boundary markers and claims of Thai encroachments into
  Cambodian territory; maritime boundary with Vietnam is hampered by
  unresolved dispute over sovereignty of offshore islands; Thailand
  accuses Cambodia of obstructing inclusion of Thai areas near Preah
  Vihear temple ruins, awarded to Cambodia by ICJ decision in 1962, as
  part of a planned UN World Heritage site

Cameroon
  Joint Border Commission with Nigeria reviewed 2002 ICJ
  ruling on the entire boundary and bilaterally resolved differences,
  including June 2006 Greentree Agreement that immediately ceded
  sovereignty of the Bakassi Peninsula to Cameroon with a full
  phase-out of Nigerian control and patriation of residents in 2008;
  Cameroon and Nigeria agree on maritime delimitation in March 2008;
  sovereignty dispute between Equatorial Guinea and Cameroon over an
  island at the mouth of the Ntem River; only Nigeria and Cameroon
  have heeded the Lake Chad Commission's admonition to ratify the
  delimitation treaty, which also includes the Chad-Niger and
  Niger-Nigeria boundaries

Canada
  managed maritime boundary disputes with the US at Dixon
  Entrance, Beaufort Sea, Strait of Juan de Fuca, and the Gulf of
  Maine including the disputed Machias Seal Island and North Rock;
  Canada, the US, and other countries dispute the status of the
  Northwest Passage; US works closely with Canada to intensify
  security measures for monitoring and controlling legal and illegal
  movement of people, transport, and commodities across the
  international border; sovereignty dispute with Denmark over Hans
  Island in the Kennedy Channel between Ellesmere Island and
  Greenland; commencing the collection of technical evidence for
  submission to the Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf
  in support of claims for continental shelf beyond 200 nautical miles
  from its declared baselines in the Arctic, as stipulated in Article
  76, paragraph 8, of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the
  Sea

Cape Verde
  none

Cayman Islands
  none

Central African Republic
  periodic skirmishes over water and grazing
  rights among related pastoral populations along the border with
  southern Sudan persist

Chad
  since 2003, Janjawid armed militia and the Sudanese military
  have driven hundreds of thousands of Darfur residents into Chad;
  Chad remains an important mediator in the Sudanese civil conflict,
  reducing tensions with Sudan arising from cross-border banditry;
  Chadian Aozou rebels reside in southern Libya; only Nigeria and
  Cameroon have heeded the Lake Chad Commission's admonition to ratify
  the delimitation treaty, which also includes the Chad-Niger and
  Niger-Nigeria boundaries

Chile
  Chile and Peru rebuff Bolivia's reinvigorated claim to restore
  the Atacama corridor, ceded to Chile in 1884, but Chile has offered
  instead unrestricted but not sovereign maritime access through Chile
  to Bolivian gas and other commodities; Chile rejects Peru's
  unilateral legislation to change its latitudinal maritime boundary
  with Chile to an equidistance line with a southwestern axis favoring
  Peru, in October 2007, Peru took its maritime complaint with Chile
  to the ICJ; territorial claim in Antarctica (Chilean Antarctic
  Territory) partially overlaps Argentine and British claims; the
  joint boundary commission, established by Chile and Argentina in
  2001, has yet to map and demarcate the delimited boundary in the
  inhospitable Andean Southern Ice Field (Campo de Hielo Sur)

China
  continuing talks and confidence-building measures work toward
  reducing tensions over Kashmir that nonetheless remains militarized
  with portions under the de facto administration of China (Aksai
  Chin), India (Jammu and Kashmir), and Pakistan (Azad Kashmir and
  Northern Areas); India does not recognize Pakistan's ceding historic
  Kashmir lands to China in 1964; China and India continue their
  security and foreign policy dialogue started in 2005 related to the
  dispute over most of their rugged, militarized boundary, regional
  nuclear proliferation, and other matters; China claims most of
  India's Arunachal Pradesh to the base of the Himalayas; lacking any
  treaty describing the boundary, Bhutan and China continue
  negotiations to establish a common boundary alignment to resolve
  territorial disputes due to cartographic discrepancies; Chinese maps
  show an international boundary symbol off the coasts of the littoral
  states of the South China Seas, where China has interrupted
  Vietnamese hydrocarbon exploration; China asserts sovereignty over
  the Spratly Islands together with Malaysia, Philippines, Taiwan,
  Vietnam, and possibly Brunei; the 2002 "Declaration on the Conduct
  of Parties in the South China Sea" eased tensions in the Spratly's
  but is not the legally binding "code of conduct" sought by some
  parties; Vietnam and China continue to expand construction of
  facilities in the Spratly's and in March 2005, the national oil
  companies of China, the Philippines, and Vietnam signed a joint
  accord on marine seismic activities in the Spratly Islands; China
  occupies some of the Paracel Islands also claimed by Vietnam and
  Taiwan; China and Taiwan continue to reject both Japan's claims to
  the uninhabited islands of Senkaku-shoto (Diaoyu Tai) and Japan's
  unilaterally declared equidistance line in the East China Sea, the
  site of intensive hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation; certain
  islands in the Yalu and Tumen rivers are in dispute with North
  Korea; North Korea and China seek to stem illegal migration to China
  by North Koreans, fleeing privations and oppression, by building a
  fence along portions of the border and imprisoning North Koreans
  deported by China; China and Russia have demarcated the once
  disputed islands at the Amur and Ussuri confluence and in the Argun
  River in accordance with their 2004 Agreement; China and Tajikistan
  have begun demarcating the revised boundary agreed to in the
  delimitation of 2002; the decade-long demarcation of the
  China-Vietnam land boundary is expected to be completed by the end
  of 2008, while the maritime boundary delimitation and fisheries
  agreements in the Gulf of Tonkin, ratified in June 2004, have been
  implemented; citing environmental, cultural, and social concerns,
  China has reconsidered construction of 13 dams on the Salween River,
  but energy-starved Burma, with backing from Thailand, remains intent
  on building five hydro-electric dams downstream despite regional and
  international protests; Chinese and Hong Kong authorities met in
  March 2008 to resolve ownership and use of lands recovered in
  Shenzhen River channelization, including 96-hectare Lok Ma Chau
  Loop; Hong Kong developing plans to reduce 2,000 out of 2,800
  hectares of its restricted Closed Area by 2010

Christmas Island
  none

Clipperton Island
  none

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  none

Colombia
  in December 2007, ICJ allocates San Andres, Providencia,
  and Santa Catalina islands to Colombia under 1928 Treaty but does
  not rule on 82°W meridian as maritime boundary with Nicaragua;
  managed dispute with Venezuela over maritime boundary and
  Venezuelan-administered Los Monjes Islands near the Gulf of
  Venezuela; Colombian-organized illegal narcotics, guerrilla, and
  paramilitary activities penetrate all neighboring borders and have
  caused Colombian citizens to flee mostly into neighboring countries;
  Colombia, Honduras, Nicaragua, Jamaica, and the US assert various
  claims to Bajo Nuevo and Serranilla Bank

Comoros
  claims French-administered Mayotte and challenges France's
  and Madagascar's claims to Banc du Geyser, a drying reef in the
  Mozambique Channel; in May 2008, African Union forces are called in
  to assist the Comoros military recapture Anjouan Island from rebels
  who seized it in 2001

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  heads of the Great Lakes states
  and UN pledged in 2004 to abate tribal, rebel, and militia fighting
  in the region, including northeast Congo, where the UN Organization
  Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC), organized
  in 1999, maintains over 16,500 uniformed peacekeepers; members of
  Uganda's Lords Resistance Army forces continue to seek refuge in
  Congo's Garamba National Park as peace talks with the Uganda
  government evolve; the location of the boundary in the broad Congo
  River with the Republic of the Congo is indefinite except in the
  Pool Malebo/Stanley Pool area; Uganda and DROC dispute Rukwanzi
  island in Lake Albert and other areas on the Semliki River with
  hydrocarbon potential; boundary commission continues discussions
  over Congolese-administered triangle of land on the right bank of
  the Lunkinda river claimed by Zambia near the DROC village of Pweto

Congo, Republic of the
  the location of the boundary in the broad
  Congo River with the Democratic Republic of the Congo is indefinite
  except in the Pool Malebo/Stanley Pool area

Cook Islands
  none

Coral Sea Islands
  none

Costa Rica
  the ICJ has given Costa Rica until January 2008 to reply
  and Nicaragua until July 2008 to rejoin before rendering its
  decision on the navigation, security, and commercial rights of Costa
  Rican vessels on the Río San Juan over which Nicaragua retains
  sovereignty

Cote d'Ivoire
  despite the presence of over 9,000 UN forces (UNOCI)
  in Cote d'Ivoire since 2004, ethnic conflict still leaves displaced
  hundreds of thousands of Ivorians in and out of the country as well
  as driven out migrants from neighboring states who worked in Ivorian
  cocoa plantations; the March 2007 peace deal between Ivorian rebels
  and the government brought significant numbers of rebels out of
  hiding in neighboring states

Croatia
  dispute remains with Bosnia and Herzegovina over several
  small disputed sections of the boundary related to maritime access
  that hinders ratification of the 1999 border agreement; the
  Croatia-Slovenia land and maritime boundary agreement, which would
  have ceded most of Pirin Bay and maritime access to Slovenia and
  several villages to Croatia, remains un-ratified and in dispute;
  Slovenia also protests Croatia's 2003 claim to an exclusive economic
  zone in the Adriatic; as a European Union peripheral state, Slovenia
  imposed a hard border Schengen regime with non-member Croatia in
  December 2007

Cuba
  US Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay is leased to US and only mutual
  agreement or US abandonment of the facility can terminate the lease

Cyprus
  hostilities in 1974 divided the island into two de facto
  autonomous entities, the internationally recognized Cypriot
  Government and a Turkish-Cypriot community (north Cyprus); the
  1,000-strong UN Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus (UNFICYP) has served in
  Cyprus since 1964 and maintains the buffer zone between north and
  south; on 1 May 2004, Cyprus entered the European Union still
  divided, with the EU's body of legislation and standards (acquis
  communitaire) suspended in the north; Turkey protests Cypriot
  Government creating hydrocarbon blocks and maritime boundary with
  Lebanon in March 2007

Czech Republic
  while threats of international legal action never
  materialized in 2007, 915,220 Austrians, with the support of the
  popular Freedom Party, signed a petition in January 2008, demanding
  that Austria block the Czech Republic's accession to the EU unless
  Prague closes its controversial Soviet-style nuclear plant in
  Temelin, bordering Austria

Denmark
  Iceland, the UK, and Ireland dispute Denmark's claim that
  the Faroe Islands' continental shelf extends beyond 200 nm; Faroese
  continue to study proposals for full independence; sovereignty
  dispute with Canada over Hans Island in the Kennedy Channel between
  Ellesmere Island and Greenland

Djibouti
  Djibouti maintains economic ties and border accords with
  "Somaliland" leadership while maintaining some political ties to
  various factions in Somalia; Kuwait is chief investor in the 2008
  restoration and upgrade of the Ethiopian-Djibouti rail link

Dominica
  Dominica is the only Caribbean state to challenge
  Venezuela's sovereignty claim over Aves Island and joins the other
  island nations in challenging whether the feature sustains human
  habitation, a criterion under the UN Convention on the Law of the
  Sea (UNCLOS), which permits Venezuela to extend its Exclusive
  Economic Zone (EEZ) and continental shelf claims over a large
  portion of the eastern Caribbean Sea

Dominican Republic
  Haitian migrants cross the porous border into the
  Dominican Republic to find work; illegal migrants from the Dominican
  Republic cross the Mona Passage each year to Puerto Rico to find
  better work

Ecuador
  organized illegal narcotics operations in Colombia penetrate
  across Ecuador's shared border, which thousands of Colombians also
  cross to escape the violence in their home country

Egypt
  while Sudan retains claim to the Hala'ib Triangle north of the
  1899 Treaty boundary along the 22nd Parallel, both states withdrew
  their military presence in the 1990s and Egypt has invested in and
  effectively administers the area; Egypt no longer shows its
  administration of the Bir Tawil trapezoid in Sudan on its maps;
  Gazan breaches in the security wall with Egypt in January 2008
  highlight difficulties in monitoring the Sinai border

El Salvador
  International Court of Justice (ICJ) ruled on the
  delimitation of "bolsones" (disputed areas) along the El
  Salvador-Honduras boundary, in 1992, with final agreement by the
  parties in 2006 after an Organization of American States (OAS)
  survey and a further ICJ ruling in 2003; the 1992 ICJ ruling advised
  a tripartite resolution to a maritime boundary in the Gulf of
  Fonseca advocating Honduran access to the Pacific; El Salvador
  continues to claim tiny Conejo Island, not identified in the ICJ
  decision, off Honduras in the Gulf of Fonseca

Equatorial Guinea
  in 2002, ICJ ruled on an equidistance settlement
  of Cameroon-Equatorial Guinea-Nigeria maritime boundary in the Gulf
  of Guinea, but a dispute between Equatorial Guinea and Cameroon over
  an island at the mouth of the Ntem River and imprecisely defined
  maritime coordinates in the ICJ decision delay final delimitation;
  UN urges Equatorial Guinea and Gabon to resolve the sovereignty
  dispute over Gabon-occupied Mbane and lesser islands and to create a
  maritime boundary in the hydrocarbon-rich Corisco Bay

Eritrea
  Eritrea and Ethiopia agreed to abide by 2002
  Ethiopia-Eritrea Boundary Commission's (EEBC) delimitation decision
  but, neither party responded to the revised line detailed in the
  November 2006 EEBC Demarcation Statement; UN Peacekeeping Mission to
  Ethiopia and Eritrea (UNMEE), which has monitored the 25-km-wide
  Temporary Security Zone in Eritrea since 2000, is extended for six
  months in 2007 despite Eritrean restrictions on its operations and
  reduced force of 17,000; Sudan accuses Eritrea of supporting eastern
  Sudanese rebel groups

Estonia
  Russia recalled its signature to the 1996 technical border
  agreement with Estonia in 2005, rather than concede to Estonia's
  appending prepared a unilateral declaration referencing Soviet
  occupation and territorial losses; Russia demands better
  accommodation of Russian-speaking population in Estonia; Estonian
  citizen groups continue to press for realignment of the boundary
  based on the 1920 Tartu Peace Treaty that would bring the now
  divided ethnic Setu people and parts of the Narva region within
  Estonia; as a member state that forms part of the EU's external
  border, Estonia must implement the strict Schengen border rules with
  Russia

Ethiopia
  Eritrea and Ethiopia agreed to abide by the 2002
  Eritrea-Ethiopia Boundary Commission's (EEBC) delimitation decision,
  but neither party responded to the revised line detailed in the
  November 2006 EEBC Demarcation Statement; UN Peacekeeping Mission to
  Ethiopia and Eritrea (UNMEE), which has monitored the 25-km-wide
  Temporary Security Zone in Eritrea since 2000, is extended for six
  months in 2007 despite Eritrean restrictions on its operations and
  reduced force of 17,000; the undemarcated former British
  administrative line has little meaning as a political separation to
  rival clans within Ethiopia's Ogaden and southern Somalia's Oromo
  region; Ethiopian forces invaded southern Somalia and routed
  Islamist Courts from Mogadishu in January 2007; "Somaliland"
  secessionists provide port facilities in Berbera and trade ties to
  landlocked Ethiopia; civil unrest in eastern Sudan has hampered
  efforts to demarcate the porous boundary with Ethiopia

European Union
  as a political union, the EU has no border disputes
  with neighboring countries, but Estonia has no land boundary
  agreements with Russia, Slovenia disputes its land and maritime
  boundaries with Croatia, and Spain has territorial and maritime
  disputes with Morocco and with the UK over Gibraltar; the EU has set
  up a Schengen area - consisting of 22 EU member states that have
  signed the convention implementing the Schengen agreements or
  "acquis" (1985 and 1990) on the free movement of persons and the
  harmonization of border controls in Europe; these agreements became
  incorporated into EU law with the implementation of the 1997 Treaty
  of Amsterdam on 1 May 1999; in addition, non-EU states Iceland and
  Norway (as part of the Nordic Union) have been included in the
  Schengen area since 1996 (full members in 2001), and Switzerland
  since 2008 bringing the total current membership to 25; the UK
  (since 2000) and Ireland (since 2002) take part in only some aspects
  of the Schengen area, especially with respect to police and criminal
  matters; nine of the 12 new member states that joined the EU since
  2004 joined Schengen on 21 December 2007; of the three remaining EU
  states, Cyprus is expected to join by 2009, while Romania and
  Bulgaria continue to enhance their border security systems

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  Argentina, which claims the
  islands in its constitution and briefly occupied them by force in
  1982, agreed in 1995 to no longer seek settlement by force; UK
  continues to reject Argentine requests for sovereignty talks

Faroe Islands
  because anticipated offshore hydrocarbon resources
  have not been realized, earlier Faroese proposals for full
  independence have been deferred; Iceland, the UK, and Ireland
  dispute Denmark's claim that the Faroe Islands' continental shelf
  extends beyond 200 nm

Fiji
  none

Finland
  various groups in Finland advocate restoration of Karelia
  and other areas ceded to the Soviet Union, but the Finnish
  Government asserts no territorial demands

France
  Madagascar claims the French territories of Bassas da India,
  Europa Island, Glorioso Islands, and Juan de Nova Island; Comoros
  claims Mayotte; Mauritius claims Tromelin Island; territorial
  dispute between Suriname and the French overseas department of
  French Guiana; France asserts a territorial claim in Antarctica
  (Adelie Land); France and Vanuatu claim Matthew and Hunter Islands,
  east of New Caledonia

French Polynesia
  none

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  French claim to "Adelie Land" in
  Antarctica is not recognized by the US
  Bassas da India, Europa Island, Glorioso Islands, Juan de Nova
  Island (Iles Eparses): claimed by Madagascar
  Tromelin Island (Iles Eparses): claimed by Mauritius

Gabon
  UN urges Equatorial Guinea and Gabon to resolve the
  sovereignty dispute over Gabon-occupied Mbane Island and lesser
  islands and to establish a maritime boundary in hydrocarbon-rich
  Corisco Bay

Gambia, The
  attempts to stem refugees, cross-border raids, arms
  smuggling, and other illegal activities by separatists from southern
  Senegal's Casamance region, as well as from conflicts in other west
  African states

Gaza Strip
  West Bank and Gaza Strip are Israeli-occupied with
  current status subject to the Israeli-Palestinian Interim Agreement
  - permanent status to be determined through further negotiation;
  Israel removed settlers and military personnel from the Gaza Strip
  in August 2005

Georgia
  Russia and Georgia agree on delimiting 80% of their common
  border, leaving certain small, strategic segments and the maritime
  boundary unresolved; OSCE observers monitor volatile areas such as
  the Pankisi Gorge in the Akhmeti region and the Argun Gorge in
  Abkhazia; UN Observer Mission in Georgia has maintained a
  peacekeeping force in Georgia since 1993; Meshkheti Turks scattered
  throughout the former Soviet Union seek to return to Georgia;
  boundary with Armenia remains undemarcated; ethnic Armenian groups
  in Javakheti region of Georgia seek greater autonomy from the
  Georgian government; Azerbaijan and Georgia continue to discuss the
  alignment of their boundary at certain crossing areas

Germany
  none

Ghana
  Ghana struggles to accommodate returning nationals who worked
  in the cocoa plantations and escaped fighting in Cote d'Ivoire

Gibraltar
  in 2002, Gibraltar residents voted overwhelmingly by
  referendum to reject any "shared sovereignty" arrangement; the
  government of Gibraltar insists on equal participation in talks
  between the UK and Spain; Spain disapproves of UK plans to grant
  Gibraltar even greater autonomy

Greece
  Greece and Turkey continue discussions to resolve their
  complex maritime, air, territorial, and boundary disputes in the
  Aegean Sea; Cyprus question with Turkey; Greece rejects the use of
  the name Macedonia or Republic of Macedonia; the mass migration of
  unemployed Albanians still remains a problem for developed
  countries, chiefly Greece and Italy

Greenland
  managed dispute between Canada and Denmark over Hans
  Island in the Kennedy Channel between Canada's Ellesmere Island and
  Greenland

Grenada
  none

Guam
  none

Guatemala
  annual ministerial meetings under the OAS-initiated
  Agreement on the Framework for Negotiations and Confidence Building
  Measures continue to address Guatemalan land and maritime claims in
  Belize and the Caribbean Sea; the Line of Adjacency created under
  the 2002 Differendum serves in lieu of the contiguous international
  boundary to control squatting in the sparsely inhabited rain forests
  of Belize's border region; Mexico must deal with thousands of
  impoverished Guatemalans and other Central Americans who cross the
  porous border looking for work in Mexico and the United States

Guernsey
  none

Guinea
  conflicts among rebel groups, warlords, and youth gangs in
  neighboring states have spilled over into Guinea, resulting in
  domestic instability; Sierra Leone considers Guinea's definition of
  the flood plain limits to define the left bank boundary of the
  Makona and Moa rivers excessive and protests Guinea's continued
  occupation of these lands, including the hamlet of Yenga, occupied
  since 1998

Guinea-Bissau
  in 2006, political instability within Senegal's
  Casamance region resulted in thousands of Senegalese refugees,
  cross-border raids, and arms smuggling into Guinea-Bissau

Guyana
  all of the area west of the Essequibo River is claimed by
  Venezuela preventing any discussion of a maritime boundary; Guyana
  has expressed its intention to join Barbados in asserting claims
  before UNCLOS that Trinidad and Tobago's maritime boundary with
  Venezuela extends into their waters; Suriname claims a triangle of
  land between the New and Kutari/Koetari rivers in a historic dispute
  over the headwaters of the Courantyne; Guyana seeks arbitration
  under provisions of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS)
  to resolve the long-standing dispute with Suriname over the axis of
  the territorial sea boundary in potentially oil-rich waters

Haiti
  since 2004, about 8,000 peacekeepers from the UN Stabilization
  Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH) maintain civil order in Haiti; despite
  efforts to control illegal migration, Haitians cross into the
  Dominican Republic and sail to neighboring countries; Haiti claims
  US-administered Navassa Island

Heard Island and McDonald Islands
  none

Holy See (Vatican City)
  none

Honduras
  International Court of Justice (ICJ) ruled on the
  delimitation of "bolsones" (disputed areas) along the El
  Salvador-Honduras border in 1992 with final settlement by the
  parties in 2006 after an Organization of American States (OAS)
  survey and a further ICJ ruling in 2003; the 1992 ICJ ruling advised
  a tripartite resolution to a maritime boundary in the Gulf of
  Fonseca with consideration of Honduran access to the Pacific; El
  Salvador continues to claim tiny Conejo Island, not mentioned in the
  ICJ ruling, off Honduras in the Gulf of Fonseca; Honduras claims the
  Belizean-administered Sapodilla Cays off the coast of Belize in its
  constitution, but agreed to a joint ecological park around the cays
  should Guatemala consent to a maritime corridor in the Caribbean
  under the OAS-sponsored 2002 Belize-Guatemala Differendum; memorials
  and countermemorials were filed by the parties in Nicaragua's 1999
  and 2001 proceedings against Honduras and Colombia at the ICJ over
  the maritime boundary and territorial claims in the western
  Caribbean Sea - final public hearings are scheduled for 2007

Hong Kong
  none

Hungary
  bilateral government, legal, technical and economic working
  group negotiations continue in 2006 with Slovakia over Hungary's
  failure to complete its portion of the Gabcikovo-Nagymaros
  hydroelectric dam project along the Danube; as a member state that
  forms part of the EU's external border, Hungary has implemented the
  strict Schengen border rules

Iceland
  Iceland, the UK, and Ireland dispute Denmark's claim that
  the Faroe Islands' continental shelf extends beyond 200 nm

India
  since China and India launched a security and foreign policy
  dialogue in 2005, consolidated discussions related to the dispute
  over most of their rugged, militarized boundary, regional nuclear
  proliferation, Indian claims that China transferred missiles to
  Pakistan, and other matters continue; various talks and
  confidence-building measures have cautiously begun to defuse
  tensions over Kashmir, particularly since the October 2005
  earthquake in the region; Kashmir nevertheless remains the site of
  the world's largest and most militarized territorial dispute with
  portions under the de facto administration of China (Aksai Chin),
  India (Jammu and Kashmir), and Pakistan (Azad Kashmir and Northern
  Areas); India and Pakistan have maintained the 2004 cease fire in
  Kashmir and initiated discussions on defusing the armed stand-off in
  the Siachen glacier region; Pakistan protests India's fencing the
  highly militarized Line of Control and construction of the Baglihar
  Dam on the Chenab River in Jammu and Kashmir, which is part of the
  larger dispute on water sharing of the Indus River and its
  tributaries; UN Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan
  (UNMOGIP) has maintained a small group of peacekeepers since 1949;
  India does not recognize Pakistan's ceding historic Kashmir lands to
  China in 1964; to defuse tensions and prepare for discussions on a
  maritime boundary, India and Pakistan seek technical resolution of
  the disputed boundary in Sir Creek estuary at the mouth of the Rann
  of Kutch in the Arabian Sea; Pakistani maps continue to show its
  Junagadh claim in Indian Gujarat State; discussions with Bangladesh
  remain stalled to delimit a small section of river boundary, to
  exchange territory for 51 Bangladeshi exclaves in India and 111
  Indian exclaves in Bangladesh, to allocate divided villages, and to
  stop illegal cross-border trade, migration, violence, and transit of
  terrorists through the porous border; Bangladesh protests India's
  attempts to fence off high-traffic sections of the border; dispute
  with Bangladesh over New Moore/South Talpatty/Purbasha Island in the
  Bay of Bengal deters maritime boundary delimitation; India seeks
  cooperation from Bhutan and Burma to keep Indian Nagaland and Assam
  separatists from hiding in remote areas along the borders; Joint
  Border Committee with Nepal continues to examine contested boundary
  sections, including the 400 square kilometer dispute over the source
  of the Kalapani River; India maintains a strict border regime to
  keep out Maoist insurgents and control illegal cross-border
  activities from Nepal

Indian Ocean
  some maritime disputes (see littoral states)

Indonesia
  Indonesia has a stated foreign policy objective of
  establishing stable fixed land and maritime boundaries with all of
  its neighbors; Timor-Leste-Indonesia Boundary Committee has resolved
  all but a small portion of the land boundary, but discussions on
  maritime boundaries are stalemated over sovereignty of the
  uninhabited coral island of Pulau Batek/Fatu Sinai in the north and
  alignment with Australian claims in the south; many refugees from
  Timor-Leste who left in 2003 still reside in Indonesia and refuse
  repatriation; a 1997 treaty between Indonesia and Australia settled
  some parts of their maritime boundary but outstanding issues remain;
  ICJ's award of Sipadan and Ligitan islands to Malaysia in 2002 left
  the sovereignty of Unarang rock and the maritime boundary in the
  Ambalat oil block in the Celebes Sea in dispute; the ICJ decision
  has prompted Indonesia to assert claims to and to establish a
  presence on its smaller outer islands; Indonesia and Singapore
  continue to work on finalization of their 1973 maritime boundary
  agreement by defining unresolved areas north of Indonesia's Batam
  Island; Indonesian secessionists, squatters, and illegal migrants
  create repatriation problems for Papua New Guinea; piracy remains a
  problem in the Malacca Strait; maritime delimitation talks continue
  with Palau; Indonesian groups challenge Australia's claim to Ashmore
  Reef; Australia has closed parts of the Ashmore and Cartier Reserve
  to Indonesian traditional fishing and placed restrictions on certain
  catches

Iran
  Iran protests Afghanistan's limiting flow of dammed tributaries
  to the Helmand River in periods of drought; Iraq's lack of a
  maritime boundary with Iran prompts jurisdiction disputes beyond the
  mouth of the Shatt al Arab in the Persian Gulf; Iran and UAE dispute
  Tunb Islands and Abu Musa Island, which are occupied by Iran; Iran
  stands alone among littoral states in insisting upon a division of
  the Caspian Sea into five equal sectors

Iraq
  coalition forces assist Iraqis in monitoring internal and
  cross-border security; approximately two million Iraqis have fled
  the conflict in Iraq, with the majority taking refuge in Syria and
  Jordan, and lesser numbers to Egypt, Lebanon, Iran, and Turkey;
  Iraq's lack of a maritime boundary with Iran prompts jurisdiction
  disputes beyond the mouth of the Shatt al Arab in the Persian Gulf;
  Turkey has expressed concern over the autonomous status of Kurds in
  Iraq

Ireland
  Ireland, Iceland, and the UK dispute Denmark's claim that
  the Faroe Islands' continental shelf extends beyond 200 nm

Isle of Man
  none

Israel
  West Bank and Gaza Strip are Israeli-occupied with current
  status subject to the Israeli-Palestinian Interim Agreement -
  permanent status to be determined through further negotiation;
  Israel continues construction of a "seam line" separation barrier
  along parts of the Green Line and within the West Bank; Israel
  withdrew its settlers and military from the Gaza Strip and from four
  settlements in the West Bank in August 2005; Golan Heights is
  Israeli-occupied (Lebanon claims the Shab'a Farms area of Golan
  Heights); since 1948, about 350 peacekeepers from the UN Truce
  Supervision Organization (UNTSO) headquartered in Jerusalem monitor
  ceasefires, supervise armistice agreements, prevent isolated
  incidents from escalating, and assist other UN personnel in the
  region

Italy
  Italy's long coastline and developed economy entices tens of
  thousands of illegal immigrants from southeastern Europe and
  northern Africa

Jamaica
  none

Jan Mayen
  none

Japan
  the sovereignty dispute over the islands of Etorofu,
  Kunashiri, and Shikotan, and the Habomai group, known in Japan as
  the "Northern Territories" and in Russia as the "Southern Kuril
  Islands," occupied by the Soviet Union in 1945, now administered by
  Russia and claimed by Japan, remains the primary sticking point to
  signing a peace treaty formally ending World War II hostilities;
  Japan and South Korea claim Liancourt Rocks (Take-shima/Tok-do)
  occupied by South Korea since 1954; China and Taiwan dispute both
  Japan's claims to the uninhabited islands of the Senkaku-shoto
  (Diaoyu Tai) and Japan's unilaterally declared exclusive economic
  zone in the East China Sea, the site of intensive hydrocarbon
  prospecting

Jersey
  none

Jordan
  approximately two million Iraqis have fled the conflict in
  Iraq, with the majority taking refuge in Syria and Jordan; 2004
  Agreement settles border dispute with Syria pending demarcation

Kazakhstan
  Kyrgyzstan has yet to ratify the 2001 boundary
  delimitation with Kazakhstan; field demarcation of the boundaries
  with Turkmenistan commenced in 2005, and with Uzbekistan in 2004;
  demarcation is scheduled to get underway with Russia in 2007;
  demarcation with China was completed in 2002; creation of a seabed
  boundary with Turkmenistan in the Caspian Sea remains under
  discussion; equidistant seabed treaties have been ratified with
  Azerbaijan and Russia in the Caspian Sea, but no resolution has been
  made on dividing the water column among any of the littoral states

Kenya
  Kenya served as an important mediator in brokering Sudan's
  north-south separation in February 2005; Kenya provides shelter to
  almost a quarter of a million refugees, including Ugandans who flee
  across the border periodically to seek protection from Lord's
  Resistance Army (LRA) rebels; Kenya works hard to prevent the clan
  and militia fighting in Somalia from spreading across the border,
  which has long been open to nomadic pastoralists; the boundary that
  separates Kenya's and Sudan's sovereignty is unclear in the "Ilemi
  Triangle," which Kenya has administered since colonial times

Kiribati
  none

Korea, North
  risking arrest, imprisonment, and deportation, tens of
  thousands of North Koreans cross into China to escape famine,
  economic privation, and political oppression; North Korea and China
  dispute the sovereignty of certain islands in Yalu and Tumen rivers;
  Military Demarcation Line within the 4-km wide Demilitarized Zone
  has separated North from South Korea since 1953; periodic incidents
  in the Yellow Sea with South Korea which claims the Northern
  Limiting Line as a maritime boundary; North Korea supports South
  Korea in rejecting Japan's claim to Liancourt Rocks
  (Tok-do/Take-shima)

Korea, South
  Military Demarcation Line within the 4-km wide
  Demilitarized Zone has separated North from South Korea since 1953;
  periodic incidents with North Korea in the Yellow Sea over the
  Northern Limiting Line, which South Korea claims as a maritime
  boundary; South Korea and Japan claim Liancourt Rocks
  (Tok-do/Take-shima), occupied by South Korea since 1954

Kosovo
  Serbia with several other states protest the US and other
  states' recognition of Kosovo's declaring itself as a sovereign and
  independent state in February 2008; ethnic Serbian municipalities
  along Kosovo's northern border challenge final status of
  Kosovo-Serbia boundary; several thousand NATO-led KFOR peacekeepers
  under UNMIK authority continue to keep the peace within Kosovo
  between the ethnic Albanian majority and the Serb minority in
  Kosovo; Kosovo and Macedonia completed demarcation of their boundary
  in September 2008

Kuwait
  Kuwait and Saudi Arabia continue negotiating a joint maritime
  boundary with Iran; no maritime boundary exists with Iraq in the
  Persian Gulf

Kyrgyzstan
  Kyrgyzstan has yet to ratify the 2001 boundary
  delimitation with Kazakhstan; disputes in Isfara Valley delay
  completion of delimitation with Tajikistan; delimitation of 130 km
  of border with Uzbekistan is hampered by serious disputes around
  enclaves and other areas

Laos
  Southeast Asian states have enhanced border surveillance to
  check the spread of avian flu; talks continue on completion of
  demarcation with Thailand but disputes remain over islands in the
  Mekong River; concern among Mekong Commission members that China's
  construction of dams on the Mekong River will affect water levels

Latvia
  Russia refuses to sign the 1997 boundary treaty due to
  Latvian insistence on a unilateral clarificatory declaration
  referencing Soviet occupation of Latvia and territorial losses;
  Russia demands better Latvian treatment of ethnic Russians in
  Latvia; as of January 2007, ground demarcation of the boundary with
  Belarus was complete and mapped with final ratification
  documentation in preparation; the Latvian parliament has not
  ratified its 1998 maritime boundary treaty with Lithuania, primarily
  due to concerns over oil exploration rights; as a member state that
  forms part of the EU's external border, Latvia has implemented the
  strict Schengen border rules with Russia

Lebanon
  lacking a treaty or other documentation describing the
  boundary, portions of the Lebanon-Syria boundary are unclear with
  several sections in dispute; since 2000, Lebanon has claimed Shab'a
  Farms area in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights; the roughly
  2,000-strong UN Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) has been in place
  since 1978

Lesotho
  none

Liberia
  although civil unrest continues to abate with the assistance
  of 18,000 UN Mission in Liberia (UNMIL) peacekeepers, as of January
  2007, Liberian refugees still remain in Guinea, Cote d'Ivoire,
  Sierra Leone, and Ghana; Liberia, in turn, shelters refugees fleeing
  turmoil in Cote d'Ivoire; despite the presence of over 9,000 UN
  forces (UNOCI) in Cote d'Ivoire since 2004, ethnic conflict
  continues to spread into neighboring states who can no longer send
  their migrant workers to Ivorian cocoa plantations; UN sanctions ban
  Liberia from exporting diamonds and timber

Libya
  Libya has claimed more than 32,000 sq km in southeastern
  Algeria and about 25,000 sq km in the Tommo region of Niger in a
  currently dormant dispute; various Chadian rebels from the Aozou
  region reside in southern Libya

Liechtenstein
  none

Lithuania
  Lithuania and Russia committed to demarcating their
  boundary in 2006 in accordance with the land and maritime treaty
  ratified by Russia in May 2003 and by Lithuania in 1999; Lithuania
  operates a simplified transit regime for Russian nationals traveling
  from the Kaliningrad coastal exclave into Russia, while still
  conforming, as a EU member state having an external border with a
  non-EU member, to strict Schengen border rules; the Latvian
  parliament has not ratified its 1998 maritime boundary treaty with
  Lithuania, primarily due to concerns over potential hydrocarbons; as
  of January 2007, ground demarcation of the boundary with Belarus was
  complete and mapped with final ratification documents in preparation

Luxembourg
  none

Macau
  none

Macedonia
  Kosovo and Macedonia completed demarcation of their
  boundary in September 2008; Greece continues to reject the use of
  the name Macedonia or Republic of Macedonia

Madagascar
  claims Bassas da India, Europa Island, Glorioso Islands,
  and Juan de Nova Island (all administered by France)

Malawi
  disputes with Tanzania over the boundary in Lake Nyasa (Lake
  Malawi) and the meandering Songwe River remain dormant

Malaysia
  Malaysia has asserted sovereignty over the Spratly Islands
  together with China, Philippines, Taiwan, Vietnam, and possibly
  Brunei; while the 2002 "Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the
  South China Sea" has eased tensions over the Spratly Islands, it is
  not the legally binding "code of conduct" sought by some parties;
  Malaysia was not party to the March 2005 joint accord among the
  national oil companies of China, the Philippines, and Vietnam on
  conducting marine seismic activities in the Spratly Islands;
  disputes continue over deliveries of fresh water to Singapore,
  Singapore's land reclamation, bridge construction, and maritime
  boundaries in the Johor and Singapore Straits; in November 2007, the
  ICJ will hold public hearings in response to the Memorials and
  Countermemorials filed by the parties in 2003 and 2005 over
  sovereignty of Pedra Branca Island/Pulau Batu Puteh, Middle Rocks
  and South Ledge; ICJ awarded Ligitan and Sipadan islands, also
  claimed by Indonesia and Philippines, to Malaysia but left maritime
  boundary and sovereignty of Unarang rock in the hydrocarbon-rich
  Celebes Sea in dispute; separatist violence in Thailand's
  predominantly Muslim southern provinces prompts measures to close
  and monitor border with Malaysia to stem terrorist activities;
  Philippines retains a dormant claim to Malaysia's Sabah State in
  northern Borneo; Brunei and Malaysia agreed in September 2008 to
  resolve their offshore and deepwater seabed dispute, resume
  hydrocarbon exploration and renounce any territorial claims on land;
  piracy remains a problem in the Malacca Strait

Maldives
  none

Mali
  none

Malta
  none

Marshall Islands
  claims US territory of Wake Island

Mauritania
  Mauritanian claims to Western Sahara remain dormant

Mauritius
  Mauritius claims the Chagos Archipelago (UK-administered
  British Indian Ocean Territory), and its former inhabitants, who
  reside chiefly in Mauritius; claims French-administered Tromelin
  Island

Mayotte
  claimed by Comoros

Mexico
  abundant rainfall in recent years along much of the Mexico-US
  border region has ameliorated periodically strained water-sharing
  arrangements; the US has intensified security measures to monitor
  and control legal and illegal personnel, transport, and commodities
  across its border with Mexico; Mexico must deal with thousands of
  impoverished Guatemalans and other Central Americans who cross the
  porous border looking for work in Mexico and the United States

Micronesia, Federated States of
  none

Moldova
  Moldova and Ukraine operate joint customs posts to monitor
  the transit of people and commodities through Moldova's break-away
  Transnistria region, which remains under OSCE supervision

Monaco
  none

Mongolia
  none

Montenegro
  none

Montserrat
  none

Morocco
  claims and administers Western Sahara whose sovereignty
  remains unresolved - UN-administered cease-fire has remained in
  effect since September 1991, but attempts to hold a referendum have
  failed and parties thus far have rejected all brokered proposals;
  Morocco protests Spain's control over the coastal enclaves of Ceuta,
  Melilla, and Penon de Velez de la Gomera, the islands of Penon de
  Alhucemas and Islas Chafarinas, and surrounding waters; discussions
  have not progressed on a comprehensive maritime delimitation,
  setting limits on resource exploration and refugee interdiction,
  since Morocco's 2002 rejection of Spain's unilateral designation of
  a median line from the Canary Islands; Morocco serves as one of the
  primary launching areas of illegal migration into Spain from North
  Africa

Mozambique
  none

Namibia
  concerns from international experts and local populations
  over the Okavango Delta ecology in Botswana and human displacement
  scuttled Namibian plans to construct a hydroelectric dam on Popa
  Falls along the Angola-Namibia border; managed dispute with South
  Africa over the location of the boundary in the Orange River;
  Namibia has supported, and in 2004 Zimbabwe dropped objections to,
  plans between Botswana and Zambia to build a bridge over the Zambezi
  River, thereby de facto recognizing a short, but not clearly
  delimited, Botswana-Zambia boundary in the river

Nauru
  none

Navassa Island
  claimed by Haiti, source of subsistence fishing

Nepal
  joint border commission continues to work on contested
  sections of boundary with India, including the 400 square kilometer
  dispute over the source of the Kalapani River; India has instituted
  a stricter border regime to restrict transit of Maoist insurgents
  and illegal cross-border activities; approximately 106,000 Bhutanese
  Lhotshampas (Hindus) have been confined in refugee camps in
  southeastern Nepal since 1990

Netherlands
  none

Netherlands Antilles
  none

New Caledonia
  Matthew and Hunter Islands east of New Caledonia
  claimed by France and Vanuatu

New Zealand
  asserts a territorial claim in Antarctica (Ross
  Dependency)

Nicaragua
  memorials and countermemorials were filed by the parties
  in Nicaragua's 1999 and 2001 proceedings against Honduras and
  Colombia at the ICJ over the maritime boundary and territorial
  claims in the western Caribbean Sea, final public hearings are
  scheduled for 2007; the 1992 ICJ ruling for El Salvador and Honduras
  advised a tripartite resolution to establish a maritime boundary in
  the Gulf of Fonseca, which considers Honduran access to the Pacific;
  legal dispute over navigational rights of San Juan River on border
  with Costa Rica

Niger
  Libya claims about 25,000 sq km in a currently dormant dispute
  in the Tommo region; much of Benin-Niger boundary, including
  tripoint with Nigeria, remains undemarcated; only Nigeria and
  Cameroon have heeded the Lake Chad Commission's admonition to ratify
  the delimitation treaty which also includes the Chad-Niger and
  Niger-Nigeria boundaries

Nigeria
  Joint Border Commission with Cameroon reviewed 2002 ICJ
  ruling on the entire boundary and bilaterally resolved differences,
  including June 2006 Greentree Agreement that immediately cedes
  sovereignty of the Bakassi Peninsula to Cameroon with a phase-out of
  Nigerian control within two years while resolving patriation issues;
  the ICJ ruled on an equidistance settlement of Cameroon-Equatorial
  Guinea-Nigeria maritime boundary in the Gulf of Guinea, but
  imprecisely defined coordinates in the ICJ decision and a
  sovereignty dispute between Equatorial Guinea and Cameroon over an
  island at the mouth of the Ntem River all contribute to the delay in
  implementation; only Nigeria and Cameroon have heeded the Lake Chad
  Commission's admonition to ratify the delimitation treaty which also
  includes the Chad-Niger and Niger-Nigeria boundaries

Niue
  none

Norfolk Island
  none

Northern Mariana Islands
  none

Norway
  Norway asserts a territorial claim in Antarctica (Queen Maud
  Land and its continental shelf); despite dialogue, Russia and Norway
  continue to dispute their maritime limits in the Barents Sea and
  Russia's fishing rights beyond Svalbard's territorial limits within
  the Svalbard Treaty zone

Oman
  boundary agreement reportedly signed and ratified with UAE in
  2003 for entire border, including Oman's Musandam Peninsula and Al
  Madhah exclave, but details of the alignment have not been made
  public

Pacific Ocean
  some maritime disputes (see littoral states)

Pakistan
  various talks and confidence-building measures cautiously
  have begun to defuse tensions over Kashmir, particularly since the
  October 2005 earthquake in the region; Kashmir nevertheless remains
  the site of the world's largest and most militarized territorial
  dispute with portions under the de facto administration of China
  (Aksai Chin), India (Jammu and Kashmir), and Pakistan (Azad Kashmir
  and Northern Areas); UN Military Observer Group in India and
  Pakistan (UNMOGIP) has maintained a small group of peacekeepers
  since 1949; India does not recognize Pakistan's ceding historic
  Kashmir lands to China in 1964; India and Pakistan have maintained
  their 2004 cease fire in Kashmir and initiated discussions on
  defusing the armed stand-off in the Siachen glacier region; Pakistan
  protests India's fencing the highly militarized Line of Control and
  construction of the Baglihar Dam on the Chenab River in Jammu and
  Kashmir, which is part of the larger dispute on water sharing of the
  Indus River and its tributaries; to defuse tensions and prepare for
  discussions on a maritime boundary, India and Pakistan seek
  technical resolution of the disputed boundary in Sir Creek estuary
  at the mouth of the Rann of Kutch in the Arabian Sea; Pakistani maps
  continue to show the Junagadh claim in India's Gujarat State; by
  2005, Pakistan, with UN assistance, repatriated 2.3 million Afghan
  refugees leaving slightly more than a million, many of whom remain
  at their own choosing; Pakistan has proposed and Afghanistan
  protests construction of a fence and laying of mines along portions
  of their porous border; Pakistan has sent troops into remote tribal
  areas to monitor and control the border with Afghanistan and to stem
  terrorist or other illegal activities

Palau
  maritime delineation negotiations continue with Philippines,
  Indonesia

Panama
  organized illegal narcotics operations in Colombia operate
  within the remote border region with Panama

Papua New Guinea
  relies on assistance from Australia to keep out
  illegal cross-border activities from primarily Indonesia, including
  goods smuggling, illegal narcotics trafficking, and squatters and
  secessionists

Paracel Islands
  occupied by China, also claimed by Taiwan and Vietnam

Paraguay
  unruly region at convergence of Argentina-Brazil-Paraguay
  borders is locus of money laundering, smuggling, arms and illegal
  narcotics trafficking, and fundraising for extremist organizations

Peru
  Chile and Ecuador rejected Peru's November 2005 unilateral
  legislation to shift the axis of their joint treaty-defined maritime
  boundaries along the parallels of latitude to equidistance lines
  which favor Peru; organized illegal narcotics operations in Colombia
  have penetrated Peru's shared border; Peru rejects Bolivia's claim
  to restore maritime access through a sovereign corridor through
  Chile along the Peruvian border

Philippines
  Philippines claims sovereignty over certain of the
  Spratly Islands, known locally as the Kalayaan (Freedom) Islands,
  also claimed by China, Malaysia, Taiwan, and Vietnam; the 2002
  "Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea," has
  eased tensions in the Spratly Islands but falls short of a legally
  binding "code of conduct" desired by several of the disputants; in
  March 2005, the national oil companies of China, the Philippines,
  and Vietnam signed a joint accord to conduct marine seismic
  activities in the Spratly Islands; Philippines retains a dormant
  claim to Malaysia's Sabah State in northern Borneo based on the
  Sultanate of Sulu's granting the Philippines Government power of
  attorney to pursue a sovereignty claim on his behalf; maritime
  delimitation negotiations continue with Palau

Pitcairn Islands
  none

Poland
  as a member state that forms part of the EU's external
  border, Poland has implemented the strict Schengen border rules to
  restrict illegal immigration and trade along its eastern borders
  with Belarus and Ukraine

Portugal
  Portugal does not recognize Spanish sovereignty over the
  territory of Olivenza based on a difference of interpretation of the
  1815 Congress of Vienna and the 1801 Treaty of Badajoz

Puerto Rico
  increasing numbers of illegal migrants from the
  Dominican Republic cross the Mona Passage to Puerto Rico each year
  looking for work

Qatar
  none

Romania
  the ICJ gave Ukraine until December 2006 to reply, and
  Romania until June 2007 to issue a rejoinder, in their dispute
  submitted in 2004 over Ukrainian-administered Zmiyinyy/Serpilor
  (Snake) Island and Black Sea maritime boundary delimitation; Romania
  also opposes Ukraine's reopening of a navigation canal from the
  Danube border through Ukraine to the Black Sea

Russia
  China and Russia have demarcated the once disputed islands at
  the Amur and Ussuri confluence and in the Argun River in accordance
  with the 2004 Agreement, ending their centuries-long border
  disputes; the sovereignty dispute over the islands of Etorofu,
  Kunashiri, Shikotan, and the Habomai group, known in Japan as the
  "Northern Territories" and in Russia as the "Southern Kurils,"
  occupied by the Soviet Union in 1945, now administered by Russia,
  and claimed by Japan, remains the primary sticking point to signing
  a peace treaty formally ending World War II hostilities; Russia and
  Georgia agree on delimiting all but small, strategic segments of the
  land boundary and the maritime boundary; OSCE observers monitor
  volatile areas such as the Pankisi Gorge in the Akhmeti region and
  the Kodori Gorge in Abkhazia; Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, and Russia
  signed equidistance boundaries in the Caspian seabed but the
  littoral states have no consensus on dividing the water column;
  Russia and Norway dispute their maritime limits in the Barents Sea
  and Russia's fishing rights beyond Svalbard's territorial limits
  within the Svalbard Treaty zone; various groups in Finland advocate
  restoration of Karelia (Kareliya) and other areas ceded to the
  Soviet Union following the Second World War but the Finnish
  Government asserts no territorial demands; in May 2005, Russia
  recalled its signatures to the 1996 border agreements with Estonia
  (1996) and Latvia (1997), when the two Baltic states announced
  issuance of unilateral declarations referencing Soviet occupation
  and ensuing territorial losses; Russia demands better treatment of
  ethnic Russians in Estonia and Latvia; Estonian citizen groups
  continue to press for realignment of the boundary based on the 1920
  Tartu Peace Treaty that would bring the now divided ethnic Setu
  people and parts of the Narva region within Estonia; Lithuania and
  Russia committed to demarcating their boundary in 2006 in accordance
  with the land and maritime treaty ratified by Russia in May 2003 and
  by Lithuania in 1999; Lithuania operates a simplified transit regime
  for Russian nationals traveling from the Kaliningrad coastal exclave
  into Russia, while still conforming, as an EU member state with an
  EU external border, where strict Schengen border rules apply;
  preparations for the demarcation delimitation of land boundary with
  Ukraine have commenced; the dispute over the boundary between Russia
  and Ukraine through the Kerch Strait and Sea of Azov remains
  unresolved despite a December 2003 framework agreement and on-going
  expert-level discussions; Kazakhstan and Russia boundary
  delimitation was ratified on November 2005 and field demarcation
  should commence in 2007; Russian Duma has not yet ratified 1990
  Bering Sea Maritime Boundary Agreement with the US

Rwanda
  fighting among ethnic groups - loosely associated political
  rebels, armed gangs, and various government forces in Great Lakes
  region transcending the boundaries of Burundi, Democratic Republic
  of the Congo, Rwanda, and Uganda - abated substantially from a
  decade ago due largely to UN peacekeeping, international mediation,
  and efforts by local governments to create civil societies;
  nonetheless, 57,000 Rwandan refugees still reside in 21 African
  states, including Zambia, Gabon, and 20,000 who fled to Burundi in
  2005 and 2006 to escape drought and recriminations from traditional
  courts investigating the 1994 massacres; the 2005 DROC and Rwanda
  border verification mechanism to stem rebel actions on both sides of
  the border remains in place

Saint Helena
  none

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  joins other Caribbean states to counter
  Venezuela's claim that Aves Island sustains human habitation, a
  criterion under UNCLOS, which permits Venezuela to extend its
  EEZ/continental shelf over a large portion of the eastern Caribbean
  Sea

Saint Lucia
  joins other Caribbean states to counter Venezuela's
  claim that Aves Island sustains human habitation, a criterion under
  UNCLOS, which permits Venezuela to extend its EEZ/continental shelf
  over a large portion of the eastern Caribbean Sea

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  none

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  joins other Caribbean states to
  counter Venezuela's claim that Aves Island sustains human
  habitation, a criterion under UNCLOS, which permits Venezuela to
  extend its EEZ/continental shelf over a large portion of the eastern
  Caribbean Sea

Samoa
  none

San Marino
  none

Sao Tome and Principe
  none

Saudi Arabia
  Saudi Arabia has reinforced its concrete-filled
  security barrier along sections of the now fully demarcated border
  with Yemen to stem illegal cross-border activities; Kuwait and Saudi
  Arabia continue discussions on a maritime boundary with Iran

Senegal
  The Gambia and Guinea-Bissau attempt to stem separatist
  violence, cross border raids, and arms smuggling into their
  countries from Senegal's Casamance region, and in 2006, respectively
  accepted 6,000 and 10,000 Casamance residents fleeing the conflict;
  2,500 Guinea-Bissau residents fled into Senegal in 2006 to escape
  armed confrontations along the border

Serbia
  Serbia with several other states protest the U.S. and other
  states' recognition of Kosovo's declaring itself as a sovereign and
  independent state in February 2008; ethnic Serbian municipalities
  along Kosovo's northern border challenge final status of
  Kosovo-Serbia boundary; several thousand NATO-led KFOR peacekeepers
  under UNMIK authority continue to keep the peace within Kosovo
  between the ethnic Albanian majority and the Serb minority in
  Kosovo; Serbia delimited about half of the boundary with Bosnia and
  Herzegovina, but sections along the Drina River remain in dispute

Seychelles
  together with Mauritius, Seychelles claims the Chagos
  Archipelago (UK-administered British Indian Ocean Territory)

Sierra Leone
  as domestic fighting among disparate ethnic groups,
  rebel groups, warlords, and youth gangs in Cote d'Ivoire, Guinea,
  Liberia, and Sierra Leone gradually abate, the number of refugees in
  border areas has begun to slowly dwindle; UN Mission in Sierra Leone
  (UNAMSIL) has maintained over 4,000 peacekeepers in Sierra Leone
  since 1999; Sierra Leone considers excessive Guinea's definition of
  the flood plain limits to define the left bank boundary of the
  Makona and Moa rivers and protests Guinea's continued occupation of
  these lands including the hamlet of Yenga occupied since 1998

Singapore
  disputes persist with Malaysia over deliveries of fresh
  water to Singapore, Singapore's extensive land reclamation works,
  bridge construction, and maritime boundaries in the Johor and
  Singapore Straits; in November 2007, the ICJ will hold public
  hearings as a consequence of the Memorials and Countermemorials
  filed by the parties in 2003 and 2005 over sovereignty of Pedra
  Branca Island/Pulau Batu Puteh, Middle Rocks and South Ledge;
  Indonesia and Singapore continue to work on finalization of their
  1973 maritime boundary agreement by defining unresolved areas north
  of Indonesia's Batam Island; piracy remains a problem in the Malacca
  Strait

Slovakia
  bilateral government, legal, technical and economic working
  group negotiations continued in 2006 between Slovakia and Hungary
  over Hungary's completion of its portion of the Gabcikovo-Nagymaros
  hydroelectric dam project along the Danube; as a member state that
  forms part of the EU's external border, Slovakia has implemented the
  strict Schengen border rules

Slovenia
  the Croatia-Slovenia land and maritime boundary agreement,
  which would have ceded most of Piran Bay and maritime access to
  Slovenia and several villages to Croatia, remains unratified and in
  dispute; Slovenia also protests Croatia's 2003 claim to an exclusive
  economic zone in the Adriatic; as a member state that forms part of
  the EU's external border, Slovenia has implemented the strict
  Schengen border rules to curb illegal migration and commerce through
  southeastern Europe while encouraging close cross-border ties with
  Croatia

Solomon Islands
  since 2003, the Regional Assistance Mission to the
  Solomon Islands (RAMSI), consisting of police, military, and
  civilian advisors drawn from 15 countries, has assisted in
  reestablishing and maintaining civil and political order while
  reinforcing regional stability and security

Somalia
  Ethiopian forces invaded southern Somalia and routed
  Islamist Courts from Mogadishu in January 2007; "Somaliland"
  secessionists provide port facilities in Berbera to landlocked
  Ethiopia and have established commercial ties with other regional
  states; "Puntland" and "Somaliland" "governments" seek international
  support in their secessionist aspirations and overlapping border
  claims; the undemarcated former British administrative line has
  little meaning as a political separation to rival clans within
  Ethiopia's Ogaden and southern Somalia's Oromo region; Kenya works
  hard to prevent the clan and militia fighting in Somalia from
  spreading south across the border, which has long been open to
  nomadic pastoralists

South Africa
  South Africa has placed military along the border to
  apprehend the thousands of Zimbabweans fleeing economic dysfunction
  and political persecution; as of January 2007, South Africa also
  supports large numbers of refugees and asylum seekers from the
  Democratic Republic of the Congo (33,000), Somalia (20,000), Burundi
  (6,500), and other states in Africa (26,000); managed dispute with
  Namibia over the location of the boundary in the Orange River; in
  2006, Swazi king advocates resort to ICJ to claim parts of
  Mpumalanga and KwaZulu-Natal from South Africa

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  Argentina, which claims
  the islands in its constitution and briefly occupied them by force
  in 1982, agreed in 1995 to no longer seek settlement by force

Southern Ocean
  Antarctic Treaty defers claims (see Antarctica
  entry), but Argentina, Australia, Chile, France, NZ, Norway, and UK
  assert claims (some overlapping), including the continental shelf in
  the Southern Ocean; several states have expressed an interest in
  extending those continental shelf claims under the United Nations
  Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) to include undersea
  ridges; the US and most other states do not recognize the land or
  maritime claims of other states and have made no claims themselves
  (the US and Russia have reserved the right to do so); no formal
  claims exist in the waters in the sector between 90 degrees west and
  150 degrees west

Spain
  in 2002, Gibraltar residents voted overwhelmingly by
  referendum to remain a British colony and against a "total shared
  sovereignty" arrangement while demanding participation in talks
  between the UK and Spain; Spain disapproves of UK plans to grant
  Gibraltar greater autonomy; Morocco protests Spain's control over
  the coastal enclaves of Ceuta, Melilla, and the islands of Penon de
  Velez de la Gomera, Penon de Alhucemas and Islas Chafarinas, and
  surrounding waters; Morocco serves as the primary launching site of
  illegal migration into Spain from North Africa; Portugal does not
  recognize Spanish sovereignty over the territory of Olivenza based
  on a difference of interpretation of the 1815 Congress of Vienna and
  the 1801 Treaty of Badajoz

Spratly Islands
  all of the Spratly Islands are claimed by China,
  Taiwan, and Vietnam; parts of them are claimed by Malaysia and the
  Philippines; in 1984, Brunei established an exclusive fishing zone
  that encompasses Louisa Reef in the southern Spratly Islands but has
  not publicly claimed the reef; claimants in November 2002 signed the
  "Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea,"
  which has eased tensions but falls short of a legally binding "code
  of conduct"; in March 2005, the national oil companies of China, the
  Philippines, and Vietnam signed a joint accord to conduct marine
  seismic activities in the Spratly Islands

Sri Lanka
  none

Sudan
  the effects of Sudan's almost constant ethnic and rebel
  militia fighting since the mid-20th century have penetrated all of
  the neighboring states; as of 2006, Chad, Ethiopia, Kenya, Central
  African Republic, Democratic Republic of the Congo, and Uganda
  provided shelter for over half a million Sudanese refugees, which
  includes 240,000 Darfur residents driven from their homes by
  Janjawid armed militia and the Sudanese military forces; Sudan, in
  turn, hosted about 116,000 Eritreans, 20,000 Chadians, and smaller
  numbers of Ethiopians, Ugandans, Central Africans, and Congolese as
  refugees; in February 2006, Sudan and DROC signed an agreement to
  repatriate 13,300 Sudanese and 6,800 Congolese; Sudan accuses
  Eritrea of supporting Sudanese rebel groups; efforts to demarcate
  the porous boundary with Ethiopia proceed slowly due to civil and
  ethnic fighting in eastern Sudan; the boundary that separates Kenya
  and Sudan's sovereignty is unclear in the "Ilemi Triangle," which
  Kenya has administered since colonial times; while Sudan claims to
  administer the Hala'ib Triangle north of the 1899 Treaty boundary
  along the 22nd Parallel; both states withdrew their military
  presence in the 1990s, and Egypt has invested in and effectively
  administers the area; periodic violent skirmishes with Sudanese
  residents over water and grazing rights persist among related
  pastoral populations along the border with the Central African
  Republic

Suriname
  area claimed by French Guiana between Riviere Litani and
  Riviere Marouini (both headwaters of the Lawa); Suriname claims a
  triangle of land between the New and Kutari/Koetari rivers in a
  historic dispute over the headwaters of the Courantyne; Guyana seeks
  United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) arbitration
  to resolve the long-standing dispute with Suriname over the axis of
  the territorial sea boundary in potentially oil-rich waters

Svalbard
  despite recent discussions, Russia and Norway dispute their
  maritime limits in the Barents Sea and Russia's fishing rights
  beyond Svalbard's territorial limits within the Svalbard Treaty zone

Swaziland
  in 2006, Swazi king advocates resort to ICJ to claim parts
  of Mpumalanga and KwaZulu-Natal from South Africa

Sweden
  none

Switzerland
  none

Syria
  Golan Heights is Israeli-occupied with the almost 1,000-strong
  UN Disengagement Observer Force (UNDOF) patrolling a buffer zone
  since 1964; lacking a treaty or other documentation describing the
  boundary, portions of the Lebanon-Syria boundary are unclear with
  several sections in dispute; since 2000, Lebanon has claimed Shaba'a
  farms in the Golan Heights; 2004 Agreement and pending demarcation
  settles border dispute with Jordan; approximately two million Iraqis
  have fled the conflict in Iraq with the majority taking refuge in
  Syria and Jordan

Taiwan
  involved in complex dispute with China, Malaysia,
  Philippines, Vietnam, and possibly Brunei over the Spratly Islands;
  the 2002 "Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China
  Sea" has eased tensions but falls short of a legally binding "code
  of conduct" desired by several of the disputants; Paracel Islands
  are occupied by China, but claimed by Taiwan and Vietnam; in 2003,
  China and Taiwan became more vocal in rejecting both Japan's claims
  to the uninhabited islands of the Senkaku-shoto (Diaoyu Tai) and
  Japan's unilaterally declared exclusive economic zone in the East
  China Sea where all parties engage in hydrocarbon prospecting

Tajikistan
  in 2006, China and Tajikistan pledged to commence
  demarcation of the revised boundary agreed to in the delimitation of
  2002; talks continue with Uzbekistan to delimit border and remove
  minefields; disputes in Isfara Valley delay delimitation with
  Kyrgyzstan

Tanzania
  Tanzania still hosts more than a half-million refugees,
  more than any other African country, mainly from Burundi and the
  Democratic Republic of the Congo, despite the international
  community's efforts at repatriation; disputes with Malawi over the
  boundary in Lake Nyasa (Lake Malawi) and the meandering Songwe River
  remain dormant

Thailand
  separatist violence in Thailand's predominantly Muslim
  southern provinces prompt border closures and controls with Malaysia
  to stem terrorist activities; Southeast Asian states have enhanced
  border surveillance to check the spread of avian flu; talks continue
  on completion of demarcation with Laos but disputes remain over
  several islands in the Mekong River; despite continuing border
  committee talks, Thailand must deal with Karen and other ethnic
  rebels, refugees, and illegal cross-border activities, and as of
  2006, over 116,000 Karen, Hmong, and other refugees and asylum
  seekers from Burma; Cambodia and Thailand dispute sections of
  historic boundary with missing boundary markers; Cambodia claims
  Thai encroachments into Cambodian territory and obstructing access
  to Preah Vihear temple ruins awarded to Cambodia by ICJ decision in
  1962; Thailand is studying the feasibility of jointly constructing
  the Hatgyi Dam on the Salween river near the border with Burma; in
  2004, international environmentalist pressure prompted China to halt
  construction of 13 dams on the Salween River that flows through
  China, Burma, and Thailand

Timor-Leste
  Timor-Leste-Indonesia Boundary Committee has resolved
  all but a small portion of the land boundary, but discussions on
  maritime boundaries are stalemated over sovereignty of the
  uninhabited coral island of Pulau Batek/Fatu Sinai in the north and
  alignment with Australian claims in the south; many refugees who
  left Timor-Leste in 2003 still reside in Indonesia and refuse
  repatriation; Australia and Timor-Leste agreed in 2005 to defer the
  disputed portion of the boundary for 50 years and to split
  hydrocarbon revenues evenly outside the Joint Petroleum Development
  Area covered by the 2002 Timor Sea Treaty

Togo
  in 2001, Benin claimed Togo moved boundary monuments - joint
  commission continues to resurvey the boundary; in 2006 14,000
  Togolese refugees remain in Benin and Ghana out of the 40,000 who
  fled there in 2005

Tokelau
  Tokelau included American Samoa's Swains Island (Olohega) in
  its 2006 draft constitution

Tonga
  none

Trinidad and Tobago
  in April 2006, the Permanent Court of
  Arbitration issued a decision that delimited a maritime boundary
  with Trinidad and Tobago and compelled Barbados to enter a fishing
  agreement that limited Barbadian fishermen's catches of flying fish
  in Trinidad and Tobago's exclusive economic zone; in 2005, Barbados
  and Trinidad and Tobago agreed to compulsory international
  arbitration under UNCLOS challenging whether the northern limit of
  Trinidad and Tobago's and Venezuela's maritime boundary extends into
  Barbadian waters; Guyana has also expressed its intention to include
  itself in the arbitration as the Trinidad and Tobago-Venezuela
  maritime boundary may extend into its waters as well

Tunisia
  none

Turkey
  complex maritime, air, and territorial disputes with Greece
  in the Aegean Sea; status of north Cyprus question remains; Syria
  and Iraq protest Turkish hydrological projects to control upper
  Euphrates waters; Turkey has expressed concern over the status of
  Kurds in Iraq; border with Armenia remains closed over
  Nagorno-Karabakh

Turkmenistan
  cotton monoculture in Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan
  creates water-sharing difficulties for Amu Darya river states; field
  demarcation of the boundaries with Kazakhstan commenced in 2005, but
  Caspian seabed delimitation remains stalled with Azerbaijan, Iran,
  and Kazakhstan due to Turkmenistan's indecision over how to allocate
  the sea's waters and seabed

Turks and Caicos Islands
  have received Haitians fleeing economic and
  civil disorder

Tuvalu
  none

Uganda
  Uganda is subject to armed fighting among hostile ethnic
  groups, rebels, armed gangs, militias, and various government forces
  that extend across its borders; Uganda hosts 209,860 Sudanese,
  27,560 Congolese, and 19,710 Rwandan refugees, while Ugandan
  refugees as well as members of the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) seek
  shelter in southern Sudan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo's
  Garamba National Park; LRA forces have also attacked Kenyan villages
  across the border

Ukraine
  1997 boundary delimitation treaty with Belarus remains
  un-ratified due to unresolved financial claims, stalling demarcation
  and reducing border security; delimitation of land boundary with
  Russia is complete with preparations for demarcation underway; the
  dispute over the boundary between Russia and Ukraine through the
  Kerch Strait and Sea of Azov remains unresolved despite a December
  2003 framework agreement and ongoing expert-level discussions;
  Moldova and Ukraine operate joint customs posts to monitor transit
  of people and commodities through Moldova's break-away Transnistria
  Region, which remains under OSCE supervision; the ICJ gave Ukraine
  until December 2006 to reply, and Romania until June 2007 to rejoin,
  in their dispute submitted in 2004 over Ukrainian-administered
  Zmiyinyy/Serpilor (Snake) Island and Black Sea maritime boundary;
  Romania opposes Ukraine's reopening of a navigation canal from the
  Danube border through Ukraine to the Black Sea

United Arab Emirates
  boundary agreement was signed and ratified with
  Oman in 2003 for entire border, including Oman's Musandam Peninsula
  and Al Madhah enclaves, but contents of the agreement and detailed
  maps showing the alignment have not been published; Iran and UAE
  dispute Tunb Islands and Abu Musa Island, which Iran occupies

United Kingdom
  in 2002, Gibraltar residents voted overwhelmingly by
  referendum to reject any "shared sovereignty" arrangement between
  the UK and Spain; the Government of Gibraltar insists on equal
  participation in talks between the two countries; Spain disapproves
  of UK plans to grant Gibraltar greater autonomy; Mauritius and
  Seychelles claim the Chagos Archipelago (British Indian Ocean
  Territory), and its former inhabitants since their eviction in 1965;
  most Chagossians reside in Mauritius, and in 2001 were granted UK
  citizenship, where some have since resettled; in May 2006, the High
  Court of London reversed the UK Government's 2004 orders of council
  that banned habitation on the islands; UK rejects sovereignty talks
  requested by Argentina, which still claims the Falkland Islands
  (Islas Malvinas) and South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands;
  territorial claim in Antarctica (British Antarctic Territory)
  overlaps Argentine claim and partially overlaps Chilean claim;
  Iceland, the UK, and Ireland dispute Denmark's claim that the Faroe
  Islands' continental shelf extends beyond 200 nm

United States
  the U.S. has intensified domestic security measures
  and is collaborating closely with its neighbors, Canada and Mexico,
  to monitor and control legal and illegal personnel, transport, and
  commodities across the international borders; abundant rainfall in
  recent years along much of the Mexico-US border region has
  ameliorated periodically strained water-sharing arrangements; 1990
  Maritime Boundary Agreement in the Bering Sea still awaits Russian
  Duma ratification; managed maritime boundary disputes with Canada at
  Dixon Entrance, Beaufort Sea, Strait of Juan de Fuca, and around the
  disputed Machias Seal Island and North Rock; The Bahamas and US have
  not been able to agree on a maritime boundary; US Naval Base at
  Guantanamo Bay is leased from Cuba and only mutual agreement or US
  abandonment of the area can terminate the lease; Haiti claims
  US-administered Navassa Island; US has made no territorial claim in
  Antarctica (but has reserved the right to do so) and does not
  recognize the claims of any other states; Marshall Islands claims
  Wake Island; Tokelau included American Samoa's Swains Island among
  the islands listed in its 2006 draft constitution

United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
  none

Uruguay
  in Jan 2007, ICJ provisionally ruled Uruguay may begin
  construction of two paper mills on the Uruguay River, which forms
  the border with Argentina, while the court examines further whether
  Argentina has the legal right to stop such construction with
  potential environmental implications to both countries; uncontested
  dispute with Brazil over certain islands in the Quarai/Cuareim and
  Invernada streams and the resulting tripoint with Argentina

Uzbekistan
  prolonged drought and cotton monoculture in Uzbekistan
  and Turkmenistan creates water-sharing difficulties for Amu Darya
  river states; field demarcation of the boundaries with Kazakhstan
  commenced in 2004; border delimitation of 130 km of border with
  Kyrgyzstan is hampered by serious disputes around enclaves and other
  areas

Vanuatu
  Matthew and Hunter Islands east of New Caledonia claimed by
  Vanuatu and France

Venezuela
  claims all of the area west of the Essequibo River in
  Guyana, preventing any discussion of a maritime boundary; Guyana has
  expressed its intention to join Barbados in asserting claims before
  the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) that
  Trinidad and Tobago's maritime boundary with Venezuela extends into
  their waters; dispute with Colombia over maritime boundary and
  Venezuelan-administered Los Monjes islands near the Gulf of
  Venezuela; Colombian-organized illegal narcotics and paramilitary
  activities penetrate Venezuela's shared border region; in 2006, an
  estimated 139,000 Colombians sought protection in 150 communities
  along the border in Venezuela; US, France, and the Netherlands
  recognize Venezuela's granting full effect to Aves Island, thereby
  claiming a Venezuelan EEZ/continental shelf extending over a large
  portion of the eastern Caribbean Sea; Dominica, Saint Kitts and
  Nevis, Saint Lucia, and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines protest
  Venezuela's full effect claim

Vietnam
  southeast Asian states have enhanced border surveillance to
  check the spread of avian flu; Cambodia and Laos protest Vietnamese
  squatters and armed encroachments along border; an estimated 300,000
  Vietnamese refugees reside in China; establishment of a maritime
  boundary with Cambodia is hampered by unresolved dispute over the
  sovereignty of offshore islands; demarcation of the China-Vietnam
  boundary proceeds slowly and although the maritime boundary
  delimitation and fisheries agreements were ratified in June 2004,
  implementation has been delayed; China occupies the Paracel Islands
  also claimed by Vietnam and Taiwan; involved in complex dispute with
  China, Malaysia, Philippines, Taiwan, and possibly Brunei over the
  Spratly Islands; the 2002 "Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in
  the South China Sea" has eased tensions but falls short of a legally
  binding "code of conduct" desired by several of the disputants;
  Vietnam continues to expand construction of facilities in the
  Spratly Islands; in March 2005, the national oil companies of China,
  the Philippines, and Vietnam signed a joint accord to conduct marine
  seismic activities in the Spratly Islands

Virgin Islands
  none

Wake Island
  claimed by Marshall Islands

Wallis and Futuna
  none

West Bank
  West Bank and Gaza Strip are Israeli-occupied with current
  status subject to the Israeli-Palestinian Interim Agreement -
  permanent status to be determined through further negotiation;
  Israel continues construction of a "seam line" separation barrier
  along parts of the Green Line and within the West Bank; Israel
  withdrew from four settlements in the northern West Bank in August
  2005; since 1948, about 350 peacekeepers from the UN Truce
  Supervision Organization (UNTSO), headquartered in Jerusalem,
  monitor ceasefires, supervise armistice agreements, prevent isolated
  incidents from escalating, and assist other UN personnel in the
  region

Western Sahara
  Morocco claims and administers Western Sahara, whose
  sovereignty remains unresolved; UN-administered cease-fire has
  remained in effect since September 1991, administered by the UN
  Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO), but attempts
  to hold a referendum have failed and parties thus far have rejected
  all brokered proposals; several states have extended diplomatic
  relations to the "Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic" represented by
  the Polisario Front in exile in Algeria, while others recognize
  Moroccan sovereignty over Western Sahara; most of the approximately
  102,000 Sahrawi refugees are sheltered in camps in Tindouf, Algeria

World
  stretching over 250,000 km, the world's 322 international land
  boundaries separate 194 independent states and 70 dependencies,
  areas of special sovereignty, and other miscellaneous entities;
  ethnicity, culture, race, religion, and language have divided states
  into separate political entities as much as history, physical
  terrain, political fiat, or conquest, resulting in sometimes
  arbitrary and imposed boundaries; most maritime states have claimed
  limits that include territorial seas and exclusive economic zones;
  overlapping limits due to adjacent or opposite coasts create the
  potential for 430 bilateral maritime boundaries of which 209 have
  agreements that include contiguous and non-contiguous segments;
  boundary, borderland/resource, and territorial disputes vary in
  intensity from managed or dormant to violent or militarized;
  undemarcated, indefinite, porous, and unmanaged boundaries tend to
  encourage illegal cross-border activities, uncontrolled migration,
  and confrontation; territorial disputes may evolve from historical
  and/or cultural claims, or they may be brought on by resource
  competition; ethnic and cultural clashes continue to be responsible
  for much of the territorial fragmentation and internal displacement
  of the estimated 6.6 million people and cross-border displacements
  of 8.6 million refugees around the world as of early 2006; just over
  one million refugees were repatriated in the same period; other
  sources of contention include access to water and mineral
  (especially hydrocarbon) resources, fisheries, and arable land;
  armed conflict prevails not so much between the uniformed armed
  forces of independent states as between stateless armed entities
  that detract from the sustenance and welfare of local populations,
  leaving the community of nations to cope with resultant refugees,
  hunger, disease, impoverishment, and environmental degradation

Yemen
  Saudi Arabia has reinforced its concrete-filled security
  barrier along sections of the fully demarcated border with Yemen to
  stem illegal cross-border activities

Zambia
  in 2004, Zimbabwe dropped objections to plans between
  Botswana and Zambia to build a bridge over the Zambezi River,
  thereby de facto recognizing a short, but not clearly delimited,
  Botswana-Zambia boundary in the river; 42,250 Congolese refugees in
  Zambia are offered voluntary repatriation in November 2006, most of
  whom are expected to return in the next two years; Angolan refugees
  too have been repatriating but 26,450 still remain with 90,000
  others from other neighboring states in 2006

Zimbabwe
  Botswana built electric fences and South Africa has placed
  military along the border to stem the flow of thousands of
  Zimbabweans fleeing to find work and escape political persecution;
  Namibia has supported, and in 2004 Zimbabwe dropped objections to,
  plans between Botswana and Zambia to build a bridge over the Zambezi
  River, thereby de facto recognizing a short, but not clearly
  delimited, Botswana-Zambia boundary in the river

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2075  Ethnic groups (%)


Afghanistan
  Pashtun 42%, Tajik 27%, Hazara 9%, Uzbek 9%, Aimak 4%,
  Turkmen 3%, Baloch 2%, other 4%

Albania
  Albanian 95%, Greek 3%, other 2% (Vlach, Roma (Gypsy), Serb,
  Macedonian, Bulgarian) (1989 est.)
  note: in 1989, other estimates of the Greek population ranged from
  1% (official Albanian statistics) to 12% (from a Greek organization)

Algeria
  Arab-Berber 99%, European less than 1%
  note: almost all Algerians are Berber in origin, not Arab; the
  minority who identify themselves as Berber live mostly in the
  mountainous region of Kabylie east of Algiers; the Berbers are also
  Muslim but identify with their Berber rather than Arab cultural
  heritage; Berbers have long agitated, sometimes violently, for
  autonomy; the government is unlikely to grant autonomy but has
  offered to begin sponsoring teaching Berber language in schools

American Samoa
  native Pacific islander 91.6%, Asian 2.8%, white
  1.1%, mixed 4.2%, other 0.3% (2000 census)

Andorra
  Spanish 43%, Andorran 33%, Portuguese 11%, French 7%, other
  6% (1998)

Angola
  Ovimbundu 37%, Kimbundu 25%, Bakongo 13%, mestico (mixed
  European and native African) 2%, European 1%, other 22%

Anguilla
  black (predominant) 90.1%, mixed, mulatto 4.6%, white 3.7%,
  other 1.5% (2001 census)

Antigua and Barbuda
  black 91%, mixed 4.4%, white 1.7%, other 2.9%
  (2001 census)

Argentina
  white (mostly Spanish and Italian) 97%, mestizo (mixed
  white and Amerindian ancestry), Amerindian, or other non-white
  groups 3%

Armenia
  Armenian 97.9%, Yezidi (Kurd) 1.3%, Russian 0.5%, other 0.3%
  (2001 census)

Aruba
  mixed white/Caribbean Amerindian 80%, other 20%

Australia
  white 92%, Asian 7%, aboriginal and other 1%

Austria
  Austrians 91.1%, former Yugoslavs 4% (includes Croatians,
  Slovenes, Serbs, and Bosniaks), Turks 1.6%, German 0.9%, other or
  unspecified 2.4% (2001 census)

Azerbaijan
  Azeri 90.6%, Dagestani 2.2%, Russian 1.8%, Armenian 1.5%,
  other 3.9% (1999 census)
  note: almost all Armenians live in the separatist Nagorno-Karabakh
  region

Bahamas, The
  black 85%, white 12%, Asian and Hispanic 3%

Bahrain
  Bahraini 62.4%, non-Bahraini 37.6% (2001 census)

Bangladesh
  Bengali 98%, other 2% (includes tribal groups,
  non-Bengali Muslims) (1998)

Barbados
  black 90%, white 4%, Asian and mixed 6%

Belarus
  Belarusian 81.2%, Russian 11.4%, Polish 3.9%, Ukrainian
  2.4%, other 1.1% (1999 census)

Belgium
  Fleming 58%, Walloon 31%, mixed or other 11%

Belize
  mestizo 48.7%, Creole 24.9%, Maya 10.6%, Garifuna 6.1%, other
  9.7% (2000 census)

Benin
  Fon and related 39.2%, Adja and related 15.2%, Yoruba and
  related 12.3%, Bariba and related 9.2%, Peulh and related 7%,
  Ottamari and related 6.1%, Yoa-Lokpa and related 4%, Dendi and
  related 2.5%, other 1.6% (includes Europeans), unspecified 2.9%
  (2002 census)

Bermuda
  black 54.8%, white 34.1%, mixed 6.4%, other races 4.3%,
  unspecified 0.4% (2000 census)

Bhutan
  Bhote 50%, ethnic Nepalese 35% (includes Lhotsampas - one of
  several Nepalese ethnic groups), indigenous or migrant tribes 15%

Bolivia
  Quechua 30%, mestizo (mixed white and Amerindian ancestry)
  30%, Aymara 25%, white 15%

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  Bosniak 48%, Serb 37.1%, Croat 14.3%, other
  0.6% (2000)
  note: Bosniak has replaced Muslim as an ethnic term in part to avoid
  confusion with the religious term Muslim - an adherent of Islam

Botswana
  Tswana (or Setswana) 79%, Kalanga 11%, Basarwa 3%, other,
  including Kgalagadi and white 7%

Brazil
  white 53.7%, mulatto (mixed white and black) 38.5%, black
  6.2%, other (includes Japanese, Arab, Amerindian) 0.9%, unspecified
  0.7% (2000 census)

British Virgin Islands
  black 83.4%, white 7%, mixed 5.4%, Indian
  3.4%, other 0.8% (1991 census)

Brunei
  Malay 66.3%, Chinese 11.2%, indigenous 3.4%, other 19.1%
  (2004 est.)

Bulgaria
  Bulgarian 83.9%, Turk 9.4%, Roma 4.7%, other 2% (including
  Macedonian, Armenian, Tatar, Circassian) (2001 census)

Burkina Faso
  Mossi over 40%, other approximately 60% (includes
  Gurunsi, Senufo, Lobi, Bobo, Mande, and Fulani)

Burma
  Burman 68%, Shan 9%, Karen 7%, Rakhine 4%, Chinese 3%, Indian
  2%, Mon 2%, other 5%

Burundi
  Hutu (Bantu) 85%, Tutsi (Hamitic) 14%, Twa (Pygmy) 1%,
  Europeans 3,000, South Asians 2,000

Cambodia
  Khmer 90%, Vietnamese 5%, Chinese 1%, other 4%

Cameroon
  Cameroon Highlanders 31%, Equatorial Bantu 19%, Kirdi 11%,
  Fulani 10%, Northwestern Bantu 8%, Eastern Nigritic 7%, other
  African 13%, non-African less than 1%

Canada
  British Isles origin 28%, French origin 23%, other European
  15%, Amerindian 2%, other, mostly Asian, African, Arab 6%, mixed
  background 26%

Cape Verde
  Creole (mulatto) 71%, African 28%, European 1%

Cayman Islands
  mixed 40%, white 20%, black 20%, expatriates of
  various ethnic groups 20%

Central African Republic
  Baya 33%, Banda 27%, Mandjia 13%, Sara 10%,
  Mboum 7%, M'Baka 4%, Yakoma 4%, other 2%

Chad
  Sara 27.7%, Arab 12.3%, Mayo-Kebbi 11.5%, Kanem-Bornou 9%,
  Ouaddai 8.7%, Hadjarai 6.7%, Tandjile 6.5%, Gorane 6.3%, Fitri-Batha
  4.7%, other 6.4%, unknown 0.3% (1993 census)

Chile
  white and white-Amerindian 95.4%, Mapuche 4%, other indigenous
  groups 0.6% (2002 census)

China
  Han Chinese 91.5%, Zhuang, Manchu, Hui, Miao, Uyghur, Tujia,
  Yi, Mongol, Tibetan, Buyi, Dong, Yao, Korean, and other
  nationalities 8.5% (2000 census)

Christmas Island
  Chinese 70%, European 20%, Malay 10%
  note: no indigenous population (2001)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  Europeans, Cocos Malays

Colombia
  mestizo 58%, white 20%, mulatto 14%, black 4%, mixed
  black-Amerindian 3%, Amerindian 1%

Comoros
  Antalote, Cafre, Makoa, Oimatsaha, Sakalava

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  over 200 African ethnic groups of
  which the majority are Bantu; the four largest tribes - Mongo, Luba,
  Kongo (all Bantu), and the Mangbetu-Azande (Hamitic) make up about
  45% of the population

Congo, Republic of the
  Kongo 48%, Sangha 20%, M'Bochi 12%, Teke 17%,
  Europeans and other 3%

Cook Islands
  Cook Island Maori (Polynesian) 87.7%, part Cook Island
  Maori 5.8%, other 6.5% (2001 census)

Costa Rica
  white (including mestizo) 94%, black 3%, Amerindian 1%,
  Chinese 1%, other 1%

Cote d'Ivoire
  Akan 42.1%, Voltaiques or Gur 17.6%, Northern Mandes
  16.5%, Krous 11%, Southern Mandes 10%, other 2.8% (includes 130,000
  Lebanese and 14,000 French) (1998)

Croatia
  Croat 89.6%, Serb 4.5%, other 5.9% (including Bosniak,
  Hungarian, Slovene, Czech, and Roma) (2001 census)

Cuba
  white 65.1%, mulatto and mestizo 24.8%, black 10.1% (2002
  census)

Cyprus
  Greek 77%, Turkish 18%, other 5% (2001)

Czech Republic
  Czech 90.4%, Moravian 3.7%, Slovak 1.9%, other 4%
  (2001 census)

Denmark
  Scandinavian, Inuit, Faroese, German, Turkish, Iranian,
  Somali

Djibouti
  Somali 60%, Afar 35%, other 5% (includes French, Arab,
  Ethiopian, and Italian)

Dominica
  black 86.8%, mixed 8.9%, Carib Amerindian 2.9%, white 0.8%,
  other 0.7% (2001 census)

Dominican Republic
  mixed 73%, white 16%, black 11%

Ecuador
  mestizo (mixed Amerindian and white) 65%, Amerindian 25%,
  Spanish and others 7%, black 3%

Egypt
  Egyptian 99.6%, other 0.4% (2006 census)

El Salvador
  mestizo 90%, white 9%, Amerindian 1%

Equatorial Guinea
  Fang 85.7%, Bubi 6.5%, Mdowe 3.6%, Annobon 1.6%,
  Bujeba 1.1%, other 1.4% (1994 census)

Eritrea
  Tigrinya 50%, Tigre and Kunama 40%, Afar 4%, Saho (Red Sea
  coast dwellers) 3%, other 3%

Estonia
  Estonian 67.9%, Russian 25.6%, Ukrainian 2.1%, Belarusian
  1.3%, Finn 0.9%, other 2.2% (2000 census)

Ethiopia
  Oromo 32.1%, Amara 30.1%, Tigraway 6.2%, Somalie 5.9%,
  Guragie 4.3%, Sidama 3.5%, Welaita 2.4%, other 15.4% (1994 census)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  British

Faroe Islands
  Scandinavian

Fiji
  Fijian 57.3% (predominantly Melanesian with a Polynesian
  admixture), Indian 37.6%, Rotuman 1.2%, other 3.9% (European, other
  Pacific Islanders, Chinese) (2007 census)

Finland
  Finn 93.4%, Swede 5.6%, Russian 0.5%, Estonian 0.3%, Roma
  (Gypsy) 0.1%, Sami 0.1% (2006)

France
  Celtic and Latin with Teutonic, Slavic, North African,
  Indochinese, Basque minorities
  overseas departments: black, white, mulatto, East Indian, Chinese,
  Amerindian

French Polynesia
  Polynesian 78%, Chinese 12%, local French 6%,
  metropolitan French 4%

Gabon
  Bantu tribes, including four major tribal groupings (Fang,
  Bapounou, Nzebi, Obamba); other Africans and Europeans, 154,000,
  including 10,700 French and 11,000 persons of dual nationality

Gambia, The
  African 99% (Mandinka 42%, Fula 18%, Wolof 16%, Jola
  10%, Serahuli 9%, other 4%), non-African 1% (2003 census)

Gaza Strip
  Palestinian Arab

Georgia
  Georgian 83.8%, Azeri 6.5%, Armenian 5.7%, Russian 1.5%,
  other 2.5% (2002 census)

Germany
  German 91.5%, Turkish 2.4%, other 6.1% (made up largely of
  Greek, Italian, Polish, Russian, Serbo-Croatian, Spanish)

Ghana
  Akan 45.3%, Mole-Dagbon 15.2%, Ewe 11.7%, Ga-Dangme 7.3%, Guan
  4%, Gurma 3.6%, Grusi 2.6%, Mande-Busanga 1%, other tribes 1.4%,
  other 7.8% (2000 census)

Gibraltar
  Spanish, Italian, English, Maltese, Portuguese, German,
  North Africans

Greece
  population: Greek 93%, other (foreign citizens) 7% (2001
  census)
  note: percents represent citizenship, since Greece does not collect
  data on ethnicity

Greenland
  Greenlander 88% (Inuit and Greenland-born whites), Danish
  and others 12% (2000)

Grenada
  black 82%, mixed black and European 13%, European and East
  Indian 5%, and trace of Arawak/Carib Amerindian

Guam
  Chamorro 37.1%, Filipino 26.3%, other Pacific islander 11.3%,
  white 6.9%, other Asian 6.3%, other ethnic origin or race 2.3%,
  mixed 9.8% (2000 census)

Guatemala
  Mestizo (mixed Amerindian-Spanish - in local Spanish
  called Ladino) and European 59.4%, K'iche 9.1%, Kaqchikel 8.4%, Mam
  7.9%, Q'eqchi 6.3%, other Mayan 8.6%, indigenous non-Mayan 0.2%,
  other 0.1% (2001 census)

Guernsey
  UK and Norman-French descent with small percentages from
  other European countries

Guinea
  Peuhl 40%, Malinke 30%, Soussou 20%, smaller ethnic groups 10%

Guinea-Bissau
  African 99% (includes Balanta 30%, Fula 20%, Manjaca
  14%, Mandinga 13%, Papel 7%), European and mulatto less than 1%

Guyana
  East Indian 43.5%, black (African) 30.2%, mixed 16.7%,
  Amerindian 9.1%, other 0.5% (2002 census)

Haiti
  black 95%, mulatto and white 5%

Holy See (Vatican City)
  Italians, Swiss, other

Honduras
  mestizo (mixed Amerindian and European) 90%, Amerindian 7%,
  black 2%, white 1%

Hong Kong
  Chinese 95%, Filipino 1.6%, Indonesian 1.3%, other 2.1%
  (2006 census)

Hungary
  Hungarian 92.3%, Roma 1.9%, other or unknown 5.8% (2001
  census)

Iceland
  homogeneous mixture of descendants of Norse and Celts 94%,
  population of foreign origin 6%

India
  Indo-Aryan 72%, Dravidian 25%, Mongoloid and other 3% (2000)

Indonesia
  Javanese 40.6%, Sundanese 15%, Madurese 3.3%, Minangkabau
  2.7%, Betawi 2.4%, Bugis 2.4%, Banten 2%, Banjar 1.7%, other or
  unspecified 29.9% (2000 census)

Iran
  Persian 51%, Azeri 24%, Gilaki and Mazandarani 8%, Kurd 7%,
  Arab 3%, Lur 2%, Baloch 2%, Turkmen 2%, other 1%

Iraq
  Arab 75%-80%, Kurdish 15%-20%, Turkoman, Assyrian, or other 5%

Ireland
  Irish 87.4%, other white 7.5%, Asian 1.3%, black 1.1%, mixed
  1.1%, unspecified 1.6% (2006 census)

Isle of Man
  Manx (Norse-Celtic descent), Britons

Israel
  Jewish 76.4% (of which Israel-born 67.1%, Europe/America-born
  22.6%, Africa-born 5.9%, Asia-born 4.2%), non-Jewish 23.6% (mostly
  Arab) (2004)

Italy
  Italian (includes small clusters of German-, French-, and
  Slovene-Italians in the north and Albanian-Italians and
  Greek-Italians in the south)

Jamaica
  black 91.2%, mixed 6.2%, other or unknown 2.6% (2001 census)

Japan
  Japanese 98.5%, Koreans 0.5%, Chinese 0.4%, other 0.6%
  note: up to 230,000 Brazilians of Japanese origin migrated to Japan
  in the 1990s to work in industries; some have returned to Brazil
  (2004)

Jersey
  Jersey 51.1%, Britons 34.8%, Irish, French, and other white
  6.6%, Portuguese/Madeiran 6.4%, other 1.1% (2001 census)

Jordan
  Arab 98%, Circassian 1%, Armenian 1%

Kazakhstan
  Kazakh (Qazaq) 53.4%, Russian 30%, Ukrainian 3.7%, Uzbek
  2.5%, German 2.4%, Tatar 1.7%, Uygur 1.4%, other 4.9% (1999 census)

Kenya
  Kikuyu 22%, Luhya 14%, Luo 13%, Kalenjin 12%, Kamba 11%, Kisii
  6%, Meru 6%, other African 15%, non-African (Asian, European, and
  Arab) 1%

Kiribati
  Micronesian 98.8%, other 1.2% (2000 census)

Korea, North
  racially homogeneous; there is a small Chinese
  community and a few ethnic Japanese

Korea, South
  homogeneous (except for about 20,000 Chinese)

Kosovo
  Albanians 88%, Serbs 7%, other 5% (Bosniak, Gorani, Roma,
  Turk, Ashkali, Egyptian)

Kuwait
  Kuwaiti 45%, other Arab 35%, South Asian 9%, Iranian 4%,
  other 7%

Kyrgyzstan
  Kyrgyz 64.9%, Uzbek 13.8%, Russian 12.5%, Dungan 1.1%,
  Ukrainian 1%, Uygur 1%, other 5.7% (1999 census)

Laos
  Lao 55%, Khmou 11%, Hmong 8%, other (over 100 minor ethnic
  groups) 26% (2005 census)

Latvia
  Latvian 57.7%, Russian 29.6%, Belarusian 4.1%, Ukrainian
  2.7%, Polish 2.5%, Lithuanian 1.4%, other 2% (2002)

Lebanon
  Arab 95%, Armenian 4%, other 1%
  note: many Christian Lebanese do not identify themselves as Arab but
  rather as descendents of the ancient Canaanites and prefer to be
  called Phoenicians

Lesotho
  Sotho 99.7%, Europeans, Asians, and other 0.3%,

Liberia
  indigenous African 95% (including Kpelle, Bassa, Gio, Kru,
  Grebo, Mano, Krahn, Gola, Gbandi, Loma, Kissi, Vai, Dei, Bella,
  Mandingo, and Mende), Americo-Liberians 2.5% (descendants of
  immigrants from the US who had been slaves), Congo People 2.5%
  (descendants of immigrants from the Caribbean who had been slaves)

Libya
  Berber and Arab 97%, other 3% (includes Greeks, Maltese,
  Italians, Egyptians, Pakistanis, Turks, Indians, and Tunisians)

Liechtenstein
  Liechtensteiner 65.6%, other 34.4% (2000 census)

Lithuania
  Lithuanian 83.4%, Polish 6.7%, Russian 6.3%, other or
  unspecified 3.6% (2001 census)

Luxembourg
  Luxembourger 63.1%, Portuguese 13.3%, French 4.5%,
  Italian 4.3%, German 2.3%, other EU 7.3%, other 5.2% (2000 census)

Macau
  Chinese 94.3%, other 5.7% (includes Macanese (mixed Portuguese
  and Asian ancestry)) (2006 census)

Macedonia
  Macedonian 64.2%, Albanian 25.2%, Turkish 3.9%, Roma
  (Gypsy) 2.7%, Serb 1.8%, other 2.2% (2002 census)

Madagascar
  Malayo-Indonesian (Merina and related Betsileo), Cotiers
  (mixed African, Malayo-Indonesian, and Arab ancestry -
  Betsimisaraka, Tsimihety, Antaisaka, Sakalava), French, Indian,
  Creole, Comoran

Malawi
  Chewa, Nyanja, Tumbuka, Yao, Lomwe, Sena, Tonga, Ngoni,
  Ngonde, Asian, European

Malaysia
  Malay 50.4%, Chinese 23.7%, indigenous 11%, Indian 7.1%,
  others 7.8% (2004 est.)

Maldives
  South Indians, Sinhalese, Arabs

Mali
  Mande 50% (Bambara, Malinke, Soninke), Peul 17%, Voltaic 12%,
  Songhai 6%, Tuareg and Moor 10%, other 5%

Malta
  Maltese (descendants of ancient Carthaginians and Phoenicians
  with strong elements of Italian and other Mediterranean stock)

Marshall Islands
  Marshallese 92.1%, mixed Marshallese 5.9%, other 2%
  (2006)

Mauritania
  mixed Moor/black 40%, Moor 30%, black 30%

Mauritius
  Indo-Mauritian 68%, Creole 27%, Sino-Mauritian 3%,
  Franco-Mauritian 2%

Mayotte
  NA

Mexico
  mestizo (Amerindian-Spanish) 60%, Amerindian or predominantly
  Amerindian 30%, white 9%, other 1%

Micronesia, Federated States of
  Chuukese 48.8%, Pohnpeian 24.2%,
  Kosraean 6.2%, Yapese 5.2%, Yap outer islands 4.5%, Asian 1.8%,
  Polynesian 1.5%, other 6.4%, unknown 1.4% (2000 census)

Moldova
  Moldovan/Romanian 78.2%, Ukrainian 8.4%, Russian 5.8%,
  Gagauz 4.4%, Bulgarian 1.9%, other 1.3% (2004 census)
  note: internal disputes with ethnic Slavs in the Transnistrian region

Monaco
  French 47%, Monegasque 16%, Italian 16%, other 21%

Mongolia
  Mongol (mostly Khalkha) 94.9%, Turkic (mostly Kazakh) 5%,
  other (including Chinese and Russian) 0.1% (2000)

Montenegro
  Montenegrin 43%, Serbian 32%, Bosniak 8%, Albanian 5%,
  other (Muslims, Croats, Roma (Gypsy)) 12% (2003 census)

Montserrat
  black, white

Morocco
  Arab-Berber 99.1%, other 0.7%, Jewish 0.2%

Mozambique
  African 99.66% (Makhuwa, Tsonga, Lomwe, Sena, and
  others), Europeans 0.06%, Euro-Africans 0.2%, Indians 0.08%

Namibia
  black 87.5%, white 6%, mixed 6.5%
  note: about 50% of the population belong to the Ovambo tribe and 9%
  to the Kavangos tribe; other ethnic groups include Herero 7%, Damara
  7%, Nama 5%, Caprivian 4%, Bushmen 3%, Baster 2%, Tswana 0.5%

Nauru
  Nauruan 58%, other Pacific Islander 26%, Chinese 8%, European
  8%

Nepal
  Chhettri 15.5%, Brahman-Hill 12.5%, Magar 7%, Tharu 6.6%,
  Tamang 5.5%, Newar 5.4%, Muslim 4.2%, Kami 3.9%, Yadav 3.9%, other
  32.7%, unspecified 2.8% (2001 census)

Netherlands
  Dutch 80.7%, EU 5%, Indonesian 2.4%, Turkish 2.2%,
  Surinamese 2%, Moroccan 2%, Netherlands Antilles & Aruba 0.8%, other
  4.8% (2008 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  mixed black 85%, other 15% (includes Carib
  Amerindian, white, East Asian)

New Caledonia
  Melanesian 44.1%, European 34.1%, Wallisian & Futunian
  9%, Tahitian 2.6%, Indonesian 2.5%, Vietnamese 1.4%, Ni-Vanuatu
  1.1%, other 5.2% (1996 census)

New Zealand
  European 69.8%, Maori 7.9%, Asian 5.7%, Pacific islander
  4.4%, other 0.5%, mixed 7.8%, unspecified 3.8% (2001 census)

Nicaragua
  mestizo (mixed Amerindian and white) 69%, white 17%, black
  9%, Amerindian 5%

Niger
  Haoussa 55.4%, Djerma Sonrai 21%, Tuareg 9.3%, Peuhl 8.5%,
  Kanouri Manga 4.7%, other 1.2% (2001 census)

Nigeria
  Nigeria, Africa's most populous country, is composed of more
  than 250 ethnic groups; the following are the most populous and
  politically influential: Hausa and Fulani 29%, Yoruba 21%, Igbo
  (Ibo) 18%, Ijaw 10%, Kanuri 4%, Ibibio 3.5%, Tiv 2.5%

Niue
  Niuen 78.2%, Pacific islander 10.2%, European 4.5%, mixed 3.9%,
  Asian 0.2%, unspecified 3% (2001 census)

Norfolk Island
  descendants of the Bounty mutineers, Australian, New
  Zealander, Polynesian

Northern Mariana Islands
  Asian 56.3%, Pacific islander 36.3%,
  Caucasian 1.8%, other 0.8%, mixed 4.8% (2000 census)

Norway
  Norwegian 94.4% (includes Sami, about 60,000), other European
  3.6%, other 2% (2007 estimate)

Oman
  Arab, Baluchi, South Asian (Indian, Pakistani, Sri Lankan,
  Bangladeshi), African

Pakistan
  Punjabi 44.68%, Pashtun (Pathan) 15.42%, Sindhi 14.1%,
  Sariaki 8.38%, Muhagirs 7.57%, Balochi 3.57%, other 6.28%

Palau
  Palauan (Micronesian with Malayan and Melanesian admixtures)
  69.9%, Filipino 15.3%, Chinese 4.9%, other Asian 2.4%, white 1.9%,
  Carolinian 1.4%, other Micronesian 1.1%, other or unspecified 3.2%
  (2000 census)

Panama
  mestizo (mixed Amerindian and white) 70%, Amerindian and
  mixed (West Indian) 14%, white 10%, Amerindian 6%

Papua New Guinea
  Melanesian, Papuan, Negrito, Micronesian, Polynesian

Paraguay
  mestizo (mixed Spanish and Amerindian) 95%, other 5%

Peru
  Amerindian 45%, mestizo (mixed Amerindian and white) 37%, white
  15%, black, Japanese, Chinese, and other 3%

Philippines
  Tagalog 28.1%, Cebuano 13.1%, Ilocano 9%,
  Bisaya/Binisaya 7.6%, Hiligaynon Ilonggo 7.5%, Bikol 6%, Waray 3.4%,
  other 25.3% (2000 census)

Pitcairn Islands
  descendants of the Bounty mutineers and their
  Tahitian wives

Poland
  Polish 96.7%, German 0.4%, Belarusian 0.1%, Ukrainian 0.1%,
  other and unspecified 2.7% (2002 census)

Portugal
  homogeneous Mediterranean stock; citizens of black African
  descent who immigrated to mainland during decolonization number less
  than 100,000; since 1990 East Europeans have entered Portugal

Puerto Rico
  white (mostly Spanish origin) 80.5%, black 8%,
  Amerindian 0.4%, Asian 0.2%, mixed 4.2%, other 6.7% (2000 census)

Qatar
  Arab 40%, Indian 18%, Pakistani 18%, Iranian 10%, other 14%

Romania
  Romanian 89.5%, Hungarian 6.6%, Roma 2.5%, Ukrainian 0.3%,
  German 0.3%, Russian 0.2%, Turkish 0.2%, other 0.4% (2002 census)

Russia
  Russian 79.8%, Tatar 3.8%, Ukrainian 2%, Bashkir 1.2%,
  Chuvash 1.1%, other or unspecified 12.1% (2002 census)

Rwanda
  Hutu (Bantu) 84%, Tutsi (Hamitic) 15%, Twa (Pygmy) 1%

Saint Barthelemy
  white, Creole (mulatto), black, Guadeloupe Mestizo
  (French-East Asia)

Saint Helena
  African descent 50%, white 25%, Chinese 25%

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  predominantly black; some British, Portuguese,
  and Lebanese

Saint Lucia
  black 82.5%, mixed 11.9%, East Indian 2.4%, other or
  unspecified 3.1% (2001 census)

Saint Martin
  creole (mulatto), black, Guadeloupe Mestizo
  (French-East Asia), white, East Indian

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  Basques and Bretons (French fishermen)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  black 66%, mixed 19%, East Indian
  6%, European 4%, Carib Amerindian 2%, other 3%

Samoa
  Samoan 92.6%, Euronesians (persons of European and Polynesian
  blood) 7%, Europeans 0.4% (2001 census)

San Marino
  Sammarinese, Italian

Sao Tome and Principe
  mestico, angolares (descendants of Angolan
  slaves), forros (descendants of freed slaves), servicais (contract
  laborers from Angola, Mozambique, and Cape Verde), tongas (children
  of servicais born on the islands), Europeans (primarily Portuguese)

Saudi Arabia
  Arab 90%, Afro-Asian 10%

Senegal
  Wolof 43.3%, Pular 23.8%, Serer 14.7%, Jola 3.7%, Mandinka
  3%, Soninke 1.1%, European and Lebanese 1%, other 9.4%

Serbia
  Serb 82.9%, Hungarian 3.9%, Romany (Gypsy) 1.4%, Yugoslavs
  1.1%, Bosniaks 1.8%, Montenegrin 0.9%, other 8% (2002 census)

Seychelles
  mixed French, African, Indian, Chinese, and Arab

Sierra Leone
  20 African ethnic groups 90% (Temne 30%, Mende 30%,
  other 30%), Creole (Krio) 10% (descendants of freed Jamaican slaves
  who were settled in the Freetown area in the late-18th century),
  refugees from Liberia's recent civil war, small numbers of
  Europeans, Lebanese, Pakistanis, and Indians

Singapore
  Chinese 76.8%, Malay 13.9%, Indian 7.9%, other 1.4% (2000
  census)

Slovakia
  Slovak 85.8%, Hungarian 9.7%, Roma 1.7%,
  Ruthenian/Ukrainian 1%, other and unspecified 1.8% (2001 census)

Slovenia
  Slovene 83.1%, Serb 2%, Croat 1.8%, Bosniak 1.1%, other or
  unspecified 12% (2002 census)

Solomon Islands
  Melanesian 94.5%, Polynesian 3%, Micronesian 1.2%,
  other 1.1%, unspecified 0.2% (1999 census)

Somalia
  Somali 85%, Bantu and other non-Somali 15% (including Arabs
  30,000)

South Africa
  black African 79%, white 9.6%, colored 8.9%,
  Indian/Asian 2.5% (2001 census)

Spain
  composite of Mediterranean and Nordic types

Sri Lanka
  Sinhalese 73.8%, Sri Lankan Moors 7.2%, Indian Tamil 4.6%,
  Sri Lankan Tamil 3.9%, other 0.5%, unspecified 10% (2001 census
  provisional data)

Sudan
  black 52%, Arab 39%, Beja 6%, foreigners 2%, other 1%

Suriname
  Hindustani (also known locally as "East Indians"; their
  ancestors emigrated from northern India in the latter part of the
  19th century) 37%, Creole (mixed white and black) 31%, Javanese 15%,
  "Maroons" (their African ancestors were brought to the country in
  the 17th and 18th centuries as slaves and escaped to the interior)
  10%, Amerindian 2%, Chinese 2%, white 1%, other 2%

Svalbard
  Norwegian 55.4%, Russian and Ukrainian 44.3%, other 0.3%
  (1998)

Swaziland
  African 97%, European 3%

Sweden
  indigenous population: Swedes with Finnish and Sami
  minorities; foreign-born or first-generation immigrants: Finns,
  Yugoslavs, Danes, Norwegians, Greeks, Turks

Switzerland
  German 65%, French 18%, Italian 10%, Romansch 1%, other
  6%

Syria
  Arab 90.3%, Kurds, Armenians, and other 9.7%

Taiwan
  Taiwanese (including Hakka) 84%, mainland Chinese 14%,
  indigenous 2%

Tajikistan
  Tajik 79.9%, Uzbek 15.3%, Russian 1.1%, Kyrgyz 1.1%,
  other 2.6% (2000 census)

Tanzania
  mainland - African 99% (of which 95% are Bantu consisting
  of more than 130 tribes), other 1% (consisting of Asian, European,
  and Arab); Zanzibar - Arab, African, mixed Arab and African

Thailand
  Thai 75%, Chinese 14%, other 11%

Timor-Leste
  Austronesian (Malayo-Polynesian), Papuan, small Chinese
  minority

Togo
  African (37 tribes; largest and most important are Ewe, Mina,
  and Kabre) 99%, European and Syrian-Lebanese less than 1%

Tokelau
  Polynesian

Tonga
  Polynesian, Europeans

Trinidad and Tobago
  Indian (South Asian) 40%, African 37.5%, mixed
  20.5%, other 1.2%, unspecified 0.8% (2000 census)

Tunisia
  Arab 98%, European 1%, Jewish and other 1%

Turkey
  Turkish 80%, Kurdish 20% (estimated)

Turkmenistan
  Turkmen 85%, Uzbek 5%, Russian 4%, other 6% (2003)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  black 90%, mixed, European, or North
  American 10%

Tuvalu
  Polynesian 96%, Micronesian 4%

Uganda
  Baganda 16.9%, Banyakole 9.5%, Basoga 8.4%, Bakiga 6.9%,
  Iteso 6.4%, Langi 6.1%, Acholi 4.7%, Bagisu 4.6%, Lugbara 4.2%,
  Bunyoro 2.7%, other 29.6% (2002 census)

Ukraine
  Ukrainian 77.8%, Russian 17.3%, Belarusian 0.6%, Moldovan
  0.5%, Crimean Tatar 0.5%, Bulgarian 0.4%, Hungarian 0.3%, Romanian
  0.3%, Polish 0.3%, Jewish 0.2%, other 1.8% (2001 census)

United Arab Emirates
  Emirati 19%, other Arab and Iranian 23%, South
  Asian 50%, other expatriates (includes Westerners and East Asians)
  8% (1982)
  note: less than 20% are UAE citizens (1982)

United Kingdom
  white (of which English 83.6%, Scottish 8.6%, Welsh
  4.9%, Northern Irish 2.9%) 92.1%, black 2%, Indian 1.8%, Pakistani
  1.3%, mixed 1.2%, other 1.6% (2001 census)

United States
  white 79.96%, black 12.85%, Asian 4.43%, Amerindian
  and Alaska native 0.97%, native Hawaiian and other Pacific islander
  0.18%, two or more races 1.61% (July 2007 estimate)
  note: a separate listing for Hispanic is not included because the US
  Census Bureau considers Hispanic to mean a person of Latin American
  descent (including persons of Cuban, Mexican, or Puerto Rican
  origin) living in the US who may be of any race or ethnic group
  (white, black, Asian, etc.); about 15.1% of the total US population
  is Hispanic

Uruguay
  white 88%, mestizo 8%, black 4%, Amerindian (practically
  nonexistent)

Uzbekistan
  Uzbek 80%, Russian 5.5%, Tajik 5%, Kazakh 3%, Karakalpak
  2.5%, Tatar 1.5%, other 2.5% (1996 est.)

Vanuatu
  Ni-Vanuatu 98.5%, other 1.5% (1999 Census)

Venezuela
  Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, Arab, German, African,
  indigenous people

Vietnam
  Kinh (Viet) 86.2%, Tay 1.9%, Thai 1.7%, Muong 1.5%, Khome
  1.4%, Hoa 1.1%, Nun 1.1%, Hmong 1%, others 4.1% (1999 census)

Virgin Islands
  black 76.2%, white 13.1%, Asian 1.1%, other 6.1%,
  mixed 3.5% (2000 census)

Wallis and Futuna
  Polynesian

West Bank
  Palestinian Arab and other 83%, Jewish 17%

Western Sahara
  Arab, Berber

Yemen
  predominantly Arab; but also Afro-Arab, South Asians, Europeans

Zambia
  African 98.7%, European 1.1%, other 0.2%

Zimbabwe
  African 98% (Shona 82%, Ndebele 14%, other 2%), mixed and
  Asian 1%, white less than 1%

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2076  Exchange rates


Afghanistan
  afghanis (AFA) per US dollar - NA (2007), 46 (2006),
  47.7 (2005), 48 (2004), 49 (2003)

Akrotiri
  euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.4286 (2007), 0.46019 (2006),
  0.4641 (2005), 0.4686 (2004), 0.5174 (2003)

Albania
  leke (ALL) per US dollar - 92.668 (2007), 98.384 (2006),
  102.649 (2005), 102.78 (2004), 121.863 (2003)

Algeria
  Algerian dinars (DZD) per US dollar - 69.9 (2007), 72.647
  (2006), 73.276 (2005), 72.061 (2004), 77.395 (2003)

American Samoa
  the US dollar is used

Andorra
  euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006),
  0.8041 (2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)

Angola
  kwanza (AOA) per US dollar - 76.6 (2007), 80.4 (2006), 88.6
  (2005), 83.541 (2004), 74.606 (2003)

Anguilla
  East Caribbean dollars (XCD) per US dollar - 2.7 (2007),
  2.7 (2006), 2.7 (2005), 2.7 (2004), 2.7 (2003)
  note: fixed rate since 1976

Antigua and Barbuda
  East Caribbean dollars (XCD) per US dollar - 2.7
  (2007), 2.7 (2006), 2.7 (2005), 2.7 (2004), 2.7 (2003)
  note: fixed rate since 1976

Argentina
  Argentine pesos (ARS) per US dollar - 3.1105 (2007),
  3.0543 (2006), 2.9037 (2005), 2.9233 (2004), 2.9006 (2003)

Armenia
  drams (AMD) per US dollar - 344.06 (2007), 414.69 (2006),
  457.69 (2005), 533.45 (2004), 578.76 (2003)

Aruba
  Aruban guilders/florins (AWG) per US dollar - NA (2007), 1.79
  (2006), 1.79 (2005), 1.79 (2004), 1.79 (2003)

Australia
  Australian dollars (AUD) per US dollar - 1.2137 (2007),
  1.3285 (2006), 1.3095 (2005), 1.3598 (2004), 1.5419 (2003)

Austria
  euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006),
  0.8041 (2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)

Azerbaijan
  Azerbaijani manats (AZN) per US dollar - 0.8581 (2007),
  0.8934 (2006), 4,727.1 (2005), 4,913.48 (2004), 4,910.73 (2003)
  note: on 1 January 2006 Azerbaijan revalued its currency, with 5,000
  old manats equal to 1 new manat

Bahamas, The
  Bahamian dollars (BSD) per US dollar - 1 (2007), 1
  (2006), 1 (2005), 1 (2004), 1 (2003)

Bahrain
  Bahraini dinars (BHD) per US dollar - 0.376 (2007), 0.376
  (2006), 0.376 (2005), 0.376 (2004), 0.376 (2003)

Bangladesh
  taka (BDT) per US dollar - 69.893 (2007), 69.031 (2006),
  64.328 (2005), 59.513 (2004), 58.15 (2003)

Barbados
  Barbadian dollars (BBD) per US dollar - NA (2007), 2
  (2006), 2 (2005), 2 (2004), 2 (2003)

Belarus
  Belarusian rubles (BYB/BYR) per US dollar - 2,145 (2007),
  2,144.6 (2006), 2,150 (2005), 2,160.26 (2004), 2,051.27 (2003)

Belgium
  euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006),
  0.8041 (2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)

Belize
  Belizean dollars (BZD) per US dollar - 2 (2007), 2 (2006), 2
  (2005), 2 (2004), 2 (2003)

Benin
  Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US dollar -
  493.51 (2007), 522.59 (2006), 527.47 (2005), 528.29 (2004), 581.2
  (2003)
  note: since 1 January 1999, the XOF franc has been pegged to the
  euro at a rate of 655.957 XOF francs per euro

Bermuda
  Bermudian dollars (BMD) per US dollar - 1.0000 (fixed rate
  pegged to the US dollar)

Bhutan
  ngultrum (BTN) per US dollar - 41.487 (2007), 45.279 (2006),
  44.101 (2005), 45.317 (2004), 46.583 (2003)
  note: the ngultrum is pegged to the Indian rupee

Bolivia
  bolivianos (BOB) per US dollar - 7.8616 (2007), 8.0159
  (2006), 8.0661 (2005), 7.9363 (2004), 7.6592 (2003)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  konvertibilna markas (BAM) per US dollar -
  1.4419 (2007), 1.5576 (2006), 1.5727 (2005), 1.5752 (2004), 1.7329
  (2003)
  note: the convertible mark is pegged to the euro

Botswana
  pulas (BWP) per US dollar - 6.2035 (2007), 5.8447 (2006),
  5.1104 (2005), 4.6929 (2004), 4.9499 (2003)

Brazil
  reals (BRL) per US dollar - 1.85 (2007 est.), 2.1761 (2006),
  2.4344 (2005), 2.9251 (2004), 3.0771 (2003)

British Virgin Islands
  the US dollar is used

Brunei
  Bruneian dollars (BND) per US dollar - NA (2007), 1.5886
  (2006), 1.6644 (2005), 1.6902 (2004), 1.7422 (2003)

Bulgaria
  leva (BGN) per US dollar - 1.4366 (2007), 1.5576 (2006),
  1.5741 (2005), 1.5751 (2004), 1.7327 (2003)

Burkina Faso
  Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US
  dollar - 493.51 (2007), 522.59 (2006), 527.47 (2005), 528.29 (2004),
  581.2 (2003)
  note: since 1 January 1999, the XOF franc has been pegged to the
  euro at a rate of 655.957 XOF francs per euro

Burma
  kyats (MMK) per US dollar - 1,296 (2007), 1,280 (2006), 5.761
  (2005), 5.7459 (2004), 6.0764 (2003)
  note: unofficial exchange rates ranged in 2004 from 815 kyat/US
  dollar to nearly 970 kyat/US dollar, and by yearend 2005, the
  unofficial exchange rate was 1,075 kyat/US dollar; data shown for
  2003-05 are official exchange rates

Burundi
  Burundi francs (BIF) per US dollar - 1,065 (2007), 1,030
  (2006), 1,138 (2005), 1,100.91 (2004), 1,082.62 (2003)

Cambodia
  riels (KHR) per US dollar - 4,006 (2007), 4,103 (2006),
  4,092.5 (2005), 4,016.25 (2004), 3,973.33 (2003)

Cameroon
  Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XAF) per US dollar
  - 493.51 (2007), 522.59 (2006), 527.47 (2005), 528.29 (2004), 581.2
  (2003)

Canada
  Canadian dollars (CAD) per US dollar - 1.0724 (2007), 1.1334
  (2006), 1.2118 (2005), 1.301 (2004), 1.4011 (2003)

Cape Verde
  Cape Verdean escudos (CVE) per US dollar - 81.235 (2007),
  87.946 (2006), 88.67 (2005), 88.808 (2004), 97.703 (2003)

Cayman Islands
  Caymanian dollars (KYD) per US dollar - NA (2007),
  0.8496 (2006)

Central African Republic
  Communaute Financiere Africaine francs
  (XAF) per US dollar - 481.8 (2007), 522.59 (2006), 527.47 (2005),
  528.29 (2004), 581.2 (2003)

Chad
  Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XAF) per US dollar -
  480.1 (2007), 522.59 (2006), 527.47 (2005), 528.29 (2004), 581.2
  (2003)

Chile
  Chilean pesos (CLP) per US dollar - 526.25 (2007), 530.29
  (2006), 560.09 (2005), 609.37 (2004), 691.43 (2003)

China
  Renminbi yuan (RMB) per US dollar - 7.61 (2007), 7.97 (2006),
  8.1943 (2005), 8.2768 (2004), 8.277 (2003)

Christmas Island
  Australian dollars (AUD) per US dollar - 1.2137
  (2007), 1.3285 (2006), 1.3095 (2005), 1.3598 (2004), 1.5419 (2003)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  Australian dollars (AUD) per US dollar -
  1.2137 (2007), 1.3285 (2006), 1.3095 (2005), 1.3598 (2004), 1.5419
  (2003)

Colombia
  Colombian pesos (COP) per US dollar - 2,013.8 (2007),
  2,358.6 (2006), 2,320.75 (2005), 2,628.61 (2004), 2,877.65 (2003)

Comoros
  Comoran francs (KMF) per US dollar - 361.4 (2007), 391.8
  (2006), 395.6 (2005), 396.21 (2004), 435.9 (2003)
  note: the Comoran franc is pegged to the euro at a rate of 491.9677
  Comoran francs per euro

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  Congolese francs (CDF) per US
  dollar - NA (2007), 464.69 (2006), 437.86 (2005), 401.04 (2004),
  405.34 (2003)

Congo, Republic of the
  Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XAF)
  per US dollar - 483.6 (2007), 522.59 (2006), 527.47 (2005), 528.29
  (2004), 581.2 (2003)

Cook Islands
  NZ dollars (NZD) per US dollar - 1.3811 (2007), 1.5408
  (2006), 1.4203 (2005), 1.5087 (2004), 1.7221 (2003)

Costa Rica
  Costa Rican colones (CRC) per US dollar - 519.53 (2007),
  511.3 (2006), 477.79 (2005), 437.91 (2004), 398.66 (2003)

Cote d'Ivoire
  Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US
  dollar - 481.83 (2007), 522.89 (2006), 527.47 (2005), 528.29 (2004),
  581.2 (2003)
  note: since 1 January 1999, the XOF franc has been pegged to the
  euro at a rate of 655.957 XOF francs per euro

Croatia
  kuna (HRK) per US dollar - 5.3735 (2007), 5.8625 (2006),
  5.9473 (2005), 6.0358 (2004), 6.7035 (2003)

Cuba
  Cuban pesos (CUP) per US dollar - 0.9259 (2007), 0.9231 (2006)
  note: Cuba has two currencies in circulation: the Cuban peso (CUP)
  and the convertible peso (CUC); in April 2005 the official exchange
  rate changed from $1 per CUC to $1.08 per CUC (0.93 CUC per $1),
  both for individuals and enterprises; individuals can buy 24 Cuban
  pesos (CUP) for each CUC sold, or sell 25 Cuban pesos for each CUC
  bought; enterprises, however, must exchange CUP and CUC at a 1:1
  ratio.

Cyprus
  Cypriot pounds (CYP) per US dollar -: 0.4286 (2007), 0.4586
  (2006), 0.4641 (2005), 0.4686 (2004), 0.5174 (2003)

Czech Republic
  koruny (CZK) per US dollar - 20.53 (2007), 22.596
  (2006), 23.957 (2005), 25.7 (2004), 28.209 (2003)

Denmark
  Danish kroner (DKK) per US dollar - 5.4797 (2007), 5.9468
  (2006), 5.9969 (2005), 5.9911 (2004), 6.5877 (2003)

Dhekelia
  euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.4286 (2007), 0.46019 (2006),
  0.4641 (2005), 0.4686 (2004), 0.5174 (2003)

Djibouti
  Djiboutian francs (DJF) per US dollar - 177.71 (2007),
  174.75 (2006), 177.72 (2005), 177.72 (2004), 177.72 (2003)

Dominica
  East Caribbean dollars (XCD) per US dollar - 2.7 (2007),
  2.7 (2006), 2.7 (2005), 2.7 (2004), 2.7 (2003)

Dominican Republic
  Dominican pesos (DOP) per US dollar - 33.113
  (2007), 33.406 (2006), 30.409 (2005), 42.12 (2004), 30.831 (2003)

Ecuador
  the US dollar is used; the sucre was eliminated in 2000

Egypt
  Egyptian pounds (EGP) per US dollar - 5.67 (2007), 5.725
  (2006), 5.78 (2005), 6.1962 (2004), 5.8509 (2003)

El Salvador
  the US dollar became El Salvador's currency in 2001

Equatorial Guinea
  Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XAF) per
  US dollar - 481.83 (2007), 522.4 (2006), 527.47 (2005), 528.29
  (2004), 581.2 (2003)

Eritrea
  nakfa (ERN) per US dollar - 15.5 (2007), 15.4 (2006), 14.5
  (2005), 13.788 (2004), 13.878 (2003)
  note: the official exchange rate is 15 nakfa to the dollar

Estonia
  krooni (EEK) per US dollar - 11.535 (2007), 12.473 (2006),
  12.584 (2005), 12.596 (2004), 13.856 (2003)
  note: the krooni is pegged to the euro

Ethiopia
  birr (ETB) per US dollar - 8.96 (2007), 8.69 (2006), 8.68
  (2005), 8.6356 (2004), 8.5997 (2003)
  note: since 24 October 2001, exchange rates are determined on a
  daily basis via interbank transactions regulated by the Central Bank

European Union
  euros per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006),
  0.8041 (2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  Falkland pounds (FKP) per US
  dollar - 0.4993 (2007), 0.5434 (2006), 0.5504 (2005), 0.5462 (2004),
  0.6125 (2003)
  note: the Falkland pound is at par with the British pound

Faroe Islands
  Danish kroner (DKK) per US dollar - 5.4797 (2007),
  5.9468 (2006), 5.9969 (2005), 5.9911 (2004), 6.5877 (2003)

Fiji
  Fijian dollars (FJD) per US dollar - NA (2007), 1.7313 (2006),
  1.691 (2005), 1.7331 (2004), 1.8958 (2003)

Finland
  euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006),
  0.8041 (2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)

France
  euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006),
  0.8041 (2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)

French Polynesia
  Comptoirs Francais du Pacifique francs (XPF) per US
  dollar - 87.59 (2007), 94.97 (2006), 95.89 (2005), 96.04 (2004),
  105.66 (2003)
  note: pegged at the rate of 119.25 XPF to the euro

Gabon
  Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XAF) per US dollar -
  481.83 (2007), 522.89 (2006), 527.47 (2005), 528.29 (2004), 581.2
  (2003)

Gambia, The
  dalasis (GMD) per US dollar - 27.79 (2007), 28.066
  (2006), 28.575 (2005), 30.03 (2004), 27.306 (2003)

Gaza Strip
  new Israeli shekels (ILS) per US dollar - 4.14 (2007),
  4.4565 (2006), 4.4877 (2005), 4.482 (2004), 4.5541 (2003)

Georgia
  laris (GEL) per US dollar - 1.7 (2007), 1.78 (2006), 1.8127
  (2005), 1.9167 (2004), 2.1457 (2003)

Germany
  euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006),
  0.8041 (2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)

Ghana
  cedis (GHC) per US dollar - 0.95 (2007), 9,174.8 (2006),
  9,072.5 (2005), 9,004.6 (2004), 8,677.4 (2003)
  note: in 2007 Ghana revalued its currency with 10,000 old cedis
  equal to 1 new cedis

Gibraltar
  Gibraltar pounds (GIP) per US dollar - 0.4993 (2007),
  0.5434 (2006), 0.5504 (2005), 0.5462 (2004), 0.6125 (2003)
  note: the Gibraltar pound is at par with the British pound

Greece
  euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006),
  0.8041 (2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)

Greenland
  Danish kroner (DKK) per US dollar - 5.4797 (2007), 5.9468
  (2006), 5.9969 (2005), 5.9911 (2004), 6.5877 (2003)

Grenada
  East Caribbean dollars (XCD) per US dollar - 2.7 (2007), 2.7
  (2006), 2.7 (2005), 2.7 (2004), 2.7 (2003)

Guam
  the US dollar is used

Guatemala
  quetzales (GTQ) per US dollar - 7.6833 (2007), 7.6026
  (2006), 7.6339 (2005), 7.9465 (2004), 7.9409 (2003)

Guernsey
  Guernsey pound 0.4993 (2007), 0.5418 (2006), 0.5493 (2005),
  0.5462 (2004), 0.6125 (2003)
  note: the Guernsey pound is at par with the British pound

Guinea
  Guinean francs (GNF) per US dollar - 4,122.8 (2007), 5,350
  (2006), 3,644.3 (2005), 2,225 (2004), 1,984.9 (2003)

Guinea-Bissau
  Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US
  dollar - 493.51 (2007), 522.59 (2006), 527.47 (2005), 528.29 (2004),
  581.2 (2003)
  note: since 1 January 1999, the XOF franc has been pegged to the
  euro at a rate of 655.957 XOF francs per euro

Guyana
  Guyanese dollars (GYD) per US dollar - 201.89 (2007), 200.28
  (2006), 200.79 (2005), 198.31 (2004), 193.88 (2003)

Haiti
  gourdes (HTG) per US dollar - 37.138 (2007), 40.232 (2006),
  40.449 (2005), 38.352 (2004), 42.367 (2003)

Holy See (Vatican City)
  euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007),
  0.7964 (2006), 0.8041 (2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)

Honduras
  lempiras (HNL) per US dollar - 18.9 (2007), 18.895 (2006),
  18.92 (2005), 18.206 (2004), 17.345 (2003)

Hong Kong
  Hong Kong dollars (HKD) per US dollar - 7.802 (2007),
  7.7678 (2006), 7.7773 (2005), 7.788 (2004), 7.7868 (2003)

Hungary
  forints (HUF) per US dollar - 186.16 (2007), 210.39 (2006),
  199.58 (2005), 202.75 (2004), 224.31 (2003)

Iceland
  Icelandic kronur (ISK) per US dollar - 63.391 (2007), 70.195
  (2006), 62.982 (2005), 70.192 (2004), 76.709 (2003)

India
  Indian rupees (INR) per US dollar - 41.487 (2007), 45.3
  (2006), 44.101 (2005), 45.317 (2004), 46.583 (2003)

Indonesia
  Indonesian rupiah (IDR) per US dollar - 9,056 (2007 est.),
  9,159.3 (2006), 9,704.7 (2005), 8,938.9 (2004), 8,577.1 (2003)

Iran
  Iranian rials (IRR) per US dollar - 9,407.5 (2007), 9,227.1
  (2006), 8,964 (2005), 8,614 (2004), 8,193.9 (2003)
  note: Iran has been using a managed floating exchange rate regime
  since unifying multiple exchange rates in March 2002

Iraq
  New Iraqi dinars (NID) per US dollar - 1,255 (2007), 1,466
  (2006), 1,475 (2005), 1,890 (second half, 2003)

Ireland
  euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006),
  0.8041 (2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)

Isle of Man
  Manx pounds (IMP) per US dollar - 0.4993 (2007), 0.5418
  (2006), 0.5493 (2005), 0.5462 (2004), 0.6125 (2003)
  note: the Manx pound is at par with the British pound

Israel
  new Israeli shekels (ILS) per US dollar - 4.14 (2007), 4.4565
  (2006), 4.4877 (2005), 4.482 (2004), 4.5541 (2003)

Italy
  euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006),
  0.8041 (2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)

Jamaica
  Jamaican dollars (JMD) per US dollar - 69.034 (2007), 65.768
  (2006), 62.51 (2005), 61.197 (2004), 57.741 (2003)

Japan
  yen (JPY) per US dollar - 117.99 (2007), 116.18 (2006), 110.22
  (2005), 108.19 (2004), 115.93 (2003)

Jersey
  Jersey pounds per US dollar 0.4993 (2007), 0.5418 (2006),
  0.5493 (2005), 0.5462 (2004), 0.6125 (2003)
  note: the Jersey pound is at par with the British pound

Jordan
  Jordanian dinars (JOD) per US dollar - 0.709 (2007), 0.709
  (2006), 0.709 (2005), 0.709 (2004), 0.709 (2003)

Kazakhstan
  tenge (KZT) per US dollar - 122.55 (2007), 126.09 (2006),
  132.88 (2005), 136.04 (2004), 149.58 (2003)

Kenya
  Kenyan shillings (KES) per US dollar - 68.309 (2007), 72.101
  (2006), 75.554 (2005), 79.174 (2004), 75.936 (2003)

Kiribati
  Australian dollars (AUD) per US dollar - 1.2137 (2007),
  1.3285 (2006), 1.3095 (2005), 1.3598 (2004), 1.5419 (2003)

Korea, North
  North Korean won (KPW) per US dollar - 140 (2007), 141
  (2006), 170 (December 2004), market: North Korean won per US dollar
  - 2,500-3,000 (December 2006)

Korea, South
  South Korean won (KRW) per US dollar - 929.2 (2007),
  954.8 (2006), 1,024.1 (2005), 1,145.3 (2004), 1,191.6 (2003)

Kosovo
  euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007)

Kuwait
  Kuwaiti dinars (KD) per US dollar - 0.2844 (2007), 0.29
  (2006), 0.292 (2005), 0.2947 (2004), 0.298 (2003)

Kyrgyzstan
  soms (KGS) per US dollar - 37.746 (2007), 40.149 (2006),
  41.012 (2005), 42.65 (2004), 43.648 (2003)

Laos
  kips (LAK) per US dollar - 9,658 (2007), 10,235 (2006), 10,820
  (2005), 10,585.5 (2004), 10,569 (2003)

Latvia
  lati (LVL) per US dollar - 0.5162 (2007), 0.5597 (2006),
  0.5647 (2005), 0.5402 (2004), 0.5715 (2003)

Lebanon
  Lebanese pounds (LBP) per US dollar - 1,507.5 (2007),
  1,507.5 (2006), 1,507.5 (2005), 1,507.5 (2004), 1,507.5 (2003)

Lesotho
  maloti (LSL) per US dollar - 7.25 (2007), 6.85 (2006),
  6.3593 (2005), 6.4597 (2004), 7.5648 (2003)

Liberia
  Liberian dollars (LRD) per US dollar - NA (2007), 59.43
  (2006), 53.098 (2005), 54.906 (2004), 59.379 (2003)

Libya
  Libyan dinars (LYD) per US dollar - 1.2604 (2007), 1.3108
  (2006), 1.3084 (2005), 1.305 (2004), 1.2929 (2003)

Liechtenstein
  Swiss francs (CHF) per US dollar - 1.1973 (2007),
  1.2539 (2006), 1.2452 (2005), 1.2435 (2004), 1.3467 (2003)

Lithuania
  litai (LTL) per US dollar - 2.5362 (2007), 2.7498 (2006),
  2.774 (2005), 2.7806 (2004), 3.0609 (2003)

Luxembourg
  euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006),
  0.8041 (2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)

Macau
  patacas (MOP) per US dollar - 8.011 (2007), 8.0015 (2006),
  8.011 (2005), 8.022 (2004), 8.021 (2003)

Macedonia
  Macedonian denars (MKD) per US dollar - 44.732 (2007),
  48.978 (2006), 48.92 (2005), 49.41 (2004), 54.322 (2003)

Madagascar
  Malagasy ariary (MGA) per US dollar - 1,880 (2007),
  2,161.4 (2006), 2,003 (2005), 1,868.9 (2004), 1,238.3 (2003)

Malawi
  Malawian kwachas (MWK) per US dollar - 141.12 (2007), 135.96
  (2006), 108.894 (2005), 108.898 (2004), 97.433 (2003)

Malaysia
  ringgits (MYR) per US dollar - 3.46 (2007), 3.6683 (2006),
  3.8 (2005), 3.8 (2004), 3.8 (2003)

Maldives
  rufiyaa (MVR) per US dollar - NA (2007), 12.8 (2006), 12.8
  (2005), 12.8 (2004), 12.8 (2003)

Mali
  Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US dollar -
  493.51 (2007), 522.59 (2006), 527.47 (2005), 528.29 (2004), 581.2
  (2003)
  note: since 1 January 1999, the XOF franc has been pegged to the
  euro at a rate of 655.957 XOF francs per euro

Malta
  euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.6795 (January 2008), Maltese
  liri per US dollar - 0.3106 (2007), 0.37 (2006), 0.34578 (2005),
  0.34466 (2004), 0.37723 (2003)

Marshall Islands
  the US dollar is used

Mauritania
  ouguiyas (MRO) per US dollar - NA (2007), 271.3 (2006),
  267.04 (2005), 265.8 (2004), 263.03 (2003)

Mauritius
  Mauritian rupees (MUR) per US dollar - 31.798 (2007),
  31.656 (2006), 29.496 (2005), 27.499 (2004), 27.902 (2003)

Mayotte
  euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006),
  0.8041 (2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)

Mexico
  Mexican pesos (MXN) per US dollar - 10.8 (2007), 10.899
  (2006), 10.898 (2005), 11.286 (2004), 10.789 (2003)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  the US dollar is used

Moldova
  Moldovan lei (MDL) per US dollar - 12.177 (2007), 13.131
  (2006), 12.6 (2005), 12.33 (2004), 13.945 (2003)

Monaco
  euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006),
  0.8041 (2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)

Mongolia
  togrog/tugriks (MNT) per US dollar - 1,170 (2007), 1,179.6
  (2006), 1,205 (2005), 1,185.3 (2004), 1,146.5 (2003)

Montenegro
  euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006),
  0.8041 (2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)

Montserrat
  East Caribbean dollars (XCD) per US dollar - 2.7 (2007),
  2.7 (2006), 2.7 (2005), 2.7 (2004), 2.7 (2003)
  note: fixed rate since 1976

Morocco
  Moroccan dirhams (MAD) per US dollar - 8.3563 (2007), 8.7722
  (2006), 8.865 (2005), 8.868 (2004), 9.574 (2003)

Mozambique
  meticais (MZM) per US dollar - 26.264 (2007), 25.4
  (2006), 23,061 (2005), 22,581 (2004), 23,782 (2003)
  note: in 2006 Mozambique revalued its currency, with 1000 old
  meticais equal to 1 new meticais

Namibia
  Namibian dollars (NAD) per US dollar - 7.18 (2007), 6.7649
  (2006), 6.3593 (2005), 6.4597 (2004), 7.5648 (2003)

Nauru
  Australian dollars (AUD) per US dollar - 1.2137 (2007), 1.3285
  (2006), 1.3095 (2005), 1.3598 (2004), 1.5419 (2003)

Nepal
  Nepalese rupees (NPR) per US dollar - NA (2007), 72.446
  (2006), 72.16 (2005), 73.674 (2004), 76.141 (2003)

Netherlands
  euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964
  (2006), 0.8041 (2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)

Netherlands Antilles
  Netherlands Antillean guilders (ANG) per US
  dollar - NA (2007), 1.79 (2006), 1.79 (2005), 1.79 (2004), 1.79
  (2003)

New Caledonia
  Comptoirs Francais du Pacifique francs (XPF) per US
  dollar - 87.59 (2007), 95.025 (2006), 95.89 (2005), 96.04 (2004),
  105.66 (2003)

New Zealand
  New Zealand dollars (NZD) per US dollar - 1.3811 (2007),
  1.5408 (2006), 1.4203 (2005), 1.5087 (2004), 1.7221 (2003)

Nicaragua
  gold cordobas (NIO) per US dollar - 18.457 (2007), 17.582
  (2006), 16.733 (2005), 15.937 (2004), 15.105 (2003)

Niger
  Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US dollar -
  493.51 (2007), 522.59 (2006), 527.47 (2005), 528.29 (2004), 581.2
  (2003)
  note: since 1 January 1999, the XOF franc has been pegged to the
  euro at a rate of 655.957 XOF francs per euro

Nigeria
  nairas (NGN) per US dollar - 127.46 (2007), 127.38 (2006),
  132.59 (2005), 132.89 (2004), 129.22 (2003)

Niue
  New Zealand dollars (NZD) per US dollar - 1.3811 (2007), 1.5408
  (2006), 1.4203 (2005), 1.5087 (2004), 1.7221 (2003)

Norfolk Island
  Australian dollars (AUD) per US dollar - 1.2137
  (2007), 1.3285 (2006), 1.3095 (2005), 1.3598 (2004), 1.5419 (2003)

Northern Mariana Islands
  the US dollar is used

Norway
  Norwegian kroner (NOK) per US dollar - 5.8396 (2007), 6.4117
  (2006), 6.4425 (2005), 6.7408 (2004), 7.0802 (2003)

Oman
  Omani rials (OMR) per US dollar - 0.3845 (2007), 0.3845 (2006),
  0.3845 (2005), 0.3845 (2004), 0.3845 (2003)

Pakistan
  Pakistani rupees (PKR) per US dollar - 60.6295 (2007),
  60.35 (2006), 59.515 (2005), 58.258 (2004), 57.752 (2003)

Palau
  the US dollar is used

Panama
  balboas (PAB) per US dollar - 1 (2007), 1 (2006), 1 (2005), 1
  (2004), 1 (2003)

Papua New Guinea
  kina (PGK) per US dollar - 3.03 (2007), 3.0643
  (2006), 3.08 (2005), 3.2225 (2004), 3.5635 (2003)

Paraguay
  guarani (PYG) per US dollar - 5,031 (2007), 5,672.8 (2006),
  6,178 (2005), 5,974.6 (2004), 6,424.3 (2003)

Peru
  nuevo sol (PEN) per US dollar - 3.1731 (2007), 3.2742 (2006),
  3.2958 (2005), 3.4132 (2004), 3.4785 (2003)

Philippines
  Philippine pesos (PHP) per US dollar - 46.148 (2007),
  51.246 (2006), 55.086 (2005), 56.04 (2004), 54.203 (2003)

Pitcairn Islands
  New Zealand dollars (NZD) per US dollar - 1.3811
  (2007), 1.5408 (2006), 1.4203 (2005), 1.5087 (2004), 1.7221 (2003)

Poland
  zlotych (PLN) per US dollar - 2.81 (2007), 3.1032 (2006),
  3.2355 (2005), 3.6576 (2004), 3.8891 (2003)
  note: zlotych is the plural form of zloty

Portugal
  euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006),
  0.8041 (2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)

Puerto Rico
  the US dollar is used

Qatar
  Qatari rials (QAR) per US dollar - 3.64 (2007), 3.64 (2006),
  3.64 (2005), 3.64 (2004), 3.64 (2003)

Romania
  lei (RON) per US dollar - 2.43 (2007), 2.809 (2006), 3
  (2005), 3 (2004), 3 (2003)

Russia
  Russian rubles (RUB) per US dollar - 25.659 (2007), 27.19
  (2006), 28.284 (2005), 28.814 (2004), 30.692 (2003)

Rwanda
  Rwandan francs (RWF) per US dollar - 585 (2007), 560 (2006),
  610 (2005), 574.62 (2004), 537.66 (2003)

Saint Barthelemy
  euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964
  (2006), 0.8041 (2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)

Saint Helena
  Saint Helenian pounds (SHP) per US dollar - 0.4993
  (2007), 0.5434 (2006), 0.5493 (2005), 0.5462 (2004), 0.6125 (2003)
  note: the Saint Helenian pound is on par with the British pound

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  East Caribbean dollars (XCD) per US dollar -
  2.7 (2007), 2.7 (2006), 2.7 (2005), 2.7 (2004), 2.7 (2003)

Saint Lucia
  East Caribbean dollars (XCD) per US dollar - 2.7 (2007),
  2.7 (2006), 2.7 (2005), 2.7 (2004), 2.7 (2003)

Saint Martin
  euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964
  (2006), 0.8041 (2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007),
  0.7964 (2006), 0.8041 (2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  East Caribbean dollars (XCD) per US
  dollar - 2.7 (2007), 2.7 (2006), 2.7 (2005), 2.7 (2004), 2.7 (2003)

Samoa
  tala (SAT) per US dollar - NA (2007), 2.7594 (2006), 2.7103
  (2005), 2.7807 (2004), 2.9732 (2003)

San Marino
  euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006),
  0.8041 (2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)

Sao Tome and Principe
  dobras (STD) per US dollar - 13,700 (2007),
  12,050 (2006), 9,900.4 (2005), 9,902.3 (2004), 9,347.6 (2003)

Saudi Arabia
  Saudi riyals (SAR) per US dollar - 3.745 (2007), 3.745
  (2006), 3.747 (2005), 3.75 (2004), 3.75 (2003)

Senegal
  Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US dollar -
  481.83 (2007), 522.89 (2006), 527.47 (2005), 528.29 (2004), 581.2
  (2003)
  note: since 1 January 1999, the XOF franc has been pegged to the
  euro at a rate of 655.957 XOF francs per euro

Serbia
  Serbian dinars (RSD) per US dollar - 54.5 (2007), 59.98 (2006)

Seychelles
  Seychelles rupees (SCR) per US dollar - 6.5 (2007), 5.5
  (2006), 5.5 (2005), 5.5 (2004), 5.4007 (2003)

Sierra Leone
  leones (SLL) per US dollar - NA (2007), 2,961.7 (2006),
  2,889.6 (2005), 2,701.3 (2004), 2,347.9 (2003)

Singapore
  Singapore dollars (SGD) per US dollar - 1.507 (2007),
  1.5889 (2006), 1.6644 (2005), 1.6902 (2004), 1.7422 (2003)

Slovakia
  Slovak koruny (SKK) per US dollar - 24.919 (2007), 29.611
  (2006), 31.018 (2005), 32.257 (2004), 36.773 (2003)

Slovenia
  euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), tolars per US
  dollar - 190.85 (2006), 192.71 (2005), 192.38 (2004), 207.11 (2003)
  note: Slovenia adopted the euro as its currency on 1 January 2007

Solomon Islands
  Solomon Islands dollars (SBD) per US dollar - NA
  (2007), 7.3447 (2006), 7.5299 (2005), 7.4847 (2004), 7.5059 (2003)

Somalia
  Somali shillings (SOS) per US dollar - NA (2007), 1,438.3
  (2006) official rate; the unofficial black market rate was about
  23,000 shillings per dollar as of February 2007
  note: the Republic of Somaliland, a self-declared independent
  country not recognized by any foreign government, issues its own
  currency, the Somaliland shilling

South Africa
  rand (ZAR) per US dollar - 7.05 (2007), 6.7649 (2006),
  6.3593 (2005), 6.4597 (2004), 7.5648 (2003)

Spain
  euros (EUR) per US dollar - 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006),
  0.8041 (2005), 0.8054 (2004), 0.886 (2003)

Sri Lanka
  Sri Lankan rupees (LKR) per US dollar - 110.78 (2007),
  103.99 (2006), 100.498 (2005), 101.194 (2004), 96.521 (2003)

Sudan
  Sudanese pounds (SDG) per US dollar - 2.06 (2007), 2.172
  (2006), 2.4361 (2005), 2.5791 (2004), 2.6098 (2003)
  note: in October 2007 Sudan redenominated its currency by
  transforming 100 units of Sudanese dinar into one unit of Sudanese
  pound

Suriname
  Surinamese dollars (SRD) per US dollar - 2.745 (2007),
  2.745 (2006), 2.7317 (2005), 2.7336 (2004), 2.6013 (2003)
  note: in January 2004, the government replaced the guilder with the
  Surinamese dollar, tied to a US dollar-dominated currency basket

Svalbard
  Norwegian kroner (NOK) per US dollar - 5.8396 (2007),
  6.4117 (2006), 6.4425 (2005), 6.7408 (2004), 7.0802 (2003)

Swaziland
  emalangeni per US dollar - 7.4 (2007), 6.85 (2006), 6.3593
  (2005), 6.4597 (2004), 7.5648 (2003)

Sweden
  Swedish kronor (SEK) per US dollar - 6.7629 (2007), 7.3731
  (2006), 7.4731 (2005), 7.3489 (2004), 8.0863 (2003)

Switzerland
  Swiss francs (CHF) per US dollar - 1.1973 (2007), 1.2539
  (2006), 1.2452 (2005), 1.2435 (2004), 1.3467 (2003)

Syria
  Syrian pounds (SYP) per US dollar - 50.0085 (2007), 51.689
  (2006), 50 (2005), 48.5 (2004), 52.8 (2003)
  note: data for 2004-06 are the public sector rate; data for 2002-03
  are the parallel market rate in 'Amman and Beirut; the official rate
  for repaying loans was 11.25 Syrian pounds per US dollars during
  2004-06,

Taiwan
  New Taiwan dollars (TWD) per US dollar - 32.84 (2007), 32.534
  (2006), 31.71 (2005), 34.418 (2004), 34.575 (2003)

Tajikistan
  Tajikistani somoni (TJS) per US dollar - 3.4418 (2007),
  3.3 (2006), 3.1166 (2005), 2.9705 (2004), 3.0614 (2003)

Tanzania
  Tanzanian shillings (TZS) per US dollar - 1,255 (2007),
  1,251.9 (2006), 1,128.93 (2005), 1,089.33 (2004), 1,038.42 (2003)

Thailand
  baht per US dollar - 33.599 (2007), 37.882 (2006), 40.22
  (2005), 40.222 (2004), 41.485 (2003)

Timor-Leste
  the US dollar is used

Togo
  Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US dollar -
  482.71 (2007), 522.59 (2006), 527.47 (2005), 528.29 (2004), 581.2
  (2003)
  note: since 1 January 1999, the XOF franc has been pegged to the
  euro at a rate of 655.957 XOF francs per euro

Tokelau
  New Zealand dollars (NZD) per US dollar - 1.3811 (2007),
  1.5408 (2006), 1.4203 (2005), 1.5087 (2004), 1.7221 (2003)

Tonga
  pa'anga (TOP) per US dollar - NA (2007), 2.0277 (2006), 1.96
  (2005), 1.9716 (2004), 2.142 (2003)

Trinidad and Tobago
  Trinidad and Tobago dollars (TTD) per US dollar
  - 6.3275 (2007), 6.3107 (2006), 6.2842 (2005), 6.299 (2004), 6.2951
  (2003)

Tunisia
  Tunisian dinars (TND) per US dollar - 1.2776 (2007), 1.331
  (2006), 1.2974 (2005), 1.2455 (2004), 1.2885 (2003)

Turkey
  Turkish liras (TRY) per US dollar - 1.319 (2007), 1.4286
  (2006), 1.3436 (2005), 1.4255 (2004), 1.5009 (2003)
  note: on 1 January 2005 the old Turkish lira (TRL) was converted to
  new Turkish lira (TRY) at a rate of 1,000,000 old to 1 new Turkish
  lira

Turkmenistan
  Turkmen manat (TMM) per US dollar - 6,250 (2007)
  official rate
  note: the commercial rate was 19,800 Turkemen manat per US$ (2007)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  the US dollar is used

Tuvalu
  Tuvaluan dollars or Australian dollars (AUD) per US dollar -
  1.2137 (2007), 1.3285 (2006), 1.3095 (2005), 1.3598 (2004), 1.5419
  (2003)

Uganda
  Ugandan shillings (UGX) per US dollar - 1,685.8 (2007),
  1,834.9 (2006), 1,780.7 (2005), 1,810.3 (2004), 1,963.7 (2003)

Ukraine
  hryvnia (UAH) per US dollar - 5.05 (2007), 5.05 (2006),
  5.1247 (2005), 5.3192 (2004), 5.3327 (2003)

United Arab Emirates
  Emirati dirhams (AED) per US dollar - 3.673
  (2007), 3.673 (2006), 3.6725 (2005), 3.6725 (2004), 3.6725 (2003)
  note: officially pegged to the US dollar since February 2002

United Kingdom
  British pounds (GBP) per US dollar - 0.4993 (2007),
  0.5418 (2006), 0.5493 (2005), 0.5462 (2004), 0.6125 (2003)

United States
  British pounds per US dollar: 0.4993 (2007), 0.5418
  (2006), 0.5493 (2005), 0.5462 (2004), 0.6125 (2003)
  Canadian dollars per US dollar: 1.0724 (2007), 1.1334 (2006), 1.2118
  (2005), 1.3010 (2004), 1.4011 (2003)
  Japanese yen per US dollar: 117.99 (2007), 116.18 (2006) 110.22
  (2005), 108.19 (2004), 115.93 (2003)
  euros per US dollar: 0.7345 (2007), 0.7964 (2006), 0.8041 (2005),
  0.8054 (2004), 0.8860 (2003)
  Chinese yuan per US dollar: 7.61 (2007), 7.97 (2006), 8.1943 (2005),
  8.2768 (2004), 8.2770 (2003)

Uruguay
  Uruguayan pesos (UYU) per US dollar - 23.947 (2007), 24.048
  (2006), 24.479 (2005), 28.704 (2004), 28.209 (2003)

Uzbekistan
  Uzbekistani soum (UZS) per US dollar - 1,263.8 (2007),
  1,219.8 (2006), 1,020 (2005), 971.265 (2004), 771.029 (2003)

Vanuatu
  vatu (VUV) per US dollar - NA (2007), 111.93 (2006), NA
  (2005), 111.79 (2004), 122.19 (2003)

Venezuela
  bolivars (VEB) per US dollar - 2,147 (2007), 2,147 (2006),
  2,089.8 (2005), 1,891.3 (2004), 1,607 (2003)
  note: On 1 January 2008 Venezuela revalued its currency with 1000
  old bolivares equal to 1 new bolivar

Vietnam
  dong (VND) per US dollar - 16,119 (2007), 15,983 (2006),
  15,746 (2005), NA (2004), 15,510 (2003)

Virgin Islands
  the US dollar is used

Wallis and Futuna
  Comptoirs Francais du Pacifique francs (XPF) per
  US dollar - NA (2007), 95.03 (2006), 95.89 (2005), 96.04 (2004),
  105.66 (2003)

West Bank
  new Israeli shekels (ILS) per US dollar - 4.14 (2007),
  4.4565 (2006), 4.4877 (2005), 4.482 (2004), 4.5541 (2003)

Western Sahara
  Moroccan dirhams (MAD) per US dollar - 8.3563 (2007),
  8.7722 (2006), 8.865 (2005), 8.868 (2004), 9.5744 (2003)

Yemen
  Yemeni rials (YER) per US dollar - 199.14 (2007), 197.18
  (2006), 192.67 (2005), 184.78 (2004), 183.45 (2003)

Zambia
  Zambian kwacha (ZMK) per US dollar - 3,990.2 (2007), 3,601.5
  (2006), 4,463.5 (2005), 4,778.9 (2004), 4,733.3 (2003)

Zimbabwe
  Zimbabwean dollars (ZWD) per US dollar - 30,000 (2007),
  162.07 (2006), 77.965 (2005), 5.729 (2004), 0.824 (2003)
  note: these are official exchange rates; non-official rates vary
  significantly

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2077  Executive branch


Afghanistan
  chief of state: President of the Islamic Republic of
  Afghanistan Hamid KARZAI (since 7 December 2004); Vice Presidents
  Ahmad Zia MASOOD and Abdul Karim KHALILI (since 7 December 2004);
  note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government; former King ZAHIR Shah held the honorific, "Father of
  the Country," and presided symbolically over certain occasions but
  lacked any governing authority; the honorific is not hereditary;
  King ZAHIR Shah died on 23 July 2007
  head of government: President of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
  Hamid KARZAI (since 7 December 2004); Vice Presidents Ahmad Zia
  MASOOD and Abdul Karim KHALILI (since 7 December 2004)
  cabinet: 25 ministers; note - under the new constitution, ministers
  are appointed by the president and approved by the National Assembly
  elections: the president and two vice presidents are elected by
  direct vote for a five-year term (eligible for a second term); if no
  candidate receives 50% or more of the vote in the first round of
  voting, the two candidates with the most votes will participate in a
  second round; a president can only be elected for two terms;
  election last held 9 October 2004 (next to be held in 2009)
  election results: Hamid KARZAI elected president; percent of vote -
  Hamid KARZAI 55.4%, Yunus QANUNI 16.3%, Ustad Mohammad MOHAQQEQ
  11.6%, Abdul Rashid DOSTAM 10.0%, Abdul Latif PEDRAM 1.4%, Masooda
  JALAL 1.2%

Akrotiri
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952)
  head of government: Administrator Air Vice-Marshal Richard LACEY
  (since 26 April 2006); note - reports to the British Ministry of
  Defense
  elections: none; the monarch is hereditary; the administrator is
  appointed by the monarch

Albania
  chief of state: President of the Republic Bamir TOPI (since
  24 July 2007)
  head of government: Prime Minister Sali BERISHA (since 10 September
  2005)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers proposed by the prime minister,
  nominated by the president, and approved by parliament
  elections: president elected by the People's Assembly for a
  five-year term (eligible for a second term); four election rounds
  held between 8 and 20 July 2007 (next election to be held in 2012);
  prime minister appointed by the president
  election results: Bamir TOPI elected president; People's Assembly
  vote, fourth round (three-fifths majority (84 votes) required):
  Bamir TOPI 85 votes, Neritan CEKA 5 votes

Algeria
  chief of state: President Abdelaziz BOUTEFLIKA (since 28
  April 1999)
  head of government: Prime Minister Ahmed OUYAHIA (since 23 June 2008)
  cabinet: Cabinet of Ministers appointed by the president
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (eligible for a third term under 2008 amendment to constitution);
  election last held 8 April 2004 (next to be held in April 2009);
  prime minister appointed by the president
  election results: Abdelaziz BOUTEFLIKA reelected president for
  second term; percent of vote - Abdelaziz BOUTEFLIKA 85%, Ali BENFLIS
  6.4%, Abdellah DJABALLAH 5%

American Samoa
  chief of state: President George W. BUSH of the US
  (since 20 January 2001); Vice President Richard B. CHENEY (since 20
  January 2001)
  head of government: Governor Togiola TULAFONO (since 7 April 2003)
  cabinet: Cabinet made up of 12 department directors
  elections: under the US Constitution, residents of unincorporated
  territories, such as American Samoa, do not vote in elections for US
  president and vice president; however, they may vote in Democratic
  and Republican presidential primary elections; governor and
  lieutenant governor elected on the same ticket by popular vote for
  four-year terms (eligible for a second term); election last held 4
  and 18 November 2008 (next to be held in November 2012)
  election results: Togiola TULAFONO reelected governor; percent of
  vote - Togiola TULAFONO 56.5%, Afoa Moega LUTU 43.5%

Andorra
  chief of state: French Coprince Nicolas SARKOZY (since 16
  May 2007); represented by Philippe MASSONI (since 26 July 2002) and
  Spanish Coprince Bishop Joan Enric VIVES i SICILIA (since 12 May
  2003); represented by Nemesi MARQUES i OSTE (since 30 July 2003)
  head of government: Executive Council President Albert PINTAT
  SANTOLARIA (since 27 May 2005)
  cabinet: Executive Council or Govern designated by the Executive
  Council president
  elections: Executive Council president elected by the General
  Council and formally appointed by the coprinces for a four-year
  term; election last held 24 April 2005 (next to be held in April-May
  2009)
  election results: Albert PINTAT SANTOLARIA elected executive council
  president; percent of General Council vote - NA

Angola
  chief of state: President Jose Eduardo DOS SANTOS (since 21
  September 1979); note - the president is both chief of state and
  head of government
  head of government: President Jose Eduardo DOS SANTOS (since 21
  September 1979); Antonio Paulo KASSOMA was named prime minister by
  MPLA on 26 September 2008
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
  elections: president elected by universal ballot for a five-year
  term (eligible for a second consecutive or discontinuous term) under
  the 1992 constitution; President DOS SANTOS originally elected (in
  1979) without opposition under a one-party system and stood for
  reelection in Angola's first multiparty elections 29-30 September
  1992 (next to be held in 2009)
  election results: Jose Eduardo DOS SANTOS 49.6%, Jonas SAVIMBI
  40.1%, making a run-off election necessary; the run-off was not held
  because SAVIMBI's National Union for the Total Independence of
  Angola (UNITA) repudiated the results of the first election; the
  civil war resumed leaving DOS SANTOS in his current position as the
  president

Anguilla
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
  represented by Governor Andrew N. GEORGE (since 10 July 2006)
  head of government: Chief Minister Osbourne FLEMING (since 3 March
  2000)
  cabinet: Executive Council appointed by the governor from among the
  elected members of the House of Assembly
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor appointed by the
  monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the majority
  party or the leader of the majority coalition is usually appointed
  chief minister by the governor

Antigua and Barbuda
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
  February 1952); represented by Governor General Louisse LAKE-TACK
  (since 17 July 2007)
  head of government: Prime Minister Winston Baldwin SPENCER (since 24
  March 2004)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the governor general on
  the advice of the prime minister
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor general chosen by the
  monarch on the advice of the prime minister; following legislative
  elections, the leader of the majority party or the leader of the
  majority coalition is usually appointed prime minister by the
  governor general

Argentina
  chief of state: President Cristina FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER
  (since 10 December 2007); Vice President Julio COBOS (since 10
  December 2007); note - the president is both the chief of state and
  head of government
  head of government: President Cristina FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER (since
  10 December 2007); Vice President Julio COBOS (since 10 December
  2007)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president
  elections: president and vice president elected on the same ticket
  by popular vote for four-year terms (eligible for a second term);
  election last held 28 October 2007 (next election to be held in 2011)
  election results: Cristina FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER elected president;
  percent of vote - Cristina FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER 45%, Elisa CARRIO
  23%, Roberto LAVAGNA 17%, Alberto Rodriguez SAA 8%

Armenia
  chief of state: President Serzh SARGSIAN (since 9 April 2008)
  head of government: Prime Minister Tigran SARGSIAN (since 9 April
  2008)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 19 February 2008
  (next to be held February 2013); prime minister appointed by the
  president based on majority or plurality support in parliament; the
  prime minister and Council of Ministers must resign if the National
  Assembly refuses to accept their program
  election results: Serzh SARGSIAN elected president; percent of vote
  - Serzh SARGSIAN 52.9%, Levon TER-PETROSSIAN 21.5%, Artur
  BAGHDASARIAN 16.7%

Aruba
  chief of state: Queen BEATRIX of the Netherlands (since 30
  April 1980); represented by Governor General Fredis REFUNJOL (since
  11 May 2004)
  head of government: Prime Minister Nelson O. ODUBER (since 30
  October 2001)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers elected by the Staten
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor general appointed for
  a six-year term by the monarch; prime minister and deputy prime
  minister elected by the Staten for four-year terms; election last
  held in 2005 (next to be held by 2009)
  election results: Nelson O. ODUBER elected prime minister; percent
  of legislative vote - NA

Australia
  chief of state: Queen of Australia ELIZABETH II (since 6
  February 1952); represented by Governor General Quentin BRYCE (since
  5 September 2008)
  head of government: Prime Minister Kevin RUDD (since 3 December
  2007); Deputy Prime Minister Julia GILLARD (since 3 December 2007)
  cabinet: prime minister nominates, from among members of Parliament,
  candidates who are subsequently sworn in by the governor general to
  serve as government ministers
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor general appointed by
  the monarch on the recommendation of the prime minister; following
  legislative elections, the leader of the majority party or leader of
  a majority coalition is sworn in as prime minister by the governor
  general

Austria
  chief of state: President Heinz FISCHER (SPOe) (since 8 July
  2004)
  head of government: Chancellor Werner FAYMANN (SPOe) (since 2
  December 2008); Vice Chancellor Josef PROELL (OeVP) (since 2
  December 2008)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers chosen by the president on the advice
  of the chancellor
  elections: president elected by direct popular vote for a six-year
  term (eligible for a second term); presidential election last held
  25 April 2004 (next to be held in April 2010); chancellor formally
  chosen by the president but determined by the coalition parties
  forming a parliamentary majority; vice chancellor chosen by the
  president on the advice of the chancellor
  election results: Heinz FISCHER elected president; percent of vote -
  Heinz FISCHER 52.4%, Benita FERRERO-WALDNER 47.6%
  note: government coalition - SPOe and OeVP

Azerbaijan
  chief of state: President Ilham ALIYEV (since 31 October
  2003)
  head of government: Prime Minister Artur RASIZADE (since 4 November
  2003); First Deputy Prime Minister Yaqub EYYUBOV (since June 2006)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president and
  confirmed by the National Assembly
  elections: president elected by popular vote to a five-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 15 October 2008
  (next to be held in October 2013); prime minister and first deputy
  prime minister appointed by the president and confirmed by the
  National Assembly
  election results: Ilham ALIYEV reelected president; percent of vote
  - Ilham ALIYEV 88.7%, Igbal AGHAZADE 2.9%, five other candidates
  with smaller percentages
  note: several political parties boycotted the election due to unfair
  conditions; OSCE observers concluded that the election did not meet
  international standards

Bahamas, The
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February
  1952); represented by Governor General Arthur D. HANNA (since 1
  February 2006)
  head of government: Prime Minister Hubert A. INGRAHAM (since 4 May
  2007)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the prime
  minister's recommendation
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor general appointed by
  the monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the
  majority party or the leader of the majority coalition is usually
  appointed prime minister by the governor general; the prime minister
  recommends the deputy prime minister

Bahrain
  chief of state: King HAMAD bin Isa al-Khalifa (since 6 March
  1999); Heir Apparent Crown Prince SALMAN bin Hamad (son of the
  monarch, born 21 October 1969)
  head of government: Prime Minister KHALIFA bin Salman al-Khalifa
  (since 1971); Deputy Prime Ministers ALI bin Khalifa bin Salman
  al-Khalifa, MUHAMMAD bin Mubarak al-Khalifa, Jawad al-ARAIDH
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the monarch
  elections: the monarchy is hereditary; prime minister appointed by
  the monarch

Bangladesh
  chief of state: President Iajuddin AHMED (since 6
  September 2002)
  note: the country has a caretaker government until a general
  election is held; Iajuddin AHMED remains as President and Minister
  of Defense, and all other Cabinet portfolios are held by Caretaker
  Advisers (CAs); the Chief CA, Fakhruddin AHMED, is roughly
  equivalent to a prime minister
  elections: president elected by National Parliament for a five-year
  term (eligible for a second term); election scheduled for 16
  September 2002 was not held since Iajuddin AHMED was the only
  presidential candidate; he was sworn in on 6 September 2002 (next
  election NA); following legislative elections, the leader of the
  party that wins the most seats is usually appointed prime minister
  by the president
  election results: Iajuddin AHMED declared president-elect by the
  Election Commission; he ran unopposed as president; percent of
  National Parliament vote - NA

Barbados
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
  represented by Governor General Sir Clifford Straughn HUSBANDS
  (since 1 June 1996)
  head of government: Prime Minister David THOMPSON (since 16 January
  2008)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the advice of
  the prime minister
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor general appointed by
  the monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the
  majority party or the leader of the majority coalition is usually
  appointed prime minister by the governor general; the prime minister
  recommends the deputy prime minister

Belarus
  chief of state: President Aleksandr LUKASHENKO (since 20
  July 1994)
  head of government: Prime Minister Sergey SIDORSKIY (since 19
  December 2003); First Deputy Prime Minister Vladimir SEMASHKO (since
  December 2003)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  first election took place 23 June and 10 July 1994; according to the
  1994 constitution, the next election should have been held in 1999,
  however, Aleksandr LUKASHENKO extended his term to 2001 via a
  November 1996 referendum; subsequent election held 9 September 2001;
  an October 2004 referendum ended presidential term limits and
  allowed the president to run in a third election, which was held on
  19 March 2006; prime minister and deputy prime ministers appointed
  by the president
  election results: Aleksandr LUKASHENKO reelected president; percent
  of vote - Aleksandr LUKASHENKO 82.6%, Aleksandr MILINKEVICH 6%,
  Aleksandr KOZULIN 2.3%; note - election marred by electoral fraud

Belgium
  chief of state: King ALBERT II (since 9 August 1993); Heir
  Apparent Prince PHILIPPE, son of the monarch
  head of government: Prime Minister Yves LETERME (20 March 2008)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers are formally appointed by the monarch
  elections: the monarchy is hereditary and constitutional; following
  legislative elections, the leader of the majority party or the
  leader of the majority coalition is usually appointed prime minister
  by the monarch and then approved by parliament

Belize
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
  represented by Governor General Sir Colville YOUNG, Sr. (since 17
  November 1993)
  head of government: Prime Minister Dean BARROW (since 8 February
  2008); Deputy Prime Minister Gaspar VEGA (since 12 February 2008)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the advice of
  the prime minister
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor general appointed by
  the monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the
  majority party or the leader of the majority coalition is usually
  appointed prime minister by the governor general; prime minister
  recommends the deputy prime minister

Benin
  chief of state: President Thomas YAYI Boni (since 6 April
  2006); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government
  head of government: President Thomas YAYI Boni (since 6 April 2006)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (eligible for a second term); runoff election held 19 March 2006
  (next to be held in March 2011)
  election results: Thomas YAYI Boni elected president; percent of
  vote - Thomas YAYI Boni 74.5%, Adrien HOUNGBEDJI 25.5%

Bermuda
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
  represented by Governor Sir Richard GOZNEY (since 12 December 2007)
  head of government: Premier Ewart BROWN (since 30 October 2006);
  Deputy Premier Paula COX
  cabinet: Cabinet nominated by the premier, appointed by the governor
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor appointed by the
  monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the majority
  party or the leader of the majority coalition is usually appointed
  premier by the governor

Bhutan
  chief of state: King Jigme Khesar Namgyel WANGCHUCK (since 14
  December 2006); note - King Jigme Singye WANGCHUCK abdicated the
  throne on 14 December 2006 and his son immediately succeeded him
  head of government: Prime Minister Jigme THINLEY (since 9 April 2008)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers (Lhengye Shungtsog) nominated by the
  monarch, approved by the National Assembly; members serve fixed,
  five-year terms; note - there is also a Royal Advisory Council
  (Lodoi Tsokde), members nominated by the monarch
  elections: the monarch is hereditary, but democratic reforms in July
  1998 grant the National Assembly authority to remove the monarch
  with two-thirds vote; election of a new National Assembly occurred
  in March 2008; the leader of the majority party is nominated as the
  prime minister

Bolivia
  chief of state: President Juan Evo MORALES Ayma (since 22
  January 2006); Vice President Alvaro GARCIA Linera (since 22 January
  2006); note - the president is both chief of state and head of
  government
  head of government: President Juan Evo MORALES Ayma (since 22
  January 2006); Vice President Alvaro GARCIA Linera (since 22 January
  2006)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president
  elections: president and vice president elected on the same ticket
  by popular vote for a single five-year term; election last held 18
  December 2005 (next to be held in 2010)
  election results: Juan Evo MORALES Ayma elected president; percent
  of vote - Juan Evo MORALES Ayma 53.7%; Jorge Fernando QUIROGA
  Ramirez 28.6%; Samuel DORIA MEDINA Arana 7.8%; Michiaki NAGATANI
  Morishit 6.5%; Felipe QUISPE Huanca 2.2%; Guildo ANGULA Cabrera 0.7%

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  chief of state: Chairman of the Presidency
  Nebojsa RADMANOVIC (chairman since 6 November 2008; presidency
  member since 1 October 2006 - Serb); other members of the
  three-member presidency rotating (every eight months): Haris
  SILAJDZIC (presidency member since 1 October 2006 - Bosniak); and
  Zeljko KOMSIC (presidency member since 1 October 2006 - Croat)
  head of government: Chairman of the Council of Ministers Nikola
  SPIRIC (since 11 January 2007)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers nominated by the council chairman;
  approved by the National House of Representatives
  elections: the three members of the presidency (one Bosniak, one
  Croat, one Serb) are elected by popular vote for a four-year term
  (eligible for a second term, but then ineligible for four years);
  the chairmanship rotates every eight months and resumes where it
  left off following each national election; election last held 1
  October 2006 (next to be held in 2010); the chairman of the Council
  of Ministers is appointed by the presidency and confirmed by the
  National House of Representatives
  election results: percent of vote - Nebojsa RADMANOVIC with 53.3% of
  the votes for the Serb seat; Zeljko KOMSIC received 39.6% of the
  votes for the Croat seat; Haris SILAJDZIC received 62.8% of the
  votes for the Bosniak seat
  note: President of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina: Borjana
  KRISTO (since 21 February 2007); Vice Presidents Spomenka MICIC
  (since NA 2007) and Mirsad KEBO (since NA 2007); President of the
  Republika Srpska: Rajko KUSMANOVIC (since 28 December 2007)

Botswana
  chief of state: President Seretse Khama Ian KHAMA (since 1
  April 2008); Vice President Mompati MERAFHE (since 1 April 2008);
  note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government
  head of government: President Seretse Khama Ian KHAMA (since 1 April
  2008); Vice President Mompati MERAFHE (since 1 April 2008)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president
  elections: president indirectly elected for a five-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 20 October 2004
  (next to be held in October 2009); vice president appointed by the
  president
  election results: Festus G. MOGAE elected president; percent of
  National Assembly vote - 52%

Brazil
  chief of state: President Luiz Inacio "LULA" DA SILVA (since
  1 January 2003); Vice President Jose ALENCAR (since 1 January 2003);
  note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government
  head of government: President Luiz Inacio "LULA" DA SILVA (since 1
  January 2003); Vice President Jose ALENCAR (since 1 January 2003)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president
  elections: president and vice president elected on the same ticket
  by popular vote for a single four-year term; election last held 1
  October 2006 with runoff 29 October 2006 (next to be held 3 October
  2010 and, if necessary, 31 October 2010)
  election results: Luiz Inacio "LULA" DA SILVA (PT) reelected
  president - 60.83%, Geraldo ALCKMIN (PSDB) 39.17%

British Indian Ocean Territory
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II
  (since 6 February 1952)
  head of government: Commissioner Colin ROBERTS (since July 2008);
  Administrator Joanne YEADON (since December 2007); note - both
  reside in the UK and are represented by the officer commanding
  British Forces on Diego Garcia
  cabinet: NA
  elections: none; the monarch is hereditary; commissioner and
  administrator appointed by the monarch

British Virgin Islands
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
  February 1952); represented by Governor David PEAREY (since 18 April
  2006)
  head of government: Premier Ralph T. O'NEAL (since 23 August 2007)
  cabinet: Executive Council appointed by the governor from members of
  the House of Assembly
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor appointed by the
  monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the majority
  party or the leader of the majority coalition is usually appointed
  premier by the governor

Brunei
  chief of state: Sultan and Prime Minister Sir HASSANAL
  Bolkiah (since 5 October 1967); note - the monarch is both the chief
  of state and head of government
  head of government: Sultan and Prime Minister Sir HASSANAL Bolkiah
  (since 5 October 1967)
  cabinet: Council of Cabinet Ministers appointed and presided over by
  the monarch; deals with executive matters; note - there is also a
  Religious Council (members appointed by the monarch) that advises on
  religious matters, a Privy Council (members appointed by the
  monarch) that deals with constitutional matters, and the Council of
  Succession (members appointed by the monarch) that determines the
  succession to the throne if the need arises
  elections: none; the monarch is hereditary

Bulgaria
  chief of state: President Georgi PARVANOV (since 22 January
  2002); Vice President Angel MARIN (since 22 January 2002)
  head of government: Prime Minister Sergei STANISHEV (since 16 August
  2005); Deputy Prime Ministers Ivaylo KALFIN, Daniel VULCHEV, and
  Emel ETEM (since 16 August 2005) and Meglena PLUGCHIEVA (since 25
  April 2008)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers nominated by the prime minister and
  elected by the National Assembly
  elections: president and vice president elected on the same ticket
  by popular vote for a five-year term (eligible for a second term);
  election last held 22 and 29 October 2006 (next to be held in 2011);
  chairman of the Council of Ministers (prime minister) nominated by
  the president and elected by the National Assembly; deputy prime
  ministers nominated by the prime minister and elected by the
  National Assembly
  election results: Georgi PARVANOV reelected president; percent of
  vote - Georgi PARVANOV 77.3%, Volen SIDEROV 22.7%; Sergei STANISHEV
  elected prime minister, result of legislative vote - 168 to 67

Burkina Faso
  chief of state: President Blaise COMPAORE (since 15
  October 1987)
  head of government: Prime Minister Tertius ZONGO (since 4 June 2007)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
  recommendation of the prime minister
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 13 November 2005
  (next to be held in 2010); in April 2000, the constitution was
  amended reducing the presidential term from seven to five years,
  enforceable as of 2005; prime minister appointed by the president
  with the consent of the legislature
  election results: Blaise COMPAORE reelected president; percent of
  popular vote - Blaise COMPAORE 80.3%, Benewende Stanislas SANKARA
  4.9%

Burma
  chief of state: Chairman of the State Peace and Development
  Council (SPDC) Sr. Gen. THAN SHWE (since 23 April 1992)
  head of government: Prime Minister, Lt. Gen THEIN SEIN (since 24
  October 2007)
  cabinet: Cabinet is overseen by SPDC; military junta assumed power
  18 September 1988 under name State Law and Order Restoration Council
  (SLORC)
  elections: none

Burundi
  chief of state: President Pierre NKURUNZIZA (since 26 August
  2005); First Vice President Yves SAVINGUVU - Tutsi (since 9 November
  2007); Second Vice President Gabriel NTISEZERANA - Hutu (since 9
  February 2007); note - the president is both the chief of state and
  head of government
  head of government: President Pierre NKURUNZIZA (since 26 August
  2005); First Vice President Yves SAVINGUVU - Tutsi (since 9 November
  2007); Second Vice President Gabriel NTISEZERANA - Hutu (since 9
  February 2007)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by president
  elections: the president is elected by popular vote to a five-year
  term (eligible for a second term); note - the constitution adopted
  in February 2005 permits the post-transition president to be elected
  by a two-thirds majority of the parliament; vice presidents
  nominated by the president, endorsed by parliament
  election results: Pierre NKURUNZIZA was elected president by the
  parliament by a vote of 151 to 9; note - the constitution adopted in
  February 2005 permits the post-transition president to be elected by
  a two-thirds majority of the legislature

Cambodia
  chief of state: King Norodom SIHAMONI (since 29 October
  2004)
  head of government: Prime Minister HUN SEN (since 14 January 1985)
  [co-prime minister from 1993 to 1997]; Permanent Deputy Prime
  Minister MEN SAM AN (since 25 September 2008); Deputy Prime
  Ministers SAR KHENG (since 3 February 1992); SOK AN, TEA BANH, HOR
  NAMHONG, NHEK BUNCHHAY (since 16 July 2004); BIN CHHIN (since 5
  September 2007); KEAT CHHON, YIM CHHAI LY (since 25 September 2008)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers in theory appointed by the monarch; in
  practice named by the prime minister
  elections: the monarch is chosen by a Royal Throne Council;
  following legislative elections, a member of the majority party or
  majority coalition is named prime minister by the Chairman of the
  National Assembly and appointed by the king

Cameroon
  chief of state: President Paul BIYA (since 6 November 1982)
  head of government: Prime Minister Ephraim INONI (since 8 December
  2004)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president from proposals submitted
  by the prime minister
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 11 October 2004
  (next to be held by October 2011); prime minister appointed by the
  president
  election results: President Paul BIYA reelected; percent of vote -
  Paul BIYA 70.9%, John FRU NDI 17.4%, Adamou Ndam NJOYA 4.5%, Garga
  Haman ADJI 3.7%

Canada
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
  represented by Governor General Michaelle JEAN (since 27 September
  2005)
  head of government: Prime Minister Stephen HARPER (since 6 February
  2006)
  cabinet: Federal Ministry chosen by the prime minister usually from
  among the members of his own party sitting in Parliament
  elections: the monarchy is hereditary; governor general appointed by
  the monarch on the advice of the prime minister for a five-year
  term; following legislative elections, the leader of the majority
  party or the leader of the majority coalition in the House of
  Commons is automatically designated prime minister by the governor
  general

Cape Verde
  chief of state: President Pedro Verona PIRES (since 22
  March 2001)
  head of government: Prime Minister Jose Maria Pereira NEVES (since 1
  February 2001)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
  recommendation of the prime minister
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 12 February 2006
  (next to be held in February 2011); prime minister nominated by the
  National Assembly and appointed by the president
  election results: Pedro PIRES reelected president; percent of vote -
  Pedro PIRES (PAICV) 51.2%, Carlos VIEGA (MPD) 48.8%

Cayman Islands
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February
  1952); represented by Governor Stuart JACK (since 23 November 2005)
  head of government: Leader of Government Business Kurt TIBBETTS
  (since 18 May 2005)
  cabinet: Executive Council (three members appointed by the governor,
  four members elected by the Legislative Assembly)
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; the governor is appointed by
  the monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the
  majority party or coalition is appointed by the governor Leader of
  Government Business

Central African Republic
  chief of state: President Francois BOZIZE
  (since 15 March 2003 coup)
  head of government: Prime Minister Faustin-Archange TOUADERA (since
  22 January 2008)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers
  elections: under the new constitution, the president elected to a
  five-year term (eligible for a second term); elections last held 13
  March and 8 May 2005 (next to be held in 2010); prime minister
  appointed by the political party with a parliamentary majority
  election results: Francois BOZIZE elected president; percent of
  second round balloting - Francois BOZIZE (KNK) 64.6%, Martin ZIGUELE
  (MLPC) 35.4%

Chad
  chief of state: President Lt. Gen. Idriss DEBY Itno (since 4
  December 1990)
  head of government: Prime Minister Youssof Saleh ABBAS (since 16
  April 2008)
  cabinet: Council of State, members appointed by the president on the
  recommendation of the prime minister
  elections: president elected by popular vote to serve five-year
  term; if no candidate receives at least 50% of the total vote, the
  two candidates receiving the most votes must stand for a second
  round of voting; last held 3 May 2006 (next to be held by May 2011);
  prime minister appointed by the president
  election results: Lt. Gen. Idriss DEBY Itno reelected president;
  percent of vote - Lt. Gen. Idriss DEBY 64.7%, Delwa Kassire
  KOUMAKOYE 15.1%, Albert Pahimi PADACKE 7.8%, Mahamat ABDOULAYE 7.1%,
  Brahim KOULAMALLAH 5.3%; note - a June 2005 national referendum
  altered the constitution removing presidential term limits and
  permitting Lt. Gen. Idriss DEBY Itno to run for reelection

Chile
  chief of state: President Michelle BACHELET Jeria (since 11
  March 2006); note - the president is both the chief of state and
  head of government
  head of government: President Michelle BACHELET Jeria (since 11
  March 2006)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a single four-year
  term; election last held 11 December 2005, with runoff election held
  15 January 2006 (next to be held in December 2009)
  election results: Michelle BACHELET Jeria elected president; percent
  of vote - Michelle BACHELET Jeria 53.5%; Sebastian PINERA Echenique
  46.5%

China
  chief of state: President HU Jintao (since 15 March 2003);
  Vice President XI Jinping (since 15 March 2008)
  head of government: Premier WEN Jiabao (since 16 March 2003);
  Executive Vice Premier LI Keqiang (17 March 2008), Vice Premier HUI
  Liangyu (since 17 March 2003), Vice Premier ZHANG Deijiang (since 17
  March 2008), and Vice Premier WANG Qishan (since 17 March 2008)
  cabinet: State Council appointed by National People's Congress (NPC)
  elections: president and vice president elected by National People's
  Congress for a five-year term (eligible for a second term);
  elections last held 15-17 March 2008 (next to be held in mid-March
  2013); premier nominated by president, confirmed by National
  People's Congress
  election results: HU Jintao elected president by National People's
  Congress with a total of 2,963 votes; XI Jinping elected vice
  president with a total of 2,919 votes

Christmas Island
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
  February 1952), represented by the Australian governor general
  head of government: Administrator Neil LUCAS (since 30 January 2006)
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; administrator appointed by the
  governor general of Australia and represents the monarch and
  Australia

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
  February 1952); represented by the Australian governor general
  head of government: Administrator (nonresident) Neil LUCAS (since 30
  January 2006)
  cabinet: NA
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; administrator appointed by the
  governor general of Australia and represents the monarch and
  Australia

Colombia
  chief of state: President Alvaro URIBE Velez (since 7
  August 2002); Vice President Francisco SANTOS (since 7 August 2002);
  note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government
  head of government: President Alvaro URIBE Velez (since 7 August
  2002); Vice President Francisco SANTOS (since 7 August 2002)
  cabinet: Cabinet consists of a coalition of the three largest
  parties that supported President URIBE's reelection - the PSUN, PC,
  and CR - and independents
  elections: president and vice president elected by popular vote for
  a four-year term (eligible for a second term); election last held 28
  May 2006 (next to be held in May 2010)
  election results: President Alvaro URIBE Velez reelected president;
  percent of vote - Alvaro URIBE Velez 62%, Carlos GAVIRIA Diaz 22%,
  Horacio SERPA Uribe 12%, other 4%

Comoros
  chief of state: President Ahmed Abdallah SAMBI (since 26 May
  2006)
  head of government: President Ahmed Abdallah SAMBI (since 26 May
  2006)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
  elections: as defined by the 2001 constitution, the presidency
  rotates every four years among the elected presidents from the three
  main islands in the Union; election last held 14 May 2006 (next to
  be held by May 2010); prime minister appointed by the president;
  note - the post of prime minister has been vacant since May 2002
  election results: Ahmed Abdallah SAMBI elected president; percent of
  vote - Ahmed Abdallah SAMBI 58.0%, Ibrahim HALIDI 28.3%, Mohamed
  DJAANFAMI 13.7%

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  chief of state: President Joseph
  KABILA (since 17 January 2001); note - following the assassination
  of his father, Joseph KABILA succeeded to the presidency which he
  retained through the 2003-06 transition; he was subsequently elected
  president in October 2006
  head of government: Prime Minister Adolphe MUZITO (since 10 October
  2008)
  cabinet: Ministers of State appointed by the president
  elections: under the new constitution the president is elected by
  popular vote for a five-year term (eligible for a second term);
  elections last held 30 July 2006 and 29 October 2006 (next to be
  held in 2011); prime minister appointed by the president
  election results: Joseph KABILA elected president; percent of vote
  (second round) - Joseph KABILA 58%, Jean-Pierre BEMBA Gombo 42%
  note: Joseph KABILA succeeded his father, Laurent Desire KABILA,
  following the latter's assassination in January 2001; negotiations
  with rebel leaders led to the establishment of a transitional
  government in July 2003 with free elections held on 30 July 2006 and
  29 October 2006 confirming Joseph KABILA as president

Congo, Republic of the
  chief of state: President Denis
  SASSOU-NGUESSO (since 25 October 1997, following the civil war in
  which he toppled elected president Pascal LISSOUBA);
  head of government: Prime Minister Isidore MVOUBA (since 7 January
  2005)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 10 March 2002 (next
  to be held in 2009)
  election results: Denis SASSOU-NGUESSO reelected president; percent
  of vote - Denis SASSOU-NGUESSO 89.4%, Joseph Kignoumbi Kia MBOUNGOU
  2.7%

Cook Islands
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February
  1952); represented by Frederick GOODWIN (since 9 February 2001); New
  Zealand High Commissioner Brian DONNELLY (since 21 February 2008),
  representative of New Zealand
  head of government: Prime Minister Jim MARURAI (since 14 December
  2004); Deputy Prime Minister Terepai MAOATE (since 9 August 2005)
  cabinet: Cabinet chosen by the prime minister; collectively
  responsible to Parliament
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; the UK representative is
  appointed by the monarch; the New Zealand high commissioner is
  appointed by the New Zealand Government; following legislative
  elections, the leader of the majority party or the leader of the
  majority coalition usually becomes prime minister

Coral Sea Islands
  administered from Canberra by the Australian
  Attorney-General's Department

Costa Rica
  chief of state: President Oscar ARIAS Sanchez (since 8
  May 2006); First Vice President Laura CHINCHILLA (since 8 May 2006);
  Second Vice President (vacant); note - the president is both the
  chief of state and head of government
  head of government: President Oscar ARIAS Sanchez (since 8 May
  2006); First Vice President Laura CHINCHILLA (since 8 May 2006);
  Second Vice President (vacant)
  cabinet: Cabinet selected by the president
  elections: president and vice presidents elected on the same ticket
  by popular vote for a single four-year term; election last held 5
  February 2006 (next to be held in February 2010)
  election results: Oscar ARIAS Sanchez elected president; percent of
  vote - Oscar ARIAS Sanchez (PLN) 40.9%; Otton SOLIS (PAC) 39.8%,
  Otto GUEVARA Guth (PML) 8%, Ricardo TOLEDO (PUSC) 3%

Cote d'Ivoire
  chief of state: President Laurent GBAGBO (since 26
  October 2000)
  head of government: Prime Minister Guillaume SORO (since 4 April
  2007)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president; note -
  under the current power-sharing agreement the prime minister and the
  president share the authority to appoint ministers
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (no term limits); election last held 26 October 2000 (next to be
  held 30 November 2008; elections were to be held in 2005 but have
  been repeatedly postponed by the government; the UN Security Council
  has extended the government's mandate); prime minister appointed by
  the president
  election results: Laurent GBAGBO elected president; percent of vote
  - Laurent GBAGBO 59.4%, Robert GUEI 32.7%, Francis WODIE 5.7%, other
  2.2%

Croatia
  chief of state: President Stjepan (Stipe) MESIC (since 18
  February 2000)
  head of government: Prime Minister Ivo SANADER (since 9 December
  2003); Deputy Prime Ministers Jadranka KOSOR (since 23 December
  2003) and Damir POLANCEC (since 15 February 2005), Djurdja ADLESIC
  (since 12 January 2008), Slobodan UZELAC (since 12 January 2008)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers named by the prime minister and
  approved by the parliamentary Assembly
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 16 January 2005
  (next to be held in January 2010); the leader of the majority party
  or the leader of the majority coalition is usually appointed prime
  minister by the president and then approved by the Assembly
  election results: Stjepan MESIC reelected president; percent of vote
  - Stjepan MESIC 66%, Jadranka KOSOR 34% in the second round

Cuba
  chief of state: President of the Council of State and President
  of the Council of Ministers Gen. Raul CASTRO Ruz (president since 24
  February 2008); First Vice President of the Council of State and
  First Vice President of the Council of Ministers Gen. Jose Ramon
  MACHADO Ventura (since 24 February 2008); note - the president is
  both the chief of state and head of government
  head of government: President of the Council of State and President
  of the Council of Ministers Gen. Raul CASTRO Ruz (president since 24
  February 2008); First Vice President of the Council of State and
  First Vice President of the Council of Ministers Gen. Jose Ramon
  MACHADO Ventura (since 24 February 2008)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers proposed by the president of the
  Council of State and appointed by the National Assembly or the
  31-member Council of State, elected by the Assembly to act on its
  behalf when it is not in session
  elections: president and vice presidents elected by the National
  Assembly for a term of five years; election last held 24 February
  2008 (next to be held in 2013)
  election results: Gen. Raul CASTRO Ruz elected president; percent of
  legislative vote - 100%; Gen. Jose Ramon MACHADO Ventura elected
  vice president; percent of legislative vote - 100%

Cyprus
  chief of state: President Dimitris CHRISTOFIAS (since 28
  February 2008); note - the president is both the chief of state and
  head of government; post of vice president is currently vacant;
  under the 1960 constitution, the post is reserved for a Turkish
  Cypriot
  head of government: President Dimitris CHRISTOFIAS (since 28
  February 2008)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed jointly by the president and
  vice president
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  election last held 17 and 24 February 2008 (next to be held in
  February 2013)
  election results: Dimitris CHRISTOFIAS elected president; percent of
  vote (first round) - Ioannis KASOULIDIS 33.5%, Dimitris CHRISTOFIAS
  33.3%, Tassos PAPADOPOULOS 31.8%; (second round) Dimitris
  CHRISTOFIAS 53.4%, Ioannis KASOULIDIS 46.6%
  note: Mehmet Ali TALAT became "president" of the "TRNC", 24 April
  2005, after "presidential" elections on 17 April 2005; results -
  Mehmet Ali TALAT 55.6%, Dervis EROGLU 22.7%; Ferdi Sabit SOYER is
  "TRNC prime minister" and heads the Council of Ministers (cabinet)
  in coalition with "Foreign Minister and Deputy Prime Minister"
  Turgay AVCI

Czech Republic
  chief of state: President Vaclav KLAUS (since 7 March
  2003)
  head of government: Prime Minister Mirek TOPOLANEK (since 9 January
  2007); Deputy Prime Ministers Petr NECAS (since 9 January 2007),
  Martin BURSIK (since 9 January 2007), and Alexandr VONDRA (since 9
  January 2007)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president on the recommendation of
  the prime minister
  elections: president elected by Parliament for a five-year term
  (eligible for a second term); last successful election held 15
  February 2008 (after earlier elections held 8 and 9 February 2008
  were inconclusive; next election to be held in February 2013); prime
  minister appointed by the president
  election results: Vaclav KLAUS reelected president on 15 February
  2008; Vaclav KLAUS 141 votes, Jan SVEJNAR 111 votes (third round;
  combined votes of both chambers of parliament)

Denmark
  chief of state: Queen MARGRETHE II (since 14 January 1972);
  Heir Apparent Crown Prince FREDERIK, elder son of the monarch (born
  26 May 1968)
  head of government: Prime Minister Anders Fogh RASMUSSEN (since 27
  November 2001)
  cabinet: Council of State appointed by the monarch
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; following legislative
  elections, the leader of the majority party or the leader of the
  majority coalition is usually appointed prime minister by the monarch

Dhekelia
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952)
  head of government: Administrator Air Vice-Marshal Richard LACEY
  (since 26 April 2006); note - reports to the British Ministry of
  Defense
  elections: none; the monarch is hereditary; the administrator is
  appointed by the monarch

Djibouti
  chief of state: President Ismail Omar GUELLEH (since 8 May
  1999)
  head of government: Prime Minister Mohamed Dileita DILEITA (since 4
  March 2001)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers responsible to the president
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a six-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 8 April 2005 (next
  to be held by April 2011); prime minister appointed by the president
  election results: Ismail Omar GUELLEH reelected president; percent
  of vote - Ismail Omar GUELLEH 100%

Dominica
  chief of state: President Nicholas J. O. LIVERPOOL (since
  October 2003)
  head of government: Prime Minister Roosevelt SKERRIT (since 8
  January 2004)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president on the advice of the
  prime minister
  elections: president elected by the House of Assembly for a
  five-year term; election last held 1 October 2003 (next to be held
  in October 2008); prime minister appointed by the president
  election results: Nicholas LIVERPOOL elected president; percent of
  legislative vote - NA%

Dominican Republic
  chief of state: President Leonel FERNANDEZ Reyna
  (since 16 August 2004); Vice President Rafael ALBURQUERQUE de Castro
  (since 16 August 2004); note - the president is both the chief of
  state and head of government
  head of government: President Leonel FERNANDEZ Reyna (since 16
  August 2004); Vice President Rafael ALBURQUERQUE de Castro (since 16
  August 2004)
  cabinet: Cabinet nominated by the president
  elections: president and vice president elected on the same ticket
  by popular vote for four-year terms (eligible for a second
  consecutive term); election last held 16 May 2008 (next to be held
  in May 2012)
  election results: Leonel FERNANDEZ reelected president; percent of
  vote - Leonel FERNANDEZ 53.6%, Miguel VARGAS 41%, Amable ARISTY less
  than 5%

Ecuador
  chief of state: President Rafael CORREA Delgado (since 15
  January 2007); Vice President Lenin MORENO Garces (since 15 January
  2007); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government
  head of government: President Rafael CORREA Delgado (since 15
  January 2007); Vice President Lenin MORENO Garces (since 15 January
  2007)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president
  elections: the president and vice president are elected on the same
  ticket by popular vote for a four-year term (may not serve
  consecutive terms); election last held 15 October 2006 with a runoff
  election on 26 November 2006 (next to be held in October 2010)
  election results: Rafael CORREA Delgado elected president; percent
  of vote - Rafael CORREA Delgado 56.7%; Alvaro NOBOA 43.3%

Egypt
  chief of state: President Mohamed Hosni MUBARAK (since 14
  October 1981)
  head of government: Prime Minister Ahmed Mohamed NAZIF (since 9 July
  2004)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president
  elections: president elected by popular vote for six-year term (no
  term limits); note - a national referendum in May 2005 approved a
  constitutional amendment that changed the presidential election to a
  multicandidate popular vote; previously the president was nominated
  by the People's Assembly and the nomination was validated by a
  national, popular referendum; last referendum held 26 September
  1999; first election under terms of constitutional amendment held 7
  September 2005; next election scheduled for 2011
  election results: Hosni MUBARAK reelected president; percent of vote
  - Hosni MUBARAK 88.6%, Ayman NOUR 7.6%, Noman GOMAA 2.9%

El Salvador
  chief of state: President Elias Antonio SACA Gonzalez
  (since 1 June 2004); Vice President Ana Vilma Albanez DE ESCOBAR
  (since 1 June 2004); note - the president is both the chief of state
  and head of government
  head of government: President Elias Antonio SACA Gonzalez (since 1
  June 2004); Vice President Ana Vilma Albanez DE ESCOBAR (since 1
  June 2004)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers selected by the president
  elections: president and vice president elected on the same ticket
  by popular vote for a single five-year term; election last held 21
  March 2004 (next to be held in March 2009)
  election results: Elias Antonio SACA Gonzalez elected president;
  percent of vote - Elias Antonio SACA Gonzalez 57.7%, Schafik HANDAL
  35.6%, Hector SILVA 3.9%, other 2.8%

Equatorial Guinea
  chief of state: President Brig. Gen. (Ret.)
  Teodoro OBIANG NGUEMA MBASOGO (since 3 August 1979 when he seized
  power in a military coup)
  head of government: Prime Minister Ignacio Milan TANG (since 8 July
  2008);
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term
  (no term limits); election last held 15 December 2002 (next to be
  held in December 2009); prime minister and deputy prime ministers
  appointed by the president
  election results: Teodoro OBIANG NGUEMA MBASOGO reelected president;
  percent of vote - Teodoro OBIANG NGUEMA MBASOGO 97.1%, Celestino
  Bonifacio BACALE 2.2%; elections marred by widespread fraud

Eritrea
  chief of state: President ISAIAS Afworki (since 8 June
  1993); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government and is head of the State Council and National Assembly
  head of government: President ISAIAS Afworki (since 8 June 1993)
  cabinet: State Council is the collective executive authority;
  members appointed by the president
  elections: president elected by the National Assembly for a
  five-year term (eligible for a second term); the most recent and
  only election held 8 June 1993 (next election date uncertain as the
  National Assembly did not hold a presidential election in December
  2001 as anticipated)
  election results: ISAIAS Afworki elected president; percent of
  National Assembly vote - ISAIAS Afworki 95%, other 5%

Estonia
  chief of state: President Toomas Hendrik ILVES (since 9
  October 2006)
  head of government: Prime Minister Andrus ANSIP (since 12 April 2005)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister,
  approved by Parliament
  elections: president elected by Parliament for a five-year term
  (eligible for a second term); if a candidate does not secure
  two-thirds of the votes after three rounds of balloting in the
  Parliament, then an electoral assembly (made up of Parliament plus
  members of local governments) elects the president, choosing between
  the two candidates with the largest percentage of votes; election
  last held 23 September 2006 (next to be held in the fall of 2011);
  prime minister nominated by the president and approved by Parliament
  election results: Toomas Hendrik ILVES elected president on 23
  September 2006 by a 345-member electoral assembly; ILVES received
  174 votes to incumbent Arnold RUUTEL's 162; remaining 9 ballots left
  blank or invalid

Ethiopia
  chief of state: President GIRMA Woldegiorgis (since 8
  October 2001)
  head of government: Prime Minister MELES Zenawi (since August 1995)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers as provided for in the December 1994
  constitution; ministers are selected by the prime minister and
  approved by the House of People's Representatives
  elections: president elected by the House of People's
  Representatives for a six-year term (eligible for a second term);
  election last held 9 October 2007 (next to be held in October 2013);
  prime minister designated by the party in power following
  legislative elections
  election results: GIRMA Woldegiorgis elected president; percent of
  vote by the House of People's Representatives - 79%

European Union
  chief of union: President of the European Commission
  Jose Manuel DURAO BARROSO (since 22 November 2004)
  cabinet: European Commission (composed of 27 members, one from each
  member country; each commissioner responsible for one or more policy
  areas)
  elections: the president of the European Commission is designated by
  member governments and is confirmed by the European Parliament;
  working from member state recommendations, the Commission president
  then assembles a "college" of Commission members; the European
  Parliament confirms the entire Commission for a five-year term; the
  last confirmation process was held 18 November 2004 (next to be held
  in 2009)
  election results: European Parliament approved the European
  Commission by an approval vote of 449 to 149 with 82 abstentions
  note: the European Council brings together heads of state and
  government and the president of the European Commission and meets at
  least four times a year; its aim is to provide the impetus for the
  major political issues relating to European integration and to issue
  general policy guidelines

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II
  (since 6 February 1952)
  head of government: Governor Alan HUCKLE (since 25 August 2006);
  Chief Executive Dr. Tim THOROGOOD (since 3 January 2008)
  cabinet: Executive Council; three members elected by the Legislative
  Council, two ex officio members (chief executive and the financial
  secretary), and the governor
  elections: the monarchy is hereditary; governor appointed by the
  monarch

Faroe Islands
  chief of state: Queen MARGRETHE II of Denmark (since
  14 January 1972), represented by High Commissioner Birgit KLEIS,
  chief administrative officer (since 1 November 2001)
  head of government: Prime Minister Kaj Leo JOHANNESSEN (since 24
  September 2008)
  cabinet: Landsstyri appointed by the prime minister
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; high commissioner appointed by
  the monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the
  majority party or the leader of the majority coalition is usually
  elected prime minister by the Faroese Parliament; election last held
  19 January 2008 (next to be held no later than January 2012)
  election results: Kaj Leo JOHANNESSEN elected prime minister;
  percent of parliamentary vote - NA

Fiji
  chief of state: President Ratu Josefa ILOILOVATU Uluivuda
  (since 18 July 2000); note - ILOILOVATU was reaffirmed as president
  by the Great Council of Chiefs in a statement issued on 22 December,
  and reappointed by the coup leader Commodore Voreqe BAINIMARAMA in
  January 2007
  head of government: Prime Minister Laisenia QARASE (since 10
  September 2000); note - although QARASE is still the legal prime
  minister, he has been confined to his home island; the president
  appointed Commodore Voreqe BAINIMARAMA interim prime minister under
  the military regime
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the prime minister from among the
  members of Parliament and is responsible to Parliament; note - coup
  leader Commodore Voreqe BAINIMARAMA has appointed an interim cabinet
  elections: president elected by the Great Council of Chiefs for a
  five-year term (eligible for a second term); prime minister
  appointed by the president; election last held 8 March 2006
  election results: Ratu Josefa ILOILOVATU Uluivuda elected president
  by the Great Council of Chiefs; percent of vote - NA

Finland
  chief of state: President Tarja HALONEN (since 1 March 2000)
  head of government: Prime Minister Matti VANHANEN (since 24 June
  2003); Deputy Prime Minister Jyrki KATAINEN (since 19 April 2007)
  cabinet: Council of State or Valtioneuvosto appointed by the
  president, responsible to parliament
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a six-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 15 January 2006
  (next to be held in January 2012); the president appoints the prime
  minister and deputy prime minister from the majority party or the
  majority coalition after parliamentary elections and the parliament
  must approve the appointment; Prime Minister VANHANEN reelected 17
  April 2007
  election results: percent of vote - Tarja HALONEN (SDP) 46.3%, Sauli
  NIINISTO (Kok) 24.1%, Matti Vanhanen (Kesk) 18.6%, Heidi HAUTALA
  (VIHR) 3.5%; a runoff election between HALONEN and NIINISTO was held
  29 January 2006 - HALONEN 51.8%, NIINISTO 48.2%; Matti VANHANEN
  reelected prime minister; election results 121-71
  note: government coalition - Kesk, KOK, VIHR, and SFP

France
  chief of state: President Nicolas SARKOZY (since 16 May 2007)
  head of government: Prime Minister Francois FILLON (since 17 May
  2007)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president at the
  suggestion of the prime minister
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (changed from seven-year term in October 2000); election last held
  22 April and 6 May 2007 (next to be held spring 2012); prime
  minister nominated by the National Assembly majority and appointed
  by the president
  election results: Nicolas SARKOZY wins the election; First Round:
  percent of vote - Nicolas SARKOZY 31.18%, Segolene ROYAL 25.87%,
  Francois BAYROU 18.57%, Jean-Marie LE PEN 10.44%, others 13.94%;
  Second Round: SARKOZY 53.1% and ROYAL 46.9%

French Polynesia
  chief of state: President Nicolas SARKOZY (since 16
  May 2007), represented by High Commissioner of the Republic Adolphe
  COLRAT (since 7 July 2008)
  head of government: President of French Polynesia Gaston TONG SANG
  (since 15 April 2008); President of the Territorial Assembly Antony
  GEROS (since 9 May 2004)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers; president submits a list of members
  of the Territorial Assembly for approval by them to serve as
  ministers
  elections: French president elected by popular vote for a five-year
  term; high commissioner appointed by the French president on the
  advice of the French Ministry of Interior; president of the
  territorial government and the president of the Territorial Assembly
  are elected by the members of the assembly for five-year terms (no
  term limits)

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  chief of state: President
  Nicolas SARKOZY (since 16 May 2007), represented by Senior
  Administrator Rollon MOUCHEL-BLAISOT (16 October 2008)

Gabon
  chief of state: President El Hadj Omar BONGO Ondimba (since 2
  December 1967)
  head of government: Prime Minister Jean Eyeghe NDONG (since 20
  January 2006)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister in
  consultation with the president
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term
  (no term limits); election last held 27 November 2005 (next to be
  held in 2012); prime minister appointed by the president
  election results: President El Hadj Omar BONGO Ondimba reelected;
  percent of vote - El Hadj Omar BONGO Ondimba 79.2%, Pierre
  MAMBOUNDOU 13.6%, Zacharie MYBOTO 6.6%

Gambia, The
  chief of state: President Yahya A. J. J. JAMMEH (since
  18 October 1996); note - from 1994 to 1996 he was chairman of the
  Junta; Vice President Isatou NJIE-SAIDY (since 20 March 1997); note
  - the president is both the chief of state and head of government
  head of government: President Yahya A. J. J. JAMMEH (since 18
  October 1996); Vice President Isatou NJIE-SAIDY (since 20 March 1997)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (no term limits); election last held 22 September 2006 (next to be
  held in 2011)
  election results: Yahya A. J. J. JAMMEH reelected president; percent
  of vote - Yahya A. J. J. JAMMEH 67.3%, Ousainou DARBOE 26.6%, Halifa
  SALLAH 6.0%

Georgia
  chief of state: President Mikheil SAAKASHVILI (since 25
  January 2004); the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government for the power ministries: state security (includes
  interior) and defense
  head of government: President Mikheil SAAKASHVILI (since 25 January
  2004); Prime Minister Grigol MGALOBLISHVILI (since 1 November 2008);
  the president is both the chief of state and head of government for
  the power ministries: state security (includes interior) and
  defense; the prime minister is head of the remaining ministries of
  government
  cabinet: Cabinet of Ministers
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 5 January 2008
  (next to be held January 2013)
  election results: Mikheil SAAKASHVILI reelected president; percent
  of vote - Mikheil SAAKASHVILI 53.5%, Levan GACHECHILADZE 25.7%,
  Badri PATARKATSISHVILI 7.1%

Germany
  chief of state: President Horst KOEHLER (since 1 July 2004)
  head of government: Chancellor Angela MERKEL (since 22 November 2005)
  cabinet: Cabinet or Bundesminister (Federal Ministers) appointed by
  the president on the recommendation of the chancellor
  elections: president elected for a five-year term (eligible for a
  second term) by a Federal Convention, including all members of the
  Federal Assembly and an equal number of delegates elected by the
  state parliaments; election last held 23 May 2004 (next scheduled
  for 23 May 2009); chancellor elected by an absolute majority of the
  Federal Assembly for a four-year term; Bundestag vote for Chancellor
  last held 22 November 2005 (next will follow the national elections
  to be held by autumn 2009)
  election results: Horst KOEHLER elected president; received 604
  votes of the Federal Convention against 589 for Gesine SCHWAN;
  Angela MERKEL elected chancellor; vote by Federal Assembly 397 to
  202 with 12 abstentions

Ghana
  chief of state: President John Agyekum KUFUOR (since 7 January
  2001); Vice President Alhaji Aliu MAHAMA (since 7 January 2001);
  note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government
  head of government: President John Agyekum KUFUOR (since 7 January
  2001); Vice President Alhaji Aliu MAHAMA (since 7 January 2001)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers; president nominates members subject
  to approval by Parliament
  elections: president and vice president elected on the same ticket
  by popular vote for four-year terms (eligible for a second term);
  election last held 7 December 2004 (next to be held 7 December 2008)
  election results: John Agyekum KUFUOR reelected president in
  election; percent of vote - John KUFUOR 52.4%, John ATTA-MILLS 44.6%

Gibraltar
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February
  1952); represented by Governor Sir Robert FULTON (since 27 October
  2006)
  head of government: Chief Minister Peter CARUANA (since 17 May 1996)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed from among the 17 elected
  members of the Parliament by the governor in consultation with the
  chief minister
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor appointed by the
  monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the majority
  party or the leader of the majority coalition is usually appointed
  chief minister by the governor

Greece
  chief of state: President Karolos PAPOULIAS (since 12 March
  2005)
  head of government: Prime Minister Konstandinos (Kostas) KARAMANLIS
  (since 7 March 2004)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president on the recommendation of
  the prime minister
  elections: president elected by parliament for a five-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 8 February 2005
  (next to be held by February 2010); according to the Greek
  Constitution, presidents may only serve two terms; president
  appoints leader of the party securing plurality of vote in election
  to become prime minister and form a government
  election results: Karolos PAPOULIAS elected president; number of
  parliamentary votes, 279 out of 300

Greenland
  chief of state: Queen MARGRETHE II of Denmark (since 14
  January 1972), represented by High Commissioner Soren MOLLER (since
  April 2005)
  head of government: Prime Minister Hans ENOKSEN (since 14 December
  2002)
  cabinet: Home Rule Government is elected by the parliament
  (Landstinget) on the basis of the strength of parties
  elections: the monarchy is hereditary; high commissioner appointed
  by the monarch; prime minister is elected by parliament (usually the
  leader of the majority party);
  election results: Hans ENOKSEN reelected prime minister
  note: government coalition - Siumut and Inuit Ataqatigiit

Grenada
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
  represented by Governor General Carlyle Arnold GLEAN (since 27
  November 2008)
  head of government: Prime Minister Tillman THOMAS (since 9 July 2008)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the advice of
  the prime minister
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor general appointed by
  the monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the
  majority party or the leader of the majority coalition is usually
  appointed prime minister by the governor general

Guam
  chief of state: President George W. BUSH of the US (since 20
  January 2001); Vice President Richard B. CHENEY (since 20 January
  2001)
  head of government: Governor Felix P. CAMACHO (since 6 January
  2003); Lieutenant Governor Dr. Michael W. CRUZ (since 1 January 2007)
  cabinet: heads of executive departments; appointed by the governor
  with the consent of the Guam legislature
  elections: under the US Constitution, residents of unincorporated
  territories, such as Guam, do not vote in elections for US president
  and vice president; however, they may vote in Democratic and
  Republican presidential primary elections; governor and lieutenant
  governor elected on the same ticket by popular vote for four-year
  term (can serve two consecutive terms, then must wait a full term
  before running again); election last held 7 November 2006 (next to
  be held in November 2010)
  election results: Felix P. CAMACHO reelected governor; Dr. Michael
  W. CRUZ elected lieutenant governor; percent of vote - NA

Guatemala
  chief of state: President Alvaro COLOM Caballeros (since
  14 January 2008); Vice President Rafael ESPADA (since 14 January
  2008); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government
  head of government: President Alvaro COLOM Caballeros (since 14
  January 2008); Vice President Rafael ESPADA (since 14 January 2008)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a four-year term
  (may not serve consecutive terms); election last held 9 September
  2007; runoff held 4 November 2007 (next to be held September 2011)
  election results: Alvaro COLOM Caballeros elected president; percent
  of vote - Alvaro COLOM Caballeros 52.8%, Otto PEREZ Molina 47.2%

Guernsey
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952),
  represented by Lieutenant Governor Sir Fabian MALBON (since 28
  October 2005)
  head of government: Chief Minister Lyndon TROTT (since 1 May 2008)
  cabinet: Policy Council elected by the States of Deliberation
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; lieutenant governor appointed
  by the monarch; chief minister is elected by States of Deliberation
  election results: Lyndon TROTT elected chief minister, percent of
  vote of the States of Deliberation NA

Guinea
  chief of state: President Lansana CONTE (head of military
  government since 5 April 1984, elected president 19 December 1993)
  head of government: Prime Minister Ahmed Tidiane SOUARE (since 23
  May 2008)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term
  (no term limits); candidate must receive a majority of the votes
  cast to be elected president; election last held 21 December 2003
  (next to be held in December 2010); the prime minister is appointed
  by the president
  election results: Lansana CONTE reelected president; percent of vote
  - Lansana CONTE 95.3%, Mamadou Bhoye BARRY 4.6%

Guinea-Bissau
  chief of state: President Joao Bernardo 'Nino' VIEIRA
  (since 1 October 2005)
  head of government: Prime Minister Carlos CORREIA (since 5 August
  2008)
  cabinet: NA
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (no term limits); election last held 24 July 2005 (next to be held
  in 2010); prime minister appointed by the president after
  consultation with party leaders in the legislature
  election results: Joao Bernardo VIEIRA elected president; percent of
  vote, second ballot - Joao Bernardo VIEIRA 52.4%, Malam Bacai SANHA
  47.6%

Guyana
  chief of state: President Bharrat JAGDEO (since 11 August
  1999); note - assumed presidency after resignation of President
  Janet JAGAN and was reelected in 2001, and again in 2006
  head of government: Prime Minister Samuel HINDS (since October 1992,
  except for a period as chief of state after the death of President
  Cheddi JAGAN on 6 March 1997)
  cabinet: Cabinet of Ministers appointed by the president,
  responsible to the legislature
  elections: president elected by popular vote as leader of a party
  list in parliamentary elections, which must be held at least every
  five years (no term limits); elections last held 28 August 2006
  (next to be held by August 2011); prime minister appointed by the
  president
  election results: President Bharrat JAGDEO reelected; percent of
  vote 54.6%

Haiti
  chief of state: President Rene PREVAL (since 14 May 2006)
  head of government: Prime Minister Michele PIERRE-LOUIS (since 5
  September 2008)
  cabinet: Cabinet chosen by the prime minister in consultation with
  the president
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (may not serve consecutive terms); election last held 7 February
  2006 (next to be held in 2011); prime minister appointed by the
  president, ratified by the National Assembly
  election results: Rene PREVAL elected president; percent of vote -
  Rene PREVAL 51%

Holy See (Vatican City)
  chief of state: Pope BENEDICT XVI (since 19
  April 2005)
  head of government: Secretary of State Cardinal Tarcisio BERTONE
  (since 15 September 2006)
  cabinet: Pontifical Commission for the State of Vatican City
  appointed by the pope
  elections: pope elected for life by the College of Cardinals;
  election last held 19 April 2005 (next to be held after the death of
  the current pope); secretary of state appointed by the pope
  election results: Joseph RATZINGER elected Pope BENEDICT XVI

Honduras
  chief of state: President Jose Manuel ZELAYA Rosales (since
  27 January 2006); Vice President Elvin Ernesto SANTOS Ordonez (since
  27 January 2006); note - the president is both the chief of state
  and head of government
  head of government: President Jose Manuel ZELAYA Rosales (since 27
  January 2006); Vice President Elvin Ernesto SANTOS Ordonez (since 27
  January 2006)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by president
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a four-year term;
  election last held 27 November 2005 (next to be held in November
  2009)
  election results: Jose Manuel ZELAYA Rosales elected president -
  49.8%, Porfirio "Pepe" LOBO Sosa 46.1%, other 4.1%

Hong Kong
  chief of state: President of China HU Jintao (since 15
  March 2003)
  head of government: Chief Executive Donald TSANG (since 24 June 2005)
  cabinet: Executive Council consists of 15 official members and 16
  non-official members
  elections: chief executive elected for five-year term by 800-member
  electoral committee; last held on 25 March 2007 (next to be held in
  2012)
  election results: Donald TSANG elected chief executive receiving
  84.1% of the vote of the election committee; Alan LEONG received
  15.9%

Hungary
  chief of state: President Laszlo SOLYOM (since 5 August 2005)
  head of government: Prime Minister Ferenc GYURCSANY (since 29
  September 2004)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers prime minister elected by the National
  Assembly on the recommendation of the president; other ministers
  proposed by the prime minister and appointed and relieved of their
  duties by the president
  elections: president elected by the National Assembly for a
  five-year term (eligible for a second term); election last held 6-7
  June 2005 (next to be held by June 2010); prime minister elected by
  the National Assembly on the recommendation of the president;
  election last held 29 September 2004
  election results: Laszlo SOLYOM elected president by a simple
  majority in the third round of voting, 185 to 182; Ferenc GYURCSANY
  elected prime minister; result of legislative vote - 197 to 12
  note: to be elected, the president must win two-thirds of
  legislative vote in the first two rounds or a simple majority in the
  third round

Iceland
  chief of state: President Olafur Ragnar GRIMSSON (since 1
  August 1996)
  head of government: Prime Minister Geir H. HAARDE (since 7 June 2006)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the prime minister
  elections: president, largely a ceremonial post, is elected by
  popular vote for a four-year term (no term limits); election last
  held 26 June 2004 (next to be held in June 2008); following
  legislative elections, the leader of the majority party or the
  leader of the majority coalition is usually the prime minister
  election results: Olafur Ragnar GRIMSSON 85.6%, Baldur AGUSTSSON
  12.5%, Astthor MAGNUSSON 1.9%

India
  chief of state: President Pratibha PATIL (since 25 July 2007);
  Vice President Hamid ANSARI (since 11 August 2007)
  head of government: Prime Minister Manmohan SINGH (since 22 May 2004)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president on the recommendation of
  the prime minister
  elections: president elected by an electoral college consisting of
  elected members of both houses of Parliament and the legislatures of
  the states for a five-year term (no term limits); election last held
  21 July 2007 (next to be held in July 2012); vice president elected
  by both houses of Parliament for a five-year term; election last
  held 12 August 2002 (next to be held August 2007); prime minister
  chosen by parliamentary members of the majority party following
  legislative elections; election last held April - May 2004 (next to
  be held May 2009)
  election results: Pratibha PATIL elected president; percent of vote
  - 65.8%; Bhairon Singh SHEKHAWAT - 34.2%

Indonesia
  chief of state: President Susilo Bambang YUDHOYONO (since
  20 October 2004); Vice President Muhammad Yusuf KALLA (since 20
  October 2004); note - the president is both the chief of state and
  head of government
  head of government: President Susilo Bambang YUDHOYONO (since 20
  October 2004); Vice President Muhammad Yusuf KALLA (since 20 October
  2004)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president
  elections: president and vice president were elected for five-year
  terms (eligible for a second term) by direct vote of the citizenry;
  last held 20 September 2004 (next to be held in 2009)
  election results: Susilo Bambang YUDHOYONO elected president
  receiving 60.6% of vote; MEGAWATI Sukarnoputri received 39.4%

Iran
  chief of state: Supreme Leader Ali Hoseini-KHAMENEI (since 4
  June 1989)
  head of government: President Mahmud AHMADI-NEJAD (since 3 August
  2005); First Vice President Parviz DAVUDI (since 11 September 2005)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers selected by the president with
  legislative approval; the Supreme Leader has some control over
  appointments to the more sensitive ministries
  note: also considered part of the Executive branch of government are
  three oversight bodies: 1) Assembly of Experts (Majles-Khebregan), a
  popularly elected body charged with determining the succession of
  the Supreme Leader, reviewing his performance, and deposing him if
  deemed necessary; 2) Expediency Council or the Council for the
  Discernment of Expediency (Majma-e-Tashkise-Maslahat-e-Nezam) exerts
  supervisory authority over the executive, judicial, and legislative
  branches and resolves legislative issues on which the Majles and the
  Council of Guardians disagree and since 1989 has been used to advise
  national religious leaders on matters of national policy; in 2005
  the Council's powers were expanded to act as a supervisory body for
  the government; 3) Council of Guardians of the Constitution or
  Council of Guardians or Guardians Council (Shora-ye Negaban-e
  Qanun-e Assassi) determines whether proposed legislation is both
  constitutional and faithful to Islamic law, vets candidates for
  suitability, and supervises national elections
  elections: Supreme Leader is appointed for life by the Assembly of
  Experts; president is elected by popular vote for a four-year term
  (eligible for a second term and third nonconsecutive term); last
  held 17 June 2005 with a two-candidate runoff on 24 June 2005 (next
  presidential election slated for 12 June 2009)
  election results: Mahmud AHMADI-NEJAD elected president; percent of
  vote - Mahmud AHMADI-NEJAD 62%, Ali Akbar Hashemi-RAFSANJANI 36%

Iraq
  chief of state: President Jalal TALABANI (since 6 April 2005);
  Vice Presidents Adil ABD AL-MAHDI and Tariq al-HASHIMI (since 22
  April 2006); note - the president and vice presidents comprise the
  Presidency Council)
  head of government: Prime Minister Nuri al-MALIKI (since 20 May
  2006); Deputy Prime Ministers Barham SALIH (since 20 May 2006)and
  Rafi al-ISSAWI (since 19 July 2008)
  cabinet: 34 ministers appointed by the Presidency Council, plus
  Prime Minister Nuri al-MALIKI and Deputy Prime Ministers Barham
  SALIH and Rafi al-ISSAWI
  elections: held 15 December 2005 to elect a 275-member Council of
  Representatives

Ireland
  chief of state: President Mary MCALEESE (since 11 November
  1997)
  head of government: Prime Minister Brian COWEN (since 7 May 2008)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president with previous nomination
  by the prime minister and approval of the House of Representatives
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 31 October 1997
  (next scheduled for October 2011); note - Mary MCALEESE appointed to
  a second term when no other candidate qualified for the 2004
  presidential election; prime minister (taoiseach) nominated by the
  House of Representatives and appointed by the president
  election results: Mary MCALEESE elected president; percent of vote -
  Mary MCALEESE 44.8%, Mary BANOTTI 29.6%
  note: government coalition - Fianna Fail, the Green Party, the
  Progressive Democrats, and independent members of Parliament

Isle of Man
  chief of state: Lord of Mann Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
  February 1952); represented by Lieutenant Governor Sir Paul K.
  HADDACKS (since 17 October 2005)
  head of government: Chief Minister Tony BROWN (since 14 December
  2006)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; lieutenant governor appointed
  by the monarch for a five-year term; the chief minister is elected
  by the Tynwald; election last held 14 December 2006 (next to be held
  in December 2008)
  election results: House of Keys speaker Tony BROWN elected chief
  minister by the Tynwald

Israel
  chief of state: President Shimon PERES (since 15 July 2007)
  head of government: Prime Minister Ehud OLMERT (since May 2006);
  Deputy Prime Minister Tzipora "Tzipi" LIVNI; note - Prime Minister
  OLMERT resigned on 17 September 2008, but will serve as acting prime
  minister until a new government is formed
  cabinet: Cabinet selected by prime minister and approved by the
  Knesset
  elections: president is largely a ceremonial role and is elected by
  the Knesset for a seven-year term (one-term limit); election last
  held 13 June 2007 (next to be held in 2014 but can be called
  earlier); following legislative elections, the president assigns a
  Knesset member - traditionally the leader of the largest party - the
  task of forming a governing coalition
  note: government coalition - Kadima, Labor Party, GIL (Pensioners),
  and SHAS
  election results: Shimon PERES elected president; number of votes in
  first round - Shimon PERES 58, Reuven RIVLIN 37, Colette AVITAL 21;
  PERES elected president in second round with 86 votes (unopposed)

Italy
  chief of state: President Giorgio NAPOLITANO (since 15 May
  2006)
  head of government: Prime Minister Silvio BERLUSCONI (referred to in
  Italy as the president of the Council of Ministers) (since 8 May
  2008) note - in Italy the prime minister is referred to as the
  president of the Council of Ministers
  cabinet: Council of Ministers nominated by the prime minister and
  approved by the president
  elections: president elected by an electoral college consisting of
  both houses of parliament and 58 regional representatives for a
  seven-year term (no term limits); election last held 10 May 2006
  (next to be held in May 2013); prime minister appointed by the
  president and confirmed by parliament
  election results: Giorgio NAPOLITANO elected president on the fourth
  round of voting; electoral college vote - 543

Jamaica
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
  represented by Governor General Kenneth O. HALL (since 15 February
  2006)
  head of government: Prime Minister Bruce GOLDING (since 11 September
  2007)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the advice of
  the prime minister
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor general appointed by
  the monarch on the recommendation of the prime minister; following
  legislative elections, the leader of the majority party or the
  leader of the majority coalition in the House of Representatives is
  appointed prime minister by the governor general; the deputy prime
  minister is recommended by the prime minister

Japan
  chief of state: Emperor AKIHITO (since 7 January 1989)
  head of government: Prime Minister Taro ASO (since 24 September 2008)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the prime minister
  elections: Diet designates prime minister; constitution requires
  that prime minister commands parliamentary majority; following
  legislative elections, leader of majority party or leader of
  majority coalition in House of Representatives usually becomes prime
  minister; monarch is hereditary

Jersey
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
  represented by Lieutenant Governor Andrew RIDGEWAY (since 14 June
  2006)
  head of government: Chief Minister Frank WALKER (since December
  2005); Bailiff Philip Martin BAILHACHE (since February 1995)
  cabinet: Cabinet (since December 2005)
  elections: ministers of the Cabinet including the chief minister are
  elected by the Assembly of States; the monarch is hereditary;
  lieutenant governor and bailiff appointed by the monarch

Jordan
  chief of state: King ABDALLAH II (since 7 February 1999);
  Prince HUSSEIN (born 1994), eldest son of King ABDALLAH II, is
  considered to be first in line to inherit the throne
  head of government: Prime Minister Nader al-DAHABI (since 25
  November 2007)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the prime minister in consultation
  with the monarch
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; prime minister appointed by
  the monarch

Kazakhstan
  chief of state: President Nursultan A. NAZARBAYEV
  (chairman of the Supreme Soviet from 22 February 1990, elected
  president 1 December 1991)
  head of government: Prime Minister Karim MASIMOV (since 10 January
  2007); Deputy Prime Ministers Umirzak SHUKEYEV (since 27 August
  2007) and Yerbol ORYNBAYEV (since 29 October 2007)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term
  (no term limits); election last held 4 December 2005 (next to be
  held in 2012); prime minister and first deputy prime minister
  appointed by the president
  election results: Nursultan A. NAZARBAYEV reelected president;
  percent of vote - Nursultan A. NAZARBAYEV 91.1%, Zharmakhan A.
  TUYAKBAI 6.6%, Alikhan M. BAIMENOV 1.6%
  note: President NAZARBAYEV arranged a referendum in 1995 that
  extended his term of office and expanded his presidential powers:
  only he can initiate constitutional amendments, appoint and dismiss
  the government, dissolve Parliament, call referenda at his
  discretion, and appoint administrative heads of regions and cities

Kenya
  chief of state: President Mwai KIBAKI (since 30 December
  2002); Vice President Stephene Kalonzo MUSYOKA (since 10 January
  2008);
  head of government: Prime Minister Raila Amolo ODINGA (since 17
  April 2008)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (eligible for a second term); in addition to receiving the largest
  number of votes in absolute terms, the presidential candidate must
  also win 25% or more of the vote in at least five of Kenya's seven
  provinces and one area to avoid a runoff; election last held 27
  December 2007 (next to be held in December 2012); vice president
  appointed by the president
  election results: President Mwai KIBAKI reelected; percent of vote -
  Mwai KIBAKI 46%, Raila ODINGA 44%, Kalonzo MUSYOKA 9%

Kiribati
  chief of state: President Anote TONG (since 10 July 2003);
  Vice President Teima ONORIO; note - the president is both the chief
  of state and head of government
  head of government: President Anote TONG (since 10 July 2003); Vice
  President Teima ONORIO
  cabinet: 12-member cabinet appointed by the president from among the
  members of the House of Parliament
  elections: the House of Parliament chooses the presidential
  candidates from among its members and then those candidates compete
  in a general election; president is elected by popular vote for a
  four-year term (eligible for two more terms); election last held 17
  October 2007 (next to be held in 2011); vice president appointed by
  the president
  election results: Anote TONG 63.7%, Nabuti MWEMWENIKARAWA 32.9%

Korea, North
  chief of state: KIM Jong Il (since July 1994); note -
  on 3 September 2003, rubberstamp Supreme People's Assembly (SPA)
  reelected KIM Jong Il chairman of the National Defense Commission, a
  position accorded nation's "highest administrative authority"; SPA
  reelected KIM Yong Nam president of its Presidium also with
  responsibility of representing state and receiving diplomatic
  credentials
  head of government: Premier KIM Yong Il (since 11 April 2007); Vice
  Premiers KWAK Pom Gi (since 5 September 1998), JON Sung Hun (since 3
  September 2003), RO Tu Chol (since 3 September 2003), THAE Jong Su
  (since 16 October 2007)
  cabinet: Naegak (cabinet) members, except for Minister of People's
  Armed Forces, are appointed by SPA
  elections: last held in September 2003 (next to be held in September
  2008)
  election results: KIM Jong Il and KIM Yong Nam were only nominees
  for positions and ran unopposed

Korea, South
  chief of state: President LEE Myung-bak (since 25
  February 2008)
  head of government: Prime Minister HAN Seung-soo (since 29 February
  2008)
  cabinet: State Council appointed by the president on the prime
  minister's recommendation
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a single five-year
  term; election last held 19 December 2007 (next to be held on in
  December 2012); prime minister appointed by president with consent
  of National Assembly; deputy prime ministers appointed by president
  on prime minister's recommendation
  election results: ROH Moo-hyun elected president on 19 December
  2002; percent of vote - ROH Moo-hyun (MDP) 48.9%; LEE Hoi-chang
  (GNP) 46.6%; others 4.5%; LEE Myung-bak elected president on 19
  December 2007; percent of vote - LEE Myung-bak (GNP) 48.7%; CHUNG
  Dong-young (UNDP) 26.1%); LEE Hoi-chang (independent) 15.1; others
  10.1%

Kosovo
  chief of state: President Fatmir SEJDIU (since 10 February
  2006)
  head of government: Prime Minister Hashim THACI (since 9 January
  2008)
  cabinet: ministers; elected by the Kosovo Assembly
  elections: the president is elected for a five-year term by the
  Kosovo Assembly; election last held 9 January 2008 (next to be held
  by in 2013); the prime minister is elected by the Kosovo Assembly
  election results: Fatmir SEJDIU reelected president; first round:
  Fatmir SEDIU 62, Naim MALOKU 37; second round: Fatmir SEDIU 61, Naim
  MALOKU 37; and Hashim THACI elected to be prime minister by the
  Assembly

Kuwait
  chief of state: Amir SABAH al-Ahmad al-Jabir al-Sabah (since
  29 January 2006); Crown Prince NAWAF al-Ahmad al-Jabir al-Sabah
  head of government: Prime Minister NASIR MUHAMMAD al-Ahmad al-Sabah
  (since 3 April 2007); First Deputy Prime Minister JABIR Mubarak
  al-Hamad al-Sabah (since 9 February 2006); Deputy Prime Ministers
  MUHAMMAD al-Sabah al-Salim al-Sabah (since 9 February 2006) and
  Faysal al-HAJJI (since 5 April 2007); note - the Amir accepted the
  resignation of the prime minister and cabinet on 1 December 2008)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister and
  approved by the Amir
  elections: none; the amir is hereditary; the amir appoints the prime
  minister and deputy prime ministers

Kyrgyzstan
  chief of state: President Kurmanbek BAKIEV (since 14
  August 2005)
  head of government: Prime Minister Igor CHUDINOV (since 24 December
  2007)
  cabinet: Cabinet of Ministers proposed by the prime minister,
  appointed by the president; ministers in charge of defense and
  security, appointed solely by the president
  elections: Kurmanbek BAKIEV elected by popular vote for a five-year
  term (eligible for a second term); election last held 10 July 2005
  (next scheduled for 2010); prime minister nominated by the
  parliamentary party holding more than 50% of the seats; if no such
  party exists, the president selects the party that will nominate a
  prime minister
  election results: Kurmanbek BAKIEV elected president; percent of
  vote - Kurmanbek BAKIEV 88.6%, Tursunbai BAKIR-UULU 3.9%, other
  candidates 7.5%

Laos
  chief of state: President Lt. Gen. CHOUMMALI Saignason (since 8
  June 2006); Vice President BOUN-GNANG Volachit (since 8 June 2006)
  head of government: Prime Minister BOUASONE Bouphavanh (since 8 June
  2006); Deputy Prime Ministers Maj. Gen. ASANG Laoli (since May
  2002), Maj. Gen. DOUANGCHAI Phichit (since 8 June 2006), SOMSAVAT
  Lengsavat (since 26 February 1998), and THONGLOUN Sisoulit (since 27
  March 2001)
  cabinet: Ministers appointed by president, approved by National
  Assembly
  elections: president and vice president elected by National Assembly
  for five-year terms; election last held 8 June 2006 (next to be held
  in 2011); prime minister nominated by president and elected by
  National Assembly for five-year term
  election results: CHOUMMALI Saignason elected president; BOUN-GNANG
  Volachit elected vice president; percent of National Assembly vote -
  100%; BOUASONE Bouphavanh elected prime minister; percent of
  National Assembly vote - 97%

Latvia
  chief of state: President Valdis ZATLERS (since 8 July 2007)
  head of government: Prime Minister Ivars GODMANIS (since 20 December
  2007)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers nominated by the prime minister and
  appointed by Parliament
  elections: president elected by Parliament for a four-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 31 May 2007 (next
  to be held in 2011); prime minister appointed by the president,
  confirmed by Parliament
  election results: Valdis ZATLERS elected president; parliamentary
  vote - Valdis ZATLERS 58, Aivars ENDZINS 39

Lebanon
  chief of state: President Michel SULAYMAN (as of 25 May 2008)
  head of government: Prime Minister Fuad SINIORA (since 30 June
  2005); Deputy Prime Minister Elias MURR (since April 2005)
  cabinet: Cabinet chosen by the prime minister in consultation with
  the president and members of the National Assembly
  elections: president elected by the National Assembly for a six-year
  term (may not serve consecutive terms); election last held 25 May
  2008 (next to be held in 2014); the prime minister and deputy prime
  minister appointed by the president in consultation with the
  National Assembly
  election results: Michel SULAYMAN elected president; National
  Assembly vote - 118 for, 6 abstentions, 3 invalidated

Lesotho
  chief of state: King LETSIE III (since 7 February 1996);
  note - King LETSIE III formerly occupied the throne from November
  1990 to February 1995 while his father was in exile
  head of government: Prime Minister Pakalitha MOSISILI (since 23 May
  1998)
  cabinet: Cabinet
  elections: according to the constitution, the leader of the majority
  party in the Assembly automatically becomes prime minister; the
  monarch is hereditary, but, under the terms of the constitution that
  came into effect after the March 1993 election, the monarch is a
  "living symbol of national unity" with no executive or legislative
  powers; under traditional law the college of chiefs has the power to
  depose the monarch, determine who is next in the line of succession,
  or who shall serve as regent in the event that the successor is not
  of mature age

Liberia
  chief of state: President Ellen JOHNSON SIRLEAF (since 16
  January 2006); note - the President is both the chief of state and
  head of government
  head of government: President Ellen JOHNSON SIRLEAF (since 16
  January 2006)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president and confirmed by the
  Senate
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a six-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 8 November 2005
  (next to be held in 2011)
  election results: Ellen JOHNSON SIRLEAF elected president; percent
  of vote, second round - Ellen JOHNSON SIRLEAF 59.6%, George WEAH
  40.4%

Libya
  chief of state: Revolutionary Leader Col. Muammar Abu Minyar
  al-QADHAFI (since 1 September 1969); note - holds no official title,
  but is de facto chief of state
  head of government: Secretary of the General People's Committee
  (Prime Minister) al-Baghdadi Ali al-MAHMUDI (since 5 March 2006)
  cabinet: General People's Committee established by the General
  People's Congress
  elections: national elections are indirect through a hierarchy of
  people's committees; head of government elected by the General
  People's Congress; election last held March 2006 (next to be held NA)
  election results: NA

Liechtenstein
  chief of state: Prince HANS ADAM II (since 13 November
  1989, assumed executive powers 26 August 1984); Heir Apparent Prince
  ALOIS, son of the monarch (born 11 June 1968); note - on 15 August
  2004, HANS ADAM transferred the official duties of the ruling prince
  to ALOIS, but HANS ADAM retains status of chief of state
  head of government: Head of Government (Prime Minister) Otmar HASLER
  (since 5 April 2001); Deputy Head of Government (Deputy Prime
  Minister) Klaus TSCHUETSCHER (since 21 April 2005)
  cabinet: Cabinet elected by the Parliament, confirmed by the monarch
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; following legislative
  elections, the leader of the majority party in the Landtag is
  usually appointed the head of government by the monarch and the
  leader of the largest minority party in the Landtag is usually
  appointed the deputy head of government by the monarch if there is a
  coalition government

Lithuania
  chief of state: President Valdas ADAMKUS (since 12 July
  2004)
  head of government: Prime Minister Andrius KUBILIUS (since 27
  November 2008)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
  nomination of the prime minister
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 13 and 27 June 2004
  (next to be held in June 2009); prime minister appointed by the
  president on the approval of the Parliament
  election results: Valdas ADAMKUS elected president; percent of vote
  - Valdas ADAMKUS 52.2%, Kazimiera PRUNSKIENE 47.8%; Andrius KUBILIUS
  approved by Parliament 89-27 with 16 abstentions

Luxembourg
  chief of state: Grand Duke HENRI (since 7 October 2000);
  Heir Apparent Prince GUILLAUME (son of the monarch)
  head of government: Prime Minister Jean-Claude JUNCKER (since 20
  January 1995); Deputy Prime Minister Jean ASSELBORN (since 31 July
  2004)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers recommended by the prime minister and
  appointed by the monarch
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; following popular elections to
  the Chamber of Deputies, the leader of the majority party or the
  leader of the majority coalition is usually appointed prime minister
  by the monarch; the deputy prime minister is appointed by the
  monarch; they are responsible to the Chamber of Deputies
  note: government coalition - CSV and LSAP

Macau
  chief of state: President of China HU Jintao (since 15 March
  2003)
  head of government: Chief Executive Edmund HO Hau-wah (since 20
  December 1999)
  cabinet: Executive Council consists of one government secretary,
  three legislators, four businessmen, one pro-Beijing unionist, and
  one pro-Beijing educator
  elections: chief executive chosen by a 300-member Election Committee
  for a five-year term (eligible for a second term); election last
  held 29 August 2004 (next to be held in 2009)
  election results: Edmund HO Hau-wah reelected received 296 votes;
  three members submitted blank ballots; one member was absent

Macedonia
  chief of state: President Branko CRVENKOVSKI (since 12 May
  2004)
  head of government: Prime Minister Nikola GRUEVSKI (since 26 August
  2006)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers elected by the majority vote of all
  the deputies in the Assembly; note - current cabinet formed by the
  government coalition parties VMRO/DPMNE, NSDP, PDSh/DPA, and several
  small parties
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (eligible for a second term); two-round election last held 14 April
  and 28 April 2004 (next to be held by April 2009); prime minister
  elected by the Assembly following legislative elections
  election results: Branko CRVENKOVSKI elected president on
  second-round ballot; percent of vote - Branko CRVENKOVSKI 62.7%,
  Sasko KEDEV 37.3%

Madagascar
  chief of state: President Marc RAVALOMANANA (since 6 May
  2002)
  head of government: Prime Minister Charles RABEMANANJARA (25 January
  2007)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 3 December 2006
  (next to be held in December 2011); prime minister appointed by the
  president
  election results: percent of vote - Marc RAVALOMANANA 54.8%, Jean
  LAHINIRIKO 11.7%, Roland RATSIRAKA 10.1%, Herizo RAZAFIMAHALEO 9.1%,
  Norbert RATSIRAHONANA 4.2%, Ny Hasina ANDRIAMANJATO 4.2%, Elia
  RAVELOMANANTSOA 2.6%, Pety RAKOTONIAINA 1.7%, other 1.6%

Malawi
  chief of state: President Bingu wa MUTHARIKA (since 24 May
  2004); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government
  head of government: President Bingu wa MUTHARIKA (since 24 May 2004)
  cabinet: 46-member Cabinet named by the president
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 20 May 2004 (next
  to be held in May 2009)
  election results: Bingu wa MUTHARIKA elected president; percent of
  vote - Bingu wa MUTHARIKA 35.9%, John TEMBO 27.1%, Gwandaguluwe
  CHAKUAMBA 25.7%, Brown MPINGANJIRA 8.7%, Justin MALEWEZI 2.5%

Malaysia
  chief of state: Paramount Ruler Sultan MIZAN Zainal Abidin
  (since 13 December 2006)
  head of government: Prime Minister ABDULLAH bin Ahmad Badawi (since
  31 October 2003); Deputy Prime Minister Mohamed NAJIB bin Abdul
  Razak (since 7 January 2004)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the prime minister from among the
  members of Parliament with consent of the paramount ruler
  elections: paramount ruler elected by and from the hereditary rulers
  of nine of the states for five-year terms; election last held on 3
  November 2006 (next to be held in 2011); prime minister designated
  from among the members of the House of Representatives; following
  legislative elections, the leader of the party that wins a plurality
  of seats in the House of Representatives becomes prime minister
  election results: Sultan MIZAN Zainal Abidin elected paramount ruler
  note: position of paramount ruler is primarily ceremonial; in
  practice, selection is based on principle of rotation among rulers
  of states

Maldives
  chief of state: President Mohamed NASHEED (since 11
  November 2008); Vice President (vacant); note - the president is
  both the chief of state and head of government
  head of government: President Mohamed NASHEED (since 11 November
  2008); Vice President (vacant)
  cabinet: Cabinet of Ministers appointed by the president
  elections: under the new constitution, the president is elected by
  direct vote; president elected for a five-year term (eligible for a
  second term); election last held 8 and 28 October 2008 (next to be
  held in 2013)
  election results: Mohamed NASHEED elected president; percent of vote
  - NASHEED 54.25%, Maumoon Abdul GAYOOM 45.75%; note - NASHEED is
  expected to assume office on 11 November 2008

Mali
  chief of state: President Amadou Toumani TOURE (since 8 June
  2002)
  head of government: Prime Minister Modibo SIDIBE (since 28 September
  2007)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held on 29 April 2007
  (next to be held in April 2012); prime minister appointed by the
  president
  election results: Amadou Toumani TOURE reelected president; percent
  of vote - Amadou Toumani TOURE 71.2%, Ibrahim Boubacar KEITA 19.2%,
  other 9.6%

Malta
  chief of state: President Edward FENECH ADAMI (since 4 April
  2004)
  head of government: Prime Minister Lawrence GONZI (since 23 March
  2004)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president on the advice of the
  prime minister
  elections: president elected by the House of Representatives for a
  five-year term (eligible for a second term); election last held on
  29 March 2004 (next to be held by April 2009); following legislative
  elections, the leader of the majority party or leader of a majority
  coalition is usually appointed prime minister by the president for a
  five-year term; the deputy prime minister is appointed by the
  president on the advice of the prime minister
  election results: Eddie FENECH ADAMI elected president; House of
  Representatives vote - 33 out of 65 votes

Marshall Islands
  chief of state: President Litokwa TOMEING (since 7
  January 2008); note - the president is both the chief of state and
  head of government
  head of government: President Litokwa TOMEING (since 7 January 2008)
  cabinet: Cabinet selected by the president from among the members of
  the legislature
  elections: president elected by Parliament from among its members
  for a four-year term; election last held 7 January 2008 (next to be
  held in 2012)
  election results: Litokwa TOMEING elected president; TOMEING
  received 18 votes to 15 for incumbent Kessai Hesa NOTE

Mauritania
  chief of state: Gen. Mohamed Ould Abdel AZIZ who led a
  coup that deposed the democratically elected President Sidi Ould
  Cheikh ABDELLAHI on 6 August 2008
  head of government: Prime Minister Moulaye Ould Mohamed LAGHDAF
  (since 14 August 2008)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (eligible for a second consecutive term); election last held 11
  March 2007 with a runoff between the two leading candidates held on
  25 March 2007 (next to be held 2012); prime minister appointed by
  the president
  election results: percent of vote - (second round) Sidi Ould Cheikh
  ABDELLAHI 52.8%, Ahmed Ould DADDAH 47.2%

Mauritius
  chief of state: President Sir Anerood JUGNAUTH (since 7
  October 2003); Vice President Abdool Raouf BUNDHUN (since 25
  February 2002)
  head of government: Prime Minister Navinchandra RAMGOOLAM (since 5
  July 2005)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
  recommendation of the prime minister
  elections: president and vice president elected by the National
  Assembly for five-year terms (eligible for a second term); election
  last held 19 September 2008 (next to be held in 2013); prime
  minister and deputy prime minister appointed by the president,
  responsible to the National Assembly
  election results: Sir Anerood JUGNAUTH reelected president by
  unanimous vote; percent of vote by the National Assembly - NA%

Mayotte
  chief of state: President Nicolas SARKOZY (since 16 May
  2007); represented by Prefect Denis ROBIN (since 28 July 2008)
  head of government: President of the General Council Said Omar OILI
  (since 8 April 2004)
  cabinet: NA
  elections: French president elected by popular vote for a five-year
  term; prefect appointed by the French president on the advice of the
  French Ministry of the Interior; president of the General Council
  elected by the members of the General Council for a six-year term;
  next election to be held in 2010

Mexico
  chief of state: President Felipe de Jesus CALDERON Hinojosa
  (since 1 December 2006); note - the president is both the chief of
  state and head of government
  head of government: President Felipe de Jesus CALDERON Hinojosa
  (since 1 December 2006)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president; note - appointment of
  attorney general requires consent of the Senate
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a single six-year
  term; election last held on 2 July 2006 (next to be held 1 July 2012)
  election results: Felipe CALDERON elected president; percent of vote
  - Felipe CALDERON 35.89%, Andres Manuel LOPEZ OBRADOR 35.31%,
  Roberto MADRAZO 22.26%, other 6.54%

Micronesia, Federated States of
  chief of state: President Emanuel
  MORI (since 11 May 2007); Vice President Alik L. ALIK (since 11 May
  2007); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government
  head of government: President Emanuel MORI (since 11 May 2007); Vice
  President Alik L. ALIK (since 11 May 2007)
  cabinet: Cabinet includes the vice president and the heads of the
  eight executive departments
  elections: president and vice president elected by Congress from
  among the four senators at large for a four-year term (eligible for
  a second term); election last held 11 May 2007 (next to be held May
  2011); note - a proposed constitutional amendment to establish
  popular elections for president and vice president failed
  election results: Emanuel MORI elected president; percent of
  Congress vote - NA; Alik L. ALIK elected vice president; percent of
  Congress vote - NA

Moldova
  chief of state: President Vladimir VORONIN (since 4 April
  2001)
  head of government: Prime Minister Zinaida GRECEANII (since 31 March
  2008); First Deputy Prime Minister Igor DODON (since 31 March 2008)
  cabinet: Cabinet selected by president, subject to approval of
  Parliament
  elections: president elected by Parliament for a four-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 4 April 2005 (next
  to be held in 2009); note - prime minister designated by the
  president upon consultation with Parliament; within 15 days from
  designation, the prime minister-designate must request a vote of
  confidence from the Parliament regarding his/her work program and
  entire cabinet; prime minister designated 21 March 2008; cabinet
  received a vote of confidence 31 March 2008
  election results: Vladimir VORONIN reelected president;
  parliamentary votes - Vladimir VORONIN 75, Gheorghe DUCA 1; Zinaida
  GRECEANII designated prime minister; parliamentary votes of
  confidence - 56 of 101

Monaco
  chief of state: Prince ALBERT II (since 6 April 2005)
  head of government: Minister of State Jean-Paul PROUST (since 1 June
  2005)
  cabinet: Council of Government is under the authority of the monarch
  elections: the monarchy is hereditary; minister of state appointed
  by the monarch from a list of three French national candidates
  presented by the French Government

Mongolia
  chief of state: President Nambaryn ENKHBAYAR (since 24 June
  2005)
  head of government: Prime Minister Sanjaa BAYAR (since 22 November
  2007); First Deputy Prime Minister (Norov ALTANKHUYAG (since 27
  September 2008); Vice Prime Minister Miegombyn ENKHBOLD (since 6
  December 2007)
  cabinet: Cabinet nominated by the prime minister in consultation
  with the president and confirmed by the State Great Hural
  (parliament)
  elections: presidential candidates nominated by political parties
  represented in State Great Hural and elected by popular vote for a
  four-year term (eligible for a second term); election last held 22
  May 2005 (next to be held in May 2009); following legislative
  elections, leader of majority party or majority coalition is usually
  elected prime minister by State Great Hural
  election results: Nambaryn ENKHBAYAR elected president; percent of
  vote - Nambaryn ENKHBAYAR 53.44%, Mendsaikhanin ENKHSAIKHAN 20.05%,
  Bazarsadyn JARGALSAIKHAN 13.92%, Badarchyn ERDENEBAT 12.59%;
  Miegombyn ENKHBOLD elected prime minister by the State Great Hural
  56 to 10

Montenegro
  chief of state: President Filip VUJANOVIC (since 11 May
  2003)
  head of government: Prime Minister Milo DJUKANOVIC (since 29
  February 2008)
  cabinet: Ministries act as cabinet
  elections: president elected by direct vote for five-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 6 April 2008 (next
  to be held in 2013); prime minister proposed by president, accepted
  by Assembly
  election results: Filip VUJANOVIC reelected president; Filip
  VUJANOVIC 51.89%, Andrija MANDIC 19.55%, Nebojsa MEDOJEVIC 16.64%,
  Srdan MILIC 11.92%

Montserrat
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February
  1952); represented by Governor Peter A. WATERWORTH (since 27 July
  2007)
  head of government: Chief Minister Lowell LEWIS (since 2 June 2006)
  cabinet: Executive Council consists of the governor, the chief
  minister, three other ministers, the attorney general, and the
  finance secretary
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor appointed by the
  monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the majority
  party usually becomes chief minister

Morocco
  chief of state: King MOHAMED VI (since 30 July 1999)
  head of government: Prime Minister Abbas EL FASSI (since 19
  September 2007)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the monarch
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; prime minister appointed by
  the monarch following legislative elections

Mozambique
  chief of state: President Armando GUEBUZA (since 2
  February 2005)
  head of government: Prime Minister Luisa DIOGO (since 17 February
  2004)
  cabinet: Cabinet
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 1-2 December 2004
  (next to be held in December 2009); prime minister appointed by the
  president
  election results: Armando GUEBUZA elected president; percent of vote
  - Armando GUEBUZA 63.7%, Afonso DHLAKAMA 31.7%

Namibia
  chief of state: President Hifikepunye POHAMBA (since 21
  March 2005)
  head of government: Prime Minister Nahas ANGULA (since 21 March 2005)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president from among the members
  of the National Assembly
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 15 November 2004
  (next to be held in November 2009)
  election results: Hifikepunye POHAMBA elected president; percent of
  vote - Hifikepunye POHAMBA 76.4%, Den ULENGA 7.3%, Katuutire KAURA
  5.1%, Kuaima RIRUAKO 4.2%, Justus GAROEB 3.8%, other 3.2%

Nauru
  chief of state: President Marcus STEPHEN (since 19 December
  2007); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government
  head of government: President Marcus STEPHEN (since 19 December
  2007); note - President Ludwig SCOTTY defeated in a no confidence
  vote in parliament on 19 December 2007
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president from among the members
  of Parliament
  elections: president elected by Parliament for a three-year term;
  election last held 19 December 2007 (next to be held in 2010)
  election results: NA

Nepal
  chief of state: President Ram Baran YADAV (as of 23 July
  2008); Vice President Paramananda JHA (as of 23 July 2008)
  head of government: Prime Minister Pushpa Kamal DAHAL (as of 18
  August 2008); Deputy Prime Minister Bamdev GAUTAM
  cabinet: selected by the prime minister
  elections: president elected by Parliament; term NA; election last
  held 21 July 2008
  election results: Ram Baran YADAV elected president by the
  Constituent Assembly in a second round of voting on 21 July 2008;
  Ram Baran YADAV 308, Ram Jaja Prasad SINGH 282

Netherlands
  chief of state: Queen BEATRIX (since 30 April 1980);
  Heir Apparent WILLEM-ALEXANDER (born 27 April 1967), son of the
  monarch
  head of government: Prime Minister Jan Peter BALKENENDE (since 22
  July 2002); Deputy Prime Ministers Wouter BOS (since 22 February
  2007) and Andre ROUVOET (since 22 February 2007)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the monarch
  elections: the monarchy is hereditary; following Second Chamber
  elections, the leader of the majority party or leader of a majority
  coalition is usually appointed prime minister by the monarch; deputy
  prime ministers appointed by the monarch
  note: there is also a Council of State composed of the monarch, heir
  apparent, and councilors that provides consultations to the cabinet
  on legislative and administrative policy

Netherlands Antilles
  chief of state: Queen BEATRIX of the
  Netherlands (since 30 April 1980); represented by Governor General
  Frits GOEDGEDRAG (since 1 July 2002)
  head of government: Prime Minister Emily de JONGH-ELHAGE (since 26
  March 2006)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers elected by the Staten (legislature)
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor general appointed by
  the monarch for a six-year term; following legislative elections,
  the leader of the majority party is usually elected prime minister
  by the Staten; election last held 27 January 2006 (next to be held
  by 2010)
  note: government coalition - PAR, PNP, DP-St. M, UPB, WIPM Saba,
  DP-St. E

New Caledonia
  chief of state: President Nicolas SARKOZY (since 16
  May 2007); represented by High Commissioner Yves DASSONVILLE (since
  9 November 2007)
  head of government: President of the Government Harold MARTIN (since
  7 August 2007)
  cabinet: Cabinet consisting of 11 members elected from and by the
  Territorial Congress
  elections: French president elected by popular vote for a five-year
  term; high commissioner appointed by the French president on the
  advice of the French Ministry of Interior; president of the
  government elected by the members of the Territorial Congress for a
  five-year term (no term limits); note - last election held 7 August
  2007 when Harold MARTIN was elected following the resignation of
  Marie-Noelle THEMEREAU as president on 24 July 2007 (next to be held
  in 2012)

New Zealand
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February
  1952); represented by Governor General Anand SATYANAND (since 23
  August 2006)
  head of government: Prime Minister John KEY (since 19 November
  2008); Deputy Prime Minister Bill ENGLISH (since 19 November 2008)
  cabinet: Executive Council appointed by the governor general on the
  recommendation of the prime minister
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor general appointed by
  the monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the
  majority party or the leader of a majority coalition is usually
  appointed prime minister by the governor general; deputy prime
  minister appointed by the governor general

Nicaragua
  chief of state: President Daniel ORTEGA Saavedra (since 10
  January 2007); Vice President Jaime MORALES Carazo (since 10 January
  2007); note - the president is both chief of state and head of
  government
  head of government: President Daniel ORTEGA Saavedra (since 10
  January 2007); Vice President Jaime MORALES Carazo (since 10 January
  2007)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
  elections: president and vice president elected on the same ticket
  by popular vote for a five-year term (eligible for a second term so
  long as it is not consecutive); election last held 5 November 2006
  (next to be held by November 2011)
  election results: Daniel ORTEGA Saavedra elected president - 38.07%,
  Eduardo MONTEALEGRE 29%, Jose RIZO 26.21%, Edmundo JARQUIN 6.44%

Niger
  chief of state: President Mamadou TANDJA (since 22 December
  1999)
  head of government: Prime Minister Seyni OUMAROU (since 3 June
  2007); appointed by the president and shares some executive
  responsibilities with the president
  cabinet: 26-member Cabinet appointed by the president
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (eligible for a second term); second round of election last held 4
  December 2004 (next to be held December 2009)
  election results: Mamadou TANDJA reelected president; percent of
  vote - Mamadou TANDJA 65.5%, Mahamadou ISSOUFOU 34.5%

Nigeria
  chief of state: President Umaru Musa YAR'ADUA (since 29 May
  2007); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government
  head of government: President Umaru Musa YAR'ADUA (since 29 May 2007)
  cabinet: Federal Executive Council
  elections: president is elected by popular vote for a four-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 21 April 2007 (next
  to be held in April 2011)
  election results: Umaru Musa YAR'ADUA elected president; percent of
  vote - Umaru Musa YAR'ADUA 69.8%, Muhammadu BUHARI 18.7%, Atiku
  ABUBAKAR 7.5%, Orji Uzor KALU 1.7%, other 2.3%

Niue
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
  represented by Governor General of New Zealand Anand SATYANAND
  (since 23 August 2006); the UK and New Zealand are represented by
  New Zealand High Commissioner John BRYAN (since May 2000)
  head of government: Premier Toke TALAGI (since 18 June 2008)
  cabinet: Cabinet consists of the premier and three ministers
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; premier elected by the
  Legislative Assembly for a three-year term; election last held 18
  June 2008 (next to be held in 2011)
  election results: Toke TALAGI defeats incumbent Young VIVIAN in
  Legislative Assembly vote; Toke TALAGI - 14, Young VIVIAN - 5

Norfolk Island
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February
  1952); represented by the Australian governor general
  head of government: Acting Administrator Owen WALSH (since October
  2007)
  cabinet: Executive Council is made up of four of the nine members of
  the Legislative Assembly; the council devises government policy and
  acts as an advisor to the administrator
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; administrator appointed by the
  governor general of Australia and represents the monarch and
  Australia

Northern Mariana Islands
  chief of state: President George W. BUSH of
  the US (since 20 January 2001); Vice President Richard B. CHENEY
  (since 20 January 2001)
  head of government: Governor Benigno R. FITIAL (since 9 January
  2006); Lieutenant Governor Timothy P. VILLAGOMEZ (since 9 January
  2006)
  cabinet: the cabinet consists of the heads of the 10 principal
  departments under the executive branch who are appointed by the
  governor with the advice and consent of the Senate; other members
  include Special Assistants to the governor and office heads
  appointed by and reporting directly to the governor
  elections: under the US Constitution, residents of unincorporated
  territories, such as the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
  Islands, do not vote in elections for US president and vice
  president; however, they may vote in the Democratic and Republican
  presidential primary elections; governor and lieutenant governor
  elected on the same ticket by popular vote for four-year terms
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 5 November 2005
  (next to be held in November 2009)
  election results: Benigno R. FITIAL elected governor in a four-way
  race; percent of vote - Benigno R. FITIAL 28.07%, Heinz HOFSCHNEIDER
  27.34%, Juan BABAUTA 26.6%, Froilan TENORIO 17.99%

Norway
  chief of state: King HARALD V (since 17 January 1991); Heir
  Apparent Crown Prince HAAKON MAGNUS, son of the monarch (born 20
  July 1973)
  head of government: Prime Minister Jens STOLTENBERG (since 17
  October 2005)
  cabinet: State Council appointed by the monarch with the approval of
  parliament
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; following parliamentary
  elections, the leader of the majority party or the leader of the
  majority coalition is usually appointed prime minister by the
  monarch with the approval of the parliament

Oman
  chief of state: Sultan and Prime Minister QABOOS bin Said
  al-Said (sultan since 23 July 1970 and prime minister since 23 July
  1972); note - the monarch is both the chief of state and head of
  government
  head of government: Sultan and Prime Minister QABOOS bin Said
  al-Said (sultan since 23 July 1970 and prime minister since 23 July
  1972)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the monarch
  elections: the monarch is hereditary

Pakistan
  chief of state: President Asif Ali ZARDARI (since 6
  September 2008)
  head of government: Prime Minister Syed Yousuf Raza GILANI (since 25
  March 2008)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president upon the advice of the
  prime minister
  elections: the president is elected by secret ballot through an
  Electoral College comprising the members of the Senate, National
  Assembly, and the provincial assemblies for a five-year term;
  election last held on 6 September 2008 (next to be held not later
  than 2013); note - any person who is a Muslim and not less than 45
  years of age and is qualified to be elected as a member of the
  National Assembly can contest the presidential election; the prime
  minister is selected by the National Assembly; election last held on
  24 March 2008
  election results: ZARDARI elected; ZARDARI 481 votes, SIDDIQUI 153
  votes, HUSSAIN 44 votes; GILANI elected prime minister; GILANI 264
  votes, Pervaiz ELAHI 42 votes; several abstentions

Palau
  chief of state: President Tommy Esang REMENGESAU, Jr. (since
  19 January 2001); Vice President Camsek CHIN (since 1 January 2005);
  note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government
  head of government: President Tommy Esang REMENGESAU, Jr. (since 19
  January 2001); Vice President Camsek CHIN (since 1 January 2005)
  cabinet: NA
  elections: president and vice president elected on separate tickets
  by popular vote for four-year terms (eligible for a second term);
  election last held 4 November 2008 (next to be held in November 2012)
  election results: Johnson TORIBIONG (51%) defeats Elias Camsek CHIN
  (49%) for president; Kerai MARIUR elected vice president

Panama
  chief of state: President Martin TORRIJOS Espino (since 1
  September 2004); First Vice President Samuel LEWIS Navarro (since 1
  September 2004); Second Vice President Ruben AROSEMENA Valdes (since
  1 September 2004); note - the president is both the chief of state
  and head of government
  head of government: President Martin TORRIJOS Espino (since 1
  September 2004); First Vice President Samuel LEWIS Navarro (since 1
  September 2004); Second Vice President Ruben AROSEMENA Valdes (since
  1 September 2004)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president
  elections: president and vice presidents elected on the same ticket
  by popular vote for five-year terms (not eligible for immediate
  reelection; president and vice presidents must sit out two
  additional terms (10 years) before becoming eligible for
  reelection); election last held 2 May 2004 (next to be held on 3 May
  2009); note - beginning in 2009, Panama will have only one vice
  president
  election results: Martin TORRIJOS Espino elected president; percent
  of vote - Martin TORRIJOS Espino 47.5%, Guillermo ENDARA Galimany
  30.6%, Jose Miguel ALEMAN 17%, Ricardo MARTINELLI 4.9%
  note: government coalition - PRD (Democratic Revolutionary Party),
  PP (Popular Party)

Papua New Guinea
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
  February 1952); represented by governor general Sir Paulius MATANE
  (since 29 June 2004)
  head of government: Prime Minister Sir Michael SOMARE (since 2
  August 2002); Deputy Prime Minister Puka TEMU (since 29 August 2007)
  cabinet: National Executive Council appointed by governor general on
  recommendation of prime minister
  elections: monarch is hereditary; governor general nominated by
  parliament and appointed by chief of state; following legislative
  elections, leader of majority party or leader of majority coalition
  usually is appointed prime minister by governor general

Paraguay
  chief of state: President Fernando Armindo LUGO Mendez
  (since 15 August 2008); Vice President Federico FRANCO (since 15
  August 2008); note - the president is both the chief of state and
  head of government
  head of government: President Fernando Armindo LUGO Mendez (since 15
  August 2008); Vice President Federico FRANCO (since 15 August 2008)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
  elections: president and vice president elected on the same ticket
  by popular vote for a single five-year term; election last held 20
  April 2008 (next to be held April 2013)
  election results: Fernando Armindo LUGO Mendez elected president;
  percent of vote - Fernando Armindo LUGO Mendez 40.8%, Blanca OVELAR
  30.6%, Lino OVIEDO 21.9%, Pedro FADUL 2.4%, other 4.3%

Peru
  chief of state: President Alan GARCIA Perez (since 28 July
  2006); First Vice President Luis GIAMPIETRI Rojas; Second Vice
  President Lourdes MENDOZA del Solar (since 28 July 2006); note - the
  president is both the chief of state and head of government
  head of government: President Alan GARCIA Perez (since 28 July
  2006); First Vice President Luis GIAMPIETRI Rojas; Second Vice
  President Lourdes MENDOZA del Solar (since 28 July 2006)
  note: Prime Minister Yehude SIMON Munaro (since 14 October 2008)
  does not exercise executive power; this power is in the hands of the
  president
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (eligible for a nonconsecutive reelection); presidential and
  congressional elections held 9 April 2006 with runoff election held
  4 June 2006; next to be held in April 2011
  election results: Alan GARCIA elected president in runoff election;
  percent of vote - Alan GARCIA 52.5%, Ollanta HUMALA Tasso 47.5%

Philippines
  chief of state: President Gloria MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (since
  20 January 2001); note - president is both chief of state and head
  of government
  head of government: President Gloria MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (since 20
  January 2001)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president with consent of
  Commission of Appointments
  elections: president and vice president (Manuel "Noli" DE CASTRO)
  elected on separate tickets by popular vote for a single six-year
  term; election last held on 10 May 2004 (next to be held in May 2010)
  election results: Gloria MACAPAGAL-ARROYO elected president; percent
  of vote - Gloria MACAPAGAL-ARROYO 40%, Fernando POE 37%, three
  others 23%

Pitcairn Islands
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
  February 1952); represented by UK High Commissioner to New Zealand
  and Governor (nonresident) of the Pitcairn Islands George FERGUSSON
  (since April 2006); Commissioner (nonresident) Leslie JAQUES (since
  September 2003) serves as liaison between the governor and the
  Island Council
  head of government: Governor George FERGUSSON (since April 2006);
  Mayor and Chairman of the Island Council Mike WARREN (since 1
  January 2008)
  cabinet: NA
  elections: the monarchy is hereditary; governor and commissioner
  appointed by the monarch; island mayor elected by popular vote for a
  three-year term; election last held December 2004 (next to be held
  in December 2007)
  election results: Jay WARREN elected mayor and chairman of the
  Island Council

Poland
  chief of state: President Lech KACZYNSKI (since 23 December
  2005)
  head of government: Prime Minister Donald TUSK (since 16 November
  2007); Deputy Prime Ministers Waldemar PAWLAK (since 16 November
  2007) and Grzegorz SCHETYNA (since 16 November 2007)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers responsible to the prime minister and
  the Sejm; the prime minister proposes, the president appoints, and
  the Sejm approves the Council of Ministers
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 9 and 23 October
  2005 (next to be held in the fall 2010); prime minister and deputy
  prime ministers appointed by the president and confirmed by the Sejm
  election results: Lech KACZYNSKI elected president; percent of
  popular vote - Lech KACZYNSKI 54%, Donald Tusk 46%

Portugal
  chief of state: President Anibal CAVACO SILVA (since 9
  March 2006)
  head of government: Prime Minister Jose SOCRATES Carvalho Pinto de
  Sousa (since 12 March 2005)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
  recommendation of the prime minister
  note: there is also a Council of State that acts as a consultative
  body to the president
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 22 January 2006
  (next to be held in January 2011); following legislative elections,
  the leader of the majority party or leader of a majority coalition
  is usually appointed prime minister by the president
  election results: Anibal CAVACO SILVA elected president; percent of
  vote - Anibal CAVACO SILVA 50.6%, Manuel ALEGRE 20.7%, Mario Alberto
  Nobre Lopes SOARES 14.3%, Jeronimo DE SOUSA 8.5%, Franciso LOUCA 5.3%

Puerto Rico
  chief of state: President George W. BUSH of the US
  (since 20 January 2001); Vice President Richard B. CHENEY (since 20
  January 2001)
  head of government: Governor Anibal ACEVEDO-VILA (since 2 January
  2005)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the governor with the consent of the
  legislature
  elections: under the US Constitution, residents of unincorporated
  territories, such as Puerto Rico, do not vote in elections for US
  president and vice president; however, they may vote in Democratic
  and Republican presidential primary elections; governor elected by
  popular vote for a four-year term (no term limits); election last
  held 4 November 2008 (next to be held in November 2012)
  election results: Luis FORTUNO elected governor with 52.8% of the
  vote, he will take office on 2 January 2009

Qatar
  chief of state: Amir HAMAD bin Khalifa Al-Thani (since 27 June
  1995 when, as heir apparent, he ousted his father, Amir KHALIFA bin
  Hamad Al-Thani, in a bloodless coup); Heir Apparent TAMIM bin Hamad
  bin Khalifa Al-Thani, fourth son of the monarch (selected Heir
  Apparent by the monarch on 5 August 2003); note - Amir HAMAD also
  holds the positions of Minister of Defense and Commander-in-Chief of
  the Armed Forces
  head of government: Prime Minister HAMAD bin Jasim bin Jabir
  Al-Thani (since 3 April 2007); Deputy Prime Minister Abdallah bin
  Hamad al-ATIYAH (since 3 April 2007)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the monarch
  elections: the monarch is hereditary
  note: in April 2007, Qatar held nationwide elections for a 29-member
  Central Municipal Council (CMC), which has limited consultative
  powers aimed at improving the provision of municipal services; the
  first election for the CMC was held in March 1999

Romania
  chief of state: President Traian BASESCU (since 20 December
  2004); note - President Traian BASESCU was suspended by vote of
  parliament on 19 April 2007, but resumed his duties on 23 May 2007
  after a popular referendum confirmed that his impeachment should not
  stand
  head of government: Prime Minister Calin Popescu-TARICEANU (since 29
  December 2004)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 28 November 2004
  with runoff between the top two candidates held 12 December 2004
  (next to be held in November-December 2009); prime minister
  appointed by the president with the consent of the Parliament
  election results: percent of vote - Traian BASESCU 51.23%, Adrian
  NASTASE 48.77%

Russia
  chief of state: President Dmitriy Anatolyevich MEDVEDEV
  (since 7 May 2008)
  head of government: Premier Vladimir Vladimirovich PUTIN (since 8
  May 2008); First Deputy Premiers Igor Ivanovich SHUVALOV and Viktor
  Alekseyevich ZUBKOV (since 12 May 2008); Deputy Premiers Sergey
  Borisovich IVANOV (since 12 May 2008), Dmitriy Nikolayevich KOZAK
  (since 14 October 2008), Aleksey Leonidovich KUDRIN (since 24
  September 2007), Igor Ivanovich SECHIN (since 12 May 2008), Sergey
  Semenovich SOBYANIN (since 12 May 2008), Aleksandr Dmitriyevich
  ZHUKOV (since 9 March 2004), and Dmitry Nikolayevich KOZAK (since 14
  October 2008)
  cabinet: Ministries of the Government or "Government" composed of
  the premier and his deputies, ministers, and selected other
  individuals; all are appointed by the president
  note: there is also a Presidential Administration (PA) that provides
  staff and policy support to the president, drafts presidential
  decrees, and coordinates policy among government agencies; a
  Security Council also reports directly to the president
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a four-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 2 March 2008 (next
  to be held in March 2012); note - no vice president; if the
  president dies in office, cannot exercise his powers because of ill
  health, is impeached, or resigns, the premier serves as acting
  president until a new presidential election is held, which must be
  within three months; premier appointed by the president with the
  approval of the Duma
  election results: Dmitriy MEDVEDEV elected president; percent of
  vote - Dmitry MEDVEDEV 70.2%, Gennady ZYUGANOV 17.7%, Vladimir
  ZHIRINOVSKY 9.4%, Andrey BOGDONOV 1.3%

Rwanda
  chief of state: President Paul KAGAME (since 22 April 2000)
  head of government: Prime Minister Bernard MAKUZA (since 8 March
  2000)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
  elections: President elected by popular vote for a seven-year term
  (eligible for a second term); elections last held 25 August 2003
  (next to be held in 2010)
  election results: Paul KAGAME elected president in first direct
  popular vote; Paul KAGAME 95.05%, Faustin TWAGIRAMUNGU 3.62%,
  Jean-Nepomuscene NAYINZIRA 1.33%

Saint Barthelemy
  chief of state: President Nicolas SARKOZY (since 16
  May 2007), represented by Prefect Dominique LACROIX (since 21 March
  2007)
  head of government: President of the Territorial Council Bruno
  MAGRAS (since 16 July 2007)
  cabinet: Executive Council; note - there is also an advisory,
  economic, social, and cultural council
  elections: French president elected by popular vote for a five-year
  term; prefect appointed by the French president on the advice of the
  French Ministry of Interior; president of the Territorial Council is
  elected by the members of the Council for a five-year term
  election results: Bruno MAGRAS unanimously elected president by the
  Territorial Council on 16 July 2007

Saint Helena
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February
  1952)
  head of government: Governor and Commander in Chief Andrew GURR
  (since 11 November 2007)
  cabinet: Executive Council consists of the governor, three
  ex-officio officers, and five elected members of the Legislative
  Council
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor is appointed by the
  monarch

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
  February 1952); represented by Governor General Cuthbert Montraville
  SEBASTIAN (since 1 January 1996)
  head of government: Prime Minister Dr. Denzil DOUGLAS (since 6 July
  1995); Deputy Prime Minister Sam CONDOR (since 6 July 1995)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the governor general in consultation
  with the prime minister
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; the governor general is
  appointed by the monarch; following legislative elections, the
  leader of the majority party or leader of a majority coalition is
  usually appointed prime minister by the governor general; deputy
  prime minister appointed by the governor general

Saint Lucia
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February
  1952); represented by Governor General Dame Pearlette LOUISY (since
  September 1997)
  head of government: Prime Minister Stephenson KING (since 9
  September 2007); note - Sir John COMPTON died in office Friday, 7
  September 2007
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the advice of
  the prime minister
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; the governor general is
  appointed by the monarch; following legislative elections, the
  leader of the majority party or the leader of a majority coalition
  is usually appointed prime minister by the governor general; deputy
  prime minister appointed by the governor general

Saint Martin
  chief of state: President Nicolas SARKOZY (since 16 May
  2007), represented by Prefect Dominique LACROIX (since 21 March 2007)
  head of government: President of the Territorial Council Frantz
  GUMBS (since 7 August 2008)
  cabinet: Executive Council; note - there is also an advisory
  economic, social, and cultural council
  election: French president elected by popular vote to a five-year
  term; prefect appointed by the French president on the advice of the
  French Ministry of Interior; president of the Territorial Council is
  elected by the members of the Council for a five-year term
  election results: Frantz GUMBS elected president by the Territorial
  Council on 7 August 2008

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  chief of state: President Nicolas SARKOZY
  (since 16 May 2007); represented by Prefect Jean-Pierre BERCOT
  (since 28 July 2008)
  head of government: President of the Territorial Council Stephane
  ARTANO (since 21 February 2007)
  cabinet: NA
  elections: French president elected by popular vote for a five-year
  term; election last held 6 May 2007 (next to be held in 2012);
  prefect appointed by the French president on the advice of the
  French Ministry of Interior; president of the Territorial Council is
  elected by the members of the council

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II
  (since 6 February 1952); represented by Governor General Sir
  Fredrick Nathaniel BALLANTYNE (since 2 September 2002)
  head of government: Prime Minister Ralph E. GONSALVES (since 29
  March 2001)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the advice of
  the prime minister
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; the governor general is
  appointed by the monarch; following legislative elections, the
  leader of the majority party is usually appointed prime minister by
  the governor general; deputy prime minister appointed by the
  governor general on the advice of the prime minister

Samoa
  chief of state: TUIATUA Tupua Tamasese Efi (since 20 June 2007)
  head of government: Prime Minister Sailele Malielegaoi TUILA'EPA
  (since 1998); Deputy Prime Minister MISA Telefoni (since 2001)
  cabinet: Cabinet consists of 12 members appointed by the chief of
  state on the prime minister's advice
  elections: chief of state is elected by the Legislative Assembly to
  serve a five-year term (no term limits); election last held 15 June
  2007 (next to be held in 2012); following legislative elections, the
  leader of the majority party is usually appointed prime minister by
  the chief of state with the approval of the Legislative Assembly
  election results: TUIATUA Tupua Tamasese Efi unanimously elected by
  the Legislative Assembly

San Marino
  chief of state: Co-chiefs of State Captain Regent Ernesto
  BENEDETTINI and Captain Regent Assunta MELONI (for the period 1
  October-31 March 2009)
  head of government: Secretary of State for Foreign and Political
  Affairs Fiorenzo STOLFI (since 27 July 2006)
  cabinet: Congress of State elected by the Great and General Council
  for a five-year term
  elections: co-chiefs of state (captains regent) elected by the Great
  and General Council for a six-month term; election last held in
  September 2007 (next to be held in March 2008); secretary of state
  for foreign and political affairs elected by the Great and General
  Council for a five-year term; election last held 27 July 2006 (next
  to be held by 2011)
  election results: Ernesto BENEDETTINI and Assunta MELONI elected
  captains regent; percent of legislative vote - NA; Fiorenzo STOLFI
  elected secretary of state for foreign and political affairs;
  percent of legislative vote - NA
  note: the popularly elected parliament (Grand and General Council)
  selects two of its members to serve as the Captains Regent
  (co-chiefs of state) for a six-month period; they preside over
  meetings of the Grand and General Council and its cabinet (Congress
  of State), which has 10 other members, all selected by the Grand and
  General Council; assisting the captains regent are 10 secretaries of
  state; the secretary of state for Foreign Affairs has assumed some
  prime ministerial roles

Sao Tome and Principe
  chief of state: President Fradique DE MENEZES
  (since 3 September 2001)
  head of government: Prime Minister Joachim Rafael BRANCO (since 22
  June 2008)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
  proposal of the prime minister
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 30 July 2006 (next
  to be held July 2011); prime minister chosen by the National
  Assembly and approved by the president
  election results: Fradique DE MENEZES elected president; percent of
  vote - Fradique DE MENEZES 60%, Patrice TROVOADA 38.5%

Saudi Arabia
  chief of state: King and Prime Minister ABDALLAH bin
  Abd al-Aziz Al Saud (since 1 August 2005); Heir Apparent Crown
  Prince SULTAN bin Abd al- Aziz Al Saud (half brother of the monarch,
  born 5 January 1928); note - the monarch is both the chief of state
  and head of government
  head of government: King and Prime Minister ABDALLAH bin Abd al-Aziz
  Al Saud (since 1 August 2005)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers is appointed by the monarch every four
  years and includes many royal family members
  elections: none; the monarchy is hereditary; note - a new Allegiance
  Commission created by royal decree in October 2006 established a
  committee of Saudi princes that will play a role in selecting future
  Saudi kings, but the new system will not take effect until after
  Crown Prince Sultan becomes king

Senegal
  chief of state: President Abdoulaye WADE (since 1 April 2000)
  head of government: Prime Minister Cheikh Hadjibou SOUMARE (since 19
  June 2007)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister in
  consultation with the president
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (eligible for a second term) under new constitution; election last
  held on 25 February 2007 (next to be held in 2012); prime minister
  appointed by the president
  election results: Abdoulaye WADE reelected president in the first
  round of voting; percent of vote - Abdoulaye WADE 55.9%, Idrissa
  SECK 14.9%, Ousmane Tanor DIENG 13.6%, Moustapha NIASSE 5.9%, other
  9.7%

Serbia
  chief of state: President Boris TADIC (since 11 July 2004)
  head of government: Prime Minister Mirko CVETKOVIC (since 7 July
  2008)
  cabinet: Federal Ministries act as cabinet
  elections: president elected by direct vote for a five-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 3 February 2008
  (next to be held in 2013); prime minister elected by the Assembly
  election results: Boris TADIC elected president in the second round
  of voting; Boris TADIC received 51.2% of the vote and Tomislav
  NIKOLIC 48.8%

Seychelles
  chief of state: President James Alix MICHEL (since 14
  April 2004); note - the president is both the chief of state and
  head of government
  head of government: President James MICHEL (since 14 April 2004)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (eligible for two more terms); election last held 28-30 July 2006
  (next to be held in 2011)
  election results: President James MICHEL elected president; percent
  of vote - James MICHEL 53.73%, Wavel RAMKALAWAN 45.71%, Philippe
  BOULLE 0.56%; note - this was the first election in which President
  James MICHEL participated; he was originally sworn in as president
  after former president France Albert RENE stepped down in April 2004

Sierra Leone
  chief of state: President Ernest Bai KOROMA (since 17
  September 2007); note - the president is both the chief of state and
  head of government
  head of government: President Ernest Bai KOROMA (since 17 September
  2007)
  cabinet: Ministers of State appointed by the president with the
  approval of the House of Representatives; the cabinet is responsible
  to the president
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 11 August 2007 and
  8 September 2007 (next to be held in 2012)
  election results: second round results; percent of vote - Ernest Bai
  KOROMA 54.6%, Solomon BEREWA 45.4%

Singapore
  chief of state: President S R NATHAN (since 1 September
  1999)
  note: uses S R NATHAN but his full name and the one used in formal
  communications is Sellapan RAMANATHAN
  head of government: Prime Minister LEE Hsien Loong (since 12 August
  2004); Senior Minister GOH Chok Tong (since 12 August 2004);
  Minister Mentor LEE Kuan Yew (since 12 August 2004); Deputy Prime
  Ministers Shunmugam JAYAKUMAR (since 12 August 2004) and WONG Kan
  Seng (since 1 September 2005)
  cabinet: appointed by president, responsible to parliament
  elections: president elected by popular vote for six-year term;
  appointed on 17 August 2005 (next election to be held by August
  2011); following legislative elections, leader of majority party or
  leader of majority coalition is usually appointed prime minister by
  president; deputy prime ministers appointed by president
  election results: Sellapan Rama (S R) NATHAN appointed president in
  August 2005 after Presidential Elections Committee disqualified
  three other would-be candidates; scheduled election not held

Slovakia
  chief of state: President Ivan GASPAROVIC (since 15 June
  2004)
  head of government: Prime Minister Robert FICO (since 4 July 2006);
  Deputy Prime Ministers Dusan CAPLOVIC, Robert KALINAK, Stefan
  HARABIN, Jan MIKOLAJ (since 4 July 2006)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president on the recommendation of
  the prime minister
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 3 April and 17
  April 2004 (next to be held in April 2009); following National
  Council elections, the leader of the majority party or the leader of
  a majority coalition is usually appointed prime minister by the
  president
  election results: Ivan GASPAROVIC elected president in runoff;
  percent of vote - Ivan GASPAROVIC 59.9%, Vladimir MECIAR 40.1%

Slovenia
  chief of state: President Danilo TURK (since 22 December
  2007)
  head of government: Prime Minister Borut PAHOR (since 7 November
  2008)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers nominated by the prime minister and
  elected by the National Assembly
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 21 October and 11
  November 2007 (next to be held in the fall of 2012); following
  National Assembly elections, the leader of the majority party or the
  leader of a majority coalition is usually nominated to become prime
  minister by the president and elected by the National Assembly;
  election last held on 9 November 2004 (next National Assembly
  elections to be held in October 2008)
  election results: Danilo TURK elected president; percent of vote -
  Danilo TURK 68.2%, Alojze PETERLE 31.8%; Janez JANSA elected prime
  minister by National Assembly vote - 57 to 27 in 2004

Solomon Islands
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February
  1952); represented by Governor General Nathaniel WAENA (since 7 July
  2004)
  head of government: Prime Minister Derek SIKUA (since 20 December
  2007); note - Prime Minister Manasseh SOGAVARE defeated in a no
  confidence vote in parliament on 13 December 2007; SIKUA elected on
  20 December 2007
  cabinet: Cabinet consists of 20 members appointed by the governor
  general on the advice of the prime minister from among the members
  of Parliament
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor general appointed by
  the monarch on the advice of Parliament for up to five years
  (eligible for a second term); following legislative elections, the
  leader of the majority party or the leader of a majority coalition
  is usually elected prime minister by Parliament; deputy prime
  minister appointed by the governor general on the advice of the
  prime minister from among the members of Parliament

Somalia
  chief of state: Transitional Federal President Abdullahi
  YUSUF Ahmed (since 14 October 2004); note - a transitional governing
  entity with a five-year mandate, known as the Transitional Federal
  Institutions (TFIs), was established in October 2004; the TFIs
  relocated to Somalia in June 2004
  head of government: Prime Minister Nur "Adde" HASSAN Hussein (since
  24 November 2007)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the prime minister and approved by the
  Transitional Federal Assembly
  election results: Abdullahi YUSUF Ahmed, the former leader of the
  semi-autonomous Puntland region of Somalia, was elected president by
  the Transitional Federal Assembly

South Africa
  chief of state: President Kgalema MOTLANTHE (since 25
  September 2008); Executive Deputy President Baleka MBETE (since 25
  September 2008); note - Thabo MBEKI resigned as president effective
  25 September 2008; the president is both the chief of state and head
  of government
  head of government: President Kgalema MOTLANTHE (since 25 September
  2008); Executive Deputy President Baleka MBETE (since 25 September
  2008)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president
  elections: president elected by the National Assembly for a
  five-year term (eligible for a second term); election last held on
  25 September 2008 (next to be held in April 2009); note - Kgalema
  MOTLANTHE is serving out the term of Thabo MBEKI
  election results: Kgalema MOTLANTHE elected president; National
  Assembly vote - Kgalema MOTLANTHE 269, Joe SEREMANE 50, other 41;
  note - Thabo MBEKI resigned as president effective 25 September
  2008, Kgalema MOTLANTHE is serving the remainder of his term

Spain
  chief of state: King JUAN CARLOS I (since 22 November 1975);
  Heir Apparent Prince FELIPE, son of the monarch, born 30 January 1968
  head of government: President of the Government (Prime Minister
  equivalent) Jose Luis Rodriguez ZAPATERO (since 17 April 2004);
  First Vice President (and Minister of the Presidency) Maria Teresa
  FERNANDEZ DE LA VEGA (since 18 April 2004) and Second Vice President
  (and Minister of Economy and Finance) Pedro SOLBES Mira (since 18
  April 2004)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers designated by the president
  note: there is also a Council of State that is the supreme
  consultative organ of the government, but its recommendations are
  non-binding
  elections: the monarchy is hereditary; following legislative
  elections, the leader of the majority party or the leader of the
  majority coalition is usually proposed president by the monarch and
  elected by the National Assembly; election last held on 9 and 11
  April 2008 (next to be held in March 2012); vice presidents
  appointed by the monarch on the proposal of the president
  election results: Jose Luis Rodriguez ZAPATERO reelected President
  of the Government; percent of National Assembly vote - 46.94%

Sri Lanka
  chief of state: President Mahinda RAJAPAKSA (since 19
  November 2005); note - the president is both the chief of state and
  head of government; Ratnasiri WICKREMANAYAKE (since 21 November
  2005) holds the largely ceremonial title of prime minister
  head of government: President Mahinda RAJAPAKSA (since 19 November
  2005)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president in consultation with the
  prime minister
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a six-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held on 17 November 2005
  (next to be held in 2011)
  election results: Mahinda RAJAPAKSA elected president; percent of
  vote - Mahinda RAJAPAKSA 50.3%, Ranil WICKREMESINGHE 48.4%, other
  1.3%

Sudan
  chief of state: President Umar Hassan Ahmad al-BASHIR (since
  16 October 1993); First Vice President Salva KIIR (since 4 August
  2005), Vice President Ali Osman TAHA (since 20 September 2005); note
  - the president is both the chief of state and head of government
  head of government: President Umar Hassan Ahmad al-BASHIR (since 16
  October 1993); First Vice President Salva KIIR (since 4 August
  2005), Vice President Ali Osman TAHA (since 20 September 2005)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president; note - the
  National Congress Party or NCP (formerly the National Islamic Front
  or NIF) dominates al-BASHIR's cabinet
  elections: election last held 13-23 December 2000; next to be held
  no later than July 2009 under terms of the 2005 Comprehensive Peace
  Agreement
  election results: Umar Hassan Ahmad al-BASHIR reelected president;
  percent of vote - Umar Hassan Ahmad al-BASHIR 86.5%, Ja'afar
  Muhammed NUMAYRI 9.6%, three other candidates received a combined
  vote of 3.9%; election widely viewed as rigged; all popular
  opposition parties boycotted elections because of a lack of
  guarantees for a free and fair election
  note: al-BASHIR assumed power as chairman of Sudan's Revolutionary
  Command Council for National Salvation (RCC) in June 1989 and served
  concurrently as chief of state, chairman of the RCC, prime minister,
  and minister of defense until mid-October 1993 when he was appointed
  president by the RCC; he was elected president by popular vote for
  the first time in March 1996

Suriname
  chief of state: President Runaldo Ronald VENETIAAN (since
  12 August 2000); Vice President Ramdien SARDJOE (since 3 August
  2005); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government
  head of government: President Runaldo Ronald VENETIAAN (since 12
  August 2000); Vice President Ram SARDJOE (since 3 August 2005)
  cabinet: Cabinet of Ministers appointed by the president
  elections: president and vice president elected by the National
  Assembly or, if no presidential or vice presidential candidate
  receives a two-thirds constitutional majority in the National
  Assembly after two votes, by a simple majority in the larger United
  People's Assembly (893 representatives from the national, local, and
  regional councils), for five-year terms (no term limits); election
  last held on 25 May 2005 (next to be held in 2010)
  election results: Runaldo Ronald VENETIAAN reelected president;
  percent of vote - Runaldo Ronald VENETIAAN 62.9%, Rabin PARMESSAR
  35.4%, other 1.7%; note - after two votes in the parliament failed
  to secure a two-thirds majority for a candidate, the vote then went
  to a special session of the United People's Assembly on 3 August 2005

Svalbard
  chief of state: King HARALD V of Norway (since 17 January
  1991)
  head of government: Governor Per SEFLAND (since 1 October 2005);
  Assistant Governor Rune Baard HANSEN (since 2003)
  elections: none; the monarch is hereditary; governor and assistant
  governor responsible to the Polar Department of the Ministry of
  Justice

Swaziland
  chief of state: King MSWATI III (since 25 April 1986)
  head of government: Prime Minister Barnabas Sibusiso DLAMINI (since
  16 October 2008)
  cabinet: Cabinet recommended by the prime minister and confirmed by
  the monarch
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; prime minister appointed by
  the monarch from among the elected members of the House of Assembly

Sweden
  chief of state: King CARL XVI GUSTAF (since 19 September
  1973); Heir Apparent Princess VICTORIA Ingrid Alice Desiree,
  daughter of the monarch (born 14 July 1977)
  head of government: Prime Minister Fredrik REINFELDT (since 5
  October 2006)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the prime minister
  elections: the monarchy is hereditary; following legislative
  elections, the prime minister is elected by the parliament; election
  last held on 17 September 2006 (next to be held in September 2010)
  election results: Fredrik REINFELDT elected prime minister with 175
  out of 349 votes

Switzerland
  chief of state: President Pascal COUCHEPIN (since 1
  January 2008); Vice President Hans-Rudolf MERZ (since 1 January
  2008); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government representing the Federal Council; the Federal Council is
  the formal chief of state and head of government whose council
  members, rotating in one-year terms as federal president, represent
  the Council
  head of government: President Pascal COUCHEPIN (since 1 January
  2008); Vice President Hans-Rudolf MERZ (since 1 January 2008)
  cabinet: Federal Council or Bundesrat (in German), Conseil Federal
  (in French), Consiglio Federale (in Italian) elected by the Federal
  Assembly usually from among its members for a four-year term
  elections: president and vice president elected by the Federal
  Assembly from among the members of the Federal Council for a
  one-year term (they may not serve consecutive terms); election last
  held on 12 December 2007 (next to be held in December 2008)
  election results: Pascal COUCHEPIN elected president; percent of
  Federal Assembly vote - 80.0%; Hans-Rudolf MERZ elected vice
  president; percent of Federal Assembly vote - 86.5%

Syria
  chief of state: President Bashar al-ASAD (since 17 July 2000);
  Vice President Farouk al-SHARA (since 11 February 2006) oversees
  foreign policy; Vice President Najah al-ATTAR (since 23 March 2006)
  oversees cultural policy
  head of government: Prime Minister Muhammad Naji al-UTRI (since 10
  September 2003); Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Affairs Abdallah
  al-DARDARI (since 14 June 2005)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
  elections: president approved by popular referendum for a second
  seven-year term (no term limits); referendum last held on 27 May
  2007 (next to be held in May 2014); the president appoints the vice
  presidents, prime minister, and deputy prime ministers
  election results: Bashar al-ASAD approved as president; percent of
  vote - Bashar al-ASAD 97.6%

Taiwan
  chief of state: President MA Ying-jeou (since 20 May 2008);
  Vice President Vincent SIEW (since 20 May 2008)
  head of government: Premier (President of the Executive Yuan) LIO
  Chao-shiuan (since 20 May 2008); Vice Premier (Vice President of
  Executive Yuan) Paul CHIU (CHANG-hsiung) (since 20 May 2008)
  cabinet: Executive Yuan - (ministers appointed by president on
  recommendation of premier)
  elections: president and vice president elected on the same ticket
  by popular vote for four-year terms (eligible for a second term);
  election last held 22 March 2008 (next to be held in March 2012);
  premier appointed by the president; vice premiers appointed by the
  president on the recommendation of the premier
  election results: MA Ying-jeou elected president on 22 March 2008;
  percent of vote - MA Ying-jeou 58.45%, Frank HSIEH 41.55%; MA
  Ying-jeou takes office on 20 May 2008

Tajikistan
  chief of state: President Emomali RAHMON (since 6
  November 1994; head of state and Supreme Assembly chairman since 19
  November 1992)
  head of government: Prime Minister Oqil OQILOV (since 20 January
  1999)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president, approved
  by the Supreme Assembly
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 6 November 2006
  (next to be held in November 2013); prime minister appointed by the
  president
  election results: Emomali RAHMON reelected president; percent of
  vote - Emomali RAHMON 79.3%, Olimzon BOBOYEV 6.2%, other 14.5%

Tanzania
  chief of state: President Jakaya KIKWETE (since 21 December
  2005); Vice President Dr. Ali Mohammed SHEIN (since 5 July 2001);
  note - the president is both chief of state and head of government
  head of government: President Jakaya KIKWETE (since 21 December
  2005); Vice President Dr. Ali Mohammed SHEIN (since 5 July 2001)
  note: Zanzibar elects a president who is head of government for
  matters internal to Zanzibar; Amani Abeid KARUME was reelected to
  that office on 30 October 2005
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president from among the members
  of the National Assembly
  elections: president and vice president elected on the same ballot
  by popular vote for five-year terms (eligible for a second term);
  election last held 14 December 2005 (next to be held in December
  2010); prime minister appointed by the president
  election results: Jakaya KIKWETE elected president; percent of vote
  - Jakaya KIKWETE 80.3%, Ibrahim LIPUMBA 11.7%, Freeman MBOWE 5.9%

Thailand
  chief of state: King PHUMIPHON Adunyadet or (BHUMIBOL
  Adulyadej) (since 9 June 1946)
  head of government: Prime Minister ABHISIT Wetchachiwa, also spelled
  ABHISIT Vejjajiva (since 17 December 2008); Deputy Prime Minister
  OLARN Cahipravat (since 24 September 2008); Deputy Prime Minister
  SANAN Kachornprasat, also spelled SANAN Kachornparsart (since 7
  February 2008); Deputy Prime Minister SOMPONG Amornwiwat (since 24
  September 2008)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers
  note: there is also a Privy Council
  elections: monarch is hereditary; according to 2007 constitution,
  prime minister is designated from among members of House of
  Representatives; following national elections for House of
  Representatives, leader of party that could organize a majority
  coalition usually was appointed prime minister by king; prime
  minister is limited to two 4-year terms

Timor-Leste
  chief of state: President Jose RAMOS-HORTA (since 20 May
  2007); note - the president plays a largely symbolic role but is
  able to veto legislation, dissolve parliament, and call national
  elections
  head of government: Prime Minister Kay Rala Xanana GUSMAO (since 8
  August 2007), note - he formerly used the name Jose Alexandre
  GUSMAO; Deputy Prime Minister Jose Luis GUTERRES (since 8 August
  2007)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held on 9 April 2007
  with run-off on 8 May 2007 (next to be held in May 2012); following
  elections, president appoints leader of majority party or majority
  coalition as prime minister
  election results: Jose RAMOS-HORTA elected president; percent of
  vote - Jose RAMOS-HORTA 69.2%, Francisco GUTTERES 30.8%

Togo
  chief of state: President Faure GNASSINGBE (since 4 May 2005);
  note - Gnassingbe EYADEMA died on 5 February 2005 and was succeeded
  by his son, Faure GNASSINGBE, with the support of the military
  following international condemnation for the unconstitutional move
  he then stepped aside pending elections, and Abass BONFOH served as
  interim president; Faure GNASSINGBE later won popular elections in
  April 2005
  head of government: Prime Minister Gilbert HOUNGBO (since 7
  September 2008)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president and the
  prime minister
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (no term limits); election last held 24 April 2005 (next to be held
  by 2010); prime minister appointed by the president
  election results: Faure GNASSINGBE elected president; percent of
  vote - Faure GNASSINGBE 60.2%, Emmanuel Akitani BOB 38.3%, Nicolas
  LAWSON 1%, Harry OLYMPIO 0.5%

Tokelau
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
  represented by Governor General of New Zealand Anand SATYANAND
  (since 23 August 2006); New Zealand is represented by Administrator
  David PAYTON (since 17 October 2006)
  head of government: Pio TUIA (since 23 February 2008); note -
  position rotates annually among the three Faipule (village leaders)
  cabinet: the Council for the Ongoing Government of Tokelau,
  consisting of three Faipule (village leaders) and three Pulenuku
  (village mayors), functions as a cabinet
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; administrator appointed by the
  Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade in New Zealand; the head of
  government is chosen from the Council of Faipule and serves a
  one-year term

Tonga
  chief of state: King George TUPOU V (since 11 September 2006)
  head of government: Prime Minister Dr. Feleti SEVELE (since 11
  February 2006); Deputy Prime Minister Dr. Viliami TANGI (since 16
  May 2006)
  cabinet: Cabinet consists of 14 members, 10 appointed by the monarch
  for life; four appointed from among the elected members of the
  Legislative Assembly, including two each from the nobles' and
  peoples' representatives serving three-year terms
  note: there is also a Privy Council that consists of the monarch,
  the cabinet, and two governors
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; prime minister and deputy
  prime minister appointed by the monarch

Trinidad and Tobago
  chief of state: President George Maxwell
  RICHARDS (since 17 March 2003)
  head of government: Prime Minister Patrick MANNING (since 24
  December 2001)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed from among the members of Parliament
  elections: president elected by an electoral college, which consists
  of the members of the Senate and House of Representatives, for a
  five-year term (eligible for a second term); election last held on
  11 February 2008 (next to be held by February 2013); the president
  usually appoints as prime minister the leader of the majority party
  in the House of Representatives
  election results: George Maxwell RICHARDS reelected president;
  percent of electoral college vote - NA

Tunisia
  chief of state: President Zine el Abidine BEN ALI (since 7
  November 1987)
  head of government: Prime Minister Mohamed GHANNOUCHI (since 17
  November 1999)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (no term limits); election last held on 24 October 2004 (next to be
  held in October 2009); prime minister appointed by the president
  election results: President Zine El Abidine BEN ALI reelected for a
  fourth term; percent of vote - Zine El Abidine BEN ALI 94.5%,
  Mohamed BOUCHIHA 3.8%, Mohamed Ali HALOUANI 1%

Turkey
  chief of state: President Abdullah GUL (since 28 August 2007)
  head of government: Prime Minister Recep Tayyip ERDOGAN (since 14
  March 2003); Deputy Prime Minister Cemil CICEK (since 29 August
  2007); Deputy Prime Minister Hayati YAZICI (since 29 August 2007);
  Deputy Prime Minister Nazim EKREN (since 29 August 2007)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
  nomination of the prime minister
  elections: president elected by the National Assembly for one
  seven-year terms; prime minister appointed by the president from
  among members of parliament
  election results: Abdullah GUL received 339 votes in the third round
  of voting on 28 August 2007, after failing to garner the two thirds
  vote required by law in the first two rounds
  note: president-elect must have a two-thirds majority of the
  National Assembly on the first two ballots and a simple majority on
  the third ballot

Turkmenistan
  chief of state: President Gurbanguly BERDIMUHAMEDOW
  (since 14 February 2007); note - the president is both the chief of
  state and head of government
  head of government: President Gurbanguly BERDIMUHAMEDOW (since 14
  February 2007)
  cabinet: Cabinet of Ministers appointed by the president
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  election last held on 11 February 2007 (next to be held in 2012)
  election results: Gurbanguly BERDIMUHAMEDOW elected president;
  percent of vote - Gurbanguly BERDIMUHAMEDOW 89.2%, Amanyaz ATAJYKOW
  3.2%, other candidates 7.6%

Turks and Caicos Islands
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
  February 1952); represented by Governor Gordon WETHERELL (since 5
  August 2008)
  head of government: Premier Michael Eugene MISICK (chief minister
  since 15 August 2003, sworn in as premier on 9 August 2006); note -
  the office of premier was created in the 2006 constitution
  cabinet: Cabinet consists of the governor, the premier, six
  ministers appointed by the governor from among the members of the
  House of Assembly, and the attorney general
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor appointed by the
  monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the majority
  party is appointed premier by the governor

Tuvalu
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
  represented by Governor General Filoimea TELITO (since 15 April 2005)
  head of government: Prime Minister Apisai IELEMIA (since 14 August
  2006)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the
  recommendation of the prime minister
  elections: the monarch is hereditary; governor general appointed by
  the monarch on the recommendation of the prime minister; prime
  minister and deputy prime minister elected by and from the members
  of Parliament; election last held 14 August 2006 (next to be held
  following parliamentary elections in 2010)
  election results: Apisai IELEMIA elected Prime Minister in a
  Parliamentary election on 14 August 2006

Uganda
  chief of state: President Lt. Gen. Yoweri Kaguta MUSEVENI
  (since seizing power 26 January 1986); note - the president is both
  chief of state and head of government
  head of government: President Lt. Gen. Yoweri Kaguta MUSEVENI (since
  seizing power 26 January 1986); Prime Minister Apolo NSIBAMBI (since
  5 April 1999); note - the prime minister assists the president in
  the supervision of the cabinet
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president from among elected
  legislators
  elections: president reelected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  election last held 23 February 2006 (next to be held in 2011)
  election results: Lt. Gen. Yoweri Kaguta MUSEVENI elected president;
  percent of vote - Lt. Gen. Yoweri Kaguta MUSEVENI 59.3%, Kizza
  BESIGYE 37.4%, other 3.3%

Ukraine
  chief of state: President Viktor A. YUSHCHENKO (since 23
  January 2005)
  head of government: Prime Minister Yuliya TYMOSHENKO (since 18
  December 2007); First Deputy Prime Minister Oleksandr TURCHYNOV
  (since 18 December 2007); Deputy Prime Ministers Hryhoriy NEMYRYA
  and Ivan VASYUNYK (since 18 December 2007)
  cabinet: Cabinet of Ministers selected by the prime minister; the
  only exceptions are the foreign and defense ministers, who are
  chosen by the president
  note: there is also a National Security and Defense Council or NSDC
  originally created in 1992 as the National Security Council; the
  NSDC staff is tasked with developing national security policy on
  domestic and international matters and advising the president; a
  Presidential Secretariat helps draft presidential edicts and
  provides policy support to the president
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (eligible for a second term); note - a special repeat runoff
  presidential election between Viktor YUSHCHENKO and Viktor
  YANUKOVYCH took place on 26 December 2004 after the earlier 21
  November 2004 contest - won by YANUKOVYCH - was invalidated by the
  Ukrainian Supreme Court because of widespread and significant
  violations; under constitutional reforms that went into effect 1
  January 2006, the majority in parliament takes the lead in naming
  the prime minister
  election results: Viktor YUSHCHENKO elected president; percent of
  vote - Viktor YUSHCHENKO 52%, Viktor YANUKOVYCH 44.2%

United Arab Emirates
  chief of state: President KHALIFA bin Zayid
  Al-Nuhayyan (since 3 November 2004), ruler of Abu Zaby (Abu Dhabi)
  (since 4 November 2004); Vice President and Prime Minister MUHAMMAD
  BIN RASHID Al-Maktum (since 5 January 2006)
  head of government: Prime Minister and Vice President MUHAMMAD bin
  Rashid Al-Maktum (since 5 January 2006); Deputy Prime Ministers
  SULTAN bin Zayid Al-Nuhayyan (since 20 November 1990) and HAMDAN bin
  Zayid Al-Nuhayyan (since 20 October 2003)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
  note: there is also a Federal Supreme Council (FSC) composed of the
  seven emirate rulers; the FSC is the highest constitutional
  authority in the UAE; establishes general policies and sanctions
  federal legislation; meets four times a year; Abu Zaby (Abu Dhabi)
  and Dubayy (Dubai) rulers have effective veto power
  elections: president and vice president elected by the FSC for
  five-year terms (no term limits); election last held 3 November 2004
  upon the death of the UAE's Founding Father and first President
  ZAYID bin Sultan Al Nuhayyan (next to be held in 2009); prime
  minister and deputy prime minister appointed by the president
  election results: KHALIFA bin Zayid Al-Nuhayyan elected president by
  a unanimous vote of the FSC; MUHAMMAD bin Rashid Al-Maktum
  unanimously affirmed vice president after the 2006 death of his
  brother Sheikh Maktum bin Rashid Al-Maktum

United Kingdom
  chief of state: Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February
  1952); Heir Apparent Prince CHARLES (son of the queen, born 14
  November 1948)
  head of government: Prime Minister James Gordon BROWN (since 27 June
  2007)
  cabinet: Cabinet of Ministers appointed by the prime minister
  elections: the monarchy is hereditary; following legislative
  elections, the leader of the majority party or the leader of the
  majority coalition is usually the prime minister

United States
  chief of state: President George W. BUSH (since 20
  January 2001); Vice President Richard B. CHENEY (since 20 January
  2001); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government
  head of government: President George W. BUSH (since 20 January
  2001); Vice President Richard B. CHENEY (since 20 January 2001)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president with Senate approval
  elections: president and vice president elected on the same ticket
  by a college of representatives who are elected directly from each
  state; president and vice president serve four-year terms (eligible
  for a second term); election last held 4 November 2008 (next to be
  held on 6 November 2012)
  election results: Barack H. OBAMA elected president; percent of
  popular vote - Barack H. OBAMA 52.4%, John MCCAIN 46.3%, other 1.3%;
  note - OBAMA is expected to assume office on 20 January 2009

Uruguay
  chief of state: President Tabare VAZQUEZ Rosas (since 1
  March 2005); Vice President Rodolfo NIN NOVOA (since 1 March 2005);
  note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government
  head of government: President Tabare VAZQUEZ Rosas (since 1 March
  2005); Vice President Rodolfo NIN NOVOA (since 1 March 2005)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president with
  parliamentary approval
  elections: president and vice president elected on the same ticket
  by popular vote for five-year terms (may not serve consecutive
  terms); election last held 31 October 2004 (next to be held in
  October 2009)
  election results: Tabare VAZQUEZ elected president; percent of vote
  - Tabare VAZQUEZ 50.5%, Jorge LARRANAGA 35.1%, Guillermo STIRLING
  10.3%; other 4.1%

Uzbekistan
  chief of state: President Islom KARIMOV (since 24 March
  1990, when he was elected president by the then Supreme Soviet)
  head of government: Prime Minister Shavkat MIRZIYOYEV (since 11
  December 2003); First Deputy Prime Minister Rustam AZIMOV (since 2
  January 2008)
  cabinet: Cabinet of Ministers appointed by the president with
  approval of the Supreme Assembly
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term
  (eligible for a second term; previously was a five-year term,
  extended by constitutional amendment in 2002); election last held 23
  December 2007 (next to be held in 2014); prime minister, ministers,
  and deputy ministers appointed by the president
  election results: Islom KARIMOV reelected president; percent of vote
  - Islom KARIMOV 88.1%, Aslidden RUSTAMOV 3.2%, Dilorom
  TASHMUKHAMEDOVA 2.9%, Akmal SAIDOV 2.6%

Vanuatu
  chief of state: President Kalkot Matas KELEKELE (since 16
  August 2004)
  head of government: Prime Minister Edward NATAPEI (since 22
  September 2008); Deputy Prime Minister Ham LINI (since 22 September
  2008)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister,
  responsible to Parliament
  elections: president elected for a five-year term by an electoral
  college consisting of Parliament and the presidents of the regional
  councils; election for president last held 16 August 2004 (next to
  be held in 2009); following legislative elections, the leader of the
  majority party or majority coalition is usually elected prime
  minister by Parliament from among its members; election for prime
  minister last held 22 September 2008 (next to be held following
  general elections in 2012)
  election results: Kalkot Matas KELEKELE elected president, with 49
  votes out of 56, after several ballots on 16 August 2004

Venezuela
  chief of state: President Hugo CHAVEZ Frias (since 3
  February 1999); Executive Vice President Ramon Alonzo CARRIZALEZ
  Rengifo (since 4 January 2008); note - the president is both the
  chief of state and head of government
  head of government: President Hugo CHAVEZ Frias (since 3 February
  1999); Executive Vice President Ramon Alonzo CARRIZALEZ Rengifo
  (since 4 January 2008)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a six-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 3 December 2006
  (next to be held in December 2012)
  note: in 1999, a National Constituent Assembly drafted a new
  constitution that increased the presidential term to six years; an
  election was subsequently held on 30 July 2000 under the terms of
  this constitution
  election results: Hugo CHAVEZ Frias reelected president; percent of
  vote - Hugo CHAVEZ Frias 62.9%, Manuel ROSALES 36.9%

Vietnam
  chief of state: President Nguyen Minh TRIET (since 27 June
  2006); Vice President Nguyen Thi DOAN (since 25 July 2007)
  head of government: Prime Minister Nguyen Tan DUNG (since 27 June
  2006); Permanent Deputy Prime Minister Nguyen Sinh HUNG (since 28
  June 2006), Deputy Prime Minister Hoang Trung HAI (since 2 August
  2007), Deputy Prime Minister Nguyen Thien NHAN (since 2 August
  2007), Deputy Prime Minister Pham Gia KHIEM (since 28 June 2006),
  and Deputy Prime Minister Truong Vinh TRONG (since 28 June 2006)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by president based on proposal of prime
  minister and confirmed by National Assembly
  elections: president elected by the National Assembly from among its
  members for five-year term; last held 27 June 2006 (next to be held
  in 2011); prime minister appointed by the president from among the
  members of the National Assembly; deputy prime ministers appointed
  by the prime minister; appointment of prime minister and deputy
  prime ministers confirmed by National Assembly
  election results: Nguyen Minh TRIET elected president; percent of
  National Assembly vote - 94%; Nguyen Tan DUNG elected prime
  minister; percent of National Assembly vote - 92%

Virgin Islands
  chief of state: President George W. BUSH of the US
  (since 20 January 2001); Vice President Richard B. CHENEY (since 20
  January 2001)
  head of government: Governor John DeJONGH (since 1 January 2007)
  cabinet: NA
  elections: under the US Constitution, residents of unincorporated
  territories, such as the Virgin Islands, do not vote in elections
  for US president and vice president; however, they may vote in the
  Democratic and Republican presidential primary elections; governor
  and lieutenant governor elected on the same ticket by popular vote
  for four-year terms (eligible for a second term); election last held
  7 and 21 November 2006 (next to be held November 2010)
  election results: John DeJONGH elected governor; percent of vote -
  John DeJONGH 57.3%, Kenneth MAPP 42.7%

Wallis and Futuna
  chief of state: President Nicolas SARKOZY (since
  16 May 2007); represented by High Administrator Philippe PAOLANTONI
  (since 28 July 2008)
  head of government: President of the Territorial Assembly Patalione
  KANIMOA (since January 2001)
  cabinet: Council of the Territory consists of three kings and three
  members appointed by the high administrator on the advice of the
  Territorial Assembly
  note: there are three traditional kings with limited powers
  elections: French president elected by popular vote for a five-year
  term; high administrator appointed by the French president on the
  advice of the French Ministry of the Interior; the presidents of the
  Territorial Government and the Territorial Assembly are elected by
  the members of the assembly

Western Sahara
  none

Yemen
  chief of state: President Ali Abdallah SALIH (since 22 May
  1990, the former president of North Yemen, assumed office upon the
  merger of North and South Yemen); Vice President Maj. Gen. Abd
  al-Rab Mansur al-HADI (since 3 October 1994)
  head of government: Prime Minister Ali Muhammad MUJAWWAR (since 31
  March 2007)
  cabinet: Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
  advice of the prime minister
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term;
  election last held 20 September 2006 (next to be held in September
  2013); vice president appointed by the president; prime minister and
  deputy prime ministers appointed by the president
  election results: Ali Abdallah SALIH elected president; percent of
  vote - Ali Abdallah SALIH 77.2%, Faysal BIN SHAMLAN 21.8%

Zambia
  chief of state: President Rupiah BANDA (since 19 August
  2008); Vice President George KUNDA (since 14 November 2008); note -
  President BANDA was acting president since the illness and eventual
  death of President Levy MWANAWASA on 18 August 2008, he was then
  elected president on 30 October 2008 to serve out the remainder of
  MWANAWASA's term; the president is both the chief of state and head
  of government
  head of government: President Rupiah BANDA (since 19 August 2008);
  Vice President George KUNDA (since 14 November 2008)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president from among the members
  of the National Assembly
  elections: president elected by popular vote for a five-year term
  (eligible for a second term); election last held 30 October 2008
  (next to be held in 2011); vice president appointed by the
  president; note - due to the untimely death of former President Levy
  MWANAWASA, early elections were held to identify a replacement to
  serve out the remainder of his term
  election results: Rupiah BANDA elected president; percent of vote -
  Rupiah BANDA 40.1%, Michael SATA 38.1%, Hakainde HICHILEMA 19.7%,
  Godfrey MIYANDA 0.8%, other 1.3%

Zimbabwe
  chief of state: Executive President Robert Gabriel MUGABE
  (since 31 December 1987); Vice President Joseph MSIKA (since
  December 1999) and Vice President Joyce MUJURU (since 6 December
  2004); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government
  head of government: Executive President Robert Gabriel MUGABE (since
  31 December 1987); Vice President Joseph MSIKA (since December 1999)
  and Vice President Joyce MUJURU (since 6 December 2004)
  cabinet: Cabinet appointed by the president; responsible to the
  House of Assembly
  elections: presidential candidates nominated with a nomination paper
  signed by at least 10 registered voters (at least one from each
  province) and elected by popular vote for a five-year term (no term
  limits); elections last held 28 March 2008 followed by a run-off on
  27 June 2008 (next to be held in 2013); co-vice presidents appointed
  by the president
  election results: Robert Gabriel MUGABE reelected president; percent
  of vote - Robert Gabriel MUGABE 85.5%, Morgan TSVANGIRAI 9.3%, other
  5.2%; note - first round voting results - Morgan TSVANGIRAI 47.9%,
  Robert Gabriel MUGABE 43.2%, Simba MAKONI 8.3%, other 0.6%;
  first-round round polls were deemed to be flawed suppressing
  TSVANGIRAI's results; the 27 June 2008 run-off between MUGABE and
  TSVANGIRAI were severely flawed and internationally condemned

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2078  Exports


Afghanistan
  $274 million; note - not including illicit exports or
  reexports (2006)

Albania
  $1.076 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Algeria
  $60.51 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

American Samoa
  $445.6 million (FY04 est.)

Andorra
  $148.7 million f.o.b. (2005)

Angola
  $45.03 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Anguilla
  $13 million (2006)

Antigua and Barbuda
  $84.3 million (2007 est.)

Argentina
  $55.78 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Armenia
  $1.2 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Aruba
  $124 million f.o.b.; note - includes oil reexports (2006)

Australia
  $142.1 billion (2007 est.)

Austria
  $162.1 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Azerbaijan
  $21.27 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Bahamas, The
  $674 million (2006)

Bahrain
  $13.79 billion (2007 est.)

Bangladesh
  $12.45 billion (2007 est.)

Barbados
  $385 million (2006)

Belarus
  $24.47 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Belgium
  $322.2 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Belize
  $429 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Benin
  $586 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Bermuda
  $763 million (2006)

Bhutan
  $350 million f.o.b. (2006)

Bolivia
  $4.49 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  $4.243 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Botswana
  $5.025 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Brazil
  $160.6 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  $25.3 million (2002)

Brunei
  $6.767 billion f.o.b. (2006)

Bulgaria
  $18.44 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Burkina Faso
  $617 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Burma
  $6.122 billion f.o.b.
  note: official export figures are grossly underestimated due to the
  value of timber, gems, narcotics, rice, and other products smuggled
  to Thailand, China, and Bangladesh (2007 est.)

Burundi
  $44 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Cambodia
  $4.089 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Cameroon
  $3.827 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Canada
  $431.1 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Cape Verde
  $76.5 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Cayman Islands
  $2.52 million (2004)

Central African Republic
  $146.7 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Chad
  $4.201 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Chile
  $67.64 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

China
  $1.22 trillion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Christmas Island
  $NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  $NA

Colombia
  $30.58 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Comoros
  $32 million f.o.b. (2006)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  $1.587 billion f.o.b. (2006)

Congo, Republic of the
  $5.8 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Cook Islands
  $5.222 million (2005)

Costa Rica
  $9.268 billion (2007 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  $8.476 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Croatia
  $12.62 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Cuba
  $3.734 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Cyprus
  $1.495 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Czech Republic
  $122.3 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Denmark
  $101.2 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Djibouti
  $340 million f.o.b. (2006)

Dominica
  $94 million f.o.b. (2006)

Dominican Republic
  $7.237 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Ecuador
  $14.37 billion (2007 est.)

Egypt
  $24.45 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

El Salvador
  $4.035 billion (2007 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  $9.904 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Eritrea
  $12 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Estonia
  $11.08 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Ethiopia
  $1.288 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

European Union
  $1.33 trillion; note - external exports, excluding
  intra-EU trade (2005)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  $125 million (2004 est.)

Faroe Islands
  $634 million f.o.b. (2006)

Fiji
  $1.202 billion f.o.b. (2006)

Finland
  $89.91 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

France
  $546 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

French Polynesia
  $211 million f.o.b. (2005 est.)

Gabon
  $6.956 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Gambia, The
  $88 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Gaza Strip
  $301 million f.o.b.; (includes West Bank) (2005)

Georgia
  $2.104 billion (2007 est.)

Germany
  $1.354 trillion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Ghana
  $4.162 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Gibraltar
  $271 million f.o.b. (2004 est.)

Greece
  $23.91 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Greenland
  $480 million f.o.b. (2006)

Grenada
  $38 million (2006)

Guam
  $45 million f.o.b. (2004 est.)

Guatemala
  $6.94 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Guernsey
  $NA

Guinea
  $1.128 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  $133 million f.o.b. (2006)

Guyana
  $683 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Haiti
  $522 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Honduras
  $5.594 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Hong Kong
  $345.9 billion f.o.b., including reexports (2007 est.)

Hungary
  $87.77 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Iceland
  $4.793 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

India
  $151.3 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Indonesia
  $118 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Iran
  $88.26 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Iraq
  $38.14 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Ireland
  $115.5 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Isle of Man
  $NA

Israel
  $50.37 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Italy
  $502.4 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Jamaica
  $2.331 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Japan
  $678.1 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Jersey
  $NA

Jordan
  $5.7 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Kazakhstan
  $48.35 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Kenya
  $4.127 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Kiribati
  $17 million f.o.b. (2004 est.)

Korea, North
  $1.466 billion f.o.b. (2006)

Korea, South
  $379 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Kosovo
  $148.4 million (2007)

Kuwait
  $63.72 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  $1.337 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Laos
  $970 million (2007 est.)

Latvia
  $8.143 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Lebanon
  $4.077 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Lesotho
  $853 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Liberia
  $1.197 billion f.o.b. (2006)

Libya
  $42.97 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Liechtenstein
  $2.47 billion (1996)

Lithuania
  $17.18 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Luxembourg
  $18.42 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Macau
  $2.557 billion f.o.b.; note - includes reexports (2006)

Macedonia
  $3.35 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Madagascar
  $986 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Malawi
  $604 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Malaysia
  $176.4 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Maldives
  $167 million f.o.b. (2006)

Mali
  $294 million f.o.b. (2006)

Malta
  $3.238 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Marshall Islands
  $9.1 million f.o.b. (2000)

Mauritania
  $1.395 billion f.o.b. (2006)

Mauritius
  $2.231 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Mayotte
  $6.5 million f.o.b. (2005)

Mexico
  $271.9 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  $14 million (f.o.b.) (2004 est.)

Moldova
  $1.361 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Monaco
  $716.3 million
  note: full customs integration with France, which collects and
  rebates Monegasque trade duties; also participates in EU market
  system through customs union with France (2005)

Mongolia
  $1.889 billion f.o.b. (2007)

Montenegro
  $171.3 million (2003)

Montserrat
  $700,000 (2001)

Morocco
  $12.75 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Mozambique
  $2.412 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Namibia
  $2.919 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Nauru
  $64,000 f.o.b. (2005 est.)

Nepal
  $830 million f.o.b.; note - does not include unrecorded border
  trade with India (2006)

Netherlands
  $456.8 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  $3.71 billion f.o.b. (2006)

New Caledonia
  $1.341 billion f.o.b. (2006)

New Zealand
  $27.35 billion (2007 est.)

Nicaragua
  $2.313 billion f.o.b.; note - includes free trade zones
  (2007 est.)

Niger
  $428 million f.o.b. (2006)

Nigeria
  $61.79 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Niue
  $201,400 (2004)

Norfolk Island
  $1.5 million f.o.b. (FY91/92)

Northern Mariana Islands
  $NA

Norway
  $140.3 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Oman
  $23.1 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Pakistan
  $18.12 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Palau
  $5.882 million f.o.b. (2004 est.)

Panama
  $9.312 billion f.o.b.; note - includes the Colon Free Zone
  (2007 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  $4.686 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Paraguay
  $5.463 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Peru
  $27.96 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Philippines
  $49.32 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Pitcairn Islands
  $NA

Poland
  $144.6 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Portugal
  $51.5 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Puerto Rico
  $46.9 billion f.o.b. (2001)

Qatar
  $42.02 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Romania
  $40.32 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Russia
  $355.5 billion (2007 est.)

Rwanda
  $184 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Saint Helena
  $19 million f.o.b. (2004 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  $84 million (2006)

Saint Lucia
  $288 million (2006)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  $5.5 million f.o.b. (2005 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  $193 million (2006)

Samoa
  $131 million f.o.b. (2006)

San Marino
  $1.291 billion (2004)

Sao Tome and Principe
  $9 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  $226.7 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Senegal
  $1.65 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Serbia
  $8.824 billion (2007 est.)

Seychelles
  $395 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Sierra Leone
  $216 million f.o.b. (2006)

Singapore
  $302.7 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Slovakia
  $57.53 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Slovenia
  $27.06 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Solomon Islands
  $237 million f.o.b. (2006)

Somalia
  $300 million f.o.b. (2006)

South Africa
  $76.19 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Spain
  $256.7 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Sri Lanka
  $8.135 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Sudan
  $8.879 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Suriname
  $1.391 billion f.o.b. (2006 est.)

Svalbard
  $197.6 million (2004)

Swaziland
  $1.926 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Sweden
  $170.1 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Switzerland
  $200.1 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Syria
  $11.14 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Taiwan
  $246.5 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Tajikistan
  $1.606 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Tanzania
  $2.227 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Thailand
  $151.1 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Timor-Leste
  $10 million; note - excludes oil (2005 est.)

Togo
  $702 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Tokelau
  $0 (2002)

Tonga
  $22 million f.o.b. (2006)

Trinidad and Tobago
  $13.39 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Tunisia
  $15.15 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Turkey
  $115.3 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Turkmenistan
  $7.567 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  $169.2 million (2000)

Tuvalu
  $1 million f.o.b. (2004 est.)

Uganda
  $1.686 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Ukraine
  $49.84 billion (2007 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  $178.9 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

United Kingdom
  $442.2 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

United States
  $1.148 trillion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Uruguay
  $5.063 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Uzbekistan
  $8.05 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Vanuatu
  $40 million f.o.b. (2006)

Venezuela
  $69.17 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Vietnam
  $48.56 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Virgin Islands
  $4.234 billion (2001)

Wallis and Futuna
  $47,450 f.o.b. (2004)

West Bank
  $301 million f.o.b.; (includes Gaza Strip) (2005)

Western Sahara
  $NA

World
  $13.89 trillion f.o.b. (2006 est.)

Yemen
  $7.311 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Zambia
  $4.594 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Zimbabwe
  $1.52 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2079  Debt - external


Afghanistan
  $8 billion in bilateral debt, mostly to Russia;
  Afghanistan has $500 million in debt to Multilateral Development
  Banks (2004)

Albania
  $1.55 billion (2004)

Algeria
  $3.957 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

American Samoa
  $NA

Andorra
  $NA

Angola
  $8.357 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Anguilla
  $8.8 million (1998)

Antigua and Barbuda
  $359.8 million (June 2006)

Argentina
  $135.8 billion (31 December 2007)

Armenia
  $1.372 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Aruba
  $478.6 million (2005 est.)

Australia
  $826.4 billion (31 December 2007)

Austria
  $752.5 billion (30 June 2007)

Azerbaijan
  $2.439 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Bahamas, The
  $342.6 million (2004 est.)

Bahrain
  $7.858 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Bangladesh
  $21.23 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Barbados
  $668 million (2003)

Belarus
  $7.347 billion (31 December 2007)

Belgium
  $1.313 trillion (30 June 2007)

Belize
  $1.2 billion (June 2005 est.)

Benin
  $1.2 billion (2007)

Bermuda
  $160 million (FY99/00)

Bhutan
  $713.3 million (2006)

Bolivia
  $4.495 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  $6.734 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Botswana
  $408 million (31 December 2007 est.)

Brazil
  $229.4 billion (31 December 2007)

British Virgin Islands
  $36.1 million (1997)

Brunei
  $0 (2005)

Bulgaria
  $34.88 billion (30 June 2007)

Burkina Faso
  $1.33 billion (2007)

Burma
  $7.022 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Burundi
  $1.2 billion (2003)

Cambodia
  $3.89 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Cameroon
  $2.554 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Canada
  $758.6 billion (30 June 2007)

Cape Verde
  $325 million (2002)

Cayman Islands
  $70 million (1996)

Central African Republic
  $1.153 billion (2007 est.)

Chad
  $1.6 billion (2005 est.)

Chile
  $57.6 billion (31 December 2007)

China
  $363 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Colombia
  $41.39 billion (30 June 2007)

Comoros
  $232 million (2000 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  $10 billion (2006 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  $5 billion (2000 est.)

Cook Islands
  $141 million (1996 est.)

Costa Rica
  $7.416 billion (30 June 2007)

Cote d'Ivoire
  $13.79 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Croatia
  $46.3 billion (30 June 2007)

Cuba
  $16.79 billion (convertible currency); another $15-20 billion
  owed to Russia (31 December 2007 est.)

Cyprus
  $26.97 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Czech Republic
  $74.7 billion (31 December 2007)

Denmark
  $492.6 billion (30 June 2007)

Djibouti
  $428 million (2006)

Dominica
  $213 million (2004)

Dominican Republic
  $10.21 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Ecuador
  $17.12 billion (31 December 2007)

Egypt
  $29.2 billion (30 June 2007)

El Salvador
  $9.574 billion (December 2007)

Equatorial Guinea
  $338 million (31 December 2007 est.)

Eritrea
  $311 million (2000 est.)

Estonia
  $24.82 billion (30 June 2007)

Ethiopia
  $2.621 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  $NA

Faroe Islands
  $64 million (1999)

Fiji
  $127 million (2004 est.)

Finland
  $271.2 billion (30 June 2007)

France
  $4.396 trillion (30 June 2007)

French Polynesia
  $NA

Gabon
  $4.895 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Gambia, The
  $628.8 million (2003 est.)

Gaza Strip
  $NA

Georgia
  $4.5 billion (2007)

Germany
  $4.489 trillion (30 June 2007)

Ghana
  $4.891 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Gibraltar
  $NA

Greece
  $86.72 billion (31 December 2007)

Greenland
  $25 million (1999)

Grenada
  $347 million (2004)

Guam
  $NA

Guatemala
  $5.908 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Guernsey
  $NA

Guinea
  $3.351 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  $941.5 million (2000 est.)

Guyana
  $1.2 billion (2002)

Haiti
  $1.475 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Honduras
  $3.411 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Hong Kong
  $588 billion (2007 est.)

Hungary
  $125.9 billion (31 December 2007)

Iceland
  $3.073 billion (2002)

India
  $149.2 billion (31 December 2007)

Indonesia
  $140 billion (31 December 2007)

Iran
  $20.68 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Iraq
  $100.9 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Ireland
  $1.841 trillion (30 June 2007)

Isle of Man
  $NA

Israel
  $89.95 billion (31 December 2007)

Italy
  $996.3 billion (31 December 2007)

Jamaica
  $9.657 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Japan
  $1.492 trillion (30 June 2007)

Jersey
  $NA

Jordan
  $8.133 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Kazakhstan
  $96.36 billion (31 December 2007)

Kenya
  $6.713 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Kiribati
  $10 million (1999 est.)

Korea, North
  $12.5 billion (2001 est.)

Korea, South
  $220.1 billion (31 December 2007)

Kosovo
  according to the national bank of Serbia, Kosovo's external
  debt was around $1.2 billion; Kosovo was willing to accept around
  $900 million (2007)

Kuwait
  $33.62 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  $2.966 billion (30 June 2007)

Laos
  $3.179 billion (2006)

Latvia
  $33.53 billion (31 December 2007)

Lebanon
  $31.6 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Lesotho
  $689 million (31 December 2007 est.)

Liberia
  $3.2 billion (2005 est.)

Libya
  $4.837 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Liechtenstein
  $0 (2001)

Lithuania
  $27.19 billion (31 December 2007)

Luxembourg
  $NA

Macau
  $0 (2006)

Macedonia
  $3.967 billion (31 December 2007)

Madagascar
  $4.6 billion (2002)

Malawi
  $894 million (31 December 2007 est.)

Malaysia
  $53.09 billion (31 December 2007)

Maldives
  $482 million (2006 est.)

Mali
  $2.8 billion (2002)

Malta
  $188.8 million (2005)

Marshall Islands
  $86.5 million (FY99/00 est.)

Mauritania
  NA

Mauritius
  $2.149 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Mayotte
  $NA

Mexico
  $179.8 billion (31 December 2007)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  $60.8 million (FY05 est.)

Moldova
  $3.3 billion (31 December 2007)

Monaco
  $18 billion (2000 est.)

Mongolia
  $1.438 billion (2007)

Montenegro
  $650 million (2006)

Montserrat
  $8.9 million (1997)

Morocco
  $19.91 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Mozambique
  $4.189 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Namibia
  $1.003 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Nauru
  $33.3 million (2002)

Nepal
  $3.07 billion (March 2006)

Netherlands
  $2.277 trillion (30 June 2007)

Netherlands Antilles
  $2.68 billion (2004)

New Caledonia
  $79 million (1998 est.)

New Zealand
  $51.44 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Nicaragua
  $3.341 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Niger
  $2.1 billion (2003 est.)

Nigeria
  $8.007 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Niue
  $418,000 (2002 est.)

Norfolk Island
  $NA

Northern Mariana Islands
  $NA

Norway
  $469.1 billion; note - Norway is a net external creditor (30
  June 2007)

Oman
  $5.297 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Pakistan
  $38.8 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Palau
  $0 (FY99/00)

Panama
  $10.45 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  $1.646 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Paraguay
  $3.492 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Peru
  $32.83 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Philippines
  $61.78 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Poland
  $169.8 billion (31 December 2007)

Portugal
  $461.2 billion (31 December 2007)

Puerto Rico
  $NA

Qatar
  $33.09 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Romania
  $74.54 billion (31 December 2007)

Russia
  $356.5 billion (31 December 2007)

Rwanda
  $1.4 billion (2004 est.)

Saint Helena
  $NA

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  $314 million (2004)

Saint Lucia
  $257 million (2004)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  $NA

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  $223 million (2004)

Samoa
  $177 million (2004)

San Marino
  $NA

Sao Tome and Principe
  $318 million (2002)

Saudi Arabia
  $58.6 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Senegal
  $2.19 billion (31 December 2007)

Serbia
  $26.24 billion (includes debt for Montenegro and Kosovo)
  (2007 est.)

Seychelles
  $1.059 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Sierra Leone
  $1.61 billion (2003 est.)

Singapore
  $25.59 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Slovakia
  $36.63 billion (31 December 2007)

Slovenia
  $40.42 billion (30 June 2007)

Solomon Islands
  $166 million (2004)

Somalia
  $3 billion (2001 est.)

South Africa
  $39.78 billion (31 December 2007)

Spain
  $1.084 trillion (30 June 2007 est.)

Sri Lanka
  $12.2 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Sudan
  $29.42 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Suriname
  $504.3 million (2005 est.)

Swaziland
  $524 million (31 December 2007 est.)

Sweden
  $598.2 billion (30 June 2006)

Switzerland
  $1.34 trillion (30 June 2007)

Syria
  $6.633 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Taiwan
  $97.85 billion (31 December 2007)

Tajikistan
  $1.56 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Tanzania
  $4.382 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Thailand
  $59.52 billion (31 December 2007)

Togo
  $2 billion (2005)

Tonga
  $80.7 million (2004)

Trinidad and Tobago
  $2.869 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Tunisia
  $19.27 billion (December 2007)

Turkey
  $247.1 billion (31 December 2007)

Turkmenistan
  $1.4 billion to $5 billion (2004 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  $NA

Tuvalu
  $NA

Uganda
  $1.498 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Ukraine
  $69.04 billion (31 December 2007)

United Arab Emirates
  $61.68 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

United Kingdom
  $10.45 trillion (30 June 2007)

United States
  $12.25 trillion (30 June 2007)

Uruguay
  $11.42 billion (31 December 2007)

Uzbekistan
  $3.927 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Vanuatu
  $81.2 million (2004)

Venezuela
  $43.33 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Vietnam
  $21.83 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Virgin Islands
  $NA

Wallis and Futuna
  $3.67 million (2004)

West Bank
  $NA

Western Sahara
  $NA

World
  $51.78 trillion
  note: this figure is the sum total of all countries' external debt,
  both public and private (2004 est.)

Yemen
  $6.044 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Zambia
  $2.596 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Zimbabwe
  $5.155 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2080  Fiscal year


Afghanistan
  21 March - 20 March

Albania
  calendar year

Algeria
  calendar year

American Samoa
  1 October - 30 September

Andorra
  calendar year

Angola
  calendar year

Anguilla
  1 April - 31 March

Antigua and Barbuda
  1 April - 31 March

Argentina
  calendar year

Armenia
  calendar year

Aruba
  calendar year

Australia
  1 July - 30 June

Austria
  calendar year

Azerbaijan
  calendar year

Bahamas, The
  1 July - 30 June

Bahrain
  calendar year

Bangladesh
  1 July - 30 June

Barbados
  1 April - 31 March

Belarus
  calendar year

Belgium
  calendar year

Belize
  1 April - 31 March

Benin
  calendar year

Bermuda
  1 April - 31 March

Bhutan
  1 July - 30 June

Bolivia
  calendar year

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  calendar year

Botswana
  1 April - 31 March

Brazil
  calendar year

British Virgin Islands
  1 April - 31 March

Brunei
  1 April - 31 March

Bulgaria
  calendar year

Burkina Faso
  calendar year

Burma
  1 April - 31 March

Burundi
  calendar year

Cambodia
  calendar year

Cameroon
  1 July - 30 June

Canada
  1 April - 31 March

Cape Verde
  calendar year

Cayman Islands
  1 April - 31 March

Central African Republic
  calendar year

Chad
  calendar year

Chile
  calendar year

China
  calendar year

Christmas Island
  1 July - 30 June

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  1 July - 30 June

Colombia
  calendar year

Comoros
  calendar year

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  calendar year

Congo, Republic of the
  calendar year

Cook Islands
  1 April - 31 March

Costa Rica
  calendar year

Cote d'Ivoire
  calendar year

Croatia
  calendar year

Cuba
  calendar year

Cyprus
  calendar year

Czech Republic
  calendar year

Denmark
  calendar year

Djibouti
  calendar year

Dominica
  1 July - 30 June

Dominican Republic
  calendar year

Ecuador
  calendar year

Egypt
  1 July - 30 June

El Salvador
  calendar year

Equatorial Guinea
  calendar year

Eritrea
  calendar year

Estonia
  calendar year

Ethiopia
  8 July - 7 July

European Union
  NA

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  1 April - 31 March

Faroe Islands
  calendar year

Fiji
  calendar year

Finland
  calendar year

France
  calendar year

French Polynesia
  calendar year

Gabon
  calendar year

Gambia, The
  calendar year

Gaza Strip
  calendar year

Georgia
  calendar year

Germany
  calendar year

Ghana
  calendar year

Gibraltar
  1 July - 30 June

Greece
  calendar year

Greenland
  calendar year

Grenada
  calendar year

Guam
  1 October - 30 September

Guatemala
  calendar year

Guernsey
  calendar year

Guinea
  calendar year

Guinea-Bissau
  calendar year

Guyana
  calendar year

Haiti
  1 October - 30 September

Holy See (Vatican City)
  calendar year

Honduras
  calendar year

Hong Kong
  1 April - 31 March

Hungary
  calendar year

Iceland
  calendar year

India
  1 April - 31 March

Indonesia
  calendar year

Iran
  21 March - 20 March

Iraq
  calendar year

Ireland
  calendar year

Isle of Man
  1 April - 31 March

Israel
  calendar year

Italy
  calendar year

Jamaica
  1 April - 31 March

Japan
  1 April - 31 March

Jersey
  1 April - 31 March

Jordan
  calendar year

Kazakhstan
  calendar year

Kenya
  1 July - 30 June

Kiribati
  NA

Korea, North
  calendar year

Korea, South
  calendar year

Kuwait
  1 April - 31 March

Kyrgyzstan
  calendar year

Laos
  1 October - 30 September

Latvia
  calendar year

Lebanon
  calendar year

Lesotho
  1 April - 31 March

Liberia
  calendar year

Libya
  calendar year

Liechtenstein
  calendar year

Lithuania
  calendar year

Luxembourg
  calendar year

Macau
  calendar year

Macedonia
  calendar year

Madagascar
  calendar year

Malawi
  1 July - 30 June

Malaysia
  calendar year

Maldives
  calendar year

Mali
  calendar year

Malta
  calendar year

Marshall Islands
  1 October - 30 September

Mauritania
  calendar year

Mauritius
  1 July - 30 June

Mayotte
  calendar year

Mexico
  calendar year

Micronesia, Federated States of
  1 October - 30 September

Moldova
  calendar year

Monaco
  calendar year

Mongolia
  calendar year

Montenegro
  calendar year

Montserrat
  1 April - 31 March

Morocco
  calendar year

Mozambique
  calendar year

Namibia
  1 April - 31 March

Nauru
  1 July - 30 June

Nepal
  16 July - 15 July

Netherlands
  calendar year

Netherlands Antilles
  calendar year

New Caledonia
  calendar year

New Zealand
  1 April - 31 March
  note: this is the fiscal year for tax purposes

Nicaragua
  calendar year

Niger
  calendar year

Nigeria
  calendar year

Niue
  1 April - 31 March

Norfolk Island
  1 July - 30 June

Northern Mariana Islands
  1 October - 30 September

Norway
  calendar year

Oman
  calendar year

Pakistan
  1 July - 30 June

Palau
  1 October - 30 September

Panama
  calendar year

Papua New Guinea
  calendar year

Paraguay
  calendar year

Peru
  calendar year

Philippines
  calendar year

Pitcairn Islands
  1 April - 31 March

Poland
  calendar year

Portugal
  calendar year

Puerto Rico
  1 July - 30 June

Qatar
  1 April - 31 March

Romania
  calendar year

Russia
  calendar year

Rwanda
  calendar year

Saint Helena
  1 April - 31 March

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  calendar year

Saint Lucia
  1 April - 31 March

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  calendar year

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  calendar year

Samoa
  June 1 - May 31

San Marino
  calendar year

Sao Tome and Principe
  calendar year

Saudi Arabia
  calendar year

Senegal
  calendar year

Seychelles
  calendar year

Sierra Leone
  calendar year

Singapore
  1 April - 31 March

Slovakia
  calendar year

Slovenia
  calendar year

Solomon Islands
  calendar year

Somalia
  NA

South Africa
  1 April - 31 March

Spain
  calendar year

Sri Lanka
  calendar year

Sudan
  calendar year

Suriname
  calendar year

Swaziland
  1 April - 31 March

Sweden
  calendar year

Switzerland
  calendar year

Syria
  calendar year

Taiwan
  calendar year

Tajikistan
  calendar year

Tanzania
  1 July - 30 June

Thailand
  1 October - 30 September

Timor-Leste
  calendar year

Togo
  calendar year

Tokelau
  1 April - 31 March

Tonga
  1 July - 30 June

Trinidad and Tobago
  1 October - 30 September

Tunisia
  calendar year

Turkey
  calendar year

Turkmenistan
  calendar year

Turks and Caicos Islands
  calendar year

Tuvalu
  calendar year

Uganda
  1 July - 30 June

Ukraine
  calendar year

United Arab Emirates
  calendar year

United Kingdom
  6 April - 5 April

United States
  1 October - 30 September

Uruguay
  calendar year

Uzbekistan
  calendar year

Vanuatu
  calendar year

Venezuela
  calendar year

Vietnam
  calendar year

Virgin Islands
  1 October - 30 September

Wallis and Futuna
  calendar year

West Bank
  calendar year

Western Sahara
  calendar year

Yemen
  calendar year

Zambia
  calendar year

Zimbabwe
  calendar year

This page was last updated on 18 November 2008



======================================================================




@2081  Flag description


Afghanistan
  three equal vertical bands of black (hoist side), red,
  and green, with the national emblem in white centered on the red
  band and slightly overlapping the other two bands; the center of the
  emblem features a mosque with pulpit and flags on either side, below
  the mosque are numerals for the solar year 1298 (1919 in the
  Gregorian calendar, the year of Afghan independence from the UK);
  this central image is circled by a border consisting of sheaves of
  wheat on the left and right, in the upper-center is an Arabic
  inscription of the Shahada (Muslim creed) below which are rays of
  the rising sun over the Takbir (Arabic expression meaning "God is
  great"), and at bottom center is a scroll bearing the name
  Afghanistan

Akrotiri
  the flag of the UK is used

Albania
  red with a black two-headed eagle in the center

Algeria
  two equal vertical bands of green (hoist side) and white; a
  red, five-pointed star within a red crescent centered over the
  two-color boundary
  note: the crescent, star, and color green are traditional symbols of
  Islam (the state religion)

American Samoa
  blue, with a white triangle edged in red that is
  based on the fly side and extends to the hoist side; a brown and
  white American bald eagle flying toward the hoist side is carrying
  two traditional Samoan symbols of authority, a war club known as a
  "Fa'alaufa'i" (upper; left talon), and a coconut fiber fly whisk
  known as a "Fue" (lower; right talon); the combination of symbols
  broadly mimics that seen on the US Great Seal and reflects the
  relationship between the United States and American Samoa

Andorra
  three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side), yellow, and
  red with the national coat of arms centered in the yellow band; the
  coat of arms features a quartered shield
  note: similar to the flags of Chad and Romania, which do not have a
  national coat of arms in the center, and the flag of Moldova, which
  does bear a national emblem

Angola
  two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and black with a
  centered yellow emblem consisting of a five-pointed star within half
  a cogwheel crossed by a machete (in the style of a hammer and sickle)

Anguilla
  blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side
  quadrant and the Anguillan coat of arms centered in the outer half
  of the flag; the coat of arms depicts three orange dolphins in an
  interlocking circular design on a white background with blue wavy
  water below

Antigua and Barbuda
  red, with an inverted isosceles triangle based
  on the top edge of the flag; the triangle contains three horizontal
  bands of black (top), light blue, and white, with a yellow rising
  sun in the black band

Argentina
  three equal horizontal bands of light blue (top), white,
  and light blue; centered in the white band is a radiant yellow sun
  with a human face known as the Sun of May

Armenia
  three equal horizontal bands of red (top), blue, and orange

Aruba
  blue, with two narrow, horizontal, yellow stripes across the
  lower portion and a red, four-pointed star outlined in white in the
  upper hoist-side corner

Ashmore and Cartier Islands
  the flag of Australia is used

Australia
  blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side
  quadrant and a large seven-pointed star in the lower hoist-side
  quadrant known as the Commonwealth or Federation Star, representing
  the federation of the colonies of Australia in 1901; the star
  depicts one point for each of the six original states and one
  representing all of Australia's internal and external territories;
  on the fly half is a representation of the Southern Cross
  constellation in white with one small five-pointed star and four
  larger, seven-pointed stars

Austria
  three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and red

Azerbaijan
  three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), red, and
  green; a crescent and eight-pointed star in white are centered in
  red band

Bahamas, The
  three equal horizontal bands of aquamarine (top), gold,
  and aquamarine, with a black equilateral triangle based on the hoist
  side

Bahrain
  red, the traditional color for flags of Persian Gulf states,
  with a white serrated band (five white points) on the hoist side;
  the five points represent the five pillars of Islam

Bangladesh
  green field with a large red disk shifted slightly to the
  hoist side of center; the red disk represents the rising sun and the
  sacrifice to achieve independence; the green field symbolizes the
  lush vegetation of Bangladesh

Barbados
  three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side), gold, and
  blue with the head of a black trident centered on the gold band; the
  trident head represents independence and a break with the past (the
  colonial coat of arms contained a complete trident)

Belarus
  red horizontal band (top) and green horizontal band one-half
  the width of the red band; a white vertical stripe on the hoist side
  bears Belarusian national ornamentation in red

Belgium
  three equal vertical bands of black (hoist side), yellow,
  and red
  note: the design was based on the flag of France

Belize
  blue with a narrow red stripe along the top and the bottom
  edges; centered is a large white disk bearing the coat of arms; the
  coat of arms features a shield flanked by two workers in front of a
  mahogany tree with the related motto SUB UMBRA FLOREO (I Flourish in
  the Shade) on a scroll at the bottom, all encircled by a green
  garland

Benin
  two equal horizontal bands of yellow (top) and red (bottom)
  with a vertical green band on the hoist side

Bermuda
  red, with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side
  quadrant and the Bermudian coat of arms (white and green shield with
  a red lion holding a scrolled shield showing the sinking of the ship
  Sea Venture off Bermuda in 1609) centered on the outer half of the
  flag

Bhutan
  divided diagonally from the lower hoist-side corner; the
  upper triangle is yellow and the lower triangle is orange; centered
  along the dividing line is a large black and white dragon facing
  away from the hoist side

Bolivia
  three equal horizontal bands of red (top), yellow, and green
  with the coat of arms centered on the yellow band
  note: similar to the flag of Ghana, which has a large black
  five-pointed star centered in the yellow band

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  a wide medium blue vertical band on the fly
  side with a yellow isosceles triangle abutting the band and the top
  of the flag; the remainder of the flag is medium blue with seven
  full five-pointed white stars and two half stars top and bottom
  along the hypotenuse of the triangle

Botswana
  light blue with a horizontal white-edged black stripe in
  the center

Bouvet Island
  the flag of Norway is used

Brazil
  green with a large yellow diamond in the center bearing a
  blue celestial globe with 27 white five-pointed stars (one for each
  state and the Federal District) arranged in the same pattern as the
  night sky over Brazil; the globe has a white equatorial band with
  the motto ORDEM E PROGRESSO (Order and Progress)

British Indian Ocean Territory
  white with six blue wavy horizontal
  stripes; the flag of the UK is in the upper hoist-side quadrant; the
  striped section bears a palm tree and yellow crown centered on the
  outer half of the flag

British Virgin Islands
  blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper
  hoist-side quadrant and the Virgin Islander coat of arms centered in
  the outer half of the flag; the coat of arms depicts a woman flanked
  on either side by a vertical column of six oil lamps above a scroll
  bearing the Latin word VIGILATE (Be Watchful)

Brunei
  yellow with two diagonal bands of white (top, almost double
  width) and black starting from the upper hoist side; the national
  emblem in red is superimposed at the center; the emblem includes a
  swallow-tailed flag on top of a winged column within an upturned
  crescent above a scroll and flanked by two upraised hands

Bulgaria
  three equal horizontal bands of white (top), green, and red
  note: the national emblem, formerly on the hoist side of the white
  stripe, has been removed

Burkina Faso
  two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and green with
  a yellow five-pointed star in the center
  note: uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia

Burma
  red with a blue rectangle in the upper hoist-side corner
  bearing 14, white, five-pointed stars encircling a cogwheel
  containing a stalk of rice; the 14 stars represent the seven
  administrative divisions and seven states

Burundi
  divided by a white diagonal cross into red panels (top and
  bottom) and green panels (hoist side and fly side) with a white disk
  superimposed at the center bearing three red six-pointed stars
  outlined in green arranged in a triangular design (one star above,
  two stars below)

Cambodia
  three horizontal bands of blue (top), red (double width),
  and blue with a white three-towered temple representing Angkor Wat
  outlined in black in the center of the red band
  note: only national flag to incorporate an actual building in its
  design

Cameroon
  three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), red, and
  yellow with a yellow five-pointed star centered in the red band
  note: uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia

Canada
  two vertical bands of red (hoist and fly side, half width),
  with white square between them; an 11-pointed red maple leaf is
  centered in the white square; the official colors of Canada are red
  and white

Cape Verde
  five unequal horizontal bands; the top-most band of blue
  - equal to one half the width of the flag - is followed by three
  bands of white, red, and white, each equal to 1/12 of the width, and
  a bottom stripe of blue equal to one quarter of the flag width; a
  circle of 10, yellow, five-pointed stars, each representing one of
  the islands, is centered on the red stripe and positioned 3/8 of the
  length of the flag from the hoist side

Cayman Islands
  blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side
  quadrant and the Caymanian coat of arms centered on the outer half
  of the flag; the coat of arms includes a pineapple and turtle above
  a shield with three stars (representing the three islands) and a
  scroll at the bottom bearing the motto HE HATH FOUNDED IT UPON THE
  SEAS

Central African Republic
  four equal horizontal bands of blue (top),
  white, green, and yellow with a vertical red band in center; a
  yellow five-pointed star to the hoist side of the blue band

Chad
  three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side), yellow, and red
  note: similar to the flag of Romania; also similar to the flags of
  Andorra and Moldova, both of which have a national coat of arms
  centered in the yellow band; design was based on the flag of France

Chile
  two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and red; a blue
  square the same height as the white band at the hoist-side end of
  the white band; the square bears a white five-pointed star in the
  center representing a guide to progress and honor; blue symbolizes
  the sky, white is for the snow-covered Andes, and red represents the
  blood spilled to achieve independence
  note: design was influenced by the US flag

China
  red with a large yellow five-pointed star and four smaller
  yellow five-pointed stars (arranged in a vertical arc toward the
  middle of the flag) in the upper hoist-side corner

Christmas Island
  territorial flag; divided diagonally from upper
  hoist to lower fly; the upper triangle is green with a yellow image
  of the Golden Bosun Bird superimposed, while the lower triangle is
  blue with the Southern Cross constellation, representing Australia,
  superimposed; a centered yellow disk displays a green map of the
  island
  note: the flag of Australia is used for official purposes

Clipperton Island
  the flag of France is used

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  the flag of Australia is used

Colombia
  three horizontal bands of yellow (top, double-width), blue,
  and red
  note: similar to the flag of Ecuador, which is longer and bears the
  Ecuadorian coat of arms superimposed in the center

Comoros
  four equal horizontal bands of yellow (top), white, red, and
  blue with a green isosceles triangle based on the hoist; centered
  within the triangle is a white crescent with the convex side facing
  the hoist and four white, five-pointed stars placed vertically in a
  line between the points of the crescent; the horizontal bands and
  the four stars represent the four main islands of the archipelago -
  Mwali, Njazidja, Nzwani, and Mahore (Mayotte - territorial
  collectivity of France, but claimed by Comoros)
  note: the crescent, stars, and color green are traditional symbols
  of Islam

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  sky blue field divided diagonally
  from the lower hoist corner to upper fly corner by a red stripe
  bordered by two narrow yellow stripes; a yellow, five-pointed star
  appears in the upper hoist corner

Congo, Republic of the
  divided diagonally from the lower hoist side
  by a yellow band; the upper triangle (hoist side) is green and the
  lower triangle is red
  note: uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia

Cook Islands
  blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side
  quadrant and a large circle of 15 white five-pointed stars (one for
  every island) centered in the outer half of the flag

Coral Sea Islands
  the flag of Australia is used

Costa Rica
  five horizontal bands of blue (top), white, red (double
  width), white, and blue, with the coat of arms in a white elliptical
  disk on the hoist side of the red band; above the coat of arms a
  light blue ribbon contains the words, AMERICA CENTRAL, and just
  below it near the top of the coat of arms is a white ribbon with the
  words, REPUBLICA COSTA RICA

Cote d'Ivoire
  three equal vertical bands of orange (hoist side),
  white, and green
  note: similar to the flag of Ireland, which is longer and has the
  colors reversed - green (hoist side), white, and orange; also
  similar to the flag of Italy, which is green (hoist side), white,
  and red; design was based on the flag of France

Croatia
  three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and blue
  superimposed by the Croatian coat of arms (red and white checkered)

Cuba
  five equal horizontal bands of blue (top, center, and bottom)
  alternating with white; a red equilateral triangle based on the
  hoist side bears a white, five-pointed star in the center

Cyprus
  white with a copper-colored silhouette of the island (the
  name Cyprus is derived from the Greek word for copper) above two
  green crossed olive branches in the center of the flag; the branches
  symbolize the hope for peace and reconciliation between the Greek
  and Turkish communities
  note: the "Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus" flag has a white
  field with narrow horizontal red stripes positioned a small distance
  from the top and bottom edges between which is centered a red
  crescent and a red five-pointed star

Czech Republic
  two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and red
  with a blue isosceles triangle based on the hoist side
  note: identical to the flag of the former Czechoslovakia

Denmark
  red with a white cross that extends to the edges of the
  flag; the vertical part of the cross is shifted to the hoist side;
  the banner is referred to as the Dannebrog (Danish flag)
  note: the shifted design element was subsequently adopted by the
  other Nordic countries of Finland, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden

Dhekelia
  the flag of the UK is used

Djibouti
  two equal horizontal bands of light blue (top) and light
  green with a white isosceles triangle based on the hoist side
  bearing a red five-pointed star in the center

Dominica
  green, with a centered cross of three equal bands - the
  vertical part is yellow (hoist side), black, and white and the
  horizontal part is yellow (top), black, and white; superimposed in
  the center of the cross is a red disk bearing a sisserou parrot
  encircled by 10 green, five-pointed stars edged in yellow; the 10
  stars represent the 10 administrative divisions (parishes)

Dominican Republic
  a centered white cross that extends to the edges
  divides the flag into four rectangles - the top ones are blue (hoist
  side) and red, and the bottom ones are red (hoist side) and blue; a
  small coat of arms featuring a shield supported by an olive branch
  (left) and a palm branch (right) is at the center of the cross;
  above the shield a blue ribbon displays the motto, DIOS, PATRIA,
  LIBERTAD (God, Fatherland, Liberty), and below the shield, REPUBLICA
  DOMINICANA appears on a red ribbon

Ecuador
  three horizontal bands of yellow (top, double width), blue,
  and red with the coat of arms superimposed at the center of the
  flag; similar to the flag of Colombia, which is shorter and does not
  bear a coat of arms

Egypt
  three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and black;
  the national emblem (a gold Eagle of Saladin facing the hoist side
  with a shield superimposed on its chest above a scroll bearing the
  name of the country in Arabic) centered in the white band; design is
  based on the Arab Liberation flag and similar to the flag of Syria,
  which has two green stars in the white band, Iraq, which has an
  Arabic inscription centered in the white band, and Yemen, which has
  a plain white band

El Salvador
  three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), white, and
  blue with the national coat of arms centered in the white band; the
  coat of arms features a round emblem encircled by the words
  REPUBLICA DE EL SALVADOR EN LA AMERICA CENTRAL; similar to the flag
  of Nicaragua, which has a different coat of arms centered in the
  white band - it features a triangle encircled by the words REPUBLICA
  DE NICARAGUA on top and AMERICA CENTRAL on the bottom; also similar
  to the flag of Honduras, which has five blue stars arranged in an X
  pattern centered in the white band

Equatorial Guinea
  three equal horizontal bands of green (top),
  white, and red with a blue isosceles triangle based on the hoist
  side and the coat of arms centered in the white band; the coat of
  arms has six yellow six-pointed stars (representing the mainland and
  five offshore islands) above a gray shield bearing a silk-cotton
  tree and below which is a scroll with the motto UNIDAD, PAZ,
  JUSTICIA (Unity, Peace, Justice)

Eritrea
  red isosceles triangle (based on the hoist side) dividing
  the flag into two right triangles; the upper triangle is green, the
  lower one is blue; a gold wreath encircling a gold olive branch is
  centered on the hoist side of the red triangle

Estonia
  pre-1940 flag restored by Supreme Soviet in May 1990 - three
  equal horizontal bands of blue (top), black, and white

Ethiopia
  three equal horizontal bands of green (top), yellow, and
  red with a yellow pentagram and single yellow rays emanating from
  the angles between the points on a light blue disk centered on the
  three bands; Ethiopia is the oldest independent country in Africa,
  and the three main colors of her flag were so often adopted by other
  African countries upon independence that they became known as the
  pan-African colors

European Union
  blue field with 12 five-pointed gold stars arranged
  in a circle in the center, representing the union of the peoples of
  Europe; the number of stars is fixed

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  blue with the flag of the UK in
  the upper hoist-side quadrant and the Falkland Island coat of arms
  centered on the outer half of the flag; the coat of arms contains a
  white ram (sheep raising was once the major economic activity) above
  the sailing ship Desire (whose crew discovered the islands) with a
  scroll at the bottom bearing the motto DESIRE THE RIGHT

Faroe Islands
  white with a red cross outlined in blue extending to
  the edges of the flag; the vertical part of the cross is shifted
  toward the hoist side in the style of the Dannebrog (Danish flag)

Fiji
  light blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side
  quadrant and the Fijian shield centered on the outer half of the
  flag; the shield depicts a yellow lion above a white field quartered
  by the cross of Saint George featuring stalks of sugarcane, a palm
  tree, bananas, and a white dove

Finland
  white with a blue cross extending to the edges of the flag;
  the vertical part of the cross is shifted to the hoist side in the
  style of the Dannebrog (Danish flag)

France
  three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side), white, and
  red; known as the "Le drapeau tricolore" (French Tricolor), the
  origin of the flag dates to 1790 and the French Revolution; the
  design and/or colors are similar to a number of other flags,
  including those of Belgium, Chad, Ireland, Cote d'Ivoire,
  Luxembourg, and Netherlands; the official flag for all French
  dependent areas

French Polynesia
  two narrow red horizontal bands encase a wide white
  band; centered on the white band is a disk with a blue and white
  wave pattern on the lower half and a gold and white ray pattern on
  the upper half; a stylized red, blue, and white ship rides on the
  wave pattern; the French flag is used for official occasions

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  the flag of France is used

Gabon
  three equal horizontal bands of green (top), yellow, and blue

Gambia, The
  three equal horizontal bands of red (top), blue with
  white edges, and green

Georgia
  white rectangle, in its central portion a red cross
  connecting all four sides of the flag; in each of the four corners
  is a small red bolnur-katskhuri cross; the five-cross flag appears
  to date back to the 14th century

Germany
  three equal horizontal bands of black (top), red, and gold

Ghana
  three equal horizontal bands of red (top), yellow, and green
  with a large black five-pointed star centered in the yellow band;
  uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia; similar to the flag
  of Bolivia, which has a coat of arms centered in the yellow band

Gibraltar
  two horizontal bands of white (top, double width) and red
  with a three-towered red castle in the center of the white band;
  hanging from the castle gate is a gold key centered in the red band

Greece
  nine equal horizontal stripes of blue alternating with white;
  there is a blue square in the upper hoist-side corner bearing a
  white cross; the cross symbolizes Greek Orthodoxy, the established
  religion of the country

Greenland
  two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and red with a
  large disk slightly to the hoist side of center - the top half of
  the disk is red, the bottom half is white

Grenada
  a rectangle divided diagonally into yellow triangles (top
  and bottom) and green triangles (hoist side and outer side), with a
  red border around the flag; there are seven yellow, five-pointed
  stars with three centered in the top red border, three centered in
  the bottom red border, and one on a red disk superimposed at the
  center of the flag; there is also a symbolic nutmeg pod on the
  hoist-side triangle (Grenada is the world's second-largest producer
  of nutmeg, after Indonesia); the seven stars represent the seven
  administrative divisions

Guam
  territorial flag is dark blue with a narrow red border on all
  four sides; centered is a red-bordered, pointed, vertical ellipse
  containing a beach scene, outrigger canoe with sail, and a palm tree
  with the word GUAM superimposed in bold red letters; US flag is the
  national flag

Guatemala
  three equal vertical bands of light blue (hoist side),
  white, and light blue with the coat of arms centered in the white
  band; the coat of arms includes a green and red quetzal (the
  national bird) and a scroll bearing the inscription LIBERTAD 15 DE
  SEPTIEMBRE DE 1821 (the original date of independence from Spain)
  all superimposed on a pair of crossed rifles and a pair of crossed
  swords and framed by a wreath

Guernsey
  white with the red cross of Saint George (patron saint of
  England) extending to the edges of the flag and a yellow equal-armed
  cross of William the Conqueror superimposed on the Saint George cross

Guinea
  three equal vertical bands of red (hoist side), yellow, and
  green; uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia

Guinea-Bissau
  two equal horizontal bands of yellow (top) and green
  with a vertical red band on the hoist side; there is a black
  five-pointed star centered in the red band; uses the popular
  pan-African colors of Ethiopia

Guyana
  green, with a red isosceles triangle (based on the hoist
  side) superimposed on a long, yellow arrowhead; there is a narrow,
  black border between the red and yellow, and a narrow, white border
  between the yellow and the green

Haiti
  two equal horizontal bands of blue (top) and red with a
  centered white rectangle bearing the coat of arms, which contains a
  palm tree flanked by flags and two cannons above a scroll bearing
  the motto L'UNION FAIT LA FORCE (Union Makes Strength)

Heard Island and McDonald Islands
  the flag of Australia is used

Holy See (Vatican City)
  two vertical bands of yellow (hoist side)
  and white with the arms of the Holy See, consisting of the crossed
  keys of Saint Peter surmounted by the three-tiered papal tiara,
  centered in the white band

Honduras
  three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), white, and blue
  with five blue, five-pointed stars arranged in an X pattern centered
  in the white band; the stars represent the members of the former
  Federal Republic of Central America - Costa Rica, El Salvador,
  Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua; similar to the flag of El
  Salvador, which features a round emblem encircled by the words
  REPUBLICA DE EL SALVADOR EN LA AMERICA CENTRAL centered in the white
  band; also similar to the flag of Nicaragua, which features a
  triangle encircled by the word REPUBLICA DE NICARAGUA on top and
  AMERICA CENTRAL on the bottom, centered in the white band

Hong Kong
  red with a stylized, white, five-petal bauhinia flower in
  the center

Hungary
  three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and green

Iceland
  blue with a red cross outlined in white extending to the
  edges of the flag; the vertical part of the cross is shifted to the
  hoist side in the style of the Dannebrog (Danish flag)

India
  three equal horizontal bands of saffron (subdued orange)
  (top), white, and green with a blue chakra (24-spoked wheel)
  centered in the white band; similar to the flag of Niger, which has
  a small orange disk centered in the white band

Indonesia
  two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and white; similar
  to the flag of Monaco, which is shorter; also similar to the flag of
  Poland, which is white (top) and red

Iran
  three equal horizontal bands of green (top), white, and red;
  the national emblem (a stylized representation of the word Allah in
  the shape of a tulip, a symbol of martyrdom) in red is centered in
  the white band; ALLAH AKBAR (God is Great) in white Arabic script is
  repeated 11 times along the bottom edge of the green band and 11
  times along the top edge of the red band

Iraq
  three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and black;
  the Takbir (Arabic expression meaning "God is great") in green
  Arabic script is centered in the white band; similar to the flag of
  Syria, which has two stars but no script, Yemen, which has a plain
  white band, and that of Egypt, which has a gold Eagle of Saladin
  centered in the white band; design is based upon the Arab Liberation
  colors; Council of Representatives approved this flag as a
  compromise temporary replacement for Ba'athist Saddam-era flag

Ireland
  three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), white, and
  orange; similar to the flag of Cote d'Ivoire, which is shorter and
  has the colors reversed - orange (hoist side), white, and green;
  also similar to the flag of Italy, which is shorter and has colors
  of green (hoist side), white, and red

Isle of Man
  red with the Three Legs of Man emblem (Trinacria), in
  the center; the three legs are joined at the thigh and bent at the
  knee; in order to have the toes pointing clockwise on both sides of
  the flag, a two-sided emblem is used

Israel
  white with a blue hexagram (six-pointed linear star) known as
  the Magen David (Shield of David) centered between two equal
  horizontal blue bands near the top and bottom edges of the flag

Italy
  three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), white, and
  red; similar to the flag of Ireland, which is longer and is green
  (hoist side), white, and orange; also similar to the flag of the
  Cote d'Ivoire, which has the colors reversed - orange (hoist side),
  white, and green; inspired by the French flag brought to Italy by
  Napoleon in 1797

Jamaica
  diagonal yellow cross divides the flag into four triangles -
  green (top and bottom) and black (hoist side and outer side)

Jan Mayen
  the flag of Norway is used

Japan
  white with a large red disk (representing the sun without
  rays) in the center

Jersey
  white with a diagonal red cross extending to the corners of
  the flag; in the upper quadrant, surmounted by a yellow crown, a red
  shield with the three lions of England in yellow

Jordan
  three equal horizontal bands of black (top), representing the
  Abbassid Caliphate, white, representing the Ummayyad Caliphate, and
  green, representing the Fatimid Caliphate; a red isosceles triangle
  on the hoist side, representing the Great Arab Revolt of 1916, and
  bearing a small white seven-pointed star symbolizing the seven
  verses of the opening Sura (Al-Fatiha) of the Holy Koran; the seven
  points on the star represent faith in One God, humanity, national
  spirit, humility, social justice, virtue, and aspirations; design is
  based on the Arab Revolt flag of World War I

Kazakhstan
  sky blue background representing the endless sky and a
  gold sun with 32 rays above a soaring golden steppe eagle in the
  center; on the hoist side is a "national ornamentation" in gold

Kenya
  three equal horizontal bands of black (top), red, and green;
  the red band is edged in white; a large warrior's shield covering
  crossed spears is superimposed at the center

Kiribati
  the upper half is red with a yellow frigate bird flying
  over a yellow rising sun, and the lower half is blue with three
  horizontal wavy white stripes to represent the ocean

Korea, North
  three horizontal bands of blue (top), red (triple
  width), and blue; the red band is edged in white; on the hoist side
  of the red band is a white disk with a red five-pointed star

Korea, South
  white with a red (top) and blue yin-yang symbol in the
  center; there is a different black trigram from the ancient I Ching
  (Book of Changes) in each corner of the white field

Kosovo
  centered on a dark blue field is the geographical shape of
  Kosovo in a gold color surmounted by six white, five-pointed stars -
  each representing one of the major ethnic groups of Kosovo - arrayed
  in a slight arc

Kuwait
  three equal horizontal bands of green (top), white, and red
  with a black trapezoid based on the hoist side; design, which dates
  to 1961, based on the Arab revolt flag of World War I

Kyrgyzstan
  red field with a yellow sun in the center having 40 rays
  representing the 40 Kyrgyz tribes; on the obverse side the rays run
  counterclockwise, on the reverse, clockwise; in the center of the
  sun is a red ring crossed by two sets of three lines, a stylized
  representation of the roof of the traditional Kyrgyz yurt

Laos
  three horizontal bands of red (top), blue (double width), and
  red with a large white disk centered in the blue band

Latvia
  three horizontal bands of maroon (top), white (half-width),
  and maroon

Lebanon
  three horizontal bands consisting of red (top), white
  (middle, double width), and red (bottom) with a green cedar tree
  centered in the white band

Lesotho
  three horizontal stripes of blue (top), white, and green in
  the proportions of 3:4:3; the colors represent rain, peace, and
  prosperity respectively; centered in the white stripe is a black
  Basotho hat representing the indigenous people; the flag was
  unfurled in October 2006 to celebrate 40 years of independence

Liberia
  11 equal horizontal stripes of red (top and bottom)
  alternating with white; there is a white five-pointed star on a blue
  square in the upper hoist-side corner; the design was based on the
  US flag

Libya
  plain green; green is the traditional color of Islam (the
  state religion)

Liechtenstein
  two equal horizontal bands of blue (top) and red with
  a gold crown on the hoist side of the blue band

Lithuania
  three equal horizontal bands of yellow (top), green, and
  red

Luxembourg
  three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and
  light blue; similar to the flag of the Netherlands, which uses a
  darker blue and is shorter; design was based on the flag of France

Macau
  light green with a lotus flower above a stylized bridge and
  water in white, beneath an arc of five gold, five-pointed stars: one
  large in center of arc and four smaller

Macedonia
  a yellow sun with eight broadening rays extending to the
  edges of the red field

Madagascar
  two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and green with a
  vertical white band of the same width on hoist side

Malawi
  three equal horizontal bands of black (top), red, and green
  with a radiant, rising, red sun centered in the black band

Malaysia
  14 equal horizontal stripes of red (top) alternating with
  white (bottom); there is a blue rectangle in the upper hoist-side
  corner bearing a yellow crescent and a yellow 14-pointed star; the
  crescent and the star are traditional symbols of Islam; the design
  was based on the flag of the US

Maldives
  red with a large green rectangle in the center bearing a
  vertical white crescent; the closed side of the crescent is on the
  hoist side of the flag

Mali
  three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), yellow, and
  red; uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia

Malta
  two equal vertical bands of white (hoist side) and red; in the
  upper hoist-side corner is a representation of the George Cross,
  edged in red

Marshall Islands
  blue with two stripes radiating from the lower
  hoist-side corner - orange (top) and white; there is a white star
  with four large rays and 20 small rays on the hoist side above the
  two stripes

Mauritania
  green with a yellow five-pointed star above a yellow,
  horizontal crescent; the closed side of the crescent is down; the
  crescent, star, and color green are traditional symbols of Islam

Mauritius
  four equal horizontal bands of red (top), blue, yellow,
  and green

Mayotte
  unofficial, local flag with the coat of arms of Mayotte
  centered on a white field, above which the name of the island
  appears in red capital letters; the main elements of the coat of
  arms, flanked on either side by a seahorse, appear above a scroll
  with the motto RA HACHIRI (We are Vigilant); the only official flag
  is the national flag of France

Mexico
  three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), white, and
  red; the coat of arms (an eagle with a snake in its beak perched on
  a cactus) is centered in the white band

Micronesia, Federated States of
  light blue with four white
  five-pointed stars centered; the stars are arranged in a diamond
  pattern

Moldova
  three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side), yellow, and
  red; emblem in center of flag is of a Roman eagle of gold outlined
  in black with a red beak and talons carrying a yellow cross in its
  beak and a green olive branch in its right talons and a yellow
  scepter in its left talons; on its breast is a shield divided
  horizontally red over blue with a stylized ox head, star, rose, and
  crescent all in black-outlined yellow; same color scheme as Romania

Monaco
  two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and white; similar to
  the flag of Indonesia which is longer and the flag of Poland which
  is white (top) and red

Mongolia
  three equal, vertical bands of red (hoist side), blue, and
  red; centered on the hoist-side red band in yellow is the national
  emblem ("soyombo" - a columnar arrangement of abstract and geometric
  representation for fire, sun, moon, earth, water, and the yin-yang
  symbol)

Montenegro
  a red field bordered by a narrow golden-yellow stripe
  with the Montenegrin coat of arms centered

Montserrat
  blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side
  quadrant and the Montserratian coat of arms centered in the outer
  half of the flag; the coat of arms features a woman standing beside
  a yellow harp with her arm around a black cross

Morocco
  red with a green pentacle (five-pointed, linear star) known
  as Sulayman's (Solomon's) seal in the center of the flag; red and
  green are traditional colors in Arab flags, although the use of red
  is more commonly associated with the Arab states of the Persian
  gulf; design dates to 1912

Mozambique
  three equal horizontal bands of green (top), black, and
  yellow with a red isosceles triangle based on the hoist side; the
  black band is edged in white; centered in the triangle is a yellow
  five-pointed star bearing a crossed rifle and hoe in black
  superimposed on an open white book

Namibia
  a wide red stripe edged by narrow white stripes divides the
  flag diagonally from lower hoist corner to upper fly corner; the
  upper hoist-side triangle is blue and charged with a yellow,
  12-rayed sunburst; the lower fly-side triangle is green

Nauru
  blue with a narrow, horizontal, yellow stripe across the
  center and a large white 12-pointed star below the stripe on the
  hoist side; the star indicates the country's location in relation to
  the Equator (the yellow stripe) and the 12 points symbolize the 12
  original tribes of Nauru

Navassa Island
  the flag of the US is used

Nepal
  red with a blue border around the unique shape of two
  overlapping right triangles; the smaller, upper triangle bears a
  white stylized moon and the larger, lower triangle bears a white
  12-pointed sun

Netherlands
  three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and
  blue; similar to the flag of Luxembourg, which uses a lighter blue
  and is longer; one of the oldest flags in constant use, originating
  with WILLIAM I, Prince of Orange, in the latter half of the 16th
  century

Netherlands Antilles
  white, with a horizontal blue stripe in the
  center superimposed on a vertical red band, also centered; five
  white, five-pointed stars are arranged in an oval pattern in the
  center of the blue band; the five stars represent the five main
  islands of Bonaire, Curacao, Saba, Sint Eustatius, and Sint Maarten

New Caledonia
  the flag of France is used

New Zealand
  blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side
  quadrant with four red five-pointed stars edged in white centered in
  the outer half of the flag; the stars represent the Southern Cross
  constellation

Nicaragua
  three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), white, and
  blue with the national coat of arms centered in the white band; the
  coat of arms features a triangle encircled by the words REPUBLICA DE
  NICARAGUA on the top and AMERICA CENTRAL on the bottom; similar to
  the flag of El Salvador, which features a round emblem encircled by
  the words REPUBLICA DE EL SALVADOR EN LA AMERICA CENTRAL centered in
  the white band; also similar to the flag of Honduras, which has five
  blue stars arranged in an X pattern centered in the white band

Niger
  three equal horizontal bands of orange (top), white, and green
  with a small orange disk (representing the sun) centered in the
  white band; similar to the flag of India, which has a blue spoked
  wheel centered in the white band

Nigeria
  three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), white, and
  green

Niue
  yellow with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side
  quadrant; the flag of the UK bears five yellow five-pointed stars -
  a large star on a blue disk in the center and a smaller star on each
  arm of the bold red cross

Norfolk Island
  three vertical bands of green (hoist side), white,
  and green with a large green Norfolk Island pine tree centered in
  the slightly wider white band

Northern Mariana Islands
  blue, with a white, five-pointed star
  superimposed on the gray silhouette of a latte stone (a traditional
  foundation stone used in building) in the center, surrounded by a
  wreath

Norway
  red with a blue cross outlined in white that extends to the
  edges of the flag; the vertical part of the cross is shifted to the
  hoist side in the style of the Dannebrog (Danish flag)

Oman
  three horizontal bands of white, red, and green of equal width
  with a broad, vertical, red band on the hoist side; the national
  emblem (a khanjar dagger in its sheath superimposed on two crossed
  swords in scabbards) in white is centered near the top of the
  vertical band

Pakistan
  green with a vertical white band (symbolizing the role of
  religious minorities) on the hoist side; a large white crescent and
  star are centered in the green field; the crescent, star, and color
  green are traditional symbols of Islam

Palau
  light blue with a large yellow disk (representing the moon)
  shifted slightly to the hoist side

Panama
  divided into four, equal rectangles; the top quadrants are
  white (hoist side) with a blue five-pointed star in the center and
  plain red; the bottom quadrants are plain blue (hoist side) and
  white with a red five-pointed star in the center

Papua New Guinea
  divided diagonally from upper hoist-side corner;
  the upper triangle is red with a soaring yellow bird of paradise
  centered; the lower triangle is black with five, white, five-pointed
  stars of the Southern Cross constellation centered

Paraguay
  three equal, horizontal bands of red (top), white, and blue
  with an emblem centered in the white band; unusual flag in that the
  emblem is different on each side; the obverse (hoist side at the
  left) bears the national coat of arms (a yellow five-pointed star
  within a green wreath capped by the words REPUBLICA DEL PARAGUAY,
  all within two circles); the reverse (hoist side at the right) bears
  the seal of the treasury (a yellow lion below a red Cap of Liberty
  and the words Paz y Justicia (Peace and Justice) capped by the words
  REPUBLICA DEL PARAGUAY, all within two circles)

Peru
  three equal, vertical bands of red (hoist side), white, and red
  with the coat of arms centered in the white band; the coat of arms
  features a shield bearing a vicuna, cinchona tree (the source of
  quinine), and a yellow cornucopia spilling out gold coins, all
  framed by a green wreath

Philippines
  two equal horizontal bands of blue (top; representing
  peace and justice) and red (representing courage); a white
  equilateral triangle based on the hoist side represents equality;
  the center of the triangle displays a yellow sun with eight primary
  rays, each representing one of the first eight provinces that sought
  independence from Spain; each corner of the triangle contains a
  small, yellow, five-pointed star representing the three major
  geographical divisions of the country: Luzon, Visayas, and Mindanao;
  the design of the flag dates to 1897; in wartime the flag is flown
  upside down with the red band at the top

Pitcairn Islands
  blue with the flag of the UK in the upper
  hoist-side quadrant and the Pitcairn Islander coat of arms centered
  on the outer half of the flag; the coat of arms is yellow, green,
  and light blue with a shield featuring a yellow anchor

Poland
  two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and red; similar to
  the flags of Indonesia and Monaco which are red (top) and white

Portugal
  two vertical bands of green (hoist side, two-fifths) and
  red (three-fifths) with the Portuguese coat of arms centered on the
  dividing line

Puerto Rico
  five equal horizontal bands of red (top and bottom)
  alternating with white; a blue isosceles triangle based on the hoist
  side bears a large, white, five-pointed star in the center; design
  initially influenced by the US flag, but similar to the Cuban flag,
  with the colors of the bands and triangle reversed

Qatar
  maroon with a broad white serrated band (nine white points) on
  the hoist side

Romania
  three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side), yellow, and
  red; the national coat of arms that used to be centered in the
  yellow band has been removed; now similar to the flag of Chad, also
  resembles the flags of Andorra and Moldova

Russia
  three equal horizontal bands of white (top), blue, and red

Rwanda
  three horizontal bands of sky blue (top, double width),
  yellow, and green, with a golden sun with 24 rays near the fly end
  of the blue band

Saint Barthelemy
  the flag of France is used

Saint Helena
  blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side
  quadrant and the Saint Helenian shield centered on the outer half of
  the flag; the shield features a rocky coastline and three-masted
  sailing ship

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  divided diagonally from the lower hoist side
  by a broad black band bearing two white, five-pointed stars; the
  black band is edged in yellow; the upper triangle is green, the
  lower triangle is red

Saint Lucia
  blue, with a gold isosceles triangle below a black
  arrowhead; the upper edges of the arrowhead have a white border

Saint Martin
  the flag of France is used

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  a yellow sailing ship facing the hoist
  side rides on a dark blue background with yellow wavy lines under
  the ship; on the hoist side, a vertical band is divided into three
  parts: the top part (called ikkurina) is red with a green diagonal
  cross extending to the corners overlaid by a white cross dividing
  the rectangle into four sections; the middle part has a white
  background with an ermine pattern; the third part has a red
  background with two stylized yellow lions outlined in black, one
  above the other; these three heraldic arms represent settlement by
  colonists from the Basque Country (top), Brittany, and Normandy; the
  flag of France is used for official occasions

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  three vertical bands of blue (hoist
  side), gold (double width), and green; the gold band bears three
  green diamonds arranged in a V pattern

Samoa
  red with a blue rectangle in the upper hoist-side quadrant
  bearing five white five-pointed stars representing the Southern
  Cross constellation

San Marino
  two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and light blue
  with the national coat of arms superimposed in the center; the coat
  of arms has a shield (featuring three towers on three peaks) flanked
  by a wreath, below a crown and above a scroll bearing the word
  LIBERTAS (Liberty)

Sao Tome and Principe
  three horizontal bands of green (top), yellow
  (double width), and green with two black five-pointed stars placed
  side by side in the center of the yellow band and a red isosceles
  triangle based on the hoist side; uses the popular pan-African
  colors of Ethiopia

Saudi Arabia
  green, a traditional color in Islamic flags, with the
  Shahada or Muslim creed in large white Arabic script (translated as
  "There is no god but God; Muhammad is the Messenger of God") above a
  white horizontal saber (the tip points to the hoist side); design
  dates to the early twentieth century and is closely associated with
  the Al Saud family which established the kingdom in 1932

Senegal
  three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), yellow,
  and red with a small green five-pointed star centered in the yellow
  band; uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia

Serbia
  three equal horizontal stripes of red (top), blue, and white;
  charged with the coat of arms of Serbia shifted slightly to the
  hoist side

Seychelles
  five oblique bands of blue (hoist side), yellow, red,
  white, and green (bottom) radiating from the bottom of the hoist side

Sierra Leone
  three equal horizontal bands of light green (top),
  white, and light blue

Singapore
  two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and white; near
  the hoist side of the red band, there is a vertical, white crescent
  (closed portion is toward the hoist side) partially enclosing five
  white five-pointed stars arranged in a circle

Slovakia
  three equal horizontal bands of white (top), blue, and red
  superimposed with the coat of arms of Slovakia (consisting of a red
  shield bordered in white and bearing a white Cross of Lorraine
  surmounting three blue hills); the coat of arms is centered
  vertically and offset slightly to the hoist side

Slovenia
  three equal horizontal bands of white (top), blue, and red,
  with the Slovenian seal (a shield with the image of Triglav,
  Slovenia's highest peak, in white against a blue background at the
  center; beneath it are two wavy blue lines depicting seas and
  rivers, and above it are three six-pointed stars arranged in an
  inverted triangle, which are taken from the coat of arms of the
  Counts of Celje, the great Slovene dynastic house of the late 14th
  and early 15th centuries); the seal is in the upper hoist side of
  the flag centered on the white and blue bands

Solomon Islands
  divided diagonally by a thin yellow stripe from the
  lower hoist-side corner; the upper triangle (hoist side) is blue
  with five white five-pointed stars arranged in an X pattern; the
  lower triangle is green

Somalia
  light blue with a large white five-pointed star in the
  center; blue field influenced by the flag of the UN

South Africa
  two equal width horizontal bands of red (top) and blue
  separated by a central green band that splits into a horizontal Y,
  the arms of which end at the corners of the hoist side; the Y
  embraces a black isosceles triangle from which the arms are
  separated by narrow yellow bands; the red and blue bands are
  separated from the green band and its arms by narrow white stripes

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  blue, with the flag of
  the UK in the upper hoist-side quadrant and the South Georgia and
  the South Sandwich Islands coat of arms centered on the outer half
  of the flag; the coat of arms features a shield with a golden lion
  centered; the shield is supported by a fur seal on the left and a
  penguin on the right; a reindeer appears above the shield, and below
  it on a scroll is the motto LEO TERRAM PROPRIAM PROTEGAT (Let the
  Lion Protect its Own Land)

Spain
  three horizontal bands of red (top), yellow (double width),
  and red with the national coat of arms on the hoist side of the
  yellow band; the coat of arms is quartered to display the emblems of
  the traditional kingdoms of Spain (clockwise from upper left,
  Castile, Leon, Navarre, and Aragon) while Granada is represented by
  the stylized pomegranate at the bottom of the shield; the arms are
  framed by two columns representing the Pillars of Hercules, which
  are the two promontories (Gibraltar and Ceuta) on either side of the
  eastern end of the Strait of Gibraltar; the red scroll across the
  two columns bears the imperial motto of "Plus Ultra" (further
  beyond) referring to Spanish lands beyond Europe

Sri Lanka
  yellow with two panels; the smaller hoist-side panel has
  two equal vertical bands of green (hoist side) and orange; the other
  panel is a large dark red rectangle with a yellow lion holding a
  sword, and there is a yellow bo leaf in each corner; the yellow
  field appears as a border around the entire flag and extends between
  the two panels

Sudan
  three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and black
  with a green isosceles triangle based on the hoist side

Suriname
  five horizontal bands of green (top, double width), white,
  red (quadruple width), white, and green (double width); there is a
  large, yellow, five-pointed star centered in the red band

Svalbard
  the flag of Norway is used

Swaziland
  three horizontal bands of blue (top), red (triple width),
  and blue; the red band is edged in yellow; centered in the red band
  is a large black and white shield covering two spears and a staff
  decorated with feather tassels, all placed horizontally

Sweden
  blue with a golden yellow cross extending to the edges of the
  flag; the vertical part of the cross is shifted to the hoist side in
  the style of the Dannebrog (Danish flag)

Switzerland
  red square with a bold, equilateral white cross in the
  center that does not extend to the edges of the flag

Syria
  three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and black,
  colors associated with the Arab Liberation flag; two small, green,
  five-pointed stars in a horizontal line centered in the white band;
  former flag of the United Arab Republic where the two stars
  represented the constituent states of Syria and Egypt; similar to
  the flag of Yemen, which has a plain white band, Iraq, which has an
  Arabic inscription centered in the white band, and that of Egypt,
  which has a gold Eagle of Saladin centered in the white band; the
  current design dates to 1980

Taiwan
  red field with a dark blue rectangle in the upper hoist-side
  corner bearing a white sun with 12 triangular rays

Tajikistan
  three horizontal stripes of red (top), a wider stripe of
  white, and green; a gold crown surmounted by seven gold,
  five-pointed stars is located in the center of the white stripe

Tanzania
  divided diagonally by a yellow-edged black band from the
  lower hoist-side corner; the upper triangle (hoist side) is green
  and the lower triangle is blue

Thailand
  five horizontal bands of red (top), white, blue (double
  width), white, and red

Timor-Leste
  red, with a black isosceles triangle (based on the hoist
  side) superimposed on a slightly longer yellow arrowhead that
  extends to the center of the flag; a white star is in the center of
  the black triangle

Togo
  five equal horizontal bands of green (top and bottom)
  alternating with yellow; a white five-pointed star on a red square
  is in the upper hoist-side corner; uses the popular pan-African
  colors of Ethiopia

Tokelau
  the flag of New Zealand is used

Tonga
  red with a bold red cross on a white rectangle in the upper
  hoist-side corner

Trinidad and Tobago
  red with a white-edged black diagonal band from
  the upper hoist side to the lower fly side

Tunisia
  red with a white disk in the center bearing a red crescent
  nearly encircling a red five-pointed star; the crescent and star are
  traditional symbols of Islam

Turkey
  red with a vertical white crescent (the closed portion is
  toward the hoist side) and white five-pointed star centered just
  outside the crescent opening

Turkmenistan
  green field with a vertical red stripe near the hoist
  side, containing five tribal guls (designs used in producing
  carpets) stacked above two crossed olive branches; a white crescent
  moon representing Islam with five white stars representing the
  regions or welayats of Turkmenistan appear in the upper corner of
  the field just to the fly side of the red stripe

Turks and Caicos Islands
  blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper
  hoist-side quadrant and the colonial shield centered on the outer
  half of the flag; the shield is yellow and contains a conch shell,
  lobster, and cactus

Tuvalu
  light blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side
  quadrant; the outer half of the flag represents a map of the country
  with nine yellow five-pointed stars symbolizing the nine islands

Uganda
  six equal horizontal bands of black (top), yellow, red,
  black, yellow, and red; a white disk is superimposed at the center
  and depicts a red-crested crane (the national symbol) facing the
  hoist side

Ukraine
  two equal horizontal bands of azure (top) and golden yellow
  represent grain fields under a blue sky

United Arab Emirates
  three equal horizontal bands of green (top),
  white, and black with a wider vertical red band on the hoist side

United Kingdom
  blue field with the red cross of Saint George (patron
  saint of England) edged in white superimposed on the diagonal red
  cross of Saint Patrick (patron saint of Ireland), which is
  superimposed on the diagonal white cross of Saint Andrew (patron
  saint of Scotland); properly known as the Union Flag, but commonly
  called the Union Jack; the design and colors (especially the Blue
  Ensign) have been the basis for a number of other flags including
  other Commonwealth countries and their constituent states or
  provinces, and British overseas territories

United States
  13 equal horizontal stripes of red (top and bottom)
  alternating with white; there is a blue rectangle in the upper
  hoist-side corner bearing 50 small, white, five-pointed stars
  arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of six stars (top and
  bottom) alternating with rows of five stars; the 50 stars represent
  the 50 states, the 13 stripes represent the 13 original colonies;
  known as Old Glory; the design and colors have been the basis for a
  number of other flags, including Chile, Liberia, Malaysia, and
  Puerto Rico

United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
  the flag of the US is
  used

Uruguay
  nine equal horizontal stripes of white (top and bottom)
  alternating with blue; a white square in the upper hoist-side corner
  with a yellow sun bearing a human face known as the Sun of May with
  16 rays that alternate between triangular and wavy

Uzbekistan
  three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), white, and
  green separated by red fimbriations with a white crescent moon and
  12 white stars in the upper hoist-side quadrant

Vanuatu
  two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and green with a
  black isosceles triangle (based on the hoist side) all separated by
  a black-edged yellow stripe in the shape of a horizontal Y (the two
  points of the Y face the hoist side and enclose the triangle);
  centered in the triangle is a boar's tusk encircling two crossed
  namele leaves, all in yellow

Venezuela
  three equal horizontal bands of yellow (top), blue, and
  red with the coat of arms on the hoist side of the yellow band and
  an arc of eight white five-pointed stars centered in the blue band

Vietnam
  red field with a large yellow five-pointed star in the center

Virgin Islands
  white field with a modified US coat of arms in the
  center between the large blue initials V and I; the coat of arms
  shows a yellow eagle holding an olive branch in one talon and three
  arrows in the other with a superimposed shield of vertical red and
  white stripes below a blue panel

Wake Island
  the flag of the US is used

Wallis and Futuna
  unofficial, local flag has a red field with four
  white isosceles triangles in the middle, representing the three
  native kings of the islands and the French administrator; the apexes
  of the triangles are oriented inward and at right angles to each
  other; the flag of France, outlined in white on two sides, is in the
  upper hoist quadrant; the flag of France is the only official flag

Yemen
  three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and black;
  similar to the flag of Syria, which has two green stars in the white
  band, and of Iraq, which has an Arabic inscription centered in the
  white band; also similar to the flag of Egypt, which has a heraldic
  eagle centered in the white band

Zambia
  green field with a panel of three vertical bands of red
  (hoist side), black, and orange below a soaring orange eagle, on the
  outer edge of the flag

Zimbabwe
  seven equal horizontal bands of green, yellow, red, black,
  red, yellow, and green with a white isosceles triangle edged in
  black with its base on the hoist side; a yellow Zimbabwe bird
  representing the long history of the country is superimposed on a
  red five-pointed star in the center of the triangle, which
  symbolizes peace; green symbolizes agriculture, yellow - mineral
  wealth, red - blood shed to achieve independence, and black stands
  for the native people

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2085  Roadways (km)


Afghanistan
  total: 42,150 km
  paved: 12,350 km
  unpaved: 29,800 km (2006)

Albania
  total: 18,000 km
  paved: 7,020 km
  unpaved: 10,980 km (2002)

Algeria
  total: 108,302 km
  paved: 76,028 km (includes 645 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 32,274 km (2004)

American Samoa
  total: 221 km (2007)

Andorra
  total: 270 km

Angola
  total: 51,429 km
  paved: 5,349 km
  unpaved: 46,080 km (2001)

Anguilla
  total: 175 km
  paved: 82 km
  unpaved: 93 km (2004)

Antigua and Barbuda
  total: 1,165 km
  paved: 384 km
  unpaved: 781 km (2002)

Argentina
  total: 231,374 km
  paved: 69,412 km (includes 734 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 161,962 km (2004)

Armenia
  total: 7,700 km
  paved: 7,700 km (includes 1,561 km of expressways) (2006)

Australia
  total: 812,972 km
  paved: 341,448 km
  unpaved: 471,524 km (2004)

Austria
  total: 107,262 km
  paved: 107,262 km (includes 1,677 km of expressways) (2006)

Azerbaijan
  total: 59,141 km
  paved: 29,210 km
  unpaved: 29,931 km (2004)

Bahamas, The
  total: 2,717 km
  paved: 1,560 km
  unpaved: 1,133 km (2002)

Bahrain
  total: 3,498 km
  paved: 2,768 km
  unpaved: 730 km (2003)

Bangladesh
  total: 239,226 km
  paved: 22,726 km
  unpaved: 216,500 km (2003)

Barbados
  total: 1,600 km
  paved: 1,600 km (2004)

Belarus
  total: 94,797 km
  paved: 84,028 km
  unpaved: 10,769 km (2005)

Belgium
  total: 152,256 km
  paved: 119,079 km (includes 1,763 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 33,177 km (2006)

Belize
  total: 3,007 km
  paved: 575 km
  unpaved: 2,432 km (2006)

Benin
  total: 16,000 km
  paved: 1,400 km
  unpaved: 14,600 km (2006)

Bermuda
  total: 447 km
  paved: 447 km
  note: public roads - 225 km; private roads - 222 km (2007)

Bhutan
  total: 8,050 km
  paved: 4,991 km
  unpaved: 3,059 km (2003)

Bolivia
  total: 62,479 km
  paved: 3,749 km
  unpaved: 58,730 km (2004)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  total: 21,846 km
  paved: 11,425 km (4,714 km of interurban roads)
  unpaved: 10,421 km (2006)

Botswana
  total: 25,798 km
  paved: 8,410 km
  unpaved: 17,388 km (2005)

Brazil
  total: 1,751,868 km
  paved: 96,353 km
  unpaved: 1,655,515 km (2004)

British Indian Ocean Territory
  note: short section of paved road
  between port and airfield on Diego Garcia

British Virgin Islands
  total: 200 km
  paved: 200 km (2007)

Brunei
  total: 3,650 km
  paved: 2,819 km
  unpaved: 831 km (2005)

Bulgaria
  total: 40,231 km
  paved: 39,587 km (includes 331 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 644 km (2005)

Burkina Faso
  total: 92,495 km
  paved: 3,857 km
  unpaved: 88,638 km (2004)

Burma
  total: 27,000 km
  paved: 3,200 km
  unpaved: 23,800 km (2006)

Burundi
  total: 12,322 km
  paved: 1,286 km
  unpaved: 11,036 km (2004)

Cambodia
  total: 38,257 km
  paved: 2,406 km
  unpaved: 35,851 km (2004)

Cameroon
  total: 50,000 km
  paved: 5,000 km
  unpaved: 45,000 km (2004)

Canada
  total: 1,042,300 km
  paved: 415,600 km (includes 17,000 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 626,700 km (2006)

Cape Verde
  total: 1,350 km
  paved: 932 km
  unpaved: 418 km (2000)

Cayman Islands
  total: 785 km
  paved: 785 km (2007)

Central African Republic
  total: 24,307 km (2000)

Chad
  total: 33,400 km
  paved: 267 km
  unpaved: 33,133 km (2002)

Chile
  total: 80,505 km
  paved: 16,745 km (includes 2,414 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 63,760 km (2004)

China
  total: 1,930,544 km
  paved: 1,575,571 km (includes 41,005 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 354,973 km (2005)

Christmas Island
  total: 140 km
  paved: 30 km
  unpaved: 110 km (2007)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  total: 22 km
  paved: 10 km
  unpaved: 12 km (2006)

Colombia
  total: 164,257 km (2005)

Comoros
  total: 880 km
  paved: 673 km
  unpaved: 207 km (2002)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  total: 153,497 km
  paved: 2,794 km
  unpaved: 150,703 km (2004)

Congo, Republic of the
  total: 17,289 km
  paved: 864 km
  unpaved: 16,425 km (2004)

Cook Islands
  total: 320 km
  paved: 33 km
  unpaved: 287 km (2003)

Costa Rica
  total: 35,330 km
  paved: 8,621 km
  unpaved: 26,709 km (2004)

Cote d'Ivoire
  total: 80,000 km
  paved: 6,500 km
  unpaved: 73,500 km
  note: includes intercity and urban roads; another 20,000 km of dirt
  roads are in poor condition and 150,000 km of dirt roads are
  impassable (2006)

Croatia
  total: 28,788 km (includes 877 km of expressways) (2006)

Cuba
  total: 60,858 km
  paved: 29,820 km (includes 638 km of expressway)
  unpaved: 31,038 km (2000)

Cyprus
  total: 14,630 km (area under government control: 12,280 km;
  area administered by Turkish Cypriots: 2,350 km)
  paved: area under government control: 7,979 km (includes 257 km of
  expressways); area administered by Turkish Cypriots: 1,370 km
  unpaved: area under government control: 4,301 km; area administered
  by Turkish Cypriots: 980 km (2006)

Czech Republic
  total: 128,512 km
  paved: 128,512 km (includes 657 km of expressways) (2007)

Denmark
  total: 72,362 km
  paved: 72,362 km (includes 1,032 km of expressways) (2006)

Djibouti
  total: 3,065 km
  paved: 1,226 km
  unpaved: 1,839 km (2000)

Dominica
  total: 780 km
  paved: 393 km
  unpaved: 387 km (2000)

Dominican Republic
  total: 19,705 km
  paved: 9,872 km
  unpaved: 9,833 km (2002)

Ecuador
  total: 43,670 km
  paved: 6,472 km
  unpaved: 37,198 km (2006)

Egypt
  total: 92,370 km
  paved: 74,820 km
  unpaved: 17,550 km (2004)

El Salvador
  total: 10,886 km
  paved: 2,827 km (includes 327 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 8,059 km (2000)

Equatorial Guinea
  total: 2,880 km (2000)

Eritrea
  total: 4,010 km
  paved: 874 km
  unpaved: 3,136 km (2000)

Estonia
  total: 57,016 km
  paved: 12,926 km (includes 99 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 44,090 km (2005)

Ethiopia
  total: 36,469 km
  paved: 6,980 km
  unpaved: 29,489 km (2004)

European Union
  total: 5,454,446 km (2008)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  total: 440 km
  paved: 50 km
  unpaved: 390 km (2008)

Faroe Islands
  total: 463 km (2006)

Fiji
  total: 3,440 km
  paved: 1,692 km
  unpaved: 1,748 km (2000)

Finland
  total: 78,821 km
  paved: 50,854 km (includes 700 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 27,967 km (2008)

France
  total: 951,500 km
  paved: 951,500 km (metropolitan France; includes 10,950 km of
  expressways)
  note: there are another 5,100 km of roadways in overseas departments
  (2006)

French Polynesia
  total: 2,590 km
  paved: 1,735 km
  unpaved: 855 km (1999)

Gabon
  total: 9,170 km
  paved: 937 km
  unpaved: 8,233 km (2004)

Gambia, The
  total: 3,742 km
  paved: 723 km
  unpaved: 3,019 km (2004)

Gaza Strip
  note: see entry for West Bank

Georgia
  total: 20,329 km
  paved: 7,854 km (includes 13 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 12,475 km (2006)

Germany
  total: 644,480 km
  paved: 644,480 km (includes 12,400 km of expressways)
  note: includes local roads (2006)

Ghana
  total: 62,221 km
  paved: 9,955 km
  unpaved: 52,266 km (2006)

Gibraltar
  total: 29 km
  paved: 29 km (2007)

Greece
  total: 117,533 km
  paved: 107,895 km (includes 880 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 9,638 km (2005)

Greenland
  note: although there are short roads in towns, there are
  no roads between towns; inter-urban transport takes place either by
  sea or air (2005)

Grenada
  total: 1,127 km
  paved: 687 km
  unpaved: 440 km (2000)

Guam
  total: 1,045 km (2007)

Guatemala
  total: 14,095 km
  paved: 4,863 km (includes 75 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 9,232 km (2000)

Guinea
  total: 44,348 km
  paved: 4,342 km
  unpaved: 40,006 km (2003)

Guinea-Bissau
  total: 3,455 km
  paved: 965 km
  unpaved: 2,490 km (2002)

Guyana
  total: 7,970 km
  paved: 590 km
  unpaved: 7,380 km (2000)

Haiti
  total: 4,160 km
  paved: 1,011 km
  unpaved: 3,149 km (2000)

Honduras
  total: 13,600 km
  paved: 2,775 km
  unpaved: 10,825 km (2000)

Hong Kong
  total: 2,009 km
  paved: 2,009 km (2007)

Hungary
  total: 159,568 km
  paved: 70,050 km (30,874 km of interurban roads including 626 km of
  expressways)
  unpaved: 89,518 km (2005)

Iceland
  total: 13,058 km
  paved/oiled gravel: 4,397 km (does not include urban roads)
  unpaved: 8,661 km (2007)

India
  total: 3,316,452 km (includes 200 km of expressways) (2006)

Indonesia
  total: 391,009 km
  paved: 216,714 km
  unpaved: 174,295 km (2005)

Iran
  total: 172,927 km
  paved: 125,908 km (includes 1,429 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 47,019 km (2006)

Iraq
  total: 44,900 km
  paved: 37,851 km
  unpaved: 7,049 km (2002)

Ireland
  total: 96,602 km
  paved: 96,602 km (includes 200 km of expressways) (2003)

Isle of Man
  total: 500 km (2008)

Israel
  total: 17,870 km
  paved: 17,870 km (includes 146 km of expressways) (2007)

Italy
  total: 487,700 km
  paved: 487,700 km (includes 6,700 km of expressways) (2005)

Jamaica
  total: 21,552 km
  paved: 15,937 km (includes 33 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 5,615 km (2005)

Japan
  total: 1,196,999 km
  paved: 949,101 km (includes 7,383 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 247,898 km (2006)

Jersey
  total: 358 km (2002)

Jordan
  total: 7,694 km
  paved: 7,694 km (2006)

Kazakhstan
  total: 91,563 km
  paved: 83,717 km
  unpaved: 7,846 km (2006)

Kenya
  total: 63,265 km (interurban roads)
  paved: 8,933 km
  unpaved: 54,332 km
  note: there also are 100,000 km of rural roads and 14,500 km of
  urban roads for a national total of 177,765 km (2004)

Kiribati
  total: 670 km (2000)

Korea, North
  total: 25,554 km
  paved: 724 km
  unpaved: 24,830 km (2006)

Korea, South
  total: 102,062 km
  paved: 90,417 km (includes 3,103 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 11,645 km (2006)

Kosovo
  total: 1,924 km
  paved: 1,666 km
  unpaved: 258 km (2006)

Kuwait
  total: 5,749 km
  paved: 4,887 km
  unpaved: 862 km (2004)

Kyrgyzstan
  total: 18,500 km
  paved: 16,909 km (includes 140 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 1,591 km (2003)

Laos
  total: 29,811 km
  paved: 4,010 km
  unpaved: 25,801 km (2006)

Latvia
  total: 69,675 km
  paved: 69,675 km (2006)

Lebanon
  total: 6,970 km (includes 170 km of expressways) (2005)

Lesotho
  total: 7,091 km
  paved: 1,404 km
  unpaved: 5,687 km (2003)

Liberia
  total: 10,600 km
  paved: 657 km
  unpaved: 9,943 km (2000)

Libya
  total: 100,024 km
  paved: 57,214 km
  unpaved: 42,810 km (2003)

Liechtenstein
  total: 380 km
  paved: 380 km (2007)

Lithuania
  total: 79,984 km
  paved: 70,997 km (includes 309 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 8,987 km (2006)

Luxembourg
  total: 5,227 km
  paved: 5,227 km (includes 147 km of expressways) (2004)

Macau
  total: 384 km
  paved: 384 km (2006)

Macedonia
  total: 13,182 km (includes 208 km of expressways) (2002)

Madagascar
  total: 65,663 km
  paved: 7,617 km
  unpaved: 58,046 km (2003)

Malawi
  total: 15,451 km
  paved: 6,956 km
  unpaved: 8,495 km (2003)

Malaysia
  total: 98,721 km
  paved: 80,280 km (includes 1,821 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 18,441 km (2004)

Maldives
  total: 88 km
  paved roads: 88 km - 60 km in Male; 14 km on Addu Atolis; 14 km on
  Laamu
  note: village roads are mainly compacted coral (2006)

Mali
  total: 18,709 km
  paved: 3,368 km
  unpaved: 15,341 km (2004)

Malta
  total: 2,227 km
  paved: 2,014 km
  unpaved: 213 km (2005)

Marshall Islands
  total: 2,028 km (includes 75 km of expressways)
  (2007)

Mauritania
  total: 11,066 km
  paved: 2,966 km
  unpaved: 8,100 km (2006)

Mauritius
  total: 2,028 km
  paved: 2,028 km (includes 75 km of expressways) (2007)

Mexico
  total: 356,945 km
  paved: 178,473 km (includes 6,279 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 178,472 km (2006)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  total: 240 km
  paved: 42 km
  unpaved: 198 km (2000)

Moldova
  total: 12,666 km
  paved: 12,117 km
  unpaved: 549 km (2007)

Monaco
  total: 50 km
  paved: 50 km (2007)

Mongolia
  total: 49,250 km
  paved: 1,724 km
  unpaved: 47,526 km (2002)

Montenegro
  total: 7,368 km
  paved: 4,742 km
  unpaved: 2,626 km (2006)

Montserrat
  note: volcanic eruptions that began in 1995 destroyed
  most of the 227 km road system; a new road infrastructure has been
  built in the north end of the island (2008)

Morocco
  total: 57,625 km
  paved: 35,664 km (includes 639 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 21,961 km (2006)

Mozambique
  total: 30,400 km
  paved: 5,685 km
  unpaved: 24,715 km (2000)

Namibia
  total: 42,237 km
  paved: 5,406 km
  unpaved: 36,831 km (2002)

Nauru
  total: 24 km
  paved: 24 km (2002)

Nepal
  total: 17,280 km
  paved: 9,829 km
  unpaved: 7,451 km (2004)

Netherlands
  total: 134,981 km (includes 2,604 km of expressways)
  (2006)

Netherlands Antilles
  total: 845

New Caledonia
  total: 5,622 km (2006)

New Zealand
  total: 93,576 km
  paved: 61,564 km (includes 172 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 32,012 km (2006)

Nicaragua
  total: 19,036 km
  paved: 2,299 km
  unpaved: 16,737 km (2005)

Niger
  total: 18,550 km
  paved: 3,803 km
  unpaved: 14,747 km (2006)

Nigeria
  total: 193,200 km
  paved: 28,980 km
  unpaved: 164,220 km (2004)

Niue
  total: 120 km
  paved: 120 km (2008)

Norfolk Island
  total: 80 km
  paved: 53 km
  unpaved: 27 km (2008)

Northern Mariana Islands
  total: 536 km (2007)

Norway
  total: 92,946 km
  paved: 72,033 km (includes 664 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 20,913 km (2007)

Oman
  total: 42,300 km
  paved: 16,500 km (includes 550 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 25,800 km (2005)

Pakistan
  total: 259,758 km
  paved: 162,879 km (includes 711 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 96,879 km (2005)

Palau
  note: estimated to have 60 km of roads as of 1996

Panama
  total: 11,978 km
  paved: 4,300 km
  unpaved: 7,343 km (2002)

Papua New Guinea
  total: 19,600 km
  paved: 686 km
  unpaved: 18,914 km (2000)

Paraguay
  total: 29,500 km
  paved: 14,986 km
  unpaved: 14,514 km (2000)

Peru
  total: 78,829 km
  paved: 11,351 km (includes 276 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 67,478 km (2004)

Philippines
  total: 200,037 km
  paved: 19,804 km
  unpaved: 180,233 km (2003)

Poland
  total: 423,997 km
  paved: 295,356 km (includes 662 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 128,641 km (2006)

Portugal
  total: 82,900 km
  paved: 71,294 km (includes 2,300 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 11,606 km (2005)

Puerto Rico
  total: 26,186 km
  paved: 24,877 km (includes 427 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 1,309 km (2007)

Qatar
  total: 7,790 km (2006)

Romania
  total: 198,817 km
  paved: 60,043 km (includes 228 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 138,774 km (2004)

Russia
  total: 933,000 km
  paved: 754,984 km (includes 30,000 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 178,016 km
  note: includes public, local, and departmental roads (2006)

Rwanda
  total: 14,008 km
  paved: 2,662 km
  unpaved: 11,346 km (2004)

Saint Helena
  total: 198 km (Saint Helena 138 km, Ascension 40 km,
  Tristan da Cunha 20 km)
  paved: 168 km (Saint Helena 118 km, Ascension 40 km, Tristan da
  Cunha 10 km)
  unpaved: 30 km (Saint Helena 20 km, Ascension 0 km, Tristan da Cunha
  10 km) (2002)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  total: 320 km
  paved: 163 km
  unpaved: 220 km (2002)

Saint Lucia
  total: 1,210 km (2002)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  total: 117 km
  paved: 80 km
  unpaved: 37 km (2000)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  total: 829 km
  paved: 580 km
  unpaved: 249 km (2003)

Samoa
  total: 2,337 km
  paved: 332 km
  unpaved: 2,005 km (2001)

San Marino
  total: 292 km
  paved: 292 km (2006)

Sao Tome and Principe
  total: 320 km
  paved: 218 km
  unpaved: 102 km (2000)

Saudi Arabia
  total: 221,372 km
  paved: 47,529 km (includes 3,891 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 173,843 km (2006)

Senegal
  total: 13,576 km
  paved: 3,972 km (includes 7 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 9,604 km (2003)

Serbia
  total: 36,875 km
  paved: 31,392 km
  unpaved: 5,483 km
  note: roadways in Kosovo listed separately (2006)

Seychelles
  total: 458 km
  paved: 440 km
  unpaved: 18 km (2003)

Sierra Leone
  total: 11,300 km
  paved: 904 km
  unpaved: 10,396 km (2002)

Singapore
  total: 3,262 km
  paved: 3,262 km (includes 150 km of expressways) (2006)

Slovakia
  total: 43,761 km
  paved: 38,085 km (includes 316 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 5,676 km (2006)

Slovenia
  total: 38,562 km
  paved: 38,562 km (includes 579 km of expressways) (2006)

Solomon Islands
  total: 1,360 km
  paved: 33 km
  unpaved: 1,327 km
  note: includes 800 km of private plantation roads (2002)

Somalia
  total: 22,100 km
  paved: 2,608 km
  unpaved: 19,492 km (2000)

South Africa
  total: 362,099 km
  paved: 73,506 km (includes 239 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 288,593 km (2002)

Spain
  total: 681,224 km
  paved: 681,224 km (includes 13,872 km of expressways) (2006)

Sri Lanka
  total: 97,286 km
  paved: 78,802 km
  unpaved: 18,484 km (2003)

Sudan
  total: 11,900 km
  paved: 4,320 km
  unpaved: 7,580 km (2000)

Suriname
  total: 4,304 km
  paved: 1,130 km
  unpaved: 3,174 km (2003)

Swaziland
  total: 3,594 km
  paved: 1,078 km
  unpaved: 2,516 km (2002)

Sweden
  total: 425,300 km
  paved: 139,300 km (includes 1,740 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 286,000 km (2008)

Switzerland
  total: 71,298 km
  paved: 71,298 km (includes 1,758 of expressways) (2006)

Syria
  total: 97,401 km
  paved: 19,490 km (includes 1,103 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 77,911 km (2006)

Taiwan
  total: 40,262 km
  paved: 38,171 km (includes 976 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 2,091 km (2007)

Tajikistan
  total: 27,767 km (2000)

Tanzania
  total: 78,891 km
  paved: 6,808 km
  unpaved: 72,083 km (2003)

Thailand
  total: 180,053 km (includes 450 km of expressways) (2006)

Timor-Leste
  total: 6,040 km
  paved: 2,600 km
  unpaved: 3,440 km (2005)

Togo
  total: 7,520 km
  paved: 2,376 km
  unpaved: 5,144 km (2000)

Tonga
  total: 680 km
  paved: 184 km
  unpaved: 496 km (2000)

Trinidad and Tobago
  total: 8,320 km
  paved: 4,252 km
  unpaved: 4,068 km (2000)

Tunisia
  total: 19,232 km
  paved: 12,655 km (includes 262 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 6,577 km (2004)

Turkey
  total: 426,951 km (includes 1,987 km of expressways) (2006)

Turkmenistan
  total: 58,592 km
  paved: 47,577 km
  unpaved: 11,015 km (2002)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  total: 121 km
  paved: 24 km
  unpaved: 97 km (2003)

Tuvalu
  total: 8 km
  paved: 8 km (2002)

Uganda
  total: 70,746 km
  paved: 16,272 km
  unpaved: 54,474 km (2003)

Ukraine
  total: 169,422 km
  paved: 165,611 km (includes 15 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 3,811 km (2007)

United Arab Emirates
  total: 4,080 km
  paved: 4,080 km (includes 253 km of expressways) (2008)

United Kingdom
  total: 398,366 km
  paved: 398,366 km (includes 3,520 km of expressways) (2006)

United States
  total: 6,465,799 km
  paved: 4,209,835 km (includes 75,040 km of expressways)
  unpaved: 2,255,964 km (2007)

Uruguay
  total: 77,732 km
  paved: 7,743 km
  unpaved: 69,989 km (2004)

Uzbekistan
  total: 86,496 km
  paved: 75,511 km
  unpaved: 10,985 km (2000)

Vanuatu
  total: 1,070 km
  paved: 256 km
  unpaved: 814 km (1999)

Venezuela
  total: 96,155 km
  paved: 32,308 km
  unpaved: 63,847 km (2002)

Vietnam
  total: 222,179 km
  paved: 42,167 km
  unpaved: 180,012 km (2004)

Virgin Islands
  total: 1,257 km (2007)

West Bank
  total: 5,147 km
  paved: 5,147 km
  note: includes Gaza Strip (2006)

World
  total: 68,937,575 km (2008)

Yemen
  total: 71,300 km
  paved: 6,200 km
  unpaved: 65,100 km (2005)

Zambia
  total: 91,440 km
  paved: 20,117 km
  unpaved: 71,323 km (2001)

Zimbabwe
  total: 97,267 km
  paved: 18,481 km
  unpaved: 78,786 km (2002)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2086  Illicit drugs


Afghanistan
  world's largest producer of opium; poppy cultivation
  increased 17% to a near-record 202,000 hectares in 2007; good
  growing conditions pushed potential opium production to a record
  8,000 metric tons, up 42% from last year; if the entire opium crop
  were processed, 947 metric tons of heroin potentially could be
  produced; drug trade is a source of instability and the Taliban and
  other antigovernment groups participate in and profit from the drug
  trade; widespread corruption impedes counterdrug efforts; most of
  the heroin consumed in Europe and Eurasia is derived from Afghan
  opium; vulnerable to drug money laundering through informal
  financial networks; regional source of hashish

Albania
  increasingly active transshipment point for Southwest Asian
  opiates, hashish, and cannabis transiting the Balkan route and - to
  a lesser extent - cocaine from South America destined for Western
  Europe; limited opium and growing cannabis production; ethnic
  Albanian narcotrafficking organizations active and expanding in
  Europe; vulnerable to money laundering associated with regional
  trafficking in narcotics, arms, contraband, and illegal aliens

Angola
  used as a transshipment point for cocaine destined for
  Western Europe and other African states, particularly South Africa

Anguilla
  transshipment point for South American narcotics destined
  for the US and Europe

Antigua and Barbuda
  considered a minor transshipment point for
  narcotics bound for the US and Europe; more significant as an
  offshore financial center

Argentina
  a transshipment country for cocaine headed for Europe;
  some money-laundering activity, especially in the Tri-Border Area;
  law enforcement corruption; a source for precursor chemicals;
  increasing domestic consumption of drugs in urban centers,
  especially cocaine base and synthetic drugs

Armenia
  illicit cultivation of small amount of cannabis for domestic
  consumption; minor transit point for illicit drugs - mostly opium
  and hashish - moving from Southwest Asia to Russia and to a lesser
  extent the rest of Europe

Aruba
  transit point for US- and Europe-bound narcotics with some
  accompanying money-laundering activity; relatively high percentage
  of population consumes cocaine

Australia
  Tasmania is one of the world's major suppliers of licit
  opiate products; government maintains strict controls over areas of
  opium poppy cultivation and output of poppy straw concentrate; major
  consumer of cocaine and amphetamines

Austria
  transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin and South
  American cocaine destined for Western Europe; increasing consumption
  of European-produced synthetic drugs

Azerbaijan
  limited illicit cultivation of cannabis and opium poppy,
  mostly for CIS consumption; small government eradication program;
  transit point for Southwest Asian opiates bound for Russia and to a
  lesser extent the rest of Europe

Bahamas, The
  transshipment point for cocaine and marijuana bound for
  US and Europe; offshore financial center

Bangladesh
  transit country for illegal drugs produced in neighboring
  countries

Barbados
  one of many Caribbean transshipment points for narcotics
  bound for Europe and the US; offshore financial center

Belarus
  limited cultivation of opium poppy and cannabis, mostly for
  the domestic market; transshipment point for illicit drugs to and
  via Russia, and to the Baltics and Western Europe; a small and
  lightly regulated financial center; new anti-money-laundering
  legislation does not meet international standards; few
  investigations or prosecutions of money-laundering activities

Belgium
  growing producer of synthetic drugs and cannabis; transit
  point for US-bound ecstasy; source of precursor chemicals for South
  American cocaine processors; transshipment point for cocaine,
  heroin, hashish, and marijuana entering Western Europe; despite a
  strengthening of legislation, the country remains vulnerable to
  money laundering related to narcotics, automobiles, alcohol, and
  tobacco; significant domestic consumption of ecstasy

Belize
  transshipment point for cocaine; small-scale illicit producer
  of cannabis, primarily for local consumption; money-laundering
  activity related to narcotics trafficking and offshore sector

Benin
  transshipment point used by Nigerian traffickers for narcotics
  destined for Western Europe; vulnerable to money laundering due to
  poorly enforced financial regulations

Bolivia
  world's third-largest cultivator of coca (after Colombia and
  Peru) with an estimated 29,500 hectares under cultivation in 2007, a
  slight increase over 2006; third largest producer of cocaine,
  estimated at 120 metric tons of potential pure cocaine in 2007;
  transit country for Peruvian and Colombian cocaine destined for
  Brazil, Argentina, Chile, Paraguay, and Europe; cultivation
  generally increasing since 2000, despite eradication and alternative
  crop programs; weak border controls; some money-laundering activity
  related to narcotics trade, especially along the borders with Brazil
  and Paraguay; major cocaine consumption (2007)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  increasingly a transit point for heroin being
  trafficked to Western Europe; minor transit point for marijuana;
  remains highly vulnerable to money-laundering activity given a
  primarily cash-based and unregulated economy, weak law enforcement,
  and instances of corruption

Brazil
  second-largest consumer of cocaine in the world; illicit
  producer of cannabis; trace amounts of coca cultivation in the
  Amazon region, used for domestic consumption; government has a
  large-scale eradication program to control cannabis; important
  transshipment country for Bolivian, Colombian, and Peruvian cocaine
  headed for Europe; also used by traffickers as a way station for
  narcotics air transshipments between Peru and Colombia; upsurge in
  drug-related violence and weapons smuggling; important market for
  Colombian, Bolivian, and Peruvian cocaine; illicit narcotics
  proceeds earned in Brazil are often laundered through the financial
  system; significant illicit financial activity in the Tri-Border Area

British Virgin Islands
  transshipment point for South American
  narcotics destined for the US and Europe; large offshore financial
  center makes it vulnerable to money laundering

Brunei
  drug trafficking and illegally importing controlled
  substances are serious offenses in Brunei and carry a mandatory
  death penalty

Bulgaria
  major European transshipment point for Southwest Asian
  heroin and, to a lesser degree, South American cocaine for the
  European market; limited producer of precursor chemicals; some money
  laundering of drug-related proceeds through financial institutions

Burma
  remains world's second-largest producer of illicit opium with
  an estimated production in 2008 of 340 metric tons, an increase of
  26%, and cultivation in 2008 was 22,500 hectares, a 4% increase from
  2007; production in the United Wa State Army's areas of greatest
  control remains low; Shan state is the source of 94% of poppy
  cultivation; lack of government will to take on major
  narcotrafficking groups and lack of serious commitment against money
  laundering continues to hinder the overall antidrug effort; major
  source of methamphetamine and heroin for regional consumption;
  currently under Financial Action Task Force countermeasures due to
  continued failure to address its inadequate money-laundering
  controls (2008)

Cambodia
  narcotics-related corruption reportedly involving some in
  the government, military, and police; limited methamphetamine
  production; vulnerable to money laundering due to its cash-based
  economy and porous borders

Canada
  illicit producer of cannabis for the domestic drug market and
  export to US; use of hydroponics technology permits growers to plant
  large quantities of high-quality marijuana indoors; increasing
  ecstasy production, some of which is destined for the US; vulnerable
  to narcotics money laundering because of its mature financial
  services sector

Cape Verde
  used as a transshipment point for Latin American cocaine
  destined for Western Europe; the lack of a well-developed financial
  system limits the country's utility as a money-laundering center

Cayman Islands
  offshore financial center; vulnerable to drug
  transshipment to the US and Europe

Chile
  transshipment country for cocaine destined for Europe and the
  region; economic prosperity and increasing trade have made Chile
  more attractive to traffickers seeking to launder drug profits,
  especially through the Iquique Free Trade Zone, but a recent
  anti-money-laundering law improves controls; imported precursors
  passed on to Bolivia; domestic cocaine consumption is rising, making
  Chile a significant consumer of cocaine

China
  major transshipment point for heroin produced in the Golden
  Triangle region of Southeast Asia; growing domestic drug abuse
  problem; source country for chemical precursors, despite new
  regulations on its large chemical industry

Colombia
  illicit producer of coca, opium poppy, and cannabis;
  world's leading coca cultivator with 167,000 hectares in coca
  cultivation in 2007, a 6% increase over 2006, producing a potential
  of 535 metric tons of pure cocaine; the world's largest producer of
  coca derivatives; supplies cocaine to most of the US market and the
  great majority of other international drug markets; in 2007, aerial
  eradication dispensed herbicide to treat over 153,000 hectares with
  another 67,000 hectares manually eradicated, but aggressive
  replanting on the part of coca growers means Colombia remains a key
  producer; a significant portion of non-US narcotics proceeds are
  either laundered or invested in Colombia through the black market
  peso exchange; important supplier of heroin to the US market; opium
  poppy cultivation is estimated to have fallen 25% between 2006 and
  2007 with a corresponding estimated 27% decline in the yield of pure
  heroin to 1.9 metric tons; (2007)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  one of Africa's biggest producers
  of cannabis, but mostly for domestic consumption; while rampant
  corruption and inadequate supervision leaves the banking system
  vulnerable to money laundering, the lack of a well-developed
  financial system limits the country's utility as a money-laundering
  center

Costa Rica
  transshipment country for cocaine and heroin from South
  America; illicit production of cannabis in remote areas; domestic
  cocaine consumption, particularly crack cocaine, is rising;
  significant consumption of amphetamines

Cote d'Ivoire
  illicit producer of cannabis, mostly for local
  consumption; utility as a narcotic transshipment point to Europe
  reduced by ongoing political instability; while rampant corruption
  and inadequate supervision leave the banking system vulnerable to
  money laundering, the lack of a developed financial system limits
  the country's utility as a major money-laundering center

Croatia
  transit point along the Balkan route for Southwest Asian
  heroin to Western Europe; has been used as a transit point for
  maritime shipments of South American cocaine bound for Western Europe

Cuba
  territorial waters and air space serve as transshipment zone
  for US- and European-bound drugs; established the death penalty for
  certain drug-related crimes in 1999

Cyprus
  minor transit point for heroin and hashish via air routes and
  container traffic to Europe, especially from Lebanon and Turkey;
  some cocaine transits as well; despite a strengthening of
  anti-money-laundering legislation, remains vulnerable to money
  laundering; reporting of suspicious transactions in offshore sector
  remains weak

Czech Republic
  transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin and
  minor transit point for Latin American cocaine to Western Europe;
  producer of synthetic drugs for local and regional markets;
  susceptible to money laundering related to drug trafficking,
  organized crime; significant consumer of ecstasy

Dominica
  transshipment point for narcotics bound for the US and
  Europe; minor cannabis producer; anti-money-laundering enforcement
  is weak, making the country particularly vulnerable to money
  laundering

Dominican Republic
  transshipment point for South American drugs
  destined for the US and Europe; has become a transshipment point for
  ecstasy from the Netherlands and Belgium destined for US and Canada;
  substantial money laundering activity; Colombian narcotics
  traffickers favor the Dominican Republic for illicit financial
  transactions; significant amphetamine consumption

Ecuador
  significant transit country for cocaine originating in
  Colombia and Peru, with over half of the US-bound cocaine passing
  through Ecuadorian Pacific waters; importer of precursor chemicals
  used in production of illicit narcotics; attractive location for
  cash-placement by drug traffickers laundering money because of
  dollarization and weak anti-money-laundering regime; increased
  activity on the northern frontier by trafficking groups and
  Colombian insurgents

Egypt
  transit point for cannabis, heroin, and opium moving to
  Europe, Israel, and North Africa; transit stop for Nigerian drug
  couriers; concern as money laundering site due to lax enforcement of
  financial regulations

El Salvador
  transshipment point for cocaine; small amounts of
  marijuana produced for local consumption; significant use of cocaine

Estonia
  growing producer of synthetic drugs; increasingly important
  transshipment zone for cannabis, cocaine, opiates, and synthetic
  drugs since joining the European Union and the Schengen Accord;
  potential money laundering related to organized crime and drug
  trafficking is a concern, as is possible use of the gambling sector
  to launder funds; major use of opiates and ecstasy

Ethiopia
  transit hub for heroin originating in Southwest and
  Southeast Asia and destined for Europe, as well as cocaine destined
  for markets in southern Africa; cultivates qat (khat) for local use
  and regional export, principally to Djibouti and Somalia (legal in
  all three countries); the lack of a well-developed financial system
  limits the country's utility as a money laundering center

France
  metropolitan France: transshipment point for South American
  cocaine, Southwest Asian heroin, and European synthetics
  French Guiana: small amount of marijuana grown for local
  consumption; minor transshipment point to Europe
  Martinique: transshipment point for cocaine and marijuana bound for
  the US and Europe

Georgia
  limited cultivation of cannabis and opium poppy, mostly for
  domestic consumption; used as transshipment point for opiates via
  Central Asia to Western Europe and Russia

Germany
  source of precursor chemicals for South American cocaine
  processors; transshipment point for and consumer of Southwest Asian
  heroin, Latin American cocaine, and European-produced synthetic
  drugs; major financial center

Ghana
  illicit producer of cannabis for the international drug trade;
  major transit hub for Southwest and Southeast Asian heroin and, to a
  lesser extent, South American cocaine destined for Europe and the
  US; widespread crime and money laundering problem, but the lack of a
  well developed financial infrastructure limits the country's utility
  as a money laundering center; significant domestic cocaine and
  cannabis use

Greece
  a gateway to Europe for traffickers smuggling cannabis and
  heroin from the Middle East and Southwest Asia to the West and
  precursor chemicals to the East; some South American cocaine
  transits or is consumed in Greece; money laundering related to drug
  trafficking and organized crime

Grenada
  small-scale cannabis cultivation; lesser transshipment point
  for marijuana and cocaine to US

Guatemala
  major transit country for cocaine and heroin; in 2005,
  cultivated 100 hectares of opium poppy after reemerging as a
  potential source of opium in 2004; potential production of less than
  1 metric ton of pure heroin; marijuana cultivation for mostly
  domestic consumption; proximity to Mexico makes Guatemala a major
  staging area for drugs (particularly for cocaine); money laundering
  is a serious problem; corruption is a major problem

Guinea-Bissau
  increasingly important transit country for South
  American cocaine enroute to Europe; enabling environment for
  trafficker operations thanks to pervasive corruption;
  archipelago-like geography around the capital facilitates drug
  smuggling

Guyana
  transshipment point for narcotics from South America -
  primarily Venezuela - to Europe and the US; producer of cannabis;
  rising money laundering related to drug trafficking and human
  smuggling

Haiti
  Caribbean transshipment point for cocaine en route to the US
  and Europe; substantial bulk cash smuggling activity; Colombian
  narcotics traffickers favor Haiti for illicit financial
  transactions; pervasive corruption; significant consumer of cannabis

Honduras
  transshipment point for drugs and narcotics; illicit
  producer of cannabis, cultivated on small plots and used principally
  for local consumption; corruption is a major problem; some
  money-laundering activity

Hong Kong
  despite strenuous law enforcement efforts, faces difficult
  challenges in controlling transit of heroin and methamphetamine to
  regional and world markets; modern banking system provides conduit
  for money laundering; rising indigenous use of synthetic drugs,
  especially among young people

Hungary
  transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin and cannabis
  and for South American cocaine destined for Western Europe; limited
  producer of precursor chemicals, particularly for amphetamine and
  methamphetamine; efforts to counter money laundering, related to
  organized crime and drug trafficking, are improving, but remain
  vulnerable; significant consumer of ecstasy

India
  world's largest producer of licit opium for the pharmaceutical
  trade, but an undetermined quantity of opium is diverted to illicit
  international drug markets; transit point for illicit narcotics
  produced in neighboring countries and throughout Southwest Asia;
  illicit producer of methaqualone; vulnerable to narcotics money
  laundering through the hawala system; licit ketamine and precursor
  production

Indonesia
  illicit producer of cannabis largely for domestic use;
  producer of methamphetamine and ecstasy

Iran
  despite substantial interdiction efforts and considerable
  control measures along the border with Afghanistan, Iran remains one
  of the primary transshipment routes for Southwest Asian heroin to
  Europe; suffers one of the highest opiate addiction rates in the
  world, and has an increasing problem with synthetic drugs; lacks
  anti-money laundering laws; has reached out to neighboring countries
  to share counter-drug intelligence

Ireland
  transshipment point for and consumer of hashish from North
  Africa to the UK and Netherlands and of European-produced synthetic
  drugs; increasing consumption of South American cocaine; minor
  transshipment point for heroin and cocaine destined for Western
  Europe; despite recent legislation, narcotics-related money
  laundering - using bureaux de change, trusts, and shell companies
  involving the offshore financial community - remains a concern

Israel
  increasingly concerned about ecstasy, cocaine, and heroin
  abuse; drugs arrive in country from Lebanon and, increasingly, from
  Jordan; money-laundering center

Italy
  important gateway for and consumer of Latin American cocaine
  and Southwest Asian heroin entering the European market; money
  laundering by organized crime and from smuggling

Jamaica
  transshipment point for cocaine from South America to North
  America and Europe; illicit cultivation and consumption of cannabis;
  government has an active manual cannabis eradication program;
  corruption is a major concern; substantial money-laundering
  activity; Colombian narcotics traffickers favor Jamaica for illicit
  financial transactions

Kazakhstan
  significant illicit cultivation of cannabis for CIS
  markets, as well as limited cultivation of opium poppy and ephedra
  (for the drug ephedrine); limited government eradication of illicit
  crops; transit point for Southwest Asian narcotics bound for Russia
  and the rest of Europe; significant consumer of opiates

Kenya
  widespread harvesting of small plots of marijuana; transit
  country for South Asian heroin destined for Europe and North
  America; Indian methaqualone also transits on way to South Africa;
  significant potential for money-laundering activity given the
  country's status as a regional financial center; massive corruption,
  and relatively high levels of narcotics-associated activities

Korea, North
  for years, from the 1970s into the 2000s, citizens of
  the Democratic People's Republic of (North) Korea (DPRK), many of
  them diplomatic employees of the government, were apprehended abroad
  while trafficking in narcotics, including two in Turkey in December
  2004; police investigations in Taiwan and Japan in recent years have
  linked North Korea to large illicit shipments of heroin and
  methamphetamine, including an attempt by the North Korean merchant
  ship Pong Su to deliver 150 kg of heroin to Australia in April 2003

Kyrgyzstan
  limited illicit cultivation of cannabis and opium poppy
  for CIS markets; limited government eradication of illicit crops;
  transit point for Southwest Asian narcotics bound for Russia and the
  rest of Europe; major consumer of opiates

Laos
  estimated opium poppy cultivation in 2008 was 1,900 hectares,
  about a 73% increase from 2007; estimated potential opium production
  in 2008 more than tripled to 17 metric tons; unsubstantiated reports
  of domestic methamphetamine production; growing domestic
  methamphetamine problem (2007)

Latvia
  transshipment and destination point for cocaine, synthetic
  drugs, opiates, and cannabis from Southwest Asia, Western Europe,
  Latin America, and neighboring Balkan countries; despite improved
  legislation, vulnerable to money laundering due to nascent
  enforcement capabilities and comparatively weak regulation of
  offshore companies and the gaming industry; CIS organized crime
  (including counterfeiting, corruption, extortion, stolen cars, and
  prostitution) accounts for most laundered proceeds

Lebanon
  cannabis cultivation dramatically reduced to 2,500 hectares
  in 2002 despite continued significant cannabis consumption; opium
  poppy cultivation minimal; small amounts of Latin American cocaine
  and Southwest Asian heroin transit country on way to European
  markets and for Middle Eastern consumption; money laundering of drug
  proceeds fuels concern that extremists are benefiting from drug
  trafficking

Liberia
  transshipment point for Southeast and Southwest Asian heroin
  and South American cocaine for the European and US markets;
  corruption, criminal activity, arms-dealing, and diamond trade
  provide significant potential for money laundering, but the lack of
  well-developed financial system limits the country's utility as a
  major money-laundering center

Liechtenstein
  has strengthened money laundering controls, but money
  laundering remains a concern due to Liechtenstein's sophisticated
  offshore financial services sector

Lithuania
  transshipment and destination point for cannabis, cocaine,
  ecstasy, and opiates from Southwest Asia, Latin America, Western
  Europe, and neighboring Baltic countries; growing production of
  high-quality amphetamines, but limited production of cannabis,
  methamphetamines; susceptible to money laundering despite changes to
  banking legislation

Macau
  transshipment point for drugs going into mainland China;
  consumer of opiates and amphetamines

Macedonia
  major transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin and
  hashish; minor transit point for South American cocaine destined for
  Europe; although not a financial center and most criminal activity
  is thought to be domestic, money laundering is a problem due to a
  mostly cash-based economy and weak enforcement

Madagascar
  illicit producer of cannabis (cultivated and wild
  varieties) used mostly for domestic consumption; transshipment point
  for heroin

Malaysia
  drug trafficking prosecuted vigorously and carries severe
  penalties; heroin still primary drug of abuse, but synthetic drug
  demand remains strong; continued ecstasy and methamphetamine
  producer for domestic users and, to a lesser extent, the regional
  drug market

Malta
  minor transshipment point for hashish from North Africa to
  Western Europe

Mauritius
  consumer and transshipment point for heroin from South
  Asia; small amounts of cannabis produced and consumed locally;
  significant offshore financial industry creates potential for money
  laundering, but corruption levels are relatively low and the
  government appears generally to be committed to regulating its
  banking industry

Mexico
  major drug-producing nation; cultivation of opium poppy in
  2007 rose to 6,900 hectares yielding a potential production of 18
  metric tons of pure heroin, or 50 metric tons of "black tar" heroin,
  the dominant form of Mexican heroin in the western United States;
  marijuana cultivation increased to 8,900 hectares in 2007 and
  yielded a potential production of 15,800 metric tons; government
  conducts the largest independent illicit-crop eradication program in
  the world; continues as the primary transshipment country for
  US-bound cocaine from South America, with an estimated 90% of annual
  cocaine movements toward the US stopping in Mexico; major drug
  syndicates control the majority of drug trafficking throughout the
  country; producer and distributor of ecstasy; significant
  money-laundering center; major supplier of heroin and largest
  foreign supplier of marijuana and methamphetamine to the US market
  (2007)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  major consumer of cannabis

Moldova
  limited cultivation of opium poppy and cannabis, mostly for
  CIS consumption; transshipment point for illicit drugs from
  Southwest Asia via Central Asia to Russia, Western Europe, and
  possibly the US; widespread crime and underground economic activity

Montserrat
  transshipment point for South American narcotics destined
  for the US and Europe

Morocco
  one of the world's largest producers of illicit hashish;
  shipments of hashish mostly directed to Western Europe; transit
  point for cocaine from South America destined for Western Europe;
  significant consumer of cannabis

Mozambique
  southern African transit point for South Asian hashish
  and heroin, and South American cocaine probably destined for the
  European and South African markets; producer of cannabis (for local
  consumption) and methaqualone (for export to South Africa);
  corruption and poor regulatory capability makes the banking system
  vulnerable to money laundering, but the lack of a well-developed
  financial infrastructure limits the country's utility as a
  money-laundering center

Nepal
  illicit producer of cannabis and hashish for the domestic and
  international drug markets; transit point for opiates from Southeast
  Asia to the West

Netherlands
  major European producer of synthetic drugs, including
  ecstasy, and cannabis cultivator; important gateway for cocaine,
  heroin, and hashish entering Europe; major source of US-bound
  ecstasy; large financial sector vulnerable to money laundering;
  significant consumer of ecstasy

Netherlands Antilles
  transshipment point for South American drugs
  bound for the US and Europe; money-laundering center

New Zealand
  significant consumer of amphetamines

Nicaragua
  transshipment point for cocaine destined for the US and
  transshipment point for arms-for-drugs dealing

Nigeria
  a transit point for heroin and cocaine intended for
  European, East Asian, and North American markets; consumer of
  amphetamines; safe haven for Nigerian narcotraffickers operating
  worldwide; major money-laundering center; massive corruption and
  criminal activity; Nigeria has improved some anti-money-laundering
  controls, resulting in its removal from the Financial Action Task
  Force's (FATF's) Noncooperative Countries and Territories List in
  June 2006; Nigeria's anti-money-laundering regime continues to be
  monitored by FATF

Pakistan
  significant transit area for Afghan drugs, including
  heroin, opium, morphine, and hashish, bound for Iran, Western
  markets, the Gulf States, Africa, and Asia; financial crimes related
  to drug trafficking, terrorism, corruption, and smuggling remain
  problems; opium poppy cultivation estimated to be 2,300 hectares in
  2007 with 600 of those hectares eradicated; federal and provincial
  authorities continue to conduct anti-poppy campaigns that utilizes
  forced eradication, fines, and arrests

Panama
  major cocaine transshipment point and primary
  money-laundering center for narcotics revenue; money-laundering
  activity is especially heavy in the Colon Free Zone; offshore
  financial center; negligible signs of coca cultivation; monitoring
  of financial transactions is improving; official corruption remains
  a major problem

Papua New Guinea
  major consumer of cannabis

Paraguay
  major illicit producer of cannabis, most or all of which is
  consumed in Brazil, Argentina, and Chile; transshipment country for
  Andean cocaine headed for Brazil, other Southern Cone markets, and
  Europe; weak border controls, extensive corruption and
  money-laundering activity, especially in the Tri-Border Area; weak
  anti-money-laundering laws and enforcement

Peru
  until 1996 the world's largest coca leaf producer, Peru is now
  the world's second largest producer of coca leaf, though it lags far
  behind Colombia; cultivation of coca in Peru declined to 36,000
  hectares in 2007; second largest producer of cocaine, estimated at
  210 metric tons of potential pure cocaine in 2007; finished cocaine
  is shipped out from Pacific ports to the international drug market;
  increasing amounts of base and finished cocaine, however, are being
  moved to Brazil, Chile, Argentina, and Bolivia for use in the
  Southern Cone or transshipment to Europe and Africa; increasing
  domestic drug consumption

Philippines
  domestic methamphetamine production has been a growing
  problem in recent years despite government crackdowns; major
  consumer of amphetamines; longstanding marijuana producer mainly in
  rural areas where Manila's control is limited

Poland
  despite diligent counternarcotics measures and international
  information sharing on cross-border crimes, a major illicit producer
  of synthetic drugs for the international market; minor transshipment
  point for Southwest Asian heroin and Latin American cocaine to
  Western Europe

Portugal
  seizing record amounts of Latin American cocaine destined
  for Europe; a European gateway for Southwest Asian heroin;
  transshipment point for hashish from North Africa to Europe;
  consumer of Southwest Asian heroin

Romania
  major transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin
  transiting the Balkan route and small amounts of Latin American
  cocaine bound for Western Europe; although not a significant
  financial center, role as a narcotics conduit leaves it vulnerable
  to laundering, which occurs via the banking system, currency
  exchange houses, and casinos

Russia
  limited cultivation of illicit cannabis and opium poppy and
  producer of methamphetamine, mostly for domestic consumption;
  government has active illicit crop eradication program; used as
  transshipment point for Asian opiates, cannabis, and Latin American
  cocaine bound for growing domestic markets, to a lesser extent
  Western and Central Europe, and occasionally to the US; major source
  of heroin precursor chemicals; corruption and organized crime are
  key concerns; major consumer of opiates

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  transshipment point for South American drugs
  destined for the US and Europe; some money-laundering activity

Saint Lucia
  transit point for South American drugs destined for the
  US and Europe

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  transshipment point for South
  American drugs destined for the US and Europe; small-scale cannabis
  cultivation

Saudi Arabia
  death penalty for traffickers; improving
  anti-money-laundering legislation and enforcement

Senegal
  transshipment point for Southwest and Southeast Asian heroin
  and South American cocaine moving to Europe and North America;
  illicit cultivator of cannabis

Serbia
  transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin moving to
  Western Europe on the Balkan route; economy vulnerable to money
  laundering

Singapore
  drug abuse limited because of aggressive law enforcement
  efforts; as a transportation and financial services hub, Singapore
  is vulnerable, despite strict laws and enforcement, as a venue for
  money laundering

Slovakia
  transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin bound for
  Western Europe; producer of synthetic drugs for regional market;
  consumer of ecstasy

Slovenia
  minor transit point for cocaine and Southwest Asian heroin
  bound for Western Europe, and for precursor chemicals

South Africa
  transshipment center for heroin, hashish, and cocaine,
  as well as a major cultivator of marijuana in its own right; cocaine
  and heroin consumption on the rise; world's largest market for
  illicit methaqualone, usually imported illegally from India through
  various east African countries, but increasingly producing its own
  synthetic drugs for domestic consumption; attractive venue for money
  launderers given the increasing level of organized criminal and
  narcotics activity in the region and the size of the South African
  economy

Spain
  despite rigorous law enforcement efforts, North African, Latin
  American, Galician, and other European traffickers take advantage of
  Spain's long coastline to land large shipments of cocaine and
  hashish for distribution to the European market; consumer for Latin
  American cocaine and North African hashish; destination and minor
  transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin; money-laundering
  site for Colombian narcotics trafficking organizations and organized
  crime

Suriname
  growing transshipment point for South American drugs
  destined for Europe via the Netherlands and Brazil; transshipment
  point for arms-for-drugs dealing

Switzerland
  a major international financial center vulnerable to the
  layering and integration stages of money laundering; despite
  significant legislation and reporting requirements, secrecy rules
  persist and nonresidents are permitted to conduct business through
  offshore entities and various intermediaries; transit country for
  and consumer of South American cocaine, Southwest Asian heroin, and
  Western European synthetics; domestic cannabis cultivation and
  limited ecstasy production

Syria
  a transit point for opiates, hashish, and cocaine bound for
  regional and Western markets; weak anti-money-laundering controls
  and bank privatization may leave it vulnerable to money laundering

Taiwan
  regional transit point for heroin, methamphetamine, and
  precursor chemicals; transshipment point for drugs to Japan; major
  problem with domestic consumption of methamphetamine and heroin;
  rising problems with use of ketamine and club drugs

Tajikistan
  major transit country for Afghan narcotics bound for
  Russian and, to a lesser extent, Western European markets; limited
  illicit cultivation of opium poppy for domestic consumption;
  Tajikistan seizes roughly 80% of all drugs captured in Central Asia
  and stands third worldwide in seizures of opiates (heroin and raw
  opium); significant consumer of opiates

Tanzania
  growing role in transshipment of Southwest and Southeast
  Asian heroin and South American cocaine destined for South African,
  European, and US markets and of South Asian methaqualone bound for
  southern Africa; money laundering remains a problem

Thailand
  a minor producer of opium, heroin, and marijuana; transit
  point for illicit heroin en route to the international drug market
  from Burma and Laos; eradication efforts have reduced the area of
  cannabis cultivation and shifted some production to neighboring
  countries; opium poppy cultivation has been reduced by eradication
  efforts; also a drug money-laundering center; minor role in
  methamphetamine production for regional consumption; major consumer
  of methamphetamine since the 1990s despite a series of government
  crackdowns

Timor-Leste
  NA

Togo
  transit hub for Nigerian heroin and cocaine traffickers; money
  laundering not a significant problem

Trinidad and Tobago
  transshipment point for South American drugs
  destined for the US and Europe; producer of cannabis

Turkey
  key transit route for Southwest Asian heroin to Western
  Europe and, to a lesser extent, the US - via air, land, and sea
  routes; major Turkish and other international trafficking
  organizations operate out of Istanbul; laboratories to convert
  imported morphine base into heroin exist in remote regions of Turkey
  and near Istanbul; government maintains strict controls over areas
  of legal opium poppy cultivation and over output of poppy straw
  concentrate; lax enforcement of money-laundering controls

Turkmenistan
  transit country for Afghan narcotics bound for Russian
  and Western European markets; transit point for heroin precursor
  chemicals bound for Afghanistan

Turks and Caicos Islands
  transshipment point for South American
  narcotics destined for the US and Europe

Ukraine
  limited cultivation of cannabis and opium poppy, mostly for
  CIS consumption; some synthetic drug production for export to the
  West; limited government eradication program; used as transshipment
  point for opiates and other illicit drugs from Africa, Latin
  America, and Turkey to Europe and Russia; Ukraine has improved
  anti-money-laundering controls, resulting in its removal from the
  Financial Action Task Force's (FATF's) Noncooperative Countries and
  Territories List in February 2004; Ukraine's anti-money-laundering
  regime continues to be monitored by FATF

United Arab Emirates
  the UAE is a drug transshipment point for
  traffickers given its proximity to Southwest Asian drug-producing
  countries; the UAE's position as a major financial center makes it
  vulnerable to money laundering; anti-money-laundering controls
  improving, but informal banking remains unregulated

United Kingdom
  producer of limited amounts of synthetic drugs and
  synthetic precursor chemicals; major consumer of Southwest Asian
  heroin, Latin American cocaine, and synthetic drugs;
  money-laundering center

United States
  world's largest consumer of cocaine (shipped from
  Colombia through Mexico and the Caribbean), Colombian heroin, and
  Mexican heroin and marijuana; major consumer of ecstasy and Mexican
  methamphetamine; minor consumer of high-quality Southeast Asian
  heroin; illicit producer of cannabis, marijuana, depressants,
  stimulants, hallucinogens, and methamphetamine; money-laundering
  center

Uruguay
  small-scale transit country for drugs mainly bound for
  Europe, often through sea-borne containers; law enforcement
  corruption; money laundering because of strict banking secrecy laws;
  weak border control along Brazilian frontier; increasing consumption
  of cocaine base and synthetic drugs

Uzbekistan
  transit country for Afghan narcotics bound for Russian
  and, to a lesser extent, Western European markets; limited illicit
  cultivation of cannabis and small amounts of opium poppy for
  domestic consumption; poppy cultivation almost wiped out by
  government crop eradication program; transit point for heroin
  precursor chemicals bound for Afghanistan

Venezuela
  small-scale illicit producer of opium and coca for the
  processing of opiates and coca derivatives; however, large
  quantities of cocaine, heroin, and marijuana transit the country
  from Colombia bound for US and Europe; significant narcotics-related
  money-laundering activity, especially along the border with Colombia
  and on Margarita Island; active eradication program primarily
  targeting opium; increasing signs of drug-related activities by
  Colombian insurgents on border

Vietnam
  minor producer of opium poppy; probable minor transit point
  for Southeast Asian heroin; government continues to face domestic
  opium/heroin/methamphetamine addiction problems despite longstanding
  crackdowns

World
  cocaine: worldwide coca leaf cultivation in 2007 amounted to
  232,500 hectares; Colombia produced slightly more than two-thirds of
  the worldwide crop, followed by Peru and Bolivia; potential pure
  cocaine production decreased 7% to 865 metric tons in 2007; Colombia
  conducts aggressive coca eradication campaign, but both Peruvian and
  Bolivian Governments are hesitant to eradicate coca in key growing
  areas; 551 metric tons of export-quality cocaine (85% pure) is
  documented to have been seized or destroyed in 2005; US consumption
  of export quality cocaine is estimated to have been in excess of 380
  metric tons
  opiates: worldwide illicit opium poppy cultivation continued to
  increase in 2007, with a potential opium production of 8,400 metric
  tons, reaching the highest levels recorded since estimates began in
  mid-1980s; Afghanistan is world's primary opium producer, accounting
  for 95% of the global supply; Southeast Asia - responsible for 9% of
  global opium - saw marginal increases in production; Latin America
  produced 1% of global opium, but most was refined into heroin
  destined for the US market; if all potential opium was processed
  into pure heroin, the potential global production would be 1,000
  metric tons of heroin in 2007

Zambia
  transshipment point for moderate amounts of methaqualone,
  small amounts of heroin, and cocaine bound for southern Africa and
  possibly Europe; a poorly developed financial infrastructure coupled
  with a government commitment to combating money laundering make it
  an unattractive venue for money launderers; major consumer of
  cannabis

Zimbabwe
  transit point for cannabis and South Asian heroin, mandrax,
  and methamphetamines en route to South Africa

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2087  Imports


Afghanistan
  $3.823 billion (2006)

Albania
  $3.999 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Algeria
  $26.25 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

American Samoa
  $308.8 million (FY04 est.)

Andorra
  $1.879 billion (2005)

Angola
  $12.29 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Anguilla
  $143 million (2006)

Antigua and Barbuda
  $522.8 million (2007 est.)

Argentina
  $42.53 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Armenia
  $2.807 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Aruba
  $1.054 billion f.o.b. (2006)

Australia
  $160 billion (2007 est.)

Austria
  $160.3 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Azerbaijan
  $6.045 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Bahamas, The
  $2.401 billion (2006)

Bahrain
  $10.93 billion (2007 est.)

Bangladesh
  $16.67 billion (2007 est.)

Barbados
  $1.586 billion (2006)

Belarus
  $28.32 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Belgium
  $323.2 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Belize
  $642 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Benin
  $1.085 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Bermuda
  $1.162 billion (2006)

Bhutan
  $320 million c.i.f. (2006)

Bolivia
  $3.249 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  $9.947 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Botswana
  $3.403 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Brazil
  $120.6 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  $187 million (2002 est.)

Brunei
  $2 billion c.i.f. (2006)

Bulgaria
  $28.67 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Burkina Faso
  $1.296 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Burma
  $2.942 billion f.o.b.
  note: import figures are grossly underestimated due to the value of
  consumer goods, diesel fuel, and other products smuggled in from
  Thailand, China, Malaysia, and India (2007 est.)

Burundi
  $272 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Cambodia
  $5.424 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Cameroon
  $3.714 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Canada
  $386.4 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Cape Verde
  $743.6 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Cayman Islands
  $866.9 million (2004)

Central African Republic
  $237.3 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Chad
  $1.158 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Chile
  $43.99 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

China
  $904.6 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Christmas Island
  $NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  $NA

Colombia
  $31.17 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Comoros
  $143 million f.o.b. (2006)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  $2.263 billion f.o.b. (2006)

Congo, Republic of the
  $2.634 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Cook Islands
  $81.04 million (2005)

Costa Rica
  $12.26 billion (2007 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  $5.932 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Croatia
  $25.99 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Cuba
  $10.08 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Cyprus
  $7.84 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Czech Republic
  $116.6 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Denmark
  $102 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Djibouti
  $1.555 billion f.o.b. (2006)

Dominica
  $296 million f.o.b. (2006)

Dominican Republic
  $13.82 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Ecuador
  $12.76 billion (2007 est.)

Egypt
  $44.95 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

El Salvador
  $8.108 billion (2007 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  $3.083 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Eritrea
  $573 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Estonia
  $14.75 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Ethiopia
  $5.165 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

European Union
  $1.466 trillion; note - external imports, excluding
  intra-EU trade (2005)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  $90 million (2004 est.)

Faroe Islands
  $751 million c.i.f. (2006)

Fiji
  $3.12 billion c.i.f. (2006)

Finland
  $78.05 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

France
  $600.9 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

French Polynesia
  $1.706 billion f.o.b. (2005 est.)

Gabon
  $2.107 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Gambia, The
  $271 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Gaza Strip
  $2.44 billion c.i.f.; (includes West Bank) (2005)

Georgia
  $4.977 billion (2007 est.)

Germany
  $1.075 trillion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Ghana
  $8.053 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Gibraltar
  $2.967 billion c.i.f. (2004 est.)

Greece
  $80.79 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Greenland
  $712 million c.i.f. (2006)

Grenada
  $343 million (2006)

Guam
  $701 million f.o.b. (2004 est.)

Guatemala
  $12.62 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Guernsey
  $NA

Guinea
  $1.202 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  $200 million f.o.b. (2006)

Guyana
  $1.006 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Haiti
  $1.734 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Honduras
  $8.556 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Hong Kong
  $365.6 billion (2007 est.)

Hungary
  $86.88 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Iceland
  $6.181 billion (2007 est.)

India
  $230.5 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Indonesia
  $84.93 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Iran
  $53.88 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Iraq
  $25.67 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Ireland
  $84.76 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Isle of Man
  $NA

Israel
  $55.79 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Italy
  $498.1 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Jamaica
  $5.784 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Japan
  $573.3 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Jersey
  $NA

Jordan
  $12.02 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Kazakhstan
  $33.21 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Kenya
  $8.54 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Kiribati
  $62 million c.i.f. (2004 est.)

Korea, North
  $2.879 billion c.i.f. (2006)

Korea, South
  $349.6 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Kosovo
  $NA

Kuwait
  $20.64 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  $2.636 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Laos
  $1.378 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Latvia
  $14.82 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Lebanon
  $11.93 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Lesotho
  $1.536 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Liberia
  $7.143 billion f.o.b. (2006)

Libya
  $14.43 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Liechtenstein
  $917.3 million (1996)

Lithuania
  $22.8 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Luxembourg
  $23.13 billion c.i.f. (2007 est.)

Macau
  $4.559 billion c.i.f. (2006)

Macedonia
  $4.977 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Madagascar
  $1.918 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Malawi
  $866 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Malaysia
  $139.1 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Maldives
  $930 million f.o.b. (2006)

Mali
  $2.358 billion f.o.b. (2006)

Malta
  $4.541 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Marshall Islands
  $54.7 million f.o.b. (2000)

Mauritania
  $1.475 billion f.o.b. (2006)

Mauritius
  $3.656 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Mayotte
  $341 million f.o.b.; note - excludes petroleum imports (2005)

Mexico
  $281.9 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  $132.7 million f.o.b. (2004)

Moldova
  $3.677 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Monaco
  $916.1 million
  note: full customs integration with France, which collects and
  rebates Monegasque trade duties; also participates in EU market
  system through customs union with France (2005)

Mongolia
  $2.117 billion c.i.f. (2007)

Montenegro
  $601.7 million (2003)

Montserrat
  $17 million (2001)

Morocco
  $28.5 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Mozambique
  $2.811 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Namibia
  $3.091 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Nauru
  $20 million c.i.f. (2004 est.)

Nepal
  $2.398 billion f.o.b. (2006)

Netherlands
  $406.3 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  $15.74 billion f.o.b. (2006)

New Caledonia
  $1.998 billion f.o.b. (2006)

New Zealand
  $29.06 billion (2007 est.)

Nicaragua
  $4.078 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Niger
  $800 million f.o.b. (2006)

Nigeria
  $38.5 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Niue
  $9.038 million (2004)

Norfolk Island
  $17.9 million c.i.f. (FY91/92)

Northern Mariana Islands
  $214.4 million (2001)

Norway
  $77.24 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Oman
  $11 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Pakistan
  $28.76 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Palau
  $107.3 million f.o.b. (2004 est.)

Panama
  $12.62 billion f.o.b.
  note: includes the Colon Free Zone (2007 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  $2.629 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Paraguay
  $6.094 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Peru
  $19.6 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Philippines
  $57.56 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Pitcairn Islands
  $NA

Poland
  $160.2 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Portugal
  $75.3 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Puerto Rico
  $29.1 billion c.i.f. (2001)

Qatar
  $19.86 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Romania
  $64.54 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Russia
  $223.4 billion (2007 est.)

Rwanda
  $637 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Saint Helena
  $45 million c.i.f. (2004 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  $383 million (2006)

Saint Lucia
  $791 million (2006)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  $68.2 million f.o.b. (2005 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  $578 million (2006)

Samoa
  $324 million f.o.b. (2006)

San Marino
  $2.035 billion (2004)

Sao Tome and Principe
  $66 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  $82.64 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Senegal
  $3.731 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Serbia
  $18.35 billion (2007 est.)

Seychelles
  $823 million f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Sierra Leone
  $560 million f.o.b. (2006)

Singapore
  $252 billion (2007 est.)

Slovakia
  $58.4 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Slovenia
  $29.39 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Solomon Islands
  $256 million f.o.b. (2006)

Somalia
  $798 million f.o.b. (2006)

South Africa
  $81.89 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Spain
  $380.2 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Sri Lanka
  $10.36 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Sudan
  $7.722 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Suriname
  $1.297 billion f.o.b. (2006 est.)

Svalbard
  $NA

Swaziland
  $1.914 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Sweden
  $151.4 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Switzerland
  $187.1 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Syria
  $10.5 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Taiwan
  $215.1 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Tajikistan
  $2.762 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Tanzania
  $4.861 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Thailand
  $125.2 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Timor-Leste
  $202 million (2004 est.)

Togo
  $1.201 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Tokelau
  $969,200 c.i.f. (2002)

Tonga
  $139 million f.o.b. (2006)

Trinidad and Tobago
  $7.67 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Tunisia
  $18.02 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Turkey
  $162 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Turkmenistan
  $4.516 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  $175.6 million (2000)

Tuvalu
  $12.91 million c.i.f. (2005)

Uganda
  $2.983 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Ukraine
  $60.41 billion (2007 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  $116.6 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

United Kingdom
  $621.4 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

United States
  $1.968 trillion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Uruguay
  $5.554 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Uzbekistan
  $4.48 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Vanuatu
  $156 million c.i.f. (2006)

Venezuela
  $45.46 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Vietnam
  $58.92 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Virgin Islands
  $4.609 billion (2001)

Wallis and Futuna
  $61.17 million f.o.b. (2004)

West Bank
  $2.44 billion c.i.f.; (includes Gaza Strip) (2005)

Western Sahara
  $NA

World
  $13.74 trillion f.o.b. (2006 est.)

Yemen
  $6.735 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Zambia
  $3.611 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

Zimbabwe
  $2.183 billion f.o.b. (2007 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2088  Independence


Afghanistan
  19 August 1919 (from UK control over Afghan foreign
  affairs)

Albania
  28 November 1912 (from the Ottoman Empire)

Algeria
  5 July 1962 (from France)

American Samoa
  none (territory of the US)

Andorra
  1278 (formed under the joint suzerainty of the French Count
  of Foix and the Spanish Bishop of Urgel)

Angola
  11 November 1975 (from Portugal)

Anguilla
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Antigua and Barbuda
  1 November 1981 (from UK)

Argentina
  9 July 1816 (from Spain)

Armenia
  21 September 1991 (from Soviet Union)

Aruba
  none (part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands)

Australia
  1 January 1901 (federation of UK colonies)

Austria
  976 (Margravate of Austria established); 17 September 1156
  (Duchy of Austria founded); 11 August 1804 (Austrian Empire
  proclaimed); 12 November 1918 (republic proclaimed)

Azerbaijan
  30 August 1991 (from Soviet Union)

Bahamas, The
  10 July 1973 (from UK)

Bahrain
  15 August 1971 (from UK)

Bangladesh
  16 December 1971 (from West Pakistan); note - 26 March
  1971 is the date of independence from West Pakistan, 16 December
  1971 is known as Victory Day and commemorates the official creation
  of the state of Bangladesh

Barbados
  30 November 1966 (from UK)

Belarus
  25 August 1991 (from Soviet Union)

Belgium
  4 October 1830 (a provisional government declared
  independence from the Netherlands); 21 July 1831 (King LEOPOLD I
  ascended to the throne)

Belize
  21 September 1981 (from UK)

Benin
  1 August 1960 (from France)

Bermuda
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Bhutan
  1907 (became a unified kingdom under its first hereditary
  king)

Bolivia
  6 August 1825 (from Spain)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  1 March 1992 (from Yugoslavia; referendum for
  independence completed 1 March 1992; independence declared 3 March
  1992)

Botswana
  30 September 1966 (from UK)

Brazil
  7 September 1822 (from Portugal)

British Virgin Islands
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Brunei
  1 January 1984 (from UK)

Bulgaria
  3 March 1878 (as an autonomous principality within the
  Ottoman Empire); 22 September 1908 (complete independence from the
  Ottoman Empire)

Burkina Faso
  5 August 1960 (from France)

Burma
  4 January 1948 (from UK)

Burundi
  1 July 1962 (from UN trusteeship under Belgian
  administration)

Cambodia
  9 November 1953 (from France)

Cameroon
  1 January 1960 (from French-administered UN trusteeship)

Canada
  1 July 1867 (union of British North American colonies); 11
  December 1931 (recognized by UK)

Cape Verde
  5 July 1975 (from Portugal)

Cayman Islands
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Central African Republic
  13 August 1960 (from France)

Chad
  11 August 1960 (from France)

Chile
  18 September 1810 (from Spain)

China
  221 BC (unification under the Qin or Ch'in Dynasty); 1 January
  1912 (Manchu Dynasty replaced by a Republic); 1 October 1949
  (People's Republic established)

Christmas Island
  none (territory of Australia)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  none (territory of Australia)

Colombia
  20 July 1810 (from Spain)

Comoros
  6 July 1975 (from France)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  30 June 1960 (from Belgium)

Congo, Republic of the
  15 August 1960 (from France)

Cook Islands
  none (became self-governing in free association with
  New Zealand on 4 August 1965 and has the right at any time to move
  to full independence by unilateral action)

Costa Rica
  15 September 1821 (from Spain)

Cote d'Ivoire
  7 August 1960 (from France)

Croatia
  25 June 1991 (from Yugoslavia)

Cuba
  20 May 1902 (from Spain 10 December 1898; administered by the
  US from 1898 to 1902); not acknowledged by the Cuban Government as a
  day of independence

Cyprus
  16 August 1960 (from UK); note - Turkish Cypriots proclaimed
  self-rule on 13 February 1975 and independence in 1983, but these
  proclamations are only recognized by Turkey

Czech Republic
  1 January 1993 (Czechoslovakia split into the Czech
  Republic and Slovakia)

Denmark
  first organized as a unified state in 10th century; in 1849
  became a constitutional monarchy

Djibouti
  27 June 1977 (from France)

Dominica
  3 November 1978 (from UK)

Dominican Republic
  27 February 1844 (from Haiti)

Ecuador
  24 May 1822 (from Spain)

Egypt
  28 February 1922 (from UK)

El Salvador
  15 September 1821 (from Spain)

Equatorial Guinea
  12 October 1968 (from Spain)

Eritrea
  24 May 1993 (from Ethiopia)

Estonia
  20 August 1991 (from Soviet Union)

Ethiopia
  oldest independent country in Africa and one of the oldest
  in the world - at least 2,000 years

European Union
  7 February 1992 (Maastricht Treaty signed
  establishing the EU); 1 November 1993 (Maastricht Treaty entered
  into force)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  none (overseas territory of the
  UK; also claimed by Argentina)

Faroe Islands
  none (part of the Kingdom of Denmark; self-governing
  overseas administrative division of Denmark)

Fiji
  10 October 1970 (from UK)

Finland
  6 December 1917 (from Russia)

France
  486 (Frankish tribes unified); 843 (Western Francia
  established from the division of the Carolingian Empire)

French Polynesia
  none (overseas lands of France)

Gabon
  17 August 1960 (from France)

Gambia, The
  18 February 1965 (from UK)

Georgia
  9 April 1991 (from Soviet Union)

Germany
  18 January 1871 (German Empire unification); divided into
  four zones of occupation (UK, US, USSR, and later, France) in 1945
  following World War II; Federal Republic of Germany (FRG or West
  Germany) proclaimed 23 May 1949 and included the former UK, US, and
  French zones; German Democratic Republic (GDR or East Germany)
  proclaimed 7 October 1949 and included the former USSR zone;
  unification of West Germany and East Germany took place 3 October
  1990; all four powers formally relinquished rights 15 March 1991

Ghana
  6 March 1957 (from UK)

Gibraltar
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Greece
  1829 (from the Ottoman Empire)

Greenland
  none (extensive self-rule as part of the Kingdom of
  Denmark; foreign affairs is the responsibility of Denmark, but
  Greenland actively participates in international agreements relating
  to Greenland)

Grenada
  7 February 1974 (from UK)

Guam
  none (territory of the US)

Guatemala
  15 September 1821 (from Spain)

Guernsey
  none (British crown dependency)

Guinea
  2 October 1958 (from France)

Guinea-Bissau
  24 September 1973 (declared); 10 September 1974 (from
  Portugal)

Guyana
  26 May 1966 (from UK)

Haiti
  1 January 1804 (from France)

Holy See (Vatican City)
  11 February 1929 (from Italy); note - the
  three treaties signed with Italy on 11 February 1929 acknowledged,
  among other things, the full sovereignty of the Vatican and
  established its territorial extent; however, the origin of the Papal
  States, which over the years have varied considerably in extent, may
  be traced back to the 8th century

Honduras
  15 September 1821 (from Spain)

Hong Kong
  none (special administrative region of China)

Hungary
  25 December 1000 (crowning of King STEPHEN I, traditional
  founding date)

Iceland
  1 December 1918 (became a sovereign state under the Danish
  Crown); 17 June 1944 (from Denmark)

India
  15 August 1947 (from UK)

Indonesia
  17 August 1945 (declared)
  note: recognized by the Netherlands on 27 December 1949; in August
  2005, the Netherlands announced it recognized de facto Indonesian
  independence on 17 August 1945

Iran
  1 April 1979 (Islamic Republic of Iran proclaimed)

Iraq
  3 October 1932 (from League of Nations mandate under British
  administration); note - on 28 June 2004 the Coalition Provisional
  Authority transferred sovereignty to the Iraqi-controlled Government

Ireland
  6 December 1921 (from UK by treaty)

Isle of Man
  none (British crown dependency)

Israel
  14 May 1948 (from League of Nations mandate under British
  administration)

Italy
  17 March 1861 (Kingdom of Italy proclaimed; Italy was not
  finally unified until 1870)

Jamaica
  6 August 1962 (from UK)

Japan
  660 B.C. (traditional founding by Emperor JIMMU)

Jersey
  none (British crown dependency)

Jordan
  25 May 1946 (from League of Nations mandate under British
  administration)

Kazakhstan
  16 December 1991 (from Soviet Union)

Kenya
  12 December 1963 (from UK)

Kiribati
  12 July 1979 (from UK)

Korea, North
  15 August 1945 (from Japan)

Korea, South
  15 August 1945 (from Japan)

Kosovo
  17 February 2008 (from Serbia)

Kuwait
  19 June 1961 (from UK)

Kyrgyzstan
  31 August 1991 (from Soviet Union)

Laos
  19 July 1949 (from France)

Latvia
  18 November 1918 (from Soviet Russia)

Lebanon
  22 November 1943 (from League of Nations mandate under
  French administration)

Lesotho
  4 October 1966 (from UK)

Liberia
  26 July 1847

Libya
  24 December 1951 (from UN trusteeship)

Liechtenstein
  23 January 1719 (Principality of Liechtenstein
  established); 12 July 1806 (independence from the Holy Roman Empire)

Lithuania
  11 March 1990 (declared); 6 September 1991 (recognized by
  Soviet Union)

Luxembourg
  1839 (from the Netherlands)

Macau
  none (special administrative region of China)

Macedonia
  8 September 1991 (referendum by registered voters endorsed
  independence from Yugoslavia)

Madagascar
  26 June 1960 (from France)

Malawi
  6 July 1964 (from UK)

Malaysia
  31 August 1957 (from UK)

Maldives
  26 July 1965 (from UK)

Mali
  22 September 1960 (from France)

Malta
  21 September 1964 (from UK)

Marshall Islands
  21 October 1986 (from the US-administered UN
  trusteeship)

Mauritania
  28 November 1960 (from France)

Mauritius
  12 March 1968 (from UK)

Mayotte
  none (territorial overseas collectivity of France)

Mexico
  16 September 1810 (declared); 27 September 1821 (recognized
  by Spain)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  3 November 1986 (from the
  US-administered UN trusteeship)

Moldova
  27 August 1991 (from Soviet Union)

Monaco
  1419 (beginning of rule by the House of Grimaldi)

Mongolia
  11 July 1921 (from China)

Montenegro
  3 June 2006 (from Serbia and Montenegro)

Montserrat
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Morocco
  2 March 1956 (from France)

Mozambique
  25 June 1975 (from Portugal)

Namibia
  21 March 1990 (from South African mandate)

Nauru
  31 January 1968 (from the Australia-, NZ-, and UK-administered
  UN trusteeship)

Nepal
  1768 (unified by Prithvi Narayan SHAH)

Netherlands
  23 January 1579 (the northern provinces of the Low
  Countries conclude the Union of Utrecht breaking with Spain; on 26
  July 1581 they formally declared their independence with an Act of
  Abjuration; however, it was not until 30 January 1648 and the Peace
  of Westphalia that Spain recognized this independence)

Netherlands Antilles
  none (part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands)

New Caledonia
  none (overseas territory of France); note - a
  referendum on independence was held in 1998 but did not pass; a new
  referendum is scheduled for 2014

New Zealand
  26 September 1907 (from UK)

Nicaragua
  15 September 1821 (from Spain)

Niger
  3 August 1960 (from France)

Nigeria
  1 October 1960 (from UK)

Niue
  on 19 October 1974, Niue became a self-governing parliamentary
  government in free association with New Zealand

Norfolk Island
  none (territory of Australia)

Northern Mariana Islands
  none (commonwealth in political union with
  the US)

Norway
  7 June 1905 (Norway declared the union with Sweden
  dissolved); 26 October 1905 (Sweden agreed to the repeal of the
  union)

Oman
  1650 (expulsion of the Portuguese)

Pakistan
  14 August 1947 (from British India)

Palau
  1 October 1994 (from the US-administered UN trusteeship)

Panama
  3 November 1903 (from Colombia; became independent from Spain
  28 November 1821)

Papua New Guinea
  16 September 1975 (from the Australian-administered
  UN trusteeship)

Paraguay
  14 May 1811 (from Spain)

Peru
  28 July 1821 (from Spain)

Philippines
  12 June 1898 (independence proclaimed from Spain); 4
  July 1946 (from the US)

Pitcairn Islands
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Poland
  11 November 1918 (republic proclaimed)

Portugal
  1143 (Kingdom of Portugal recognized); 5 October 1910
  (republic proclaimed)

Puerto Rico
  none (territory of the US with commonwealth status)

Qatar
  3 September 1971 (from UK)

Romania
  9 May 1877 (independence proclaimed from the Ottoman Empire;
  independence recognized 13 July 1878 by the Treaty of Berlin); 26
  March 1881 (kingdom proclaimed); 30 December 1947 (republic
  proclaimed)

Russia
  24 August 1991 (from Soviet Union)

Rwanda
  1 July 1962 (from Belgium-administered UN trusteeship)

Saint Barthelemy
  none (overseas collectivity of France)

Saint Helena
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  19 September 1983 (from UK)

Saint Lucia
  22 February 1979 (from UK)

Saint Martin
  none (overseas collectivity of France)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  none (territorial collectivity of France;
  has been under French control since 1763)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  27 October 1979 (from UK)

Samoa
  1 January 1962 (from New Zealand-administered UN trusteeship)

San Marino
  3 September AD 301

Sao Tome and Principe
  12 July 1975 (from Portugal)

Saudi Arabia
  23 September 1932 (unification of the kingdom)

Senegal
  4 April 1960 (from France); note - complete independence
  achieved upon dissolution of federation with Mali on 20 August 1960

Serbia
  5 June 2006 (from Serbia and Montenegro)

Seychelles
  29 June 1976 (from UK)

Sierra Leone
  27 April 1961 (from UK)

Singapore
  9 August 1965 (from Malaysian Federation)

Slovakia
  1 January 1993 (Czechoslovakia split into the Czech
  Republic and Slovakia)

Slovenia
  25 June 1991 (from Yugoslavia)

Solomon Islands
  7 July 1978 (from UK)

Somalia
  1 July 1960 (from a merger of British Somaliland, which
  became independent from the UK on 26 June 1960, and Italian
  Somaliland, which became independent from the Italian-administered
  UN trusteeship on 1 July 1960, to form the Somali Republic)

South Africa
  31 May 1910 (Union of South Africa formed from four
  British colonies: Cape Colony, Natal, Transvaal, and Orange Free
  State); 31 May 1961 (republic declared) 27 April 1994 (majority rule)

Spain
  the Iberian peninsula was characterized by a variety of
  independent kingdoms prior to the Muslim occupation that began in
  the early 8th century A.D. and lasted nearly seven centuries; the
  small Christian redoubts of the north began the reconquest almost
  immediately, culminating in the seizure of Granada in 1492; this
  event completed the unification of several kingdoms and is
  traditionally considered the forging of present-day Spain

Sri Lanka
  4 February 1948 (from UK)

Sudan
  1 January 1956 (from Egypt and UK)

Suriname
  25 November 1975 (from the Netherlands)

Svalbard
  none (territory of Norway)

Swaziland
  6 September 1968 (from UK)

Sweden
  6 June 1523 (Gustav VASA elected king)

Switzerland
  1 August 1291 (founding of the Swiss Confederation)

Syria
  17 April 1946 (from League of Nations mandate under French
  administration)

Tajikistan
  9 September 1991 (from Soviet Union)

Tanzania
  26 April 1964; Tanganyika became independent 9 December
  1961 (from UK-administered UN trusteeship); Zanzibar became
  independent 19 December 1963 (from UK); Tanganyika united with
  Zanzibar 26 April 1964 to form the United Republic of Tanganyika and
  Zanzibar; renamed United Republic of Tanzania 29 October 1964

Thailand
  1238 (traditional founding date; never colonized)

Timor-Leste
  28 November 1975 (independence proclaimed from
  Portugal); note - 20 May 2002 is the official date of international
  recognition of Timor-Leste's independence from Indonesia

Togo
  27 April 1960 (from French-administered UN trusteeship)

Tokelau
  none (territory of New Zealand)

Tonga
  4 June 1970 (from UK protectorate)

Trinidad and Tobago
  31 August 1962 (from UK)

Tunisia
  20 March 1956 (from France)

Turkey
  29 October 1923 (successor state to the Ottoman Empire)

Turkmenistan
  27 October 1991 (from Soviet Union)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Tuvalu
  1 October 1978 (from UK)

Uganda
  9 October 1962 (from UK)

Ukraine
  24 August 1991 (from Soviet Union)

United Arab Emirates
  2 December 1971 (from UK)

United Kingdom
  England has existed as a unified entity since the
  10th century; the union between England and Wales, begun in 1284
  with the Statute of Rhuddlan, was not formalized until 1536 with an
  Act of Union; in another Act of Union in 1707, England and Scotland
  agreed to permanently join as Great Britain; the legislative union
  of Great Britain and Ireland was implemented in 1801, with the
  adoption of the name the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
  Ireland; the Anglo-Irish treaty of 1921 formalized a partition of
  Ireland; six northern Irish counties remained part of the United
  Kingdom as Northern Ireland and the current name of the country, the
  United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, was adopted in
  1927

United States
  4 July 1776 (from Great Britain)

Uruguay
  25 August 1825 (from Brazil)

Uzbekistan
  1 September 1991 (from Soviet Union)

Vanuatu
  30 July 1980 (from France and UK)

Venezuela
  5 July 1811 (from Spain)

Vietnam
  2 September 1945 (from France)

Virgin Islands
  none (territory of the US)

Wallis and Futuna
  none (overseas territory of France)

Yemen
  22 May 1990 (Republic of Yemen was established with the merger
  of the Yemen Arab Republic [Yemen (Sanaa) or North Yemen] and the
  Marxist-dominated People's Democratic Republic of Yemen [Yemen
  (Aden) or South Yemen]); note - previously North Yemen became
  independent in November 1918 (from the Ottoman Empire) and became a
  republic with the overthrow of the theocratic Imamate in 1962; South
  Yemen became independent on 30 November 1967 (from the UK)

Zambia
  24 October 1964 (from UK)

Zimbabwe
  18 April 1980 (from UK)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2089  Industrial production growth rate (%)


Afghanistan
  NA%

Albania
  4% (2007 est.)

Algeria
  5% (2007 est.)

American Samoa
  NA%

Andorra
  NA%

Angola
  23.9% (2007 est.)

Anguilla
  3.1% (1997 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  NA%

Argentina
  7.5% (2007 est.)

Armenia
  3.2% (2007 est.)

Aruba
  NA%

Australia
  4.1% (2007 est.)

Austria
  5.7% (2007 est.)

Azerbaijan
  25% (2007 est.)

Bahamas, The
  NA%

Bahrain
  5.2% (2007 est.)

Bangladesh
  8.4% (2007 est.)

Barbados
  -3.2% (2000 est.)

Belarus
  5% (2007 est.)

Belgium
  2.8% (2007 est.)

Belize
  0.5% (2007 est.)

Benin
  4.5% (2007 est.)

Bermuda
  NA%

Bhutan
  9.3% (1996 est.)

Bolivia
  1.1% (2007 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  6.7% (2007 est.)

Botswana
  4.2% (2007 est.)

Brazil
  4.9% (2007 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  NA%

Brunei
  1.8% (2005 est.)

Bulgaria
  14% (2007 est.)

Burkina Faso
  5.2% (2007 est.)

Burma
  9% (2007 est.)

Burundi
  6.4% (2007 est.)

Cambodia
  15% (2007 est.)

Cameroon
  3.5% (2007 est.)

Canada
  0.3% (2007 est.)

Cape Verde
  7.5% (2007 est.)

Cayman Islands
  NA%

Central African Republic
  3% (2002)

Chad
  2% (2007 est.)

Chile
  11.1% (2007 est.)

China
  13.4% (2007 est.)

Colombia
  9.8% (2007 est.)

Comoros
  -2% (1999 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  NA%

Congo, Republic of the
  -12% (2007 est.)

Cook Islands
  1% (2002)

Costa Rica
  7.3% (2007 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  -1.8% (2007 est.)

Croatia
  5.3% (2007 est.)

Cuba
  2.5% (2007 est.)

Cyprus
  3.8% (2007 est.)

Czech Republic
  9.8% (2007 est.)

Denmark
  0.5% (2007 est.)

Djibouti
  3% (1996 est.)

Dominica
  -10% (1997 est.)

Dominican Republic
  2.4% (2007 est.)

Ecuador
  1.4% (2007 est.)

Egypt
  7.5% (2007 est.)

El Salvador
  3.4% (2007 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  10.1% (2007 est.)

Eritrea
  2% (2007 est.)

Estonia
  7.7% (2007 est.)

Ethiopia
  11% (2007 est.)

European Union
  3.2% (2006 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  NA%

Faroe Islands
  8% (1999 est.)

Fiji
  NA%

Finland
  8.1% (2007 est.)

France
  1.8% (2007 est.)

French Polynesia
  NA%

Gabon
  5.2% (2007 est.)

Gambia, The
  -2.3% (2007 est.)

Gaza Strip
  2.4% (includes West Bank) (2005)

Georgia
  13.4% (2007 est.)

Germany
  5.2% (2007 est.)

Ghana
  7.8% (2007 est.)

Gibraltar
  NA%

Greece
  2.2% (2007 est.)

Greenland
  NA%

Grenada
  0.7% (1997 est.)

Guam
  NA%

Guatemala
  4.8% (2007 est.)

Guernsey
  NA%

Guinea
  7.6% (2007 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  4.7% (2003 est.)

Guyana
  -26.4% (2007 est.)

Haiti
  2.5% (2007 est.)

Honduras
  4.4% (2007 est.)

Hong Kong
  -0.8% (2007 est.)

Hungary
  3.5% (2007 est.)

Iceland
  9% (2007 est.)

India
  8.5% (2007 est.)

Indonesia
  4.7% (2007 est.)

Iran
  4.8% excluding oil (2007 est.)

Iraq
  7.9% (2007 est.)

Ireland
  5% (2007 est.)

Isle of Man
  3.2% (FY96/97)

Israel
  4.1% (2007 est.)

Italy
  0.6% (2007 est.)

Jamaica
  1.2% (2007 est.)

Japan
  1.3% (2007 est.)

Jersey
  NA%

Jordan
  7.7% (2007 est.)

Kazakhstan
  7.2% (2007 est.)

Kenya
  6.8% (2007 est.)

Kiribati
  0.7% (1991 est.)

Korea, North
  NA%

Korea, South
  5.5% (2007 est.)

Kuwait
  1.7% (2007 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  9.3% (2007 est.)

Laos
  12% (2007 est.)

Latvia
  5.4% (2007 est.)

Lebanon
  NA%

Lesotho
  12% (2007 est.)

Liberia
  NA%

Libya
  5.6% (2007 est.)

Liechtenstein
  NA%

Lithuania
  7.4% (2007 est.)

Luxembourg
  1.7% (2007 est.)

Macau
  3.8% (3rd quarter, 2007)

Macedonia
  1.7% (2007 est.)

Madagascar
  6% (2007 est.)

Malawi
  4.4% (2007 est.)

Malaysia
  3.3% (2007 est.)

Maldives
  -0.9% (2004 est.)

Mali
  NA%

Malta
  NA%

Marshall Islands
  NA%

Mauritania
  2% (2000 est.)

Mauritius
  4.7% (2007 est.)

Mayotte
  NA%

Mexico
  1.4% (2007 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  NA%

Moldova
  1% (2007 est.)

Monaco
  NA%

Mongolia
  3% (2006 est.)

Montserrat
  NA%

Morocco
  5% (2007 est.)

Mozambique
  10% (2007 est.)

Namibia
  9% (2007 est.)

Nauru
  NA%

Nepal
  2.2% (FY05/06)

Netherlands
  3.1% (2007 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  NA%

New Caledonia
  -0.6% (1996)

New Zealand
  1.5% (2007 est.)

Nicaragua
  5% (2007 est.)

Niger
  5.1% (2003 est.)

Nigeria
  3.2% (2007 est.)

Niue
  NA%

Northern Mariana Islands
  NA%

Norway
  0.1% (2007 est.)

Oman
  3.2% (2007 est.)

Pakistan
  8% (2007 est.)

Palau
  NA%

Panama
  10.5% (2007 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  6.4% (2007 est.)

Paraguay
  -1% (2007 est.)

Peru
  9.8% (2007 est.)

Philippines
  7.1% (2007 est.)

Poland
  8.9% (2007 est.)

Portugal
  2.3% (2007 est.)

Puerto Rico
  NA%

Qatar
  8% (2007 est.)

Romania
  10.6% (2007 est.)

Russia
  7.4% (2007 est.)

Rwanda
  13.1% (2007 est.)

Saint Helena
  NA%

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  NA%

Saint Lucia
  -8.9% (1997 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  NA%

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  -0.9% (1997 est.)

Samoa
  2.8% (2000)

San Marino
  5.6% (2005 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe
  7% (2007 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  2.9% (2007 est.)

Senegal
  5.2% (2007 est.)

Serbia
  1.8% (2007 est.)

Seychelles
  7% (2007 est.)

Sierra Leone
  NA%

Singapore
  7.4% (2007 est.)

Slovakia
  17.2% (2007 est.)

Slovenia
  9.5% (2007 est.)

Solomon Islands
  NA%

Somalia
  NA%

South Africa
  4.4% (2007 est.)

Spain
  3.1% (2007 est.)

Sri Lanka
  7.6% (2007 est.)

Sudan
  22% (2007 est.)

Suriname
  6.5% (1994 est.)

Swaziland
  1.1% (2007 est.)

Sweden
  3% (2007 est.)

Switzerland
  6.5% (2006 est.)

Syria
  2.5% (2007 est.)

Taiwan
  9.2% (2007 est.)

Tajikistan
  5% (2007 est.)

Tanzania
  9.5% (2007 est.)

Thailand
  5.4% (2007 est.)

Timor-Leste
  8.5% (2004 est.)

Togo
  1% (2007 est.)

Tonga
  1% (2003 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  6.5% (2007 est.)

Tunisia
  7.2% (2007 est.)

Turkey
  5.4% (2007 est.)

Turkmenistan
  10.3% (2007 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  NA%

Tuvalu
  NA%

Uganda
  5.8% (2007 est.)

Ukraine
  6% (2007 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  4.3% (2007 est.)

United Kingdom
  0.5% (2007 est.)

United States
  -1.7% (2007 est.)

Uruguay
  7.9% (2007 est.)

Uzbekistan
  12.1% (2007 est.)

Vanuatu
  1% (1997 est.)

Venezuela
  3.9% (2007 est.)

Vietnam
  10.6% (2007 est.)

Virgin Islands
  NA%

Wallis and Futuna
  NA%

West Bank
  2.4% (includes Gaza Strip) (2005)

Western Sahara
  NA%

World
  5% (2007 est.)

Yemen
  3.2% (2007 est.)

Zambia
  6.3% (2007 est.)

Zimbabwe
  -5% (2007 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2090  Industries


Afghanistan
  small-scale production of textiles, soap, furniture,
  shoes, fertilizer, cement; handwoven carpets; natural gas, coal,
  copper

Albania
  food processing, textiles and clothing; lumber, oil, cement,
  chemicals, mining, basic metals, hydropower

Algeria
  petroleum, natural gas, light industries, mining,
  electrical, petrochemical, food processing

American Samoa
  tuna canneries (largely supplied by foreign fishing
  vessels), handicrafts

Andorra
  tourism (particularly skiing), cattle raising, timber,
  banking, tobacco, furniture

Angola
  petroleum; diamonds, iron ore, phosphates, feldspar, bauxite,
  uranium, and gold; cement; basic metal products; fish processing;
  food processing, brewing, tobacco products, sugar; textiles; ship
  repair

Anguilla
  tourism, boat building, offshore financial services

Antigua and Barbuda
  tourism, construction, light manufacturing
  (clothing, alcohol, household appliances)

Argentina
  food processing, motor vehicles, consumer durables,
  textiles, chemicals and petrochemicals, printing, metallurgy, steel

Armenia
  diamond-processing, metal-cutting machine tools,
  forging-pressing machines, electric motors, tires, knitted wear,
  hosiery, shoes, silk fabric, chemicals, trucks, instruments,
  microelectronics, jewelry manufacturing, software development, food
  processing, brandy

Aruba
  tourism, transshipment facilities, oil refining

Australia
  mining, industrial and transportation equipment, food
  processing, chemicals, steel

Austria
  construction, machinery, vehicles and parts, food, metals,
  chemicals, lumber and wood processing, paper and paperboard,
  communications equipment, tourism

Azerbaijan
  petroleum and natural gas, petroleum products, oilfield
  equipment; steel, iron ore; cement; chemicals and petrochemicals;
  textiles

Bahamas, The
  tourism, banking, cement, oil transshipment, salt, rum,
  aragonite, pharmaceuticals, spiral-welded steel pipe

Bahrain
  petroleum processing and refining, aluminum smelting, iron
  pelletization, fertilizers, Islamic and offshore banking, insurance,
  ship repairing, tourism

Bangladesh
  cotton textiles, jute, garments, tea processing, paper
  newsprint, cement, chemical fertilizer, light engineering, sugar

Barbados
  tourism, sugar, light manufacturing, component assembly for
  export

Belarus
  metal-cutting machine tools, tractors, trucks, earthmovers,
  motorcycles, televisions, synthetic fibers, fertilizer, textiles,
  radios, refrigerators

Belgium
  engineering and metal products, motor vehicle assembly,
  transportation equipment, scientific instruments, processed food and
  beverages, chemicals, basic metals, textiles, glass, petroleum

Belize
  garment production, food processing, tourism, construction,
  oil

Benin
  textiles, food processing, construction materials, cement

Bermuda
  international business, tourism, light manufacturing

Bhutan
  cement, wood products, processed fruits, alcoholic beverages,
  calcium carbide, tourism

Bolivia
  mining, smelting, petroleum, food and beverages, tobacco,
  handicrafts, clothing

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  steel, coal, iron ore, lead, zinc, manganese,
  bauxite, vehicle assembly, textiles, tobacco products, wooden
  furniture, tank and aircraft assembly, domestic appliances, oil
  refining

Botswana
  diamonds, copper, nickel, salt, soda ash, potash; livestock
  processing; textiles

Brazil
  textiles, shoes, chemicals, cement, lumber, iron ore, tin,
  steel, aircraft, motor vehicles and parts, other machinery and
  equipment

British Virgin Islands
  tourism, light industry, construction, rum,
  concrete block, offshore financial center

Brunei
  petroleum, petroleum refining, liquefied natural gas,
  construction

Bulgaria
  electricity, gas, water; food, beverages, tobacco;
  machinery and equipment, base metals, chemical products, coke,
  refined petroleum, nuclear fuel

Burkina Faso
  cotton lint, beverages, agricultural processing, soap,
  cigarettes, textiles, gold

Burma
  agricultural processing; wood and wood products; copper, tin,
  tungsten, iron; cement, construction materials; pharmaceuticals;
  fertilizer; natural gas; garments, jade and gems

Burundi
  light consumer goods such as blankets, shoes, soap; assembly
  of imported components; public works construction; food processing

Cambodia
  tourism, garments, rice milling, fishing, wood and wood
  products, rubber, cement, gem mining, textiles

Cameroon
  petroleum production and refining, aluminum production,
  food processing, light consumer goods, textiles, lumber, ship repair

Canada
  transportation equipment, chemicals, processed and
  unprocessed minerals, food products, wood and paper products, fish
  products, petroleum and natural gas

Cape Verde
  food and beverages, fish processing, shoes and garments,
  salt mining, ship repair

Cayman Islands
  tourism, banking, insurance and finance,
  construction, construction materials, furniture

Central African Republic
  gold and diamond mining, logging, brewing,
  textiles, footwear, assembly of bicycles and motorcycles

Chad
  oil, cotton textiles, meatpacking, brewing, natron (sodium
  carbonate), soap, cigarettes, construction materials

Chile
  copper, other minerals, foodstuffs, fish processing, iron and
  steel, wood and wood products, transport equipment, cement, textiles

China
  mining and ore processing, iron, steel, aluminum, and other
  metals, coal; machine building; armaments; textiles and apparel;
  petroleum; cement; chemicals; fertilizers; consumer products,
  including footwear, toys, and electronics; food processing;
  transportation equipment, including automobiles, rail cars and
  locomotives, ships, and aircraft; telecommunications equipment,
  commercial space launch vehicles, satellites

Christmas Island
  tourism, phosphate extraction (near depletion)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  copra products and tourism

Colombia
  textiles, food processing, oil, clothing and footwear,
  beverages, chemicals, cement; gold, coal, emeralds

Comoros
  fishing, tourism, perfume distillation

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  mining (diamonds, gold, copper,
  cobalt, coltan zinc), mineral processing, consumer products
  (including textiles, footwear, cigarettes, processed foods and
  beverages), cement, commercial ship repair

Congo, Republic of the
  petroleum extraction, cement, lumber,
  brewing, sugar, palm oil, soap, flour, cigarettes

Cook Islands
  fruit processing, tourism, fishing, clothing,
  handicrafts

Costa Rica
  microprocessors, food processing, medical equipment,
  textiles and clothing, construction materials, fertilizer, plastic
  products

Cote d'Ivoire
  foodstuffs, beverages; wood products, oil refining,
  truck and bus assembly, textiles, fertilizer, building materials,
  electricity, ship construction and repair

Croatia
  chemicals and plastics, machine tools, fabricated metal,
  electronics, pig iron and rolled steel products, aluminum, paper,
  wood products, construction materials, textiles, shipbuilding,
  petroleum and petroleum refining, food and beverages, tourism

Cuba
  sugar, petroleum, tobacco, construction, nickel, steel, cement,
  agricultural machinery, pharmaceuticals

Cyprus
  tourism, food and beverage processing, cement and gypsum
  production, ship repair and refurbishment, textiles, light
  chemicals, metal products, wood, paper, stone, and clay products

Czech Republic
  metallurgy, machinery and equipment, motor vehicles,
  glass, armaments

Denmark
  iron, steel, nonferrous metals, chemicals, food processing,
  machinery and transportation equipment, textiles and clothing,
  electronics, construction, furniture and other wood products,
  shipbuilding and refurbishment, windmills, pharmaceuticals, medical
  equipment

Dhekelia
  none

Djibouti
  construction, agricultural processing

Dominica
  soap, coconut oil, tourism, copra, furniture, cement
  blocks, shoes

Dominican Republic
  tourism, sugar processing, ferronickel and gold
  mining, textiles, cement, tobacco

Ecuador
  petroleum, food processing, textiles, wood products,
  chemicals

Egypt
  textiles, food processing, tourism, chemicals,
  pharmaceuticals, hydrocarbons, construction, cement, metals, light
  manufactures

El Salvador
  food processing, beverages, petroleum, chemicals,
  fertilizer, textiles, furniture, light metals

Equatorial Guinea
  petroleum, fishing, sawmilling, natural gas

Eritrea
  food processing, beverages, clothing and textiles, light
  manufacturing, salt, cement

Estonia
  engineering, electronics, wood and wood products, textiles;
  information technology, telecommunications

Ethiopia
  food processing, beverages, textiles, leather, chemicals,
  metals processing, cement

European Union
  among the world's largest and most technologically
  advanced, the European Union industrial base includes: ferrous and
  non-ferrous metal production and processing, metal products,
  petroleum, coal, cement, chemicals, pharmaceuticals, aerospace, rail
  transportation equipment, passenger and commercial vehicles,
  construction equipment, industrial equipment, shipbuilding,
  electrical power equipment, machine tools and automated
  manufacturing systems, electronics and telecommunications equipment,
  fishing, food and beverage processing, furniture, paper, textiles,
  tourism

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  fish and wool processing; tourism

Faroe Islands
  fishing, fish processing, small ship repair and
  refurbishment, handicrafts

Fiji
  tourism, sugar, clothing, copra, gold, silver, lumber, small
  cottage industries

Finland
  metals and metal products, electronics, machinery and
  scientific instruments, shipbuilding, pulp and paper, foodstuffs,
  chemicals, textiles, clothing

France
  machinery, chemicals, automobiles, metallurgy, aircraft,
  electronics; textiles, food processing; tourism

French Polynesia
  tourism, pearls, agricultural processing,
  handicrafts, phosphates

Gabon
  petroleum extraction and refining; manganese, gold; chemicals,
  ship repair, food and beverages, textiles, lumbering and plywood,
  cement

Gambia, The
  processing peanuts, fish, and hides; tourism, beverages,
  agricultural machinery assembly, woodworking, metalworking, clothing

Gaza Strip
  generally small family businesses that produce textiles,
  soap, olive-wood carvings, and mother-of-pearl souvenirs; the
  Israelis had established some small-scale modern industries in an
  industrial center, but operations ceased prior to Israel's
  evacuation of Gaza Strip settlements

Georgia
  steel, aircraft, machine tools, electrical appliances,
  mining (manganese and copper), chemicals, wood products, wine

Germany
  among the world's largest and most technologically advanced
  producers of iron, steel, coal, cement, chemicals, machinery,
  vehicles, machine tools, electronics, food and beverages,
  shipbuilding, textiles

Ghana
  mining, lumbering, light manufacturing, aluminum smelting,
  food processing, cement, small commercial ship building

Gibraltar
  tourism, banking and finance, ship repairing, tobacco

Greece
  tourism, food and tobacco processing, textiles, chemicals,
  metal products; mining, petroleum

Greenland
  fish processing (mainly shrimp and Greenland halibut);
  gold, niobium, tantalite, uranium, iron and diamond mining;
  handicrafts, hides and skins, small shipyards

Grenada
  food and beverages, textiles, light assembly operations,
  tourism, construction

Guam
  US military, tourism, construction, transshipment services,
  concrete products, printing and publishing, food processing, textiles

Guatemala
  sugar, textiles and clothing, furniture, chemicals,
  petroleum, metals, rubber, tourism

Guernsey
  tourism, banking

Guinea
  bauxite, gold, diamonds, iron; alumina refining; light
  manufacturing, and agricultural processing

Guinea-Bissau
  agricultural products processing, beer, soft drinks

Guyana
  bauxite, sugar, rice milling, timber, textiles, gold mining

Haiti
  sugar refining, flour milling, textiles, cement, light
  assembly based on imported parts

Holy See (Vatican City)
  printing; production of coins, medals,
  postage stamps; a small amount of mosaics and staff uniforms;
  worldwide banking and financial activities

Honduras
  sugar, coffee, textiles, clothing, wood products

Hong Kong
  textiles, clothing, tourism, banking, shipping,
  electronics, plastics, toys, watches, clocks

Hungary
  mining, metallurgy, construction materials, processed foods,
  textiles, chemicals (especially pharmaceuticals), motor vehicles

Iceland
  fish processing; aluminum smelting, ferrosilicon production;
  geothermal power, tourism

India
  textiles, chemicals, food processing, steel, transportation
  equipment, cement, mining, petroleum, machinery, software

Indonesia
  petroleum and natural gas, textiles, apparel, footwear,
  mining, cement, chemical fertilizers, plywood, rubber, food, tourism

Iran
  petroleum, petrochemicals, fertilizers, caustic soda, textiles,
  cement and other construction materials, food processing
  (particularly sugar refining and vegetable oil production), ferrous
  and non-ferrous metal fabrication, armaments

Iraq
  petroleum, chemicals, textiles, leather, construction
  materials, food processing, fertilizer, metal fabrication/processing

Ireland
  steel, lead, zinc, silver, aluminum, barite, and gypsum
  mining processing; food products, brewing, textiles, clothing;
  chemicals, pharmaceuticals; machinery, rail transportation
  equipment; glass and crystal; software, tourism

Isle of Man
  financial services, light manufacturing, tourism

Israel
  high-technology projects (including aviation, communications,
  computer-aided design and manufactures, medical electronics, fiber
  optics), wood and paper products, potash and phosphates, food,
  beverages, and tobacco, caustic soda, cement, construction, metals
  products, chemical products, plastics, diamond cutting, textiles,
  footwear

Italy
  tourism, machinery, iron and steel, chemicals, food
  processing, textiles, motor vehicles, clothing, footwear, ceramics

Jamaica
  tourism, bauxite/alumina, agro processing, light
  manufactures, rum, cement, metal, paper, chemical products,
  telecommunications

Japan
  among world's largest and technologically advanced producers
  of motor vehicles, electronic equipment, machine tools, steel and
  nonferrous metals, ships, chemicals, textiles, processed foods

Jersey
  tourism, banking and finance, dairy, electronics

Jordan
  clothing, phosphate mining, fertilizers, pharmaceuticals,
  petroleum refining, cement, potash, inorganic chemicals, light
  manufacturing, tourism

Kazakhstan
  oil, coal, iron ore, manganese, chromite, lead, zinc,
  copper, titanium, bauxite, gold, silver, phosphates, sulfur, iron
  and steel; tractors and other agricultural machinery, electric
  motors, construction materials

Kenya
  small-scale consumer goods (plastic, furniture, batteries,
  textiles, clothing, soap, cigarettes, flour), agricultural products,
  horticulture, oil refining; aluminum, steel, lead; cement,
  commercial ship repair, tourism

Kiribati
  fishing, handicrafts

Korea, North
  military products; machine building, electric power,
  chemicals; mining (coal, iron ore, limestone, magnesite, graphite,
  copper, zinc, lead, and precious metals), metallurgy; textiles, food
  processing; tourism

Korea, South
  electronics, telecommunications, automobile production,
  chemicals, shipbuilding, steel

Kosovo
  mineral mining, construction materials, base metals, leather,
  machinery, appliances

Kuwait
  petroleum, petrochemicals, cement, shipbuilding and repair,
  water desalination, food processing, construction materials

Kyrgyzstan
  small machinery, textiles, food processing, cement,
  shoes, sawn logs, refrigerators, furniture, electric motors, gold,
  rare earth metals

Laos
  copper, tin, gold, and gypsum mining; timber, electric power,
  agricultural processing, construction, garments, tourism, cement

Latvia
  buses, vans, street and railroad cars; synthetic fibers,
  agricultural machinery, fertilizers, washing machines, radios,
  electronics, pharmaceuticals, processed foods, textiles; note -
  dependent on imports for energy and raw materials

Lebanon
  banking, tourism, food processing, wine, jewelry, cement,
  textiles, mineral and chemical products, wood and furniture
  products, oil refining, metal fabricating

Lesotho
  food, beverages, textiles, apparel assembly, handicrafts,
  construction, tourism

Liberia
  rubber processing, palm oil processing, timber, diamonds

Libya
  petroleum, iron and steel, food processing, textiles,
  handicrafts, cement

Liechtenstein
  electronics, metal manufacturing, dental products,
  ceramics, pharmaceuticals, food products, precision instruments,
  tourism, optical instruments

Lithuania
  metal-cutting machine tools, electric motors, television
  sets, refrigerators and freezers, petroleum refining, shipbuilding
  (small ships), furniture making, textiles, food processing,
  fertilizers, agricultural machinery, optical equipment, electronic
  components, computers, amber jewelry

Luxembourg
  banking and financial services, iron and steel,
  information technology, telecommunications, cargo transportation,
  food processing, chemicals, metal products, engineering, tires,
  glass, aluminum, tourism

Macau
  tourism, gambling, clothing, textiles, electronics, footwear,
  toys

Macedonia
  food processing, beverages, textiles, chemicals, iron,
  steel, cement, energy, pharmaceuticals

Madagascar
  meat processing, seafood, soap, breweries, tanneries,
  sugar, textiles, glassware, cement, automobile assembly plant,
  paper, petroleum, tourism

Malawi
  tobacco, tea, sugar, sawmill products, cement, consumer goods

Malaysia
  Peninsular Malaysia - rubber and oil palm processing and
  manufacturing, light manufacturing, electronics, tin mining and
  smelting, logging, timber processing; Sabah - logging, petroleum
  production; Sarawak - agriculture processing, petroleum production
  and refining, logging

Maldives
  tourism, fish processing, shipping, boat building, coconut
  processing, garments, woven mats, rope, handicrafts, coral and sand
  mining

Mali
  food processing; construction; phosphate and gold mining

Malta
  tourism, electronics, ship building and repair, construction,
  food and beverages, pharmaceuticals, footwear, clothing, tobacco

Marshall Islands
  copra, tuna processing, tourism, craft items (from
  seashells, wood, and pearls)

Mauritania
  fish processing, mining of iron ore and gypsum

Mauritius
  food processing (largely sugar milling), textiles,
  clothing, mining, chemicals, metal products, transport equipment,
  nonelectrical machinery, tourism

Mayotte
  newly created lobster and shrimp industry, construction

Mexico
  food and beverages, tobacco, chemicals, iron and steel,
  petroleum, mining, textiles, clothing, motor vehicles, consumer
  durables, tourism

Micronesia, Federated States of
  tourism, construction; fish
  processing, specialized aquaculture; craft items (from shell, wood,
  and pearls)

Moldova
  sugar, vegetable oil, food processing, agricultural
  machinery; foundry equipment, refrigerators and freezers, washing
  machines; hosiery, shoes, textiles

Monaco
  tourism, construction, small-scale industrial and consumer
  products

Mongolia
  construction and construction materials; mining (coal,
  copper, molybdenum, fluorspar, tin, tungsten, and gold); oil; food
  and beverages; processing of animal products, cashmere and natural
  fiber manufacturing

Montenegro
  steelmaking, aluminum, agricultural processing, consumer
  goods, tourism

Montserrat
  tourism, rum, textiles, electronic appliances

Morocco
  phosphate rock mining and processing, food processing,
  leather goods, textiles, construction, tourism

Mozambique
  food, beverages, chemicals (fertilizer, soap, paints),
  aluminum, petroleum products, textiles, cement, glass, asbestos,
  tobacco

Namibia
  meatpacking, fish processing, dairy products; mining
  (diamonds, lead, zinc, tin, silver, tungsten, uranium, copper)

Nauru
  phosphate mining, offshore banking, coconut products

Nepal
  tourism, carpets, textiles; small rice, jute, sugar, and
  oilseed mills; cigarettes, cement and brick production

Netherlands
  agroindustries, metal and engineering products,
  electrical machinery and equipment, chemicals, petroleum,
  construction, microelectronics, fishing

Netherlands Antilles
  tourism (Curacao, Sint Maarten, and Bonaire),
  petroleum refining (Curacao), petroleum transshipment facilities
  (Curacao and Bonaire), light manufacturing (Curacao)

New Caledonia
  nickel mining and smelting

New Zealand
  food processing, wood and paper products, textiles,
  machinery, transportation equipment, banking and insurance, tourism,
  mining

Nicaragua
  food processing, chemicals, machinery and metal products,
  textiles, clothing, petroleum refining and distribution, beverages,
  footwear, wood

Niger
  uranium mining, cement, brick, soap, textiles, food
  processing, chemicals, slaughterhouses

Nigeria
  crude oil, coal, tin, columbite; palm oil, peanuts, cotton,
  rubber, wood; hides and skins, textiles, cement and other
  construction materials, food products, footwear, chemicals,
  fertilizer, printing, ceramics, steel, small commercial ship
  construction and repair

Niue
  tourism, handicrafts, food processing

Norfolk Island
  tourism, light industry, ready mixed concrete

Northern Mariana Islands
  tourism, construction, garments, handicrafts

Norway
  petroleum and gas, food processing, shipbuilding, pulp and
  paper products, metals, chemicals, timber, mining, textiles, fishing

Oman
  crude oil production and refining, natural and liquefied
  natural gas (LNG) production; construction, cement, copper, steel,
  chemicals, optic fiber

Pakistan
  textiles and apparel, food processing, pharmaceuticals,
  construction materials, paper products, fertilizer, shrimp

Palau
  tourism, craft items (from shell, wood, pearls), construction,
  garment making

Panama
  construction, brewing, cement and other construction
  materials, sugar milling

Papua New Guinea
  copra crushing, palm oil processing, plywood
  production, wood chip production; mining of gold, silver, and
  copper; crude oil production, petroleum refining; construction,
  tourism

Paraguay
  sugar, cement, textiles, beverages, wood products, steel,
  metallurgic, electric power

Peru
  mining and refining of minerals; steel, metal fabrication;
  petroleum extraction and refining, natural gas; fishing and fish
  processing, textiles, clothing, food processing

Philippines
  electronics assembly, garments, footwear,
  pharmaceuticals, chemicals, wood products, food processing,
  petroleum refining, fishing

Pitcairn Islands
  postage stamps, handicrafts, beekeeping, honey

Poland
  machine building, iron and steel, coal mining, chemicals,
  shipbuilding, food processing, glass, beverages, textiles

Portugal
  textiles, clothing, footwear, wood and cork, paper,
  chemicals, auto-parts manufacturing, base metals, diary products,
  wine and other foods, porcelain and ceramics, glassware, technology,
  telecommunications; ship construction and refurbishment; tourism

Puerto Rico
  pharmaceuticals, electronics, apparel, food products,
  tourism

Qatar
  crude oil production and refining, ammonia, fertilizers,
  petrochemicals, steel reinforcing bars, cement, commercial ship
  repair

Romania
  electric machinery and equipment, textiles and footwear,
  light machinery and auto assembly, mining, timber, construction
  materials, metallurgy, chemicals, food processing, petroleum refining

Russia
  complete range of mining and extractive industries producing
  coal, oil, gas, chemicals, and metals; all forms of machine building
  from rolling mills to high-performance aircraft and space vehicles;
  defense industries including radar, missile production, and advanced
  electronic components, shipbuilding; road and rail transportation
  equipment; communications equipment; agricultural machinery,
  tractors, and construction equipment; electric power generating and
  transmitting equipment; medical and scientific instruments; consumer
  durables, textiles, foodstuffs, handicrafts

Rwanda
  cement, agricultural products, small-scale beverages, soap,
  furniture, shoes, plastic goods, textiles, cigarettes

Saint Helena
  construction, crafts (furniture, lacework, fancy
  woodwork), fishing, philatelic sales

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  tourism, cotton, salt, copra, clothing,
  footwear, beverages

Saint Lucia
  clothing, assembly of electronic components, beverages,
  corrugated cardboard boxes, tourism; lime processing, coconut
  processing

Saint Martin
  tourism, light industry and manufacturing, heavy
  industry

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  fish processing and supply base for
  fishing fleets; tourism

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  food processing, cement, furniture,
  clothing, starch

Samoa
  food processing, building materials, auto parts

San Marino
  tourism, banking, textiles, electronics, ceramics,
  cement, wine

Sao Tome and Principe
  light construction, textiles, soap, beer, fish
  processing, timber

Saudi Arabia
  crude oil production, petroleum refining, basic
  petrochemicals, ammonia, industrial gases, sodium hydroxide (caustic
  soda), cement, fertilizer, plastics, metals, commercial ship repair,
  commercial aircraft repair, construction

Senegal
  agricultural and fish processing, phosphate mining,
  fertilizer production, petroleum refining; iron ore, zircon, and
  gold mining, construction materials, ship construction and repair

Serbia
  sugar, agricultural machinery, electrical and communication
  equipment, paper and pulp, lead, transportation equipment

Seychelles
  fishing, tourism, processing of coconuts and vanilla,
  coir (coconut fiber) rope, boat building, printing, furniture;
  beverages

Sierra Leone
  diamond mining; small-scale manufacturing (beverages,
  textiles, cigarettes, footwear); petroleum refining, small
  commercial ship repair

Singapore
  electronics, chemicals, financial services, oil drilling
  equipment, petroleum refining, rubber processing and rubber
  products, processed food and beverages, ship repair, offshore
  platform construction, life sciences, entrepot trade

Slovakia
  metal and metal products; food and beverages; electricity,
  gas, coke, oil, nuclear fuel; chemicals and manmade fibers;
  machinery; paper and printing; earthenware and ceramics; transport
  vehicles; textiles; electrical and optical apparatus; rubber products

Slovenia
  ferrous metallurgy and aluminum products, lead and zinc
  smelting; electronics (including military electronics), trucks,
  automobiles, electric power equipment, wood products, textiles,
  chemicals, machine tools

Solomon Islands
  fish (tuna), mining, timber

Somalia
  a few light industries, including sugar refining, textiles,
  wireless communication

South Africa
  mining (world's largest producer of platinum, gold,
  chromium), automobile assembly, metalworking, machinery, textiles,
  iron and steel, chemicals, fertilizer, foodstuffs, commercial ship
  repair

Spain
  textiles and apparel (including footwear), food and beverages,
  metals and metal manufactures, chemicals, shipbuilding, automobiles,
  machine tools, tourism, clay and refractory products, footwear,
  pharmaceuticals, medical equipment

Sri Lanka
  processing of rubber, tea, coconuts, tobacco and other
  agricultural commodities; telecommunications, insurance, banking;
  clothing, textiles; cement, petroleum refining

Sudan
  oil, cotton ginning, textiles, cement, edible oils, sugar,
  soap distilling, shoes, petroleum refining, pharmaceuticals,
  armaments, automobile/light truck assembly

Suriname
  bauxite and gold mining, alumina production; oil,
  lumbering, food processing, fishing

Swaziland
  coal, wood pulp, sugar, soft drink concentrates, textiles
  and apparel

Sweden
  iron and steel, precision equipment (bearings, radio and
  telephone parts, armaments), wood pulp and paper products, processed
  foods, motor vehicles

Switzerland
  machinery, chemicals, watches, textiles, precision
  instruments, tourism, banking, and insurance

Syria
  petroleum, textiles, food processing, beverages, tobacco,
  phosphate rock mining, cement, oil seeds crushing, car assembly

Taiwan
  electronics, petroleum refining, armaments, chemicals,
  textiles, iron and steel, machinery, cement, food processing,
  vehicles, consumer products, pharmaceuticals

Tajikistan
  aluminum, zinc, lead; chemicals and fertilizers, cement,
  vegetable oil, metal-cutting machine tools, refrigerators and
  freezers

Tanzania
  agricultural processing (sugar, beer, cigarettes, sisal
  twine); diamond, gold, and iron mining, salt, soda ash; cement, oil
  refining, shoes, apparel, wood products, fertilizer

Thailand
  tourism, textiles and garments, agricultural processing,
  beverages, tobacco, cement, light manufacturing such as jewelry and
  electric appliances, computers and parts, integrated circuits,
  furniture, plastics, automobiles and automotive parts; world's
  second-largest tungsten producer and third-largest tin producer

Timor-Leste
  printing, soap manufacturing, handicrafts, woven cloth

Togo
  phosphate mining, agricultural processing, cement, handicrafts,
  textiles, beverages

Tokelau
  small-scale enterprises for copra production, woodworking,
  plaited craft goods; stamps, coins; fishing

Tonga
  tourism, construction, fishing

Trinidad and Tobago
  petroleum, chemicals, tourism, food processing,
  cement, beverage, cotton textiles

Tunisia
  petroleum, mining (particularly phosphate and iron ore),
  tourism, textiles, footwear, agribusiness, beverages

Turkey
  textiles, food processing, autos, electronics, mining (coal,
  chromite, copper, boron), steel, petroleum, construction, lumber,
  paper

Turkmenistan
  natural gas, oil, petroleum products, textiles, food
  processing

Turks and Caicos Islands
  tourism, offshore financial services

Tuvalu
  fishing, tourism, copra

Uganda
  sugar, brewing, tobacco, cotton textiles; cement, steel
  production

Ukraine
  coal, electric power, ferrous and nonferrous metals,
  machinery and transport equipment, chemicals, food processing
  (especially sugar)

United Arab Emirates
  petroleum and petrochemicals; fishing,
  aluminum, cement, fertilizers, commercial ship repair, construction
  materials, some boat building, handicrafts, textiles

United Kingdom
  machine tools, electric power equipment, automation
  equipment, railroad equipment, shipbuilding, aircraft, motor
  vehicles and parts, electronics and communications equipment,
  metals, chemicals, coal, petroleum, paper and paper products, food
  processing, textiles, clothing, other consumer goods

United States
  leading industrial power in the world, highly
  diversified and technologically advanced; petroleum, steel, motor
  vehicles, aerospace, telecommunications, chemicals, electronics,
  food processing, consumer goods, lumber, mining

Uruguay
  food processing, electrical machinery, transportation
  equipment, petroleum products, textiles, chemicals, beverages

Uzbekistan
  textiles, food processing, machine building, metallurgy,
  gold, petroleum, natural gas, chemicals

Vanuatu
  food and fish freezing, wood processing, meat canning

Venezuela
  petroleum, construction materials, food processing,
  textiles; iron ore mining, steel, aluminum; motor vehicle assembly

Vietnam
  food processing, garments, shoes, machine-building; mining,
  coal, steel; cement, chemical fertilizer, glass, tires, oil, paper

Virgin Islands
  tourism, petroleum refining, watch assembly, rum
  distilling, construction, pharmaceuticals, textiles, electronics

Wallis and Futuna
  copra, handicrafts, fishing, lumber

West Bank
  generally small family businesses that produce cement,
  textiles, soap, olive-wood carvings, and mother-of-pearl souvenirs;
  the Israelis have established some small-scale, modern industries in
  the settlements and industrial centers

Western Sahara
  phosphate mining, handicrafts

World
  dominated by the onrush of technology, especially in
  computers, robotics, telecommunications, and medicines and medical
  equipment; most of these advances take place in OECD nations; only a
  small portion of non-OECD countries have succeeded in rapidly
  adjusting to these technological forces; the accelerated development
  of new industrial (and agricultural) technology is complicating
  already grim environmental problems

Yemen
  crude oil production and petroleum refining; small-scale
  production of cotton textiles and leather goods; food processing;
  handicrafts; small aluminum products factory; cement; commercial
  ship repair

Zambia
  copper mining and processing, construction, foodstuffs,
  beverages, chemicals, textiles, fertilizer, horticulture

Zimbabwe
  mining (coal, gold, platinum, copper, nickel, tin, clay,
  numerous metallic and nonmetallic ores), steel; wood products,
  cement, chemicals, fertilizer, clothing and footwear, foodstuffs,
  beverages

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2091  Infant mortality rate (deaths/1,000 live births)


Afghanistan
  total: 154.67 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 158.88 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 150.24 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Albania
  total: 19.31 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 19.74 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 18.83 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Algeria
  total: 28.75 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 31.95 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 25.39 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

American Samoa
  total: 10.46 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 13.69 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 7.03 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Andorra
  total: 3.68 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 3.76 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 3.6 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Angola
  total: 182.31 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 194.38 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 169.64 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Anguilla
  total: 3.54 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 4.01 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 3.06 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  total: 17.49 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 20.21 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 14.62 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Argentina
  total: 11.78 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 13.12 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 10.37 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Armenia
  total: 20.94 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 25.82 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 15.33 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Aruba
  total: 14.26 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 18.92 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 9.51 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Australia
  total: 4.82 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 5.15 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 4.47 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Austria
  total: 4.48 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 5.48 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 3.44 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Azerbaijan
  total: 56.43 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 62.09 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 49.98 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Bahamas, The
  total: 23.67 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 28.89 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 18.34 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Bahrain
  total: 15.64 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 18.27 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 12.93 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Bangladesh
  total: 57.45 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 58.44 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 56.41 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Barbados
  total: 11.05 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 12.4 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 9.69 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Belarus
  total: 6.53 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 7.56 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 5.44 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Belgium
  total: 4.5 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 5.06 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 3.92 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Belize
  total: 23.65 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 26.35 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 20.81 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Benin
  total: 66.2 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 69.68 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 62.55 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Bermuda
  total: 7.87 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 9.31 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 6.4 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Bhutan
  total: 51.92 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 53.1 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 50.69 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Bolivia
  total: 49.09 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 52.54 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 45.48 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  total: 9.34 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 10.71 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 7.87 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Botswana
  total: 44.01 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 44.94 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 43.04 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Brazil
  total: 23.33 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 26.95 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 19.53 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  total: 15.2 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 17.23 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 13.06 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Brunei
  total: 12.69 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 15.19 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 10.07 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Bulgaria
  total: 18.51 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 22 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 14.8 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Burkina Faso
  total: 86.02 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 93.68 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 78.12 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Burma
  total: 49.12 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 55.53 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 42.33 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Burundi
  total: 60.77 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 67.6 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 53.73 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Cambodia
  total: 56.59 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 63.76 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 49.1 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Cameroon
  total: 64.57 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 69.39 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 59.62 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Canada
  total: 5.08 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 5.4 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 4.75 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Cape Verde
  total: 42.55 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 48.66 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 36.25 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Cayman Islands
  total: 7.1 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 8.16 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 6.03 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Central African Republic
  total: 82.13 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 88.84 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 75.23 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Chad
  total: 100.36 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 106.48 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 94 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Chile
  total: 7.9 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 8.7 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 7.06 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

China
  total: 21.16 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 19.43 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 23.08 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Christmas Island
  total: NA
  male: NA
  female: NA (2008 est.)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  total: NA
  male: NA
  female: NA (2008 est.)

Colombia
  total: 19.51 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 23.18 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 15.7 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Comoros
  total: 68.58 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 76.65 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 60.28 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  total: 83.11 deaths/1,000 live
  births
  male: 91.14 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 74.83 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  total: 81.29 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 86.9 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 75.51 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Cook Islands
  total: NA
  male: NA
  female: NA (2008 est.)

Costa Rica
  total: 9.01 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 9.92 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 8.05 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  total: 69.76 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 77.06 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 62.25 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Croatia
  total: 6.49 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 6.51 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 6.46 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Cuba
  total: 5.93 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 6.64 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 5.17 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Cyprus
  total: 6.75 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 8.34 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 5.07 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Czech Republic
  total: 3.83 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 4.17 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 3.46 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Denmark
  total: 4.4 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 4.44 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 4.35 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Djibouti
  total: 99.13 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 106.65 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 91.38 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Dominica
  total: 14.12 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 19 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 9.01 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Dominican Republic
  total: 26.93 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 29.01 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 24.78 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Ecuador
  total: 21.35 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 25.61 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 16.88 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Egypt
  total: 28.36 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 30.06 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 26.57 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

El Salvador
  total: 22.19 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 25.06 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 19.18 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  total: 83.75 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 84.85 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 82.61 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Eritrea
  total: 44.34 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 50.09 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 38.42 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Estonia
  total: 7.45 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 8.62 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 6.21 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Ethiopia
  total: 82.64 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 94.08 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 70.87 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

European Union
  total: 6.38 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 7.23 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 5.49 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  total: NA
  male: NA
  female: NA (2008 est.)

Faroe Islands
  total: 6.46 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 6.69 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 6.2 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Fiji
  total: 11.88 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 13.07 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 10.63 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Finland
  total: 3.5 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 3.81 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 3.17 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

France
  total: 3.36 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 3.69 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 3.02 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

French Polynesia
  total: 7.7 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 8.84 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 6.5 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Gabon
  total: 52.65 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 61.27 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 43.77 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Gambia, The
  total: 68.72 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 75.07 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 62.18 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Gaza Strip
  total: 19 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 20.22 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 17.72 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Georgia
  total: 16.78 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 18.81 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 14.48 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Germany
  total: 4.03 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 4.46 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 3.58 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Ghana
  total: 52.31 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 56.64 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 47.85 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Gibraltar
  total: 4.91 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 5.46 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 4.33 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Greece
  total: 5.25 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 5.77 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 4.7 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Greenland
  total: 11.2 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 12.84 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 9.48 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Grenada
  total: 13.58 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 13.25 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 13.91 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Guam
  total: 6.55 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 7.22 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 5.84 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Guatemala
  total: 28.79 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 31.21 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 26.24 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Guernsey
  total: 4.53 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 5.05 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 3.98 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Guinea
  total: 67.41 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 71.02 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 63.69 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  total: 101.64 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 111.74 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 91.25 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Guyana
  total: 30.43 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 33.87 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 26.82 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Haiti
  total: 62.33 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 66.88 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 57.64 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Honduras
  total: 24.61 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 27.63 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 21.43 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Hong Kong
  total: 2.93 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 3.11 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 2.73 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Hungary
  total: 8.03 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 8.74 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 7.29 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Iceland
  total: 3.25 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 3.39 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 3.1 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

India
  total: 32.31 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 36.94 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 27.12 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Indonesia
  total: 31.04 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 36.14 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 25.68 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Iran
  total: 36.93 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 37.12 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 36.73 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Iraq
  total: 45.43 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 51.06 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 39.53 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Ireland
  total: 5.14 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 5.63 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 4.61 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Isle of Man
  total: 5.62 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 6.55 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 4.64 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Israel
  total: 4.28 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 4.43 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 4.12 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Italy
  total: 5.61 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 6.19 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 5 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Jamaica
  total: 15.57 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 16.19 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 14.92 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Japan
  total: 2.8 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 3 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 2.58 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Jersey
  total: 5.01 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 5.36 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 4.63 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Jordan
  total: 15.57 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 18.62 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 12.34 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Kazakhstan
  total: 26.56 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 31.03 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 21.83 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Kenya
  total: 56.01 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 58.95 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 53.02 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Kiribati
  total: 44.69 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 49.61 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 39.53 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Korea, North
  total: 21.86 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 23.46 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 20.18 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Korea, South
  total: 4.29 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 4.52 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 4.04 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Kuwait
  total: 9.22 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 10.2 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 8.21 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  total: 32.3 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 37.33 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 27 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Laos
  total: 79.61 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 88.9 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 69.88 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Latvia
  total: 8.96 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 10.85 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 6.97 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Lebanon
  total: 22.59 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 25.08 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 19.97 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Lesotho
  total: 78.59 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 83.01 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 74.03 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Liberia
  total: 143.89 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 159.5 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 127.81 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Libya
  total: 21.94 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 24.14 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 19.63 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Liechtenstein
  total: 4.52 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 6.03 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 3 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Lithuania
  total: 6.57 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 7.86 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 5.21 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Luxembourg
  total: 4.62 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 4.62 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 4.62 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Macau
  total: 3.23 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 3.39 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 3.07 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Macedonia
  total: 9.27 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 9.45 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 9.08 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Madagascar
  total: 55.59 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 60.59 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 50.45 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Malawi
  total: 90.55 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 94.69 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 86.35 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Malaysia
  total: 16.39 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 18.92 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 13.68 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Maldives
  total: 30.63 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 33.15 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 27.98 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Mali
  total: 103.83 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 113.41 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 93.97 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Malta
  total: 3.79 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 4.25 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 3.3 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Marshall Islands
  total: 26.36 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 29.58 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 22.98 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Mauritania
  total: 66.65 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 69.69 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 63.52 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Mauritius
  total: 12.56 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 14.94 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 10.06 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Mayotte
  total: 57.88 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 63.59 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 52 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Mexico
  total: 19.01 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 20.91 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 17.02 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  total: 27.03 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 29.8 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 24.13 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Moldova
  total: 13.5 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 14.95 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 11.96 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Monaco
  total: 5.18 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 6 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 4.33 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Mongolia
  total: 41.24 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 44.41 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 37.92 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Montserrat
  total: 16.46 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 12.19 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 20.93 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Morocco
  total: 38.22 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 41.74 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 34.53 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Mozambique
  total: 107.84 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 110.67 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 104.97 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Namibia
  total: 45.64 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 49.24 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 41.93 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Nauru
  total: 9.43 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 11.84 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 6.9 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Nepal
  total: 62 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 60.18 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 63.91 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Netherlands
  total: 4.81 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 5.34 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 4.25 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  total: 9.36 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 10.04 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 8.64 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

New Caledonia
  total: 7.19 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 7.85 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 6.5 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

New Zealand
  total: 4.99 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 5.62 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 4.33 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Nicaragua
  total: 25.91 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 29.06 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 22.6 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Niger
  total: 115.42 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 119.3 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 111.42 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Nigeria
  total: 95.74 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 101.83 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 89.28 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Niue
  total: NA
  male: NA
  female: NA (2008 est.)

Norfolk Island
  total: NA
  male: NA
  female: NA (2008 est.)

Northern Mariana Islands
  total: 6.72 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 6.68 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 6.76 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Norway
  total: 3.61 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 3.96 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 3.24 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Oman
  total: 17.45 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 19.95 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 14.83 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Pakistan
  total: 66.94 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 67.04 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 66.84 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Palau
  total: 13.69 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 15.37 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 11.9 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Panama
  total: 13.4 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 14.35 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 12.42 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  total: 46.67 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 50.68 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 42.47 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Paraguay
  total: 25.55 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 29.74 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 21.16 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Peru
  total: 29.53 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 32.02 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 26.93 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Philippines
  total: 21.2 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 23.86 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 18.42 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Pitcairn Islands
  total: NA
  male: NA
  female: NA (2008 est.)

Poland
  total: 6.93 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 7.66 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 6.17 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Portugal
  total: 4.85 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 5.31 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 4.36 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Puerto Rico
  total: 8.65 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 9.15 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 8.13 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Qatar
  total: 13.09 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 13.99 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 12.13 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Romania
  total: 23.73 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 26.81 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 20.46 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Russia
  total: 10.81 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 12.34 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 9.18 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Rwanda
  total: 83.42 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 88.53 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 78.16 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Saint Helena
  total: 18.31 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 21.47 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 14.98 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  total: 14.34 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 16.09 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 12.48 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Saint Lucia
  total: 13.8 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 12.75 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 14.9 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  total: 7.04 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 8.06 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 5.96 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  total: 13.62 deaths/1,000 live
  births
  male: 14.83 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 12.36 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Samoa
  total: 25.04 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 29.56 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 20.29 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

San Marino
  total: 5.44 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 5.86 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 4.98 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe
  total: 38.36 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 40.11 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 36.55 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  total: 11.94 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 13.58 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 10.23 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Senegal
  total: 58.93 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 62.79 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 54.96 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Seychelles
  total: 14.36 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 18.18 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 10.42 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Sierra Leone
  total: 156.48 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 173.59 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 138.85 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Singapore
  total: 2.3 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 2.51 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 2.08 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Slovakia
  total: 6.98 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 8.15 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 5.75 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Slovenia
  total: 4.3 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 4.87 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 3.69 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Solomon Islands
  total: 19.67 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 22.36 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 16.84 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Somalia
  total: 110.97 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 120.17 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 101.5 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

South Africa
  total: 45.11 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 49.47 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 40.65 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Spain
  total: 4.26 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 4.65 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 3.85 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Sri Lanka
  total: 19.01 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 20.76 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 17.17 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Sudan
  total: 86.98 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 87.09 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 86.86 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Suriname
  total: 19.45 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 22.96 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 15.71 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Svalbard
  total: NA
  male: NA
  female: NA (2008 est.)

Swaziland
  total: 69.59 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 72.87 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 66.2 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Sweden
  total: 2.75 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 2.91 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 2.58 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Switzerland
  total: 4.23 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 4.71 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 3.73 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Syria
  total: 26.78 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 27.04 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 26.52 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Taiwan
  total: 5.45 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 5.75 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 5.11 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Tajikistan
  total: 42.31 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 47.3 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 37.08 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Tanzania
  total: 70.46 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 77.51 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 63.19 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Thailand
  total: 18.23 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 19.5 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 16.89 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Timor-Leste
  total: 41.98 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 48.16 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 35.49 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Togo
  total: 57.66 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 65.01 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 50.09 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Tokelau
  total: NA
  male: NA
  female: NA (2008 est.)

Tonga
  total: 11.88 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 13.07 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 10.63 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  total: 23.59 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 25.34 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 21.76 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Tunisia
  total: 23.43 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 25.7 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 20.98 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Turkey
  total: 36.98 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 40.44 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 33.34 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Turkmenistan
  total: 51.81 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 56.01 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 47.4 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  total: 14.35 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 16.56 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 12.04 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Tuvalu
  total: 18.97 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 21.56 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 16.25 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Uganda
  total: 65.99 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 69.65 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 62.21 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Ukraine
  total: 9.23 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 11.48 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 6.85 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  total: 13.11 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 15.32 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 10.8 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

United Kingdom
  total: 4.93 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 5.49 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 4.34 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

United States
  total: 6.3 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 6.95 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 5.62 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Uruguay
  total: 11.66 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 13.1 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 10.17 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Uzbekistan
  total: 24.23 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 28.61 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 19.58 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Vanuatu
  total: 50.77 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 53.32 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 48.09 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Venezuela
  total: 22.02 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 25.61 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 18.26 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Vietnam
  total: 23.61 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 24.01 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 23.19 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Virgin Islands
  total: 7.72 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 8.43 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 6.96 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Wallis and Futuna
  total: NA
  male: NA
  female: NA (2008 est.)

West Bank
  total: 16.51 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 18.5 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 14.39 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Western Sahara
  total: 71.13 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 71.22 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 71.04 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

World
  total: 42.09 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 44.91 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 39.09 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Yemen
  total: 56.27 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 60.78 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 51.54 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Zambia
  total: 100.96 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 105.73 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 96.04 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

Zimbabwe
  total: 33.86 deaths/1,000 live births
  male: 36.5 deaths/1,000 live births
  female: 31.14 deaths/1,000 live births (2008 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2092  Inflation rate (consumer prices) (%)


Afghanistan
  13% (2007 est.)

Albania
  2.9% (2007 est.)

Algeria
  3.5% (2007 est.)

American Samoa
  NA%

Andorra
  3.2% (2005)

Angola
  12.2% (2007 est.)

Anguilla
  5.3% (2006 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  1.5% (2007 est.)

Argentina
  8.8% official rate; actual rate may be double the official
  rate (2007 est.)

Armenia
  4.4% (2007 est.)

Aruba
  3.4% (2005)

Australia
  2.3% (2007 est.)

Austria
  2.2% (2007 est.)

Azerbaijan
  16.7% (2007 est.)

Bahamas, The
  2.4% (2007 est.)

Bahrain
  3.3% (2007 est.)

Bangladesh
  9.1% (2007 est.)

Barbados
  5.5% (2007 est.)

Belarus
  8.4% (2007 est.)

Belgium
  1.8% (2007 est.)

Belize
  2.3% (2007 est.)

Benin
  1.3% (2007 est.)

Bermuda
  2.8% (November 2005)

Bhutan
  4.9% (2007 est.)

Bolivia
  8.7% (2007 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  1.6% (2007 est.)

Botswana
  7.1% (2007 est.)

Brazil
  3.6% (2007 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  2% (2005)

Brunei
  0.4% (2007 est.)

Bulgaria
  9.8% (2007 est.)

Burkina Faso
  -0.2% (2007 est.)

Burma
  35% (2007 est.)

Burundi
  8.3% (2007 est.)

Cambodia
  5.9% (2007 est.)

Cameroon
  1.1% (2007 est.)

Canada
  2.1% (2007 est.)

Cape Verde
  4.4% (2007 est.)

Cayman Islands
  4.4% (2004)

Central African Republic
  0.9% (2007 est.)

Chad
  4% (2007 est.)

Chile
  4.4% (2007 est.)

China
  4.8% (2007 est.)

Colombia
  5.5% (2007 est.)

Comoros
  3% (2007 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  16.7% (2007 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  2.7% (2007 est.)

Cook Islands
  2.1% (2005 est.)

Costa Rica
  9.4% (2007 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  1.9% (2007 est.)

Croatia
  4.5% (2007 est.)

Cuba
  3.1% (2007 est.)

Cyprus
  2.4% (2007 est.)

Czech Republic
  2.9% (2007 est.)

Denmark
  1.7% (2007 est.)

Djibouti
  5% (2007 est.)

Dominica
  2.7% (2007 est.)

Dominican Republic
  6.1% (2007 est.)

Ecuador
  2.3% (2007 est.)

Egypt
  9.5% (2007 est.)

El Salvador
  4.6% (2007 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  6% (2007 est.)

Eritrea
  17% (2007 est.)

Estonia
  6.6% (2007 est.)

Ethiopia
  17.2% (2007 est.)

European Union
  1.8% (2006 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  3.6% (1998)

Faroe Islands
  1.8% (2005)

Fiji
  4.8% (2007)

Finland
  2.5% (2007 est.)

France
  1.5% (2007 est.)

French Polynesia
  1.1% (2006 est.)

Gabon
  5% (2007 est.)

Gambia, The
  5.1% (2007 est.)

Gaza Strip
  3.6% (includes West Bank) (2006)

Georgia
  9.3% (2007 est.)

Germany
  2.3% (2007 est.)

Ghana
  10.7% (2007 est.)

Gibraltar
  2.9% (2005)

Greece
  2.9% (2007 est.)

Greenland
  1% (2005 est.)

Grenada
  3.7% (2007 est.)

Guam
  2.5% (2005 est.)

Guatemala
  6.8% (2007 est.)

Guernsey
  3.4% (June 2006)

Guinea
  23.4% (2007 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  3.8% (2007 est.)

Guyana
  12.3% (2007 est.)

Haiti
  8.5% (2007 est.)

Honduras
  6.9% (2007 est.)

Hong Kong
  2% (2007 est.)

Hungary
  8% (2007 est.)

Iceland
  5.1% (2007 est.)

India
  6.4% (2007 est.)

Indonesia
  6.3% (2007 est.)

Iran
  17.1% (2007 est.)

Iraq
  4.7% (2007 est.)

Ireland
  4.9% (2007 est.)

Isle of Man
  3.1% (December 2006 est.)

Israel
  0.5% (2007 est.)

Italy
  1.8% (2007 est.)

Jamaica
  9.5% (2007 est.)

Japan
  0.1% (2007 est.)

Jersey
  3.7% (December 2006)

Jordan
  5.4% (2007 est.)

Kazakhstan
  10.8% (2007 est.)

Kenya
  9.7% (2007 est.)

Kiribati
  0.2% (2007 est.)

Korea, North
  NA%

Korea, South
  2.5% (2007 est.)

Kosovo
  2% (2007 est.)

Kuwait
  5.5% (2007 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  10.2% (2007 est.)

Laos
  4.5% (2007 est.)

Latvia
  10.1% (2007 est.)

Lebanon
  4.2% (2007 est.)

Lesotho
  8% (2007 est.)

Liberia
  11.2% (2007 est.)

Libya
  6.3% (2007 est.)

Liechtenstein
  1% (2001)

Lithuania
  5.7% (2007 est.)

Luxembourg
  2.3% (2007 est.)

Macau
  7.2% (2006)

Macedonia
  2.3% (2007 est.)

Madagascar
  10.3% (2007 est.)

Malawi
  7.9% (2007 est.)

Malaysia
  2%
  note: approximately 30% of goods are price-controlled (2007 est.)

Maldives
  5% (2007 est.)

Mali
  2.5% (2007 est.)

Malta
  1.3% (2007 est.)

Marshall Islands
  3% (2005 est.)

Mauritania
  7.3% (2007 est.)

Mauritius
  8.8% (2007 est.)

Mayotte
  1.7% (2005)

Mexico
  4% (2007 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  2.2% (2005)

Moldova
  12.3% (2007 est.)

Monaco
  1.9% (2000)

Mongolia
  9% (2007)

Montenegro
  3.4% (2007)

Montserrat
  2.6% (2002 est.)

Morocco
  2% (2007 est.)

Mozambique
  8.2% (2007 est.)

Namibia
  6.7% (2007 est.)

Nauru
  -3.6% (1993)

Nepal
  6.4% (2007 est.)

Netherlands
  1.6% (2007 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  2.1% (2003 est.)

New Caledonia
  1.4% (2000 est.)

New Zealand
  2.4% (2007 est.)

Nicaragua
  11.1% (2007 est.)

Niger
  0.1% (2007 est.)

Nigeria
  5.4% (2007 est.)

Niue
  4% (2005)

Northern Mariana Islands
  -0.8% (2000)

Norway
  0.8% (2007 est.)

Oman
  5.9% (2007 est.)

Pakistan
  7.6% (2007 est.)

Palau
  2.7% (2005 est.)

Panama
  4.2% (2007 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  0.9% (2007 est.)

Paraguay
  8.1% (2007 est.)

Peru
  1.8% (2007 est.)

Philippines
  2.8% (2007 est.)

Poland
  2.5% (2007 est.)

Portugal
  2.4% (2007 est.)

Puerto Rico
  6.5% (2003 est.)

Qatar
  13.7% (2007 est.)

Romania
  4.8% (2007 est.)

Russia
  9% annual average
  note: 12% at year-end (2007 est.)

Rwanda
  9.1% (2007 est.)

Saint Helena
  3.2% (1997 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  4.5% (2007 est.)

Saint Lucia
  1.9% (2007 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  8.1% (2005)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  6.1% (2007 est.)

Samoa
  6% (2007 est.)

San Marino
  -1.5% (2006)

Sao Tome and Principe
  18% (2007 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  4.1% (2007 est.)

Senegal
  5.9% (2007 est.)

Serbia
  6.8% (2007)

Seychelles
  5.3% (2007 est.)

Sierra Leone
  11.7% (2007 est.)

Singapore
  2.1% (2007 est.)

Slovakia
  2.8% (2007 est.)

Slovenia
  3.6% (2007 est.)

Solomon Islands
  6.3% (2007 est.)

Somalia
  NA%; note - businesses print their own money, so inflation
  rates cannot be easily determined

South Africa
  6.5% (2007 est.)

Spain
  2.8% (2007 est.)

Sri Lanka
  15.8% (2007 est.)

Sudan
  8% (2007 est.)

Suriname
  6.4% (2007 est.)

Swaziland
  8.1% (2007 est.)

Sweden
  2.2% (2007 est.)

Switzerland
  0.7% (2007 est.)

Syria
  12.2% (2007 est.)

Taiwan
  1.8% (2007 est.)

Tajikistan
  13.1% (2007 est.)

Tanzania
  7% (2007 est.)

Thailand
  2.2% (2007 est.)

Timor-Leste
  7.8% (2007 est.)

Togo
  1% (2007 est.)

Tokelau
  NA%

Tonga
  5.9% (2007 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  7.9% (2007 est.)

Tunisia
  3.1% (2007 est.)

Turkey
  8.7% (2007 est.)

Turkmenistan
  11.3% (2007 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  4% (1995)

Tuvalu
  3.8% (2006 est.)

Uganda
  6.1% (2007 est.)

Ukraine
  12.8% (2007 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  14% (2007 est.)

United Kingdom
  2.3% (2007 est.)

United States
  2.9% (2007 est.)

Uruguay
  8.1% (2007 est.)

Uzbekistan
  12% officially, but 38% based on analysis of consumer
  prices (2007 est.)

Vanuatu
  3.9% (2007 est.)

Venezuela
  18.7% (2007 est.)

Vietnam
  8.3% (2007 est.)

Virgin Islands
  2.2% (2003)

Wallis and Futuna
  2.8% (2005)

West Bank
  3.6% (includes Gaza Strip) (2006)

Western Sahara
  NA%

World
  developed countries 1% to 4% typically; developing countries
  5% to 20% typically; national inflation rates vary widely in
  individual cases, from declining prices in Japan to hyperinflation
  in one Third World country (Zimbabwe); inflation rates have declined
  for most countries for the last several years, held in check by
  increasing international competition from several low wage countries
  (2005 est.)

Yemen
  10% (2007 est.)

Zambia
  10.6% (2007 est.)

Zimbabwe
  12,563% official data; private sector estimates are much
  higher (2007 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2093  Waterways (km)


Afghanistan
  1,200 km (chiefly Amu Darya, which handles vessels up to
  500 DWT) (2007)

Albania
  43 km (2007)

Angola
  1,300 km (2007)

Argentina
  11,000 km (2006)

Australia
  2,000 km (mainly used for recreation on Murray and
  Murray-Darling river systems) (2006)

Austria
  358 km (2007)

Bangladesh
  8,370 km
  note: includes up to 3,060 km main cargo routes; network reduced to
  5,200 km in dry season (2006)

Belarus
  2,500 km (use limited by location on perimeter of country
  and by shallowness) (2003)

Belgium
  2,043 km (1,528 km in regular commercial use) (2006)

Belize
  825 km (navigable only by small craft) (2007)

Benin
  150 km (on River Niger along northern border) (2005)

Bolivia
  10,000 km (commercially navigable) (2007)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  Sava River (northern border) open to shipping
  but use limited (2006)

Brazil
  50,000 km (most in areas remote from industry and population)
  (2007)

Brunei
  209 km (navigable by craft drawing less than 1.2 m) (2007)

Bulgaria
  470 km (2007)

Burma
  12,800 km (2007)

Burundi
  mainly on Lake Tanganyika (2005)

Cambodia
  2,400 km (mainly on Mekong River) (2005)

Cameroon
  navigation mainly on Benue River; limited during rainy
  season (2005)

Canada
  636 km
  note: Saint Lawrence Seaway of 3,769 km, including the Saint
  Lawrence River of 3,058 km, shared with United States (2007)

Central African Republic
  2,800 km (primarily on the Oubangui and
  Sangha rivers) (2006)

Chad
  Chari and Legone rivers are navigable only in wet season (2006)

China
  124,000 km navigable (2006)

Colombia
  18,000 km (2006)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  15,000 km (2005)

Congo, Republic of the
  1,125 km (commercially navigable on Congo and
  Oubanqui rivers) (2006)

Costa Rica
  730 km (seasonally navigable by small craft) (2007)

Cote d'Ivoire
  980 km (navigable rivers, canals, and numerous coastal
  lagoons) (2006)

Croatia
  785 km (2007)

Cuba
  240 km (2007)

Czech Republic
  664 km (principally on Elbe, Vltava, Oder, and other
  navigable rivers, lakes, and canals) (2006)

Denmark
  400 km (2007)

Ecuador
  1,500 km (most inaccessible) (2006)

Egypt
  3,500 km
  note: includes Nile River, Lake Nasser, Alexandria-Cairo Waterway,
  and numerous smaller canals in delta; Suez Canal (193.5 km including
  approaches) navigable by oceangoing vessels drawing up to 17.68 m
  (2006)

El Salvador
  Rio Lempa partially navigable for small craft (2007)

Estonia
  320 km (2006)

European Union
  52,332 km (2006)

Fiji
  203 km
  note: 122 km navigable by motorized craft and 200-metric-ton barges
  (2006)

Finland
  7,842 km
  note: includes Saimaa Canal system of 3,577 km; southern part leased
  from Russia (2006)

France
  metropolitan France: 8,500 km (1,686 km accessible to craft
  of 3,000 metric tons)
  French Guiana: 3,760 km (460 km navigable by small oceangoing
  vessels and coastal and river steamers, 3,300 km by native craft)
  (2006)

Gabon
  1,600 km (310 km on Ogooue River) (2007)

Gambia, The
  390 km (on River Gambia; small ocean-going vessels can
  reach 190 km) (2006)

Germany
  7,467 km
  note: Rhine River carries most goods; Main-Danube Canal links North
  Sea and Black Sea (2006)

Ghana
  1,293 km
  note: 168 km for launches and lighters on Volta, Ankobra, and Tano
  rivers; 1,125 km of arterial and feeder waterways on Lake Volta
  (2007)

Greece
  6 km
  note: Corinth Canal (6 km) crosses the Isthmus of Corinth; shortens
  sea voyage by 325 km (2007)

Guatemala
  990 km
  note: 260 km navigable year round; additional 730 km navigable
  during high-water season (2007)

Guinea
  1,300 km (navigable by shallow-draft native craft) (2005)

Guinea-Bissau
  rivers are navigable for some distance; many inlets
  and creeks give shallow-water access to much of interior (2007)

Guyana
  Berbice, Demerara, and Essequibo rivers are navigable by
  oceangoing vessels for 150 km, 100 km, and 80 km respectively (2006)

Honduras
  465 km (most navigable only by small craft) (2007)

Hungary
  1,622 km (most on Danube River) (2007)

India
  14,500 km
  note: 5,200 km on major rivers and 485 km on canals suitable for
  mechanized vessels (2006)

Indonesia
  21,579 km (2007)

Iran
  850 km (on Karun River; additional service on Lake Urmia) (2006)

Iraq
  5,279 km
  note: Euphrates River (2,815 km), Tigris River (1,899 km), and Third
  River (565 km) are principal waterways (2006)

Ireland
  956 km (pleasure craft only) (2007)

Italy
  2,400 km
  note: used for commercial traffic; of limited overall value compared
  to road and rail (2006)

Japan
  1,770 km (seagoing vessels use inland seas) (2007)

Kazakhstan
  4,000 km (on the Ertis ((Irtysh)) River (80%) and Syr
  Darya ((Syrdariya)) River) (2006)

Kenya
  part of Lake Victoria system is within boundaries of Kenya
  (2006)

Kiribati
  5 km (small network of canals in Line Islands) (2007)

Korea, North
  2,250 km (most navigable only by small craft) (2007)

Korea, South
  1,608 km (most navigable only by small craft) (2007)

Kyrgyzstan
  600 km (2007)

Laos
  4,600 km
  note: primarily Mekong and tributaries; 2,900 additional km are
  intermittently navigable by craft drawing less than 0.5 m (2007)

Latvia
  300 km (2006)

Liechtenstein
  28 km (2006)

Lithuania
  441 km (2006)

Luxembourg
  37 km (on Moselle River) (2007)

Madagascar
  600 km (2006)

Malawi
  700 km (on Lake Nyasa (Lake Malawi) and Shire River) (2007)

Malaysia
  7,200 km
  note: Peninsular Malaysia 3,200 km; Sabah 1,500 km; Sarawak 2,500 km
  (2005)

Mali
  1,800 km (2007)

Mexico
  2,900 km (navigable rivers and coastal canals) (2007)

Moldova
  424 km (on Dniester and Prut rivers) (2007)

Mongolia
  580 km
  note: only waterway in operation is Lake Hovsgol (135 km); Selenge
  River (270 km) and Orhon River (175 km) are navigable but carry
  little traffic; lakes and rivers freeze in winter, are open from May
  to September (2004)

Mozambique
  460 km (Zambezi River navigable to Tete and along Cahora
  Bassa Lake) (2007)

Netherlands
  6,211 km (navigable for ships of 50 tons) (2006)

Nicaragua
  2,220 km (including lakes Managua and Nicaragua) (2007)

Niger
  300 km (the Niger, the only major river, is navigable to Gaya
  between September and March) (2005)

Nigeria
  8,600 km (Niger and Benue rivers and smaller rivers and
  creeks) (2007)

Norway
  1,577 km (2007)

Panama
  800 km (includes 82 km Panama Canal) (2007)

Papua New Guinea
  11,000 km (2006)

Paraguay
  3,100 km (2007)

Peru
  8,808 km
  note: 8,600 km of navigable tributaries of Amazon system and 208 km
  of Lago Titicaca (2007)

Philippines
  3,219 km (limited to vessels with draft less than 1.5 m)
  (2007)

Poland
  3,997 km (navigable rivers and canals) (2006)

Portugal
  210 km (on Douro River from Porto) (2006)

Romania
  1,731 km
  note: includes 1,075 km on Danube River, 524 km on secondary
  branches, and 132 km on canals (2006)

Russia
  102,000 km (including 33,000 km with guaranteed depth)
  note: 72,000 km system in European Russia links Baltic Sea, White
  Sea, Caspian Sea, Sea of Azov, and Black Sea (2006)

Rwanda
  Lac Kivu navigable by shallow-draft barges and native craft
  (2006)

Senegal
  1,000 km (primarily on Senegal, Saloum, and Casamance
  rivers) (2005)

Serbia
  587 km (primarily on Danube and Sava rivers) (2005)

Sierra Leone
  800 km (600 km year round) (2005)

Slovakia
  172 km (on Danube River) (2005)

Spain
  1,000 km (2003)

Sri Lanka
  160 km (primarily on rivers in southwest) (2006)

Sudan
  4,068 km (1,723 km open year round on White and Blue Nile
  rivers) (2006)

Suriname
  1,200 km (most navigable by ships with drafts up to 7 m)
  (2005)

Sweden
  2,052 km (2005)

Switzerland
  65 km (Rhine River between Basel-Rheinfelden and
  Schaffhausen-Bodensee) (2003)

Syria
  900 km (not economically significant) (2005)

Tajikistan
  200 km (along Vakhsh River) (2006)

Tanzania
  Lake Tanganyika, Lake Victoria, and Lake Nyasa principal
  avenues of commerce with neighboring countries; rivers not navigable
  (2005)

Thailand
  4,000 km
  note: 3,701 km navigable by boats with drafts up to 0.9 m (2005)

Togo
  50 km (seasonally on Mono River depending on rainfall) (2005)

Turkey
  1,200 km (2005)

Turkmenistan
  1,300 km (Amu Darya and Kara Kum canal important inland
  waterways) (2006)

Uganda
  on Lake Victoria, 200 km on Lake Albert, Lake Kyoga, and
  parts of Albert Nile (2005)

Ukraine
  2,253 km (most on Dnieper River) (2006)

United Kingdom
  3,200 km (620 km used for commerce) (2003)

United States
  41,009 km (19,312 km used for commerce)
  note: Saint Lawrence Seaway of 3,769 km, including the Saint
  Lawrence River of 3,058 km, shared with Canada (2007)

Uruguay
  1,600 km (2005)

Uzbekistan
  1,100 km (2006)

Venezuela
  7,100 km
  note: Orinoco River (400 km) and Lake de Maracaibo navigable by
  oceangoing vessels (2005)

Vietnam
  17,702 km (5,000 km navigable by vessels up to 1.8 m draft)
  (2005)

World
  671,886 km (2004)

Zambia
  2,250 km (includes Lake Tanganyika and the Zambezi and
  Luapula rivers) (2005)

Zimbabwe
  on Lake Kariba (2005)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2094  Judicial branch


Afghanistan
  the constitution establishes a nine-member Stera Mahkama
  or Supreme Court (its nine justices are appointed for 10-year terms
  by the president with approval of the Wolesi Jirga) and subordinate
  High Courts and Appeals Courts; there is also a minister of justice;
  a separate Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission established by
  the Bonn Agreement is charged with investigating human rights abuses
  and war crimes

Albania
  Constitutional Court, Supreme Court (chairman is elected by
  the People's Assembly for a four-year term), and multiple appeals
  and district courts

Algeria
  Supreme Court

American Samoa
  High Court (chief justice and associate justices are
  appointed by the US Secretary of the Interior)

Andorra
  Tribunal of Judges or Tribunal de Batlles; Tribunal of the
  Courts or Tribunal de Corts; Supreme Court of Justice of Andorra or
  Tribunal Superior de Justicia d'Andorra; Supreme Council of Justice
  or Consell Superior de la Justicia; Fiscal Ministry or Ministeri
  Fiscal; Constitutional Tribunal or Tribunal Constitucional

Angola
  Supreme Court and separate provincial courts (judges are
  appointed by the president)

Anguilla
  High Court (judge provided by Eastern Caribbean Supreme
  Court)

Antigua and Barbuda
  Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court (based in Saint
  Lucia; one judge of the Supreme Court is a resident of the islands
  and presides over the Court of Summary Jurisdiction); member
  Caribbean Court of Justice

Argentina
  Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (the nine Supreme Court
  judges are appointed by the president with approval of the Senate)
  note: the Supreme Court currently has two unfilled vacancies, and
  the Argentine Congress is considering a bill to reduce the number of
  Supreme Court judges to five

Armenia
  Constitutional Court; Court of Cassation (Appeals Court)

Aruba
  Common Court of Justice of Aruba (judges are appointed by the
  monarch)

Australia
  High Court (the chief justice and six other justices are
  appointed by the governor general)

Austria
  Supreme Judicial Court or Oberster Gerichtshof;
  Administrative Court or Verwaltungsgerichtshof; Constitutional Court
  or Verfassungsgerichtshof

Azerbaijan
  Supreme Court

Bahamas, The
  Privy Council in London; Courts of Appeal; Supreme
  (lower) Court; Magistrates' Courts

Bahrain
  High Civil Appeals Court

Bangladesh
  Supreme Court (the chief justices and other judges are
  appointed by the president)

Barbados
  Supreme Court of Judicature (judges are appointed by the
  Service Commissions for the Judicial and Legal Services); Caribbean
  Court of Justice is the highest court of appeal

Belarus
  Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the president);
  Constitutional Court (half of the judges appointed by the president
  and half appointed by the Chamber of Representatives)

Belgium
  Supreme Court of Justice or Hof van Cassatie (in Dutch) or
  Cour de Cassation (in French) (judges are appointed for life by the
  government; candidacies have to be submitted by the High Justice
  Council)

Belize
  Supreme Court of Judicature (the chief justice is appointed
  by the governor general on the advice of the prime minister); Court
  of Appeal

Benin
  Constitutional Court or Cour Constitutionnelle; Supreme Court
  or Cour Supreme; High Court of Justice

Bermuda
  Supreme Court; Court of Appeal; Magistrate Courts

Bhutan
  Supreme Court of Appeal (the monarch); High Court (judges
  appointed by the monarch); note - the draft constitution establishes
  a Supreme Court, which will serve as chief court of appeal

Bolivia
  Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (judges appointed for 10-year
  terms by National Congress); District Courts (one in each
  department); provincial and local courts (to try minor cases);
  Constitutional Tribunal (five primary or titulares and five
  alternate or suplente magistrates appointed by Congress; to rule on
  constitutional issues); National Electoral Court (six members
  elected by Congress, Supreme Court, the President, and the political
  party with the highest vote in the last election for 4-year terms)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  BH Constitutional Court (consists of nine
  members: four members are selected by the Bosniak/Croat Federation's
  House of Representatives, two members by the Republika Srpska's
  National Assembly, and three non-Bosnian members by the president of
  the European Court of Human Rights); BH State Court (consists of
  nine judges and three divisions - Administrative, Appellate and
  Criminal - having jurisdiction over cases related to state-level law
  and appellate jurisdiction over cases initiated in the entities); a
  War Crimes Chamber opened in March 2005
  note: the entities each have a Supreme Court; each entity also has a
  number of lower courts; there are 10 cantonal courts in the
  Federation, plus a number of municipal courts; the Republika Srpska
  has five municipal courts

Botswana
  High Court; Court of Appeal; Magistrates' Courts (one in
  each district)

Brazil
  Supreme Federal Tribunal or STF (11 ministers are appointed
  for life by the president and confirmed by the Senate); Higher
  Tribunal of Justice; Regional Federal Tribunals (judges are
  appointed for life); note - though appointed "for life," judges,
  like all federal employees, have a mandatory retirement age of 70

British Virgin Islands
  Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court, consisting
  of the High Court of Justice and the Court of Appeal (one judge of
  the Supreme Court is a resident of the islands and presides over the
  High Court); Magistrate's Court; Juvenile Court; Court of Summary
  Jurisdiction

Brunei
  Supreme Court - chief justice and judges are sworn in by
  monarch for three-year terms; Judicial Committee of Privy Council in
  London is final court of appeal for civil cases; Sharia courts deal
  with Islamic laws (2006)

Bulgaria
  Supreme Administrative Court; Supreme Court of Cassation;
  Constitutional Court (12 justices appointed or elected for nine-year
  terms); Supreme Judicial Council (consists of the chairmen of the
  two Supreme Courts, the Chief Prosecutor, and 22 other members;
  responsible for appointing the justices, prosecutors, and
  investigating magistrates in the justice system; members of the
  Supreme Judicial Council elected for five-year terms, 11 elected by
  the National Assembly and 11 by bodies of the judiciary)

Burkina Faso
  Supreme Court; Appeals Court

Burma
  remnants of the British-era legal system are in place, but
  there is no guarantee of a fair public trial; the judiciary is not
  independent of the executive

Burundi
  Supreme Court or Cour Supreme; Constitutional Court; High
  Court of Justice (composed of the Supreme Court and the
  Constitutional Court)

Cambodia
  Supreme Council of the Magistracy (provided for in the
  constitution and formed in December 1997); Supreme Court (and lower
  courts) exercises judicial authority

Cameroon
  Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the president); High
  Court of Justice (consists of nine judges and six substitute judges,
  elected by the National Assembly)

Canada
  Supreme Court of Canada (judges are appointed by the prime
  minister through the governor general); Federal Court of Canada;
  Federal Court of Appeal; Provincial Courts (these are named
  variously Court of Appeal, Court of Queens Bench, Superior Court,
  Supreme Court, and Court of Justice)

Cape Verde
  Supreme Tribunal of Justice or Supremo Tribunal de Justia

Cayman Islands
  Summary Court; Grand Court; Cayman Islands Court of
  Appeal

Central African Republic
  Supreme Court or Cour Supreme;
  Constitutional Court (3 judges appointed by the president, 3 by the
  president of the National Assembly, and 3 by fellow judges); Court
  of Appeal; Criminal Courts; Inferior Courts

Chad
  Supreme Court; Court of Appeal; Criminal Courts; Magistrate
  Courts

Chile
  Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (judges are appointed by the
  president and ratified by the Senate from lists of candidates
  provided by the court itself; the president of the Supreme Court is
  elected every three years by the 20-member court); Constitutional
  Tribunal

China
  Supreme People's Court (judges appointed by the National
  People's Congress); Local People's Courts (comprise higher,
  intermediate, and basic courts); Special People's Courts (primarily
  military, maritime, railway transportation, and forestry courts)

Christmas Island
  Supreme Court; District Court; Magistrate's Court

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  Supreme Court; Magistrate's Court

Colombia
  four roughly coequal, supreme judicial organs; Supreme
  Court of Justice or Corte Suprema de Justicia (highest court of
  criminal law; judges are selected by their peers from the nominees
  of the Superior Judicial Council for eight-year terms); Council of
  State (highest court of administrative law; judges are selected from
  the nominees of the Superior Judicial Council for eight-year terms);
  Constitutional Court (guards integrity and supremacy of the
  constitution; rules on constitutionality of laws, amendments to the
  constitution, and international treaties); Superior Judicial Council
  (administers and disciplines the civilian judiciary; resolves
  jurisdictional conflicts arising between other courts; members are
  elected by three sister courts and Congress for eight-year terms)

Comoros
  Supreme Court or Cour Supremes (two members appointed by the
  president, two members elected by the Federal Assembly, one elected
  by the Council of each island, and others are former presidents of
  the republic)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  Constitutional Court; Appeals
  Court or Cour de Cassation; Council of State; High Military Court;
  plus civil and military courts and tribunals

Congo, Republic of the
  Supreme Court or Cour Supreme

Cook Islands
  High Court

Costa Rica
  Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (22 justices are elected
  for renewable eight-year terms by the Legislative Assembly)

Cote d'Ivoire
  Supreme Court or Cour Supreme consists of four
  chambers: Judicial Chamber for criminal cases, Audit Chamber for
  financial cases, Constitutional Chamber for judicial review cases,
  and Administrative Chamber for civil cases; there is no legal limit
  to the number of members

Croatia
  Supreme Court; Constitutional Court; judges for both courts
  appointed for eight-year terms by the Judicial Council of the
  Republic, which is elected by the Assembly

Cuba
  People's Supreme Court or Tribunal Supremo Popular (president,
  vice president, and other judges are elected by the National
  Assembly)

Cyprus
  Supreme Court (judges are appointed jointly by the president
  and vice president)
  note: there is also a Supreme Court in the area administered by
  Turkish Cypriots

Czech Republic
  Supreme Court; Constitutional Court; chairman and
  deputy chairmen are appointed by the president for a 10-year term

Denmark
  Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the monarch for life)

Djibouti
  Supreme Court or Cour Supreme

Dominica
  Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court, consisting of the Court of
  Appeal and the High Court (located in Saint Lucia; one of the six
  judges must reside in Dominica and preside over the Court of Summary
  Jurisdiction)

Dominican Republic
  Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (judges are
  appointed by the National Judicial Council comprised of the
  president, the leaders of both chambers of congress, the president
  of the Supreme Court, and an additional non-governing party
  congressional representative)

Ecuador
  Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (according to the
  Constitution, new justices are elected by the full Supreme Court; in
  December 2004, however, Congress successfully replaced the entire
  court via a simple-majority resolution)

Egypt
  Supreme Constitutional Court

El Salvador
  Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (15 judges are selected
  by the Legislative Assembly; the 15 judges are assigned to four
  Supreme Court chambers - constitutional, civil, penal, and
  administrative conflict)

Equatorial Guinea
  Supreme Tribunal

Eritrea
  High Court - regional, subregional, and village courts; also
  have military and special courts

Estonia
  National Court (chairman appointed by Parliament for life)

Ethiopia
  Federal Supreme Court (the president and vice president of
  the Federal Supreme Court are recommended by the prime minister and
  appointed by the House of People's Representatives; for other
  federal judges, the prime minister submits to the House of People's
  Representatives for appointment candidates selected by the Federal
  Judicial Administrative Council)

European Union
  Court of Justice of the European Communities (ensures
  that the treaties are interpreted and applied uniformly throughout
  the EU; resolve constitutional issues among the EU institutions) -
  27 justices (one from each member state) appointed for a six-year
  term; note - for the sake of efficiency, the court can sit with 13
  justices known as the "Grand Chamber"; Court of First Instance - 27
  justices appointed for a six-year term

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  Supreme Court (chief justice is a
  nonresident); Magistrates Court (senior magistrate presides over
  civil and criminal divisions); Court of Summary Jurisdiction

Faroe Islands
  none

Fiji
  Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the president); Court of
  Appeal; High Court; Magistrates' Courts

Finland
  Supreme Court or Korkein Oikeus (judges appointed by the
  president)

France
  Supreme Court of Appeals or Cour de Cassation (judges are
  appointed by the president from nominations of the High Council of
  the Judiciary); Constitutional Council or Conseil Constitutionnel
  (three members appointed by the president, three appointed by the
  president of the National Assembly, and three appointed by the
  president of the Senate); Council of State or Conseil d'Etat

French Polynesia
  Court of Appeal or Cour d'Appel; Court of the First
  Instance or Tribunal de Premiere Instance; Court of Administrative
  Law or Tribunal Administratif

Gabon
  Supreme Court or Cour Supreme consisting of three chambers -
  Judicial, Administrative, and Accounts; Constitutional Court; Courts
  of Appeal; Court of State Security; County Courts

Gambia, The
  Supreme Court

Georgia
  Supreme Court (judges elected by the Supreme Council on the
  president's or chairman of the Supreme Court's recommendation);
  Constitutional Court; first and second instance courts

Germany
  Federal Constitutional Court or Bundesverfassungsgericht
  (half the judges are elected by the Bundestag and half by the
  Bundesrat)

Ghana
  Supreme Court

Gibraltar
  Supreme Court; Court of Appeal

Greece
  Supreme Judicial Court; Special Supreme Tribunal; all judges
  appointed for life by the president after consultation with a
  judicial council

Greenland
  High Court or Landsret (appeals can be made to the Ostre
  Landsret or Eastern Division of the High Court or Supreme Court in
  Copenhagen)

Grenada
  Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court, consisting of a court of
  Appeal and a High Court of Justice (a High Court judge is assigned
  to and resides in Grenada)

Guam
  Federal District Court (judge is appointed by the president);
  Territorial Superior Court (judges appointed for eight-year terms by
  the governor)

Guatemala
  Constitutional Court or Corte de Constitucionalidad is
  Guatemala's highest court (five judges are elected for concurrent
  five-year terms); Supreme Court of Justice or Corte Suprema de
  Justicia (13 members serve concurrent five-year terms and elect a
  president of the Court each year from among their number; the
  president of the Supreme Court of Justice also supervises trial
  judges around the country, who are named to five-year terms)

Guernsey
  Royal Court (judges elected by an electoral college and the
  bailiff)

Guinea
  Court of First Instance or Tribunal de Premiere Instance;
  Court of Appeal or Cour d'Appel; Supreme Court or Cour Supreme

Guinea-Bissau
  Supreme Court or Supremo Tribunal da Justica (consists
  of nine justices appointed by the president and serve at his
  pleasure; final court of appeals in criminal and civil cases);
  Regional Courts (one in each of nine regions; first court of appeals
  for Sectoral Court decisions; hear all felony cases and civil cases
  valued at more than $1,000); 24 Sectoral Courts (judges are not
  necessarily trained lawyers; they hear civil cases valued at less
  than $1,000 and misdemeanor criminal cases)

Guyana
  Supreme Court of Judicature, consisting of the High Court and
  the Judicial Court of Appeal, with right of final appeal to the
  Caribbean Court of Justice

Haiti
  Supreme Court or Cour de Cassation

Holy See (Vatican City)
  there are three tribunals responsible for
  civil and criminal matters within Vatican City; three other
  tribunals rule on issues pertaining to the Holy See
  note: judicial duties were established by the Motu Proprio of Pope
  PIUS XII on 1 May 1946

Honduras
  Supreme Court of Justice or Corte Suprema de Justicia (15
  judges are elected for seven-year terms by the National Congress)

Hong Kong
  Court of Final Appeal in the Hong Kong Special
  Administrative Region

Hungary
  Constitutional Court (judges are elected by the National
  Assembly for nine-year terms)

Iceland
  Supreme Court or Haestirettur (justices are appointed for
  life by the Minister of Justice); eight district courts (justices
  are appointed for life by the Minister of Justice)

India
  Supreme Court (one chief justice and 25 associate justices are
  appointed by the president and remain in office until they reach the
  age of 65 or are removed for "proved misbehavior")

Indonesia
  Supreme Court or Mahkamah Agung (justices appointed by the
  president from a list of candidates selected by the legislature); a
  separate Constitutional Court or Mahkamah Konstitusi was invested by
  the president on 16 August 2003; in March 2004 the Supreme Court
  assumed administrative and financial responsibility for the lower
  court system from the Ministry of Justice and Human Rights; Labor
  Court under supervision of Supreme Court began functioning in
  January 2006

Iran
  The Supreme Court (Qeveh Qazaieh) and the four-member High
  Council of the Judiciary have a single head and overlapping
  responsibilities; together they supervise the enforcement of all
  laws and establish judicial and legal policies; lower courts include
  a special clerical court, a revolutionary court, and a special
  administrative court

Iraq
  the Iraq Constitution calls for the federal judicial power to
  be comprised of the Higher Juridical Council, Federal Supreme Court,
  Federal Court of Cassation, Public Prosecution Department, Judiciary
  Oversight Commission and other federal courts that are regulated in
  accordance with the law

Ireland
  Supreme Court (judges appointed by the president on the
  advice of the prime minister and cabinet)

Isle of Man
  High Court of Justice (justices are appointed by the
  Lord Chancellor of England on the nomination of the lieutenant
  governor)

Israel
  Supreme Court (justices appointed by Judicial Selection
  Committee - made up of all three branches of the government;
  mandatory retirement age is 70)

Italy
  Constitutional Court or Corte Costituzionale (composed of 15
  judges: one-third appointed by the president, one-third elected by
  parliament, one-third elected by the ordinary and administrative
  Supreme Courts)

Jamaica
  Supreme Court (judges appointed by the governor general on
  the advice of the prime minister); Court of Appeal

Japan
  Supreme Court (chief justice is appointed by the monarch after
  designation by the cabinet; all other justices are appointed by the
  cabinet)

Jersey
  Royal Court (judges elected by an electoral college and the
  bailiff)

Jordan
  Court of Cassation; Supreme Court (court of final appeal)

Kazakhstan
  Supreme Court (44 members); Constitutional Council (7
  members)

Kenya
  Court of Appeal (chief justice is appointed by the president);
  High Court

Kiribati
  Court of Appeal; High Court; 26 Magistrates' courts; judges
  at all levels are appointed by the president

Korea, North
  Central Court (judges are elected by the Supreme
  People's Assembly)

Korea, South
  Supreme Court (justices appointed by the president with
  consent of National Assembly); Constitutional Court (justices
  appointed by the president based partly on nominations by National
  Assembly and Chief Justice of the court)

Kosovo
  Supreme Court judges are appointed by the Special
  Representative of the Secretary-General (SRSG); district courts
  judges are appointed by the SRSG; municipal courts judges are
  appointed by the SRSG
  note: after the termination of UNMIK's mandate, the Kosovo Judicial
  Council (KJC) will propose to the president candidates for
  appointment or reappointment as judges and prosecutors; the KJC is
  also responsible for decisions on the promotion and transfer of
  judges and disciplinary proceedings against judges; at least 15% of
  Supreme Court and district court judges shall be from nonmajority
  communities

Kuwait
  High Court of Appeal

Kyrgyzstan
  Supreme Court; Constitutional Court (judges of both the
  Supreme and Constitutional Courts are appointed for 10-year terms by
  the Jorgorku Kengesh on the recommendation of the president; their
  mandatory retirement age is 70 years); Higher Court of Arbitration;
  Local Courts (judges appointed by the president on the
  recommendation of the National Council on Legal Affairs for a
  probationary period of five years, then 10 years)

Laos
  People's Supreme Court (the president of the People's Supreme
  Court is elected by the National Assembly on the recommendation of
  the National Assembly Standing Committee; the vice president of the
  People's Supreme Court and the judges are appointed by the National
  Assembly Standing Committee)

Latvia
  Supreme Court (judges' appointments are confirmed by
  Parliament); Constitutional Court (judges' appointments are
  confirmed by Parliament)

Lebanon
  four Courts of Cassation (three courts for civil and
  commercial cases and one court for criminal cases); Constitutional
  Council (called for in Ta'if Accord - rules on constitutionality of
  laws); Supreme Council (hears charges against the president and
  prime minister as needed)

Lesotho
  High Court (chief justice appointed by the monarch acting on
  the advice of the Prime Minister); Court of Appeal; Magistrate
  Courts; customary or traditional court

Liberia
  Supreme Court

Libya
  Supreme Court

Liechtenstein
  Supreme Court or Oberster Gerichtshof; Court of Appeal
  or Obergericht

Lithuania
  Constitutional Court; Supreme Court; Court of Appeal;
  judges for all courts appointed by the president

Luxembourg
  judicial courts and tribunals (3 Justices of the Peace, 2
  district courts, and 1 Supreme Court of Appeals); administrative
  courts and tribunals (State Prosecutor's Office, administrative
  courts and tribunals, and the Constitutional Court); judges for all
  courts are appointed for life by the monarch

Macau
  Court of Final Appeal in Macau Special Administrative Region

Macedonia
  Supreme Court - the Assembly appoints the judges;
  Constitutional Court - the Assembly appoints the judges; Republican
  Judicial Council - the Assembly appoints the judges

Madagascar
  Supreme Court or Cour Supreme; High Constitutional Court
  or Haute Cour Constitutionnelle

Malawi
  Supreme Court of Appeal; High Court (chief justice appointed
  by the president, puisne judges appointed on the advice of the
  Judicial Service Commission); magistrate's courts

Malaysia
  Civil Courts include Federal Court, Court of Appeal, High
  Court of Malaya on peninsula Malaysia, and High Court of Sabah and
  Sarawak in states of Borneo (judges appointed by the paramount ruler
  on the advice of the prime minister); Sharia Courts include Sharia
  Appeal Court, Sharia High Court, and Sharia Subordinate Courts at
  state-level and deal with religious and family matters such as
  custody, divorce, and inheritance, only for Muslims; decisions of
  Sharia courts cannot be appealed to civil courts

Maldives
  Supreme Court; Supreme Court judges are appointed by the
  President with approval of voting members of the People's Council;
  High Court; Trial Courts; all lower court judges are appointed by
  the Judicial Service Commission

Mali
  Supreme Court or Cour Supreme

Malta
  Constitutional Court; Court of Appeal; judges for both courts
  are appointed by the president on the advice of the prime minister

Marshall Islands
  Supreme Court; High Court; Traditional Rights Court

Mauritania
  Supreme Court or Cour Supreme; Court of Appeals; lower
  courts

Mauritius
  Supreme Court

Mayotte
  Supreme Court or Tribunal Superieur d'Appel

Mexico
  Supreme Court of Justice or Suprema Corte de Justicia de la
  Nacion (justices or ministros are appointed by the president with
  consent of the Senate)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  Supreme Court

Moldova
  Supreme Court; Constitutional Court (the sole authority for
  constitutional judicature)

Monaco
  Supreme Court or Tribunal Supreme (judges appointed by the
  monarch on the basis of nominations by the National Council)

Mongolia
  Supreme Court (serves as appeals court for people's and
  provincial courts but rarely overturns verdicts of lower courts;
  judges are nominated by the General Council of Courts and approved
  by the president)

Montenegro
  Constitutional Court (five judges with nine-year terms);
  Supreme Court (judges have life tenure)

Montserrat
  Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court (based in Saint Lucia,
  one judge of the Supreme Court is a resident of the islands and
  presides over the High Court)

Morocco
  Supreme Court (judges are appointed on the recommendation of
  the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, presided over by the monarch)

Mozambique
  Supreme Court (the court of final appeal; some of its
  professional judges are appointed by the president and some are
  elected by the Assembly); other courts include an Administrative
  Court, customs courts, maritime courts, courts marshal, labor courts
  note: although the constitution provides for a separate
  Constitutional Court, one has never been established; in its absence
  the Supreme Court reviews constitutional cases

Namibia
  Supreme Court (judges appointed by the president on the
  recommendation of the Judicial Service Commission)

Nauru
  Supreme Court

Nepal
  Supreme Court or Sarbochha Adalat (chief justice is appointed
  by the monarch on recommendation of the Constitutional Council; the
  other judges are appointed by the monarch on the recommendation of
  the Judicial Council)

Netherlands
  Supreme Court or Hoge Raad (justices are nominated for
  life by the monarch)

Netherlands Antilles
  Joint High Court of Justice (judges appointed
  by the monarch)

New Caledonia
  Court of Appeal or Cour d'Appel; County Courts; Joint
  Commerce Tribunal Court; Children's Court

New Zealand
  Supreme Court; Court of Appeal; High Court; note -
  judges appointed by the Governor-General

Nicaragua
  Supreme Court or Corte Suprema de Justicia (16 judges
  elected for five-year terms by the National Assembly)

Niger
  State Court or Cour d'Etat; Court of Appeals or Cour d'Appel

Nigeria
  Supreme Court (judges appointed by the President); Federal
  Court of Appeal (judges are appointed by the federal government on
  the advice of the Advisory Judicial Committee)

Niue
  Supreme Court of New Zealand; High Court of Niue

Norfolk Island
  Supreme Court; Court of Petty Sessions

Northern Mariana Islands
  Commonwealth Supreme Court; Superior Court;
  Federal District Court

Norway
  Supreme Court or Hoyesterett (justices appointed by the
  monarch)

Oman
  Supreme Court
  note: the nascent civil court system, administered by region, has
  judges who practice secular and Sharia law

Pakistan
  Supreme Court (justices appointed by the president);
  Federal Islamic or Sharia Court

Palau
  Supreme Court; Court of Common Pleas; Land Court

Panama
  Supreme Court of Justice or Corte Suprema de Justicia (nine
  judges appointed for 10-year terms); five superior courts; three
  courts of appeal

Papua New Guinea
  Supreme Court (the chief justice is appointed by
  the governor general on the proposal of the National Executive
  Council after consultation with the minister responsible for
  justice; other judges are appointed by the Judicial and Legal
  Services Commission)

Paraguay
  Supreme Court of Justice or Corte Suprema de Justicia (nine
  judges appointed on the proposal of the Council of Magistrates or
  Consejo de la Magistratura)

Peru
  Supreme Court of Justice or Corte Suprema de Justicia (judges
  are appointed by the National Council of the Judiciary)

Philippines
  Supreme Court (15 justices are appointed by the
  president on the recommendation of the Judicial and Bar Council and
  serve until 70 years of age); Court of Appeals; Sandigan-bayan
  (special court for hearing corruption cases of government officials)

Pitcairn Islands
  Magistrate's Court; Supreme Court; Court of Appeal;
  Judicial Officers are appointed by the Governor

Poland
  Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the president on the
  recommendation of the National Council of the Judiciary for an
  indefinite period); Constitutional Tribunal (judges are chosen by
  the Sejm for nine-year terms)

Portugal
  Supreme Court or Supremo Tribunal de Justica (judges
  appointed for life by the Conselho Superior da Magistratura)

Puerto Rico
  Supreme Court; Appellate Court; Court of First Instance
  composed of two sections: a Superior Court and a Municipal Court
  (justices for all these courts appointed by the governor with the
  consent of the Senate)

Qatar
  Courts of First Instance, Appeal, and Cassation; an
  Administrative Court and a Constitutional Court were established in
  2007; note - all judges are appointed by Amiri Decree based on the
  recommendation of the Supreme Judiciary Council for renewable
  three-year terms

Romania
  Supreme Court of Justice (comprised of 11 judges appointed
  for three-year terms by the president in consultation with the
  Superior Council of Magistrates, which is comprised of the minister
  of justice, the prosecutor general, two civil society
  representatives appointed by the Senate, and 14 judges and
  prosecutors elected by their peers); a separate body, the
  Constitutional Court, validates elections and makes decisions
  regarding the constitutionality of laws, treaties, ordinances, and
  internal rules of the Parliament; it is comprised of nine members
  serving nine-year terms, with three members each appointed by the
  president, the Senate, and the Chamber of Deputies

Russia
  Constitutional Court; Supreme Court; Supreme Arbitration
  Court; judges for all courts are appointed for life by the
  Federation Council on the recommendation of the president

Rwanda
  Supreme Court; High Courts of the Republic; Provincial
  Courts; District Courts; mediation committees

Saint Helena
  Magistrate's Court; Supreme Court; Court of Appeal

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court (based on
  Saint Lucia; one judge of the Supreme Court resides in Saint Kitts
  and Nevis)

Saint Lucia
  Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court (jurisdiction extends to
  Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, the British Virgin Islands, Dominica,
  Grenada, Montserrat, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, and Saint
  Vincent and the Grenadines)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  Superior Tribunal of Appeals or Tribunal
  Superieur d'Appel

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court
  (based on Saint Lucia; one judge of the Supreme Court resides in
  Saint Vincent and the Grenadines)

Samoa
  Court of Appeal; Supreme Court; District Court; Land and
  Titles Court

San Marino
  Council of Twelve or Consiglio dei XII

Sao Tome and Principe
  Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the
  National Assembly)

Saudi Arabia
  Supreme Council of Justice

Senegal
  Constitutional Court; Council of State; Court of Final
  Appeals or Cour de Cassation; Court of Appeals

Serbia
  Constitutional Court, Supreme Court (to become court of
  cassation under new constitution), appellate courts, district
  courts, municipal courts

Seychelles
  Court of Appeal; Supreme Court; judges for both courts
  are appointed by the president

Sierra Leone
  Supreme Court; Appeals Court; High Court

Singapore
  Supreme Court (chief justice is appointed by the president
  with the advice of the prime minister, other judges are appointed by
  the president with the advice of the chief justice); Court of Appeals

Slovakia
  Supreme Court (judges are elected by the National Council);
  Constitutional Court (judges appointed by president from group of
  nominees approved by the National Council); Special Court (judges
  elected by a council of judges and appointed by president)

Slovenia
  Supreme Court (judges are elected by the National Assembly
  on the recommendation of the Judicial Council); Constitutional Court
  (judges elected for nine-year terms by the National Assembly and
  nominated by the president)

Solomon Islands
  Court of Appeal

Somalia
  following the breakdown of the central government, most
  regions have reverted to local forms of conflict resolution, either
  secular, traditional Somali customary law, or Sharia (Islamic) law
  with a provision for appeal of all sentences

South Africa
  Constitutional Court; Supreme Court of Appeals; High
  Courts; Magistrate Courts

Spain
  Supreme Court or Tribunal Supremo

Sri Lanka
  Supreme Court; Court of Appeals; judges for both courts
  are appointed by the president

Sudan
  Constitutional Court of nine justices; National Supreme Court;
  National Courts of Appeal; other national courts; National Judicial
  Service Commission will undertake overall management of the National
  Judiciary

Suriname
  Cantonal Courts and a Court of Justice as an appellate
  court (justices are nominated for life)

Swaziland
  High Court; Supreme Court; judges for both courts are
  appointed by the monarch

Sweden
  Supreme Court or Hogsta Domstolen (judges are appointed by
  the prime minister and the cabinet)

Switzerland
  Federal Supreme Court (judges elected for six-year terms
  by the Federal Assembly)

Syria
  Supreme Judicial Council (appoints and dismisses judges;
  headed by the president); national level - Supreme Constitutional
  Court (adjudicates electoral disputes and rules on constitutionality
  of laws and decrees; justices appointed for four-year terms by the
  President); Court of Cassation; Appeals Courts (Appeals Courts
  represent an intermediate level between the Court of Cassation and
  local level courts); local level - Magistrate Courts; Courts of
  First Instance; Juvenile Courts; Customs Courts; specialized courts
  - Economic Security Courts (hear cases related to economic crimes);
  Supreme State Security Court (hear cases related to national
  security); Personal Status Courts (religious; hear cases related to
  marriage and divorce)

Taiwan
  Judicial Yuan (justices appointed by the president with
  consent of the Legislative Yuan)

Tajikistan
  Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the president)

Tanzania
  Permanent Commission of Enquiry (official ombudsman); Court
  of Appeal (consists of a chief justice and four judges); High Court
  (consists of a Jaji Kiongozi and 29 judges appointed by the
  president; holds regular sessions in all regions); District Courts;
  Primary Courts (limited jurisdiction and appeals can be made to the
  higher courts)

Thailand
  Supreme Court or Sandika (judges appointed by the monarch)

Timor-Leste
  Supreme Court of Justice - constitution calls for one
  judge to be appointed by National Parliament and rest appointed by
  Superior Council for Judiciary; note - until Supreme Court is
  established, Court of Appeals is highest court

Togo
  Court of Appeal or Cour d'Appel; Supreme Court or Cour Supreme

Tokelau
  Supreme Court in New Zealand exercises civil and criminal
  jurisdiction in Tokelau

Tonga
  Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the monarch); Court of
  Appeal (Chief Justice and high court justices from overseas chosen
  and approved by Privy Council)

Trinidad and Tobago
  Supreme Court of Judicature (comprised of the
  High Court of Justice and the Court of Appeals; the chief justice is
  appointed by the president after consultation with the prime
  minister and the leader of the opposition; other justices are
  appointed by the president on the advice of the Judicial and Legal
  Service Commission); High Court of Justice; Caribbean Court of
  Appeals member; Court of Appeals; the highest court of appeal is the
  Privy Council in London

Tunisia
  Court of Cassation or Cour de Cassation

Turkey
  Constitutional Court; High Court of Appeals (Yargitay);
  Council of State (Danistay); Court of Accounts (Sayistay); Military
  High Court of Appeals; Military High Administrative Court

Turkmenistan
  Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the president)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  Supreme Court; Court of Appeal

Tuvalu
  High Court (a chief justice visits twice a year to preside
  over its sessions; its rulings can be appealed to the Court of
  Appeal in Fiji); eight Island Courts (with limited jurisdiction)

Uganda
  Court of Appeal (judges are appointed by the president and
  approved by the legislature); High Court (judges are appointed by
  the president)

Ukraine
  Supreme Court; Constitutional Court

United Arab Emirates
  Union Supreme Court (judges are appointed by
  the president)

United Kingdom
  House of Lords (highest court of appeal; several
  Lords of Appeal in Ordinary are appointed by the monarch for life);
  Supreme Courts of England, Wales, and Northern Ireland (comprising
  the Courts of Appeal, the High Courts of Justice, and the Crown
  Courts); Scotland's Court of Session and Court of the Justiciary

United States
  Supreme Court (nine justices; nominated by the
  president and confirmed with the advice and consent of the Senate;
  appointed to serve for life); United States Courts of Appeal; United
  States District Courts; State and County Courts

Uruguay
  Supreme Court (judges are nominated by the president and
  elected for 10-year terms by the General Assembly)

Uzbekistan
  Supreme Court (judges are nominated by the president and
  confirmed by the Supreme Assembly)

Vanuatu
  Supreme Court (chief justice is appointed by the president
  after consultation with the prime minister and the leader of the
  opposition, three other justices are appointed by the president on
  the advice of the Judicial Service Commission)

Venezuela
  Supreme Tribunal of Justice or Tribuna Suprema de Justicia
  (magistrates are elected by the National Assembly for a single
  12-year term)

Vietnam
  Supreme People's Court (chief justice is elected for a
  five-year term by the National Assembly on the recommendation of the
  president)

Virgin Islands
  US District Court of the Virgin Islands (under Third
  Circuit jurisdiction); Superior Court of the Virgin Islands (judges
  appointed by the governor for 10-year terms)

Wallis and Futuna
  justice generally administered under French law by
  the high administrator, but the three traditional kings administer
  customary law and there is a magistrate in Mata-Utu; a court of
  appeal is located in Noumea, New Caledonia

Yemen
  Supreme Court

Zambia
  Supreme Court (the final court of appeal; justices are
  appointed by the president); High Court (has unlimited jurisdiction
  to hear civil and criminal cases)

Zimbabwe
  Supreme Court; High Court

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2095  Labor force


Afghanistan
  15 million (2004 est.)

Albania
  1.09 million (not including 352,000 emigrant workers)
  (September 2006 est.)

Algeria
  9.38 million (2007 est.)

American Samoa
  17,630 (2005)

Andorra
  42,420 (2005)

Angola
  7.148 million (2007 est.)

Anguilla
  6,049 (2001)

Antigua and Barbuda
  30,000 (1991)

Argentina
  16.03 million
  note: urban areas only (2007 est.)

Armenia
  1.2 million (2007 est.)

Aruba
  41,500 (2004 est.)

Australia
  10.95 million (2007 est.)

Austria
  3.566 million (2007 est.)

Azerbaijan
  5.243 million (2007 est.)

Bahamas, The
  181,900 (2006)

Bahrain
  437,000
  note: 44% of the population in the 15-64 age group is non-national
  (2007 est.)

Bangladesh
  69.4 million
  note: extensive export of labor to Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, UAE, Oman,
  Qatar, and Malaysia; workers' remittances estimated at $4.8 billion
  in 2005-06. (2007 est.)

Barbados
  128,500 (2001 est.)

Belarus
  4.3 million (31 December 2005)

Belgium
  4.94 million (2007 est.)

Belize
  113,000
  note: shortage of skilled labor and all types of technical personnel
  (2006 est.)

Benin
  5.38 million (2007 est.)

Bermuda
  38,360 (2004)

Bhutan
  NA
  note: major shortage of skilled labor

Bolivia
  4.377 million (2007 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  1.026 million (2001)

Botswana
  288,400 formal sector employees (2004)

Brazil
  99.23 million (2007 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  12,770 (2004)

Brunei
  180,400 (2006 est.)

Bulgaria
  2.593 million (2007 est.)

Burkina Faso
  5 million
  note: a large part of the male labor force migrates annually to
  neighboring countries for seasonal employment (2003)

Burma
  29.26 million (2007 est.)

Burundi
  2.99 million (2002)

Cambodia
  7 million (2003 est.)

Cameroon
  6.674 million (2007 est.)

Canada
  17.95 million (2007 est.)

Cape Verde
  120,600 (1990)

Cayman Islands
  23,450 (2004)

Central African Republic
  1.857 million (2006)

Chad
  3.747 million (2006)

Chile
  7.167 million (2007 est.)

China
  800.7 million (2007 est.)

Christmas Island
  NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  NA

Colombia
  20.5 million (2007 est.)

Comoros
  144,500 (1996 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  15 million (2006 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  NA

Cook Islands
  6,820 (2001)

Costa Rica
  1.92 million
  note: this official estimate excludes Nicaraguans living in Costa
  Rica (2007 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  6.907 million (68% agricultural) (2007 est.)

Croatia
  1.749 million (2007 est.)

Cuba
  4.956 million
  note: state sector 78%, non-state sector 22% (2007 est.)

Cyprus
  393,000 (2007 est.)

Czech Republic
  5.36 million (2007 est.)

Denmark
  2.86 million (2007 est.)

Djibouti
  282,000 (2000)

Dominica
  25,000 (2000 est.)

Dominican Republic
  4.027 million (2007 est.)

Ecuador
  4.51 million (urban) (2007 est.)

Egypt
  22.1 million (2007 est.)

El Salvador
  2.913 million (2007 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  NA

Eritrea
  NA

Estonia
  687,000 (2007 est.)

Ethiopia
  27.27 million (1999)

European Union
  222.7 million (2006 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  1,724 (est.) (1996)

Faroe Islands
  24,250 (October 2000)

Fiji
  117,500 (2006 est.)

Finland
  2.675 million (2007 est.)

France
  27.91 million (2007 est.)

French Polynesia
  65,930 (December 2005)

Gabon
  582,000 (2007 est.)

Gambia, The
  400,000 (1996)

Gaza Strip
  267,000 (2006)

Georgia
  2.02 million (2007 est.)

Germany
  43.54 million (2007 est.)

Ghana
  11.29 million (2007 est.)

Gibraltar
  12,690 (including non-Gibraltar laborers) (2001)

Greece
  4.92 million (2007 est.)

Greenland
  32,120 (2004)

Grenada
  42,300 (1996)

Guam
  62,050 (2002 est.)

Guatemala
  3.958 million (2007 est.)

Guernsey
  31,470 (March 2006)

Guinea
  3.7 million (2006 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  480,000 (1999)

Guyana
  418,000 (2001 est.)

Haiti
  3.6 million
  note: shortage of skilled labor, unskilled labor abundant (1995)

Holy See (Vatican City)
  NA

Honduras
  2.779 million (2007 est.)

Hong Kong
  3.64 million (2007 est.)

Hungary
  4.19 million (2007 est.)

Iceland
  181,000 (2007 est.)

India
  516.4 million (2007 est.)

Indonesia
  109.9 million (2007 est.)

Iran
  28.7 million
  note: shortage of skilled labor (2006 est.)

Iraq
  7.4 million (2004 est.)

Ireland
  2.217 million (2007 est.)

Isle of Man
  39,690 (2001)

Israel
  2.894 million (2007 est.)

Italy
  24.74 million (2007 est.)

Jamaica
  1.255 million (2007 est.)

Japan
  66.69 million (2007 est.)

Jersey
  53,560 (June 2006)

Jordan
  1.563 million (2007 est.)

Kazakhstan
  8.229 million (2007 est.)

Kenya
  11.85 million (2005 est.)

Kiribati
  7,870 economically active, not including subsistence
  farmers (2001 est.)

Korea, North
  20 million
  note: estimates vary widely (2004 est.)

Korea, South
  24.22 million (2007 est.)

Kosovo
  832,000 (June 2007 est.)

Kuwait
  2.093 million
  note: non-Kuwaitis represent about 80% of the labor force (2007 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  2.7 million (2000)

Laos
  2.1 million (2006 est.)

Latvia
  1.167 million (2007 est.)

Lebanon
  1.5 million
  note: in addition, there are as many as 1 million foreign workers
  (2005 est.)

Lesotho
  838,000 (2000 est.)

Libya
  1.83 million (2007 est.)

Liechtenstein
  29,500 of whom 13,900 commute from Austria,
  Switzerland, and Germany to work each day (31 December 2001)

Lithuania
  1.603 million (2007 est.)

Luxembourg
  205,000 of whom 121,600 are foreign cross-border workers
  commuting primarily from France, Belgium, and Germany (2007 est.)

Macau
  275,000 (2006)

Macedonia
  890,000 (2007 est.)

Madagascar
  7.3 million (2000)

Malawi
  4.5 million (2001 est.)

Malaysia
  10.94 million (2007 est.)

Maldives
  101,300 (2004)

Mali
  5.4 million (2007 est.)

Malta
  166,000 (2007 est.)

Marshall Islands
  14,680 (2000)

Mauritania
  786,000 (2001)

Mauritius
  574,000 (2007 est.)

Mayotte
  44,560 (2002)

Mexico
  44.71 million (2007 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  37,410 (2000)

Moldova
  1.333 million (2007 est.)

Monaco
  44,000
  note: includes workers from all foreign countries (2005 est.)

Mongolia
  1.042 million (2006)

Montenegro
  259,100 (2004)

Montserrat
  4,521
  note: lowered by flight of people from volcanic activity (2000 est.)

Morocco
  11.39 million (2007 est.)

Mozambique
  9.6 million (2007 est.)

Namibia
  660,000 (2007 est.)

Nepal
  11.11 million
  note: severe lack of skilled labor (2006 est.)

Netherlands
  7.604 million (2007 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  83,600 (2005)

New Caledonia
  78,990 (2004)

New Zealand
  2.236 million (2007 est.)

Nicaragua
  2.262 million (2007 est.)

Niger
  70,000 salaried workers, 60% of whom are employed in the
  public sector (1995)

Nigeria
  50.13 million (2007 est.)

Niue
  663 (2001)

Norfolk Island
  NA

Northern Mariana Islands
  44,470 total indigenous labor force; 2,699
  unemployed; 28,717 foreign workers (2000)

Norway
  2.507 million (2007 est.)

Oman
  920,000 (2002 est.)

Pakistan
  48.23 million
  note: extensive export of labor, mostly to the Middle East, and use
  of child labor (2007 est.)

Palau
  9,777 (2005)

Panama
  1.362 million
  note: shortage of skilled labor, but an oversupply of unskilled
  labor (2007 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  3.557 million (2007 est.)

Paraguay
  2.787 million (2007 est.)

Peru
  9.839 million (2007 est.)

Philippines
  36.22 million (2007 est.)

Pitcairn Islands
  15 able-bodied men (2004)

Poland
  16.86 million (2007 est.)

Portugal
  5.618 million (2007 est.)

Puerto Rico
  1.3 million (2000)

Qatar
  881,000 (2007 est.)

Romania
  9.3 million (2007 est.)

Russia
  75.1 million (2007 est.)

Rwanda
  4.6 million (2000)

Saint Helena
  2,486
  note: 1,200 work offshore (1998 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  18,170 (June 1995)

Saint Lucia
  43,800 (2001 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  3,450 (2005)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  41,680 (1991 est.)

Samoa
  90,000 (2000 est.)

San Marino
  20,470 (2004)

Sao Tome and Principe
  35,050 (1991)

Saudi Arabia
  6.563 million
  note: about one-third of the population in the 15-64 age group is
  non-national (2007 est.)

Senegal
  4.85 million (2007 est.)

Serbia
  2.961 million (2002 est.)

Seychelles
  39,560 (2006)

Sierra Leone
  1.369 million (1981 est.)

Singapore
  2.751 million (2007 est.)

Slovakia
  2.654 million (2007 est.)

Slovenia
  925,000 (2007 est.)

Solomon Islands
  249,200 (1999)

Somalia
  3.7 million (few skilled laborers) (1975)

South Africa
  20.49 million economically active (2007 est.)

Spain
  22.19 million (2007 est.)

Sri Lanka
  7.489 million (2007 est.)

Sudan
  7.415 million (1996 est.)

Suriname
  156,700 (2004)

Svalbard
  NA

Swaziland
  300,000 (2006)

Sweden
  4.839 million (2007 est.)

Switzerland
  3.954 million (2007 est.)

Syria
  5.462 million (2007 est.)

Taiwan
  10.71 million (2007 est.)

Tajikistan
  2.1 million (2007)

Tanzania
  20.04 million (2007 est.)

Thailand
  36.9 million (2007 est.)

Timor-Leste
  NA

Togo
  1.302 million (1998)

Tokelau
  440 (2001)

Tonga
  33,910 (2003)

Trinidad and Tobago
  622,000 (2007 est.)

Tunisia
  3.593 million (2007 est.)

Turkey
  23.53 million
  note: about 1.2 million Turks work abroad (2007 est.)

Turkmenistan
  2.089 million (2004 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  4,848 (1990 est.)

Tuvalu
  3,615 (2004 est.)

Uganda
  14.02 million (2007 est.)

Ukraine
  21.58 million (2007 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  3.065 million (2007 est.)

United Kingdom
  30.89 million (2007 est.)

United States
  153.1 million (includes unemployed) (2007 est.)

Uruguay
  1.631 million (2007 est.)

Uzbekistan
  14.6 million (2007 est.)

Vanuatu
  76,410 (1999)

Venezuela
  12.37 million (2007 est.)

Vietnam
  46.42 million (2007 est.)

Virgin Islands
  43,980 (2004 est.)

Wallis and Futuna
  3,104 (2003)

West Bank
  605,000 (2006)

Western Sahara
  12,000 (2005 est.)

World
  3.131 billion (2007 est.)

Yemen
  6.305 million (2007 est.)

Zambia
  4.989 million (2007 est.)

Zimbabwe
  4.032 million (2007 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2096  Land boundaries (km)


Afghanistan
  total: 5,529 km
  border countries: China 76 km, Iran 936 km, Pakistan 2,430 km,
  Tajikistan 1,206 km, Turkmenistan 744 km, Uzbekistan 137 km

Akrotiri
  total: 47.4 km
  border countries: Cyprus 47.4 km

Albania
  total: 717 km
  border countries: Greece 282 km, Macedonia 151 km, Montenegro 172
  km, Kosovo 112 km

Algeria
  total: 6,343 km
  border countries: Libya 982 km, Mali 1,376 km, Mauritania 463 km,
  Morocco 1,559 km, Niger 956 km, Tunisia 965 km, Western Sahara 42 km

American Samoa
  0 km

Andorra
  total: 120.3 km
  border countries: France 56.6 km, Spain 63.7 km

Angola
  total: 5,198 km
  border countries: Democratic Republic of the Congo 2,511 km (of
  which 225 km is the boundary of discontiguous Cabinda Province),
  Republic of the Congo 201 km, Namibia 1,376 km, Zambia 1,110 km

Anguilla
  0 km

Antarctica
  0 km
  note: see entry on Disputes - international

Antigua and Barbuda
  0 km

Argentina
  total: 9,861 km
  border countries: Bolivia 832 km, Brazil 1,261 km, Chile 5,308 km,
  Paraguay 1,880 km, Uruguay 580 km

Armenia
  total: 1,254 km
  border countries: Azerbaijan-proper 566 km, Azerbaijan-Naxcivan
  exclave 221 km, Georgia 164 km, Iran 35 km, Turkey 268 km

Aruba
  0 km

Ashmore and Cartier Islands
  0 km

Australia
  0 km

Austria
  total: 2,562 km
  border countries: Czech Republic 362 km, Germany 784 km, Hungary 366
  km, Italy 430 km, Liechtenstein 35 km, Slovakia 91 km, Slovenia 330
  km, Switzerland 164 km

Azerbaijan
  total: 2,013 km
  border countries: Armenia (with Azerbaijan-proper) 566 km, Armenia
  (with Azerbaijan-Naxcivan exclave) 221 km, Georgia 322 km, Iran
  (with Azerbaijan-proper) 432 km, Iran (with Azerbaijan-Naxcivan
  exclave) 179 km, Russia 284 km, Turkey 9 km

Bahamas, The
  0 km

Bahrain
  0 km

Bangladesh
  total: 4,246 km
  border countries: Burma 193 km, India 4,053 km

Barbados
  0 km

Belarus
  total: 3,306 km
  border countries: Latvia 171 km, Lithuania 680 km, Poland 605 km,
  Russia 959 km, Ukraine 891 km

Belgium
  total: 1,385 km
  border countries: France 620 km, Germany 167 km, Luxembourg 148 km,
  Netherlands 450 km

Belize
  total: 516 km
  border countries: Guatemala 266 km, Mexico 250 km

Benin
  total: 1,989 km
  border countries: Burkina Faso 306 km, Niger 266 km, Nigeria 773 km,
  Togo 644 km

Bermuda
  0 km

Bhutan
  total: 1,075 km
  border countries: China 470 km, India 605 km

Bolivia
  total: 6,940 km
  border countries: Argentina 832 km, Brazil 3,423 km, Chile 860 km,
  Paraguay 750 km, Peru 1,075 km

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  total: 1,538 km
  border countries: Croatia 932 km, Montenegro 249 km, Serbia 357 km

Botswana
  total: 4,013 km
  border countries: Namibia 1,360 km, South Africa 1,840 km, Zimbabwe
  813 km

Bouvet Island
  0 km

Brazil
  total: 16,885 km
  border countries: Argentina 1,261 km, Bolivia 3,423 km, Colombia
  1,644 km, French Guiana 730 km, Guyana 1,606 km, Paraguay 1,365 km,
  Peru 2,995 km, Suriname 593 km, Uruguay 1,068 km, Venezuela 2,200 km

British Indian Ocean Territory
  0 km

British Virgin Islands
  0 km

Brunei
  total: 381 km
  border countries: Malaysia 381 km

Bulgaria
  total: 1,808 km
  border countries: Greece 494 km, Macedonia 148 km, Romania 608 km,
  Serbia 318 km, Turkey 240 km

Burkina Faso
  total: 3,193 km
  border countries: Benin 306 km, Cote d'Ivoire 584 km, Ghana 549 km,
  Mali 1,000 km, Niger 628 km, Togo 126 km

Burma
  total: 5,876 km
  border countries: Bangladesh 193 km, China 2,185 km, India 1,463 km,
  Laos 235 km, Thailand 1,800 km

Burundi
  total: 974 km
  border countries: Democratic Republic of the Congo 233 km, Rwanda
  290 km, Tanzania 451 km

Cambodia
  total: 2,572 km
  border countries: Laos 541 km, Thailand 803 km, Vietnam 1,228 km

Cameroon
  total: 4,591 km
  border countries: Central African Republic 797 km, Chad 1,094 km,
  Republic of the Congo 523 km, Equatorial Guinea 189 km, Gabon 298
  km, Nigeria 1,690 km

Canada
  total: 8,893 km
  border countries: US 8,893 km (includes 2,477 km with Alaska)

Cape Verde
  0 km

Cayman Islands
  0 km

Central African Republic
  total: 5,203 km
  border countries: Cameroon 797 km, Chad 1,197 km, Democratic
  Republic of the Congo 1,577 km, Republic of the Congo 467 km, Sudan
  1,165 km

Chad
  total: 5,968 km
  border countries: Cameroon 1,094 km, Central African Republic 1,197
  km, Libya 1,055 km, Niger 1,175 km, Nigeria 87 km, Sudan 1,360 km

Chile
  total: 6,339 km
  border countries: Argentina 5,308 km, Bolivia 860 km, Peru 171 km

China
  total: 22,117 km
  border countries: Afghanistan 76 km, Bhutan 470 km, Burma 2,185 km,
  India 3,380 km, Kazakhstan 1,533 km, North Korea 1,416 km,
  Kyrgyzstan 858 km, Laos 423 km, Mongolia 4,677 km, Nepal 1,236 km,
  Pakistan 523 km, Russia (northeast) 3,605 km, Russia (northwest) 40
  km, Tajikistan 414 km, Vietnam 1,281 km
  regional borders: Hong Kong 30 km, Macau 0.34 km

Christmas Island
  0 km

Clipperton Island
  0 km

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  0 km

Colombia
  total: 6,309 km
  border countries: Brazil 1,644 km, Ecuador 590 km, Panama 225 km,
  Peru 1,800 km, Venezuela 2,050 km

Comoros
  0 km

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  total: 10,730 km
  border countries: Angola 2,511 km (of which 225 km is the boundary
  of Angola's discontiguous Cabinda Province), Burundi 233 km, Central
  African Republic 1,577 km, Republic of the Congo 2,410 km, Rwanda
  217 km, Sudan 628 km, Tanzania 459 km, Uganda 765 km, Zambia 1,930 km

Congo, Republic of the
  total: 5,504 km
  border countries: Angola 201 km, Cameroon 523 km, Central African
  Republic 467 km, Democratic Republic of the Congo 2,410 km, Gabon
  1,903 km

Cook Islands
  0 km

Coral Sea Islands
  0 km

Costa Rica
  total: 639 km
  border countries: Nicaragua 309 km, Panama 330 km

Cote d'Ivoire
  total: 3,110 km
  border countries: Burkina Faso 584 km, Ghana 668 km, Guinea 610 km,
  Liberia 716 km, Mali 532 km

Croatia
  total: 1,982 km
  border countries: Bosnia and Herzegovina 932 km, Hungary 329 km,
  Serbia 241 km, Montenegro 25 km, Slovenia 455 km

Cuba
  total: 29 km
  border countries: US Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay 29 km
  note: Guantanamo Naval Base is leased by the US and remains part of
  Cuba

Cyprus
  total: 150.4 km (approximately)
  border sovereign base areas: Akrotiri 47.4 km, Dhekelia 103 km
  (approximately)

Czech Republic
  total: 1,989 km
  border countries: Austria 362 km, Germany 815 km, Poland 615 km,
  Slovakia 197 km

Denmark
  total: 68 km
  border countries: Germany 68 km

Dhekelia
  total: 103 km (approximately)
  border countries: Cyprus 103 km (approximately)

Djibouti
  total: 516 km
  border countries: Eritrea 109 km, Ethiopia 349 km, Somalia 58 km

Dominica
  0 km

Dominican Republic
  total: 360 km
  border countries: Haiti 360 km

Ecuador
  total: 2,010 km
  border countries: Colombia 590 km, Peru 1,420 km

Egypt
  total: 2,665 km
  border countries: Gaza Strip 11 km, Israel 266 km, Libya 1,115 km,
  Sudan 1,273 km

El Salvador
  total: 545 km
  border countries: Guatemala 203 km, Honduras 342 km

Equatorial Guinea
  total: 539 km
  border countries: Cameroon 189 km, Gabon 350 km

Eritrea
  total: 1,626 km
  border countries: Djibouti 109 km, Ethiopia 912 km, Sudan 605 km

Estonia
  total: 633 km
  border countries: Latvia 343 km, Russia 290 km

Ethiopia
  total: 5,328 km
  border countries: Djibouti 349 km, Eritrea 912 km, Kenya 861 km,
  Somalia 1,600 km, Sudan 1,606 km

European Union
  total: 12,440.8 km
  border countries: Albania 282 km, Andorra 120.3 km, Belarus 1,050
  km, Croatia 999 km, Holy See 3.2 km, Liechtenstein 34.9 km,
  Macedonia 394 km, Moldova 450 km, Monaco 4.4 km, Norway 2,348 km,
  Russia 2,257 km, San Marino 39 km, Serbia 945 km, Switzerland 1,811
  km, Turkey 446 km, Ukraine 1,257 km
  note: data for European Continent only

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  0 km

Faroe Islands
  0 km

Fiji
  0 km

Finland
  total: 2,654 km
  border countries: Norway 727 km, Sweden 614 km, Russia 1,313 km

France
  metropolitan France - total: 2,889 km
  border countries: Andorra 56.6 km, Belgium 620 km, Germany 451 km,
  Italy 488 km, Luxembourg 73 km, Monaco 4.4 km, Spain 623 km,
  Switzerland 573 km
  French Guiana - total: 1,183 km
  border countries: Brazil 673 km, Suriname 510 km

French Polynesia
  0 km

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  0 km

Gabon
  total: 2,551 km
  border countries: Cameroon 298 km, Republic of the Congo 1,903 km,
  Equatorial Guinea 350 km

Gambia, The
  total: 740 km
  border countries: Senegal 740 km

Gaza Strip
  total: 62 km
  border countries: Egypt 11 km, Israel 51 km

Georgia
  total: 1,461 km
  border countries: Armenia 164 km, Azerbaijan 322 km, Russia 723 km,
  Turkey 252 km

Germany
  total: 3,621 km
  border countries: Austria 784 km, Belgium 167 km, Czech Republic 646
  km, Denmark 68 km, France 451 km, Luxembourg 138 km, Netherlands 577
  km, Poland 456 km, Switzerland 334 km

Ghana
  total: 2,094 km
  border countries: Burkina Faso 549 km, Cote d'Ivoire 668 km, Togo
  877 km

Gibraltar
  total: 1.2 km
  border countries: Spain 1.2 km

Greece
  total: 1,228 km
  border countries: Albania 282 km, Bulgaria 494 km, Turkey 206 km,
  Macedonia 246 km

Greenland
  0 km

Grenada
  0 km

Guam
  0 km

Guatemala
  total: 1,687 km
  border countries: Belize 266 km, El Salvador 203 km, Honduras 256
  km, Mexico 962 km

Guernsey
  0 km

Guinea
  total: 3,399 km
  border countries: Cote d'Ivoire 610 km, Guinea-Bissau 386 km,
  Liberia 563 km, Mali 858 km, Senegal 330 km, Sierra Leone 652 km

Guinea-Bissau
  total: 724 km
  border countries: Guinea 386 km, Senegal 338 km

Guyana
  total: 2,949 km
  border countries: Brazil 1,606 km, Suriname 600 km, Venezuela 743 km

Haiti
  total: 360 km
  border countries: Dominican Republic 360 km

Heard Island and McDonald Islands
  0 km

Holy See (Vatican City)
  total: 3.2 km
  border countries: Italy 3.2 km

Honduras
  total: 1,520 km
  border countries: Guatemala 256 km, El Salvador 342 km, Nicaragua
  922 km

Hong Kong
  total: 30 km
  regional border: China 30 km

Hungary
  total: 2,185 km
  border countries: Austria 366 km, Croatia 329 km, Romania 443 km,
  Serbia 166 km, Slovakia 676 km, Slovenia 102 km, Ukraine 103 km

Iceland
  0 km

India
  total: 14,103 km
  border countries: Bangladesh 4,053 km, Bhutan 605 km, Burma 1,463
  km, China 3,380 km, Nepal 1,690 km, Pakistan 2,912 km

Indonesia
  total: 2,830 km
  border countries: Timor-Leste 228 km, Malaysia 1,782 km, Papua New
  Guinea 820 km

Iran
  total: 5,440 km
  border countries: Afghanistan 936 km, Armenia 35 km,
  Azerbaijan-proper 432 km, Azerbaijan-Naxcivan exclave 179 km, Iraq
  1,458 km, Pakistan 909 km, Turkey 499 km, Turkmenistan 992 km

Iraq
  total: 3,650 km
  border countries: Iran 1,458 km, Jordan 181 km, Kuwait 240 km, Saudi
  Arabia 814 km, Syria 605 km, Turkey 352 km

Ireland
  total: 360 km
  border countries: UK 360 km

Isle of Man
  0 km

Israel
  total: 1,017 km
  border countries: Egypt 266 km, Gaza Strip 51 km, Jordan 238 km,
  Lebanon 79 km, Syria 76 km, West Bank 307 km

Italy
  total: 1,899.2 km
  border countries: Austria 430 km, France 488 km, Holy See (Vatican
  City) 3.2 km, San Marino 39 km, Slovenia 199 km, Switzerland 740 km

Jamaica
  0 km

Jan Mayen
  0 km

Japan
  0 km

Jersey
  0 km

Jordan
  total: 1,635 km
  border countries: Iraq 181 km, Israel 238 km, Saudi Arabia 744 km,
  Syria 375 km, West Bank 97 km

Kazakhstan
  total: 12,185 km
  border countries: China 1,533 km, Kyrgyzstan 1,224 km, Russia 6,846
  km, Turkmenistan 379 km, Uzbekistan 2,203 km

Kenya
  total: 3,477 km
  border countries: Ethiopia 861 km, Somalia 682 km, Sudan 232 km,
  Tanzania 769 km, Uganda 933 km

Kiribati
  0 km

Korea, North
  total: 1,673 km
  border countries: China 1,416 km, South Korea 238 km, Russia 19 km

Korea, South
  total: 238 km
  border countries: North Korea 238 km

Kosovo
  total: 702 km
  border countries: Albania 112 km, Macedonia 159 km, Montenegro 79
  km, Serbia 352 km

Kuwait
  total: 462 km
  border countries: Iraq 240 km, Saudi Arabia 222 km

Kyrgyzstan
  total: 3,051 km
  border countries: China 858 km, Kazakhstan 1,224 km, Tajikistan 870
  km, Uzbekistan 1,099 km

Laos
  total: 5,083 km
  border countries: Burma 235 km, Cambodia 541 km, China 423 km,
  Thailand 1,754 km, Vietnam 2,130 km

Latvia
  total: 1,382 km
  border countries: Belarus 171 km, Estonia 343 km, Lithuania 576 km,
  Russia 292 km

Lebanon
  total: 454 km
  border countries: Israel 79 km, Syria 375 km

Lesotho
  total: 909 km
  border countries: South Africa 909 km

Liberia
  total: 1,585 km
  border countries: Guinea 563 km, Cote d'Ivoire 716 km, Sierra Leone
  306 km

Libya
  total: 4,348 km
  border countries: Algeria 982 km, Chad 1,055 km, Egypt 1,115 km,
  Niger 354 km, Sudan 383 km, Tunisia 459 km

Liechtenstein
  total: 76 km
  border countries: Austria 34.9 km, Switzerland 41.1 km

Lithuania
  total: 1,574 km
  border countries: Belarus 680 km, Latvia 576 km, Poland 91 km,
  Russia (Kaliningrad) 227 km

Luxembourg
  total: 359 km
  border countries: Belgium 148 km, France 73 km, Germany 138 km

Macau
  total: 0.34 km
  regional border: China 0.34 km

Macedonia
  total: 766 km
  border countries: Albania 151 km, Bulgaria 148 km, Greece 246 km,
  Kosovo 159 km, Serbia 62 km

Madagascar
  0 km

Malawi
  total: 2,881 km
  border countries: Mozambique 1,569 km, Tanzania 475 km, Zambia 837 km

Malaysia
  total: 2,669 km
  border countries: Brunei 381 km, Indonesia 1,782 km, Thailand 506 km

Maldives
  0 km

Mali
  total: 7,243 km
  border countries: Algeria 1,376 km, Burkina Faso 1,000 km, Guinea
  858 km, Cote d'Ivoire 532 km, Mauritania 2,237 km, Niger 821 km,
  Senegal 419 km

Malta
  0 km

Marshall Islands
  0 km

Mauritania
  total: 5,074 km
  border countries: Algeria 463 km, Mali 2,237 km, Senegal 813 km,
  Western Sahara 1,561 km

Mauritius
  0 km

Mayotte
  0 km

Mexico
  total: 4,353 km
  border countries: Belize 250 km, Guatemala 962 km, US 3,141 km

Micronesia, Federated States of
  0 km

Moldova
  total: 1,390 km
  border countries: Romania 450 km, Ukraine 940 km

Monaco
  total: 4.4 km
  border countries: France 4.4 km

Mongolia
  total: 8,220 km
  border countries: China 4,677 km, Russia 3,543 km

Montenegro
  total: 625 km
  border countries: Albania 172 km, Bosnia and Herzegovina 225 km,
  Croatia 25 km, Kosovo 79 km, Serbia 124 km

Montserrat
  0 km

Morocco
  total: 2,017.9 km
  border countries: Algeria 1,559 km, Western Sahara 443 km, Spain
  (Ceuta) 6.3 km, Spain (Melilla) 9.6 km

Mozambique
  total: 4,571 km
  border countries: Malawi 1,569 km, South Africa 491 km, Swaziland
  105 km, Tanzania 756 km, Zambia 419 km, Zimbabwe 1,231 km

Namibia
  total: 3,936 km
  border countries: Angola 1,376 km, Botswana 1,360 km, South Africa
  967 km, Zambia 233 km

Nauru
  0 km

Navassa Island
  0 km

Nepal
  total: 2,926 km
  border countries: China 1,236 km, India 1,690 km

Netherlands
  total: 1,027 km
  border countries: Belgium 450 km, Germany 577 km

Netherlands Antilles
  total: 15 km
  border countries: Saint Martin 15 km

New Caledonia
  0 km

New Zealand
  0 km

Nicaragua
  total: 1,231 km
  border countries: Costa Rica 309 km, Honduras 922 km

Niger
  total: 5,697 km
  border countries: Algeria 956 km, Benin 266 km, Burkina Faso 628 km,
  Chad 1,175 km, Libya 354 km, Mali 821 km, Nigeria 1,497 km

Nigeria
  total: 4,047 km
  border countries: Benin 773 km, Cameroon 1,690 km, Chad 87 km, Niger
  1,497 km

Niue
  0 km

Norfolk Island
  0 km

Northern Mariana Islands
  0 km

Norway
  total: 2,542 km
  border countries: Finland 727 km, Sweden 1,619 km, Russia 196 km

Oman
  total: 1,374 km
  border countries: Saudi Arabia 676 km, UAE 410 km, Yemen 288 km

Pakistan
  total: 6,774 km
  border countries: Afghanistan 2,430 km, China 523 km, India 2,912
  km, Iran 909 km

Palau
  0 km

Panama
  total: 555 km
  border countries: Colombia 225 km, Costa Rica 330 km

Papua New Guinea
  total: 820 km
  border countries: Indonesia 820 km

Paracel Islands
  0 km

Paraguay
  total: 3,995 km
  border countries: Argentina 1,880 km, Bolivia 750 km, Brazil 1,365 km

Peru
  total: 7,461 km
  border countries: Bolivia 1,075 km, Brazil 2,995 km, Chile 171 km,
  Colombia 1,800 km, Ecuador 1,420 km

Philippines
  0 km

Pitcairn Islands
  0 km

Poland
  total: 3,047 km
  border countries: Belarus 605 km, Czech Republic 615 km, Germany 456
  km, Lithuania 91 km, Russia (Kaliningrad Oblast) 432 km, Slovakia
  420 km, Ukraine 428 km

Portugal
  total: 1,214 km
  border countries: Spain 1,214 km

Puerto Rico
  0 km

Qatar
  total: 60 km
  border countries: Saudi Arabia 60 km

Romania
  total: 2,508 km
  border countries: Bulgaria 608 km, Hungary 443 km, Moldova 450 km,
  Serbia 476 km, Ukraine (north) 362 km, Ukraine (east) 169 km

Russia
  total: 20,241.5 km
  border countries: Azerbaijan 284 km, Belarus 959 km, China
  (southeast) 3,605 km, China (south) 40 km, Estonia 290 km, Finland
  1,313 km, Georgia 723 km, Kazakhstan 6,846 km, North Korea 17.5 km,
  Latvia 292 km, Lithuania (Kaliningrad Oblast) 227 km, Mongolia 3,441
  km, Norway 196 km, Poland (Kaliningrad Oblast) 432 km, Ukraine 1,576
  km

Rwanda
  total: 893 km
  border countries: Burundi 290 km, Democratic Republic of the Congo
  217 km, Tanzania 217 km, Uganda 169 km

Saint Barthelemy
  0 km

Saint Helena
  0 km

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  0 km

Saint Lucia
  0 km

Saint Martin
  total: 15 km
  border countries: Netherlands Antilles (Sint Maarten) 15 km

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  0 km

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  0 km

Samoa
  0 km

San Marino
  total: 39 km
  border countries: Italy 39 km

Sao Tome and Principe
  0 km

Saudi Arabia
  total: 4,431 km
  border countries: Iraq 814 km, Jordan 744 km, Kuwait 222 km, Oman
  676 km, Qatar 60 km, UAE 457 km, Yemen 1,458 km

Senegal
  total: 2,640 km
  border countries: The Gambia 740 km, Guinea 330 km, Guinea-Bissau
  338 km, Mali 419 km, Mauritania 813 km

Serbia
  total: 2,026 km
  border countries: Bosnia and Herzegovina 302 km, Bulgaria 318 km,
  Croatia 241 km, Hungary 151 km, Kosovo 352 km, Macedonia 62 km,
  Montenegro 124 km, Romania 476 km

Seychelles
  0 km

Sierra Leone
  total: 958 km
  border countries: Guinea 652 km, Liberia 306 km

Singapore
  0 km

Slovakia
  total: 1,474 km
  border countries: Austria 91 km, Czech Republic 197 km, Hungary 676
  km, Poland 420 km, Ukraine 90 km

Slovenia
  total: 1,086 km
  border countries: Austria 330 km, Croatia 455 km, Hungary 102 km,
  Italy 199 km

Solomon Islands
  0 km

Somalia
  total: 2,340 km
  border countries: Djibouti 58 km, Ethiopia 1,600 km, Kenya 682 km

South Africa
  total: 4,862 km
  border countries: Botswana 1,840 km, Lesotho 909 km, Mozambique 491
  km, Namibia 967 km, Swaziland 430 km, Zimbabwe 225 km

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  0 km

Spain
  total: 1,917.8 km
  border countries: Andorra 63.7 km, France 623 km, Gibraltar 1.2 km,
  Portugal 1,214 km, Morocco (Ceuta) 6.3 km, Morocco (Melilla) 9.6 km

Spratly Islands
  0 km

Sri Lanka
  0 km

Sudan
  total: 7,687 km
  border countries: Central African Republic 1,165 km, Chad 1,360 km,
  Democratic Republic of the Congo 628 km, Egypt 1,273 km, Eritrea 605
  km, Ethiopia 1,606 km, Kenya 232 km, Libya 383 km, Uganda 435 km

Suriname
  total: 1,703 km
  border countries: Brazil 593 km, French Guiana 510 km, Guyana 600 km

Svalbard
  0 km

Swaziland
  total: 535 km
  border countries: Mozambique 105 km, South Africa 430 km

Sweden
  total: 2,233 km
  border countries: Finland 614 km, Norway 1,619 km

Switzerland
  total: 1,852 km
  border countries: Austria 164 km, France 573 km, Italy 740 km,
  Liechtenstein 41 km, Germany 334 km

Syria
  total: 2,253 km
  border countries: Iraq 605 km, Israel 76 km, Jordan 375 km, Lebanon
  375 km, Turkey 822 km

Taiwan
  0 km

Tajikistan
  total: 3,651 km
  border countries: Afghanistan 1,206 km, China 414 km, Kyrgyzstan 870
  km, Uzbekistan 1,161 km

Tanzania
  total: 3,861 km
  border countries: Burundi 451 km, Democratic Republic of the Congo
  459 km, Kenya 769 km, Malawi 475 km, Mozambique 756 km, Rwanda 217
  km, Uganda 396 km, Zambia 338 km

Thailand
  total: 4,863 km
  border countries: Burma 1,800 km, Cambodia 803 km, Laos 1,754 km,
  Malaysia 506 km

Timor-Leste
  total: 228 km
  border countries: Indonesia 228 km

Togo
  total: 1,647 km
  border countries: Benin 644 km, Burkina Faso 126 km, Ghana 877 km

Tokelau
  0 km

Tonga
  0 km

Trinidad and Tobago
  0 km

Tunisia
  total: 1,424 km
  border countries: Algeria 965 km, Libya 459 km

Turkey
  total: 2,648 km
  border countries: Armenia 268 km, Azerbaijan 9 km, Bulgaria 240 km,
  Georgia 252 km, Greece 206 km, Iran 499 km, Iraq 352 km, Syria 822 km

Turkmenistan
  total: 3,736 km
  border countries: Afghanistan 744 km, Iran 992 km, Kazakhstan 379
  km, Uzbekistan 1,621 km

Turks and Caicos Islands
  0 km

Tuvalu
  0 km

Uganda
  total: 2,698 km
  border countries: Democratic Republic of the Congo 765 km, Kenya 933
  km, Rwanda 169 km, Sudan 435 km, Tanzania 396 km

Ukraine
  total: 4,566 km
  border countries: Belarus 891 km, Hungary 103 km, Moldova 940 km,
  Poland 428 km, Romania (south) 176 km, Romania (southwest) 362 km,
  Russia 1,576 km, Slovakia 90 km

United Arab Emirates
  total: 867 km
  border countries: Oman 410 km, Saudi Arabia 457 km

United Kingdom
  total: 360 km
  border countries: Ireland 360 km

United States
  total: 12,034 km
  border countries: Canada 8,893 km (including 2,477 km with Alaska),
  Mexico 3,141 km
  note: US Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba is leased by the US and
  is part of Cuba; the base boundary is 28 km

United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
  none

Uruguay
  total: 1,648 km
  border countries: Argentina 580 km, Brazil 1,068 km

Uzbekistan
  total: 6,221 km
  border countries: Afghanistan 137 km, Kazakhstan 2,203 km,
  Kyrgyzstan 1,099 km, Tajikistan 1,161 km, Turkmenistan 1,621 km

Vanuatu
  0 km

Venezuela
  total: 4,993 km
  border countries: Brazil 2,200 km, Colombia 2,050 km, Guyana 743 km

Vietnam
  total: 4,639 km
  border countries: Cambodia 1,228 km, China 1,281 km, Laos 2,130 km

Virgin Islands
  0 km

Wake Island
  0 km

Wallis and Futuna
  0 km

West Bank
  total: 404 km
  border countries: Israel 307 km, Jordan 97 km

Western Sahara
  total: 2,046 km
  border countries: Algeria 42 km, Mauritania 1,561 km, Morocco 443 km

World
  the land boundaries in the world total 251,060 km (not
  counting shared boundaries twice); two nations, China and Russia,
  each border 14 other countries
  note: 45 nations and other areas are landlocked, these include:
  Afghanistan, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bhutan,
  Bolivia, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Central African Republic,
  Chad, Czech Republic, Ethiopia, Holy See (Vatican City), Hungary,
  Kazakhstan, Kosovo, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lesotho, Liechtenstein,
  Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malawi, Mali, Moldova, Mongolia, Nepal,
  Niger, Paraguay, Rwanda, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Swaziland,
  Switzerland, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Uzbekistan, West
  Bank, Zambia, Zimbabwe; two of these, Liechtenstein and Uzbekistan,
  are doubly landlocked

Yemen
  total: 1,746 km
  border countries: Oman 288 km, Saudi Arabia 1,458 km

Zambia
  total: 5,664 km
  border countries: Angola 1,110 km, Democratic Republic of the Congo
  1,930 km, Malawi 837 km, Mozambique 419 km, Namibia 233 km, Tanzania
  338 km, Zimbabwe 797 km

Zimbabwe
  total: 3,066 km
  border countries: Botswana 813 km, Mozambique 1,231 km, South Africa
  225 km, Zambia 797 km

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2097  Land use (%)


Afghanistan
  arable land: 12.13%
  permanent crops: 0.21%
  other: 87.66% (2005)

Albania
  arable land: 20.1%
  permanent crops: 4.21%
  other: 75.69% (2005)

Algeria
  arable land: 3.17%
  permanent crops: 0.28%
  other: 96.55% (2005)

American Samoa
  arable land: 10%
  permanent crops: 15%
  other: 75% (2005)

Andorra
  arable land: 2.13%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 97.87% (2005)

Angola
  arable land: 2.65%
  permanent crops: 0.23%
  other: 97.12% (2005)

Anguilla
  arable land: 0%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 100% (mostly rock with sparse scrub oak, few trees, some
  commercial salt ponds) (2005)

Antarctica
  arable land: 0%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 100% (ice 98%, barren rock 2%) (2005)

Antigua and Barbuda
  arable land: 18.18%
  permanent crops: 4.55%
  other: 77.27% (2005)

Argentina
  arable land: 10.03%
  permanent crops: 0.36%
  other: 89.61% (2005)

Armenia
  arable land: 16.78%
  permanent crops: 2.01%
  other: 81.21% (2005)

Aruba
  arable land: 10.53%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 89.47% (2005)

Ashmore and Cartier Islands
  arable land: 0%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 100% (all grass and sand) (2005)

Australia
  arable land: 6.15% (includes about 27 million hectares of
  cultivated grassland)
  permanent crops: 0.04%
  other: 93.81% (2005)

Austria
  arable land: 16.59%
  permanent crops: 0.85%
  other: 82.56% (2005)

Azerbaijan
  arable land: 20.62%
  permanent crops: 2.61%
  other: 76.77% (2005)

Bahamas, The
  arable land: 0.58%
  permanent crops: 0.29%
  other: 99.13% (2005)

Bahrain
  arable land: 2.82%
  permanent crops: 5.63%
  other: 91.55% (2005)

Bangladesh
  arable land: 55.39%
  permanent crops: 3.08%
  other: 41.53% (2005)

Barbados
  arable land: 37.21%
  permanent crops: 2.33%
  other: 60.46% (2005)

Belarus
  arable land: 26.77%
  permanent crops: 0.6%
  other: 72.63% (2005)

Belgium
  arable land: 27.42%
  permanent crops: 0.69%
  other: 71.89%
  note: includes Luxembourg (2005)

Belize
  arable land: 3.05%
  permanent crops: 1.39%
  other: 95.56% (2005)

Benin
  arable land: 23.53%
  permanent crops: 2.37%
  other: 74.1% (2005)

Bermuda
  arable land: 20%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 80% (55% developed, 45% rural/open space) (2005)

Bhutan
  arable land: 2.3%
  permanent crops: 0.43%
  other: 97.27% (2005)

Bolivia
  arable land: 2.78%
  permanent crops: 0.19%
  other: 97.03% (2005)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  arable land: 19.61%
  permanent crops: 1.89%
  other: 78.5% (2005)

Botswana
  arable land: 0.65%
  permanent crops: 0.01%
  other: 99.34% (2005)

Bouvet Island
  arable land: 0%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 100% (93% ice) (2005)

Brazil
  arable land: 6.93%
  permanent crops: 0.89%
  other: 92.18% (2005)

British Indian Ocean Territory
  arable land: 0%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 100% (2005)

British Virgin Islands
  arable land: 20%
  permanent crops: 6.67%
  other: 73.33% (2005)

Brunei
  arable land: 2.08%
  permanent crops: 0.87%
  other: 97.05% (2005)

Bulgaria
  arable land: 29.94%
  permanent crops: 1.9%
  other: 68.16% (2005)

Burkina Faso
  arable land: 17.66%
  permanent crops: 0.22%
  other: 82.12% (2005)

Burma
  arable land: 14.92%
  permanent crops: 1.31%
  other: 83.77% (2005)

Burundi
  arable land: 35.57%
  permanent crops: 13.12%
  other: 51.31% (2005)

Cambodia
  arable land: 20.44%
  permanent crops: 0.59%
  other: 78.97% (2005)

Cameroon
  arable land: 12.54%
  permanent crops: 2.52%
  other: 84.94% (2005)

Canada
  arable land: 4.57%
  permanent crops: 0.65%
  other: 94.78% (2005)

Cape Verde
  arable land: 11.41%
  permanent crops: 0.74%
  other: 87.85% (2005)

Cayman Islands
  arable land: 3.85%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 96.15% (2005)

Central African Republic
  arable land: 3.1%
  permanent crops: 0.15%
  other: 96.75% (2005)

Chad
  arable land: 2.8%
  permanent crops: 0.02%
  other: 97.18% (2005)

Chile
  arable land: 2.62%
  permanent crops: 0.43%
  other: 96.95% (2005)

China
  arable land: 14.86%
  permanent crops: 1.27%
  other: 83.87% (2005)

Christmas Island
  arable land: 0%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 100% (mainly tropical rainforest; 63% of the island is a
  national park) (2005)

Clipperton Island
  arable land: 0%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 100% (all coral) (2005)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  arable land: 0%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 100% (2005)

Colombia
  arable land: 2.01%
  permanent crops: 1.37%
  other: 96.62% (2005)

Comoros
  arable land: 35.87%
  permanent crops: 23.32%
  other: 40.81% (2005)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  arable land: 2.86%
  permanent crops: 0.47%
  other: 96.67% (2005)

Congo, Republic of the
  arable land: 1.45%
  permanent crops: 0.15%
  other: 98.4% (2005)

Cook Islands
  arable land: 16.67%
  permanent crops: 8.33%
  other: 75% (2005)

Coral Sea Islands
  arable land: 0%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 100% (mostly grass or scrub cover) (2005)

Costa Rica
  arable land: 4.4%
  permanent crops: 5.87%
  other: 89.73% (2005)

Cote d'Ivoire
  arable land: 10.23%
  permanent crops: 11.16%
  other: 78.61% (2005)

Croatia
  arable land: 25.82%
  permanent crops: 2.19%
  other: 71.99% (2005)

Cuba
  arable land: 27.63%
  permanent crops: 6.54%
  other: 65.83% (2005)

Cyprus
  arable land: 10.81%
  permanent crops: 4.32%
  other: 84.87% (2005)

Czech Republic
  arable land: 38.82%
  permanent crops: 3%
  other: 58.18% (2005)

Denmark
  arable land: 52.59%
  permanent crops: 0.19%
  other: 47.22% (2005)

Djibouti
  arable land: 0.04%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 99.96% (2005)

Dominica
  arable land: 6.67%
  permanent crops: 21.33%
  other: 72% (2005)

Dominican Republic
  arable land: 22.49%
  permanent crops: 10.26%
  other: 67.25% (2005)

Ecuador
  arable land: 5.71%
  permanent crops: 4.81%
  other: 89.48% (2005)

Egypt
  arable land: 2.92%
  permanent crops: 0.5%
  other: 96.58% (2005)

El Salvador
  arable land: 31.37%
  permanent crops: 11.88%
  other: 56.75% (2005)

Equatorial Guinea
  arable land: 4.63%
  permanent crops: 3.57%
  other: 91.8% (2005)

Eritrea
  arable land: 4.78%
  permanent crops: 0.03%
  other: 95.19% (2005)

Estonia
  arable land: 12.05%
  permanent crops: 0.35%
  other: 87.6% (2005)

Ethiopia
  arable land: 10.01%
  permanent crops: 0.65%
  other: 89.34% (2005)

European Union
  arable land: NA
  permanent crops: NA
  other: NA

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  arable land: 0%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 100% (99% permanent pastures, 1% other) (2005)

Faroe Islands
  arable land: 2.14%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 97.86% (2005)

Fiji
  arable land: 10.95%
  permanent crops: 4.65%
  other: 84.4% (2005)

Finland
  arable land: 6.54%
  permanent crops: 0.02%
  other: 93.44% (2005)

France
  arable land: 33.46%
  permanent crops: 2.03%
  other: 64.51%
  note: French Guiana - arable land 0.13%, permanent crops 0.04%,
  other 99.83% (90% forest, 10% other); Guadeloupe - arable land
  11.70%, permanent crops 2.92%, other 85.38%; Martinique - arable
  land 9.09%, permanent crops 10.0%, other 80.91%; Reunion - arable
  land 13.94%, permanent crops 1.59%, other 84.47% (2005)

French Polynesia
  arable land: 0.75%
  permanent crops: 5.5%
  other: 93.75% (2005)

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  Ile Amsterdam (Ile Amsterdam et
  Ile Saint-Paul) - 100% trees, grasses, ferns, and moss; Ile
  Saint-Paul (Ile Amsterdam et Ile Saint-Paul) - 100% grass, ferns,
  and moss; Iles Crozet - 100% tossock grass, heath, and fern; Iles
  Kerguelen - 100% tossock grass and Kerguelen cabbage; Bassas da
  India (Iles Eparses) - 100% rock, coral reef, and sand; Europa
  Island (Iles Eparses) - 100% mangrove swamp and dry woodlands;
  Glorioso Islands (Iles Eparses) - 100% lush vegetation and coconut
  palms; Juan de Nova Island (Iles Eparses) - 90% forest, 10% other;
  Tromelin Island (Iles Eparses) - 100% grasses and scattered brush
  (2005)

Gabon
  arable land: 1.21%
  permanent crops: 0.64%
  other: 98.15% (2005)

Gambia, The
  arable land: 27.88%
  permanent crops: 0.44%
  other: 71.68% (2005)

Gaza Strip
  arable land: 29%
  permanent crops: 21%
  other: 50% (2002)

Georgia
  arable land: 11.51%
  permanent crops: 3.79%
  other: 84.7% (2005)

Germany
  arable land: 33.13%
  permanent crops: 0.6%
  other: 66.27% (2005)

Ghana
  arable land: 17.54%
  permanent crops: 9.22%
  other: 73.24% (2005)

Gibraltar
  arable land: 0%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 100% (2005)

Greece
  arable land: 20.45%
  permanent crops: 8.59%
  other: 70.96% (2005)

Greenland
  arable land: 0%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 100% (2005)

Grenada
  arable land: 5.88%
  permanent crops: 29.41%
  other: 64.71% (2005)

Guam
  arable land: 3.64%
  permanent crops: 18.18%
  other: 78.18% (2005)

Guatemala
  arable land: 13.22%
  permanent crops: 5.6%
  other: 81.18% (2005)

Guernsey
  arable land: NA
  permanent crops: NA
  other: NA

Guinea
  arable land: 4.47%
  permanent crops: 2.64%
  other: 92.89% (2005)

Guinea-Bissau
  arable land: 8.31%
  permanent crops: 6.92%
  other: 84.77% (2005)

Guyana
  arable land: 2.23%
  permanent crops: 0.14%
  other: 97.63% (2005)

Haiti
  arable land: 28.11%
  permanent crops: 11.53%
  other: 60.36% (2005)

Heard Island and McDonald Islands
  arable land: 0%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 100% (2005)

Holy See (Vatican City)
  arable land: 0%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 100% (urban area) (2005)

Honduras
  arable land: 9.53%
  permanent crops: 3.21%
  other: 87.26% (2005)

Hong Kong
  arable land: 5.05%
  permanent crops: 1.01%
  other: 93.94% (2001)

Hungary
  arable land: 49.58%
  permanent crops: 2.06%
  other: 48.36% (2005)

Iceland
  arable land: 0.07%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 99.93% (2005)

India
  arable land: 48.83%
  permanent crops: 2.8%
  other: 48.37% (2005)

Indonesia
  arable land: 11.03%
  permanent crops: 7.04%
  other: 81.93% (2005)

Iran
  arable land: 9.78%
  permanent crops: 1.29%
  other: 88.93% (2005)

Iraq
  arable land: 13.12%
  permanent crops: 0.61%
  other: 86.27% (2005)

Ireland
  arable land: 16.82%
  permanent crops: 0.03%
  other: 83.15% (2005)

Isle of Man
  arable land: 9%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 91% (permanent pastures, forests, mountain, and heathland)
  (2002)

Israel
  arable land: 15.45%
  permanent crops: 3.88%
  other: 80.67% (2005)

Italy
  arable land: 26.41%
  permanent crops: 9.09%
  other: 64.5% (2005)

Jamaica
  arable land: 15.83%
  permanent crops: 10.01%
  other: 74.16% (2005)

Jan Mayen
  arable land: 0%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 100% (2005)

Japan
  arable land: 11.64%
  permanent crops: 0.9%
  other: 87.46% (2005)

Jersey
  arable land: 0%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 100% (2005)

Jordan
  arable land: 3.32%
  permanent crops: 1.18%
  other: 95.5% (2005)

Kazakhstan
  arable land: 8.28%
  permanent crops: 0.05%
  other: 91.67% (2005)

Kenya
  arable land: 8.01%
  permanent crops: 0.97%
  other: 91.02% (2005)

Kiribati
  arable land: 2.74%
  permanent crops: 47.95%
  other: 49.31% (2005)

Korea, North
  arable land: 22.4%
  permanent crops: 1.66%
  other: 75.94% (2005)

Korea, South
  arable land: 16.58%
  permanent crops: 2.01%
  other: 81.41% (2005)

Kuwait
  arable land: 0.84%
  permanent crops: 0.17%
  other: 98.99% (2005)

Kyrgyzstan
  arable land: 6.55%
  permanent crops: 0.28%
  other: 93.17%
  note: Kyrgyzstan has the world's largest natural-growth walnut
  forest (2005)

Laos
  arable land: 4.01%
  permanent crops: 0.34%
  other: 95.65% (2005)

Latvia
  arable land: 28.19%
  permanent crops: 0.45%
  other: 71.36% (2005)

Lebanon
  arable land: 16.35%
  permanent crops: 13.75%
  other: 69.9% (2005)

Lesotho
  arable land: 10.87%
  permanent crops: 0.13%
  other: 89% (2005)

Liberia
  arable land: 3.43%
  permanent crops: 1.98%
  other: 94.59% (2005)

Libya
  arable land: 1.03%
  permanent crops: 0.19%
  other: 98.78% (2005)

Liechtenstein
  arable land: 25%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 75% (2005)

Lithuania
  arable land: 44.81%
  permanent crops: 0.9%
  other: 54.29% (2005)

Luxembourg
  arable land: 27.42%
  permanent crops: 0.69%
  other: 71.89% (includes Belgium) (2005)

Macau
  arable land: 0%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 100% (2005)

Macedonia
  arable land: 22.01%
  permanent crops: 1.79%
  other: 76.2% (2005)

Madagascar
  arable land: 5.03%
  permanent crops: 1.02%
  other: 93.95% (2005)

Malawi
  arable land: 20.68%
  permanent crops: 1.18%
  other: 78.14% (2005)

Malaysia
  arable land: 5.46%
  permanent crops: 17.54%
  other: 77% (2005)

Maldives
  arable land: 13.33%
  permanent crops: 30%
  other: 56.67% (2005)

Mali
  arable land: 3.76%
  permanent crops: 0.03%
  other: 96.21% (2005)

Malta
  arable land: 31.25%
  permanent crops: 3.13%
  other: 65.62% (2005)

Marshall Islands
  arable land: 11.11%
  permanent crops: 44.44%
  other: 44.45% (2005)

Mauritania
  arable land: 0.2%
  permanent crops: 0.01%
  other: 99.79% (2005)

Mauritius
  arable land: 49.02%
  permanent crops: 2.94%
  other: 48.04% (2005)

Mayotte
  arable land: NA%
  permanent crops: NA%
  other: NA%

Mexico
  arable land: 12.66%
  permanent crops: 1.28%
  other: 86.06% (2005)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  arable land: 5.71%
  permanent crops: 45.71%
  other: 48.58% (2005)

Moldova
  arable land: 54.52%
  permanent crops: 8.81%
  other: 36.67% (2005)

Monaco
  arable land: 0%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 100% (urban area) (2005)

Mongolia
  arable land: 0.76%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 99.24% (2005)

Montenegro
  arable land: 13.7%
  permanent crops: 1%
  other: 85.3%

Montserrat
  arable land: 20%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 80% (2005)

Morocco
  arable land: 19%
  permanent crops: 2%
  other: 79% (2005)

Mozambique
  arable land: 5.43%
  permanent crops: 0.29%
  other: 94.28% (2005)

Namibia
  arable land: 0.99%
  permanent crops: 0.01%
  other: 99% (2005)

Nauru
  arable land: 0%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 100% (2005)

Navassa Island
  arable land: 0%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 100% (2005)

Nepal
  arable land: 16.07%
  permanent crops: 0.85%
  other: 83.08% (2005)

Netherlands
  arable land: 21.96%
  permanent crops: 0.77%
  other: 77.27% (2005)

Netherlands Antilles
  arable land: 10%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 90% (2005)

New Caledonia
  arable land: 0.32%
  permanent crops: 0.22%
  other: 99.46% (2005)

New Zealand
  arable land: 5.54%
  permanent crops: 6.92%
  other: 87.54% (2005)

Nicaragua
  arable land: 14.81%
  permanent crops: 1.82%
  other: 83.37% (2005)

Niger
  arable land: 11.43%
  permanent crops: 0.01%
  other: 88.56% (2005)

Nigeria
  arable land: 33.02%
  permanent crops: 3.14%
  other: 63.84% (2005)

Niue
  arable land: 11.54%
  permanent crops: 15.38%
  other: 73.08% (2005)

Norfolk Island
  arable land: 0%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 100% (2005)

Northern Mariana Islands
  arable land: 13.04%
  permanent crops: 4.35%
  other: 82.61% (2005)

Norway
  arable land: 2.7%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 97.3% (2005)

Oman
  arable land: 0.12%
  permanent crops: 0.14%
  other: 99.74% (2005)

Pakistan
  arable land: 24.44%
  permanent crops: 0.84%
  other: 74.72% (2005)

Palau
  arable land: 8.7%
  permanent crops: 4.35%
  other: 86.95% (2005)

Panama
  arable land: 7.26%
  permanent crops: 1.95%
  other: 90.79% (2005)

Papua New Guinea
  arable land: 0.49%
  permanent crops: 1.4%
  other: 98.11% (2005)

Paracel Islands
  arable land: 0%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 100% (2005)

Paraguay
  arable land: 7.47%
  permanent crops: 0.24%
  other: 92.29% (2005)

Peru
  arable land: 2.88%
  permanent crops: 0.47%
  other: 96.65% (2005)

Philippines
  arable land: 19%
  permanent crops: 16.67%
  other: 64.33% (2005)

Pitcairn Islands
  arable land: NA
  permanent crops: NA
  other: NA

Poland
  arable land: 40.25%
  permanent crops: 1%
  other: 58.75% (2005)

Portugal
  arable land: 17.29%
  permanent crops: 7.84%
  other: 74.87% (2005)

Puerto Rico
  arable land: 3.69%
  permanent crops: 5.59%
  other: 90.72% (2005)

Qatar
  arable land: 1.64%
  permanent crops: 0.27%
  other: 98.09% (2005)

Romania
  arable land: 39.49%
  permanent crops: 1.92%
  other: 58.59% (2005)

Russia
  arable land: 7.17%
  permanent crops: 0.11%
  other: 92.72% (2005)

Rwanda
  arable land: 45.56%
  permanent crops: 10.25%
  other: 44.19% (2005)

Saint Helena
  arable land: 12.9%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 87.1% (2005)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  arable land: 19.44%
  permanent crops: 2.78%
  other: 77.78% (2005)

Saint Lucia
  arable land: 6.45%
  permanent crops: 22.58%
  other: 70.97% (2005)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  arable land: 12.5%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 87.5% (2005)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  arable land: 17.95%
  permanent crops: 17.95%
  other: 64.1% (2005)

Samoa
  arable land: 21.13%
  permanent crops: 24.3%
  other: 54.57% (2005)

San Marino
  arable land: 16.67%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 83.33% (2005)

Sao Tome and Principe
  arable land: 8.33%
  permanent crops: 48.96%
  other: 42.71% (2005)

Saudi Arabia
  arable land: 1.67%
  permanent crops: 0.09%
  other: 98.24% (2005)

Senegal
  arable land: 12.51%
  permanent crops: 0.24%
  other: 87.25% (2005)

Serbia
  arable land: NA
  permanent crops: NA
  other: NA

Seychelles
  arable land: 2.17%
  permanent crops: 13.04%
  other: 84.79% (2005)

Sierra Leone
  arable land: 7.95%
  permanent crops: 1.05%
  other: 91% (2005)

Singapore
  arable land: 1.47%
  permanent crops: 1.47%
  other: 97.06% (2005)

Slovakia
  arable land: 29.23%
  permanent crops: 2.67%
  other: 68.1% (2005)

Slovenia
  arable land: 8.53%
  permanent crops: 1.43%
  other: 90.04% (2005)

Solomon Islands
  arable land: 0.62%
  permanent crops: 2.04%
  other: 97.34% (2005)

Somalia
  arable land: 1.64%
  permanent crops: 0.04%
  other: 98.32% (2005)

South Africa
  arable land: 12.1%
  permanent crops: 0.79%
  other: 87.11% (2005)

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  arable land: 0%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 100% (largely covered by permanent ice and snow with some
  sparse vegetation consisting of grass, moss, and lichen) (2005)

Spain
  arable land: 27.18%
  permanent crops: 9.85%
  other: 62.97% (2005)

Spratly Islands
  arable land: 0%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 100% (2005)

Sri Lanka
  arable land: 13.96%
  permanent crops: 15.24%
  other: 70.8% (2005)

Sudan
  arable land: 6.78%
  permanent crops: 0.17%
  other: 93.05% (2005)

Suriname
  arable land: 0.36%
  permanent crops: 0.06%
  other: 99.58% (2005)

Svalbard
  arable land: 0%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 100% (no trees; the only bushes are crowberry and cloudberry)
  (2005)

Swaziland
  arable land: 10.25%
  permanent crops: 0.81%
  other: 88.94% (2005)

Sweden
  arable land: 5.93%
  permanent crops: 0.01%
  other: 94.06% (2005)

Switzerland
  arable land: 9.91%
  permanent crops: 0.58%
  other: 89.51% (2005)

Syria
  arable land: 24.8%
  permanent crops: 4.47%
  other: 70.73% (2005)

Taiwan
  arable land: 24%
  permanent crops: 1%
  other: 75% (2001)

Tajikistan
  arable land: 6.52%
  permanent crops: 0.89%
  other: 92.59% (2005)

Tanzania
  arable land: 4.23%
  permanent crops: 1.16%
  other: 94.61% (2005)

Thailand
  arable land: 27.54%
  permanent crops: 6.93%
  other: 65.53% (2005)

Timor-Leste
  arable land: 8.2%
  permanent crops: 4.57%
  other: 87.23% (2005)

Togo
  arable land: 44.2%
  permanent crops: 2.11%
  other: 53.69% (2005)

Tokelau
  arable land: 0% (soil is thin and infertile)
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 100% (2005)

Tonga
  arable land: 20%
  permanent crops: 14.67%
  other: 65.33% (2005)

Trinidad and Tobago
  arable land: 14.62%
  permanent crops: 9.16%
  other: 76.22% (2005)

Tunisia
  arable land: 17.05%
  permanent crops: 13.08%
  other: 69.87% (2005)

Turkey
  arable land: 29.81%
  permanent crops: 3.39%
  other: 66.8% (2005)

Turkmenistan
  arable land: 4.51%
  permanent crops: 0.14%
  other: 95.35% (2005)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  arable land: 2.33%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 97.67% (2005)

Tuvalu
  arable land: 0%
  permanent crops: 66.67%
  other: 33.33% (2005)

Uganda
  arable land: 21.57%
  permanent crops: 8.92%
  other: 69.51% (2005)

Ukraine
  arable land: 53.8%
  permanent crops: 1.5%
  other: 44.7% (2005)

United Arab Emirates
  arable land: 0.77%
  permanent crops: 2.27%
  other: 96.96% (2005)

United Kingdom
  arable land: 23.23%
  permanent crops: 0.2%
  other: 76.57% (2005)

United States
  arable land: 18.01%
  permanent crops: 0.21%
  other: 81.78% (2005)

United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
  arable land: 0%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 100% (2008)

Uruguay
  arable land: 7.77%
  permanent crops: 0.24%
  other: 91.99% (2005)

Uzbekistan
  arable land: 10.51%
  permanent crops: 0.76%
  other: 88.73% (2005)

Vanuatu
  arable land: 1.64%
  permanent crops: 6.97%
  other: 91.39% (2005)

Venezuela
  arable land: 2.85%
  permanent crops: 0.88%
  other: 96.27% (2005)

Vietnam
  arable land: 20.14%
  permanent crops: 6.93%
  other: 72.93% (2005)

Virgin Islands
  arable land: 5.71%
  permanent crops: 2.86%
  other: 91.43% (2005)

Wake Island
  arable land: 0%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 100% (2005)

Wallis and Futuna
  arable land: 7.14%
  permanent crops: 35.71%
  other: 57.15% (2005)

West Bank
  arable land: 16.9%
  permanent crops: 18.97%
  other: 64.13% (2001)

Western Sahara
  arable land: 0.02%
  permanent crops: 0%
  other: 99.98% (2005)

World
  arable land: 10.57%
  permanent crops: 1.04%
  other: 88.38% (2005)

Yemen
  arable land: 2.91%
  permanent crops: 0.25%
  other: 96.84% (2005)

Zambia
  arable land: 6.99%
  permanent crops: 0.04%
  other: 92.97% (2005)

Zimbabwe
  arable land: 8.24%
  permanent crops: 0.33%
  other: 91.43% (2005)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2098  Languages (%)


Afghanistan
  Afghan Persian or Dari (official) 50%, Pashto (official)
  35%, Turkic languages (primarily Uzbek and Turkmen) 11%, 30 minor
  languages (primarily Balochi and Pashai) 4%, much bilingualism

Akrotiri
  English, Greek

Albania
  Albanian (official - derived from Tosk dialect), Greek,
  Vlach, Romani, Slavic dialects

Algeria
  Arabic (official), French, Berber dialects

American Samoa
  Samoan 90.6% (closely related to Hawaiian and other
  Polynesian languages), English 2.9%, Tongan 2.4%, other Pacific
  islander 2.1%, other 2%
  note: most people are bilingual (2000 census)

Andorra
  Catalan (official), French, Castilian, Portuguese

Angola
  Portuguese (official), Bantu and other African languages

Anguilla
  English (official)

Antigua and Barbuda
  English (official), local dialects

Argentina
  Spanish (official), Italian, English, German, French

Armenia
  Armenian 97.7%, Yezidi 1%, Russian 0.9%, other 0.4% (2001
  census)

Aruba
  Papiamento (a Spanish-Portuguese-Dutch-English dialect) 66.3%,
  Spanish 12.6%, English (widely spoken) 7.7%, Dutch (official) 5.8%,
  other 2.2%, unspecified or unknown 5.3% (2000 census)

Australia
  English 79.1%, Chinese 2.1%, Italian 1.9%, other 11.1%,
  unspecified 5.8% (2001 Census)

Austria
  German (official nationwide) 88.6%, Turkish 2.3%, Serbian
  2.2%, Croatian (official in Burgenland) 1.6%, other (includes
  Slovene, official in Carinthia, and Hungarian, official in
  Burgenland) 5.3% (2001 census)

Azerbaijan
  Azerbaijani (Azeri) 90.3%, Lezgi 2.2%, Russian 1.8%,
  Armenian 1.5%, other 3.3%, unspecified 1% (1999 census)

Bahamas, The
  English (official), Creole (among Haitian immigrants)

Bahrain
  Arabic, English, Farsi, Urdu

Bangladesh
  Bangla (official, also known as Bengali), English

Barbados
  English

Belarus
  Belarusian, Russian, other

Belgium
  Dutch (official) 60%, French (official) 40%, German
  (official) less than 1%, legally bilingual (Dutch and French)

Belize
  Spanish 46%, Creole 32.9%, Mayan dialects 8.9%, English 3.9%
  (official), Garifuna 3.4% (Carib), German 3.3%, other 1.4%, unknown
  0.2% (2000 census)

Benin
  French (official), Fon and Yoruba (most common vernaculars in
  south), tribal languages (at least six major ones in north)

Bermuda
  English (official), Portuguese

Bhutan
  Dzongkha (official), Bhotes speak various Tibetan dialects,
  Nepalese speak various Nepalese dialects

Bolivia
  Spanish 60.7% (official), Quechua 21.2% (official), Aymara
  14.6% (official), foreign languages 2.4%, other 1.2% (2001 census)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  Bosnian, Croatian, Serbian

Botswana
  Setswana 78.2%, Kalanga 7.9%, Sekgalagadi 2.8%, English
  2.1% (official), other 8.6%, unspecified 0.4% (2001 census)

Brazil
  Portuguese (official and most widely spoken language); note -
  less common languages include Spanish (border areas and schools),
  German, Italian, Japanese, English, and a large number of minor
  Amerindian languages

British Virgin Islands
  English (official)

Brunei
  Malay (official), English, Chinese

Bulgaria
  Bulgarian 84.5%, Turkish 9.6%, Roma 4.1%, other and
  unspecified 1.8% (2001 census)

Burkina Faso
  French (official), native African languages belonging
  to Sudanic family spoken by 90% of the population

Burma
  Burmese, minority ethnic groups have their own languages

Burundi
  Kirundi (official), French (official), Swahili (along Lake
  Tanganyika and in the Bujumbura area)

Cambodia
  Khmer (official) 95%, French, English

Cameroon
  24 major African language groups, English (official),
  French (official)

Canada
  English (official) 59.3%, French (official) 23.2%, other 17.5%

Cape Verde
  Portuguese, Crioulo (a blend of Portuguese and West
  African words)

Cayman Islands
  English 95%, Spanish 3.2%, other 1.8% (1999 census)

Central African Republic
  French (official), Sangho (lingua franca
  and national language), tribal languages

Chad
  French (official), Arabic (official), Sara (in south), more
  than 120 different languages and dialects

Chile
  Spanish (official), Mapudungun, German, English

China
  Standard Chinese or Mandarin (Putonghua, based on the Beijing
  dialect), Yue (Cantonese), Wu (Shanghainese), Minbei (Fuzhou),
  Minnan (Hokkien-Taiwanese), Xiang, Gan, Hakka dialects, minority
  languages (see Ethnic groups entry)

Christmas Island
  English (official), Chinese, Malay

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  Malay (Cocos dialect), English

Colombia
  Spanish

Comoros
  Arabic (official), French (official), Shikomoro (a blend of
  Swahili and Arabic)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  French (official), Lingala (a
  lingua franca trade language), Kingwana (a dialect of Kiswahili or
  Swahili), Kikongo, Tshiluba

Congo, Republic of the
  French (official), Lingala and Monokutuba
  (lingua franca trade languages), many local languages and dialects
  (of which Kikongo is the most widespread)

Cook Islands
  English (official), Maori

Costa Rica
  Spanish (official), English

Cote d'Ivoire
  French (official), 60 native dialects with Dioula the
  most widely spoken

Croatia
  Croatian 96.1%, Serbian 1%, other and undesignated 2.9%
  (including Italian, Hungarian, Czech, Slovak, and German) (2001
  census)

Cuba
  Spanish

Cyprus
  Greek, Turkish, English

Czech Republic
  Czech 94.9%, Slovak 2%, other 2.3%, unidentified 0.8%
  (2001 census)

Denmark
  Danish, Faroese, Greenlandic (an Inuit dialect), German
  (small minority)
  note: English is the predominant second language

Dhekelia
  English, Greek

Djibouti
  French (official), Arabic (official), Somali, Afar

Dominica
  English (official), French patois

Dominican Republic
  Spanish

Ecuador
  Spanish (official), Amerindian languages (especially Quechua)

Egypt
  Arabic (official), English and French widely understood by
  educated classes

El Salvador
  Spanish, Nahua (among some Amerindians)

Equatorial Guinea
  Spanish 67.6% (official), other 32.4% (includes
  French (official), Fang, Bubi) (1994 census)

Eritrea
  Afar, Arabic, Tigre and Kunama, Tigrinya, other Cushitic
  languages

Estonia
  Estonian (official) 67.3%, Russian 29.7%, other 2.3%,
  unknown 0.7% (2000 census)

Ethiopia
  Amarigna 32.7%, Oromigna 31.6%, Tigrigna 6.1%, Somaligna
  6%, Guaragigna 3.5%, Sidamigna 3.5%, Hadiyigna 1.7%, other 14.8%,
  English (major foreign language taught in schools) (1994 census)

European Union
  Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian,
  Finnish, French, Gaelic, German, Greek, Hungarian, Italian, Latvian,
  Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Slovak, Slovene,
  Spanish, Swedish
  note: only official languages are listed; German, the major language
  of Germany, Austria, and Switzerland, is the most widely spoken
  mother tongue - over 19% of the EU population; English is the most
  widely spoken language - about 49% of the EU population is
  conversant with it (2007)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  English

Faroe Islands
  Faroese (derived from Old Norse), Danish

Fiji
  English (official), Fijian (official), Hindustani

Finland
  Finnish 91.5% (official), Swedish 5.5% (official), other 3%
  (small Sami- and Russian-speaking minorities) (2006)

France
  French 100%, rapidly declining regional dialects and
  languages (Provencal, Breton, Alsatian, Corsican, Catalan, Basque,
  Flemish)
  overseas departments: French, Creole patois

French Polynesia
  French 61.1% (official), Polynesian 31.4%
  (official), Asian languages 1.2%, other 0.3%, unspecified 6% (2002
  census)

Gabon
  French (official), Fang, Myene, Nzebi, Bapounou/Eschira,
  Bandjabi

Gambia, The
  English (official), Mandinka, Wolof, Fula, other
  indigenous vernaculars

Gaza Strip
  Arabic, Hebrew (spoken by many Palestinians), English
  (widely understood)

Georgia
  Georgian 71% (official), Russian 9%, Armenian 7%, Azeri 6%,
  other 7%
  note: Abkhaz is the official language in Abkhazia

Germany
  German

Ghana
  Asante 14.8%, Ewe 12.7%, Fante 9.9%, Boron (Brong) 4.6%,
  Dagomba 4.3%, Dangme 4.3%, Dagarte (Dagaba) 3.7%, Akyem 3.4%, Ga
  3.4%, Akuapem 2.9%, other 36.1% (includes English (official)) (2000
  census)

Gibraltar
  English (used in schools and for official purposes),
  Spanish, Italian, Portuguese

Greece
  Greek 99% (official), other 1% (includes English and French)

Greenland
  Greenlandic (East Inuit), Danish, English

Grenada
  English (official), French patois

Guam
  English 38.3%, Chamorro 22.2%, Philippine languages 22.2%,
  other Pacific island languages 6.8%, Asian languages 7%, other
  languages 3.5% (2000 census)

Guatemala
  Spanish 60%, Amerindian languages 40% (23 officially
  recognized Amerindian languages, including Quiche, Cakchiquel,
  Kekchi, Mam, Garifuna, and Xinca)

Guernsey
  English, French, Norman-French dialect spoken in country
  districts

Guinea
  French (official); note - each ethnic group has its own
  language

Guinea-Bissau
  Portuguese (official), Crioulo, African languages

Guyana
  English, Amerindian dialects, Creole, Caribbean Hindustani (a
  dialect of Hindi), Urdu

Haiti
  French (official), Creole (official)

Holy See (Vatican City)
  Italian, Latin, French, various other
  languages

Honduras
  Spanish, Amerindian dialects

Hong Kong
  Chinese (Cantonese) 89.2% (official), other Chinese
  dialects 6.4%, English 3.2% (official), other 1.2% (2001 census)

Hungary
  Hungarian 93.6%, other or unspecified 6.4% (2001 census)

Iceland
  Icelandic, English, Nordic languages, German widely spoken

India
  Hindi 41%, Bengali 8.1%, Telugu 7.2%, Marathi 7%, Tamil 5.9%,
  Urdu 5%, Gujarati 4.5%, Kannada 3.7%, Malayalam 3.2%, Oriya 3.2%,
  Punjabi 2.8%, Assamese 1.3%, Maithili 1.2%, other 5.9%
  note: English enjoys associate status but is the most important
  language for national, political, and commercial communication;
  Hindi is the national language and primary tongue of 41% of the
  people; there are 14 other official languages: Bengali, Telugu,
  Marathi, Tamil, Urdu, Gujarati, Malayalam, Kannada, Oriya, Punjabi,
  Assamese, Kashmiri, Sindhi, and Sanskrit; Hindustani is a popular
  variant of Hindi/Urdu spoken widely throughout northern India but is
  not an official language (2001 census)

Indonesia
  Bahasa Indonesia (official, modified form of Malay),
  English, Dutch, local dialects (the most widely spoken of which is
  Javanese)

Iran
  Persian and Persian dialects 58%, Turkic and Turkic dialects
  26%, Kurdish 9%, Luri 2%, Balochi 1%, Arabic 1%, Turkish 1%, other 2%

Iraq
  Arabic, Kurdish (official in Kurdish regions), Turkoman (a
  Turkish dialect), Assyrian (Neo-Aramaic), Armenian

Ireland
  English (official) is the language generally used, Irish
  (Gaelic or Gaeilge) (official) spoken mainly in areas located along
  the western seaboard

Isle of Man
  English, Manx Gaelic

Israel
  Hebrew (official), Arabic used officially for Arab minority,
  English most commonly used foreign language

Italy
  Italian (official), German (parts of Trentino-Alto Adige
  region are predominantly German speaking), French (small
  French-speaking minority in Valle d'Aosta region), Slovene
  (Slovene-speaking minority in the Trieste-Gorizia area)

Jamaica
  English, English patois

Japan
  Japanese

Jersey
  English 94.5% (official), Portuguese 4.6%, other 0.9% (2001
  census)

Jordan
  Arabic (official), English widely understood among upper and
  middle classes

Kazakhstan
  Kazakh (Qazaq, state language) 64.4%, Russian (official,
  used in everyday business, designated the "language of interethnic
  communication") 95% (2001 est.)

Kenya
  English (official), Kiswahili (official), numerous indigenous
  languages

Kiribati
  I-Kiribati, English (official)

Korea, North
  Korean

Korea, South
  Korean, English widely taught in junior high and high
  school

Kosovo
  Albanian (official), Serbian (official), Bosnian, Turkish,
  Roma

Kuwait
  Arabic (official), English widely spoken

Kyrgyzstan
  Kyrgyz 64.7% (official), Uzbek 13.6%, Russian 12.5%
  (official), Dungun 1%, other 8.2% (1999 census)

Laos
  Lao (official), French, English, and various ethnic languages

Latvia
  Latvian (official) 58.2%, Russian 37.5%, Lithuanian and other
  4.3% (2000 census)

Lebanon
  Arabic (official), French, English, Armenian

Lesotho
  Sesotho (southern Sotho), English (official), Zulu, Xhosa

Liberia
  English 20% (official), some 20 ethnic group languages, of
  which a few can be written and are used in correspondence

Libya
  Arabic, Italian, English, all are widely understood in the
  major cities

Liechtenstein
  German (official), Alemannic dialect

Lithuania
  Lithuanian (official) 82%, Russian 8%, Polish 5.6%, other
  and unspecified 4.4% (2001 census)

Luxembourg
  Luxembourgish (national language), German (administrative
  language), French (administrative language)

Macau
  Cantonese 85.7%, Hokkien 4%, Mandarin 3.2%, other Chinese
  dialects 2.7%, English 1.5%, Tagalog 1.3%, other 1.6% (2001 census)

Macedonia
  Macedonian 66.5%, Albanian 25.1%, Turkish 3.5%, Roma 1.9%,
  Serbian 1.2%, other 1.8% (2002 census)

Madagascar
  English (official), French (official), Malagasy (official)

Malawi
  Chichewa 57.2% (official), Chinyanja 12.8%, Chiyao 10.1%,
  Chitumbuka 9.5%, Chisena 2.7%, Chilomwe 2.4%, Chitonga 1.7%, other
  3.6% (1998 census)

Malaysia
  Bahasa Malaysia (official), English, Chinese (Cantonese,
  Mandarin, Hokkien, Hakka, Hainan, Foochow), Tamil, Telugu,
  Malayalam, Panjabi, Thai
  note: in East Malaysia there are several indigenous languages; most
  widely spoken are Iban and Kadazan

Maldives
  Maldivian Dhivehi (dialect of Sinhala, script derived from
  Arabic), English spoken by most government officials

Mali
  French (official), Bambara 80%, numerous African languages

Malta
  Maltese (official) 90.2%, English (official) 6%, multilingual
  3%, other 0.8% (2005 census)

Marshall Islands
  Marshallese (official) 98.2%, other languages 1.8%
  (1999 census)
  note: English (official), widely spoken as a second language

Mauritania
  Arabic (official and national), Pulaar, Soninke, Wolof
  (all national languages), French, Hassaniya

Mauritius
  Creole 80.5%, Bhojpuri 12.1%, French 3.4%, English
  (official; spoken by less than 1% of the population), other 3.7%,
  unspecified 0.3% (2000 census)

Mayotte
  Mahorian (a Swahili dialect), French (official language)
  spoken by 35% of the population

Mexico
  Spanish only 92.7%, Spanish and indigenous languages 5.7%,
  indigenous only 0.8%, unspecified 0.8%; note - indigenous languages
  include various Mayan, Nahuatl, and other regional languages (2005)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  English (official and common
  language), Chuukese, Kosrean, Pohnpeian, Yapese, Ulithian, Woleaian,
  Nukuoro, Kapingamarangi

Moldova
  Moldovan (official, virtually the same as the Romanian
  language), Russian, Gagauz (a Turkish dialect)

Monaco
  French (official), English, Italian, Monegasque

Mongolia
  Khalkha Mongol 90%, Turkic, Russian (1999)

Montenegro
  Serbian 63.6%, Montenegrin (official) 22%, Bosnian 5.5%,
  Albanian 5.3%, unspecified 3.7% (2003 census)

Montserrat
  English

Morocco
  Arabic (official), Berber dialects, French often the
  language of business, government, and diplomacy

Mozambique
  Emakhuwa 26.1%, Xichangana 11.3%, Portuguese 8.8%
  (official; spoken by 27% of population as a second language), Elomwe
  7.6%, Cisena 6.8%, Echuwabo 5.8%, other Mozambican languages 32%,
  other foreign languages 0.3%, unspecified 1.3% (1997 census)

Namibia
  English 7% (official), Afrikaans common language of most of
  the population and about 60% of the white population, German 32%,
  indigenous languages 1% (includes Oshivambo, Herero, Nama)

Nauru
  Nauruan (official; a distinct Pacific Island language),
  English widely understood, spoken, and used for most government and
  commercial purposes

Nepal
  Nepali 47.8%, Maithali 12.1%, Bhojpuri 7.4%, Tharu
  (Dagaura/Rana) 5.8%, Tamang 5.1%, Newar 3.6%, Magar 3.3%, Awadhi
  2.4%, other 10%, unspecified 2.5% (2001 census)
  note: many in government and business also speak English (2001 est.)

Netherlands
  Dutch (official), Frisian (official)

Netherlands Antilles
  Papiamento 65.4% (a
  Spanish-Portuguese-Dutch-English dialect), English 15.9% (widely
  spoken), Dutch 7.3% (official), Spanish 6.1%, Creole 1.6%, other
  1.9%, unspecified 1.8% (2001 census)

New Caledonia
  French (official), 33 Melanesian-Polynesian dialects

New Zealand
  English (official), Maori (official), Sign Language
  (official)

Nicaragua
  Spanish 97.5% (official), Miskito 1.7%, other 0.8% (1995
  census)
  note: English and indigenous languages on Atlantic coast

Niger
  French (official), Hausa, Djerma

Nigeria
  English (official), Hausa, Yoruba, Igbo (Ibo), Fulani

Niue
  Niuean, a Polynesian language closely related to Tongan and
  Samoan; English

Norfolk Island
  English (official), Norfolk - a mixture of 18th
  century English and ancient Tahitian

Northern Mariana Islands
  Philippine languages 24.4%, Chinese 23.4%,
  Chamorro 22.4%, English 10.8%, other Pacific island languages 9.5%,
  other 9.6% (2000 census)

Norway
  Bokmal Norwegian (official), Nynorsk Norwegian (official),
  small Sami- and Finnish-speaking minorities; note - Sami is official
  in six municipalities

Oman
  Arabic (official), English, Baluchi, Urdu, Indian dialects

Pakistan
  Punjabi 48%, Sindhi 12%, Siraiki (a Punjabi variant) 10%,
  Pashtu 8%, Urdu (official) 8%, Balochi 3%, Hindko 2%, Brahui 1%,
  English (official; lingua franca of Pakistani elite and most
  government ministries), Burushaski and other 8%

Palau
  Palauan 64.7% official in all islands except Sonsoral
  (Sonsoralese and English are official), Tobi (Tobi and English are
  official), and Angaur (Angaur, Japanese, and English are official),
  Filipino 13.5%, English 9.4%, Chinese 5.7%, Carolinian 1.5%,
  Japanese 1.5%, other Asian 2.3%, other languages 1.5% (2000 census)

Panama
  Spanish (official), English 14%; note - many Panamanians
  bilingual

Papua New Guinea
  Melanesian Pidgin serves as the lingua franca,
  English spoken by 1%-2%, Motu spoken in Papua region
  note: 820 indigenous languages spoken (over one-tenth of the world's
  total)

Paraguay
  Spanish (official), Guarani (official)

Peru
  Spanish (official), Quechua (official), Aymara, and a large
  number of minor Amazonian languages

Philippines
  Filipino (official; based on Tagalog) and English
  (official); eight major dialects - Tagalog, Cebuano, Ilocano,
  Hiligaynon or Ilonggo, Bicol, Waray, Pampango, and Pangasinan

Pitcairn Islands
  English (official), Pitkern (mixture of an 18th
  century English dialect and a Tahitian dialect)

Poland
  Polish 97.8%, other and unspecified 2.2% (2002 census)

Portugal
  Portuguese (official), Mirandese (official - but locally
  used)

Puerto Rico
  Spanish, English

Qatar
  Arabic (official), English commonly used as a second language

Romania
  Romanian 91% (official), Hungarian 6.7%, Romany (Gypsy)
  1.1%, other 1.2%

Russia
  Russian, many minority languages

Rwanda
  Kinyarwanda (official) universal Bantu vernacular, French
  (official), English (official), Kiswahili (Swahili) used in
  commercial centers

Saint Barthelemy
  French (primary), English

Saint Helena
  English

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  English

Saint Lucia
  English (official), French patois

Saint Martin
  French (official language), English, Dutch, French
  Patois, Spanish, Papiamento (dialect of Netherlands Antilles)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  French (official)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  English, French patois

Samoa
  Samoan (Polynesian), English

San Marino
  Italian

Sao Tome and Principe
  Portuguese (official)

Saudi Arabia
  Arabic

Senegal
  French (official), Wolof, Pulaar, Jola, Mandinka

Serbia
  Serbian 88.3% (official), Hungarian 3.8%, Bosniak 1.8%,
  Romany (Gypsy) 1.1%, other 4.1%, unknown 0.9% (2002 census)
  note: Romanian, Hungarian, Slovak, Ukrainian, and Croatian all
  official in Vojvodina

Seychelles
  Creole 91.8%, English 4.9% (official), other 3.1%,
  unspecified 0.2% (2002 census)

Sierra Leone
  English (official, regular use limited to literate
  minority), Mende (principal vernacular in the south), Temne
  (principal vernacular in the north), Krio (English-based Creole,
  spoken by the descendants of freed Jamaican slaves who were settled
  in the Freetown area, a lingua franca and a first language for 10%
  of the population but understood by 95%)

Singapore
  Mandarin 35%, English 23%, Malay 14.1%, Hokkien 11.4%,
  Cantonese 5.7%, Teochew 4.9%, Tamil 3.2%, other Chinese dialects
  1.8%, other 0.9% (2000 census)

Slovakia
  Slovak (official) 83.9%, Hungarian 10.7%, Roma 1.8%,
  Ukrainian 1%, other or unspecified 2.6% (2001 census)

Slovenia
  Slovenian 91.1%, Serbo-Croatian 4.5%, other or unspecified
  4.4% (2002 census)

Solomon Islands
  Melanesian pidgin in much of the country is lingua
  franca; English (official; but spoken by only 1%-2% of the
  population); 120 indigenous languages

Somalia
  Somali (official), Arabic, Italian, English

South Africa
  IsiZulu 23.8%, IsiXhosa 17.6%, Afrikaans 13.3%, Sepedi
  9.4%, English 8.2%, Setswana 8.2%, Sesotho 7.9%, Xitsonga 4.4%,
  other 7.2% (2001 census)

Spain
  Castilian Spanish (official) 74%, Catalan 17%, Galician 7%,
  Basque 2%, are official regionally

Sri Lanka
  Sinhala (official and national language) 74%, Tamil
  (national language) 18%, other 8%
  note: English is commonly used in government and is spoken
  competently by about 10% of the population

Sudan
  Arabic (official), English (official), Nubian, Ta Bedawie,
  diverse dialects of Nilotic, Nilo-Hamitic, Sudanic languages
  note: program of "Arabization" in process

Suriname
  Dutch (official), English (widely spoken), Sranang Tongo
  (Surinamese, sometimes called Taki-Taki, is native language of
  Creoles and much of the younger population and is lingua franca
  among others), Caribbean Hindustani (a dialect of Hindi), Javanese

Svalbard
  Norwegian, Russian

Swaziland
  English (official, government business conducted in
  English), siSwati (official)

Sweden
  Swedish, small Sami- and Finnish-speaking minorities

Switzerland
  German (official) 63.7%, French (official) 20.4%,
  Italian (official) 6.5%, Serbo-Croatian 1.5%, Albanian 1.3%,
  Portuguese 1.2%, Spanish 1.1%, English 1%, Romansch (official) 0.5%,
  other 2.8% (2000 census)
  note: German, French, Italian, and Romansch are all national and
  official languages

Syria
  Arabic (official); Kurdish, Armenian, Aramaic, Circassian
  widely understood; French, English somewhat understood

Taiwan
  Mandarin Chinese (official), Taiwanese (Min), Hakka dialects

Tajikistan
  Tajik (official), Russian widely used in government and
  business

Tanzania
  Kiswahili or Swahili (official), Kiunguja (name for Swahili
  in Zanzibar), English (official, primary language of commerce,
  administration, and higher education), Arabic (widely spoken in
  Zanzibar), many local languages
  note: Kiswahili (Swahili) is the mother tongue of the Bantu people
  living in Zanzibar and nearby coastal Tanzania; although Kiswahili
  is Bantu in structure and origin, its vocabulary draws on a variety
  of sources including Arabic and English; it has become the lingua
  franca of central and eastern Africa; the first language of most
  people is one of the local languages

Thailand
  Thai, English (secondary language of the elite), ethnic and
  regional dialects

Timor-Leste
  Tetum (official), Portuguese (official), Indonesian,
  English
  note: there are about 16 indigenous languages; Tetum, Galole,
  Mambae, and Kemak are spoken by significant numbers of people

Togo
  French (official and the language of commerce), Ewe and Mina
  (the two major African languages in the south), Kabye (sometimes
  spelled Kabiye) and Dagomba (the two major African languages in the
  north)

Tokelau
  Tokelauan (a Polynesian language), English

Tonga
  Tongan, English

Trinidad and Tobago
  English (official), Caribbean Hindustani (a
  dialect of Hindi), French, Spanish, Chinese

Tunisia
  Arabic (official and one of the languages of commerce),
  French (commerce)

Turkey
  Turkish (official), Kurdish, Dimli (or Zaza), Azeri, Kabardian
  note: there is also a substantial Gagauz population in the European
  part of Turkey

Turkmenistan
  Turkmen 72%, Russian 12%, Uzbek 9%, other 7%

Turks and Caicos Islands
  English (official)

Tuvalu
  Tuvaluan, English, Samoan, Kiribati (on the island of Nui)

Uganda
  English (official national language, taught in grade schools,
  used in courts of law and by most newspapers and some radio
  broadcasts), Ganda or Luganda (most widely used of the Niger-Congo
  languages, preferred for native language publications in the capital
  and may be taught in school), other Niger-Congo languages,
  Nilo-Saharan languages, Swahili, Arabic

Ukraine
  Ukrainian (official) 67%, Russian 24%, other 9% (includes
  small Romanian-, Polish-, and Hungarian-speaking minorities)

United Arab Emirates
  Arabic (official), Persian, English, Hindi, Urdu

United Kingdom
  English, Welsh (about 26% of the population of
  Wales), Scottish form of Gaelic (about 60,000 in Scotland)

United States
  English 82.1%, Spanish 10.7%, other Indo-European
  3.8%, Asian and Pacific island 2.7%, other 0.7% (2000 census)
  note: Hawaiian is an official language in the state of Hawaii

Uruguay
  Spanish, Portunol, or Brazilero (Portuguese-Spanish mix on
  the Brazilian frontier)

Uzbekistan
  Uzbek 74.3%, Russian 14.2%, Tajik 4.4%, other 7.1%

Vanuatu
  local languages (more than 100) 72.6%, pidgin (known as
  Bislama or Bichelama) 23.1%, English 1.9%, French 1.4%, other 0.3%,
  unspecified 0.7% (1999 Census)

Venezuela
  Spanish (official), numerous indigenous dialects

Vietnam
  Vietnamese (official), English (increasingly favored as a
  second language), some French, Chinese, and Khmer; mountain area
  languages (Mon-Khmer and Malayo-Polynesian)

Virgin Islands
  English 74.7%, Spanish or Spanish Creole 16.8%,
  French or French Creole 6.6%, other 1.9% (2000 census)

Wallis and Futuna
  Wallisian 58.9% (indigenous Polynesian language),
  Futunian 30.1%, French 10.8%, other 0.2% (2003 census)

West Bank
  Arabic, Hebrew (spoken by Israeli settlers and many
  Palestinians), English (widely understood)

Western Sahara
  Hassaniya Arabic, Moroccan Arabic

World
  Mandarin Chinese 13.22%, Spanish 4.88%, English 4.68%, Arabic
  3.12%, Hindi 2.74%, Portuguese 2.69%, Bengali 2.59%, Russian 2.2%,
  Japanese 1.85%, Standard German 1.44%, French 1.2% (2005 est.)
  note: percents are for "first language" speakers only

Yemen
  Arabic

Zambia
  English (official), major vernaculars - Bemba, Kaonda, Lozi,
  Lunda, Luvale, Nyanja, Tonga, and about 70 other indigenous languages

Zimbabwe
  English (official), Shona, Sindebele (the language of the
  Ndebele, sometimes called Ndebele), numerous but minor tribal
  dialects

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2100  Legal system


Afghanistan
  based on mixed civil and Sharia law; has not accepted
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Akrotiri
  the Sovereign Base Area Administration has its own court
  system to deal with civil and criminal matters; laws applicable to
  the Cypriot population are, as far as possible, the same as the laws
  of the Republic of Cyprus

Albania
  has a civil law system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction; has accepted jurisdiction of the International
  Criminal Court for its citizens

Algeria
  socialist, based on French and Islamic law; judicial review
  of legislative acts in ad hoc Constitutional Council composed of
  various public officials, including several Supreme Court justices;
  has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

American Samoa
  NA

Andorra
  based on French and Spanish civil codes; no judicial review
  of legislative acts; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Angola
  based on Portuguese civil law system and customary law;
  modified to accommodate political pluralism and increased use of
  free markets; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Anguilla
  based on English common law

Antarctica
  Antarctica is administered through meetings of the
  consultative member nations; decisions from these meetings are
  carried out by these member nations (with respect to their own
  nationals and operations) in accordance with their own national
  laws; US law, including certain criminal offenses by or against US
  nationals, such as murder, may apply extraterritorially; some US
  laws directly apply to Antarctica; for example, the Antarctic
  Conservation Act, 16 U.S.C. section 2401 et seq., provides civil and
  criminal penalties for the following activities, unless authorized
  by regulation of statute: the taking of native mammals or birds; the
  introduction of nonindigenous plants and animals; entry into
  specially protected areas; the discharge or disposal of pollutants;
  and the importation into the US of certain items from Antarctica;
  violation of the Antarctic Conservation Act carries penalties of up
  to $10,000 in fines and one year in prison; the National Science
  Foundation and Department of Justice share enforcement
  responsibilities; Public Law 95-541, the US Antarctic Conservation
  Act of 1978, as amended in 1996, requires expeditions from the US to
  Antarctica to notify, in advance, the Office of Oceans, Room 5805,
  Department of State, Washington, DC 20520, which reports such plans
  to other nations as required by the Antarctic Treaty; for more
  information, contact Permit Office, Office of Polar Programs,
  National Science Foundation, Arlington, Virginia 22230; telephone:
  (703) 292-8030, or visit their website at www.nsf.gov; more
  generally, access to the Antarctic Treaty area, that is to all areas
  between 60 and 90 degrees south latitude, is subject to a number of
  relevant legal instruments and authorization procedures adopted by
  the states party to the Antarctic Treaty

Antigua and Barbuda
  based on English common law

Argentina
  mixture of US and West European legal systems; has not
  accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Armenia
  based on civil law system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Aruba
  based on Dutch civil law system, with some English common law
  influence

Ashmore and Cartier Islands
  the laws of the Commonwealth of
  Australia and the laws of the Northern Territory of Australia, where
  applicable, apply

Australia
  based on English common law; accepts compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction, with reservations

Austria
  civil law system with Roman law origin; judicial review of
  legislative acts by the Constitutional Court; separate
  administrative and civil/penal supreme courts; accepts compulsory
  ICJ jurisdiction

Azerbaijan
  based on civil law system; has not accepted compulsory
  ICJ jurisdiction

Bahamas, The
  based on English common law

Bahrain
  based on Islamic law and English common law; has not
  accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Bangladesh
  based on English common law; has not accepted compulsory
  ICJ jurisdiction

Barbados
  English common law; no judicial review of legislative acts;
  accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

Belarus
  based on civil law system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Belgium
  based on civil law system influenced by English
  constitutional theory; judicial review of legislative acts; accepts
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

Belize
  English law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Benin
  based on French civil law and customary law; has not accepted
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Bermuda
  English law

Bhutan
  based on Indian law and English common law; has not accepted
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Bolivia
  based on Spanish law and Napoleonic Code; has not accepted
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  based on civil law system; has not accepted
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Botswana
  based on Roman-Dutch law and local customary law; judicial
  review limited to matters of interpretation; accepts compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction, with reservations

Bouvet Island
  the laws of Norway, where applicable, apply

Brazil
  based on Roman codes; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

British Indian Ocean Territory
  the laws of the UK, where applicable,
  apply

British Virgin Islands
  English law

Brunei
  based on English common law; for Muslims, Islamic Sharia law
  supersedes civil law in a number of areas; has not accepted
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Bulgaria
  civil and criminal law based on Roman law; accepts
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations

Burkina Faso
  based on French civil law system and customary law; has
  not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Burma
  based on English common law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Burundi
  based on German and Belgian civil codes and customary law;
  has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Cambodia
  primarily a civil law mixture of French-influenced codes
  from the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC)
  period, royal decrees, and acts of the legislature, with influences
  of customary law and remnants of communist legal theory; increasing
  influence of common law; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with
  reservations

Cameroon
  based on French civil law system, with common law
  influence; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Canada
  based on English common law, except in Quebec, where civil
  law system based on French law prevails; accepts compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction, with reservations

Cape Verde
  based on the legal system of Portugal; has not accepted
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Cayman Islands
  British common law and local statutes

Central African Republic
  based on French law; has not accepted
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Chad
  based on French civil law system and Chadian customary law; has
  not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Chile
  based on Code of 1857 derived from Spanish law and subsequent
  codes influenced by French and Austrian law; judicial review of
  legislative acts in the Supreme Court; has not accepted compulsory
  ICJ jurisdiction; note - in June 2005, Chile completed overhaul of
  its criminal justice system to a new, US-style adversarial system

China
  based on civil law system; derived from Soviet and continental
  civil code legal principles; legislature retains power to interpret
  statutes; constitution ambiguous on judicial review of legislation;
  has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Christmas Island
  under the authority of the governor general of
  Australia and Australian law

Clipperton Island
  the laws of France, where applicable, apply

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  based upon the laws of Australia and local
  laws

Colombia
  based on Spanish law; a new criminal code modeled after US
  procedures was enacted into law in 2004 and reached full
  implemention in January 2008; judicial review of executive and
  legislative acts; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Comoros
  French and Islamic law in a new consolidated code; has not
  accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  a new constitution was adopted by
  referendum 18 December 2005; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction,
  with reservations

Congo, Republic of the
  based on French civil law system and
  customary law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Cook Islands
  based on New Zealand law and English common law

Coral Sea Islands
  the laws of Australia, where applicable, apply

Costa Rica
  based on Spanish civil law system; judicial review of
  legislative acts in the Supreme Court; has accepted compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Cote d'Ivoire
  based on French civil law system and customary law;
  judicial review in the Constitutional Chamber of the Supreme Court;
  accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

Croatia
  based on Austro-Hungarian law system with Communist law
  influences; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Cuba
  based on Spanish civil law and influenced by American legal
  concepts, with large elements of Communist legal theory; has not
  accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Cyprus
  based on English common law, with civil law modifications;
  accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

Czech Republic
  civil law system based on Austro-Hungarian codes; has
  not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction; legal code modified to
  bring it in line with Organization on Security and Cooperation in
  Europe (OSCE) obligations and to expunge Marxist-Leninist legal
  theory

Denmark
  civil law system; judicial review of legislative acts;
  accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

Dhekelia
  the Sovereign Base Area Administration has its own court
  system to deal with civil and criminal matters; laws applicable to
  the Cypriot population are, as far as possible, the same as the laws
  of the Republic of Cyprus

Djibouti
  based on French civil law system, traditional practices,
  and Islamic law; accepts ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

Dominica
  based on English common law; accepts ICJ jurisdiction

Dominican Republic
  based on French civil codes; Criminal Procedures
  Code modified in 2004 to include important elements of an accusatory
  system; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Ecuador
  based on civil law system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Egypt
  based on Islamic and civil law (particularly Napoleonic
  codes); judicial review by Supreme Court and Council of State
  (oversees validity of administrative decisions); accepts compulsory
  ICJ jurisdiction with reservations

El Salvador
  based on civil and Roman law with traces of common law;
  judicial review of legislative acts in the Supreme Court; has not
  accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Equatorial Guinea
  partly based on Spanish civil law and tribal
  custom; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Eritrea
  primary basis is the Ethiopian legal code of 1957, with
  revisions; new civil, commercial, and penal codes have not yet been
  promulgated; government also issues unilateral proclamations setting
  laws and policies; also relies on customary and
  post-independence-enacted laws and, for civil cases involving
  Muslims, Islamic law; does not accept compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Estonia
  based on civil law system; accepts compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction with reservations

Ethiopia
  based on civil law; currently transitional mix of national
  and regional courts; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

European Union
  comparable to the legal systems of member states;
  first supranational law system

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  English common law

Faroe Islands
  the laws of Denmark, where applicable, apply

Fiji
  based on British system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Finland
  civil law system based on Swedish law; the president may
  request the Supreme Court to review laws; accepts compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction with reservations

France
  civil law system with indigenous concepts; review of
  administrative but not legislative acts; has not accepted compulsory
  ICJ jurisdiction

French Polynesia
  the laws of France, where applicable, apply

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  the laws of France, where
  applicable, apply

Gabon
  based on French civil law system and customary law; judicial
  review of legislative acts in Constitutional Chamber of the Supreme
  Court; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Gambia, The
  based on a composite of English common law, Islamic law,
  and customary law; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with
  reservations

Georgia
  based on civil law system; accepts compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Germany
  civil law system with indigenous concepts; judicial review
  of legislative acts in the Federal Constitutional Court; has not
  accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Ghana
  based on English common law and customary law; has not
  accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Gibraltar
  the laws of the UK, where applicable, apply

Greece
  based on codified Roman law; judiciary divided into civil,
  criminal, and administrative courts; accepts compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction with reservations

Greenland
  the laws of Denmark, where applicable, apply

Grenada
  based on English common law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Guam
  modeled on US; US federal laws apply

Guatemala
  civil law system; judicial review of legislative acts; has
  not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Guernsey
  the laws of the UK, where applicable, apply; justice is
  administered by the Royal Court

Guinea
  based on French civil law system, customary law, and decree;
  accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations

Guinea-Bissau
  based on French civil law; accepts compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Guyana
  based on English common law with certain admixtures of
  Roman-Dutch law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Haiti
  based on Roman civil law system; accepts compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Heard Island and McDonald Islands
  the laws of Australia, where
  applicable, apply

Holy See (Vatican City)
  based on Code of Canon Law and revisions to
  it

Honduras
  rooted in Roman and Spanish civil law with increasing
  influence of English common law; recent judicial reforms include
  abandoning Napoleonic legal codes in favor of the oral adversarial
  system; accepts ICJ jurisdiction with reservations

Hong Kong
  based on English common law

Hungary
  based on the German-Austrian legal system; accepts
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations

Iceland
  civil law system based on Danish law; has not accepted
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

India
  based on English common law; judicial review of legislative
  acts; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations;
  separate personal law codes apply to Muslims, Christians, and Hindus

Indonesia
  based on Roman-Dutch law, substantially modified by
  indigenous concepts and by new criminal procedures and election
  codes; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Iran
  based on Sharia law system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Iraq
  based on European civil and Islamic law under the framework
  outlined in the Iraqi Constitution; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Ireland
  based on English common law, substantially modified by
  indigenous concepts; judicial review of legislative acts in Supreme
  Court; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Isle of Man
  the laws of the UK, where applicable, apply and Manx
  statutes

Israel
  mixture of English common law, British Mandate regulations,
  and, in personal matters, Jewish, Christian, and Muslim legal
  systems; in December 1985, Israel informed the UN Secretariat that
  it would no longer accept compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Italy
  based on civil law system; appeals treated as new trials;
  judicial review under certain conditions in Constitutional Court;
  has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Jamaica
  based on English common law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Jan Mayen
  the laws of Norway, where applicable, apply

Japan
  modeled after German civil law system with English-American
  influence; judicial review of legislative acts in the Supreme Court;
  accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations

Jersey
  the laws of the UK, where applicable, apply and local
  statutes; justice is administered by the Royal Court

Jordan
  based on Islamic law and French codes; judicial review of
  legislative acts in a specially provided High Tribunal; has not
  accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Kazakhstan
  based on Islamic law and Roman law; has not accepted
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Kenya
  based on Kenyan statutory law, Kenyan and English common law,
  tribal law, and Islamic law; judicial review in High Court; accepts
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations; constitutional
  amendment of 1982 making Kenya a de jure one-party state repealed in
  1991

Kiribati
  NA

Korea, North
  based on Prussian civil law system with Japanese
  influences and Communist legal theory; no judicial review of
  legislative acts; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Korea, South
  combines elements of continental European civil law
  systems, Anglo-American law, and Chinese classical thought; has not
  accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Kosovo
  evolving legal system based on terms of UN Special Envoy
  Martti AHTISAARI's Plan for Kosovo's supervised independence

Kuwait
  civil law system with Islamic law significant in personal
  matters; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Kyrgyzstan
  based on French and Russian laws; has not accepted
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Laos
  based on traditional customs, French legal norms and
  procedures, and socialist practice; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Latvia
  based on civil law system with traces of Socialist legal
  traditions and practices; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Lebanon
  mixture of Ottoman law, canon law, Napoleonic code, and
  civil law; no judicial review of legislative acts; has not accepted
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Lesotho
  based on English common law and Roman-Dutch law; judicial
  review of legislative acts in High Court and Court of Appeal;
  accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations

Liberia
  dual system of statutory law based on Anglo-American common
  law for the modern sector and customary law based on unwritten
  tribal practices for indigenous sector; accepts compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction with reservations

Libya
  based on Italian and French civil law systems and Islamic law;
  separate religious courts; no constitutional provision for judicial
  review of legislative acts; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Liechtenstein
  local civil and penal codes based on civil law system;
  accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations

Lithuania
  based on civil law system; legislative acts can be
  appealed to the constitutional court; has not accepted compulsory
  ICJ jurisdiction

Luxembourg
  based on civil law system; accepts compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Macau
  based on Portuguese civil law system

Macedonia
  based on civil law system; judicial review of legislative
  acts; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Madagascar
  based on French civil law system and traditional Malagasy
  law; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations

Malawi
  based on English common law and customary law; judicial
  review of legislative acts in the Supreme Court of Appeal; accepts
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations

Malaysia
  based on English common law; judicial review of legislative
  acts in the Supreme Court at request of supreme head of the
  federation; Islamic law is applied to Muslims in matters of family
  law and religion; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Maldives
  based on Islamic law with admixtures of English common law
  primarily in commercial matters; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Mali
  based on French civil law system and customary law; judicial
  review of legislative acts in Constitutional Court; has not accepted
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Malta
  based on English common law and Roman civil law; accepts
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations

Marshall Islands
  based on adapted Trust Territory laws, acts of the
  legislature, municipal, common, and customary laws; has not accepted
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Mauritania
  a combination of Islamic law and French civil law; has
  not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Mauritius
  based on French civil law system with elements of English
  common law in certain areas; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
  with reservations

Mayotte
  the laws of France, where applicable, apply

Mexico
  mixture of US constitutional theory and civil law system;
  judicial review of legislative acts; accepts compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction with reservations

Micronesia, Federated States of
  based on adapted Trust Territory
  laws, acts of the legislature, municipal, common, and customary
  laws; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Moldova
  based on civil law system; Constitutional Court reviews
  legality of legislative acts and governmental decisions of
  resolution; accepts many UN and Organization for Security and
  Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) documents; has not accepted compulsory
  ICJ jurisdiction

Monaco
  based on French law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Mongolia
  blend of Soviet, German, and US systems that combine
  "continental" or "civil" code and case-precedent; constitution
  ambiguous on judicial review of legislative acts; has not accepted
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Montenegro
  based on civil law system; has not accepted compulsory
  ICJ jurisdiction

Montserrat
  English common law and statutory law

Morocco
  based on Islamic law and French and Spanish civil law
  systems; judicial review of legislative acts in Constitutional
  Chamber of Supreme Court; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Mozambique
  based on Portuguese civil law system and customary law;
  has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Namibia
  based on Roman-Dutch law and 1990 constitution; has not
  accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Nauru
  acts of the Nauru Parliament and British common law; accepts
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations

Navassa Island
  the laws of the US, where applicable, apply

Nepal
  based on Hindu legal concepts and English common law; has not
  accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Netherlands
  based on civil law system incorporating French penal
  theory; constitution does not permit judicial review of acts of the
  States General; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations

Netherlands Antilles
  based on Dutch civil law system with some
  English common law influence

New Caledonia
  based on French civil law; the 1988 Matignon Accords
  grant substantial autonomy to the islands

New Zealand
  based on English law, with special land legislation and
  land courts for the Maori; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with
  reservations

Nicaragua
  civil law system; Supreme Court may review administrative
  acts; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Niger
  based on French civil law system and customary law; has not
  accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Nigeria
  based on English common law, Islamic law (in 12 northern
  states), and traditional law; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
  with reservations

Niue
  English common law; note - Niue is self-governing, with the
  power to make its own laws

Norfolk Island
  based on the laws of Australia, local ordinances and
  acts; English common law applies in matters not covered by either
  Australian or Norfolk Island law

Northern Mariana Islands
  based on US system, except for customs,
  wages, immigration laws, and taxation

Norway
  mixture of customary law, civil law system, and common law
  traditions; Supreme Court renders advisory opinions to legislature
  when asked; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations

Oman
  based on English common law and Islamic law; ultimate appeal to
  the monarch; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Pakistan
  based on English common law with provisions to accommodate
  Pakistan's status as an Islamic state; accepts compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction with reservations

Palau
  based on Trust Territory laws, acts of the legislature,
  municipal, common, and customary laws; has not accepted compulsory
  ICJ jurisdiction

Panama
  based on civil law system; judicial review of legislative
  acts in the Supreme Court of Justice; accepts compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction with reservations

Papua New Guinea
  based on English common law; has not accepted
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Paraguay
  based on Argentine codes, Roman law, and French codes;
  judicial review of legislative acts in Supreme Court of Justice;
  accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Peru
  based on civil law system; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
  with reservations

Philippines
  based on Spanish and Anglo-American law; accepts
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations

Pitcairn Islands
  local island by-laws

Poland
  based on a mixture of Continental (Napoleonic) civil law and
  holdover Communist legal theory; changes being gradually introduced
  as part of broader democratization process; limited judicial review
  of legislative acts, but rulings of the Constitutional Tribunal are
  final; court decisions can be appealed to the European Court of
  Justice in Strasbourg; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with
  reservations

Portugal
  based on civil law system; the Constitutional Tribunal
  reviews the constitutionality of legislation; accepts compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction with reservations

Puerto Rico
  based on Spanish civil code and within the US Federal
  system of justice

Qatar
  based on Islamic and civil law codes; discretionary system of
  law controlled by the Amir, although civil codes are being
  implemented; Islamic law dominates family and personal matters; has
  not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Romania
  based on civil law system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Russia
  based on civil law system; judicial review of legislative
  acts; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Rwanda
  based on German and Belgian civil law systems and customary
  law; judicial review of legislative acts in the Supreme Court; has
  not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Saint Barthelemy
  the laws of France, where applicable, apply

Saint Helena
  English common law and statutes, supplemented by local
  statutes

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  based on English common law; has not accepted
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Saint Lucia
  based on English common law; has not accepted compulsory
  ICJ jurisdiction

Saint Martin
  the laws of France, where applicable, apply

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  the laws of France, where applicable, apply

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  based on English common law; has
  not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Samoa
  based on English common law and local customs; judicial review
  of legislative acts with respect to fundamental rights of the
  citizen; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

San Marino
  based on civil law system with Italian law influences;
  has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Sao Tome and Principe
  based on Portuguese legal system and customary
  law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Saudi Arabia
  based on Sharia law, several secular codes have been
  introduced; commercial disputes handled by special committees; has
  not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Senegal
  based on French civil law system; judicial review of
  legislative acts in Constitutional Court; the Council of State
  audits the government's accounting office; accepts compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction with reservations

Serbia
  based on civil law system

Seychelles
  based on English common law, French civil law, and
  customary law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Sierra Leone
  based on English law and customary laws indigenous to
  local tribes; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Singapore
  based on English common law; has not accepted compulsory
  ICJ jurisdiction

Slovakia
  civil law system based on Austro-Hungarian codes; accepts
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations; legal code modified
  to comply with the obligations of Organization on Security and
  Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and to expunge Marxist-Leninist legal
  theory

Slovenia
  based on civil law system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Solomon Islands
  English common law, which is widely disregarded; has
  not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Somalia
  no national system; a mixture of English common law, Italian
  law, Islamic Sharia, and Somali customary law; accepts compulsory
  ICJ jurisdiction with reservations

South Africa
  based on Roman-Dutch law and English common law; has
  not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  the laws of the UK,
  where applicable, apply; the senior magistrate from the Falkland
  Islands presides over the Magistrates Court

Spain
  civil law system, with regional applications; accepts
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations

Sri Lanka
  a highly complex mixture of English common law,
  Roman-Dutch, Kandyan, and Jaffna Tamil law; has not accepted
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Sudan
  based on English common law and Islamic law; as of 20 January
  1991, the now defunct Revolutionary Command Council imposed Islamic
  law in the northern states; Islamic law applies to all residents of
  the northern states regardless of their religion; however, the CPA
  establishes some protections for non-Muslims in Khartoum; some
  separate religious courts; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with
  reservations; the southern legal system is still developing under
  the CPA following the civil war; Islamic law will not apply to the
  southern states

Suriname
  based on Dutch legal system incorporating French penal
  theory; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations

Svalbard
  the laws of Norway, where applicable, apply

Swaziland
  based on South African Roman-Dutch law in statutory courts
  and Swazi traditional law and custom in traditional courts; accepts
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations

Sweden
  civil law system influenced by customary law; accepts
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction with reservations

Switzerland
  civil law system influenced by customary law; judicial
  review of legislative acts, except with respect to federal decrees
  of general obligatory character; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction
  with reservations

Syria
  based on a combination of French and Ottoman civil law;
  Islamic law is used in the family court system; has not accepted
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Taiwan
  based on civil law system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Tajikistan
  based on civil law system; no judicial review of
  legislative acts; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Tanzania
  based on English common law; judicial review of legislative
  acts limited to matters of interpretation; has not accepted
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Thailand
  based on civil law system, with influences of common law;
  has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Timor-Leste
  UN-drafted legal system based on Indonesian law remains
  in place but is to be replaced by civil and penal codes based on
  Portuguese law; these have passed but have not been promulgated; has
  not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Togo
  French-based court system; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction,
  with reservations

Tokelau
  New Zealand and local statutes

Tonga
  based on English common law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Trinidad and Tobago
  based on English common law; judicial review of
  legislative acts in the Supreme Court; has not accepted compulsory
  ICJ jurisdiction

Tunisia
  based on French civil law system and Islamic law; some
  judicial review of legislative acts in the Supreme Court in joint
  session; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Turkey
  civil law system derived from various European continental
  legal systems; note - member of the European Court of Human Rights
  (ECHR), although Turkey claims limited derogations on the ratified
  European Convention on Human Rights; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Turkmenistan
  based on civil law system and Islamic law; has not
  accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Turks and Caicos Islands
  based on laws of England and Wales, with a
  few adopted from Jamaica and The Bahamas

Tuvalu
  NA

Uganda
  in 1995, the government restored the legal system to one
  based on English common law and customary law; accepts compulsory
  ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

Ukraine
  based on civil law system; judicial review of legislative
  acts; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

United Arab Emirates
  based on a dual system of Sharia and civil
  courts; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

United Kingdom
  based on common law tradition with early Roman and
  modern continental influences; has nonbinding judicial review of
  Acts of Parliament under the Human Rights Act of 1998; accepts
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

United States
  federal court system based on English common law; each
  state has its own unique legal system, of which all but one
  (Louisiana, which is still influenced by the Napoleonic Code) is
  based on English common law; judicial review of legislative acts;
  has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
  the laws of the US,
  where applicable, apply

Uruguay
  based on Spanish civil law system; accepts compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Uzbekistan
  based on civil law system; has not accepted compulsory
  ICJ jurisdiction

Vanuatu
  unified system being created from former dual French and
  British systems; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Venezuela
  open, adversarial court system; has not accepted
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Vietnam
  based on communist legal theory and French civil law system;
  has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Virgin Islands
  based on US laws

Wake Island
  the laws of the US, where applicable, apply

Wallis and Futuna
  the laws of France, where applicable, apply

World
  all members of the UN are parties to the statute that
  established the International Court of Justice (ICJ) or World Court

Yemen
  based on Islamic law, Turkish law, English common law, and
  local tribal customary law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Zambia
  based on English common law and customary law; judicial
  review of legislative acts in an ad hoc constitutional council; has
  not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Zimbabwe
  mixture of Roman-Dutch and English common law; has not
  accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2101  Legislative branch


Afghanistan
  the bicameral National Assembly consists of the Wolesi
  Jirga or House of People (no more than 249 seats), directly elected
  for five-year terms, and the Meshrano Jirga or House of Elders (102
  seats, one-third elected from provincial councils for four-year
  terms, one-third elected from local district councils for three-year
  terms, and one-third nominated by the president for five-year terms)
  note: on rare occasions the government may convene a Loya Jirga
  (Grand Council) on issues of independence, national sovereignty, and
  territorial integrity; it can amend the provisions of the
  constitution and prosecute the president; it is made up of members
  of the National Assembly and chairpersons of the provincial and
  district councils
  elections: last held 18 September 2005 (next to be held for the
  Wolesi Jirga by September 2009; next to be held for the provincial
  councils to the Meshrano Jirga by September 2008)
  election results: the single non-transferable vote (SNTV) system
  used in the election did not make use of political party slates;
  most candidates ran as independents

Albania
  unicameral Assembly or Kuvendi (140 seats; 100 members are
  elected by direct popular vote and 40 by proportional vote to serve
  four-year terms)
  elections: last held 3 July 2005 (next to be held in 2009)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - PD
  56, PS 42, PR 11, PSD 7, LSI 5, other 19

Algeria
  bicameral Parliament consists of the National People's
  Assembly or Al-Majlis Al-Shabi Al-Watani (389 seats; members elected
  by popular vote to serve five-year terms) and the Council of Nations
  (Senate) (144 seats; one-third of the members appointed by the
  president, two-thirds elected by indirect vote; to serve six-year
  terms; the constitution requires half the council to be renewed
  every three years)
  elections: National People's Assembly - last held 17 May 2007 (next
  to be held in 2012); Council of Nations (Senate) - last held 28
  December 2006 (next to be held in 2009)
  election results: National People's Assembly - percent of vote by
  party - NA; seats by party - FLN 136, RND 61, MSP 52, PT 26, RCD 19,
  FNA 13, other 49, independents 33; Council of Nations - percent of
  vote by party - NA; seats by party - FLN 29, RND 12, MSP 3, RCD 1,
  independents 3, presidential appointees (unknown affiliation) 24;
  note - Council seating reflects the number of replaced council
  members rather than the whole Council

American Samoa
  bicameral Fono or Legislative Assembly consists of
  the House of Representatives (21 seats; 20 members are elected by
  popular vote and 1 is an appointed, nonvoting delegate from Swains
  Island; members serve two-year terms) and the Senate (18 seats;
  members are elected from local chiefs to serve four-year terms)
  elections: House of Representatives - last held 4 November 2008
  (next to be held in November 2010); Senate - last held 4 November
  2008 (next to be held in November 2012)
  election results: House of Representatives - percent of vote by
  party - NA; seats by party - NA; Senate - percent of vote by party -
  NA; seats by party - independents 18
  note: American Samoa elects one nonvoting representative to the US
  House of Representatives; election last held on 4 November 2008
  (next to be held in November 2010); results - Eni F. H. FALEOMAVAEGA
  reelected as delegate

Andorra
  unicameral General Council of the Valleys or Consell General
  de las Valls (28 seats; members are elected by direct popular vote,
  14 from a single national constituency and 14 to represent each of
  the seven parishes; to serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held on 24 April 2005 (next to be held in
  March-April 2009)
  election results: percent of vote by party - PLA 41.2%, PS 38.1%,
  CDA-S21 11%, other 9.7%; seats by party - PLA 14, PS 12, CDA-S21 2

Angola
  unicameral National Assembly or Assembleia Nacional (220
  seats; members elected by proportional vote to serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held 5-6 September 2008 (next to be held in
  September 2012)
  election results: percent of vote by party - MPLA 81.6%, UNITA
  10.4%, PRS 3.2%, ND 1.2%, FNLA 1.1%, other 2.5%; seats by party -
  MPLA 191, UNITA 16, PRS 8, ND 2, FNLA 3

Anguilla
  unicameral House of Assembly (11 seats; 7 members elected
  by direct popular vote, 2 ex officio members, and 2 appointed;
  members serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held 21 February 2005 (next to be held in 2010)
  election results: percent of vote by party - AUF 38.9%, AUM 19.4%,
  ANSA 19.2%, APP 9.5%, independents 13%; seats by party - AUF 4, ANSA
  2, AUM 1

Antigua and Barbuda
  bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (17
  seats; members appointed by the governor general) and the House of
  Representatives (17 seats; members are elected by proportional
  representation to serve five-year terms)
  elections: House of Representatives - last held 23 March 2004 (next
  to be held in 2009)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  ALP 4, UPP 13

Argentina
  bicameral National Congress or Congreso Nacional consists
  of the Senate (72 seats; members are elected by direct vote;
  presently one-third of the members elected every two years to serve
  six-year terms) and the Chamber of Deputies (257 seats; members are
  elected by direct vote; one-half of the members elected every two
  years to serve four-year terms)
  elections: Senate - last held 28 October 2007 (next to be held in
  2009); Chamber of Deputies - last held last held 28 October 2007
  (next to be held in 2009)
  election results: Senate - percent of vote by bloc or party - NA;
  seats by bloc or party - FV 12, UCR 4, CC 4, other 4; Chamber of
  Deputies - percent of vote by bloc or party - NA; seats by bloc or
  party - FV 5, UCR 10, PJ 10, PRO 6, CC 16, FJ 2, other 31; note -
  Senate and Chamber of Deputies seating reflect the number of
  replaced senators and deputies, rather than the whole Senate and
  Chamber of Deputies

Armenia
  unicameral National Assembly (Parliament) or Azgayin Zhoghov
  (131 seats; members elected by popular vote, 90 members elected by
  party list and 41 by direct vote; to serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held 12 May 2007 (next to be held in the spring of
  2012)
  election results: percent of vote by party - HHK 33.9%, Prosperous
  Armenia 15.1%, ARF (Dashnak) 13.2%, Rule of Law 7.1%, Heritage Party
  6%, other 24.7%; seats by party - HHK 64, Prosperous Armenia 18, ARF
  (Dashnak) 16, Rule of Law 9, Heritage Party 7, independent 17

Aruba
  unicameral Legislature or Staten (21 seats; members elected by
  direct popular vote to serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held 23 September 2005 (next to be held in 2009)
  election results: percent of vote by party - MEP 43%, AVP 32%, MPA
  7%, RED 7%, PDR 6%, OLA 4%, PPA 2%; seats by party - MEP 11, AVP 8,
  MPA 1, RED 1

Australia
  bicameral Federal Parliament consists of the Senate (76
  seats; 12 members from each of the six states and 2 from each of the
  two mainland territories; one-half of state members are elected
  every three years by popular vote to serve six-year terms while all
  territory members are elected every three years) and the House of
  Representatives (150 seats; members elected by popular preferential
  vote to serve terms of up to three-years; no state can have fewer
  than 5 representatives)
  elections: Senate - last held 24 November 2007 (next to be held no
  later than 2010); House of Representatives - last held 24 November
  2007 (next to be called no later than 2010)
  election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
  party - Liberal Party-National Party coalition 37, Australian Labor
  Party 32, Australian Greens 5, Family First Party 1, other 1; House
  of Representatives - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  Australian Labor Party 83, Liberal Party 55, National Party 10,
  independents 2

Austria
  bicameral Federal Assembly or Bundesversammlung consists of
  Federal Council or Bundesrat (62 seats; members chosen by state
  parliaments with each state receiving 3 to 12 members according to
  its population; members serve a five- or six-year term) and the
  National Council or Nationalrat (183 seats; members elected by
  direct popular vote to serve five-year terms)
  elections: National Council - last held 28 September 2008 (next to
  be held by September 2013)
  election results: National Council - percent of vote by party - SPOe
  29.3%, OeVP 26%, FPOe 17.5%, BZOe 10.7%, Greens 10.4%, other 6.1%;
  seats by party - SPOe 57, OeVP 51, FPOe 34, BZOe 21, Greens 20

Azerbaijan
  unicameral National Assembly or Milli Mejlis (125 seats;
  members elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held 6 November 2005 (next to be held in November
  2010)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  Yeni 58, Azadliq coalition 8, CSP 2, Motherland 2, other parties
  with single seats 9, independents 42, undetermined 4

Bahamas, The
  bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (16 seats;
  members appointed by the governor general upon the advice of the
  prime minister and the opposition leader to serve five-year terms)
  and the House of Assembly (41 seats; members elected by direct
  popular vote to serve five-year terms); the government may dissolve
  the Parliament and call elections at any time
  elections: last held 2 May 2007 (next to be held by May 2012)
  election results: percent of vote by party - FNM 49.86%, PLP 47.02%;
  seats by party - FNM 23, PLP 18

Bahrain
  bicameral legislature consists of the Consultative Council
  (40 members appointed by the King) and the Council of
  Representatives or Chamber of Deputies (40 seats; members directly
  elected to serve four-year terms)
  elections: Council of Representatives - last held November-December
  2006 (next election to be held in 2010)
  election results: Council of Representatives - percent of vote by
  party - NA; seats by party - al Wifaq (Shia) 17, al Asala (Sunni
  Salafi) 5, al Minbar (Sunni Muslim Brotherhood) 7, independents 11;
  note - seats by party as of February 2007 - al Wifaq 17, al Asala 8,
  al Minbar 7, al Mustaqbal (Moderate Sunni pro-government) 4,
  unassociated independents (all Sunni) 3, independent affiliated with
  al Wifaq (Sunni oppositionist) 1

Bangladesh
  unicameral National Parliament or Jatiya Sangsad; 300
  seats elected by popular vote from single territorial
  constituencies; members serve five-year terms; note - parliament not
  in session during the extended caretaker regime
  elections: last held 1 October 2001 (the scheduled January 2007
  election has been postponed until 29 December 2008)
  election results: percent of vote by party - BNP and alliance
  partners 41%, AL 40%, other 19%; seats by party - BNP 193, AL 58, JI
  17, JP (Ershad faction) 14, IOJ 2, JP (Manzur) 4, other 12; note -
  the election of October 2001 brought to power a majority BNP
  government aligned with three other smaller parties - JI, IOJ, and
  Jatiya Party (Manzur)

Barbados
  bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (21 seats;
  members appointed by the governor general - 12 on the advice of the
  Prime Minister, 2 on the advice of the opposition leader, and 7 at
  his discretion) and the House of Assembly (30 seats; members are
  elected by direct popular vote to serve five-year terms)
  elections: House of Assembly - last held 15 January 2008 (next to be
  called in 2013)
  election results: House of Assembly - percent of vote by party - DLP
  52.5%, BLP 47.3%; seats by party - DLP 20, BLP 10

Belarus
  bicameral National Assembly or Natsionalnoye Sobranie
  consists of the Council of the Republic or Soviet Respubliki (64
  seats; 56 members elected by regional councils and eight members
  appointed by the president, to serve four-year terms) and the
  Chamber of Representatives or Palata Predstaviteley (110 seats;
  members elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
  elections: Palata Predstaviteley - last held 28 September 2008 (next
  to be held fall of 2012); international observers widely denounced
  the elections as flawed and undemocratic based on massive government
  falsification; pro-LUKASHENKO candidates won all 110 seats
  election results: Soviet Respubliki - percent of vote by party - NA;
  seats by party - NA; Palata Predstaviteley - percent of vote by
  party - NA; seats by party - NA

Belgium
  bicameral Parliament consists of a Senate or Senaat in
  Dutch, Senat in French (71 seats; 40 members are directly elected by
  popular vote, 31 are indirectly elected; members serve four-year
  terms) and a Chamber of Deputies or Kamer van
  Volksvertegenwoordigers in Dutch, Chambre des Representants in
  French (150 seats; members are directly elected by popular vote on
  the basis of proportional representation to serve four-year terms)
  elections: Senate and Chamber of Deputies - last held 10 June 2007
  (next to be held no later than June 2011)
  election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - CDV/N-VA
  19.4%, Open VLD 12.4%, MR 12.3%, VB 11.9%, PS 10.2%, SP.A-Spirit
  10%, CDH 5.9%, Ecolo 5.8%, Groen! 3.6%, Dedecker List 3.4%, FN 2.3%,
  other 2.8%; seats by party - CDV/N-VA 9, Open VLD 5, MR 6, VB 5, PS
  4, SP.A-Spririt 4, CDH 2, Ecolo 2, Groen! 1, Dedecker List 1, FN 1
  (note - there are also 31 indirectly elected senators); Chamber of
  Deputies - percent of vote by party - CDV/N-VA 18.5%, MR 12.5%, VB
  12%, Open VLD 11.8%, PS 10.9%, SP.A-Spirit 10.3%, CDH 6.1%, Ecolo
  5.1%, Dedecker List 4%, Groen! 4%, FN 2%, other 2.8%; seats by party
  - CDV/N-VA 30, MR 23, VB 17, Open VLD 18, PS 20, SP.A-Spirit 14, CDH
  10, Ecolo 8, Dedecker List 5, Groen! 4, FN 1
  note: as a result of the 1993 constitutional revision that furthered
  devolution into a federal state, there are now three levels of
  government (federal, regional, and linguistic community) with a
  complex division of responsibilities; this reality leaves six
  governments each with its own legislative assembly

Belize
  bicameral National Assembly consists of the Senate (12 seats;
  members appointed by the governor general - 6 on the advice of the
  prime minister, 3 on the advice of the leader of the opposition, and
  1 each on the advice of the Belize Council of Churches and
  Evangelical Association of Churches, the Belize Chamber of Commerce
  and Industry and the Belize Better Business Bureau, and the National
  Trade Union Congress and the Civil Society Steering Committee; to
  serve five-year terms) and the House of Representatives (31 seats;
  members are elected by direct popular vote to serve five-year terms)
  elections: House of Representatives - last held 6 February 2008
  (next to be held in 2013)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  UDP 25, PUP 6

Benin
  unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale (83 seats;
  members are elected by direct popular vote to serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held 31 March 2007 (next to be held by March 2011)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  FCBE 35, ADD 20, PRD 10, other and independents 18

Bermuda
  bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (11 seats;
  members appointed by the governor, the premier, and the opposition)
  and the House of Assembly (36 seats; members are elected by popular
  vote to serve up to five-year terms)
  elections: last general election held 18 December 2007 (next to be
  held not later than 2012)
  election results: percent of vote by party - PLP 52.5%, UBP 47.3%;
  seats by party - PLP 22, UBP 14

Bhutan
  new bicameral Parliament consists of the non-partisan
  National Council (25 seats; 20 members elected by each of the 20
  electoral districts (dzongkhags) for four-year terms and 5 members
  nominated by the King); and the National Assembly (47 seats; members
  elected by direct, popular vote for five-year terms)
  elections: National Council elections last held on 31 December 2007
  and 29 January 2008 (next to be held by December 2012); National
  Assembly elections last held on 24 March 2008 (next to be held by
  March 2013)
  election results: National Council - NA; National Assembly - percent
  of vote by party - DPT 67%, PDP 33%; seats by party - DPT 45, PDP 2

Bolivia
  bicameral National Congress or Congreso Nacional consists of
  Chamber of Senators or Camara de Senadores (27 seats; members are
  elected by proportional representation from party lists to serve
  five-year terms) and Chamber of Deputies or Camara de Diputados (130
  seats; 70 members are directly elected from their districts and 60
  are elected by proportional representation from party lists to serve
  five-year terms)
  elections: Chamber of Senators and Chamber of Deputies - last held
  18 December 2005 (next to be held in 2010)
  election results: Chamber of Senators - percent of vote by party -
  NA; seats by party - PODEMOS 13, MAS 12, UN 1, MNR 1; Chamber of
  Deputies - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - MAS 73,
  PODEMOS 43, UN 8, MNR 6

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  bicameral Parliamentary Assembly or Skupstina
  consists of the national House of Representatives or Predstavnicki
  Dom (42 seats, 28 seats allocated for the Federation of Bosnia and
  Herzegovina and 14 seats for the Republika Srpska; members elected
  by popular vote on the basis of proportional representation, to
  serve four-year terms); and the House of Peoples or Dom Naroda (15
  seats, 5 Bosniak, 5 Croat, 5 Serb; members elected by the
  Bosniak/Croat Federation's House of Representatives and the
  Republika Srpska's National Assembly to serve four-year terms); note
  - Bosnia's election law specifies four-year terms for the state and
  first-order administrative division entity legislatures
  elections: national House of Representatives - elections last held 1
  October 2006 (next to be held in 2010); House of Peoples - last
  constituted in January 2003 (next to be constituted in 2007)
  election results: national House of Representatives - percent of
  vote by party/coalition - NA; seats by party/coalition - SDA 9, SBH
  8, SNSD 7, SDP 5, SDS 3, HDZ-BH 3, HDZ1990 2, other 5; House of
  Peoples - percent of vote by party/coalition - NA; seats by
  party/coalition - NA
  note: the Bosniak/Croat Federation has a bicameral legislature that
  consists of a House of Representatives (98 seats; members elected by
  popular vote to serve four-year terms); elections last held 1
  October 2006 (next to be held in October 2010); percent of vote by
  party - NA; seats by party/coalition - SDA 28, SBH 24, SDP 17,
  HDZ-BH 8, HDZ100 7, other 14; and a House of Peoples (58 seats - 17
  Bosniak, 17 Croat, 17 Serb, 7 other); last constituted December
  2002; the Republika Srpska has a National Assembly (83 seats;
  members elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms); elections
  last held 1 October 2006 (next to be held in the fall of 2010);
  percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party/coalition - SNSD 41,
  SDS 17, PDP 8, DNS 4, SBH 4, SPRS 3, SDA 3, other 3; as a result of
  the 2002 constitutional reform process, a 28-member Republika Srpska
  Council of Peoples (COP) was established in the Republika Srpska
  National Assembly including eight Croats, eight Bosniaks, eight
  Serbs, and four members of the smaller communities

Botswana
  bicameral Parliament consists of the House of Chiefs (a
  largely advisory 15-member body with 8 permanent members consisting
  of the chiefs of the principal tribes, and 7 non-permanent members
  serving 5-year terms, consisting of 4 elected subchiefs and 3
  members selected by the other 12 members) and the National Assembly
  (63 seats, 57 members are directly elected by popular vote, 4 are
  appointed by the majority party, and 2, the President and
  Attorney-General, serve as ex-officio members; members serve
  five-year terms)
  elections: National Assembly elections last held 30 October 2004
  (next to be held in October 2009)
  election results: percent of vote by party - BDP 51.7%, BNF 26.1%,
  BCP 16.6%, other 5%; seats by party - BDP 44, BNF 12, BCP 1

Brazil
  bicameral National Congress or Congresso Nacional consists of
  the Federal Senate or Senado Federal (81 seats; 3 members from each
  state and federal district elected according to the principle of
  majority to serve eight-year terms; one-third and two-thirds elected
  every four years, alternately) and the Chamber of Deputies or Camara
  dos Deputados (513 seats; members are elected by proportional
  representation to serve four-year terms)
  elections: Federal Senate - last held 1 October 2006 for one-third
  of the Senate (next to be held in October 2010 for two-thirds of the
  Senate); Chamber of Deputies - last held 1 October 2006 (next to be
  held in October 2010)
  election results: Federal Senate - percent of vote by party - NA;
  seats by party - PFL 6, PSDB 5, PMDB 4, PTB 3, PT 2, PDT 1, PSB 1,
  PL 1, PPS 1, PRTB 1, PP 1, PCdoB 1; Chamber of Deputies - percent of
  vote by party - NA; seats by party - PMDB 89, PT 83, PFL 65, PSDB
  65, PP 42, PSB 27, PDT 24, PL 23, PTB 22, PPS 21, PCdoB 13, PV 13,
  PSC 9, other 17; note - as of 1 January 2008: Federal Senate - seats
  by party - PMDB 20, DEM (formerly PFL) 14, PSDB 13, PT 12, PTB 6,
  PDT 5, PR 4, PRB 2, PSB 2, PCdoB 1, PP 1, PSOL 1; Chamber of
  Deputies - seats by party - PMDB 90, PT 83, PSDB 64, DEM (formerly
  PFL) 62, PP 41, PR 34, PSB 28, PDT 23, PTB 21, PPS 17, PV 13, PCdoB
  13, PSC 7, PAN 4, PSOL 3, PMN 3, PTC 3, PHS 2, PTdoB 1, PRB 1

British Virgin Islands
  unicameral House of Assembly (13 elected
  seats and 1 non-voting ex officio member in the attorney general;
  members are elected by direct popular vote, 1 member from each of
  nine electoral districts, 4 at-large members; members serve
  four-year terms)
  elections: last held 20 August 2007 (next to be held in 2011)
  election results: percent of vote by party - VIP 45.2%, NDP 39.6%,
  independent 15.2%; seats by party - VIP 10, NDP 2, independent 1

Brunei
  Legislative Council met on 25 September 2004 for first time
  in 20 years with 21 members appointed by the Sultan; passed
  constitutional amendments calling for a 45-seat council with 15
  elected members; Sultan dissolved council on 1 September 2005 and
  appointed a new council with 29 members as of 2 September 2005;
  council met in March 2006 and in March 2007
  elections: last held in March 1962 (date of next election NA)

Bulgaria
  unicameral National Assembly or Narodno Sobranie (240
  seats; members elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held 25 June 2005 (next to be held in June 2009)
  election results: percent of vote by party - CfB 31.1%, NMS2 19.9%,
  MRF 12.7%, ATAKA 8.2%, UDF 7.7%, DSB 6.5%, BPU 5.2%, other 8.7%;
  seats by party - CfB 83, NMS2 53, MRF 33, UDF 20, ATAKA 17, DSB 17,
  BPU 13, independents 4; note - seats by party as of January 2008 -
  CfB 82, NMS2 36, MRF 34, Bulgarian New Democracy 16, DSB 16, UDF 16,
  BPU 13, ATAKA 11, independents 16

Burkina Faso
  unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale
  (111 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year
  terms)
  elections: National Assembly election last held 6 May 2007 (next to
  be held in May 2012)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  CDP 73, ADF-RDA 14, UPR 5, UNIR-MS 4, CFD-B 3, UPS 2, PDP-PS 2, RDB
  2, PDS 2, PAREN 1, PAI 1, RPC 1, UDPS 1

Burma
  unicameral People's Assembly or Pyithu Hluttaw (485 seats;
  members elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held 27 May 1990, but Assembly never allowed by
  junta to convene (junta has announced plans to hold elections in
  2010)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  NLD 392 (opposition), SNLD 23 (opposition), NUP 10 (pro-government),
  other 60

Burundi
  bicameral Parliament or Parlement, consists of a National
  Assembly or Assemblee Nationale (minimum 100 seats, 60% Hutu and 40%
  Tutsi with at least 30% being women; additional seats appointed by a
  National Independent Electoral Commission to ensure ethnic
  representation; members are elected by popular vote to serve
  five-year terms) and a Senate (54 seats; 34 members elected by
  indirect vote to serve five-year terms, with remaining seats
  assigned to ethnic groups and former chiefs of state)
  elections: National Assembly - last held 4 July 2005 (next to be
  held in 2010); Senate - last held 29 July 2005 (next to be held in
  2010)
  election results: National Assembly - percent of vote by party -
  CNDD-FDD 58.6%, FRODEBU 21.7%, UPRONA 7.2%, CNDD 4.1%,
  MRC-Rurenzangemero 2.1%, others 6.2%; seats by party - CNDD-FDD 59,
  FRODEBU 25, UPRONA 10, CNDD 4, MRC-Rurenzangemero 2; Senate -
  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - CNDD-FDD 30,
  FRODEBU 3, CNDD 1

Cambodia
  bicameral, consists of the National Assembly (123 seats;
  members elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms) and the
  Senate (61 seats; 2 members appointed by the monarch, 2 elected by
  the National Assembly, and 57 elected by parliamentarians and
  commune councils; members serve five-year terms)
  elections: National Assembly - last held 27 July 2008 (next to be
  held in July 2013); Senate - last held 22 January 2006 (next to be
  held in January 2011)
  election results: National Assembly - percent of vote by party - CPP
  58%, SRP 22%, others 20%; seats by party - CPP 90, SRP 26, others 7;
  Senate - percent of vote by party - CPP 69%, FUNCINPEC 21%, SRP 10%;
  seats by party - CPP 45, FUNCINPEC 10, SRP 2

Cameroon
  unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale (180
  seats; members are elected by direct popular vote to serve five-year
  terms); note - the president can either lengthen or shorten the term
  of the legislature
  elections: last held 22 July 2007 (next to be held in 2012)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  RDCP 140, SDF 14, UDC 4, UNDP 4, MP 1, vacant 17; note - vacant
  seats will be determined in a yet to be scheduled by-election after
  the Supreme Court nullified results in five districts
  note: the constitution calls for an upper chamber for the
  legislature, to be called a Senate, but it has yet to be established

Canada
  bicameral Parliament or Parlement consists of the Senate or
  Senat (105 seats; members appointed by the governor general with the
  advice of the prime minister and serve until reaching 75 years of
  age) and the House of Commons or Chambre des Communes (308 seats;
  members elected by direct, popular vote to serve a maximum of
  five-year terms starting in 2009 elections)
  elections: House of Commons - last held 14 October 2008 (next to be
  held 19 October 2009)
  election results: House of Commons - percent of vote by party -
  Conservative Party 37.6%, Liberal Party 26.2%, New Democratic Party
  18.2%, Bloc Quebecois 10%, Greens 6.8%, other 1%; seats by party -
  Conservative Party 143, Liberal Party 76, New Democratic Party 37,
  Bloc Quebecois 50, other 1

Cape Verde
  unicameral National Assembly or Assembleia Nacional (72
  seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held 22 January 2006 (next to be held in January
  2011)
  election results: percent of vote by party - PAICV 52.3%, MPD 44%,
  UCID 2.7%; seats by party - PAICV 41, MPD 29, UCID 2

Cayman Islands
  unicameral Legislative Assembly (18 seats; 3
  appointed members from the Executive Council and 15 elected by
  popular vote; to serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held 11 May 2005 (next to be held in 2009)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  PPM 9, UDP 5, independent 1

Central African Republic
  unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee
  Nationale (105 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
  five-year terms)
  elections: last held 13 March 2005 and 8 May 2005 (next to be held
  in 2010)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  KNK 42, MLPC 11, RDC 8, PSD 4, FPP 2, ADP 2, LONDO 1, independents
  34, other 1

Chad
  unicameral National Assembly (155 seats; members elected by
  popular vote to serve four-year terms); note - the 1996 constitution
  called for a Senate that has never been formed
  elections: National Assembly - last held 21 April 2002 (next to be
  held by 2009); note - legislative elections, originally scheduled
  for 2006, were first delayed by National Assembly action and
  subsequently by an accord, signed in August 2007, between government
  and opposition parties
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  MPS 110, RDP 12, FAR 9, RNDP 5, UNDR 5, URD 3, other 11

Chile
  bicameral National Congress or Congreso Nacional consists of
  the Senate or Senado (38 seats; members elected by popular vote to
  serve eight-year terms; one-half elected every four years) and the
  Chamber of Deputies or Camara de Diputados (120 seats; members are
  elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
  elections: Senate - last held 11 December 2005 (next to be held in
  December 2009); Chamber of Deputies - last held 11 December 2005
  (next to be held in December 2009)
  election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
  party - CPD 20 (PDC 6, PS 8, PPD 3, PRSD 3), APC 17 (UDI 9, RN 8),
  independent 1; Chamber of Deputies - percent of vote by party - NA;
  seats by party - CPD 65 (PDC 21, PPD 22, PS 15, PRSD 7), APC 54 (UDI
  34, RN 20), independent 1; note - as of 8 January 2008: Senate -
  seats by party - CPD 18, (PDC 5, PS 8, PPD 2, PRSD 3), APC 16 (UDI
  9, RN 7), independent 4; Chamber of Deputies - seats by party - CPD
  57 (PDC 16, PPD 19, PS 15, PRSD 7), APC 53 (UDI 33, RN 20),
  independent 10.

China
  unicameral National People's Congress or Quanguo Renmin
  Daibiao Dahui (2,987 seats; members elected by municipal, regional,
  and provincial people's congresses, and People's Liberation Army to
  serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held December 2007-February 2008; date of next
  election - NA
  election results: percent of vote - NA; seats - 2,987

Christmas Island
  unicameral Christmas Island Shire Council (9 seats;
  members elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
  elections: held every two years with half the members standing for
  election; last held 20 October 2007 (next to be held in 2009)
  election results: percent of vote - NA; seats - independents 9

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  unicameral Cocos (Keeling) Islands Shire
  Council (7 seats)
  elections: held every two years with half the members standing for
  election; last held in May 2007 (next to be held in May 2009)

Colombia
  bicameral Congress or Congreso consists of the Senate or
  Senado (102 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
  four-year terms) and the House of Representatives or Camara de
  Representantes (166 seats; members are elected by popular vote to
  serve four-year terms)
  elections: Senate - last held 12 March 2006 (next to be held in
  March 2010); House of Representatives - last held 12 March 2006
  (next to be held in March 2010)
  election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
  party - PSUN 20, PC 18, PL 18, CR 15, PDI 10, other parties 21;
  House of Representatives - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
  party - PL 35, PSUN 33, PC 29, CR 20, PDA 8, other parties 41

Comoros
  unicameral Assembly of the Union (33 seats; 15 deputies are
  selected by the individual islands' local assemblies and 18 by
  universal suffrage; to serve for five years);
  elections: last held 18 and 25 April 2004 (next to be held in 2009)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  CdIA 12, CRC 6; note - 15 additional seats are filled by deputies
  from local island assemblies

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  bicameral legislature consists of
  a National Assembly (500 seats; 61 members elected by majority vote
  in single-member constituencies, 439 members elected by open list
  proportional-representation in multi-member constituencies; to serve
  five-year terms) and a Senate (108 seats; members elected by
  provincial assemblies to serve five-year terms)
  elections: National Assembly - last held 30 July 2006 (next to be
  held in 2011); Senate - last held 19 January 2007 (next to be held
  by 2012)
  election results: National Assembly - percent of vote by party - NA;
  seats by party - PPRD 111, MLC 64, PALU 34, MSR 27, FR 26, RCD 15,
  independents 63, others 160 (includes 63 political parties that won
  10 or fewer seats); Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
  party - PPRD 22, MLC 14, FR 7, RCD 7, PDC 6, CDC 3, MSR 3, PALU 2,
  independents 26, others 18 (political parties that won a single seat)

Congo, Republic of the
  bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate
  (66 seats; members are elected by indirect vote to serve five-year
  terms) and the National Assembly (137 seats; members are elected by
  popular vote to serve five-year terms)
  elections: Senate - last held 11 July 2002 (next to be held in July
  2008); National Assembly - last held 24 June and 5 August 2007 (next
  to be held in 2012)
  election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
  party - FDU 56, other 10; National Assembly - percent of vote by
  party - NA; seats by party - PCT 46, MCDDI 11, UPADS 11, MAR 5, MSD
  5, independents 37, other 22

Cook Islands
  bicameral Parliament consisting of a Legislative
  Assembly (or lower house) (24 seats; members elected by popular vote
  to serve four-year terms) and a House of Ariki (or upper house) made
  up of traditional leaders
  note: the House of Ariki advises on traditional matters and
  maintains considerable influence but has no legislative powers
  elections: last held 26 September 2006 (next to be held by 2011)
  election results: percent of vote by party - Demo 51.9%, CIP 45.5%,
  independent 2.7%; seats by party - Demo 15, CIP 8, independent 1

Costa Rica
  unicameral Legislative Assembly or Asamblea Legislativa
  (57 seats; members are elected by direct, popular vote to serve
  four-year terms)
  elections: last held 5 February 2006 (next to be held in February
  2010)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  PLN 25, PAC 17, PML 6, PUSC 5, PASE 1, PFA 1, PRN 1, PUN 1

Cote d'Ivoire
  unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale
  (225 seats; members are elected in single- and multi-district
  elections by direct popular vote to serve five-year terms)
  elections: elections last held 10 December 2000 with by-elections on
  14 January 2001 (next to be held in November 2008 after the
  government postponed the elections in 2005 and 2006)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  FPI 96, PDCI-RDA 94, RDR 5, PIT 4, other 2, independents 22, vacant 2
  note: a Senate that was scheduled to be created in the October 2006
  elections never took place

Croatia
  unicameral Assembly or Sabor (153 seats; members elected
  from party lists by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held 25 November 2007 (next to be held in November
  2011)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; number of seats by
  party - HDZ 66, SDP 56, HNS 7, HSS 6, HDSSB 3, IDS 3, SDSS 3, other 9

Cuba
  unicameral National Assembly of People's Power or Asemblea
  Nacional del Poder Popular (number of seats in the National Assembly
  is based on population; 614 seats; members elected directly from
  slates approved by special candidacy commissions to serve five-year
  terms)
  elections: last held 20 January 2008 (next to be held in January
  2013)
  election results: Cuba's Communist Party is the only legal party,
  and officially sanctioned candidates run unopposed

Cyprus
  unicameral - area under government control: House of
  Representatives or Vouli Antiprosopon (80 seats, 56 assigned to the
  Greek Cypriots, 24 to Turkish Cypriots; note - only those assigned
  to Greek Cypriots are filled; members are elected by popular vote to
  serve five-year terms); area administered by Turkish Cypriots:
  Assembly of the Republic or Cumhuriyet Meclisi (50 seats; members
  are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
  elections: area under government control: last held 21 May 2006
  (next to be held 2011); area administered by Turkish Cypriots: last
  held 14 December 2003 (next to be held in 2008)
  election results: area under government control: House of
  Representatives - percent of vote by party - AKEL 31.1%, DISY 30.3%,
  DIKO 17.9%, EDEK 8.9%, EURO.KO 5.8%, Greens 2.0%; seats by party -
  AKEL (Communist) 18, DISY 18, DIKO 11, EDEK 5, EURO.KO 3, Greens 1;
  area administered by Turkish Cypriots: Assembly of the Republic -
  percent of vote by party - CTP 35.8%, UBP 32.3%, Peace and
  Democratic Movement 13.4%, DP 12.3%; seats by party - CTP 19, UBP
  18, Peace and Democratic Movement 6, DP 7; note - "TRNC" seats by
  party as of September 2006 - CTP 25, OP 3, UBP 13, DP 6, BDH 1,
  independents 2

Czech Republic
  bicameral Parliament or Parlament consists of the
  Senate or Senat (81 seats; members are elected by popular vote to
  serve six-year terms; one-third elected every two years) and the
  Chamber of Deputies or Poslanecka Snemovna (200 seats; members are
  elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
  elections: Senate - last held in two rounds 17-18 and 24-25 October
  2008 (next to be held in October 2010); Chamber of Deputies - last
  held 2-3 June 2006 (next to be held by June 2010)
  election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
  party - ODS 35, CSSD 29, KDU-CSL 7, others 8, independents 2;
  Chamber of Deputies - percent of vote by party - ODS 35.4%, CSSD
  32.3%, KSCM 12.8%, KDU-CSL 7.2%, Greens 6.3%, other 6%; seats by
  party - ODS 81, CSSD 74, KSCM 26, KDU-CSL 13, Greens 6; note - seats
  by party as of December 2007 - ODS 81, CSSD 72, KSCM 26, KDU-CSL 13,
  Greens 6, unaffiliated 2 (former CSSD members)

Denmark
  unicameral People's Assembly or Folketinget (179 seats,
  including 2 from Greenland and 2 from the Faroe Islands; members are
  elected by popular vote on the basis of proportional representation
  to serve four-year terms unless the Folketinget is dissolved earlier)
  elections: last held 13 November 2007 (next to be held in 2011)
  election results: percent of vote by party - Liberal Party 26.2%,
  Social Democrats 25.5%, Danish People's Party 13.9%, Socialist
  People's Party 13.0%, Conservative People's Party 10.4%, Social
  Liberal Party 5.1%, New Alliance 2.8%, Red-Green Alliance 2.2%,
  other 0.9%; seats by party - Liberal Party 46, Social Democrats 45,
  Danish People's Party 25, Socialist People's Party 23, Conservative
  People's Party 18, Social Liberal Party 9, New Alliance 5, Red-Green
  Alliance 4; note - does not include the two seats from Greenland and
  the two seats from the Faroe Islands

Djibouti
  unicameral Chamber of Deputies or Chambre des Deputes (65
  seats; members elected by popular vote for five-year terms)
  elections: last held 8 February 2008 (next to be held 2013)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats - UMP
  (coalition of parties associated with President Ismail Omar GUELLAH)
  65

Dominica
  unicameral House of Assembly (30 seats; 9 members
  appointed, 21 elected by popular vote; to serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held 5 May 2005 (next to be held by 5 August 2010);
  note - tradition dictates that the election will be held within five
  years of the last election, but technically it is five years from
  the first seating of parliament (12 May 2005) plus a 90-day grace
  period
  election results: percent of vote by party - DLP 52.1%, UWP 43.6%,
  DFP 3.2%, other 1.1%; seats by party - DLP 12, UWP 8, independent 1

Dominican Republic
  bicameral National Congress or Congreso Nacional
  consists of the Senate or Senado (32 seats; members are elected by
  popular vote to serve four-year terms) and the House of
  Representatives or Camara de Diputados (178 seats; members are
  elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
  elections: Senate - last held 16 May 2006 (next to be held in May
  2010); House of Representatives - last held 16 May 2006 (next to be
  held in May 2010)
  election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
  party - PLD 22, PRD 6, PRSC 4; House of Representatives - percent of
  vote by party - NA; seats by party - PLD 96, PRD 60, PRSC 22

Ecuador
  unicameral National Congress or Congreso Nacional (100
  seats; members are elected through a party-list proportional
  representation system to serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held 15 October 2006 (next to be held in October
  2010)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  PRIAN 28; PSP 24; PSC 13; ID 7; PRE 6; MUPP-NP 6; RED 5; UDC 5;
  other 6; note - defections by members of National Congress are
  commonplace, resulting in frequent changes in the numbers of seats
  held by the various parties; as of 29 November 2007, Congress is on
  indefinite recess while a Constituent Assembly is convened

Egypt
  bicameral system consists of the People's Assembly or Majlis
  al-Sha'b (454 seats; 444 elected by popular vote, 10 appointed by
  the president; members serve five-year terms) and the Advisory
  Council or Majlis al-Shura that traditionally functions only in a
  consultative role but 2007 constitutional amendments could grant the
  Council new powers (264 seats; 176 elected by popular vote, 88
  appointed by the president; members serve six-year terms; mid-term
  elections for half of the elected members)
  elections: People's Assembly - three-phase voting - last held 7 and
  20 November, 1 December 2005;(next to be held November-December
  2010); Advisory Council - last held June 2007 (next to be held
  May-June 2010)
  election results: People's Assembly - percent of vote by party - NA;
  seats by party - NDP 311, NWP 6, Tagammu 2, Tomorrow Party 1,
  independents 112 (12 seats to be determined by rerun elections, 10
  seats appointed by President); Advisory Council - percent of vote by
  party - NA; seats by party - NDP 84, Tagammu 1, independents 3

El Salvador
  unicameral Legislative Assembly or Asamblea Legislativa
  (84 seats; members are elected by direct, popular vote to serve
  three-year terms)
  elections: last held 12 March 2006 (next to be held in March 2009)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  ARENA 34, FMLN 32, PCN 10, PDC 6, CD 2

Equatorial Guinea
  unicameral House of People's Representatives or
  Camara de Representantes del Pueblo (100 seats; members directly
  elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held 25 April 2004 (next to be held 4 May 2008)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  PDGE 98, CPDS 2
  note: Parliament has little power since the constitution vests all
  executive authority in the president

Eritrea
  unicameral National Assembly (150 seats; members elected by
  direct popular vote to serve five-year terms)
  elections: in May 1997, following the adoption of the new
  constitution, 75 members of the PFDJ Central Committee (the old
  Central Committee of the EPLF), 60 members of the 527-member
  Constituent Assembly, which had been established in 1997 to discuss
  and ratify the new constitution, and 15 representatives of Eritreans
  living abroad were formed into a Transitional National Assembly to
  serve as the country's legislative body until countrywide elections
  to a National Assembly were held; although only 75 of 150 members of
  the Transitional National Assembly were elected, the constitution
  stipulates that once past the transition stage, all members of the
  National Assembly will be elected by secret ballot of all eligible
  voters; National Assembly elections scheduled for December 2001 were
  postponed indefinitely

Estonia
  unicameral Parliament or Riigikogu (101 seats; members are
  elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held 4 March 2007 (next to be held in March 2011)
  election results: percent of vote by party - Estonian Reform Party
  27.8%, Center Party of Estonia 26.1%, Union of Pro Patria and Res
  Publica 17.9%, Social Democratic Party 10.6%, Estonian Greens 7.1%,
  Estonian People's Union 7.1%, other 5%; seats by party - Estonian
  Reform Party 31, Center Party 29, Union of Pro Patria and Res
  Publica 19, Social Democratic Party 10, Estonian Greens 6, Estonian
  People's Union 6

Ethiopia
  bicameral Parliament consists of the House of Federation
  (or upper chamber responsible for interpreting the constitution and
  federal-regional issues) (108 seats; members are chosen by state
  assemblies to serve five-year terms) and the House of People's
  Representatives (or lower chamber responsible for passing
  legislation) (547 seats; members are directly elected by popular
  vote from single-member districts to serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held 15 May 2005 (next to be held in 2010)
  election results: percent of vote - NA; seats by party - EPRDF 327,
  CUD 109, UEDF 52, SPDP 23, OFDM 11, BGPDUF 8, ANDP 8, independent 1,
  others 6, undeclared 2
  note: some seats still remain vacant as detained opposition MPs did
  not take their seats

European Union
  two legislative bodies consisting of the Council of
  the European Union (27 member-state ministers having 345 votes; the
  number of votes is roughly proportional to member-states'
  population; note - the Council is the main decision-making body of
  the EU) and the European Parliament (785 seats, as of 1 January
  2007; seats allocated among member states by proportion to
  population; members elected by direct universal suffrage for a
  five-year term)
  elections: last held 10-13 June 2004 (next to be held June 2009)
  election results: percent of vote - NA; seats by party - EPP-ED 268,
  PES 202, ALDE 88, Greens/EFA 42, EUL/NGL 41, IND/DEM 36, UEN 27,
  independents 28; note - seats by party as of 1 December 2007 -
  EPP-ED 275, PES 217, ALDE 104, UEN 44, Greens/EFA 42, EUL/NGL 41,
  IND/DEM 24, independents 34, 4 unaccounted for

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  unicameral Legislative Council (10
  seats; 2 members are ex officio and 8 are elected by popular vote;
  to serve four-year terms); presided over by the governor
  elections: last held 17 November 2005 (next to be held in November
  2009)
  election results: percent of vote - NA; seats - independents 8

Faroe Islands
  unicameral Faroese Parliament or Logting (33 seats;
  members are elected by popular vote on a proportional basis from the
  seven constituencies to serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held 19 January 2008 (next to be held no later than
  January 2012)
  election results: percent of vote by party - Union Party 21%, Social
  Democratic Party 19.4%, Republican Party 23.3%, People's Party
  20.1%, Center Party 8.4%, Self-Government Party 7.2%, other 0.6%;
  seats by party - Republican Party 8, Union Party 7, Social
  Democratic Party 6, People's Party 7, Center Party 3, Independence
  Party 2
  note: election of two seats to the Danish Parliament was last held
  on 13 November 2007 (next to be held no later than November 2011);
  results - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - Republican
  Party 1, Union Party 1

Fiji
  bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (32 seats; 14
  appointed by the president on the advice of the Great Council of
  Chiefs, 9 appointed by the president on the advice of the Prime
  Minister, 8 on the advice of the Opposition Leader, and 1 appointed
  on the advice of the council of Rotuma) and the House of
  Representatives (71 seats; 23 reserved for ethnic Fijians, 19
  reserved for ethnic Indians, 3 reserved for other ethnic groups, 1
  reserved for the council of Rotuma constituency encompassing the
  whole of Fiji, and 25 open seats; members serve five-year terms)
  elections: House of Representatives - last held 6-13 May 2006 (next
  to be held in 2011)
  election results: House of Representatives - percent of vote by
  party - SDL 44.6%, FLP 39.2%, UPP 0.8%, independents 4.9%, other
  10.5%; seats by party - SDL 36, FLP 31, UPP 2, independents 2

Finland
  unicameral Parliament or Eduskunta (200 seats; members are
  elected by popular vote on a proportional basis to serve four-year
  terms)
  elections: last held 18 March 2007 (next to be held March 2011)
  election results: percent of vote by party - Kesk 23.1%, Kok 22.3%,
  SDP 21.4%, VAS 8.8%, VIHR 8.5%, KD 4.9%, SFP 4.5%, True Finns 4.1%,
  other 3.4%; seats by party - Kesk 51, Kok 50, SDP 45, VAS 17, VIHR
  15, SFP 9, KD 7, True Finns 5, other 1

France
  bicameral Parliament or Parlement consists of the Senate or
  Senat (331 seats, 305 for metropolitan France, 9 for overseas
  departments, 5 for dependencies, and 12 for French nationals abroad;
  members are indirectly elected by an electoral college to serve
  six-year terms; one third elected every three years); note - between
  2006 and 2011, 15 new seats will be added to the Senate for a total
  of 348 seats - 326 for metropolitan France and overseas departments,
  2 for New Caledonia, 2 for Mayotte, 1 for Saint-Pierre and Miquelon,
  1 for Saint-Barthelemy, 1 for Saint-Martin, 3 for overseas
  territories, and 12 for French nationals abroad; starting in 2008,
  members will be indirectly elected by an electoral college to serve
  six-year terms, with one-half elected every three years; and the
  National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale (577 seats, 555 for
  metropolitan France, 15 for overseas departments, 7 for
  dependencies; members are elected by popular vote under a
  single-member majority system to serve five-year terms)
  elections: Senate - last held 26 September 2004 (next to be held in
  September 2008); National Assembly - last held 10 and 17 June 2007
  (next to be held in June 2012)
  election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
  party - UMP 156, PS 97, UDF (now MoDem) 33, PCF 23, RDSE 15, other
  7; National Assembly - percent of vote by party - UMP 46.37%, PS
  42.25%, miscellaneous left wing parties 2.47%, PCF 2.28%, NC 2.12%,
  PRG 1.65%, miscellaneous right wing parties 1.17%, the Greens 0.45,
  other 1.24%; seats by party - UMP 313, PS 186, NC 22, miscellaneous
  left wing parties 15, PCF 15, miscellaneous right wing parties 9,
  PRG 7, the Greens 4, other 6

French Polynesia
  unicameral Territorial Assembly or Assemblee
  Territoriale (57 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
  five-year terms)
  elections: last held 27 January 2008 (first round) and 10 February
  2008 (second round) (next to be held NA 2013)
  election results: percent of vote by party - Our Home alliance
  45.2%, Union for Democracy alliance 37.2%, Popular Rally (Tahoeraa
  Huiraatira) 17.2% other 0.5%; seats by party - Our Home alliance 27,
  Union for Democracy alliance 20, Popular Rally 10
  note: one seat was elected to the French Senate on 27 September 1998
  (next to be held in September 2007); results - percent of vote by
  party - NA; seats by party - NA; two seats were elected to the
  French National Assembly on 9 June-16 June 2002 (next to be held in
  2007); results - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  UMP/RPR 1, UMP 1

Gabon
  bicameral legislature consists of the Senate (91 seats;
  members elected by members of municipal councils and departmental
  assemblies to serve six-year terms) and the National Assembly or
  Assemblee Nationale (120 seats; members are elected by direct,
  popular vote to serve five-year terms)
  elections: Senate - last held 26 January and 9 February 2003 (next
  to be held by January 2009); National Assembly - last held 17 and 24
  December 2006 (next to be held in December 2011)
  election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
  party - PDG 53, RNB 20, PGP 4, ADERE 3, RDP 1, CLR 1, independents
  9; National Assembly - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party
  - PDG 82, RPG 8, UPG 8, UGDD 4, ADERE 3, CLR 2, PGP-Ndaot 2, PSD 2,
  independents 4, others 5

Gambia, The
  unicameral National Assembly (53 seats; 48 members
  elected by popular vote, 5 appointed by the president; to serve
  five-year terms)
  elections: last held 25 January 2007 (next to be held in 2012)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  APRC 47, UDP 4, NADD 1, independent 1

Georgia
  unicameral Parliament or Parlamenti (also known as Supreme
  Council or Umaghlesi Sabcho) (235 seats; 150 members elected by
  proportional representation, 75 from single-seat constituencies, and
  10 represent displaced persons from Abkhazia; to serve five-year
  terms)
  elections: last held 21 May 2008 (next to be held in spring 2012)
  election results: percent of vote by party - National
  Movement-Democratic Front 59.2%, National Council-New Rights 17.7%,
  other parties 23.1%; seats by party - National Movement-Democratic
  Front 120, National Council-New Rights 16

Germany
  bicameral Parliament or Parlament consists of the Federal
  Assembly or Bundestag (614 seats; elected by popular vote under a
  system combining direct and proportional representation; a party
  must win 5% of the national vote or three direct mandates to gain
  proportional representation and caucus recognition; to serve
  four-year terms) and the Federal Council or Bundesrat (69 votes;
  state governments are directly represented by votes; each has three
  to six votes depending on population and are required to vote as a
  block)
  elections: Bundestag - last held on 18 September 2005 (next to be
  held no later than autumn 2009); note - there are no elections for
  the Bundesrat; composition is determined by the composition of the
  state-level governments; the composition of the Bundesrat has the
  potential to change any time one of the 16 states holds an election
  election results: Bundestag - percent of vote by party - CDU/CSU
  35.2%, SPD 34.3%, FDP 9.8%, Left 8.7%, Greens 8.1%, other 3.9%;
  seats by party - CDU/CSU 225, SPD 222, FDP 61, Left 53, Greens 51,
  independents 2

Ghana
  unicameral Parliament (230 seats; members are elected by
  direct, popular vote to serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held 7 December 2004 (next to be held 7 December
  2008)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  NPP 128, NDC 94, PNC 4, CPP 3, independent 1

Gibraltar
  unicameral Parliament (18 seats: 17 members elected by
  popular vote, 1 for the Speaker appointed by Parliament; to serve
  four-year terms)
  elections: last held 11 October 2007 (next to be held not later than
  October 2011)
  election results: percent of vote by party - GSD 49.3%, GSLP 31.8%,
  Gibraltar Liberal Party 13.6%; seats by party - GSD 10, GSLP 4,
  Gibraltar Liberal Party 3

Greece
  unicameral Parliament or Vouli ton Ellinon (300 seats;
  members are elected by direct popular vote to serve four-year terms)
  elections: elections last held 16 September 2007 (next to be held by
  2011)
  election results: percent of vote by party - ND 41.8%, PASOK 38.1%,
  KKE 8.2%, Synaspismos 5%, LAOS 3.8%, other 3.1%; seats by party - ND
  152, PASOK 102, KKE 22, Synaspismos 14, LAOS 10

Greenland
  unicameral Parliament or Landstinget (31 seats; members
  are elected by popular vote on the basis of proportional
  representation to serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held on 15 November 2005 (next to be held by
  December 2009)
  election results: percent of vote by party - Siumut 30.7%,
  Demokratiit 22.8%, IA 22.6%, Atassut Party 19.1%; Katusseqatigiit
  4.1%, other 0.7%; seats by party - Siumut 10, Demokratiit 7, IA 7,
  Atassut 6, Katusseqatigiit 1
  note: two representatives were elected to the Danish Parliament or
  Folketing on 13 November 2007 (next to be held in November 2011);
  percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - Siumut 1, Inuit
  Ataqatigiit 1

Grenada
  bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (13 seats, 10
  appointed by the government and 3 by the leader of the opposition)
  and the House of Representatives (15 seats; members are elected by
  popular vote to serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held on 8 July 2008 (next to be held in 2013)
  election results: House of Representatives - percent of vote by
  party - NA; seats by party - NDC 11, NNP 4

Guam
  unicameral Legislature (15 seats; members are elected by
  popular vote to serve two-year terms)
  elections: last held 7 November 2006 (next to be held in November
  2008)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  Republican Party 8, Democratic Party 7
  note: Guam elects one nonvoting delegate to the US House of
  Representatives; election last held 7 November 2006 (next to be held
  in November 2008); results - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
  party - Democratic Party 1

Guatemala
  unicameral Congress of the Republic or Congreso de la
  Republica (158 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
  four-year terms)
  elections: last held 9 September 2007 (next to be held in September
  2011)
  election results: percent of vote by party - UNE 30.4%, GANA 23.4%,
  PP 18.9%, FRG 9.5%, PU 5.1%, other 12.7%; seats by party - UNE 48,
  GANA 37, PP 30, FRG 15, PU 8, CASA 5, EG 4, PAN 4, UCN 4, URNG 2, UD
  1

Guernsey
  unicameral States of Deliberation (45 seats; members are
  elected by popular vote for four years); note - Alderney and Sark
  have parliaments
  elections: last held 23 April 2008 (next to be held in 2012)
  election results: percent of vote - NA; seats - all independents

Guinea
  unicameral People's National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale
  Populaire (114 seats; members are elected by a mixed system of
  direct popular vote and proportional party lists)
  elections: last held 30 June 2002 (next to be held in 2008)
  election results: percent of vote by party - PUP 61.6%, UPR 26.6%,
  other 11.8%; seats by party - PUP 85, UPR 20, other 9
  note: legislative elections were due in 2007 but have been postponed

Guinea-Bissau
  unicameral National People's Assembly or Assembleia
  Nacional Popular (100 seats; members are elected by popular vote to
  serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held 28 March 2004 (next to be held 16 November 2008)
  election results: percent of vote by party - PAIGC 31.5%, PRS 24.8%,
  PUSD 16.1%, UE 4.1%, APU 1.3%, 13 other parties 22.2%; seats by
  party - PAIGC 45, PRS 35, PUSD 17, UE 2, APU 1

Guyana
  unicameral National Assembly (65 seats; members elected by
  popular vote, also not more than 4 non-elected non-voting ministers
  and 2 non-elected non-voting parliamentary secretaries appointed by
  the president; to serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held 28 August 2006 (next to be held by August 2011)
  election results: percent of vote by party - PPP/C 54.6%, PNC/R 34%,
  AFC 8.1%, other 3.3%; seats by party - PPP/C 36, PNC/R 22, AFC 5,
  other 2

Haiti
  bicameral National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale consists of
  the Senate (30 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve
  six-year terms; one-third elected every two years) and the Chamber
  of Deputies (99 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
  four-year terms); note - in reestablishing the Senate, the candidate
  in each department receiving the most votes in the last election
  serves six years, the candidate with the second most votes serves
  four years, and the candidate with the third most votes serves two
  years
  elections: Senate - last held 21 April 2006 with run-off elections
  on 3 December 2006 (next regular election, for one third of seats,
  to be held in 2008); Chamber of Deputies - last held 21 April 2006
  with run-off elections on 3 December 2006 and 29 April 2007 (next
  regular election to be held in 2010)
  election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
  party - L'ESPWA 11, FUSION 5, OPL 4, FL 3, LAAA 2, UNCRH 2, PONT 2,
  ALYANS 1; Chamber of Deputies - percent of vote by party - NA; seats
  by party - L'ESPWA 23, FUSION 17, FRN 12, OPL 10, ALYANS 10, LAAA 5,
  MPH 3, MOCHRENA 3, other 10; results for six other seats contested
  on 3 December 2006 remain unknown

Holy See (Vatican City)
  unicameral Pontifical Commission for the
  State of Vatican City

Honduras
  unicameral National Congress or Congreso Nacional (128
  seats; members are elected proportionally to the number of votes
  their party's presidential candidate receives to serve four-year
  terms)
  elections: last held 27 November 2005 (next to be held in November
  2009)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - PL
  62, PN 55, PUD 5, PDC 4, PINU 2

Hong Kong
  unicameral Legislative Council or LEGCO (60 seats; 30
  seats indirectly elected by functional constituencies, 30 elected by
  popular vote; members serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held 7 September 2008 (next to be held in September
  2012)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by parties -
  pro-Beijing 37; pro-democracy 23

Hungary
  unicameral National Assembly or Orszaggyules (386 seats;
  members are elected by popular vote under a system of proportional
  and direct representation to serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held 9 and 23 April 2006 (next to be held in April
  2010)
  election results: percent of vote by party (5% or more of the vote
  required for parliamentary representation in the first round) - MSzP
  43.2%, Fidesz-KDNP 42%, SzDSz 6.5%, MDF 5%, other 3.3%; seats by
  party - MSzP 190, Fidesz-KDNP 164, SzDSz 20, MDF 11, independent 1;
  seats by party as of September 2008 - MSzP 189, Fidesz-KDNP 162,
  SzDSz 20, MDF 11, independent 3, vacant 1

Iceland
  unicameral Parliament or Althing (63 seats; members are
  elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held 12 May 2007 (next to be held by May 2011)
  election results: percent of vote by party - Independence Party
  36.6%, Social Democratic Alliance 26.8%, Progressive Party 11.7%,
  Left-Green Movement 14.3%, Liberal Party 7.3%, other 3.3%; seats by
  party - Independence Party 25, Social Democratic Alliance 18,
  Progressive Party 7, Left-Green Alliance 9, Liberal Party 4

India
  bicameral Parliament or Sansad consists of the Council of
  States or Rajya Sabha (a body consisting of not more than 250
  members up to 12 of whom are appointed by the president, the
  remainder are chosen by the elected members of the state and
  territorial assemblies; members serve six-year terms) and the
  People's Assembly or Lok Sabha (545 seats; 543 elected by popular
  vote, 2 appointed by the president; members serve five-year terms)
  elections: People's Assembly - last held 20 April through 10 May
  2004 (next must be held by May 2009)
  election results: People's Assembly - percent of vote by party - NA;
  seats by party - INC 147, BJP 129, CPI (M) 43, SP 38, RJD 23, DMK
  16, BSP 15, SS 12, BJD 11, CPI 10, NCP 10, JD (U) 8, SAD 8, PMK 6,
  JMM 5, LJSP 4, MDMK 4, TDP 4, TRS 4, independent 6, other 29, vacant
  13; note - seats by party as of December 2006

Indonesia
  House of Representatives or Dewan Perwakilan Rakyat (DPR)
  (550 seats; members elected to serve five-year terms); House of
  Regional Representatives (Dewan Perwakilan Daerah or DPD),
  constitutionally mandated role includes providing legislative input
  to DPR on issues affecting regions; People's Consultative Assembly
  (Majelis Permusyawaratan Rakyat or MPR) has role in inaugurating and
  impeaching president and in amending constitution; consists of
  popularly elected members in DPR and DPD; MPR does not formulate
  national policy
  elections: last held 5 April 2004 (next to be held 8 or 9 April 2009)
  election results: percent of vote by party - Golkar 21.6%, PDI-P
  18.5%, PKB 10.6%, PPP 8.2%, PD 7.5%, PKS 7.3%, PAN 6.4%, others
  19.9%; seats by party - Golkar 128, PDI-P 109, PPP 58, PD 55, PAN
  53, PKB 52, PKS 45, others 50
  note: because of election rules, the number of seats won does not
  always follow the percentage of votes received by parties

Iran
  unicameral Islamic Consultative Assembly or
  Majles-e-Shura-ye-Eslami or Majles (290 seats; members elected by
  popular vote to serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held 14 March 2008 with a runoff held 25 April 2008
  (next to be held in 2012)
  election results: percent of vote - NA; seats by party -
  conservatives/Islamists 170, reformers 46, independents 71,
  religious minorities 3

Iraq
  Council of Representatives (consisting of 275 members elected
  by a closed-list, proportional representation system)
  elections: last held 15 December 2005 to elect a 275-member Council
  of Representatives (next to be held January 2009); the Council of
  Representatives elected the Presidency Council and approved the
  prime minister and two deputy prime ministers
  election results: Council of Representatives - percent of vote by
  party - Unified Iraqi Alliance 41%, Kurdistan Alliance 22%, Tawafuq
  Coalition 15%, Iraqi National List 8%, Iraqi Front for National
  Dialogue 4%, other 10%; number of seats by party (as of November
  2007) - Unified Iraqi Alliance (including the Sadrist bloc with 30
  and Fadilah with 15) 130, Kurdistan Alliance 53, Tawafuq Front 44,
  Iraqi National List 25, Fadilah 15, Iraqi Front for National
  Dialogue 11, other 12

Ireland
  bicameral Parliament or Oireachtas consists of the Senate or
  Seanad Eireann (60 seats; 49 members elected by the universities and
  from candidates put forward by five vocational panels, 11 are
  nominated by the prime minister; to serve five-year terms) and the
  House of Representatives or Dail Eireann (166 seats; members are
  elected by popular vote on the basis of proportional representation
  to serve five-year terms)
  elections: Senate - last held in July 2007 (next to be held by July
  2012); House of Representatives - last held 24 May 2007 (next to be
  held by May 2012)
  election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
  party - Fianna Fail 28, Fine Gael 14, Labor Party 6, Progressive
  Democrats 2, Green Party 2, Sein Fein 1, independents 7; House of
  Representatives - percent of vote by party - Fianna Fail 41.6%, Fine
  Gael 27.3%, Labor Party 10.1%, Sinn Fein 6.9%, Green Party 4.7%,
  Progressive Democrats 2.7%, other 6.7%; seats by party - Fianna Fail
  78, Fine Gael 51, Labor Party 20, Sinn Fein 4, Green Party 6,
  Progressive Democrats 2, other 5

Isle of Man
  bicameral Tynwald consists of the Legislative Council
  (11 seats; members composed of the President of Tynwald, the Lord
  Bishop of Sodor and Man, a nonvoting attorney general, and 8 others
  named by the House of Keys) and the House of Keys (24 seats; members
  are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
  elections: House of Keys - last held 23 November 2006 (next to be
  held in November 2011)
  election results: House of Keys - percent of vote by party - NA;
  seats by party - Liberal Vannin Party 2, Man Labor Party 1,
  independents 21

Israel
  unicameral Knesset (120 seats; members elected by popular
  vote to serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held 28 March 2006 (next scheduled to be held in
  February 2009)
  election results: percent of vote by party - Kadima 22%, Labor
  15.1%, SHAS 9.5%, Likud 9%, Yisrael Beiteinu 9%, NU/NRP 7.1%, GIL
  5.9%, Torah and Shabbat Judaism 4.7%, Meretz-YAHAD 3.8%, United Arab
  List 3%, Balad 2.3%, HADASH 2.7%, other 5.9%; seats by party -
  Kadima 29, Labor 19, Likud 12, SHAS 12, Yisrael Beiteinu 11, NU/NRP
  9, GIL 7, Torah and Shabbat Judaism 6, Meretz-YAHAD 5, United Arab
  List 4, Balad 3, HADASH 3

Italy
  bicameral Parliament or Parlamento consists of the Senate or
  Senato della Repubblica (315 seats; members elected by proportional
  vote with the winning coalition in each region receiving 55% of
  seats from that region; to serve five-year terms) and the Chamber of
  Deputies or Camera dei Deputati (630 seats; members elected by
  popular vote with the winning national coalition receiving 54% of
  chamber seats; to serve five-year terms)
  elections: Senate - last held 13-14 April 2008 (next to be held
  April 2010); Chamber of Deputies - last held 13-14 April 2008 (next
  to be held in April 2010)
  election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
  party - S. BERLUSCONI coalition 174 (PdL 147, LN 25, MpA 2), W.
  VELTRONI coalition 132 (PD 118, IdV 3), UdC 3, other 6; Chamber of
  Deputies - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - S.
  BERLUSCONI coalition 344 (PdL 276, LN 60, MpA 8), W. VELTRONI
  coalition 246 (PD 217, IdV 29), UdC 36, other 4

Jamaica
  bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (a 21-member
  body appointed by the governor general on the recommendations of the
  prime minister and the leader of the opposition; ruling party is
  allocated 13 seats, and the opposition is allocated 8 seats) and the
  House of Representatives (60 seats; members are elected by popular
  vote to serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held 3 September 2007 (next to be held no later than
  October 2012)
  election results: percent of vote by party - JLP 50.1%, PNP 49.8%;
  seats by party - JLP 33, PNP 27

Japan
  bicameral Diet or Kokkai consists of the House of Councillors
  or Sangi-in (242 seats - members elected for six-year terms; half
  reelected every three years; 146 members in multi-seat
  constituencies and 96 by proportional representation) and the House
  of Representatives or Shugi-in (480 seats - members elected for
  four-year terms; 300 in single-seat constituencies; 180 members by
  proportional representation in 11 regional blocs)
  elections: House of Councillors - last held 29 July 2007 (next to be
  held in July 2010); House of Representatives - last held 11
  September 2005 (next election by September 2009)
  election results: House of Councillors - percent of vote by party -
  NA; seats by party - DPJ 109, LDP 83, Komeito 20, JCP 7, SDP 5,
  others 18
  House of Representatives - percent of vote by party (in single-seat
  constituencies) - LDP 47.8%, DPJ 36.4%, others 15.8%; seats by party
  - LDP 296, DPJ 113, Komeito 31, JCP 9, SDP 7, others 24 (2007)

Jersey
  unicameral Assembly of the States of Jersey (58 seats; 55 are
  voting members, of which 12 are senators elected for six-year terms,
  12 are constables or heads of parishes elected for three-year terms,
  29 are deputies elected for three-year terms, the bailiff and the
  deputy bailiff, and 3 non-voting members includes the Dean of
  Jersey, the Attorney General, and the Solicitor General appointed by
  the monarch)
  elections: last held 19 October 2005 for senators and 23 November
  2005 for deputies (next to be held on 15 October 2008)
  election results: percent of vote - NA; seats - independents 55

Jordan
  bicameral National Assembly or Majlis al-'Umma consists of
  the Senate, also called the House of Notables or Majlis al-Ayan (55
  seats; members appointed by the monarch from designated categories
  of public figures to serve four-year terms) and the Chamber of
  Deputies, also called the House of Representatives or Majlis
  al-Nuwaab (110 seats; members elected by popular vote on the basis
  of proportional representation to serve four-year terms; note - six
  seats are reserved for women and are allocated by a special
  electoral panel if no women are elected)
  elections: Chamber of Deputies - last held 20 November 2007 (next to
  be held in 2011)
  election results: Chamber of Deputies - percent of vote by party -
  IAF 5.5 %, independents and other 94.5%; seats by party - IAF 6,
  independents and other 104; note - seven women will serve in the
  next Assembly - six of whom filled women's quota seats and one was
  directly elected

Kazakhstan
  bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (47 seats; 7
  members are appointed by the president; other members are elected by
  local assemblies; to serve six-year terms) and the Mazhilis (107
  seats; 9 out of the 107 Mazhilis members are elected from the
  Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan, which represents the country's
  ethnic minorities; members are popularly elected to serve five-year
  terms)
  elections: Senate - (indirect) last held December 2005; next to be
  held in 2011; Mazhilis - last held 18 August 2007 (next to be held
  in 2012)
  election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
  party - NA; Mazhilis - percent of vote by party - Nur-Otan 88.1%,
  NSDP 4.6%, Ak Zhol 3.3%, Auyl 1.6%, Communist People's Party 1.3%,
  Patriots Party .8% Ruhaniyat .4%; seats by party - Nur-Otan 98; note
  - parties must achieve a threshold of 7% of the electorate to
  qualify for seats in the Mazhilis

Kenya
  unicameral National Assembly or Bunge (224 seats; 210 members
  elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms, 12 so-called
  "nominated" members who are appointed by the president but selected
  by the parties in proportion to their parliamentary vote totals, 2
  ex-officio members)
  elections: last held 27 December 2007 (next to be held in December
  2012)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  ODM 99, PNU 43, ODM-K 16, KANU 14 other 38; ex-officio 2; seats
  appointed by the president - TBD

Kiribati
  unicameral House of Parliament or Maneaba Ni Maungatabu (46
  seats; 44 members elected by popular vote, 1 ex officio member - the
  attorney general, 1 nominated by the Rabi Council of Leaders
  (representing Banaba Island); to serve four-year terms)
  elections: legislative elections were held in two rounds - the first
  round on 22 August 2007 and the second round on 30 August 2007 (next
  to be held in 2011)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  NA, other 2 (includes attorney general)

Korea, North
  unicameral Supreme People's Assembly or Ch'oego Inmin
  Hoeui (687 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve five-year
  terms)
  elections: last held 3 August 2003 (next to be held in August 2008)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  NA; ruling party approves a list of candidates who are elected
  without opposition; some seats are held by minor parties

Korea, South
  unicameral National Assembly or Kukhoe (299 seats; 243
  members elected in single-seat constituencies, 56 elected by
  proportional representation; to serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held 9 April 2008 (next to be held in April 2012)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  GNP 153, UDP 81, LFP 18, Pro-Park Alliance 14, DLP 5, CKP 3,
  independents 25

Kosovo
  unicameral Kosovo Assembly of the Provisional Government (120
  seats; 100 seats directly elected, 10 seats for Serbs, 10 seats for
  other minorities; to serve three-year terms)
  elections: last held 17 November 2007 (next to be held in 2011)
  election results: percent of vote by party - PDK 34.3%, LDK 22.6%,
  AKR 12.3%, LDD 10.0%, AAK 9.6%, other 11.2%; seats by party - PDK
  37, LDK 25, AKR 13, LDD 11, AAK 10, other 4

Kuwait
  unicameral National Assembly or Majlis al-Umma (50 seats;
  members elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms; all
  cabinet ministers are also ex officio voting members of the National
  Assembly)
  elections: last held 17 May 2008 (next election to be held in 2012)
  election results: percent of vote by bloc - NA; seats by bloc -
  Sunni 21, Islamic Salafi Alliance 10, Liberals 7, Shiites 5, Popular
  Action Bloc 4, Islamic Constitutional Movement 3

Kyrgyzstan
  unicameral Supreme Council or Jorgorku Kengesh (90 seats;
  members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held 16 December 2007 (next to be held in 2012)
  election results: Supreme Council - percent of vote by party - NA;
  seats by party - Ak Jol 71, Social Democratic Party 11, KCP 8

Laos
  unicameral National Assembly (115 seats; members elected by
  popular vote from a list of candidates selected by the Lao People's
  Revolutionary Party to serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held 30 April 2006 (next to be held in 2011)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  LPRP 113, independents 2

Latvia
  unicameral Parliament or Saeima (100 seats; members are
  elected by proportional representation from party lists by popular
  vote to serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held 7 October 2006 (next to be held in October 2010)
  election results: percent of vote by party - TP 19.5%, ZZS 16.7%, JL
  16.4%, SC 14.4%; LPP/LC 8.6%; TB/LNNK 7%; PCTVL 6%; seats by party -
  TP 23, ZZS 18, JL 18, SC 17, LPP/LC 10, TB/LNNK 8, PCTVL 6; note -
  seats by party as of February 2008 - TP 21, ZZS 17, SC 17, JL 14,
  LPP/LC 10, TB/LNNK 5, PCTVL 6, independents 10

Lebanon
  unicameral National Assembly or Majlis Alnuwab (Arabic) or
  Assemblee Nationale (French) (128 seats; members elected by popular
  vote on the basis of sectarian proportional representation to serve
  four-year terms)
  elections: last held in four rounds on 29 May, 5, 12, 19 June 2005
  (next to be held in spring 2009)
  election results: percent of vote by group - NA; seats by group -
  Future Movement Bloc 36; Democratic Gathering 15; Development and
  Resistance Bloc 15; Free Patriotic Movement 15; Loyalty to the
  Resistance 14; Qornet Shehwan 6; Lebanese Forces 5; Popular Bloc 4;
  Tripoli Independent Bloc 3; Kataeb Reform Movement 2; Syrian
  National Socialist Party 2; Tashnaq 2; Syrian Ba'th Party 1;
  Democratic Left 1; Democratic Renewal Movement 1; Kataeb Party 1;
  Nasserite Popular Movement 1; independent 4

Lesotho
  bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (33 members - 22
  principal chiefs and 11 other members appointed by the ruling party)
  and the Assembly (120 seats, 80 by popular vote and 40 by
  proportional vote; members elected by popular vote for five-year
  terms)
  elections: last held 17 February 2007 (next to be held in 2012)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  LCD 61, NIP 21, ABC 17, LWP 10, ACP 4, BNP 3, other 4

Liberia
  bicameral National Assembly consists of the Senate (30
  seats; note - number of seats changed in 11 October 2005 elections;
  members elected by popular vote to serve nine-year terms) and the
  House of Representatives (64 seats; members elected by popular vote
  to serve six-year terms)
  elections: Senate - last held 11 October 2005 (next to be held in
  2011); House of Representatives - last held 11 October 2005 (next to
  be held in 2011)
  election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
  party - COTOL 7, NPP 4, CDC 3, LP 3, UP 3, APD 3, other 7; House of
  Representatives - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  CDC 15, LP 9, COTOL 8, UP 8, APD 5, NPP 4, other 15
  note: junior senators - those who received the second most votes in
  each county in the 11 October 2005 election - will only serve a
  six-year first term because the Liberian constitution mandates
  staggered Senate elections to ensure continuity of government; all
  senators will be eligible for nine-year terms thereafter

Libya
  unicameral General People's Congress (approximately 2,700
  seats; members elected indirectly through a hierarchy of people's
  committees)

Liechtenstein
  unicameral Parliament or Landtag (25 seats; members
  are elected by popular vote under proportional representation to
  serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held 11 and 13 March 2005 (next to be held by 2009)
  election results: percent of vote by party - FBP 48.7%, VU 38.2%, FL
  13%; seats by party - FBP 12, VU 10, FL 3

Lithuania
  unicameral Parliament or Seimas (141 seats; 71 members are
  elected by popular vote, 70 are elected by proportional
  representation; serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held 12 and 26 October 2008 (next to be held October
  2012)
  election results: percent of vote by party - TS 19.7%, TPP 15.1%, TT
  12.7%, LSDP 11.7%, KDP+J 9%, LRLS 5.7%, LCS 5.3%, LLRA 4.8%, LVLS
  3.7%, NS 3.6%, other 8.7%; seats by faction - TS 44, LSDP 26, TPP
  16, TT 15, LRLS 11, KDP+J 10, LCS 8, LLRA 3, LVLS 3, NS 1,
  independent 4

Luxembourg
  unicameral Chamber of Deputies or Chambre des Deputes (60
  seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held 13 June 2004 (next to be held by June 2009)
  election results: percent of vote by party - CSV 36.1%, LSAP 23.4%,
  DP 16.1%, Green Party 11.6%, ADR 10%, other 2.8%; seats by party -
  CSV 24, LSAP 14, DP 10, Green Party 7, ADR 5
  note: there is also a Council of State that serves as an advisory
  body to the Chamber of Deputies; the Council of State has 21 members
  appointed by the Grand Duke on the advice of the prime minister

Macau
  unicameral Legislative Assembly (29 seats; 12 members elected
  by popular vote, 10 by indirect vote, and 7 appointed by the chief
  executive; to serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held 25 September 2005 (next in September 2009)
  election results: percent of vote - New Democratic Macau Association
  18.8%, Macau United Citizens' Association 16.6%, Union for
  Development 13.3%, Union for Promoting Progress 9.6%, Macau
  Development Alliance 9.3%, others 32.4%; seats by political group -
  New Democratic Macau Association 2, Macau United Citizens'
  Association 2, Union for Development 2, Union for Promoting Progress
  2, Macau Development Alliance 1, others 3; 10 seats filled by
  professional and business groups; seven members appointed by chief
  executive

Macedonia
  unicameral Assembly or Sobranie (120 seats; members
  elected by popular vote from party lists based on the percentage of
  the overall vote the parties gain in each of six electoral
  districts; serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held 1 June 2008 (next to be held by July 2012)
  election results: percent of vote by party - For a Better Macedonia
  48.80%, Sun-Coalition for Europe 23.65%, Democratic Union for
  Integration 12.77%, Democratic Party of Albanians 8.48%, Party for
  European Future 1.47%, other 4.83%; seats by party - For a Better
  Macedonia 63, Sun-Coalition for Europe 27, Democratic Union for
  Integration 18, Democratic Party of Albanians 11, Party for European
  Future 1

Madagascar
  bicameral legislature consists of a National Assembly or
  Assemblee Nationale (127 seats - reduced from 160 seats by an April
  2007 national referendum; members are elected by popular vote to
  serve four-year terms) and a Senate or Senat (100 seats; two-thirds
  of the seats filled by regional assemblies; the remaining one-third
  of seats appointed by the president; to serve four-year terms)
  elections: National Assembly - last held 23 September 2007 (next to
  be held in 2011)
  election results: National Assembly - percent of vote by party - NA;
  seats by party - TIM 106, LEADER/Fanilo 1, independents 20

Malawi
  unicameral National Assembly (193 seats; members elected by
  popular vote to serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held 20 May 2004 (next to be held in May 2009)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  MCP 56, UDF 49, independents 39, RP 15, others 25, vacancies 8

Malaysia
  bicameral Parliament or Parlimen consists of Senate or
  Dewan Negara (70 seats; 44 appointed by paramount ruler, 26 elected
  by 13 state legislatures; to serve three-year terms with limit of
  two terms) and House of Representatives or Dewan Rakyat (222 seats;
  members elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
  elections: House of Representatives - last held on 8 March 2008
  (next to be held by March 2013)
  election results: House of Representatives - percent of vote - BN
  coalition 50.3%, opposition parties 46.8%, others 2.9%; seats - BN
  coalition 140, opposition parties 82

Maldives
  unicameral People's Council or Majlis (50 seats; 42 members
  elected by popular vote, 8 appointed by the president; to serve
  five-year terms)
  elections: last held 22 January 2005 (next to be held in 2010)
  election results: percent of vote - NA; seats - independents 50

Mali
  unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale (147 seats;
  members elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held on 1 and 22 July 2007 (next to be held in July
  2012)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  ADP coalition 113 (including ADEMA 51, URD 34, MPR 8, CNID 7, UDD 3,
  and other 10), FDR coalition 15 (including RPM 11, PARENA 4), SADI
  4, independent 15

Malta
  unicameral House of Representatives (usually 65 seats; members
  are elected by popular vote on the basis of proportional
  representation to serve five-year terms; note - additional seats are
  given to the party with the largest popular vote to ensure a
  legislative majority)
  elections: last held on 8 March 2008 (next to be held by March 2013)
  election results: percent of vote by party - PN 49.3%, MLP 48.8%,
  other 1.9%; seats by party - PN 35, MLP 34

Marshall Islands
  unicameral legislature or Nitijela (33 seats;
  members elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held 19 November 2007 (next to be held by November
  2011)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  independents 4
  note: the Council of Chiefs or Ironij is a 12-member body comprised
  of tribal chiefs that advises on matters affecting customary law and
  practice

Mauritania
  bicameral legislature consists of the Senate or Majlis
  al-Shuyukh (56 seats; 53 members elected by municipal leaders and 3
  members elected by Mauritanians abroad to serve six-year terms; a
  portion of seats up for election every two years) and the National
  Assembly or Majlis al-Watani (95 seats; members elected by popular
  vote to serve five-year terms)
  elections: Senate - last held 21 January and 4 February 2007 (next
  to be held 2009); National Assembly - last held 19 November and 3
  December 2006 (next to be held in 2011)
  election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
  party - Mithaq (coalition of independents and parties associated
  with the former regime) 37, CFCD (coalition of political parties)
  15, representatives of the diaspora 3, undecided 1; National
  Assembly - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - Mithaq 51
  (independents 37, PRDR 7, UDP 3, RDU 3, Alternative (El-Badil) 1),
  CFCD 41 (RFD 16, UFP 9, APP 6, Centrist Reformists 4, HATEM-PMUC 3,
  RD 2, PUDS 1), RNDLE 1, UCD 1, FP 1

Mauritius
  unicameral National Assembly (70 seats; 62 members elected
  by popular vote, 8 appointed by the election commission to give
  representation to various ethnic minorities; to serve five-year
  terms)
  elections: last held on 3 July 2005 (next to be held in 2010)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - AS
  38, MSM/MMM 22, OPR 2; appointed seats - AS 4, MSM/MMM 2, OPR 2

Mayotte
  unicameral General Council or Conseil General (19 seats;
  members are elected by popular vote to serve three-year terms)
  elections: last held 21 and 28 March 2004 (next to be held in 2007)
  election results: percent of vote by party - MDM 23.3%, UMP 22.8%,
  PS 10.2%, MRC 8.9%, FRAP 6.5%, MPM 1.2%, other 27.1%; seats by party
  - MDM 6, UMP 9, MRC 2, MPM 1, diverse left 1
  note: Mayotte elects one member of the French Senate; elections last
  held 24 September 2001 (next to be held in September 2007); results
  - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - NA; Mayotte also
  elects one member to the French National Assembly; elections last
  held 16 June 2002 (next to be held in 2007); results - percent of
  vote by party - UMP-RPR 55.1%, UDF 44.9%; seats by party - UMP-RPR 1

Mexico
  bicameral National Congress or Congreso de la Union consists
  of the Senate or Camara de Senadores (128 seats; 96 members are
  elected by popular vote to serve six-year terms, and 32 seats are
  allocated on the basis of each party's popular vote) and the Federal
  Chamber of Deputies or Camara Federal de Diputados (500 seats; 300
  members are elected by popular vote; remaining 200 members are
  allocated on the basis of each party's popular vote; to serve
  three-year terms)
  elections: Senate - last held 2 July 2006 for all of the seats (next
  to be held 1 July 2012); Chamber of Deputies - last held 2 July 2006
  (next to be held 5 July 2009)
  election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
  party - PAN 52, PRI 33, PRD 26, PVEM 6, CD 5, PT 5, independent 1;
  Chamber of Deputies - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party
  - PAN 207, PRD 127, PRI 106, PVEM 17, CD 17, PT 11, other 15

Micronesia, Federated States of
  unicameral Congress (14 seats; 4 -
  one elected from each state to serve four-year terms and 10 -
  elected from single-member districts delineated by population to
  serve two-year terms; members elected by popular vote)
  elections: last held 6 March 2007 (next to be held in March 2009)
  election results: percent of vote - NA%; seats - independents 14

Moldova
  unicameral Parliament or Parlamentul (101 seats; parties and
  electoral blocs elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held 6 March 2005 (next to be held in 2009)
  election results: percent of vote by party - PCRM 46.1%, Democratic
  Moldova Bloc (AMN, PD, PSL) 28.4%, PPCD 9.1%, other parties 16.4%;
  seats by party - PCRM 56, Democratic Moldova Bloc (AMN, PD, PSL) 34,
  PPCD 11

Monaco
  unicameral National Council or Conseil National (24 seats; 16
  members elected by list majority system, 8 by proportional
  representation; to serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held 3 February 2008 (next to be held February 2013)
  election results: percent of vote by party - UPM 52.2%, REM 40.5%,
  Monaco Together 7.3%; seats by party - UPM 21, REM 3

Mongolia
  unicameral State Great Hural 76 seats; members elected by
  popular vote to serve four-year terms
  elections: last held 29 June 2008 (next to be held in June 2012)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  MPRP 47, DP 26, others 3; note - results are disputed

Montenegro
  unicameral Assembly (81 seats; members elected by direct
  vote for four-year terms; changed from 74 seats in 2006)
  elections: last held 10 September 2006 (next to be held 2010)
  election results: percent of vote by party - Coalition for European
  Montenegro 47.7%, Serbian List 14.4%, Coalition SNP-NS-DSS 13.8%,
  PZP 12.9%, Liberals and Bosniaks 3.7%, other (including Albanian
  minority parties) 7.5%; seats by party - Coalition for European
  Montenegro 41, Serbian List 12, Coalition SNP/NS/DSS 11, PZP 11,
  Liberals and Bosniaks 3, Albanian minority parties 3

Montserrat
  unicameral Legislative Council (11 seats, 9 popularly
  elected; members serve five-year terms)
  note: expanded in 2001 from 7 to 9 elected members with attorney
  general and financial secretary sitting as ex-officio members
  elections: last held 31 May 2006 (next to be held by 2011)
  election results: percent of vote by party - MCAP 36.1%, NPLM 29.4%,
  MDP 24.4%, independents 10.1%; seats by party - MCAP 4, NPLM 3, MDP
  1, independents 1
  note: in 2001, the Elections Commission instituted a single
  constituency/voter-at-large system whereby all eligible voters cast
  ballots for all nine seats of the Legislative Council

Morocco
  bicameral Parliament consists of a Chamber of Counselors (or
  upper house) (270 seats; members elected indirectly by local
  councils, professional organizations, and labor syndicates for
  nine-year terms; one-third of the members are elected every three
  years) and Chamber of Representatives (or lower house) (325 seats;
  295 members elected by multi-seat constituencies and 30 from
  national lists of women; members elected by popular vote for
  five-year terms)
  elections: Chamber of Counselors - last held 8 September 2006 (next
  to be held in 2009); Chamber of Representatives - last held 7
  September 2007 (next to be held in 2012)
  election results: Chamber of Counselors - percent of vote by party -
  NA; seats by party - PI 17, MP 14, RNI 13, USFP 11, UC 6, PND 4, PPS
  4, Al Ahd 4, other 17; Chamber of Representatives - percent of vote
  by party - NA; seats by party - PI 52, PJD 46, MP 41, RNI 39, USFP
  38, UC 27, PPS 17, FFD 9, MDS 9, Al Ahd 8, other 39

Mozambique
  unicameral Assembly of the Republic or Assembleia da
  Republica (250 seats; members are directly elected by popular vote
  to serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held 1-2 December 2004 (next to be held in December
  2009)
  election results: percent of vote by party - FRELIMO 62%, RENAMO
  29.7%, other 8.3%; seats by party - FRELIMO 160, RENAMO 90

Namibia
  bicameral legislature consists of the National Council (26
  seats; two members are chosen from each regional council to serve
  six-year terms) and the National Assembly (72 seats; members are
  elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
  elections: National Council - elections for regional councils to
  determine members of the National Council held 29-30 November 2004
  (next to be held in November 2010); National Assembly - last held
  15-16 November 2004 (next to be held in November 2009)
  election results: National Council - percent of vote by party -
  SWAPO 89.7%, UDF 4.7%, NUDO 2.8%, DTA 1.9%, other 0.9%; seats by
  party - SWAPO 24, UDF 1, DTA 1; National Assembly - percent of vote
  by party - SWAPO 76.1%, COD 7.3%, DTA 5.1%, NUDO 4.2%, UDF 3.6%, RP
  1.9%, MAG 0.8%, other 1.0%; seats by party - SWAPO 55, COD 5, DTA 4,
  NUDO 3, UDF 3, RP 1, MAG 1
  note: the National Council is primarily an advisory body

Nauru
  unicameral Parliament (18 seats; members elected by popular
  vote to serve three-year terms)
  elections: last held 26 April 2008 (next to be held in 2011)
  election results: percent of vote - NA; seats - independents 18;
  note - President Marcus STEPHEN called a snap election to break a
  parliamentary stalemate blocking legislative action

Nepal
  unicameral Constituent Assembly (601 seats; 240 seats decided
  by direct popular vote; 335 seats by proportional representation; 26
  appointed by the Cabinet (Council of Ministers))
  note: KOIRALA called the first sitting of the Constituent Assembly
  on 28 May 2008
  elections: last held 10 April 2008 (next to be held NA)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  CPN-M 220, NC 110, CPN-UML 103, Madhesi Jana Adhikar Forum 52, Terai
  Madhesi Democratic Party/Nepal Sadbhawana Party 29, other smaller
  parties 61; note - 26 seats to be filled by the new Cabinet

Netherlands
  bicameral States General or Staten Generaal consists of
  the First Chamber or Eerste Kamer (75 seats; members indirectly
  elected by the country's 12 provincial councils to serve four-year
  terms) and the Second Chamber or Tweede Kamer (150 seats; members
  directly elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
  elections: First Chamber - last held 29 May 2007 (next to be held in
  May 2011); Second Chamber - last held 22 November 2006 (next to be
  held by early 2011)
  election results: First Chamber - percent of vote by party - NA%;
  seats by party - CDA 21, PvdA 14, VVD 14, Socialist Party 11,
  Christian Union 4, Green Left Party 4, D66 2, other 5; Second
  Chamber - percent of vote by party - CDA 26.5%, PvdA 21.2%,
  Socialist Party 16.6%, VVD 14.6%, Party for Freedom 5.9%, Green
  Party 4.6%, Christian Union 4.0%, other 6.6%; seats by party - CDA
  41, PvdA 33, Socialist Party 25, VVD 22, Party for Freedom 9, Green
  Party 7, Christian Union 6, other 7

Netherlands Antilles
  unicameral States or Staten (22 seats, Curacao
  14, Bonaire 3, St. Maarten 3, St. Eustatius 1, Saba 1; members are
  elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held 27 January 2006 (next to be held in 2010)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  PAR 5, MAN 3, FOL 2, Forsa Korsou 2, National Alliance 2, PNP 2, UPB
  2, DP-St. E 1, DP-St. M 1, PDB 1, WIPM 1
  note: the government is a coalition of several parties

New Caledonia
  unicameral Territorial Congress or Congres du
  territoire (54 seats; members belong to the three Provincial
  Assemblies or Assemblees Provinciales elected by popular vote to
  serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held 9 May 2004 (next to be held in 2009)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  RPCR-UMP 16, AE 16, UNI-FLNKS 8, UC 7, FN 4, others 3
  note: New Caledonia currently holds one seat in the French Senate;
  by 2010, New Caledonia will gain a second seat in the French Senate;
  elections last held 24 September 2001 (next to be held not later
  than September 2007); results - percent of vote by party - NA; seats
  by party - UMP 1; New Caledonia also elects two seats to the French
  National Assembly; elections last held 10 and 17 June 2007 (next to
  be held on June 2012); results - percent of vote by party - NA;
  seats by party - UMP 2

New Zealand
  unicameral House of Representatives - commonly called
  Parliament (usually 120 seats; 69 members elected by popular vote in
  single-member constituencies including 7 Maori constituencies, and
  51 proportional seats chosen from party lists; to serve three-year
  terms)
  elections: last held 8 November 2008 (next to be held in 2011)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NP 45.5%, NZLP 33.8%,
  Green Party 6.4%, ACT New Zealand 3.7%, Maori 2.2%, Progressive
  0.9%, UF 0.9%, other 6.6%; seats by party - NP 59, NZLP 43, Green
  Party 8, ACT New Zealand 5, Maori 5, Progressive 1, UF 1
  note: results of 2008 election saw the total number of seats
  increase to 122

Nicaragua
  unicameral National Assembly or Asamblea Nacional (92
  seats; 90 members are elected by proportional representation and
  party lists to serve five-year terms; 1 seat for the previous
  president, 1 seat for the runner-up in previous presidential
  election)
  elections: last held 5 November 2006 (next to be held by November
  2011)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  FSLN 38, PLC 25, ALN 23 (22 plus one for presidential candidate
  Eduardo MONTEALEGRE, runner-up in the 2006 presidential election),
  MRS 5, APRE 1 (outgoing President Enrique BOLANOS)

Niger
  unicameral National Assembly (113 seats; members elected by
  popular vote to serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held 4 December 2004 (next to be held in December
  2009)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  MNSD 47, PNDS 25, CDS 22, RSD 7, RDP 6, ANDP 5, PSDN 1

Nigeria
  bicameral National Assembly consists of the Senate (109
  seats, 3 from each state plus 1 from Abuja; members elected by
  popular vote to serve four-year terms) and House of Representatives
  (360 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
  elections: Senate - last held 21 April 2007 (next to be held in
  April 2011); House of Representatives - last held 21 April 2007
  (next to be held in April 2011)
  election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - PDP 53.7%,
  ANPP 27.9%, AD 9.7%, other 8.7%; seats by party - PDP 76, ANPP 27,
  AD 6; House of Representatives - percent of vote by party - PDP
  54.5%, ANPP 27.4%, AD 8.8%, UNPP 2.8%, NPD 1.9%, APGA 1.6%, PRP
  0.8%; seats by party - PDP 76, ANPP 27, AD 6, UNPP 2, APGA 2, NPD 1,
  PRP 1, vacant 1

Niue
  unicameral Legislative Assembly (20 seats; members elected by
  popular vote to serve three-year terms; six elected from a common
  roll and 14 are village representatives)
  elections: last held 7 June 2008 (next to be held in 2011)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - 20
  independents

Norfolk Island
  unicameral Legislative Assembly (9 seats; members
  elected by electors who have nine equal votes each but only four
  votes can be given to any one candidate; to serve three-year terms)
  elections: last held 21 March 2007 (next to be held by 28 March 2010)
  election results: seats - independents 9 (note - no political
  parties)

Northern Mariana Islands
  bicameral Legislature consists of the
  Senate (9 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
  four-year staggered terms) and the House of Representatives (20
  seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve two-year terms)
  elections: Senate - last held 3 November 2007 (next to be held in
  November 2009); House of Representatives - last held 3 November 2007
  (next to be held in November 2009)
  election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
  party - Covenant Party 3, Republican Party 3, Democratic Party 1,
  independents 2; House of Representatives - percent of vote by party
  - NA; seats by party - Republican Party 12, Covenant Party 4,
  Democratic Party 1, independents 3
  note: the Northern Mariana Islands does not have a nonvoting
  delegate in the US Congress; instead, it has an elected official or
  "resident representative" in Washington, DC; seats by party -
  Republican Party 1 (Pedro A. TENORIO)

Norway
  modified unicameral Parliament or Storting (169 seats;
  members are elected by popular vote by proportional representation
  to serve four-year terms); note - in 2009 the number of seats will
  change to 165
  elections: last held 12 September 2005 (next to be held in September
  2009)
  election results: percent of vote by party - Labor Party 32.7%,
  Progress Party 22.1%, Conservative Party 14.1%, Socialist Left Party
  8.8%, Christian People's Party 6.8%, Center Party 6.5%, Liberal
  Party 5.9%, other 3.1%; seats by party - Labor Party 61, Progress
  Party 38, Conservative Party 23, Socialist Left Party 15, Christian
  People's Party 11, Center Party 11, Liberal Party 10
  note: for certain purposes, the parliament divides itself into two
  chambers and elects one-fourth of its membership in the Lagting and
  three-fourths of its membership in the Odelsting

Oman
  bicameral Majlis Oman consists of Majlis al-Dawla or upper
  chamber (70 seats; members appointed by the monarch; has advisory
  powers only) and Majlis al-Shura or lower chamber (84 seats; members
  elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms; body has some
  limited power to propose legislation, but otherwise has only
  advisory powers)
  elections: last held 27 October 2007 (next to be held in 2011)
  election results: new candidates won 46 seats and 38 members of the
  outgoing Majlis kept their positions; none of the 20 female
  candidates were elected

Pakistan
  bicameral parliament or Majlis-e-Shoora consists of the
  Senate (100 seats; members indirectly elected by provincial
  assemblies and the territories' representatives in the National
  Assembly to serve six-year terms; one half are elected every three
  years) and the National Assembly (342 seats; 272 members elected by
  popular vote; 60 seats reserved for women; 10 seats reserved for
  non-Muslims; to serve five-year terms)
  elections: Senate - last held in March 2006 (next to be held in
  March 2009); National Assembly - last held 18 February 2008 (next to
  be held in 2013)
  election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
  party - PML 38, MMA 18, PPPP 10, MQM 6, PML-N 4, PKMAP 3, ANP 2,
  PPP-S 2, BNP-A 1, BNP-M 1, JWP 1, NA 1, PML-F 1, independents 12;
  National Assembly - percent of votes by party - NA; seats by party -
  PPPP 121, PML-N 91, PML 54, MQM 25, ANP 13, MMA 6, PML-F 5, BNP-A 1,
  NPP 1, PPP-S 1, independents 18; note - as a result of the 27 June
  2008 by-election, PML-N gained 3 seats and PPPP gained 2 seats)

Palau
  bicameral National Congress or Olbiil Era Kelulau (OEK)
  consists of the Senate (9 seats; members elected by popular vote on
  a population basis to serve four-year terms) and the House of
  Delegates (16 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve
  four-year terms)
  elections: Senate - last held 2 November 2004 (next to be held in
  November 2008); House of Delegates - last held 2 November 2004 (next
  to be held in November 2008)
  election results: Senate - percent of vote - NA; seats -
  independents 9; House of Delegates - percent of vote - NA; seats -
  independents 16

Panama
  unicameral National Assembly or Asamblea Nacional (78 seats;
  members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms); note
  - in 2009, the number of seats will change to 71
  elections: last held 2 May 2004 (next to be held 3 May 2009)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  PRD 41, PA 17, PS 9, MOLIRENA 4, CD 3, PLN 3, PP 1
  note: legislators from outlying rural districts are chosen on a
  plurality basis while districts located in more populous towns and
  cities elect multiple legislators by means of a proportion-based
  formula

Papua New Guinea
  unicameral National Parliament (109 seats, 89
  filled from open electorates and 20 from provinces and national
  capital district; members elected by popular vote to serve five-year
  terms); constitution allows up to 126 seats
  elections: last held from 30 June to 10 July 2007; next to be held
  in June 2012
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  National Alliance 27, PNGP 8, PAP 6, URP 6, PANGU 5, PDM 5,
  independents 19, others 33; note - election to 1 seat was nullified
  note: 15 other parties won 4 or fewer seats; association with
  political parties is fluid

Paraguay
  bicameral Congress or Congreso consists of the Chamber of
  Senators or Camara de Senadores (45 seats; members are elected by
  popular vote to serve five-year terms) and the Chamber of Deputies
  or Camara de Diputados (80 seats; members are elected by popular
  vote to serve five-year terms)
  elections: Chamber of Senators - last held 20 April 2008 (next to be
  held in April 2013); Chamber of Deputies - last held 20 April 2008
  (next to be held in April 2013)
  election results: Chamber of Senators - percent of vote by party -
  NA; seats by party - ANR 15, PLRA 14, UNACE 9, PPQ 4, other 3;
  Chamber of Deputies - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party
  - ANR 30, PLRA 27, UNACE 15, PPQ 3, APC 2, other 3

Peru
  unicameral Congress of the Republic of Peru or Congreso de la
  Republica del Peru (120 seats; members are elected by popular vote
  to serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held 9 April 2006 (next to be held in April 2011)
  election results: percent of vote by party - UPP 21.2%, PAP 20.6%,
  UN 15.3%, AF 13.1%, FC 7.1%, PP 4.1%, RN 4.0%, other 14.6%; seats by
  party - UPP 45, PAP 36, UN 17, AF 13, FC 5, PP 2, RN 2

Philippines
  bicameral Congress or Kongreso consists of the Senate or
  Senado (24 seats - one-half elected every three years; members
  elected at large by popular vote to serve six-year terms) and the
  House of Representatives or Kapulungan Ng Mga Kinatawan (as a result
  of May 2007 election it has 239 seats including 218 members
  representing districts and 21 sectoral party-list members
  representing special minorities elected on the basis of 1 seat for
  every 2% of the total vote but limited to 3 seats; members elected
  by popular vote to serve three-year terms; note - the Constitution
  prohibits the House of Representatives from having more than 250
  members)
  elections: Senate - last held on 14 May 2007 (next to be held in May
  2010); House of Representatives - elections last held on 14 May 2007
  (next to be held in May 2010)
  election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
  party - Lakas-Kampi 4, LP 4, NPC 3, Nacionalista 2, independents 4,
  others 6; note - there are 23 rather than 24 sitting senators
  because one senator was elected mayor of Manila; House of
  Representatives - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  Lakas 86, Kampi 46, NPC 29, LP 21, Party-list 21, others 36

Pitcairn Islands
  unicameral Island Council (10 seats; 5 members
  elected by popular vote, 1 nominated by the 5 elected members, 2
  appointed by the governor including 1 seat for the Island Secretary,
  the Island Mayor, and a commissioner liaising between the governor
  and council; elected members serve one-year terms)
  elections: last held 24 December 2006 (next to be held in December
  2007)
  election results: percent of vote - NA; seats - all independents

Poland
  bicameral legislature consists of an upper house, the Senate
  or Senat (100 seats; members are elected by a majority vote on a
  provincial basis to serve four-year terms), and a lower house, the
  Sejm (460 seats; members are elected under a complex system of
  proportional representation to serve four-year terms); the
  designation of National Assembly or Zgromadzenie Narodowe is only
  used on those rare occasions when the two houses meet jointly
  elections: Senate - last held 21 October 2007 (next to be held by
  October 2011); Sejm elections last held 21 October 2007 (next to be
  held by October 2011)
  election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
  party - PO 60, PiS 39, independents 1; Sejm - percent of vote by
  party - PO 41.5%, PiS 32.1%, LiD 13.2%, PSL 8.9%, other 4.3%; seats
  by party - PO 209, PiS 166, LiD 53, PSL 31, German minorities 1;
  note - seats by party as of February 2008 - PO 209, PiS 159, LiD 53,
  PSL 31, German minorities 1, nonaffiliated 7
  note: one seat is assigned to ethnic minority parties in the Sejm
  only

Portugal
  unicameral Assembly of the Republic or Assembleia da
  Republica (230 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
  four-year terms)
  elections: last held 20 February 2005 (next to be held in Fall 2009)
  election results: percent of vote by party - PS 45.1%, PSD 28.7%,
  CDU 7.6%, CDS/PP 7.3%, BE 6.4%, other 4.9%; seats by party - PS 121,
  PSD 75, CDU 14, CDS/PP 12, BE 8

Puerto Rico
  bicameral Legislative Assembly consists of the Senate
  (at least 27 seats; members are directly elected by popular vote to
  serve four-year terms) and the House of Representatives (51 seats;
  members are elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
  elections: Senate - last held 4 November 2008 (next to be held
  November 2012); House of Representatives - last held 4 November 2008
  (next to be held in November 2012)
  election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
  party - PNP 22, PPD 5; House of Representatives - percent of vote by
  party - NA; seats by party - NA
  note: Puerto Rico elects, by popular vote, a resident commissioner
  to serve a four-year term as a nonvoting representative in the US
  House of Representatives; aside from not voting on the House floor,
  he enjoys all the rights of a member of Congress; elections last
  held 4 November 2008 (next to be held in November 2012); results -
  percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - PNP 1

Qatar
  unicameral Advisory Council or Majlis al-Shura (35 seats;
  members appointed)
  note: no legislative elections have been held since 1970 when there
  were partial elections to the body; Council members have had their
  terms extended every year since the new constitution came into force
  on 9 June 2005; the constitution provides for a new 45-member
  Advisory Council or Majlis al-Shura; the public would elect
  two-thirds of the Majlis al-Shura; the Amir would appoint the
  remaining members; preparations are underway to conduct elections to
  the Majlis al-Shura

Romania
  bicameral Parliament or Parlament consists of the Senate or
  Senat (137 seats; members are elected by popular vote on a
  proportional representation basis to serve four-year terms) and the
  Chamber of Deputies or Camera Deputatilor (334 seats; members are
  elected by popular vote on a proportional representation basis to
  serve four-year terms)
  elections: Senate - last held 30 November 2008 (next expected to be
  held in November 2012); Chamber of Deputies - last held 30 November
  2008 (next expected to be held November 2012)
  election results: Senate - percent of vote by alliance/party -
  PSD-PC 34.2%, PDL 33.6%, PNL 18.7%, UDMR 6.4%, other 7.1%; seats by
  alliance/party - PSD-PC 49, PDL 51, PNL 28, UDMR 9; Chamber of
  Deputies - percent of vote by alliance/party - PSD-PC 33.1%, PDL
  32.4%, PNL 18.6%, UDMR 6.2%, ethnic minorities 3.6%, other 6.1%;
  seats by alliance/party - PSD-PC 114, PDL 115, PNL 65, UDMR 22,
  ethnic minorities 18

Russia
  bicameral Federal Assembly or Federalnoye Sobraniye consists
  of an upper house, the Federation Council or Sovet Federatsii (168
  seats; as of July 2000, members appointed by the top executive and
  legislative officials in each of the 84 federal administrative units
  - oblasts, krays, republics, autonomous okrugs and oblasts, and the
  federal cities of Moscow and Saint Petersburg; to serve four-year
  terms) and a lower house, the State Duma or Gosudarstvennaya Duma
  (450 seats; as of 2007, all members elected by proportional
  representation from party lists winning at least 7% of the vote;
  members elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
  elections: State Duma - last held 2 December 2007 (next to be held
  in December 2011)
  election results: State Duma - United Russia 64.3%, CPRF 11.5%, LDPR
  8.1%, Just Russia 7.7%, other 8.4%; total seats by party - United
  Russia 315, CPRF 57, LDPR 40, Just Russia 38

Rwanda
  bicameral Parliament consists of Senate (26 seats; 12 members
  elected by local councils, 8 appointed by the president, 4 by the
  Political Organizations Forum, 2 represent institutions of higher
  learning; to serve eight-year terms) and Chamber of Deputies (80
  seats; 53 members elected by popular vote, 24 women elected by local
  bodies, 3 selected by youth and disability organizations; to serve
  five-year terms)
  elections: Senate - members appointed as part of the transitional
  government (next to be held in 2011); Chamber of Deputies - last
  held 15 September 2008 (next to be held September 2013)
  election results: percent of vote by party - RPF 78.8%, PSD 13.1%,
  PL 7.5%; seats by party - RPF 42, PSD 7, PL 4, additional 27 members
  indirectly elected

Saint Barthelemy
  unicameral Territorial Council (19 seats; members
  are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held 1 and 8 July 2007 (next to be held July 2012)
  election results: percent of vote by party - SBA 72.2%,
  Action-Equilibre-Transparence 9.9%, Ensemble pour Saint-Barthelemy
  7.9%, Tous Unis pour Saint-Barthelemy 9.9%; seats by party - SBA 16,
  Action-Equilibre-Transparence 1, Ensemble pour Saint-Barthelemy 1,
  Tous Unis pour Saint-Barthelemy 1

Saint Helena
  unicameral Legislative Council (16 seats, including the
  speaker, three ex officio and 12 elected members; members are
  elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held 31 August 2005 (next to be held in 2009)
  election results: percent of vote - NA; seats - independents 12

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  unicameral National Assembly (14 seats, 3
  appointed and 11 popularly elected from single-member
  constituencies; members serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held 25 October 2004 (next to be held by 2009)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  SKNLP 7, CCM 2, NRP 1, PAM 1

Saint Lucia
  bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (11 seats;
  six members appointed on the advice of the prime minister, three on
  the advice of the leader of the opposition, and two after
  consultation with religious, economic, and social groups) and the
  House of Assembly (17 seats; members are elected by popular vote to
  serve five-year terms)
  elections: House of Assembly - last held 11 December 2006 (next to
  be held in December 2011)
  election results: House of Assembly - percent of vote by party - UWP
  50%, SLP 46.9%, other 3.1%; seats by party - UWP 11, SLP 6

Saint Martin
  unicameral Territorial Council (23 seats; members are
  elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held 1 and 8 July 2007 (next to be held July 2012)
  election results: percent of seats by party - UPP 49%, RRR 42.2%,
  Reussir Saint-Martin 8.9%; seats by party - UPP 16, RRR 6, Reussir
  Saint-Martin 1

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  unicameral Territorial Council or Conseil
  Territorial (19 seats, 15 from Saint Pierre and four from Miquelon;
  members are elected by popular vote to serve six-year terms)
  elections: elections last held 19 and 26 in March 2006 (next to be
  held in March 2012)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - AD
  16, Cap sur l'Avenir 2, SPM 2000/AM 1
  note: Saint Pierre and Miquelon elect one seat to the French Senate;
  elections last held 26 September 2004 (next to be held in September
  2013); results - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - UMP
  1; Saint Pierre and Miquelon also elects one seat to the French
  National Assembly; elections last held, first round - 10 June 2007,
  second round - 17 June 2007 (next to be held in 2012); results -
  percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - Left Radical Party 1

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  unicameral House of Assembly (21
  seats, 15 elected representatives and six appointed senators;
  representatives are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held 7 December 2005 (next to be held in 2010)
  election results: percent of vote by party - ULP 55.3%, NDP 44.7%;
  seats by party - ULP 12, NDP 3

Samoa
  unicameral Legislative Assembly or Fono (49 seats, 47 elected
  by voters affiliated with traditional village-based electoral
  districts, 2 elected by independent, mostly non-Samoan or
  part-Samoan, voters who cannot, (or choose not to) establish a
  village affiliation; only chiefs (matai) may stand for election to
  the Fono from the 47 village-based electorates; members serve
  five-year terms)
  elections: election last held 31 March 2006 (next election to be
  held not later than March 2011)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  HRPP 35, SDUP 10, independents 4

San Marino
  unicameral Grand and General Council or Consiglio Grande
  e Generale (60 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
  five-year terms)
  elections: last held 9 November 2008 (next to be held by June 2013)
  election results: percent of vote by party - Pact for San Marino
  coalition 54.2%: PDCS 31.9%, AP 11.5%, Freedom List 6.3%, San Marino
  Union of Moderates 4.2%; Reforms and Freedom coalition 45.8%; Party
  of Socialists and Democrats 32%, United Left 8.6%, Democrats of the
  Center 4.9%; seats by party - Pact for San Marino coalition 35; PDCS
  22, AP 7, the Freedom List 4, San Marino Union of Moderates 2;
  Reforms and Freedm coalition 25: Party of Socialists and Democrats
  18, United Left 5, Democrats of the Center 2

Sao Tome and Principe
  unicameral National Assembly or Assembleia
  Nacional (55 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
  four-year terms)
  elections: last held on 26 March 2006 (next to be held in March 2010)
  election results: percent of vote by party - MDFM-PCD 37.2%, MLSTP
  28.9%, ADI 20.0%, NR 4.7%, others 9.2%; seats by party - MDFM-PCD
  23, MLSTP 19, ADI 12, NR 1

Saudi Arabia
  Consultative Council or Majlis al-Shura (150 members
  and a chairman appointed by the monarch for four-year terms); note -
  though the Council of Ministers announced in October 2003 its intent
  to introduce elections for half of the members of local and
  provincial assemblies and a third of the members of the national
  Consultative Council or Majlis al-Shura, incrementally over a period
  of four to five years, to date no such elections have been held or
  announced

Senegal
  bicameral Parliament consisting of the National Assembly or
  Assemblee Nationale (150 seats; 90 members elected by direct popular
  vote with the remaining members elected by proportional
  representation from party lists to serve five-year terms) and the
  Senate reinstituted in 2007 (100 seats; 35 indirectly elected with
  the remaining 65 members to be appointed by the president)
  elections: National Assembly - last held on 3 June 2007 (next to be
  held 2012); note - the National Assembly in December 2005 voted to
  postpone legislative elections originally scheduled for 2006;
  legislative elections were first rescheduled to coincide with the 25
  February 2007 presidential elections and later rescheduled for 3
  June 2007; the June election was boycotted by 12 opposition parties,
  including the former ruling Socialist Party, that resulted in a
  record-low, 35-percent voter turnout; Senate - last held 19 August
  2007 (next to be held - NA)
  election results: National Assembly results - percent of vote by
  party - NA; seats by party - SOPI Coalition 131, other 19; Senate
  results - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - PDS 34,
  AJ/PADS 1, 65 appointed by the president

Serbia
  unicameral National Assembly (250 seats; deputies elected by
  direct vote to serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held on 11 May 2008 (next to be held in May 2012)
  election results: percent of vote by party - For a European Serbia
  coalition 38.4%, SRS 29.5%, DSS-NS 11.6%, coalition led by the SPS
  7.6%, LPD 5.2%, other 7.7%; seats by party - For a European Serbia
  102, SRS 78, DSS-NS 30, coalition led by the SPS 20, LDP 13, other
  7; note - the seat allocation for the SNS is uncertain because of an
  ongoing dispute with the SRS

Seychelles
  unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale (34
  seats; 25 members elected by popular vote, 9 allocated on a
  proportional basis to parties winning at least 10% of the vote; to
  serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held 10-12 May 2007 (next to be held in 2012)
  election results: percent of vote by party - SPPF 56.2%, SNP 43.8%;
  seats by party - SPPF 23, SNP 11

Sierra Leone
  unicameral Parliament (124 seats; 112 members elected
  by popular vote, 12 filled by paramount chiefs elected in separate
  elections; to serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held on 11 August 2007 (next to be held in 2012)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  APC 59, SLPP 43, PMDC 10

Singapore
  unicameral Parliament (84 seats; members elected by
  popular vote to serve five-year terms); note - in addition, there
  are up to nine nominated members; up to three losing opposition
  candidates who came closest to winning seats may be appointed as
  "nonconstituency" members
  elections: last held on 6 May 2006 (next to be held by 2011)
  election results: percent of vote by party - PAP 66.6%, WP 16.3%,
  SDA 13%, SDP 4.1%; seats by party - PAP 82, WP 1, SDA 1

Slovakia
  unicameral National Council of the Slovak Republic or
  Narodna Rada Slovenskej Republiky (150 seats; members are elected on
  the basis of proportional representation to serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held 17 June 2006 (next to be held in 2010)
  election results: percent of vote by party - Smer 29.1%, SDKU 18.4%,
  SMK 11.7%, SNS 11.7%, LS-HZDS 8.8%, KDH 8.3%, other 12%; seats by
  party - Smer 50, SDKU 31, SMK 20, SNS 19, LS-HZDS 16, KDH 14

Slovenia
  bicameral Parliament consists of a National Assembly or
  Drzavni Zbor (90 seats; 40 members are directly elected and 50 are
  elected on a proportional basis; note - the number of directly
  elected and proportionally elected seats varies with each election;
  the constitution mandates 1 seat each for Slovenia's Hungarian and
  Italian minorities; members are elected by popular vote to serve
  four-year terms) and the National Council or Drzavni Svet (40 seats;
  members indirectly elected by an electoral college to serve
  five-year terms; note - this is primarily an advisory body with
  limited legislative powers; it may propose laws, ask to review any
  National Assembly decision, and call national referenda)
  elections: National Assembly - last held 21 September 2008 (next to
  be held 8 October 2012)
  election results: percent of vote by party - SD 30.5%, SDS 29.3%,
  ZARES 9.4%, DeSUS 7.5%, SNS 5.5%, SLS+SMS 5.2%, LDS 5.2%, other
  7.4%; seats by party - SD 29, SDS 28, ZARES 9, DeSUS 7, SNS 5,
  SLS+SMS 5, LDS 5, Hungarian minority 1, Italian minority 1

Solomon Islands
  unicameral National Parliament (50 seats; members
  elected from single-member constituencies by popular vote to serve
  four-year terms)
  elections: last held on 5 April 2006 (next to be held in 2010)
  election results: percent of vote by party - National Party 6.9%,
  PAP 6.3%, SIPRA 6.3%, Liberal 5%, Democratic 4.9%, SOCRED 4.3%,
  LAFARI 2.8%, independents 60.3%; seats by party - National Party 4,
  SIPRA 4, Democratic 3, PAP 3, LAFARI 2, Liberal 2, SOCRED 2,
  independents 30

Somalia
  unicameral National Assembly
  note: unicameral Transitional Federal Assembly (TFA) (275 seats; 244
  members appointed by the four major clans (61 for each clan), 31
  seats allocated to smaller clans and subclans)

South Africa
  bicameral Parliament consisting of the National
  Assembly (400 seats; members are elected by popular vote under a
  system of proportional representation to serve five-year terms) and
  the National Council of Provinces (90 seats, 10 members elected by
  each of the nine provincial legislatures for five-year terms; has
  special powers to protect regional interests, including the
  safeguarding of cultural and linguistic traditions among ethnic
  minorities); note - following the implementation of the new
  constitution on 4 February 1997, the former Senate was disbanded and
  replaced by the National Council of Provinces with essentially no
  change in membership and party affiliations, although the new
  institution's responsibilities have been changed somewhat by the new
  constitution
  elections: National Assembly and National Council of Provinces -
  last held on 14 April 2004 (next to be held in 2009)
  election results: National Assembly - percent of vote by party - ANC
  69.7%, DA 12.4%, IFP 7%, UDM 2.3%, NNP 1.7%, ACDP 1.6%, other 5.3%;
  seats by party - ANC 279, DA 50, IFP 28, UDM 9, NNP 7, ACDP 6, other
  21; National Council of Provinces - percent of vote by party - NA;
  seats by party - NA

Spain
  bicameral; General Courts or National Assembly or Las Cortes
  Generales consists of the Senate or Senado (264 seats as of 2008;
  208 members directly elected by popular vote and the other 56 - as
  of 2008 - appointed by the regional legislatures; to serve four-year
  terms) and the Congress of Deputies or Congreso de los Diputados
  (350 seats; each of the 50 electoral provinces fills a minimum of
  two seats and the North African enclaves of Ceuta and Melilla fill
  one seat each with members serving a four-year term; the other 248
  members are determined by proportional representation based on
  popular vote on block lists who serve four-year terms)
  elections: Senate - last held on 9 March 2008 (next to be held in
  March 2012); Congress of Deputies - last held on 9 March 2008 (next
  to be held in March 2012)
  election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
  party - PP 101, PSOE 88, Entesa Catalona de Progress 12, CiU 4, PNV
  2, CC 1, members appointed by regional legislatures 56; Congress of
  Deputies - percent of vote by party - PSOE 43.6%, PP 40.1%, CiU
  3.1%, PNV 1.2%, ERC 1.2%, other 10.8%; seats by party - PSOE 169, PP
  154, CiU 10, PNV 6, ERC 3, other 8

Sri Lanka
  unicameral Parliament (225 seats; members elected by
  popular vote on the basis of an open-list, proportional
  representation system by electoral district to serve six-year terms)
  elections: last held on 2 April 2004 (next to be held by 2010)
  election results: percent of vote by party or electoral alliance -
  SLFP and JVP (no longer in formal UPFA alliance) 45.6%, UNP 37.8%,
  TNA 6.8%, JHU 6%, SLMC 2%, UPF 0.5%, EPDP 0.3%, other 1%; seats by
  party - UNP 68, SLFP 57, JVP 39, TNA 22, CWC 8, JHU 7, SLMC 6, SLMC
  dissidents 4, Communist Party 2, JHU dissidents 2, LSSP 2, MEP 2,
  NUA 2, UPF 2, EPDP 1, UNP dissident 1

Sudan
  bicameral National Legislature consists of a Council of States
  (50 seats; members indirectly elected by state legislatures to serve
  six-year terms) and a National Assembly (450 seats; members
  presently appointed, but in the future 75% of members to be directly
  elected and 25% elected in special or indirect elections; to serve
  six-year terms)
  elections: last held 13-22 December 2000 (next to be held 2009)
  election results: NCP 355, others 5; note - replaced by appointments
  under the 2005 Comprehensive Peace Agreement

Suriname
  unicameral National Assembly or Nationale Assemblee (51
  seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held on 25 May 2005 (next to be held in 2010)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NF 39.7%, NDP 22.2%,
  VVV 13.8%, A-Com 7.2%, A-1 5.9%, other 11.2%; seats by party - NF
  23, NDP 15, VVV 5, A-Com 5, A-1 3

Swaziland
  bicameral Parliament or Libandla consists of the Senate
  (30 seats; 10 members appointed by the House of Assembly and 20
  appointed by the monarch; to serve five-year terms) and the House of
  Assembly (65 seats; 10 members appointed by the monarch and 55
  elected by popular vote; to serve five-year terms)
  elections: House of Assembly - last held 19 September 2008 (next to
  be held in 2013)
  election results: House of Assembly - balloting is done on a
  nonparty basis; candidates for election are nominated by the local
  council of each constituency and for each constituency the three
  candidates with the most votes in the first round of voting are
  narrowed to a single winner by a second round

Sweden
  unicameral Parliament or Riksdag (349 seats; members are
  elected by popular vote on a proportional representation basis to
  serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held on 17 September 2006 (next to be held in
  September 2010)
  election results: percent of vote by party - Social Democrats 37.2%,
  Moderates 27.8%, Center Party 8.3%, Liberal People's Party 8.0%,
  Christian Democrats 6.9%, Left Party 6.3%, Greens 5.4%; seats by
  party - Social Democrats 130, Moderates 97, Center Party 29, Liberal
  People's Party 28, Christian Democrats 24, Left Party 22, Greens 19

Switzerland
  bicameral Federal Assembly or Bundesversammlung (in
  German), Assemblee Federale (in French), Assemblea Federale (in
  Italian) consists of the Council of States or Standerat (in German),
  Conseil des Etats (in French), Consiglio degli Stati (in Italian)
  (46 seats; membership consists of 2 representatives from each canton
  and 1 from each half canton; to serve four-year terms) and the
  National Council or Nationalrat (in German), Conseil National (in
  French), Consiglio Nazionale (in Italian) (200 seats; members are
  elected by popular vote on the basis of proportional representation
  to serve four-year terms)
  elections: Council of States - last held in most cantons on 19
  October 2003 (each canton determines when the next election will be
  held); National Council - last held on 21 October 2007 (next to be
  held in October 2011)
  election results: Council of States - percent of vote by party - NA;
  seats by party - CVP 15, FDP 14, SVP 8, SPS 6, other 3; National
  Council - percent of vote by party - SVP 29%, SPS 19.5%, FDP 15.6%,
  CVP 14.6%, Greens 9.6%, other 11.7%; seats by party - SVP 62, SPS
  43, FDP 31, CVP 31, Green Party 20, other small parties 13; note -
  seating for the Council of States as of December 2007 is CVP 16, FDP
  12, SVP 7, SPS 9, other 2

Syria
  unicameral People's Council or Majlis al-Shaab (250 seats;
  members elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held on 22-23 April 2007 (next to be held in 2011)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  NPF 172, independents 78

Taiwan
  unicameral Legislative Yuan (113 seats - 73 district members
  elected by popular vote, 34 at-large members elected on basis of
  proportion of islandwide votes received by participating political
  parties, 6 elected by popular vote among aboriginal populations; to
  serve four-year terms); parties must receive 5% of vote to qualify
  for at-large seats
  elections: Legislative Yuan - last held 12 January 2008 (next to be
  held in January 2012)
  election results: Legislative Yuan - percent of vote by party - KMT
  53.5%, DPP 38.2%, NPSU 2.4%, PFP 0.3%, others 1.6%, independents 4%;
  seats by party - KMT 81, DPP 27, NPSU 3, PFP 1, independent 1

Tajikistan
  bicameral Supreme Assembly or Majlisi Oli consists of the
  National Assembly (upper chamber) or Majlisi Milliy (34 seats; 25
  members selected by local deputies, 8 appointed by the president; 1
  seat reserved for the former president; to serve five-year terms)
  and the Assembly of Representatives (lower chamber) or Majlisi
  Namoyandagon (63 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
  five-year terms)
  elections: National Assembly - last held 25 March 2005 (next to be
  held in February 2010); Assembly of Representatives 27 February and
  13 March 2005 (next to be held in February 2010)
  election results: National Assembly - percent of vote by party - NA;
  seats by party - PDPT 29, CPT 2, independents 3; Assembly of
  Representatives - percent of vote by party - PDPT 74.9%, CPT 13.6%,
  Islamic Revival Party 8.9%, other 2.5%; seats by party - PDPT 51,
  CPT 5, Islamic Revival Party 2, independents 5

Tanzania
  unicameral National Assembly or Bunge (274 seats; 232
  members elected by popular vote, 37 allocated to women nominated by
  the president, 5 to members of the Zanzibar House of
  Representatives; to serve five-year terms); note - in addition to
  enacting laws that apply to the entire United Republic of Tanzania,
  the Assembly enacts laws that apply only to the mainland; Zanzibar
  has its own House of Representatives to make laws especially for
  Zanzibar (the Zanzibar House of Representatives has 50 seats elected
  by universal suffrage to serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held 14 December 2005 (next to be held in December
  2010)
  election results: National Assembly - percent of vote by party - NA;
  seats by party - CCM 206, CUF 19, CHADEMA 5, other 2, women
  appointed by the president 37, Zanzibar representatives 5 Zanzibar
  House of Representatives - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
  party - CCM 30, CUF 19; 1 seat was nullified with a rerun to take
  place soon

Thailand
  bicameral National Assembly or Rathasapha consisted of the
  Senate or Wuthisapha (150 seats; 76 members elected by popular vote
  representing 76 provinces, 74 appointed by judges and independent
  government bodies; all serve six-year terms) and the House of
  Representatives or Sapha Phuthaen Ratsadon (480 seats; 400 members
  elected from 157 multi-seat constituencies and 80 elected on
  proportional party-list basis of 10 per eight zones or groupings of
  provinces; all serve four-year terms)
  elections: Senate - last held on 2 March 2008 (next to be held in
  March 2014); House of Representatives - last election held on 23
  December 2007 (next to be held in December 2011)
  election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
  party - NA; House of Representatives - percent of vote by party -
  NA; seats by party - PPP 233, DP 164, TNP 34, Motherland 24, Middle
  Way 11, Unity 9, Royalist People's 5
  note: 74 senators were appointed on 19 February 2008 by a
  seven-member committee headed by the chief of the Constitutional
  Court; 76 senators were elected on 2 March 2008; elections to the
  Senate are non-partisan; registered political party members are
  disqualified from being senators

Timor-Leste
  unicameral National Parliament (number of seats can vary
  from 52 to 65; members elected by popular vote to serve five-year
  terms)
  elections: last held on 30 June 2007 (next elections due by June
  2012)
  election results: percent of vote by party - FRETILIN 29%, CNRT
  24.1%, ASDT-PSD 15.8%, PD 11.3%, PUN 4.5%, KOTA-PPT (Democratic
  Alliance) 3.2%, UNTERDIM 3.2%, others 8.9%; seats by party -
  FRETILIN 21, CNRT 18, ASDT-PSD 11, PD 8, PUN 3, KOTA-PPT 2, UNDERTIM
  2

Togo
  unicameral National Assembly (81 seats; members are elected by
  popular vote to serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held on 14 October 2007 (next to be held in 2012)
  election results: percent of vote by party - RPT 39.4%, UFC 37.0%,
  CAR 8.2%, independents 2.5%, other 12.9%; seats by party - RPT 50,
  UFC 27, CAR 4

Tokelau
  unicameral General Fono (20 seats; based upon proportional
  representation from the three islands elected by popular vote to
  serve three-year terms; Atafu has seven seats, Fakaofo has seven
  seats, Nukunonu has six seats); note - the Tokelau Amendment Act of
  1996 confers limited legislative power on the General Fono
  elections: last held 17-19 January 2008 (next to be held in 2011)
  election results: independents 20

Tonga
  unicameral Legislative Assembly or Fale Alea (32 seats - 14
  reserved for cabinet ministers sitting ex officio, nine for nobles
  selected by the country's 33 nobles, and nine elected by popular
  vote; members serve three-year terms)
  elections: last held on 23-24 April 2008 (next to be held in 2011)
  election results: Peoples Representatives: percent of vote -
  independents 54%, THRDM 28%, PDP 14%; seats - THRDM 4, independents
  3, PDP 2

Trinidad and Tobago
  bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (31
  seats; 16 members appointed by the ruling party, nine by the
  President, six by the opposition party to serve a maximum term of
  five years) and the House of Representatives (41 seats; members are
  elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
  elections: House of Representatives - last held on 5 November 2007
  (next to be held in 2012)
  election results: House of Representatives - percent of vote - PNM
  46%, UNC 29.7%; seats by party - PNM 26, UNC 15
  note: Tobago has a unicameral House of Assembly with 12 members
  serving four-year terms; last election held in January 2005; seats
  by party - PNM 11, DAC 1

Tunisia
  bicameral system consists of the Chamber of Deputies or
  Majlis al-Nuwaab (189 seats; members elected by popular vote to
  serve five-year terms) and the Chamber of Advisors (126 seats; 85
  members elected by municipal counselors, deputies, mayors, and
  professional associations and trade unions; 41 members are
  presidential appointees; members serve six-year terms)
  elections: Chamber of Deputies - last held on 24 October 2004 (next
  to be held in October 2009); Chamber of Advisors - last held on 3
  July 2005 (next to be held in July 2011)
  election results: Chamber of Deputies - percent of vote by party -
  NA; seats by party - RCD 152, MDS 14, PUP 11, UDU 7, Al-Tajdid 3,
  PSL 2; Chamber of Advisors - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
  party - RCD 71 (14 trade union seats vacant (due to boycott))

Turkey
  unicameral Grand National Assembly of Turkey or Turkiye Buyuk
  Millet Meclisi (550 seats; members are elected by popular vote to
  serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held on 22 July 2007 (next to be held on November
  2012)
  election results: percent of vote by party - AKP 46.7%, CHP 20.8%,
  MHP 14.3%, independents 5.2%, and other 13.0%; seats by party - AKP
  341, CHP 112, MHP 71, independents 26; note - seats by party as of
  17 December 2007 - AKP 340, CHP 87, MHP 70, DTP 20, DSP 13,
  independents 6, other 12, vacant 2 (DTP entered parliament as
  independents; DSP entered parliament on CHP's party list); only
  parties surpassing the 10% threshold are entitled to parliamentary
  seats

Turkmenistan
  two parliamentary bodies, a People's Council or Halk
  Maslahaty (supreme legislative body of about 2,500 delegates, some
  elected by popular vote and some appointed; meets at least yearly)
  and a National Assembly or Mejlis (50 seats; members are elected by
  popular vote to serve five-year terms)
  elections: People's Council - last held in April 2003 (next to be
  held in December 2008); National Assembly - last held 19 December
  2004 (next to be held in December 2008)
  election results: People's Council - percent of vote by party - DPT
  100%; seats by party - DPT 2,507; National Assembly - percent of
  vote by party - DPT 100%; seats by party - DPT 50; note - all
  elected officials are members of the Democratic Party of
  Turkmenistan and are preapproved by the president
  note: in late 2003, a law was adopted reducing the powers of the
  National Assembly and making the People's Council the supreme
  legislative organ; the People's Council can now legally dissolve the
  National Assembly, and the president is now able to participate in
  the National Assembly as its supreme leader; the National Assembly
  can no longer adopt or amend the constitution or announce
  referendums or its elections; since the president is both the
  chairman of the People's Council and the supreme leader of the
  National Assembly, the 2003 law has the effect of making him the
  sole authority of both the executive and legislative branches of
  government

Turks and Caicos Islands
  unicameral House of Assembly (21 seats of
  which 15 are popularly elected; members serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held 9 February 2007 (next to be held in 2011)
  election results: percent of vote by party - PNP 60%, PDM 40%; seats
  by party - PNP 13, PDM 2

Tuvalu
  unicameral Parliament or Fale I Fono, also called House of
  Assembly (15 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve
  four-year terms)
  elections: last held 3 August 2006 (next to be held in 2010)
  election results: percent of vote - NA; seats - independents 15

Uganda
  unicameral National Assembly (332 seats; 215 members elected
  by popular vote, 104 nominated by legally established special
  interest groups [women 79, army 10, disabled 5, youth 5, labor 5],
  13 ex officio members; to serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held 23 February 2006 (next to be held in 2011)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  NRM 191, FDC 37, UPC 9, DP 8, CP 1, JEEMA 1, independents 36, other
  49

Ukraine
  unicameral Supreme Council or Verkhovna Rada (450 seats;
  members allocated on a proportional basis to those parties that gain
  3% or more of the national electoral vote; to serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held 30 September 2007 (next to be held in 2012)
  election results: percent of vote by party/bloc - Party of Regions
  34.4%, Yuliya Tymoshenko Bloc 30.7%, Our Ukraine-People's Self
  Defense 14.2%, CPU 5.4%, Lytvyn bloc 4%, other parties 11.3%; seats
  by party/bloc - Party of Regions 175, Yuliya Tymoshenko Bloc 156,
  Our Ukraine-People's Self Defense 72, CPU 27, Lytvyn bloc 20

United Arab Emirates
  unicameral Federal National Council (FNC) or
  Majlis al-Ittihad al-Watani (40 seats; 20 members appointed by the
  rulers of the constituent states, 20 members elected to serve
  two-year terms)
  elections: elections for one half of the FNC (the other half remains
  appointed) held in the UAE on 18-20 December 2006; the new electoral
  college - a body of 6,689 Emiratis (including 1,189 women) appointed
  by the rulers of the seven emirates - were the only eligible voters
  and candidates; 456 candidates including 65 women ran for 20
  contested FNC seats; one female from the Emirate of Abu Dhabi won a
  seat
  note: reviews legislation but cannot change or veto

United Kingdom
  bicameral Parliament consists of House of Lords (618
  seats; consisting of approximately 500 life peers, 92 hereditary
  peers, and 26 clergy) and House of Commons (646 seats since 2005
  elections; members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year
  terms unless the House is dissolved earlier)
  elections: House of Lords - no elections (note - in 1999, as
  provided by the House of Lords Act, elections were held in the House
  of Lords to determine the 92 hereditary peers who would remain
  there; elections are held only as vacancies in the hereditary
  peerage arise); House of Commons - last held 5 May 2005 (next to be
  held by May 2010)
  election results: House of Commons - percent of vote by party -
  Labor 35.2%, Conservative 32.3%, Liberal Democrats 22%, other 10.5%;
  seats by party - Labor 355, Conservative 198, Liberal Democrat 62,
  other 31; seats by party in the House of Commons as of 4 June 2008 -
  Labor 351, Conservative 192, Liberal Democrat 63, Scottish National
  Party/Plaid Cymru 9, Democratic Unionist 9, Sinn Fein 5, other 17
  note: in 1998 elections were held for a Northern Ireland Assembly
  (because of unresolved disputes among existing parties, the transfer
  of power from London to Northern Ireland came only at the end of
  1999 and has been suspended four times, the latest occurring in
  October 2002 and lasting until 8 May 2007); in 1999, the UK held the
  first elections for a Scottish Parliament and a Welsh Assembly, the
  most recent of which were held in May 2007

United States
  bicameral Congress consists of the Senate (100 seats,
  2 members are elected from each state by popular vote to serve
  six-year terms; one-third are elected every two years) and the House
  of Representatives (435 seats; members are directly elected by
  popular vote to serve two-year terms)
  elections: Senate - last held 7 November 2006 (next to be held
  November 2008); House of Representatives - last held 7 November 2006
  (next to be held November 2008)
  election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
  party - Democratic Party 49, Republican Party 49, independent 2;
  House of Representatives - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
  party - Democratic Party 233, Republican Party 202

Uruguay
  bicameral General Assembly or Asamblea General consists of
  Chamber of Senators or Camara de Senadores (30 seats; members are
  elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms; vice president has
  one vote in the Senate) and Chamber of Representatives or Camara de
  Representantes (99 seats; members are elected by popular vote to
  serve five-year terms)
  elections: Chamber of Senators - last held 31 October 2004 (next to
  be held October 2009); Chamber of Representatives - last held 31
  October 2004 (next to be held October 2009)
  election results: Chamber of Senators - percent of vote by party -
  NA; seats by party - EP-FA 16, Blanco 11, Colorado Party 3; Chamber
  of Representatives - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  EP-FA 52, Blanco 36, Colorado Party 10, Independent Party 1

Uzbekistan
  bicameral Supreme Assembly or Oliy Majlis consists of an
  upper house or Senate (100 seats; 84 members are elected by regional
  governing councils and 16 appointed by the president; to serve
  five-year terms) and a lower house or Legislative Chamber (120
  seats; members elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held 26 December 2004 and 9 January 2005 (next to be
  held December 2009)
  election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
  party - NA; Legislative Chamber - percent of vote by party - NA;
  seats by party - LDPU 41, NDP 32, Fidokorlar 17, MTP 11, Adolat 9,
  unaffiliated 10
  note: all parties in the Supreme Assembly support President KARIMOV

Vanuatu
  unicameral Parliament (52 seats; members elected by popular
  vote to serve four-year terms)
  elections: last held 2 September 2008 (next to be held 2012)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - VP
  11, NUP 8, UMP 7, VRP 7, PPP 4, GC 2, MPP 1, NA 1, NAG 1, PAP 1,
  Shepherds Alliance 1, VFFP 1, VLP 1, VNP 1, VPRFP 1, and independent
  4; note - political party associations are fluid
  note: the National Council of Chiefs advises on matters of culture
  and language

Venezuela
  unicameral National Assembly or Asamblea Nacional (167
  seats; members elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms;
  three seats reserved for the indigenous peoples of Venezuela)
  elections: last held 4 December 2005 (next to be held in 2010)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  pro-government 167 (MVR 114, PODEMOS 15, PPT 11, indigenous 2, other
  25), opposition 0; total seats by party as of 1 January 2008 -
  pro-government 152 (PSUV 114, PPT 11, indigenous 2, other 25),
  PODEMOS 15

Vietnam
  unicameral National Assembly or Quoc Hoi (500 seats; members
  elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held 20 May 2007 (next to be held in May 2012)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  CPV 450, non-party CPV-approved 42, self-nominated 1; note - 493
  candidates were elected; CPV and non-party CPV-approved delegates
  were members of the Vietnamese Fatherland Front

Virgin Islands
  unicameral Senate (15 seats; members are elected by
  popular vote to serve two-year terms)
  elections: last held 7 November 2006 (next to be held November 2008)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  Democratic Party 8, ICM 4, independent 3
  note: the Virgin Islands elects one non-voting representative to the
  US House of Representatives; election last held 7 November 2006
  (next to be held November 2008)

Wallis and Futuna
  unicameral Territorial Assembly or Assemblee
  Territoriale (20 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
  five-year terms)
  elections: last held 11 March 2002 (next to be held 22 April 2007)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  RPR and affiliates 13, Socialists and affiliates 7
  note: Wallis and Futuna elects one senator to the French Senate and
  one deputy to the French National Assembly; French Senate -
  elections last held 26 September 2004 (next to be held by September
  2010); results - percent of vote by party - NA; seats - RPR (now
  UMP) 1; French National Assembly - elections last held 17 June 2007
  (next to be held by 2012); results - percent of vote by party - NA;
  seats - PS 1

Yemen
  a bicameral legislature consisting of a Shura Council (111
  seats; members appointed by the president) and a House of
  Representatives (301 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve
  six-year terms)
  elections: last held on 27 April 2003 (next to be held in April 2009)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  GPC 228, Islah 47, YSP 7, Nasserite Unionist Party 3, National Arab
  Socialist Ba'th Party 2, independents 14

Zambia
  unicameral National Assembly (158 seats; 150 members are
  elected by popular vote, 8 members are appointed by the president,
  to serve five-year terms)
  elections: last held 28 September 2006 (next to be held in 2011)
  election results: percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  MMD 72, PF 44, UDA 27, ULP 2, NDF 1, independents 2; seats not
  determined 2

Zimbabwe
  bicameral Parliament consists of a Senate (93 seats - 60
  elected by popular vote for a five-year term, 10 provincial
  governors nominated by the president, 16 traditional chiefs elected
  by the Council of Chiefs, 2 held by the president and deputy
  president of the Council of Chiefs, and 5 appointed by the
  president) and a House of Assembly (210 seats - all elected by
  popular vote for five-year terms)
  elections: last held 28 March 2008 (next to be held in 2013)
  election results: Senate - percent of vote by party - MDC 51.6%,
  ZANU-PF 45.8%, other 2.6%; seats by party - MDC 30, ZANU-PF 30;
  House of Assembly - percent of vote by party - MDC 51.3%, ZANU-PF
  45.8%, other 2.9%; seats by party - MDC 109, ZANU-PF 97, other 4

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2102  Life expectancy at birth (years)


Afghanistan
  total population: 44.21 years
  male: 44.04 years
  female: 44.39 years (2008 est.)

Albania
  total population: 77.78 years
  male: 75.12 years
  female: 80.71 years (2008 est.)

Algeria
  total population: 73.77 years
  male: 72.13 years
  female: 75.49 years (2008 est.)

American Samoa
  total population: 73.47 years
  male: 70.55 years
  female: 76.56 years (2008 est.)

Andorra
  total population: 82.67 years
  male: 80.35 years
  female: 85.14 years (2008 est.)

Angola
  total population: 37.92 years
  male: 36.99 years
  female: 38.9 years (2008 est.)

Anguilla
  total population: 80.53 years
  male: 78.01 years
  female: 83.12 years (2008 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  total population: 74.25 years
  male: 72.33 years
  female: 76.26 years (2008 est.)

Argentina
  total population: 76.36 years
  male: 73.11 years
  female: 79.77 years (2008 est.)

Armenia
  total population: 72.4 years
  male: 68.79 years
  female: 76.55 years (2008 est.)

Aruba
  total population: 75.06 years
  male: 72.03 years
  female: 78.14 years (2008 est.)

Australia
  total population: 81.53 years
  male: 79.16 years
  female: 84.02 years (2008 est.)

Austria
  total population: 79.36 years
  male: 76.46 years
  female: 82.41 years (2008 est.)

Azerbaijan
  total population: 66.31 years
  male: 62.2 years
  female: 71 years (2008 est.)

Bahamas, The
  total population: 65.72 years
  male: 62.5 years
  female: 69 years (2008 est.)

Bahrain
  total population: 74.92 years
  male: 72.41 years
  female: 77.5 years (2008 est.)

Bangladesh
  total population: 63.21 years
  male: 63.14 years
  female: 63.28 years (2008 est.)

Barbados
  total population: 73.21 years
  male: 71.2 years
  female: 75.24 years (2008 est.)

Belarus
  total population: 70.34 years
  male: 64.63 years
  female: 76.4 years (2008 est.)

Belgium
  total population: 79.07 years
  male: 75.9 years
  female: 82.38 years (2008 est.)

Belize
  total population: 68.19 years
  male: 66.39 years
  female: 70.08 years (2008 est.)

Benin
  total population: 58.56 years
  male: 57.42 years
  female: 59.76 years (2008 est.)

Bermuda
  total population: 78.3 years
  male: 76.15 years
  female: 80.48 years (2008 est.)

Bhutan
  total population: 65.53 years
  male: 64.75 years
  female: 66.35 years (2008 est.)

Bolivia
  total population: 66.53 years
  male: 63.86 years
  female: 69.33 years (2008 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  total population: 78.33 years
  male: 74.74 years
  female: 82.19 years (2008 est.)

Botswana
  total population: 50.16 years
  male: 51.28 years
  female: 49.02 years (2008 est.)

Brazil
  total population: 71.71 years
  male: 68.15 years
  female: 75.45 years (2008 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  total population: 77.07 years
  male: 75.88 years
  female: 78.32 years (2008 est.)

Brunei
  total population: 75.52 years
  male: 73.32 years
  female: 77.83 years (2008 est.)

Bulgaria
  total population: 72.83 years
  male: 69.22 years
  female: 76.66 years (2008 est.)

Burkina Faso
  total population: 52.55 years
  male: 50.67 years
  female: 54.49 years (2008 est.)

Burma
  total population: 62.94 years
  male: 60.73 years
  female: 65.28 years (2008 est.)

Burundi
  total population: 51.71 years
  male: 50.86 years
  female: 52.6 years (2008 est.)

Cambodia
  total population: 61.69 years
  male: 59.65 years
  female: 63.83 years (2008 est.)

Cameroon
  total population: 53.3 years
  male: 52.54 years
  female: 54.08 years (2008 est.)

Canada
  total population: 81.16 years
  male: 78.65 years
  female: 83.81 years (2008 est.)

Cape Verde
  total population: 71.33 years
  male: 67.99 years
  female: 74.76 years (2008 est.)

Cayman Islands
  total population: 80.32 years
  male: 77.68 years
  female: 83 years (2008 est.)

Central African Republic
  total population: 44.22 years
  male: 44.14 years
  female: 44.29 years (2008 est.)

Chad
  total population: 47.43 years
  male: 46.4 years
  female: 48.5 years (2008 est.)

Chile
  total population: 77.15 years
  male: 73.88 years
  female: 80.59 years (2008 est.)

China
  total population: 73.18 years
  male: 71.37 years
  female: 75.18 years (2008 est.)

Christmas Island
  total population: NA
  male: NA
  female: NA (2008 est.)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  total population: NA
  male: NA
  female: NA (2008 est.)

Colombia
  total population: 72.54 years
  male: 68.71 years
  female: 76.5 years (2008 est.)

Comoros
  total population: 63.1 years
  male: 60.72 years
  female: 65.55 years (2008 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  total population: 53.98 years
  male: 52.22 years
  female: 55.8 years (2008 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  total population: 53.74 years
  male: 52.52 years
  female: 55 years (2008 est.)

Cook Islands
  total population: NA
  male: NA
  female: NA (2008 est.)

Costa Rica
  total population: 77.4 years
  male: 74.79 years
  female: 80.14 years (2008 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  total population: 54.64 years
  male: 53.95 years
  female: 55.35 years (2008 est.)

Croatia
  total population: 75.13 years
  male: 71.49 years
  female: 78.97 years (2008 est.)

Cuba
  total population: 77.27 years
  male: 75.02 years
  female: 79.64 years (2008 est.)

Cyprus
  total population: 78.15 years
  male: 75.75 years
  female: 80.67 years (2008 est.)

Czech Republic
  total population: 76.62 years
  male: 73.34 years
  female: 80.08 years (2008 est.)

Denmark
  total population: 78.13 years
  male: 75.8 years
  female: 80.59 years (2008 est.)

Djibouti
  total population: 43.31 years
  male: 41.89 years
  female: 44.77 years (2008 est.)

Dominica
  total population: 75.33 years
  male: 72.39 years
  female: 78.41 years (2008 est.)

Dominican Republic
  total population: 73.39 years
  male: 71.61 years
  female: 75.24 years (2008 est.)

Ecuador
  total population: 76.81 years
  male: 73.94 years
  female: 79.84 years (2008 est.)

Egypt
  total population: 71.85 years
  male: 69.3 years
  female: 74.52 years (2008 est.)

El Salvador
  total population: 72.06 years
  male: 68.45 years
  female: 75.84 years (2008 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  total population: 61.23 years
  male: 60.36 years
  female: 62.13 years (2008 est.)

Eritrea
  total population: 61.38 years
  male: 59.35 years
  female: 63.46 years (2008 est.)

Estonia
  total population: 72.56 years
  male: 67.16 years
  female: 78.3 years (2008 est.)

Ethiopia
  total population: 54.99 years
  male: 52.54 years
  female: 57.51 years (2008 est.)

European Union
  total population: 77.32 years
  male: 74 years
  female: 80.84 years (2008 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  total population: NA
  male: NA
  female: NA (2008 est.)

Faroe Islands
  total population: 79.29 years
  male: 76.86 years
  female: 81.89 years (2008 est.)

Fiji
  total population: 70.44 years
  male: 67.9 years
  female: 73.1 years (2008 est.)

Finland
  total population: 78.82 years
  male: 75.31 years
  female: 82.46 years (2008 est.)

France
  total population: 80.87 years
  male: 77.68 years
  female: 84.23 years (2008 est.)

French Polynesia
  total population: 76.51 years
  male: 74.07 years
  female: 79.08 years (2008 est.)

Gabon
  total population: 53.52 years
  male: 52.5 years
  female: 54.57 years (2008 est.)

Gambia, The
  total population: 54.95 years
  male: 53.06 years
  female: 56.9 years (2008 est.)

Gaza Strip
  total population: 73.16 years
  male: 71.6 years
  female: 74.83 years (2008 est.)

Georgia
  total population: 76.51 years
  male: 73.21 years
  female: 80.26 years (2008 est.)

Germany
  total population: 79.1 years
  male: 76.11 years
  female: 82.26 years (2008 est.)

Ghana
  total population: 59.49 years
  male: 58.65 years
  female: 60.35 years (2008 est.)

Gibraltar
  total population: 80.06 years
  male: 77.17 years
  female: 83.09 years (2008 est.)

Greece
  total population: 79.52 years
  male: 76.98 years
  female: 82.21 years (2008 est.)

Greenland
  total population: 69.46 years
  male: 66.81 years
  female: 72.25 years (2008 est.)

Grenada
  total population: 65.6 years
  male: 63.74 years
  female: 67.47 years (2008 est.)

Guam
  total population: 78.93 years
  male: 75.86 years
  female: 82.19 years (2008 est.)

Guatemala
  total population: 69.99 years
  male: 68.22 years
  female: 71.86 years (2008 est.)

Guernsey
  total population: 80.65 years
  male: 77.64 years
  female: 83.76 years (2008 est.)

Guinea
  total population: 56.58 years
  male: 55.12 years
  female: 58.08 years (2008 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  total population: 47.52 years
  male: 45.71 years
  female: 49.39 years (2008 est.)

Guyana
  total population: 66.43 years
  male: 63.81 years
  female: 69.18 years (2008 est.)

Haiti
  total population: 57.56 years
  male: 55.83 years
  female: 59.35 years (2008 est.)

Honduras
  total population: 69.37 years
  male: 67.81 years
  female: 71.01 years (2008 est.)

Hong Kong
  total population: 81.77 years
  male: 79.07 years
  female: 84.69 years (2008 est.)

Hungary
  total population: 73.18 years
  male: 69 years
  female: 77.62 years (2008 est.)

Iceland
  total population: 80.55 years
  male: 78.43 years
  female: 82.76 years (2008 est.)

India
  total population: 69.25 years
  male: 66.87 years
  female: 71.9 years (2008 est.)

Indonesia
  total population: 70.46 years
  male: 67.98 years
  female: 73.07 years (2008 est.)

Iran
  total population: 70.86 years
  male: 69.39 years
  female: 72.4 years (2008 est.)

Iraq
  total population: 69.62 years
  male: 68.32 years
  female: 70.99 years (2008 est.)

Ireland
  total population: 78.07 years
  male: 75.44 years
  female: 80.88 years (2008 est.)

Isle of Man
  total population: 78.8 years
  male: 75.46 years
  female: 82.32 years (2008 est.)

Israel
  total population: 80.61 years
  male: 78.54 years
  female: 82.79 years (2008 est.)

Italy
  total population: 80.07 years
  male: 77.13 years
  female: 83.2 years (2008 est.)

Jamaica
  total population: 73.59 years
  male: 71.88 years
  female: 75.38 years (2008 est.)

Japan
  total population: 82.07 years
  male: 78.73 years
  female: 85.59 years (2008 est.)

Jersey
  total population: 79.65 years
  male: 77.15 years
  female: 82.35 years (2008 est.)

Jordan
  total population: 78.71 years
  male: 76.19 years
  female: 81.39 years (2008 est.)

Kazakhstan
  total population: 67.55 years
  male: 62.24 years
  female: 73.16 years (2008 est.)

Kenya
  total population: 56.64 years
  male: 56.42 years
  female: 56.87 years (2008 est.)

Kiribati
  total population: 62.85 years
  male: 59.79 years
  female: 66.06 years (2008 est.)

Korea, North
  total population: 72.2 years
  male: 69.45 years
  female: 75.08 years (2008 est.)

Korea, South
  total population: 78.64 years
  male: 75.34 years
  female: 82.17 years (2008 est.)

Kuwait
  total population: 77.53 years
  male: 76.38 years
  female: 78.73 years (2008 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  total population: 69.12 years
  male: 65.12 years
  female: 73.33 years (2008 est.)

Laos
  total population: 56.29 years
  male: 54.19 years
  female: 58.47 years (2008 est.)

Latvia
  total population: 71.88 years
  male: 66.68 years
  female: 77.35 years (2008 est.)

Lebanon
  total population: 73.41 years
  male: 70.91 years
  female: 76.04 years (2008 est.)

Lesotho
  total population: 40.17 years
  male: 40.97 years
  female: 39.34 years (2008 est.)

Liberia
  total population: 41.13 years
  male: 39.85 years
  female: 42.46 years (2008 est.)

Libya
  total population: 77.07 years
  male: 74.81 years
  female: 79.44 years (2008 est.)

Liechtenstein
  total population: 79.95 years
  male: 76.38 years
  female: 83.52 years (2008 est.)

Lithuania
  total population: 74.67 years
  male: 69.72 years
  female: 79.89 years (2008 est.)

Luxembourg
  total population: 79.18 years
  male: 75.91 years
  female: 82.67 years (2008 est.)

Macau
  total population: 84.33 years
  male: 81.36 years
  female: 87.45 years (2008 est.)

Macedonia
  total population: 74.45 years
  male: 71.95 years
  female: 77.13 years (2008 est.)

Madagascar
  total population: 62.52 years
  male: 60.58 years
  female: 64.51 years (2008 est.)

Malawi
  total population: 43.45 years
  male: 43.74 years
  female: 43.15 years (2008 est.)

Malaysia
  total population: 73.03 years
  male: 70.32 years
  female: 75.94 years (2008 est.)

Maldives
  total population: 73.72 years
  male: 71.55 years
  female: 76.01 years (2008 est.)

Mali
  total population: 49.94 years
  male: 48 years
  female: 51.94 years (2008 est.)

Malta
  total population: 79.3 years
  male: 77.08 years
  female: 81.64 years (2008 est.)

Marshall Islands
  total population: 70.9 years
  male: 68.88 years
  female: 73.03 years (2008 est.)

Mauritania
  total population: 53.91 years
  male: 51.61 years
  female: 56.28 years (2008 est.)

Mauritius
  total population: 73.75 years
  male: 70.28 years
  female: 77.4 years (2008 est.)

Mayotte
  total population: 62.54 years
  male: 60.3 years
  female: 64.85 years (2008 est.)

Mexico
  total population: 75.84 years
  male: 73.05 years
  female: 78.78 years (2008 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  total population: 70.65 years
  male: 68.79 years
  female: 72.61 years (2008 est.)

Moldova
  total population: 70.5 years
  male: 66.81 years
  female: 74.41 years (2008 est.)

Monaco
  total population: 79.96 years
  male: 76.14 years
  female: 83.97 years (2008 est.)

Mongolia
  total population: 67.32 years
  male: 64.92 years
  female: 69.84 years (2008 est.)

Montserrat
  total population: 72.6 years
  male: 74.66 years
  female: 70.44 years (2008 est.)

Morocco
  total population: 71.52 years
  male: 69.16 years
  female: 74 years (2008 est.)

Mozambique
  total population: 41.04 years
  male: 41.62 years
  female: 40.44 years (2008 est.)

Namibia
  total population: 49.89 years
  male: 50.39 years
  female: 49.38 years (2008 est.)

Nauru
  total population: 63.81 years
  male: 60.2 years
  female: 67.6 years (2008 est.)

Nepal
  total population: 60.94 years
  male: 61.12 years
  female: 60.75 years (2008 est.)

Netherlands
  total population: 79.25 years
  male: 76.66 years
  female: 81.98 years (2008 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  total population: 76.45 years
  male: 74.15 years
  female: 78.87 years (2008 est.)

New Caledonia
  total population: 74.75 years
  male: 71.76 years
  female: 77.88 years (2008 est.)

New Zealand
  total population: 80.24 years
  male: 78.33 years
  female: 82.25 years (2008 est.)

Nicaragua
  total population: 71.21 years
  male: 69.08 years
  female: 73.44 years (2008 est.)

Niger
  total population: 44.28 years
  male: 44.3 years
  female: 44.26 years (2008 est.)

Nigeria
  total population: 46.53 years
  male: 45.78 years
  female: 47.32 years (2008 est.)

Niue
  total population: NA
  male: NA
  female: NA (2008 est.)

Norfolk Island
  total population: NA
  male: NA
  female: NA (2008 est.)

Northern Mariana Islands
  total population: 76.5 years
  male: 73.89 years
  female: 79.26 years (2008 est.)

Norway
  total population: 79.81 years
  male: 77.16 years
  female: 82.6 years (2008 est.)

Oman
  total population: 73.91 years
  male: 71.64 years
  female: 76.29 years (2008 est.)

Pakistan
  total population: 64.13 years
  male: 63.07 years
  female: 65.25 years (2008 est.)

Palau
  total population: 71 years
  male: 67.82 years
  female: 74.36 years (2008 est.)

Panama
  total population: 76.88 years
  male: 74.08 years
  female: 79.81 years (2008 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  total population: 66 years
  male: 63.76 years
  female: 68.35 years (2008 est.)

Paraguay
  total population: 75.56 years
  male: 72.99 years
  female: 78.26 years (2008 est.)

Peru
  total population: 70.44 years
  male: 68.61 years
  female: 72.37 years (2008 est.)

Philippines
  total population: 70.8 years
  male: 67.89 years
  female: 73.85 years (2008 est.)

Pitcairn Islands
  total population: NA
  male: NA
  female: NA (2008 est.)

Poland
  total population: 75.41 years
  male: 71.42 years
  female: 79.65 years (2008 est.)

Portugal
  total population: 78.04 years
  male: 74.78 years
  female: 81.53 years (2008 est.)

Puerto Rico
  total population: 78.58 years
  male: 74.64 years
  female: 82.73 years (2008 est.)

Qatar
  total population: 75.19 years
  male: 73.5 years
  female: 76.98 years (2008 est.)

Romania
  total population: 72.18 years
  male: 68.69 years
  female: 75.89 years (2008 est.)

Russia
  total population: 65.94 years
  male: 59.19 years
  female: 73.1 years (2008 est.)

Rwanda
  total population: 49.76 years
  male: 48.56 years
  female: 51 years (2008 est.)

Saint Helena
  total population: 78.27 years
  male: 75.36 years
  female: 81.33 years (2008 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  total population: 72.94 years
  male: 70.08 years
  female: 75.98 years (2008 est.)

Saint Lucia
  total population: 76.25 years
  male: 73.59 years
  female: 79.05 years (2008 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  total population: 78.91 years
  male: 76.55 years
  female: 81.4 years (2008 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  total population: 74.34 years
  male: 72.42 years
  female: 76.31 years (2008 est.)

Samoa
  total population: 71.58 years
  male: 68.76 years
  female: 74.55 years (2008 est.)

San Marino
  total population: 81.88 years
  male: 78.43 years
  female: 85.64 years (2008 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe
  total population: 68 years
  male: 66.35 years
  female: 69.69 years (2008 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  total population: 76.09 years
  male: 74.04 years
  female: 78.25 years (2008 est.)

Senegal
  total population: 57.08 years
  male: 55.7 years
  female: 58.5 years (2008 est.)

Serbia
  total population: 75.29 years
  male: 72.7 years
  female: 78.09 years (2008 est.)

Seychelles
  total population: 72.6 years
  male: 67.27 years
  female: 78.1 years (2008 est.)

Sierra Leone
  total population: 40.93 years
  male: 38.64 years
  female: 43.28 years (2008 est.)

Singapore
  total population: 81.89 years
  male: 79.29 years
  female: 84.68 years (2008 est.)

Slovakia
  total population: 75.17 years
  male: 71.23 years
  female: 79.32 years (2008 est.)

Slovenia
  total population: 76.73 years
  male: 73.04 years
  female: 80.66 years (2008 est.)

Solomon Islands
  total population: 73.44 years
  male: 70.9 years
  female: 76.1 years (2008 est.)

Somalia
  total population: 49.25 years
  male: 47.43 years
  female: 51.12 years (2008 est.)

South Africa
  total population: 48.89 years
  male: 49.63 years
  female: 48.15 years (2008 est.)

Spain
  total population: 79.92 years
  male: 76.6 years
  female: 83.45 years (2008 est.)

Sri Lanka
  total population: 74.97 years
  male: 72.95 years
  female: 77.08 years (2008 est.)

Sudan
  total population: 50.28 years
  male: 49.38 years
  female: 51.23 years (2008 est.)

Suriname
  total population: 73.48 years
  male: 70.76 years
  female: 76.39 years (2008 est.)

Svalbard
  total population: NA
  male: NA
  female: NA (2008 est.)

Swaziland
  total population: 31.99 years
  male: 31.69 years
  female: 32.3 years (2008 est.)

Sweden
  total population: 80.74 years
  male: 78.49 years
  female: 83.13 years (2008 est.)

Switzerland
  total population: 80.74 years
  male: 77.91 years
  female: 83.71 years (2008 est.)

Syria
  total population: 70.9 years
  male: 69.53 years
  female: 72.35 years (2008 est.)

Taiwan
  total population: 77.76 years
  male: 74.89 years
  female: 80.89 years (2008 est.)

Tajikistan
  total population: 64.97 years
  male: 61.95 years
  female: 68.15 years (2008 est.)

Tanzania
  total population: 51.45 years
  male: 50.06 years
  female: 52.88 years (2008 est.)

Thailand
  total population: 72.83 years
  male: 70.51 years
  female: 75.27 years (2008 est.)

Timor-Leste
  total population: 66.94 years
  male: 64.6 years
  female: 69.39 years (2008 est.)

Togo
  total population: 58.28 years
  male: 56.2 years
  female: 60.43 years (2008 est.)

Tokelau
  total population: NA
  male: NA
  female: NA (2008 est.)

Tonga
  total population: 70.44 years
  male: 67.9 years
  female: 73.1 years (2008 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  total population: 67 years
  male: 66.07 years
  female: 67.98 years (2008 est.)

Tunisia
  total population: 75.56 years
  male: 73.79 years
  female: 77.46 years (2008 est.)

Turkey
  total population: 73.14 years
  male: 70.67 years
  female: 75.73 years (2008 est.)

Turkmenistan
  total population: 68.6 years
  male: 65.53 years
  female: 71.82 years (2008 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  total population: 75.19 years
  male: 72.91 years
  female: 77.59 years (2008 est.)

Tuvalu
  total population: 68.97 years
  male: 66.7 years
  female: 71.36 years (2008 est.)

Uganda
  total population: 52.34 years
  male: 51.31 years
  female: 53.4 years (2008 est.)

Ukraine
  total population: 68.06 years
  male: 62.24 years
  female: 74.24 years (2008 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  total population: 75.89 years
  male: 73.35 years
  female: 78.56 years (2008 est.)

United Kingdom
  total population: 78.85 years
  male: 76.37 years
  female: 81.46 years (2008 est.)

United States
  total population: 78.14 years
  male: 75.29 years
  female: 81.13 years (2008 est.)

Uruguay
  total population: 76.14 years
  male: 72.89 years
  female: 79.51 years (2008 est.)

Uzbekistan
  total population: 71.69 years
  male: 68.69 years
  female: 74.87 years (2008 est.)

Vanuatu
  total population: 63.61 years
  male: 62.04 years
  female: 65.27 years (2008 est.)

Venezuela
  total population: 73.45 years
  male: 70.4 years
  female: 76.65 years (2008 est.)

Vietnam
  total population: 71.33 years
  male: 68.52 years
  female: 74.33 years (2008 est.)

Virgin Islands
  total population: 78.92 years
  male: 75.9 years
  female: 82.11 years (2008 est.)

Wallis and Futuna
  total population: NA
  male: NA
  female: NA (2008 est.)

West Bank
  total population: 74.29 years
  male: 72.32 years
  female: 76.38 years (2008 est.)

Western Sahara
  total population: 53.92 years NA
  male: 51.64 years NA
  female: 56.31 years NA (2008 est.)

World
  total population: 66.26 years
  male: 64.3 years
  female: 68.35 years (2008 est.)

Yemen
  total population: 62.9 years
  male: 60.96 years
  female: 64.94 years (2008 est.)

Zambia
  total population: 38.59 years
  male: 38.49 years
  female: 38.7 years (2008 est.)

Zimbabwe
  total population: 44.28 years
  male: 45.08 years
  female: 43.46 years (2008 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2103  Literacy (%)


Afghanistan
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 28.1%
  male: 43.1%
  female: 12.6% (2000 est.)

Albania
  definition: age 9 and over can read and write
  total population: 98.7%
  male: 99.2%
  female: 98.3% (2001 census)

Algeria
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 69.9%
  male: 79.6%
  female: 60.1% (2002 est.)

American Samoa
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 97%
  male: 98%
  female: 97% (1980 est.)

Andorra
  definition: NA
  total population: 100%
  male: 100%
  female: 100%

Angola
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 67.4%
  male: 82.9%
  female: 54.2% (2001 est.)

Anguilla
  definition: age 12 and over can read and write
  total population: 95%
  male: 95%
  female: 95% (1984 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  definition: age 15 and over has completed five
  or more years of schooling
  total population: 85.8%
  male: NA%
  female: NA% (2003 est.)

Argentina
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 97.2%
  male: 97.2%
  female: 97.2% (2001 census)

Armenia
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 99.4%
  male: 99.7%
  female: 99.2% (2001 census)

Aruba
  definition: NA
  total population: 97.3%
  male: 97.5%
  female: 97.1% (2000 census)

Australia
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 99%
  male: 99%
  female: 99% (2003 est.)

Austria
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 98%
  male: NA
  female: NA

Azerbaijan
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 98.8%
  male: 99.5%
  female: 98.2% (1999 census)

Bahamas, The
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 95.6%
  male: 94.7%
  female: 96.5% (2003 est.)

Bahrain
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 86.5%
  male: 88.6%
  female: 83.6% (2001 census)

Bangladesh
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 43.1%
  male: 53.9%
  female: 31.8% (2003 est.)

Barbados
  definition: age 15 and over has ever attended school
  total population: 99.7%
  male: 99.7%
  female: 99.7% (2002 est.)

Belarus
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 99.6%
  male: 99.8%
  female: 99.4% (1999 census)

Belgium
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 99%
  male: 99%
  female: 99% (2003 est.)

Belize
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 76.9%
  male: 76.7%
  female: 77.1% (2000 census)

Benin
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 34.7%
  male: 47.9%
  female: 23.3% (2002 census)

Bermuda
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 98%
  male: 98%
  female: 99% (2005 est.)

Bhutan
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 47%
  male: 60%
  female: 34% (2003 est.)

Bolivia
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 86.7%
  male: 93.1%
  female: 80.7% (2001 census)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 96.7%
  male: 99%
  female: 94.4% (2000 est.)

Botswana
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 81.2%
  male: 80.4%
  female: 81.8% (2003 est.)

Brazil
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 88.6%
  male: 88.4%
  female: 88.8% (2004 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 97.8% (1991 est.)
  male: NA%
  female: NA%

Brunei
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 92.7%
  male: 95.2%
  female: 90.2% (2001 census)

Bulgaria
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 98.2%
  male: 98.7%
  female: 97.7% (2001 census)

Burkina Faso
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 21.8%
  male: 29.4%
  female: 15.2% (2003 est.)

Burma
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 89.9%
  male: 93.9%
  female: 86.4% (2006 est.)

Burundi
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 59.3%
  male: 67.3%
  female: 52.2% (2000 est.)

Cambodia
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 73.6%
  male: 84.7%
  female: 64.1% (2004 est.)

Cameroon
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 67.9%
  male: 77%
  female: 59.8% (2001 est.)

Canada
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 99%
  male: 99%
  female: 99% (2003 est.)

Cape Verde
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 76.6%
  male: 85.8%
  female: 69.2% (2003 est.)

Cayman Islands
  definition: age 15 and over has ever attended school
  total population: 98%
  male: 98%
  female: 98% (1970 est.)

Central African Republic
  definition: age 15 and over can read and
  write
  total population: 48.6%
  male: 64.8%
  female: 33.5% (2000 est.)

Chad
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write French or Arabic
  total population: 25.7%
  male: 40.8%
  female: 12.8% (2000 est.)

Chile
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 95.7%
  male: 95.8%
  female: 95.6% (2002 census)

China
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 90.9%
  male: 95.1%
  female: 86.5% (2000 census)

Christmas Island
  NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  NA

Colombia
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 92.8%
  male: 92.9%
  female: 92.7% (2004 est.)

Comoros
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 56.5%
  male: 63.6%
  female: 49.3% (2003 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  definition: age 15 and over can
  read and write French, Lingala, Kingwana, or Tshiluba
  total population: 67.2%
  male: 80.9%
  female: 54.1% (2001 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 83.8%
  male: 89.6%
  female: 78.4% (2003 est.)

Cook Islands
  definition: NA
  total population: 95%
  male: NA%
  female: NA%

Costa Rica
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 94.9%
  male: 94.7%
  female: 95.1% (2000 census)

Cote d'Ivoire
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 48.7%
  male: 60.8%
  female: 38.6% (2000 est.)

Croatia
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 98.1%
  male: 99.3%
  female: 97.1% (2001 census)

Cuba
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 99.8%
  male: 99.8%
  female: 99.8% (2002 census)

Cyprus
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 97.6%
  male: 98.9%
  female: 96.3% (2001 census)

Czech Republic
  definition: NA
  total population: 99%
  male: 99%
  female: 99% (2003 est.)

Denmark
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 99%
  male: 99%
  female: 99% (2003 est.)

Djibouti
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 67.9%
  male: 78%
  female: 58.4% (2003 est.)

Dominica
  definition: age 15 and over has ever attended school
  total population: 94%
  male: 94%
  female: 94% (2003 est.)

Dominican Republic
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 87%
  male: 86.8%
  female: 87.2% (2002 census)

Ecuador
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 91%
  male: 92.3%
  female: 89.7% (2001 census)

Egypt
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 71.4%
  male: 83%
  female: 59.4% (2005 est.)

El Salvador
  definition: age 10 and over can read and write
  total population: 80.2%
  male: 82.8%
  female: 77.7% (2003 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 87%
  male: 93.4%
  female: 80.5% (2000 est.)

Eritrea
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 58.6%
  male: 69.9%
  female: 47.6% (2003 est.)

Estonia
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 99.8%
  male: 99.8%
  female: 99.8% (2000 census)

Ethiopia
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 42.7%
  male: 50.3%
  female: 35.1% (2003 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  NA

Faroe Islands
  NA; note - probably 99%, the same as Denmark proper

Fiji
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 93.7%
  male: 95.5%
  female: 91.9% (2003 est.)

Finland
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 100%
  male: 100%
  female: 100% (2000 est.)

France
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 99%
  male: 99%
  female: 99% (2003 est.)

French Polynesia
  definition: age 14 and over can read and write
  total population: 98%
  male: 98%
  female: 98% (1977 est.)

Gabon
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 63.2%
  male: 73.7%
  female: 53.3% (1995 est.)

Gambia, The
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 40.1%
  male: 47.8%
  female: 32.8% (2003 est.)

Gaza Strip
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 92.4%
  male: 96.7%
  female: 88% (2004 est.)

Georgia
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 100%
  male: 100%
  female: 100% (2004 est.)

Germany
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 99%
  male: 99%
  female: 99% (2003 est.)

Ghana
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 57.9%
  male: 66.4%
  female: 49.8% (2000 census)

Gibraltar
  definition: NA
  total population: above 80%
  male: NA
  female: NA

Greece
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 96%
  male: 97.8%
  female: 94.2% (2001 census)

Greenland
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 100%
  male: 100%
  female: 100% (2001 est.)

Grenada
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 96%
  male: NA
  female: NA (2003 est.)

Guam
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 99%
  male: 99%
  female: 99% (1990 est.)

Guatemala
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 69.1%
  male: 75.4%
  female: 63.3% (2002 census)

Guernsey
  NA

Guinea
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 29.5%
  male: 42.6%
  female: 18.1% (2003 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 42.4%
  male: 58.1%
  female: 27.4% (2003 est.)

Guyana
  definition: age 15 and over has ever attended school
  total population: 98.8%
  male: 99.1%
  female: 98.5% (2003 est.)

Haiti
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 52.9%
  male: 54.8%
  female: 51.2% (2003 est.)

Holy See (Vatican City)
  definition: NA
  total population: 100%
  male: 100%
  female: 100%

Honduras
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 80%
  male: 79.8%
  female: 80.2% (2001 census)

Hong Kong
  definition: age 15 and over has ever attended school
  total population: 93.5%
  male: 96.9%
  female: 89.6% (2002)

Hungary
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 99.4%
  male: 99.5%
  female: 99.3% (2003 est.)

Iceland
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 99%
  male: 99%
  female: 99% (2003 est.)

India
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 61%
  male: 73.4%
  female: 47.8% (2001 census)

Indonesia
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 90.4%
  male: 94%
  female: 86.8% (2004 est.)

Iran
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 77%
  male: 83.5%
  female: 70.4% (2002 est.)

Iraq
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 74.1%
  male: 84.1%
  female: 64.2% (2000 est.)

Ireland
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 99%
  male: 99%
  female: 99% (2003 est.)

Isle of Man
  NA

Israel
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 97.1%
  male: 98.5%
  female: 95.9% (2004 est.)

Italy
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 98.4%
  male: 98.8%
  female: 98% (2001 census)

Jamaica
  definition: age 15 and over has ever attended school
  total population: 87.9%
  male: 84.1%
  female: 91.6% (2003 est.)

Japan
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 99%
  male: 99%
  female: 99% (2002)

Jersey
  NA

Jordan
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 89.9%
  male: 95.1%
  female: 84.7% (2003 est.)

Kazakhstan
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 99.5%
  male: 99.8%
  female: 99.3% (1999 est.)

Kenya
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 85.1%
  male: 90.6%
  female: 79.7% (2003 est.)

Kiribati
  NA

Korea, North
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 99%
  male: 99%
  female: 99%

Korea, South
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 97.9%
  male: 99.2%
  female: 96.6% (2002)

Kuwait
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 93.3%
  male: 94.4%
  female: 91% (2005 census)

Kyrgyzstan
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 98.7%
  male: 99.3%
  female: 98.1% (1999 census)

Laos
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 68.7%
  male: 77%
  female: 60.9% (2001 est.)

Latvia
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 99.7%
  male: 99.8%
  female: 99.7% (2000 census)

Lebanon
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 87.4%
  male: 93.1%
  female: 82.2% (2003 est.)

Lesotho
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 84.8%
  male: 74.5%
  female: 94.5% (2003 est.)

Liberia
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 57.5%
  male: 73.3%
  female: 41.6% (2003 est.)

Libya
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 82.6%
  male: 92.4%
  female: 72% (2003 est.)

Liechtenstein
  definition: age 10 and over can read and write
  total population: 100%
  male: 100%
  female: 100%

Lithuania
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 99.6%
  male: 99.6%
  female: 99.6% (2001 census)

Luxembourg
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 100%
  male: 100%
  female: 100% (2000 est.)

Macau
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 91.3%
  male: 95.3%
  female: 87.8% (2001 census)

Macedonia
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 96.1%
  male: 98.2%
  female: 94.1% (2002 census)

Madagascar
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 68.9%
  male: 75.5%
  female: 62.5% (2003 est.)

Malawi
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 62.7%
  male: 76.1%
  female: 49.8% (2003 est.)

Malaysia
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 88.7%
  male: 92%
  female: 85.4% (2000 census)

Maldives
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 96.3%
  male: 96.2%
  female: 96.4% (2000 census)

Mali
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 46.4%
  male: 53.5%
  female: 39.6% (2003 est.)

Malta
  definition: age 10 and over can read and write
  total population: 92.8%
  male: 92%
  female: 93.6% (2003 est.)

Marshall Islands
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 93.7%
  male: 93.6%
  female: 93.7% (1999)

Mauritania
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 51.2%
  male: 59.5%
  female: 43.4% (2000 census)

Mauritius
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 84.4%
  male: 88.4%
  female: 80.5% (2000 census)

Mayotte
  NA

Mexico
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 91%
  male: 92.4%
  female: 89.6% (2004 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  definition: age 15 and over can read
  and write
  total population: 89%
  male: 91%
  female: 88% (1980 est.)

Moldova
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 99.1%
  male: 99.7%
  female: 98.6% (2005 est.)

Monaco
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 99%
  male: 99%
  female: 99% (2003 est.)

Mongolia
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 97.8%
  male: 98%
  female: 97.5% (2000 census)

Montserrat
  definition: age 15 and over has ever attended school
  total population: 97%
  male: 97%
  female: 97% (1970 est.)

Morocco
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 52.3%
  male: 65.7%
  female: 39.6% (2004 census)

Mozambique
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 47.8%
  male: 63.5%
  female: 32.7% (2003 est.)

Namibia
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 85%
  male: 86.8%
  female: 83.5% (2001 census)

Nauru
  NA

Nepal
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 48.6%
  male: 62.7%
  female: 34.9% (2001 census)

Netherlands
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 99%
  male: 99%
  female: 99% (2003 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 96.7%
  male: 96.7%
  female: 96.8% (2003 est.)

New Caledonia
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 96.2%
  male: 96.8%
  female: 95.5% (1996 census)

New Zealand
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 99%
  male: 99%
  female: 99% (2003 est.)

Nicaragua
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 67.5%
  male: 67.2%
  female: 67.8% (2003 est.)

Niger
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 28.7%
  male: 42.9%
  female: 15.1% (2005 est.)

Nigeria
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 68%
  male: 75.7%
  female: 60.6% (2003 est.)

Niue
  definition: NA
  total population: 95%
  male: NA
  female: NA

Norfolk Island
  NA

Northern Mariana Islands
  definition: age 15 and over can read and
  write
  total population: 97%
  male: 97%
  female: 96% (1980 est.)

Norway
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 100%
  male: 100%
  female: 100%

Oman
  definition: NA
  total population: 81.4%
  male: 86.8%
  female: 73.5% (2003 census)

Pakistan
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 49.9%
  male: 63%
  female: 36% (2005 est.)

Palau
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 92%
  male: 93%
  female: 90% (1980 est.)

Panama
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 91.9%
  male: 92.5%
  female: 91.2% (2000 census)

Papua New Guinea
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 57.3%
  male: 63.4%
  female: 50.9% (2000 census)

Paraguay
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 94%
  male: 94.9%
  female: 93% (2003 est.)

Peru
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 87.7%
  male: 93.5%
  female: 82.1% (2004 est.)

Philippines
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 92.6%
  male: 92.5%
  female: 92.7% (2000 census)

Pitcairn Islands
  NA

Poland
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 99.8%
  male: 99.8%
  female: 99.7% (2003 est.)

Portugal
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 93.3%
  male: 95.5%
  female: 91.3% (2003 est.)

Puerto Rico
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 94.1%
  male: 93.9%
  female: 94.4% (2002 est.)

Qatar
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 89%
  male: 89.1%
  female: 88.6% (2004 census)

Romania
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 97.3%
  male: 98.4%
  female: 96.3% (2002 census)

Russia
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 99.4%
  male: 99.7%
  female: 99.2% (2002 census)

Rwanda
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 70.4%
  male: 76.3%
  female: 64.7% (2003 est.)

Saint Helena
  definition: age 20 and over can read and write
  total population: 97%
  male: 97%
  female: 98% (1987 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  definition: age 15 and over has ever attended
  school
  total population: 97.8%
  male: NA%
  female: NA% (2003 est.)

Saint Lucia
  definition: age 15 and over has ever attended school
  total population: 90.1%
  male: 89.5%
  female: 90.6% (2001 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  definition: age 15 and over can read and
  write
  total population: 99%
  male: 99%
  female: 99% (1982 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  definition: age 15 and over has
  ever attended school
  total population: 96%
  male: 96%
  female: 96% (1970 est.)

Samoa
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 99.7%
  male: 99.6%
  female: 99.7% (2003 est.)

San Marino
  definition: age 10 and over can read and write
  total population: 96%
  male: 97%
  female: 95%

Sao Tome and Principe
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 84.9%
  male: 92.2%
  female: 77.9% (2001 census)

Saudi Arabia
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 78.8%
  male: 84.7%
  female: 70.8% (2003 est.)

Senegal
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 39.3%
  male: 51.1%
  female: 29.2% (2002 est.)

Serbia
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 96.4%
  male: 98.9%
  female: 94.1% (2003 census)
  note: includes Montenegro

Seychelles
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 91.8%
  male: 91.4%
  female: 92.3% (2002 census)

Sierra Leone
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write English,
  Mende, Temne, or Arabic
  total population: 35.1%
  male: 46.9%
  female: 24.4% (2004 est.)

Singapore
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 92.5%
  male: 96.6%
  female: 88.6% (2000 census)

Slovakia
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 99.6%
  male: 99.7%
  female: 99.6% (2001 est.)

Slovenia
  definition: NA
  total population: 99.7%
  male: 99.7%
  female: 99.6%

Solomon Islands
  NA

Somalia
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 37.8%
  male: 49.7%
  female: 25.8% (2001 est.)

South Africa
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 86.4%
  male: 87%
  female: 85.7% (2003 est.)

Spain
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 97.9%
  male: 98.7%
  female: 97.2% (2003 est.)

Sri Lanka
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 90.7%
  male: 92.3%
  female: 89.1% (2001 census)

Sudan
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 61.1%
  male: 71.8%
  female: 50.5% (2003 est.)

Suriname
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 89.6%
  male: 92%
  female: 87.2% (2004 census)

Svalbard
  NA

Swaziland
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 81.6%
  male: 82.6%
  female: 80.8% (2003 est.)

Sweden
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 99%
  male: 99%
  female: 99% (2003 est.)

Switzerland
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 99%
  male: 99%
  female: 99% (2003 est.)

Syria
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 79.6%
  male: 86%
  female: 73.6% (2004 census)

Taiwan
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 96.1%
  male: NA
  female: NA (2003)

Tajikistan
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 99.5%
  male: 99.7%
  female: 99.2% (2000 census)

Tanzania
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write Kiswahili
  (Swahili), English, or Arabic
  total population: 69.4%
  male: 77.5%
  female: 62.2% (2002 census)

Thailand
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 92.6%
  male: 94.9%
  female: 90.5% (2000 census)

Timor-Leste
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 58.6%
  male: NA
  female: NA (2002)

Togo
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 60.9%
  male: 75.4%
  female: 46.9% (2003 est.)

Tokelau
  NA

Tonga
  definition: can read and write Tongan and/or English
  total population: 98.9%
  male: 98.8%
  female: 99% (1999 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 98.6%
  male: 99.1%
  female: 98% (2003 est.)

Tunisia
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 74.3%
  male: 83.4%
  female: 65.3% (2004 census)

Turkey
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 87.4%
  male: 95.3%
  female: 79.6% (2004 est.)

Turkmenistan
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 98.8%
  male: 99.3%
  female: 98.3% (1999 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  definition: age 15 and over has ever
  attended school
  total population: 98%
  male: 99%
  female: 98% (1970 est.)

Tuvalu
  NA

Uganda
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 66.8%
  male: 76.8%
  female: 57.7% (2002 census)

Ukraine
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 99.4%
  male: 99.7%
  female: 99.2% (2001 census)

United Arab Emirates
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 77.9%
  male: 76.1%
  female: 81.7% (2003 est.)

United Kingdom
  definition: age 15 and over has completed five or
  more years of schooling
  total population: 99%
  male: 99%
  female: 99% (2003 est.)

United States
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 99%
  male: 99%
  female: 99% (2003 est.)

Uruguay
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 98%
  male: 97.6%
  female: 98.4% (2003 est.)

Uzbekistan
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 99.3%
  male: 99.6%
  female: 99% (2003 est.)

Vanuatu
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 74%
  male: NA
  female: NA (1999 census)

Venezuela
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 93%
  male: 93.3%
  female: 92.7% (2001 census)

Vietnam
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 90.3%
  male: 93.9%
  female: 86.9% (2002 est.)

Virgin Islands
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 90-95% est.
  male: NA%
  female: NA% (2005 est.)

Wallis and Futuna
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 50%
  male: 50%
  female: 50% (1969 est.)

West Bank
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 92.4%
  male: 96.7%
  female: 88% (2004 est.)

Western Sahara
  NA

World
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 82%
  male: 87%
  female: 77%
  note: over two-thirds of the world's 785 million illiterate adults
  are found in only eight countries (India, China, Bangladesh,
  Pakistan, Nigeria, Ethiopia, Indonesia, and Egypt); of all the
  illiterate adults in the world, two-thirds are women; extremely low
  literacy rates are concentrated in three regions, South and West
  Asia, Sub-Saharan Africa, and the Arab states, where around
  one-third of the men and half of all women are illiterate (2005 est.)

Yemen
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write
  total population: 50.2%
  male: 70.5%
  female: 30% (2003 est.)

Zambia
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write English
  total population: 80.6%
  male: 86.8%
  female: 74.8% (2003 est.)

Zimbabwe
  definition: age 15 and over can read and write English
  total population: 90.7%
  male: 94.2%
  female: 87.2% (2003 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2105  Manpower available for military service


Afghanistan
  males age 16-49: 7,431,147
  females age 16-49: 7,004,819 (2008 est.)

Albania
  males age 16-49: 944,592
  females age 16-49: 908,527 (2008 est.)

Algeria
  males age 16-49: 9,736,757
  females age 16-49: 9,590,978 (2008 est.)

Andorra
  males age 16-49: 18,685 (2008 est.)

Angola
  males age 16-49: 2,856,492
  females age 16-49: 2,755,864 (2008 est.)

Anguilla
  males age 16-49: 3,538 (2008 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  males age 16-49: 19,560
  females age 16-49: 18,977 (2008 est.)

Argentina
  males age 16-49: 10,029,488
  females age 16-49: 9,889,002 (2008 est.)

Armenia
  males age 16-49: 809,576
  females age 16-49: 870,864 (2008 est.)

Aruba
  males age 16-49: 24,585
  females age 16-49: 25,742 (2008 est.)

Australia
  males age 16-49: 4,999,988
  females age 16-49: 4,870,043 (2008 est.)

Austria
  males age 16-49: 1,986,411
  females age 16-49: 1,944,834 (2008 est.)

Azerbaijan
  males age 16-49: 2,278,888
  females age 16-49: 2,291,770 (2008 est.)

Bahamas, The
  males age 16-49: 80,200 (2008 est.)

Bahrain
  males age 16-49: 210,938
  females age 16-49: 170,471 (2008 est.)

Bangladesh
  males age 16-49: 41,199,340 (2008 est.)

Barbados
  males age 16-49: 75,265
  females age 16-49: 75,389 (2008 est.)

Belarus
  males age 16-49: 2,491,643
  females age 16-49: 2,528,779 (2008 est.)

Belgium
  males age 16-49: 2,407,128
  females age 16-49: 2,340,039 (2008 est.)

Belize
  males age 16-49: 74,605
  females age 16-49: 72,926 (2008 est.)

Benin
  males age 16-49: 1,908,457
  females age 16-49: 1,882,421 (2008 est.)

Bermuda
  males age 16-49: 15,623 (2008 est.)

Bhutan
  males age 16-49: 190,104
  females age 16-49: 167,289 (2008 est.)

Bolivia
  males age 16-49: 2,295,746
  females age 16-49: 2,366,828 (2008 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  males age 16-49: 1,212,007
  females age 16-49: 1,170,645 (2008 est.)

Botswana
  males age 16-49: 487,853
  females age 16-49: 464,278 (2008 est.)

Brazil
  males age 16-49: 52,449,957
  females age 16-49: 52,375,921 (2008 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  males age 16-49: 7,101 (2008 est.)

Brunei
  males age 16-49: 108,356
  females age 16-49: 110,153 (2008 est.)

Bulgaria
  males age 16-49: 1,701,979
  females age 16-49: 1,691,092 (2008 est.)

Burkina Faso
  males age 16-49: 3,364,288 (2008 est.)

Burma
  males age 16-49: 13,402,788
  females age 16-49: 13,437,042 (2008 est.)

Burundi
  males age 16-49: 1,878,544
  females age 16-49: 1,851,676 (2008 est.)

Cambodia
  males age 16-49: 3,759,034
  females age 16-49: 3,784,333 (2008 est.)

Cameroon
  males age 16-49: 4,321,175
  females age 16-49: 4,228,625 (2008 est.)

Canada
  males age 16-49: 8,072,010
  females age 16-49: 7,813,462 (2008 est.)

Cape Verde
  males age 16-49: 103,650
  females age 16-49: 103,553 (2008 est.)

Cayman Islands
  males age 16-49: 11,790 (2008 est.)

Central African Republic
  males age 16-49: 1,032,828
  females age 16-49: 999,330 (2008 est.)

Chad
  males age 16-49: 1,906,545
  females age 16-49: 2,258,758 (2008 est.)

Chile
  males age 16-49: 4,242,912
  females age 16-49: 4,182,509 (2008 est.)

China
  males age 16-49: 375,009,345
  females age 16-49: 354,314,328 (2008 est.)

Colombia
  males age 16-49: 11,478,109
  females age 16-49: 11,809,279 (2008 est.)

Comoros
  males age 16-49: 167,850
  females age 16-49: 167,362 (2008 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  males age 16-49: 14,101,263 (2008
  est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  males age 16-49: 842,771
  females age 16-49: 833,624 (2008 est.)

Costa Rica
  males age 16-49: 1,134,205
  females age 16-49: 1,095,763 (2008 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  males age 16-49: 4,369,735
  females age 16-49: 4,287,042 (2008 est.)

Croatia
  males age 16-49: 1,035,712
  females age 16-49: 1,037,896 (2008 est.)

Cuba
  males age 16-49: 3,094,388
  females age 16-49: 3,024,876 (2008 est.)

Cyprus
  Greek Cypriot National Guard (GCNG):
  males age 16-49: 199,767
  females age 16-49: 190,665 (2008 est.)

Czech Republic
  males age 16-49: 2,522,383
  females age 16-49: 2,425,095 (2008 est.)

Denmark
  males age 16-49: 1,235,067
  females age 16-49: 1,215,418 (2008 est.)

Djibouti
  males age 16-49: 111,274
  females age 16-49: 105,168 (2008 est.)

Dominica
  males age 16-49: 18,584 (2008 est.)

Dominican Republic
  males age 16-49: 2,440,203
  females age 16-49: 2,326,694 (2008 est.)

Ecuador
  males age 16-49: 3,536,602
  females age 16-49: 3,559,188 (2008 est.)

Egypt
  males age 16-49: 21,247,777
  females age 16-49: 20,406,408 (2008 est.)

El Salvador
  males age 16-49: 1,634,816
  females age 16-49: 1,775,474 (2008 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  males age 16-49: 136,725
  females age 16-49: 138,018 (2008 est.)

Eritrea
  males age 16-49: 1,108,836
  females age 16-49: 1,096,120 (2008 est.)

Estonia
  males age 16-49: 306,273
  females age 16-49: 317,852 (2008 est.)

Ethiopia
  males age 16-49: 17,666,967
  females age 16-49: 17,530,211 (2008 est.)

Faroe Islands
  males age 16-49: 11,725 (2008 est.)

Fiji
  males age 16-49: 242,567
  females age 16-49: 238,556 (2008 est.)

Finland
  males age 16-49: 1,169,910
  females age 16-49: 1,121,187 (2008 est.)

France
  males age 16-49: 14,646,427
  females age 16-49: 14,379,630 (2008 est.)

French Polynesia
  males age 16-49: 79,540 (2008 est.)

Gabon
  males age 16-49: 331,181
  females age 16-49: 332,498 (2008 est.)

Gambia, The
  males age 16-49: 379,668
  females age 16-49: 384,438 (2008 est.)

Gaza Strip
  males age 16-49: 337,670 (2008 est.)

Georgia
  males age 16-49: 1,113,251
  females age 16-49: 1,168,021 (2008 est.)

Germany
  males age 16-49: 19,594,118
  females age 16-49: 18,543,955 (2008 est.)

Ghana
  males age 16-49: 5,802,096
  females age 16-49: 5,729,939 (2008 est.)

Gibraltar
  males age 16-49: 6,308 (2008 est.)

Greece
  males age 16-49: 2,535,174
  females age 16-49: 2,517,273 (2008 est.)

Greenland
  males age 16-49: 15,221 (2008 est.)

Grenada
  males age 16-49: 27,309 (2008 est.)

Guatemala
  males age 16-49: 2,861,696
  females age 16-49: 3,062,967 (2008 est.)

Guinea
  males age 16-49: 2,230,049
  females age 16-49: 2,193,236 (2008 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  males age 16-49: 344,087
  females age 16-49: 347,886 (2008 est.)

Guyana
  males age 16-49: 220,797 (2008 est.)

Haiti
  males age 16-49: 2,047,083
  females age 16-49: 2,047,953 (2008 est.)

Honduras
  males age 16-49: 1,868,940
  females age 16-49: 1,825,770 (2008 est.)

Hong Kong
  males age 16-49: 1,772,820
  females age 16-49: 1,941,448 (2008 est.)

Hungary
  males age 16-49: 2,391,400
  females age 16-49: 2,337,240 (2008 est.)

Iceland
  males age 16-49: 74,896 (2008 est.)

India
  males age 16-49: 301,094,084
  females age 16-49: 283,047,141 (2008 est.)

Indonesia
  males age 16-49: 63,800,825
  females age 16-49: 61,729,717 (2008 est.)

Iran
  males age 16-49: 20,212,275
  females age 16-49: 19,638,751 (2008 est.)

Iraq
  males age 16-49: 7,086,200
  females age 16-49: 6,808,954 (2008 est.)

Ireland
  males age 16-49: 1,024,635
  females age 16-49: 1,024,276 (2008 est.)

Israel
  males age 16-49: 1,717,362
  females age 16-49: 1,636,574 (2008 est.)

Italy
  males age 16-49: 13,884,079
  females age 16-49: 13,158,378 (2008 est.)

Jamaica
  males age 16-49: 688,480
  females age 16-49: 709,548 (2008 est.)

Japan
  males age 16-49: 27,819,804
  females age 16-49: 26,863,794 (2008 est.)

Jordan
  males age 16-49: 1,812,551
  females age 16-49: 1,559,155 (2008 est.)

Kazakhstan
  males age 16-49: 4,176,731
  females age 16-49: 4,219,636 (2008 est.)

Kenya
  males age 16-49: 9,044,685
  females age 16-49: 8,805,736 (2008 est.)

Kiribati
  males age 16-49: 26,377 (2008 est.)

Korea, North
  males age 16-49: 6,225,747
  females age 16-49: 6,188,270 (2008 est.)

Korea, South
  males age 16-49: 13,691,809
  females age 16-49: 13,029,859 (2008 est.)

Kuwait
  males age 16-49: 1,032,408
  females age 16-49: 568,657 (2008 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  males age 16-49: 1,398,878
  females age 16-49: 1,419,374 (2008 est.)

Laos
  males age 16-49: 1,549,774
  females age 16-49: 1,570,702 (2008 est.)

Latvia
  males age 16-49: 568,683
  females age 16-49: 565,826 (2008 est.)

Lebanon
  males age 16-49: 1,106,879
  females age 16-49: 1,122,595 (2008 est.)

Lesotho
  males age 16-49: 525,203
  females age 16-49: 522,485 (2008 est.)

Liberia
  males age 16-49: 729,813
  females age 16-49: 741,223 (2008 est.)

Libya
  males age 16-49: 1,682,183
  females age 16-49: 1,611,001 (2008 est.)

Liechtenstein
  males age 16-49: 8,102 (2008 est.)

Lithuania
  males age 16-49: 915,187
  females age 16-49: 906,097 (2008 est.)

Luxembourg
  males age 16-49: 116,305
  females age 16-49: 114,566 (2008 est.)

Macau
  males age 16-49: 121,825 (2008 est.)

Macedonia
  males age 16-49: 532,856
  females age 16-49: 513,684 (2008 est.)

Madagascar
  males age 16-49: 4,443,341
  females age 16-49: 4,441,124 (2008 est.)

Malawi
  males age 16-49: 3,050,444 (2008 est.)

Malaysia
  males age 16-49: 6,440,338
  females age 16-49: 6,280,826 (2008 est.)

Maldives
  males age 16-49: 89,505
  females age 16-49: 85,745 (2008 est.)

Mali
  males age 16-49: 2,603,700
  females age 16-49: 2,441,776 (2008 est.)

Malta
  males age 16-49: 96,309
  females age 16-49: 92,242 (2008 est.)

Marshall Islands
  males age 16-49: 15,708 (2008 est.)

Mauritania
  males age 16-49: 740,675
  females age 16-49: 744,709 (2008 est.)

Mauritius
  males age 16-49: 341,018 (2008 est.)

Mexico
  males age 16-49: 27,774,688
  females age 16-49: 29,376,791 (2008 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  males age 16-49: 26,686 (2008 est.)

Moldova
  males age 16-49: 1,161,924
  females age 16-49: 1,187,771 (2008 est.)

Monaco
  males age 16-49: 6,687 (2008 est.)

Mongolia
  males age 16-49: 865,425
  females age 16-49: 860,669 (2008 est.)

Montserrat
  males age 16-49: 2,528 (2008 est.)

Morocco
  males age 16-49: 9,152,580
  females age 16-49: 9,080,830 (2008 est.)

Mozambique
  males age 16-49: 4,545,975 (2008 est.)

Namibia
  males age 16-49: 527,948 (2008 est.)

Nauru
  males age 16-49: 3,470 (2008 est.)

Nepal
  males age 16-49: 7,322,965
  females age 16-49: 6,859,064 (2008 est.)

Netherlands
  males age 16-49: 3,950,825
  females age 16-49: 3,850,800 (2008 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  males age 16-49: 55,365
  females age 16-49: 57,060 (2008 est.)

New Caledonia
  males age 16-49: 57,738 (2008 est.)

New Zealand
  males age 16-49: 1,009,298
  females age 16-49: 997,134 (2008 est.)

Nicaragua
  males age 16-49: 1,513,312
  females age 16-49: 1,507,999 (2008 est.)

Niger
  males age 16-49: 2,871,868
  females age 16-49: 2,696,966 (2008 est.)

Nigeria
  males age 16-49: 31,929,204
  females age 16-49: 30,638,979 (2008 est.)

Norway
  males age 16-49: 1,078,181
  females age 16-49: 1,046,550 (2008 est.)

Oman
  males age 16-49: 802,455
  females age 16-49: 626,841 (2008 est.)

Pakistan
  males age 16-49: 42,633,765
  females age 16-49: 40,114,017 (2008 est.)

Palau
  males age 16-49: 5,973 (2008 est.)

Panama
  males age 16-49: 851,044 (2008 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  males age 16-49: 1,481,417
  females age 16-49: 1,385,040 (2008 est.)

Paraguay
  males age 16-49: 1,589,873
  females age 16-49: 1,585,573 (2008 est.)

Peru
  males age 16-49: 7,653,898
  females age 16-49: 7,531,329 (2008 est.)

Philippines
  males age 16-49: 23,547,252
  females age 16-49: 23,177,487 (2008 est.)

Poland
  males age 16-49: 9,741,508
  females age 16-49: 9,514,843 (2008 est.)

Portugal
  males age 16-49: 2,573,913
  females age 16-49: 2,498,262 (2008 est.)

Qatar
  males age 16-49: 320,383
  females age 16-49: 167,475 (2008 est.)

Romania
  males age 16-49: 5,682,299
  females age 16-49: 5,557,098 (2008 est.)

Russia
  males age 16-49: 36,219,908
  females age 16-49: 37,019,853 (2008 est.)

Rwanda
  males age 16-49: 2,430,469
  females age 16-49: 2,392,933 (2008 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  males age 16-49: 10,095
  females age 16-49: 10,081 (2008 est.)

Saint Lucia
  males age 16-49: 48,358 (2008 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  males age 16-49: 34,373 (2008 est.)

Samoa
  males age 16-49: 53,417 (2008 est.)

San Marino
  males age 16-49: 6,613 (2008 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe
  males age 16-49: 42,340
  females age 16-49: 43,781 (2008 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  males age 16-49: 8,547,441
  females age 16-49: 6,381,098 (2008 est.)

Senegal
  males age 16-49: 2,943,619
  females age 16-49: 2,955,179 (2008 est.)

Seychelles
  males age 16-49: 23,598
  females age 16-49: 24,424 (2008 est.)

Sierra Leone
  males age 16-49: 1,315,561 (2008 est.)

Singapore
  males age 16-49: 1,277,862 (2008 est.)

Slovakia
  males age 16-49: 1,420,966
  females age 16-49: 1,386,259 (2008 est.)

Slovenia
  males age 16-49: 494,496
  females age 16-49: 481,180 (2008 est.)

Solomon Islands
  males age 16-49: 141,051 (2008 est.)

Somalia
  males age 16-49: 2,181,050
  females age 16-49: 2,125,558 (2008 est.)

South Africa
  males age 16-49: 11,622,507
  females age 16-49: 11,501,537 (2008 est.)

Spain
  males age 16-49: 10,033,069
  females age 16-49: 9,764,937 (2008 est.)

Sri Lanka
  males age 16-49: 5,458,720
  females age 16-49: 5,594,006 (2008 est.)

Sudan
  males age 16-49: 9,639,923
  females age 16-49: 9,321,106 (2008 est.)

Suriname
  males age 16-49: 130,534
  females age 16-49: 130,243 (2008 est.)

Swaziland
  males age 16-49: 266,311 (2008 est.)

Sweden
  males age 16-49: 2,052,890
  females age 16-49: 1,980,550 (2008 est.)

Switzerland
  males age 16-49: 1,852,580
  females age 16-49: 1,807,667 (2008 est.)

Syria
  males age 16-49: 5,251,875
  females age 16-49: 4,966,367 (2008 est.)

Taiwan
  males age 16-49: 6,283,134
  females age 16-49: 6,098,599 (2008 est.)

Tajikistan
  males age 16-49: 1,897,356
  females age 16-49: 1,911,594 (2008 est.)

Tanzania
  males age 16-49: 9,108,177 (2008 est.)

Thailand
  males age 16-49: 17,553,410
  females age 16-49: 17,751,268 (2008 est.)

Timor-Leste
  males age 16-49: 284,903
  females age 16-49: 272,212 (2008 est.)

Togo
  males age 16-49: 1,365,505
  females age 16-49: 1,374,993 (2008 est.)

Tonga
  males age 16-49: 32,053
  females age 16-49: 30,981 (2008 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  males age 16-49: 301,561
  females age 16-49: 264,225 (2008 est.)

Tunisia
  males age 16-49: 2,992,249
  females age 16-49: 2,912,819 (2008 est.)

Turkey
  males age 16-49: 20,213,205
  females age 16-49: 19,432,688 (2008 est.)

Turkmenistan
  males age 16-49: 1,316,698
  females age 16-49: 1,331,005 (2008 est.)

Uganda
  males age 16-49: 6,532,894
  females age 16-49: 6,352,416 (2008 est.)

Ukraine
  males age 16-49: 11,457,562
  females age 16-49: 11,767,357 (2008 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  males age 16-49: 2,405,884 (includes
  non-nationals)
  females age 16-49: 884,853 (2008 est.)

United Kingdom
  males age 16-49: 14,729,500
  females age 16-49: 14,125,600 (2008 est.)

United States
  males age 16-49: 72,715,332
  females age 16-49: 71,638,785 (2008 est.)

Uruguay
  males age 16-49: 837,252
  females age 16-49: 824,096 (2008 est.)

Uzbekistan
  males age 16-49: 7,480,484
  females age 16-49: 7,542,017 (2008 est.)

Vanuatu
  males age 16-49: 58,900 (2008 est.)

Venezuela
  males age 16-49: 6,647,124
  females age 16-49: 6,801,133 (2008 est.)

Vietnam
  males age 16-49: 24,586,328
  females age 16-49: 24,335,132 (2008 est.)

Yemen
  males age 16-49: 5,080,038
  females age 16-49: 4,852,555 (2008 est.)

Zambia
  males age 16-49: 2,678,668
  females age 16-49: 2,567,433 (2008 est.)

Zimbabwe
  males age 16-49: 3,264,258
  females age 16-49: 3,048,049 (2008 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2106  Maritime claims


Afghanistan
  none (landlocked)

Albania
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

Algeria
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive fishing zone: 32-52 nm

American Samoa
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Andorra
  none (landlocked)

Angola
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Anguilla
  territorial sea: 3 nm
  exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm

Antarctica
  Australia, Chile, and Argentina claim Exclusive Economic
  Zone (EEZ) rights or similar over 200 nm extensions seaward from
  their continental claims, but like the claims themselves, these
  zones are not accepted by other countries; 21 of 28 Antarctic
  consultative nations have made no claims to Antarctic territory
  (although Russia and the US have reserved the right to do so) and do
  not recognize the claims of the other nations; also see the Disputes
  - international entry

Antigua and Barbuda
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin

Argentina
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin

Armenia
  none (landlocked)

Aruba
  territorial sea: 12 nm

Ashmore and Cartier Islands
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 12 nm
  exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

Australia
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin

Austria
  none (landlocked)

Azerbaijan
  none (landlocked)

Bahamas, The
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Bahrain
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  continental shelf: extending to boundaries to be determined

Bangladesh
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 18 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: up to the outer limits of the continental margin

Barbados
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Belarus
  none (landlocked)

Belgium
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: geographic coordinates define outer limit
  continental shelf: median line with neighbors

Belize
  territorial sea: 12 nm in the north, 3 nm in the south; note
  - from the mouth of the Sarstoon River to Ranguana Cay, Belize's
  territorial sea is 3 nm; according to Belize's Maritime Areas Act,
  1992, the purpose of this limitation is to provide a framework for
  negotiating a definitive agreement on territorial differences with
  Guatemala
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Benin
  territorial sea: 200 nm

Bermuda
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm

Bhutan
  none (landlocked)

Bolivia
  none (landlocked)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  no data available

Botswana
  none (landlocked)

Bouvet Island
  territorial sea: 4 nm

Brazil
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm or to edge of the continental margin

British Indian Ocean Territory
  territorial sea: 3 nm
  exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm

British Virgin Islands
  territorial sea: 3 nm
  exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm

Brunei
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm or to median line

Bulgaria
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Burkina Faso
  none (landlocked)

Burma
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin

Burundi
  none (landlocked)

Cambodia
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm

Cameroon
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm

Canada
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin

Cape Verde
  measured from claimed archipelagic baselines
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Cayman Islands
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm

Central African Republic
  none (landlocked)

Chad
  none (landlocked)

Chile
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200/350 nm

China
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin

Christmas Island
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 12 nm
  exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm

Clipperton Island
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm

Colombia
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

Comoros
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: boundaries with neighbors

Congo, Republic of the
  territorial sea: 200 nm

Cook Islands
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin

Coral Sea Islands
  territorial sea: 3 nm
  exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm

Costa Rica
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm

Cote d'Ivoire
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm

Croatia
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

Cuba
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Cyprus
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

Czech Republic
  none (landlocked)

Denmark
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

Djibouti
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Dominica
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Dominican Republic
  measured from claimed archipelagic straight
  baselines
  territorial sea: 6 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin

Ecuador
  territorial sea: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 100 nm from 2,500-m isobath

Egypt
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 m depth or to the depth of exploitation

El Salvador
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Equatorial Guinea
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Eritrea
  territorial sea: 12 nm

Estonia
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: limits fixed in coordination with
  neighboring states

Ethiopia
  none (landlocked)

European Union
  NA

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm
  exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm

Faroe Islands
  territorial sea: 3 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm or agreed boundaries or median line
  exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm or agreed boundaries or median line

Fiji
  measured from claimed archipelagic straight baselines
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation;
  rectilinear shelf claim added

Finland
  territorial sea: 12 nm (in the Gulf of Finland - 3 nm)
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive fishing zone: 12 nm; extends to continental shelf boundary
  with Sweden
  continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

France
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm (does not apply to the Mediterranean)
  continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

French Polynesia
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm from Iles Kerguelen and Iles Eparses
  (does not include the rest of French Southern and Antarctic Lands);
  Juan de Nova Island and Tromelin Island claim a continental shelf of
  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

Gabon
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Gambia, The
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 18 nm
  exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: extent not specified

Gaza Strip
  Israeli-occupied with current status subject to the
  Israeli-Palestinian Interim Agreement - permanent status to be
  determined through further negotiation

Georgia
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Germany
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

Ghana
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm

Gibraltar
  territorial sea: 3 nm

Greece
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

Greenland
  territorial sea: 3 nm
  exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm or agreed boundaries or median line
  continental shelf: 200 nm or agreed boundaries or median line

Grenada
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Guam
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Guatemala
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

Guernsey
  territorial sea: 3 nm
  exclusive fishing zone: 12 nm

Guinea
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Guinea-Bissau
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Guyana
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm or to the outer edge of the continental
  margin

Haiti
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: to depth of exploitation

Heard Island and McDonald Islands
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm

Holy See (Vatican City)
  none (landlocked)

Honduras
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: natural extension of territory or to 200 nm

Hong Kong
  territorial sea: 3 nm

Hungary
  none (landlocked)

Iceland
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin

India
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin

Indonesia
  measured from claimed archipelagic straight baselines
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Iran
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: bilateral agreements or median lines in the
  Persian Gulf
  continental shelf: natural prolongation

Iraq
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  continental shelf: not specified

Ireland
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm

Isle of Man
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive fishing zone: 12 nm

Israel
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  continental shelf: to depth of exploitation

Italy
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  continental shelf: 200 m depth or to the depth of exploitation

Jamaica
  measured from claimed archipelagic straight baselines
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm or to edge of the continental margin

Jan Mayen
  territorial sea: 4 nm
  contiguous zone: 10 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 m depth or to the depth of exploitation

Japan
  territorial sea: 12 nm; between 3 nm and 12 nm in the
  international straits - La Perouse or Soya, Tsugaru, Osumi, and
  Eastern and Western Channels of the Korea or Tsushima Strait
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Jersey
  territorial sea: 3 nm
  exclusive fishing zone: 12 nm

Jordan
  territorial sea: 3 nm

Kazakhstan
  none (landlocked)

Kenya
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 m depth or to the depth of exploitation

Kiribati
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Korea, North
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  note: military boundary line 50 nm in the Sea of Japan and the
  exclusive economic zone limit in the Yellow Sea where all foreign
  vessels and aircraft without permission are banned

Korea, South
  territorial sea: 12 nm; between 3 nm and 12 nm in the
  Korea Strait
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: not specified

Kosovo
  none (landlocked)

Kuwait
  territorial sea: 12 nm

Kyrgyzstan
  none (landlocked)

Laos
  none (landlocked)

Latvia
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 m depth or to the depth of exploitation

Lebanon
  territorial sea: 12 nm

Lesotho
  none (landlocked)

Liberia
  territorial sea: 200 nm

Libya
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  note: Gulf of Sidra closing line - 32 degrees, 30 minutes north
  exclusive fishing zone: 62 nm

Liechtenstein
  none (landlocked)

Lithuania
  territorial sea: 12 nm

Luxembourg
  none (landlocked)

Macau
  not specified

Macedonia
  none (landlocked)

Madagascar
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm or 100 nm from the 2,500-m isobath

Malawi
  none (landlocked)

Malaysia
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 m depth or to the depth of exploitation;
  specified boundary in the South China Sea

Maldives
  measured from claimed archipelagic straight baselines
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Mali
  none (landlocked)

Malta
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  continental shelf: 200 m depth or to the depth of exploitation
  exclusive fishing zone: 25 nm

Marshall Islands
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Mauritania
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin

Mauritius
  measured from claimed archipelagic straight baselines
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin

Mayotte
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Mexico
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin

Micronesia, Federated States of
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Moldova
  none (landlocked)

Monaco
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 12 nm

Mongolia
  none (landlocked)

Montenegro
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  continental shelf: defined by treaty

Montserrat
  territorial sea: 3 nm
  exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm

Morocco
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 m depth or to the depth of exploitation

Mozambique
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Namibia
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Nauru
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Navassa Island
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Nepal
  none (landlocked)

Netherlands
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm

Netherlands Antilles
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive fishing zone: 12 nm

New Caledonia
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

New Zealand
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin

Nicaragua
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  continental shelf: natural prolongation

Niger
  none (landlocked)

Nigeria
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 m depth or to the depth of exploitation

Niue
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Norfolk Island
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm

Northern Mariana Islands
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Norway
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 10 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm

Oman
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Pakistan
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin

Palau
  territorial sea: 3 nm
  exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm

Panama
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm or edge of continental margin

Papua New Guinea
  measured from claimed archipelagic baselines
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation
  exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm

Paracel Islands
  NA

Paraguay
  none (landlocked)

Peru
  territorial sea: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm

Philippines
  territorial sea: irregular polygon extending up to 100
  nm from coastline as defined by 1898 treaty; since late 1970s has
  also claimed polygonal-shaped area in South China Sea up to 285 nm
  in breadth
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: to depth of exploitation

Pitcairn Islands
  territorial sea: 3 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Poland
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: defined by international treaties

Portugal
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

Puerto Rico
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Qatar
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: as determined by bilateral agreements or
  the median line

Romania
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

Russia
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

Rwanda
  none (landlocked)

Saint Helena
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin

Saint Lucia
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm

Samoa
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

San Marino
  none (landlocked)

Sao Tome and Principe
  measured from claimed archipelagic baselines
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Saudi Arabia
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 18 nm
  continental shelf: not specified

Senegal
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin

Serbia
  none (landlocked)

Seychelles
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin

Sierra Leone
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm

Singapore
  territorial sea: 3 nm
  exclusive fishing zone: within and beyond territorial sea, as
  defined in treaties and practice

Slovakia
  none (landlocked)

Slovenia
  territorial sea: 12 nm

Solomon Islands
  measured from claimed archipelagic baselines
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm

Somalia
  territorial sea: 200 nm

South Africa
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm or to edge of the continental margin

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm

Spain
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm (applies only to the Atlantic Ocean)

Spratly Islands
  NA

Sri Lanka
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin

Sudan
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 18 nm
  continental shelf: 200 m depth or to the depth of exploitation

Suriname
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Svalbard
  territorial sea: 4 nm
  exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm unilaterally claimed by Norway but
  not recognized by Russia

Swaziland
  none (landlocked)

Sweden
  territorial sea: 12 nm (adjustments made to return a portion
  of straits to high seas)
  exclusive economic zone: agreed boundaries or midlines
  continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

Switzerland
  none (landlocked)

Syria
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm

Taiwan
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Tajikistan
  none (landlocked)

Tanzania
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Thailand
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

Timor-Leste
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm

Togo
  territorial sea: 30 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Tokelau
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Tonga
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

Trinidad and Tobago
  measured from claimed archipelagic baselines
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm or to the outer edge of the continental
  margin

Tunisia
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 12 nm

Turkey
  territorial sea: 6 nm in the Aegean Sea; 12 nm in Black Sea
  and in Mediterranean Sea
  exclusive economic zone: in Black Sea only: to the maritime boundary
  agreed upon with the former USSR

Turkmenistan
  none (landlocked)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm

Tuvalu
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Uganda
  none (landlocked)

Ukraine
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200-m or to the depth of exploitation

United Arab Emirates
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin

United Kingdom
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: as defined in continental shelf orders or in
  accordance with agreed upon boundaries

United States
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: not specified

United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Uruguay
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm or edge of continental margin

Uzbekistan
  none (doubly landlocked)

Vanuatu
  measured from claimed archipelagic baselines
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin

Venezuela
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 15 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

Vietnam
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin

Virgin Islands
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Wake Island
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

Wallis and Futuna
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm

West Bank
  none (landlocked)

Western Sahara
  contingent upon resolution of sovereignty issue

World
  a variety of situations exist, but in general, most countries
  make the following claims measured from the mean low-tide baseline
  as described in the 1982 UN Convention on the Law of the Sea:
  territorial sea - 12 nm, contiguous zone - 24 nm, and exclusive
  economic zone - 200 nm; additional zones provide for exploitation of
  continental shelf resources and an exclusive fishing zone; boundary
  situations with neighboring states prevent many countries from
  extending their fishing or economic zones to a full 200 nm

Yemen
  territorial sea: 12 nm
  contiguous zone: 24 nm
  exclusive economic zone: 200 nm
  continental shelf: 200 nm or to the edge of the continental margin

Zambia
  none (landlocked)

Zimbabwe
  none (landlocked)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2107  International organization participation


Afghanistan
  ADB, CP, ECO, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, IDA,
  IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO
  (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, MIGA, NAM, OIC, OPCW, OSCE (partner),
  SAARC, SACEP, SCO (guest), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU,
  WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)

Albania
  BSEC, CE, CEI, EAPC, EBRD, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt,
  ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
  IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITU, ITUC, MIGA, OIC, OIF, OPCW, OSCE,
  PFP, SECI, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNOMIG, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU,
  WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Algeria
  ABEDA, AfDB, AFESD, AMF, AMU, AU, BIS, FAO, G-15, G-24,
  G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD,
  IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO,
  ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAS, MIGA, MONUC, NAM, OAPEC, OAS (observer), OIC,
  OPCW, OPEC, OSCE (partner), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO,
  UNITAR, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)

American Samoa
  Interpol (subbureau), IOC, SPC, UPU

Andorra
  CE, FAO, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IFRCS, Interpol, IOC, IPU, ITU,
  OIF, OPCW, OSCE, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, Union Latina, UNWTO, WCO, WHO,
  WIPO, WTO (observer)

Angola
  ACP, AfDB, AU, CPLP, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt
  (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol,
  IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OAS
  (observer), OPEC, SADC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union Latina,
  UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Anguilla
  Caricom (associate), CDB, Interpol (subbureau), OECS, UPU,
  WFTU

Antigua and Barbuda
  ACP, C, Caricom, CDB, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, ISO
  (subscriber), ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OAS, OECS, OPANAL, OPCW, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Argentina
  AfDB (nonregional members), Australia Group, BCIE, BIS,
  CAN (associate), FAO, G-15, G-24, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
  ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES, LAIA, Mercosur,
  MIGA, MINURSO, MINUSTAH, NSG, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN,
  UNASUR, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNIDO, Union Latina
  (observer), UNTSO, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO,
  ZC

Armenia
  ACCT (observer), ADB, BSEC, CE, CIS, CSTO, EAEC (observer),
  EAPC, EBRD, FAO, GCTU, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt (signatory), ICRM,
  IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO,
  ITU, MIGA, NAM (observer), OAS (observer), OIF (associate member),
  OPCW, OSCE, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU,
  WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Aruba
  Caricom (observer), ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC, ITUC, UNESCO
  (associate), UNWTO (associate), UPU, WCL, WFTU, WMO

Australia
  ADB, ANZUS, APEC, ARF, ASEAN (dialogue partner), Australia
  Group, BIS, C, CP, EAS, EBRD, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt,
  ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC,
  IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM (guest), NEA, NSG, OECD,
  OPCW, Paris Club, PCA, PIF, SAARC (observer), Sparteca, SPC, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNMIS, UNMIT, UNRWA, UNTSO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO,
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC

Austria
  ACCT (observer), ADB (nonregional members), AfDB
  (nonregional members), Australia Group, BIS, BSEC (observer), CE,
  CEI, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EMU, ESA, EU, FAO, G-9, IADB, IAEA,
  IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF,
  IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURSO,
  NAM (guest), NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OIF (observer), OPCW,
  OSCE, Paris Club, PCA, PFP, Schengen Convention, SECI (observer),
  UN, UNCTAD, UNDOF, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNOMIG, UNTSO,
  UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WEU (observer), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC

Azerbaijan
  ADB, BSEC, CE, CIS, EAPC, EBRD, ECO, FAO, GCTU, GUAM,
  IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM (observer),
  OAS (observer), OIC, OPCW, OSCE, PFP, SECI (observer), UN, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)

Bahamas, The
  ACP, C, Caricom, CDB, FAO, G-77, IADB, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt
  (signatory), ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ITSO, ITU, LAES, MIGA, NAM, OAS, OPANAL,
  OPCW (signatory), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU,
  WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)

Bahrain
  ABEDA, AFESD, AMF, FAO, G-77, GCC, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt
  (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAS, MIGA,
  NAM, OAPEC, OIC, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU,
  WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Bangladesh
  ADB, ARF, BIMSTEC, C, CP, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICC, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO,
  IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA,
  MINURCAT, MINURSO, MONUC, NAM, OIC, OPCW, SAARC, SACEP, UN, UNAMID,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNMIT, UNOCI, UNOMIG,
  UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Barbados
  ACP, C, Caricom, CDB, FAO, G-77, IADB, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt,
  ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, ISO,
  ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES, MIGA, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Belarus
  BSEC (observer), CEI, CIS, CSTO, EAEC, EAPC, EBRD, FAO,
  GCTU, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMSO,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, NSG, OPCW, OSCE,
  PCA, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO,
  WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)

Belgium
  ACCT, ADB (nonregional members), AfDB (nonregional members),
  Australia Group, Benelux, BIS, CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EMU, ESA,
  EU, FAO, G-9, G-10, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA,
  IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
  IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MONUC, NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS
  (observer), OECD, OIF, OPCW, OSCE, Paris Club, PCA, Schengen
  Convention, SECI (observer), UN, UN Security Council (temporary),
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNMIS, UNRWA, UNTSO, UPU, WADB
  (nonregional), WCL, WCO, WEU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC

Belize
  ACP, C, Caricom, CDB, FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC,
  IOM, ITU, ITUC, LAES, MIGA, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Benin
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, AU, ECOWAS, Entente, FAO, FZ, G-77, IAEA,
  IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA,
  MONUC, NAM, OAS (observer), OIC, OIF, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
  UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WADB (regional),
  WAEMU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Bermuda
  Caricom (associate), Interpol (subbureau), IOC, ITUC, UPU,
  WCO, WFTU

Bhutan
  ADB, BIMSTEC, CP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IMF,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, NAM,
  OPCW, SAARC, SACEP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO,
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)

Bolivia
  CAN, FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA,
  IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO
  (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, LAES, LAIA, Mercosur (associate), MIGA,
  MINURCAT, MINUSTAH, MONUC, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN,
  UNASUR, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNMIL, UNMIS,
  UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  BIS, CE, CEI, EAPC, EBRD, FAO, G-77, IAEA,
  IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MONUC, NAM
  (observer), OAS (observer), OIC (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PFP, SECI,
  UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
  WTO (observer)

Botswana
  ACP, AfDB, AU, C, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM,
  IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU,
  ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OPCW, SACU, SADC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIS,
  UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Brazil
  AfDB (nonregional members), BIS, CAN (associate), CPLP, FAO,
  G-15, G-24, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA,
  IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU,
  ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES, LAIA, Mercosur, MIGA, MINURCAT, MINURSO,
  MINUSTAH, NAM (observer), NSG, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN,
  UNASUR, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNITAR,
  UNMIL, UNMIS, UNMIT, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
  WMO, WTO

British Virgin Islands
  Caricom (associate), CDB, Interpol
  (subbureau), IOC, OECS, UNESCO (associate), UPU, WFTU

Brunei
  ADB, APEC, APT, ARF, ASEAN, C, EAS, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM,
  IDB, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, ISO (correspondent),
  ITSO, ITU, NAM, OIC, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO,
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Bulgaria
  ACCT, Australia Group, BIS, BSEC, CE, CEI, CERN, EAPC,
  EBRD, EIB, EU (new member), FAO, G- 9, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt,
  ICRM, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO,
  ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM (guest), NATO, NSG, OAS (observer), OIF,
  OPCW, OSCE, PCA, SECI, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNMIS,
  UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WEU (associate affiliate), WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
  WMO, WTO, ZC

Burkina Faso
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, AU, ECOWAS, Entente, FAO, FZ, G-77,
  IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO,
  IMF, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC,
  MIGA, MONUC, NAM, OIC, OIF, OPCW, PCA, UN, UN Security Council
  (temporary), UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNITAR, UNMIS, UNOCI,
  UNWTO, UPU, WADB (regional), WAEMU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
  WTO

Burma
  ADB, APT, ARF, ASEAN, BIMSTEC, CP, EAS, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol,
  IOC, ISO (correspondent), ITU, NAM, OPCW (signatory), SAARC
  (observer), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
  WMO, WTO

Burundi
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, AU, CEPGL, COMESA, EAC, FAO, G-77, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC,
  IOM, IPU, ISO (subscriber), ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OIF, OPCW, UN,
  UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
  WMO, WTO

Cambodia
  ACCT, ADB, APT, ARF, ASEAN, EAS, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC,
  IOM, IPU, ISO (subscriber), ITU, MIGA, NAM, OIF, OPCW, PCA, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIS, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
  WTO

Cameroon
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, AU, BDEAC, C, CEMAC, FAO, FZ, G-77, IAEA,
  IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
  ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent),
  ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OIC, OIF, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
  UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Canada
  ACCT, ADB (nonregional members), AfDB (nonregional members),
  APEC, Arctic Council, ARF, ASEAN (dialogue partner), Australia
  Group, BIS, C, CDB, CE (observer), EAPC, EBRD, ESA (cooperating
  state), FAO, G-7, G-8, G-10, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt,
  ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINUSTAH,
  MONUC, NAFTA, NAM (guest), NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS, OECD, OIF, OPCW,
  OSCE, Paris Club, PCA, PIF (partner), SECI (observer), UN, UNAMID,
  UNCTAD, UNDOF, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNMIS, UNRWA, UNTSO, UNWTO,
  UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC

Cape Verde
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, AU, CPLP, ECOWAS, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OIF, OPCW, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO,
  WIPO, WMO, WTO

Cayman Islands
  Caricom (associate), CDB, Interpol (subbureau), IOC,
  UNESCO (associate), UPU, WFTU

Central African Republic
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, AU, BDEAC, CEMAC, FAO, FZ,
  G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF,
  Interpol, IOC, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OIC (observer), OIF,
  OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO,
  WIPO, WMO, WTO

Chad
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, AU, BDEAC, CEMAC, FAO, FZ, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol,
  IOC, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OIC, OIF, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
  UNIDO, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Chile
  APEC, BIS, CAN (associate), FAO, G-15, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICC, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO,
  IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES,
  LAIA, Mercosur (associate), MIGA, MINUSTAH, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW,
  PCA, RG, UN, UNASUR, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, Union Latina,
  UNMOGIP, UNTSO, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

China
  ADB, AfDB (nonregional members), APEC, APT, Arctic Council
  (observer), ARF, ASEAN (dialogue partner), BIS, CDB, EAS, FAO, G-24
  (observer), G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
  IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), IPU,
  ISO, ITSO, ITU, LAIA (observer), MIGA, MINURSO, MONUC, NAM
  (observer), NSG, OAS (observer), OPCW, PCA, PIF (partner), SAARC
  (observer), SCO, UN, UN Security Council, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
  UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNITAR, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNMIT, UNOCI, UNTSO,
  UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC

Christmas Island
  none

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  none

Colombia
  BCIE, CAN, Caricom (observer), CDB, FAO, G-3, G-24, G-77,
  IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO,
  ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC,
  LAES, LAIA, Mercosur (associate), MIGA, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA,
  RG, UN, UNASUR, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNWTO,
  UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Comoros
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, AMF, AU, COMESA, FAO, FZ, G-77, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, InOC,
  Interpol, IOC, IPU, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAS, NAM, OIC, OIF, OPCW, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, AU, CEPGL,
  COMESA, FAO, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD,
  IFC, IFRCS, IHO (suspended), ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU,
  ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OIF, OPCW, PCA, SADC, UN, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Congo, Republic of the
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, AU, BDEAC, CEMAC, FAO, FZ,
  G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OIF, OPCW, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNITAR, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO,
  WIPO, WMO, WTO

Cook Islands
  ACP, ADB, FAO, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IFAD, IFRCS, IMSO,
  IOC, ITUC, OPCW, PIF, Sparteca, SPC, UNESCO, UPU, WHO, WMO

Costa Rica
  BCIE, CACM, FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt,
  ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC,
  IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES, LAIA (observer), MIGA, NAM
  (observer), OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN, UN Security Council
  (temporary), UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNWTO, UPU,
  WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Cote d'Ivoire
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, AU, ECOWAS, Entente, FAO, FZ, G-24,
  G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC,
  IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ITSO, ITU, ITUC,
  MIGA, NAM, OIC, OIF, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, Union
  Latina, UNWTO, UPU, WADB (regional), WAEMU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO,
  WIPO, WMO, WTO

Croatia
  ACCT (observer), Australia Group, BIS, BSEC (observer), CE,
  CEI, EAPC, EBRD, FAO, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA,
  IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU,
  ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURSO, MINUSTAH, NAM (observer), NSG,
  OAS (observer), OIF (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PCA, PFP, SECI, UN, UN
  Security Council (temporary), UNCTAD, UNDOF, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNIDO,
  UNIFIL, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNMOGIP, UNOCI, UNOMIG, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU,
  WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC

Cuba
  ACP, FAO, G-77, IAEA, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IFAD, IFRCS, IHO, ILO,
  IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, LAES,
  LAIA, NAM, OAS (excluded from formal participation since 1962),
  OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNITAR,
  UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Cyprus
  Australia Group, C, CE, EBRD, EIB, EMU, EU, FAO, IAEA, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICC, ICCt, IFAD, IFC, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC,
  IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM (guest), NSG, OAS
  (observer), OIF (associate member), OPCW, OSCE, PCA, UN, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
  WMO, WTO

Czech Republic
  ACCT (observer), Australia Group, BIS, BSEC
  (observer), CE, CEI, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, ESA (cooperating state),
  EU, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IEA,
  IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO,
  ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MONUC, NAM (guest), NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer),
  OECD, OIF (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PCA, Schengen Convention, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNOMIG, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WEU
  (associate), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC

Denmark
  ADB (nonregional members), AfDB (nonregional members),
  Arctic Council, Australia Group, BIS, CBSS, CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD,
  EIB, ESA, EU, FAO, G-9, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM,
  IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC,
  IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MONUC, NATO, NC, NEA, NIB,
  NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, Paris Club, PCA, Schengen
  Convention, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNMOGIP,
  UNOMIG, UNRWA, UNTSO, UPU, WCO, WEU (observer), WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
  WMO, WTO, ZC

Djibouti
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, AFESD, AMF, AU, COMESA, FAO, G-77, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IGAD, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Interpol, IOC, ITU, ITUC, LAS, MIGA, MINURSO, NAM, OIC, OIF, OPCW,
  UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Dominica
  ACCT, ACP, C, Caricom, CDB, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICCt, ICRM,
  IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, ISO
  (subscriber), ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OAS, OECS, OIF, OPANAL, OPCW,
  UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Dominican Republic
  ACP, BCIE, Caricom (observer), FAO, G-77, IADB,
  IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO
  (suspended), ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO
  (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES, LAIA (observer), MIGA, NAM,
  OAS, OPANAL, OPCW (signatory), PCA, RG, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
  Union Latina, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Ecuador
  CAN, FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM,
  IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU,
  ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES, LAIA, Mercosur (associate), MIGA,
  MINURCAT, MINUSTAH, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, OPEC, PCA, RG, UN,
  UNASUR, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNMIL, UNMIS,
  UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Egypt
  ABEDA, ACCT, AfDB, AFESD, AMF, AU, BSEC (observer), CAEU,
  COMESA, EBRD, FAO, G-15, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt
  (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, LAS, MIGA, MINURCAT,
  MINURSO, MONUC, NAM, OAPEC, OAS (observer), OIC, OIF, OSCE
  (partner), PCA, UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIL,
  UNMIS, UNOMIG, UNRWA, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

El Salvador
  BCIE, CACM, FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
  ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU,
  ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURSO, NAM (observer),
  OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIFIL, Union
  Latina, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
  WMO, WTO

Equatorial Guinea
  ACP, AfDB, AU, BDEAC, CEMAC, CPLP (associate),
  FAO, FZ, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF,
  IMO, Interpol, IOC, ITSO, ITU, MIGA, NAM, OAS (observer), OIF, OPCW,
  UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WTO
  (observer)

Eritrea
  ACP, AfDB, AU, COMESA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt
  (signatory), IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS (observer), ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Interpol, IOC, ISO (correspondent), ITU, ITUC, LAS (observer), MIGA,
  NAM, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU,
  WHO, WIPO, WMO

Estonia
  Australia Group, BA, BIS, CBSS, CE, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EU,
  FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF,
  IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITU, ITUC, MIGA,
  NATO, NIB, NSG, OAS (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PCA, Schengen
  Convention, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNITAR, UNTSO, UPU, WCO, WEU
  (associate partner), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Ethiopia
  ACP, AfDB, AU, COMESA, FAO, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IGAD, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM
  (observer), IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OPCW, PCA, UN,
  UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCO,
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)

European Union
  European Union: ARF (dialogue member), ASEAN
  (dialogue member), IDA, OAS (observer), PIF (partner), SAARC
  (observer), UN (observer)
  European Community: Australian Group, CBSS, CERN, FAO, EBRD, G-10,
  LAIA, NSG (observer), OECD, UNRWA, WCO, WTO, ZC (observer)
  European Central Bank: BIS
  European Investment Bank: EBRD, WADB (nonregional member)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  UPU

Faroe Islands
  Arctic Council, FAO, IMO (associate), NC, NIB, UPU

Fiji
  ACP, ADB, C (suspended), CP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM,
  IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, ISO, ITSO,
  ITU, ITUC, MIGA, OPCW, PCA, PIF, Sparteca, SPC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
  UNIDO, UNMIS, UNMIT, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Finland
  ADB (nonregional members), AfDB (nonregional members),
  Arctic Council, Australia Group, BIS, CBSS, CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD,
  EIB, EMU, ESA, EU, FAO, G-9, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt,
  ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM (guest),
  NC, NEA, NIB, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, Paris Club,
  PCA, PFP, Schengen Convention, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO,
  UNMIL, UNMIS, UNMOGIP, UNTSO, UPU, WCO, WEU (observer), WFTU, WHO,
  WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC

France
  ADB (nonregional members), AfDB (nonregional members), Arctic
  Council (observer), Australia Group, BDEAC, BIS, BSEC (observer),
  CBSS (observer), CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EMU, ESA, EU, FAO, FZ,
  G-5, G-7, G-8, G-10, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA,
  IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, InOC, Interpol,
  IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURCAT, MINURSO,
  MINUSTAH, MONUC, NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OIF, OPCW,
  OSCE, Paris Club, PCA, PIF (partner), Schengen Convention, SECI
  (observer), SPC, UN, UN Security Council, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
  UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, Union Latina, UNITAR, UNMIL, UNOCI, UNOMIG,
  UNRWA, UNTSO, UNWTO, UPU, WADB (nonregional), WCL, WCO, WEU, WFTU,
  WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC

French Polynesia
  FZ, ITUC, PIF (associate member), SPC, UPU, WMO

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  UPU

Gabon
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, AU, BDEAC, CEMAC, FAO, FZ, G-24, G-77, IAEA,
  IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC,
  MIGA, MINURCAT, NAM, OIC, OIF, OPCW, UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
  UNIDO, UNMIS, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Gambia, The
  ABEDA, ACP, AfDB, AU, C, ECOWAS, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol,
  IOC, IOM, IPU, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURCAT, NAM, OIC, OPCW, UN,
  UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO,
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Georgia
  ACCT (observer), ADB, BSEC, CE, CIS, EAPC, EBRD, FAO, GCTU,
  GUAM, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO,
  IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU,
  ITUC, MIGA, OAS (observer), OIF (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PFP, SECI
  (observer), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO,
  WIPO, WMO, WTO

Germany
  ADB (nonregional members), AfDB (nonregional members),
  Arctic Council (observer), Australia Group, BIS, BSEC (observer),
  CBSS, CDB, CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EMU, ESA, EU, FAO, G-5, G-7,
  G-8, G-10, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD,
  IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO,
  ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM (guest), NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer),
  OECD, OPCW, OSCE, Paris Club, PCA, Schengen Convention, SECI
  (observer), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNMIL, UNMIS,
  UNOMIG, UNRWA, UNWTO, UPU, WADB (nonregional), WCO, WEU, WFTU, WHO,
  WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC

Ghana
  ACP, AfDB, AU, C, ECOWAS, FAO, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURCAT,
  MINURSO, MONUC, NAM, OAS (observer), OIF (associate member), OPCW,
  UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNITAR, UNMIL,
  UNOCI, UNOMIG, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Gibraltar
  Interpol (subbureau), UPU

Greece
  Australia Group, BIS, BSEC, CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EMU,
  ESA, EU, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD,
  IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO,
  ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURSO, NAM (guest), NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS
  (observer), OECD, OIF, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, Schengen Convention, SECI,
  UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNMIS, UNOMIG, UNWTO, UPU,
  WCO, WEU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC

Greenland
  Arctic Council, NC, NIB, UPU

Grenada
  ACP, C, Caricom, CDB, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA,
  IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, ITU, ITUC, MIGA,
  NAM, OAS, OECS, OPANAL, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU,
  WHO, WIPO, WTO

Guam
  IOC, SPC, UPU

Guatemala
  BCIE, CACM, FAO, G-24, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
  ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
  IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES, LAIA (observer),
  MIGA, MINUSTAH, MONUC, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIFIL, Union Latina, UNMIS, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCL,
  WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Guernsey
  UPU

Guinea
  ACP, AfDB, AU, ECOWAS, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM,
  IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU,
  ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURSO, NAM, OIC, OIF,
  OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIS, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU,
  WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Guinea-Bissau
  ACP, AfDB, AU, CPLP, ECOWAS, FAO, FZ, G-77, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF,
  IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OIC, OIF, OPCW,
  UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNWTO, UPU, WADB
  (regional), WAEMU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Guyana
  ACP, C, Caricom, CDB, FAO, G-77, IADB, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt,
  ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM
  (observer), ISO (subscriber), ITU, ITUC, LAES, MIGA, NAM, OAS, OIC,
  OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN, UNASUR, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL,
  WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Haiti
  ACP, Caricom, CDB, FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt
  (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol,
  IOC, IOM, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES, MIGA, NAM, OAS, OIF, OPANAL, OPCW,
  PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO,
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Holy See (Vatican City)
  CE (observer), IAEA, Interpol, IOM
  (observer), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, NAM (guest), OAS (observer), OPCW,
  OSCE, UN (observer), UNCTAD, UNHCR, Union Latina (observer), UNWTO
  (observer), UPU, WFTU, WIPO, WTO (observer)

Honduras
  BCIE, CACM, FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM,
  IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO
  (subscriber), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES, LAIA (observer), MIGA, MINURSO,
  NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union
  Latina, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Hong Kong
  ADB, APEC, BIS, ICC, IHO, IMF, IMO (associate), IOC, ISO
  (correspondent), ITUC, UNWTO (associate), UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WMO,
  WTO

Hungary
  Australia Group, BIS, CE, CEI, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, ESA
  (cooperating state), EU, FAO, G-9, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt,
  ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
  IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURSO, NAM (guest), NATO, NEA,
  NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OIF (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PCA, Schengen
  Convention, SECI, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL,
  UNOMIG, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WEU (associate), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
  WTO, ZC

Iceland
  Arctic Council, Australia Group, BIS, CBSS, CE, EAPC, EBRD,
  EFTA, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
  IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC,
  MIGA, NATO, NC, NEA, NIB, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA,
  Schengen Convention, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU, WCO, WEU (associate),
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

India
  ADB, AfDB (nonregional members), ARF, ASEAN (dialogue
  partner), BIMSTEC, BIS, C, CERN (observer), CP, EAS, FAO, G-15,
  G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO,
  ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC,
  LAS (observer), MIGA, MONUC, NAM, OAS (observer), OPCW, PCA, PIF
  (partner), SAARC, SACEP, SCO (observer), UN, UNCTAD, UNDOF, UNESCO,
  UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNITAR, UNMIS, UNMIT, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCL,
  WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Indonesia
  ADB, APEC, APT, ARF, ASEAN, BIS, CP, EAS, FAO, G-15, G-77,
  IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO,
  IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU,
  ITUC, MIGA, MONUC, NAM, OIC, OPCW, OPEC, PIF (partner), UN, UN
  Security Council (temporary), UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIFIL,
  UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOMIG, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Iran
  CP, ECO, FAO, G-15, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt
  (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, MIGA, NAM, OIC, OPCW,
  OPEC, PCA, SAARC (observer), SCO (observer), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
  UNHCR, UNIDO, UNITAR, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
  WTO (observer)

Iraq
  ABEDA, AFESD (suspended), AMF, CAEU, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO,
  Interpol, IOC, ISO, ITSO, ITU, LAS, MIGA, NAM, OAPEC, OIC, OPEC,
  PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
  WMO, WTO (observer)

Ireland
  ADB (nonregional members), Australia Group, BIS, CE, EAPC,
  EBRD, EIB, EMU, ESA, EU, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM,
  IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
  IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURSO, MONUC, NEA, NSG, OAS
  (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, Paris Club, PCA, PFP, UN, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNMIL, UNOCI, UNTSO, UPU, WCO, WEU
  (observer), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC

Isle of Man
  UPU

Israel
  BIS, BSEC (observer), CERN (observer), EBRD, FAO, IADB, IAEA,
  IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO,
  IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA,
  OAS (observer), OPCW (signatory), OSCE (partner), PCA, SECI
  (observer), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU,
  WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Italy
  ADB (nonregional members), AfDB (nonregional members), Arctic
  Council (observer), Australia Group, BIS, BSEC (observer), CBSS
  (observer), CDB, CE, CEI, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EMU, ESA, EU, FAO,
  G-7, G-8, G-10, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IEA,
  IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU,
  ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAIA (observer), MIGA, MINURSO, NAM (guest),
  NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, Paris Club, PCA,
  Schengen Convention, SECI (observer), UN, UN Security Council
  (temporary), UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, Union Latina,
  UNMOGIP, UNRWA, UNTSO, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WEU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
  WMO, WTO, ZC

Jamaica
  ACP, C, Caricom, CDB, FAO, G-15, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITSO, ITU, LAES, MIGA, NAM, OAS, OPANAL,
  OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
  WMO, WTO

Japan
  ADB, AfDB (nonregional members), APEC, APT, ARF, ASEAN
  (dialogue partner), Australia Group, BIS, CE (observer), CERN
  (observer), CP, EAS, EBRD, FAO, G-5, G-7, G-8, G-10, IADB, IAEA,
  IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO,
  IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAIA,
  MIGA, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE (partner), Paris
  Club, PCA, PIF (partner), SAARC (observer), SECI (observer), UN,
  UNCTAD, UNDOF, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNITAR, UNRWA, UNWTO, UPU, WCL,
  WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC

Jordan
  ABEDA, AFESD, AMF, CAEU, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
  ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol,
  IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAS, MIGA, MINURCAT, MINUSTAH,
  MONUC, NAM, OIC, OPCW, OSCE (partner), PCA, UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOCI, UNOMIG, UNRWA, UNWTO,
  UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Kazakhstan
  ADB, CIS, CSTO, EAEC, EAPC, EBRD, ECO, FAO, GCTU, IAEA,
  IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, MIGA, NAM (observer), NSG,
  OAS (observer), OIC, OPCW, OSCE, PFP, SCO, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
  UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)

Kenya
  ACP, AfDB, AU, C, COMESA, EAC, EADB, FAO, G-15, G-77, IAEA,
  IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IGAD, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURSO,
  MONUC, NAM, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO,
  UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Kiribati
  ACP, ADB, C, FAO, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
  ILO, IMF, IMO, IOC, ITU, ITUC, OPCW, PIF, Sparteca, SPC, UN, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UPU, WHO, WMO

Korea, North
  ARF, FAO, G-77, ICAO, ICRM, IFAD, IFRCS, IHO, IMO, IOC,
  IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, NAM, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU,
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO

Korea, South
  ADB, AfDB (nonregional members), APEC, APT, ARF, ASEAN
  (dialogue partner), Australia Group, BIS, CP, EAS, EBRD, FAO, IADB,
  IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO,
  ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC,
  LAIA, MIGA, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE (partner),
  PCA, PIF (partner), SAARC (observer), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR,
  UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNMOGIP, UNOMIG, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO,
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC

Kosovo
  ITUC, WFTU

Kuwait
  ABEDA, AfDB (nonregional members), AFESD, AMF, BDEAC, CAEU,
  FAO, G-77, GCC, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA,
  IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IPU,
  ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAS, MIGA, NAM, OAPEC, OIC, OPCW, OPEC, PCA,
  UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNITAR, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
  WMO, WTO

Kyrgyzstan
  ADB, CIS, CSTO, EAEC, EAPC, EBRD, ECO, FAO, GCTU, IAEA,
  IBRD, ICAO, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO,
  IMF, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, MIGA,
  MINURCAT, NAM (observer), OIC, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, PFP, SCO, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO,
  WIPO, WMO, WTO

Laos
  ADB, APT, ARF, ASEAN, CP, EAS, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM,
  IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC, IPU, ISO
  (subscriber), ITU, MIGA, NAM, OIF, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
  UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)

Latvia
  Australia Group, BA, BIS, CBSS, CE, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EU, FAO,
  IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITU, ITUC, MIGA,
  NATO, NIB, NSG, OAS (observer), OIF (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PCA,
  Schengen Convention, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WEU
  (associate partner), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Lebanon
  ABEDA, ACCT, AFESD, AMF, FAO, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICC, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO,
  Interpol, IOC, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, LAS, MIGA, NAM, OAS (observer),
  OIC, OIF, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNRWA, UNWTO, UPU,
  WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)

Lesotho
  ACP, AfDB, AU, C, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA,
  IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC, IPU, ISO (subscriber),
  ITU, MIGA, NAM, OPCW, SACU, SADC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO,
  UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Liberia
  ACP, AfDB, AU, ECOWAS, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt,
  ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC,
  IOM, IPU, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
  UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)

Libya
  ABEDA, AfDB, AFESD, AMF, AMU, AU, CAEU, COMESA, FAO, G-77,
  IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, LAS, MIGA, NAM,
  OAPEC, OIC, OPCW, OPEC, PCA, UN, UN Security Council (temporary),
  UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO,
  WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)

Liechtenstein
  CE, EBRD, EFTA, IAEA, ICCt, ICRM, IFRCS, Interpol,
  IOC, IPU, ITSO, ITU, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UPU, WCL, WIPO, WTO

Lithuania
  Australia Group, BA, BIS, CBSS, CE, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EU,
  FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF,
  IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NATO, NIB, NSG,
  OIF (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PCA, Schengen Convention, UN, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNIDO, UNOMIG, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WEU (associate
  partner), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Luxembourg
  ADB (nonregional members), Australia Group, Benelux, CE,
  EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EMU, ESA, EU, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt,
  ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
  IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer),
  OECD, OIF, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, Schengen Convention, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
  UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNRWA, UPU, WCL, WCO, WEU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
  WMO, WTO, ZC

Macau
  IHO, IMF, IMO (associate), ISO (correspondent), UNESCO
  (associate), UNWTO (associate), UPU, WCO, WFTU, WMO, WTO

Macedonia
  BIS, CE, CEI, EAPC, EBRD, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt,
  ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM
  (observer), IPU, ISO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, OIF, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, PFP,
  SECI, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNWTO, UPU, WCL,
  WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Madagascar
  ACP, AfDB, AU, COMESA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
  ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, InOC, Interpol,
  IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OIF,
  OPCW, SADC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO,
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Malawi
  ACP, AfDB, AU, C, COMESA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt,
  ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, ISO
  (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MONUC, NAM, OPCW, SADC, UN,
  UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO,
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Malaysia
  ADB, APEC, APT, ARF, ASEAN, BIS, C, CP, EAS, FAO, G-15,
  G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO,
  ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA,
  MINURSO, MONUC, NAM, OIC, OPCW, PCA, PIF (partner), UN, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNMIT, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO,
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Maldives
  ADB, C, CP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC,
  IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IPU, ITU, MIGA, NAM, OIC, OPCW, SAARC,
  SACEP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
  WMO, WTO

Mali
  ACP, AfDB, AU, ECOWAS, FAO, FZ, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt,
  ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU,
  ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURCAT, MONUC, NAM, OIC, OIF, OPCW, UN,
  UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNWTO, UPU, WADB
  (regional), WAEMU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Malta
  Australia Group, C, CE, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EMU, EU, FAO, IAEA,
  IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NSG, OPCW,
  OSCE, PCA, PFP, Schengen Convention, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
  UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Marshall Islands
  ACP, ADB, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, IDA,
  IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, ITU, OPCW, PIF, Sparteca,
  SPC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, WHO

Mauritania
  ABEDA, ACP, AfDB, AFESD, AMF, AMU, AU, CAEU, FAO, G-77,
  IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAS, MIGA, NAM, OIC, OIF,
  OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO,
  WIPO, WMO, WTO

Mauritius
  ACP, AfDB, AU, C, COMESA, CPLP (associate), FAO, G-77,
  IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF,
  IMO, IMSO, InOC, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC,
  MIGA, NAM, OIF, OPCW, PCA, SAARC (observer), SADC, UN, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Mayotte
  InOC, UPU, WFTU

Mexico
  APEC, BCIE, BIS, CAN (observer), Caricom (observer), CDB, CE
  (observer), CSN (observer), EBRD, FAO, G-3, G-15, G-24, IADB, IAEA,
  IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF,
  IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES,
  LAIA, MIGA, NAFTA, NAM (observer), NEA, OAS, OECD, OPANAL, OPCW,
  PCA, RG, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNWTO, UPU,
  WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Micronesia, Federated States of
  ACP, ADB, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICRM, IDA, IFC, IFRCS, IMF, IOC, ITSO, ITU, MIGA, OPCW, PIF,
  Sparteca, SPC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, WHO, WMO

Moldova
  BSEC, CE, CEI, CIS, EAEC (observer), EAPC, EBRD, FAO, GCTU,
  GUAM, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt (signatory), IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
  ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITU,
  MIGA, OIF, OPCW, OSCE, PFP, SECI, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union
  Latina, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOCI, UNOMIG, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO,
  WIPO, WMO, WTO

Monaco
  CE, FAO, IAEA, ICAO, ICC, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IFRCS, IHO,
  IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IPU, ITSO, ITU, OIF, OPCW, OSCE, Schengen
  Convention, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNWTO, UPU,
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO

Mongolia
  ADB, ARF, CP, EBRD, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt,
  ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU,
  ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURSO, MONUC, NAM, OPCW, OSCE
  (partner), SCO (observer), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNMIS,
  UNOMIG, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Montenegro
  CE, CEI, EAPC, EBRD, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM,
  IDA, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO
  (correspondent), ITU, ITUC, MIGA, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, PFP, SECI, UN,
  UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
  WTO (observer)

Montserrat
  Caricom, CDB, Interpol (subbureau), OECS, UPU, WFTU

Morocco
  ABEDA, AfDB, AFESD, AMF, AMU, EBRD, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICC, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO,
  ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC,
  LAS, MIGA, MONUC, NAM, OAS (observer), OIC, OIF, OPCW, OSCE
  (partner), PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU,
  WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Mozambique
  ACP, AfDB, AU, C, CPLP, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt
  (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITSO,
  ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MONUC, NAM, OIC, OIF (observer), OPCW, SADC, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNMIS, UNWTO, UPU, WCO,
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Namibia
  ACP, AfDB, AU, C, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM,
  IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer),
  IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, MIGA, NAM, OPCW, SACU, SADC,
  UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOCI,
  UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Nauru
  ACP, ADB, C, FAO, ICAO, ICCt, Interpol, IOC, ITU, OPCW, PIF,
  Sparteca, SPC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU, WHO

Nepal
  ADB, BIMSTEC, CP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA, IFAD,
  IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO
  (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURCAT, MINUSTAH, MONUC,
  NAM, OPCW, SAARC, SACEP, UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIFIL,
  UNMIL, UNMIS, UNMIT, UNOCI, UNOMIG, UNTSO, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO,
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Netherlands
  ADB (nonregional members), AfDB (nonregional members),
  Arctic Council (observer), Australia Group, Benelux, BIS, CBSS
  (observer), CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EMU, ESA, EU, FAO, G-10,
  IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
  IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU,
  ITUC, MIGA, NAM (guest), NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW,
  OSCE, Paris Club, PCA, Schengen Convention, SECI (observer), UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIS, UNRWA, UNTSO, UNWTO, UPU, WCL,
  WCO, WEU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC

Netherlands Antilles
  Caricom (observer), ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC,
  UNESCO (associate), UNWTO (associate), UPU, WCL, WCO, WMO

New Caledonia
  ITUC, PIF (associate member), SPC, UPU, WFTU, WMO

New Zealand
  ADB, ANZUS (US suspended security obligations to NZ on
  11 August 1986), APEC, ARF, ASEAN (dialogue partner), Australia
  Group, BIS, C, CP, EAS, EBRD, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt,
  ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, NAM (guest), NSG,
  OECD, OPCW, PCA, PIF, Sparteca, SPC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR,
  UNIDO, UNMIS, UNMIT, UNTSO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Nicaragua
  BCIE, CACM, FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA,
  IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ITSO, ITU,
  ITUC, LAES, LAIA (observer), MIGA, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG,
  UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNWTO, UPU, WCL,
  WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Niger
  ACP, AfDB, AU, ECOWAS, Entente, FAO, FZ, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol,
  IOC, IOM, IPU, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MONUC, NAM, OIC, OIF, OPCW, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WADB (regional),
  WAEMU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Nigeria
  ACP, AfDB, AU, C, ECOWAS, FAO, G-15, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF,
  IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA,
  MINURCAT, MINURSO, MONUC, NAM, OAS (observer), OIC, OPCW, OPEC, PCA,
  UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOCI,
  UNOMIG, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Niue
  ACP, FAO, IFAD, OPCW, PIF, Sparteca, SPC, UNESCO, UPU, WHO, WMO

Norfolk Island
  UPU

Northern Mariana Islands
  SPC, UPU

Norway
  ADB (nonregional members), AfDB (nonregional members), Arctic
  Council, Australia Group, BIS, CBSS, CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EFTA,
  ESA, FAO, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD,
  IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO,
  ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM (guest), NATO, NC, NEA, NIB, NSG, OAS
  (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, Paris Club, PCA, Schengen Convention,
  UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNITAR, UNMIS, UNRWA,
  UNTSO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WEU (associate), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO,
  ZC

Oman
  ABEDA, AFESD, AMF, FAO, G-77, GCC, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt
  (signatory), IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO,
  Interpol, IOC, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, LAS, MIGA, NAM, OIC, OPCW, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Pakistan
  ADB, ARF, C (reinstated 2004), CP, ECO, FAO, G-24, G-77,
  IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO,
  IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA,
  MINURCAT, MINURSO, MONUC, NAM, OAS (observer), OIC, OPCW, PCA,
  SAARC, SACEP, SCO (observer), UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR,
  UNIDO, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNMIT, UNOCI, UNOMIG, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO,
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Palau
  ACP, ADB, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFC, IFRCS, IMF,
  IOC, IPU, MIGA, OPCW, PIF, Sparteca, SPC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, WHO

Panama
  BCIE, CAN (observer), CSN (observer), FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA,
  IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES, LAIA
  (observer), MIGA, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN, UN Security
  Council (temporary), UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNWTO,
  UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Papua New Guinea
  ACP, ADB, APEC, ARF, ASEAN (observer), C, CP, FAO,
  G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU,
  MIGA, NAM, OPCW, PIF, Sparteca, SPC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
  UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Paraguay
  CAN (associate), FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt,
  ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU,
  ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES, LAIA, Mercosur, MIGA,
  MINURSO, MINUSTAH, MONUC, NAM (observer), OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA,
  RG, UN, UNASUR, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNMIL, UNMIS,
  UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Peru
  APEC, CAN, FAO, G-15, G-24, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt,
  ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol,
  IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES, LAIA, Mercosur
  (associate), MIGA, MINUSTAH, MONUC, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG,
  UN, UNASUR, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNMIL, UNMIS,
  UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Philippines
  ADB, APEC, APT, ARF, ASEAN, BIS, CP, EAS, FAO, G-24,
  G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
  IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO,
  ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINUSTAH, NAM, OAS (observer), OPCW, PIF (partner),
  UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNMIT,
  UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Pitcairn Islands
  SPC, UPU

Poland
  Arctic Council (observer), Australia Group, BIS, BSEC
  (observer), CBSS, CE, CEI, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, ESA (cooperating
  state), EU, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFC,
  IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO,
  ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURCAT, MINURSO, MONUC, NAM (guest), NATO, NSG,
  OAS (observer), OECD, OIF (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PCA, Schengen
  Convention, SECI (observer), UN, UNCTAD, UNDOF, UNESCO, UNHCR,
  UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOCI, UNOMIG, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO,
  WEU (associate), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC

Portugal
  ADB (nonregional members), AfDB (nonregional members),
  Australia Group, BIS, CE, CERN, CPLP, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EMU, ESA, EU,
  FAO, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC,
  IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO,
  ITU, ITUC, LAIA (observer), MIGA, MINURCAT, NAM (guest), NATO, NEA,
  NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, Schengen Convention,
  SECI (observer), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, Union
  Latina, UNMIT, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WEU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO,
  ZC

Puerto Rico
  Caricom (observer), Interpol (subbureau), IOC, ITUC,
  UNWTO (associate), UPU, WCL, WFTU

Qatar
  ABEDA, ACC, AFESD, AMF, FAO, G-77, GCC, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
  ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO,
  Interpol, IOC, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, LAS, MIGA, NAM, OAPEC, OAS
  (observer), OIC, OPCW, OPEC, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIFIL,
  UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Romania
  Australia Group, BIS, BSEC, CE, CEI, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, ESA
  (cooperating state), EU (new member), FAO, G-9, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAIA (observer),
  MIGA, MONUC, NAM (guest), NATO, NSG, OAS (observer), OIF, OPCW,
  OSCE, PCA, SECI, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, Union Latina,
  UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOCI, UNOMIG, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WEU (associate
  partner), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC

Russia
  APEC, Arctic Council, ARF, ASEAN (dialogue partner), BIS,
  BSEC, CBSS, CE, CERN (observer), CIS, CSTO, EAEC, EAPC, EBRD, G-8,
  GCTU, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IFC,
  IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), IPU,
  ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAIA (observer), MIGA, MINURSO, MONUC, NAM
  (guest), NSG, OAS (observer), OIC (observer), OPCW, OSCE, Paris
  Club, PCA, PFP, SCO, UN, UN Security Council, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR,
  UNIDO, UNITAR, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOCI, UNOMIG, UNTSO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO,
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer), ZC

Rwanda
  ACP, AfDB, AU, CEPGL, COMESA, EAC, EADB, FAO, G-77, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
  IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURCAT, NAM, OIF,
  OPCW, UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIS, UNWTO, UPU, WCL,
  WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Saint Barthelemy
  UPU, WFTU

Saint Helena
  UPU, WFTU

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  ACP, C, Caricom, CDB, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC,
  ITU, MIGA, NAM, OAS, OECS, OPANAL, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
  UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WTO

Saint Lucia
  ACP, C, Caricom, CDB, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt
  (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol,
  IOC, ISO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OAS, OECS, OIF, OPANAL, OPCW, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Saint Martin
  UPU, WFTU

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  UPU, WFTU

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  ACP, C, Caricom, CDB, FAO, G-77,
  IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol,
  IOC, ISO (subscriber), ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OAS, OECS, OPANAL,
  OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WTO

Samoa
  ACP, ADB, C, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD,
  IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IOC, IPU, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, OPCW, PIF,
  Sparteca, SPC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU, WCO, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
  (observer)

San Marino
  CE, FAO, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), IPU, ITU, ITUC, OPCW, OSCE, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, Union Latina, UNWTO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO

Sao Tome and Principe
  ACP, AfDB, AU, CPLP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), IPU, ITU, ITUC, NAM, OIF, OPCW, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO,
  WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)

Saudi Arabia
  ABEDA, AfDB (nonregional members), AFESD, AMF, BIS,
  FAO, G-77, GCC, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
  IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, LAS,
  MIGA, NAM, OAPEC, OAS (observer), OIC, OPCW, OPEC, PCA, UN, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNIDO, UNRWA, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Senegal
  ACP, AfDB, AU, CPLP (associate), ECOWAS, FAO, FZ, G-15,
  G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
  ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent),
  ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURCAT, MONUC, NAM, OIC, OIF, OPCW, PCA,
  UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNMIL, UNOCI,
  UNWTO, UPU, WADB (regional), WAEMU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
  WTO

Serbia
  BSEC, CE, CEI, EAPC, EBRD, FAO, G-9, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
  ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD (suspended), IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MONUC,
  NAM (observer), OAS (observer), OIF (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PCA,
  PFP, SECI, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNOCI, UNWTO,
  UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)

Seychelles
  ACP, AfDB, AU, C, COMESA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, InOC,
  Interpol, IOC, ISO (correspondent), ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OIF, OPCW,
  SADC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
  WMO, WTO (observer)

Sierra Leone
  ACP, AfDB, AU, C, ECOWAS, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol,
  IOC, IOM, IPU, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OIC, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
  UNIDO, UNMIT, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Singapore
  ADB, APEC, APT, ARF, ASEAN, BIS, C, CP, EAS, G-77, IAEA,
  IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO,
  Interpol, IOC, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OPCW, PCA, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNMIT, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Slovakia
  Australia Group, BIS, BSEC (observer), CBSS (observer), CE,
  CEI, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EU, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt,
  ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
  IPU, ISO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM (guest), NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS
  (observer), OECD, OIF (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PCA, Schengen
  Convention, SECI (observer), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNIDO,
  UNTSO, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WEU (associate partner), WFTU, WHO,
  WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC

Slovenia
  Australia Group, BIS, CE, CEI, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, EMU, EU,
  FAO, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFC, IFRCS, IHO,
  ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITU, MIGA, NAM (guest),
  NATO, NSG, OAS (observer), OIF (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PCA, Schengen
  Convention, SECI, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNTSO, UNWTO,
  UPU, WCO, WEU (associate partner), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC

Solomon Islands
  ACP, ADB, C, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt
  (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IOC, ITU,
  MIGA, OPCW, PIF, Sparteca, SPC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU, WHO, WMO,
  WTO

Somalia
  ACP, AfDB, AFESD, AMF, AU, CAEU, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IGAD, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol,
  IOC, IOM, IPU, ITSO, ITU, LAS, NAM, OIC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR,
  UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO

South Africa
  ACP, AfDB, AU, BIS, C, FAO, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MONUC,
  NAM, NSG, OPCW, PCA, SACU, SADC, UN, UN Security Council
  (temporary), UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNITAR, UNWTO,
  UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC

Spain
  ADB (nonregional members), AfDB (nonregional members), Arctic
  Council (observer), Australia Group, BCIE, BIS, CE, CERN, EAPC,
  EBRD, EIB, EMU, ESA, EU, FAO, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt,
  ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAIA (observer),
  MIGA, MINURCAT, MONUC, NAM (guest), NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer),
  OECD, OPCW, OSCE, Paris Club, PCA, Schengen Convention, SECI
  (observer), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, Union Latina,
  UNRWA, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WEU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC

Sri Lanka
  ADB, BIMSTEC, C, CP, FAO, G-15, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURSO,
  MINUSTAH, MONUC, NAM, OAS (observer), OPCW, PCA, SAARC, SACEP, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIS, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
  WMO, WTO

Sudan
  ABEDA, ACP, AfDB, AFESD, AMF, AU, CAEU, COMESA, FAO, G-77,
  IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC,
  IFRCS, IGAD, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU,
  LAS, MIGA, NAM, OIC, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO,
  UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)

Suriname
  ACP, Caricom, FAO, G-77, IADB, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDB,
  IFAD, IFRCS, IHO (suspended), ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IPU, ISO
  (subscriber), ITU, ITUC, LAES, MIGA, NAM, OAS, OIC, OPANAL, OPCW,
  PCA, UN, UNASUR, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
  WMO, WTO

Svalbard
  none

Swaziland
  ACP, AfDB, AU, C, COMESA, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM,
  IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC, ISO (correspondent),
  ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OPCW, PCA, SACU, SADC, UN, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Sweden
  ADB (nonregional members), AfDB (nonregional members), Arctic
  Council, Australia Group, BIS, CBSS, CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, ESA,
  EU, FAO, G-9, G-10, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA,
  IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
  IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURCAT, MONUC, NAM (guest), NC,
  NEA, NIB, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, Paris Club, PCA,
  PFP, Schengen Convention, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIL,
  UNMIS, UNMOGIP, UNOMIG, UNRWA, UNTSO, UPU, WCO, WEU (observer),
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC

Switzerland
  ADB (nonregional members), AfDB (nonregional members),
  Australia Group, BIS, CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EFTA, ESA, FAO, G-10,
  IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
  ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC,
  LAIA (observer), MIGA, MONUC, NAM (guest), NEA, NSG, OAS (observer),
  OECD, OIF, OPCW, OSCE, Paris Club, PCA, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
  UNHCR, UNIDO, UNITAR, UNOMIG, UNRWA, UNTSO, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO,
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC

Syria
  ABEDA, AFESD, AMF, CAEU, FAO, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICC, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO,
  IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, LAS, MIGA, NAM, OAPEC,
  OIC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNRWA, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO,
  WIPO, WMO

Taiwan
  ADB, APEC, BCIE, ICC, IOC, ITUC, WCL, WFTU, WTO

Tajikistan
  ADB, CIS, CSTO, EAEC, EAPC, EBRD, ECO, FAO, GCTU, IAEA,
  IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, MIGA, OIC,
  OPCW, OSCE, PFP, SCO, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO,
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)

Tanzania
  ACP, AfDB, AU, C, EAC, EADB, FAO, G-6, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OPCW,
  SADC, UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNMIS,
  UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Thailand
  ADB, APEC, APT, ARF, ASEAN, BIMSTEC, BIS, CP, EAS, FAO,
  G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
  IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO,
  ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OAS (observer), OIC (observer), OIF
  (observer), OPCW, OSCE (partner), PCA, PIF (partner), UN, UNAMID,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNITAR, UNMIS, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO,
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Timor-Leste
  ACP, ADB, ARF, CPLP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, IDA,
  IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IPU, MIGA, NAM,
  OPCW, PIF (observer), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union Latina,
  UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO

Togo
  ACP, AfDB, AU, ECOWAS, Entente, FAO, FZ, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA,
  NAM, OIC, OIF, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIL,
  UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WADB (regional), WAEMU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO,
  WIPO, WMO, WTO

Tokelau
  PIF (observer), SPC, UNESCO (associate), UPU

Tonga
  ACP, ADB, C, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
  IFRCS, IHO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, ITU, ITUC, OPCW, PIF,
  Sparteca, SPC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
  WMO, WTO

Trinidad and Tobago
  ACP, C, Caricom, CDB, FAO, G-24, G-77, IADB,
  IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Interpol, IOC, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES, MIGA, NAM, OAS, OPANAL,
  OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
  WMO, WTO

Tunisia
  ABEDA, AfDB, AFESD, AMF, AMU, AU, BSEC (observer), FAO,
  G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO,
  ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC,
  LAS, MIGA, MONUC, NAM, OAPEC (suspended), OAS (observer), OIC, OIF,
  OPCW, OSCE (partner), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNOCI,
  UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Turkey
  ADB (nonregional members), Australia Group, BIS, BSEC, CE,
  CERN (observer), EAPC, EBRD, ECO, EU (applicant), FAO, IAEA, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF,
  IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA,
  NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OIC, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, SECI,
  UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNMIS, UNOCI, UNOMIG,
  UNRWA, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WEU (associate), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO,
  ZC

Turkmenistan
  ADB, CIS, EAPC, EBRD, ECO, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM,
  IDA, IDB, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer),
  ISO (correspondent), ITU, MIGA, NAM, OIC, OPCW, OSCE, PFP, SCO
  (guest), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO,
  WIPO, WMO

Turks and Caicos Islands
  Caricom (associate), CDB, Interpol
  (subbureau), UPU

Tuvalu
  ACP, ADB, C, FAO, IFRCS (observer), IMO, IOC, ITU, OPCW, PIF,
  Sparteca, SPC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU, WHO

Uganda
  ACP, AfDB, AU, C, COMESA, EAC, EADB, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IGAD, ILO, IMF,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA,
  MINURCAT, NAM, OIC, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR,
  UNIDO, UNMIS, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Ukraine
  Australia Group, BSEC, CBSS (observer), CE, CEI, CIS, EAEC
  (observer), EAPC, EBRD, FAO, GCTU, GUAM, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt
  (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITU, ITUC, LAIA (observer), MIGA,
  MONUC, NAM (observer), NSG, OAS (observer), OIF (observer), OPCW,
  OSCE, PCA, PFP, SECI (observer), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIL,
  UNMIS, UNOMIG, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, ZC

United Arab Emirates
  ABEDA, AFESD, AMF, FAO, G-77, GCC, IAEA, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICC, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO,
  ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, LAS, MIGA,
  NAM, OAPEC, OIC, OPCW, OPEC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCO,
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

United Kingdom
  ADB (nonregional members), AfDB (nonregional
  members), Arctic Council (observer), Australia Group, BIS, C, CBSS
  (observer), CDB, CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, EIB, ESA, EU, FAO, G-5, G-7,
  G-8, G-10, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD,
  IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO,
  ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW,
  OSCE, Paris Club, PCA, PIF (partner), SECI (observer), UN, UN
  Security Council, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNIDO,
  UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOMIG, UNRWA, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WEU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
  WMO, WTO, ZC

United States
  ADB (nonregional members), AfDB (nonregional members),
  ANZUS, APEC, Arctic Council, ARF, ASEAN (dialogue partner),
  Australia Group, BIS, BSEC (observer), CBSS (observer), CE
  (observer), CERN (observer), CP, EAPC, EBRD, FAO, G-5, G-7, G-8,
  G-10, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IEA,
  IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO,
  ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINUSTAH, NAFTA, NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS, OECD,
  OPCW, OSCE, Paris Club, PCA, PIF (partner), SAARC (observer), SECI
  (observer), SPC, UN, UN Security Council, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR,
  UNITAR, UNMIL, UNOMIG, UNRWA, UNTSO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
  WMO, WTO, ZC

Uruguay
  CAN (associate), FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
  ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol,
  IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, LAES, LAIA, Mercosur, MIGA, MINURSO,
  MINUSTAH, MONUC, NAM (observer), OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN,
  UNASUR, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, Union Latina, UNMIS, UNMOGIP, UNOCI,
  UNOMIG, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Uzbekistan
  ADB, CIS, CSTO, EAEC, EAPC, EBRD, ECO, FAO, GCTU, IAEA,
  IBRD, ICAO, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF,
  Interpol, IOC, ISO, ITSO, ITU, MIGA, NAM, OIC, OPCW, OSCE, PFP, SCO,
  UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
  WTO (observer)

Vanuatu
  ACCT, ACP, ADB, C, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFC,
  IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IOC, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OAS (observer),
  OIF, OPCW, PIF, Sparteca, SPC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO,
  WMO, WTO (observer)

Venezuela
  Caricom (observer), CDB, FAO, G-15, G-24, G-77, IADB,
  IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICCt, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO,
  IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAES,
  LAIA, LAS (observer), Mercosur (associate), MIGA, NAM, OAS, OPANAL,
  OPCW, OPEC, PCA, RG, UN, UNASUR, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, Union
  Latina, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Vietnam
  ADB, APEC, APT, ARF, ASEAN, CP, EAS, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, IMSO, Interpol,
  IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, MIGA, NAM, OIF, OPCW, UN, UN Security
  Council (temporary), UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO,
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Virgin Islands
  IOC, UPU, WFTU

Wallis and Futuna
  PIF (observer), SPC, UPU, WFTU

Western Sahara
  WFTU

Yemen
  AFESD, AMF, CAEU, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt
  (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, LAS,
  MIGA, MINURCAT, MINURSO, MONUC, NAM, OAS (observer), OIC, OPCW, UN,
  UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOCI, UNOMIG,
  UNWTO, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO (observer)

Zambia
  ACP, AfDB, AU, C, COMESA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt,
  ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO
  (correspondent), ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, MINURCAT, MONUC, NAM, OPCW,
  PCA, SADC, UN, UNAMID, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNMIS,
  UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU, WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

Zimbabwe
  ACP, AfDB, AU, COMESA, FAO, G-15, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, IPU, ISO, ITSO, ITU, ITUC, MIGA, NAM, OPCW, PCA,
  SADC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIL, UNMIS, UNOCI, UNWTO, UPU,
  WCL, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2108  Merchant marine


Albania
  total: 24
  by type: cargo 22, roll on/roll off 2
  foreign-owned: 1 (Turkey 1)
  registered in other countries: 2 (Panama 2) (2008)

Algeria
  total: 33
  by type: bulk carrier 6, cargo 8, chemical tanker 1, liquefied gas
  9, passenger/cargo 3, petroleum tanker 4, roll on/roll off 2
  foreign-owned: 18 (Jordan 7, UK 11) (2008)

Angola
  total: 6
  by type: cargo 1, passenger/cargo 2, petroleum tanker 2, roll
  on/roll off 1
  foreign-owned: 1 (Spain 1)
  registered in other countries: 6 (Bahamas 6) (2008)

Antigua and Barbuda
  total: 1,146
  by type: barge carrier 2, bulk carrier 50, cargo 651, carrier 4,
  chemical tanker 5, container 392, liquefied gas 12, petroleum tanker
  1, refrigerated cargo 9, roll on/roll off 20
  foreign-owned: 1,113 (Australia 1, Colombia 2, Cyprus 18, Denmark
  19, Estonia 23, France 1, Germany 941, Greece 3, Iceland 12, Italy
  1, Latvia 13, Lithuania 5, Netherlands 20, NZ 2, Norway 8, Poland 2,
  Russia 4, Slovenia 6, Sweden 1, Switzerland 8, Turkey 6, UK 9, US 8)
  (2008)

Argentina
  total: 46
  by type: bulk carrier 3, cargo 9, chemical tanker 2, container 1,
  passenger 1, passenger/cargo 3, petroleum tanker 24, refrigerated
  cargo 2, roll on/roll off 1
  foreign-owned: 14 (Brazil 1, Chile 7, Spain 2, UK 4)
  registered in other countries: 19 (Liberia 3, Panama 8, Paraguay 5,
  Uruguay 3) (2008)

Australia
  total: 50
  by type: bulk carrier 12, cargo 5, chemical tanker 1, container 1,
  liquefied gas 4, passenger 7, passenger/cargo 7, petroleum tanker 8,
  roll on/roll off 5
  foreign-owned: 24 (Canada 9, France 1, Germany 2, Japan 1,
  Netherlands 2, Norway 1, Singapore 1, UK 5, US 2)
  registered in other countries: 28 (Antigua and Barbuda 1, Belize 1,
  Bermuda 1, Dominica 2, Fiji 1, Marshall Islands 1, NZ 1, Panama 4,
  Singapore 12, Tonga 1, US 1, Vanuatu 2) (2008)

Austria
  total: 4
  by type: cargo 2, container 2
  foreign-owned: 2 (Netherlands 2)
  registered in other countries: 4 (Cyprus 1, Malta 1, Saint Vincent
  and the Grenadines 2) (2008)

Azerbaijan
  total: 89
  by type: cargo 26, passenger 2, passenger/cargo 9, petroleum tanker
  46, roll on/roll off 3, specialized tanker 3
  registered in other countries: 3 (Malta 2, Panama 1) (2008)

Bahamas, The
  total: 1,223
  by type: barge carrier 1, bulk carrier 210, cargo 226, carrier 2,
  chemical tanker 88, combination ore/oil 12, container 65, liquefied
  gas 77, passenger 109, passenger/cargo 35, petroleum tanker 209,
  refrigerated cargo 119, roll on/roll off 16, specialized tanker 3,
  vehicle carrier 51
  foreign-owned: 1,150 (Angola 6, Belgium 15, Bermuda 12, Brazil 2,
  Canada 84, China 10, Croatia 1, Cuba 1, Cyprus 25, Denmark 67,
  Finland 9, France 30, Germany 44, Greece 209, Hong Kong 30, Iceland
  1, Indonesia 2, Ireland 2, Isle of Man 1, Italy 4, Japan 87, Jordan
  2, Kenya 1, Malaysia 13, Monaco 15, Montenegro 2, Netherlands 9,
  Nigeria 2, Norway 189, Poland 17, Russia 4, Saudi Arabia 16,
  Singapore 17, Slovenia 1, South Africa 1, Spain 14, Sweden 4,
  Switzerland 1, Thailand 5, Trinidad and Tobago 1, Turkey 8, UAE 23,
  UK 56, US 106, Venezuela 1)
  registered in other countries: 12 (Bolivia 1, Panama 9, Peru 1,
  Portugal 1) (2008)

Bahrain
  total: 9
  by type: bulk carrier 4, container 4, petroleum tanker 1
  foreign-owned: 6 (Kuwait 5, UAE 1) (2008)

Bangladesh
  total: 40
  by type: bulk carrier 3, cargo 27, container 5, passenger/cargo 1,
  petroleum tanker 4
  foreign-owned: 1 (China 1)
  registered in other countries: 10 (Comoros 2, Honduras 1, Malta 2,
  Panama 2, Singapore 2, Togo 1) (2008)

Barbados
  total: 85
  by type: bulk carrier 15, cargo 50, chemical tanker 7, passenger 1,
  passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 3, refrigerated cargo 6, roll
  on/roll off 2
  foreign-owned: 80 (Canada 9, Greece 12, India 1, Iran 2, Lebanon 1,
  Norway 38, Sweden 7, Syria 1, UK 9)
  registered in other countries: 1 (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  1) (2008)

Belgium
  total: 79
  by type: bulk carrier 20, cargo 9, chemical tanker 1, container 6,
  liquefied gas 20, passenger 2, petroleum tanker 11, roll on/roll off
  10
  foreign-owned: 6 (Denmark 4, France 2)
  registered in other countries: 111 (Bahamas 15, Cyprus 2, France 6,
  Gibraltar 2, Greece 16, Hong Kong 3, Liberia 4, Luxembourg 7, Malta
  15, Mozambique 2, Netherlands 2, Netherlands Antilles 1, Panama 2,
  Portugal 1, Portugal 7, Russia 4, Saint Kitts and Nevis 1, Saint
  Vincent and the Grenadines 8, Sierra Leone 1, Singapore 8, Vanuatu
  4) (2008)

Belize
  total: 216
  by type: barge carrier 1, bulk carrier 32, cargo 152, chemical
  tanker 2, container 1, passenger 1, petroleum tanker 9, refrigerated
  cargo 12, roll on/roll off 5, specialized tanker 1
  foreign-owned: 178 (Australia 1, China 71, Croatia 2, Cyprus 1,
  Estonia 6, Greece 1, Iceland 2, Italy 3, Japan 8, South Korea 1,
  Latvia 12, Norway 3, Peru 1, Russia 31, Singapore 2, Spain 1, Turkey
  15, Ukraine 7, UAE 5, UK 5) (2008)

Bermuda
  total: 137
  by type: bulk carrier 23, chemical tanker 3, container 22, liquefied
  gas 33, passenger 24, passenger/cargo 5, petroleum tanker 18,
  refrigerated cargo 9
  foreign-owned: 115 (Australia 1, China 10, France 1, Germany 22,
  Greece 9, Hong Kong 4, Ireland 1, Israel 3, Japan 2, Nigeria 11,
  Norway 5, Sweden 20, UK 3, US 23)
  registered in other countries: 50 (Bahamas 12, Marshall Islands 4,
  Philippines 34) (2008)

Bolivia
  total: 23
  by type: bulk carrier 1, cargo 11, carrier 1, passenger/cargo 1,
  petroleum tanker 7, refrigerated cargo 1, specialized tanker 1
  foreign-owned: 7 (Bahamas 1, China 1, Iran 1, Singapore 1, Syria 2,
  Taiwan 1) (2008)

Brazil
  total: 136
  by type: bulk carrier 19, cargo 22, carrier 1, chemical tanker 7,
  container 11, liquefied gas 12, passenger/cargo 12, petroleum tanker
  45, roll on/roll off 7
  foreign-owned: 25 (Chile 1, Denmark 2, Germany 6, Greece 1, Mexico
  1, Norway 5, Spain 9)
  registered in other countries: 8 (Argentina 1, Bahamas 2, Ghana 1,
  Liberia 3, Marshall Islands 1) (2008)

British Virgin Islands
  registered in other countries: 1 (Panama 1)
  (2008)

Brunei
  total: 8
  by type: liquefied gas 8
  foreign-owned: 1 (UK 1) (2008)

Bulgaria
  total: 74
  by type: bulk carrier 37, cargo 14, chemical tanker 5, container 6,
  liquefied gas 2, passenger/cargo 2, petroleum tanker 3, roll on/roll
  off 4, specialized tanker 1
  foreign-owned: 65 (Germany 63, Ireland 1, Russia 1)
  registered in other countries: 31 (Comoros 2, Malta 5, Panama 3,
  Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 15, Slovakia 6) (2008)

Burma
  total: 24
  by type: bulk carrier 1, cargo 17, passenger 2, passenger/cargo 3,
  specialized tanker 1
  foreign-owned: 3 (Cyprus 1, Germany 1, Japan 1)
  registered in other countries: 1 (Panama 1) (2008)

Cambodia
  total: 626
  by type: bulk carrier 41, cargo 530, carrier 3, chemical tanker 10,
  container 8, passenger/cargo 6, petroleum tanker 11, refrigerated
  cargo 15, roll on/roll off 1, vehicle carrier 1
  foreign-owned: 467 (Canada 2, China 193, Cyprus 7, Egypt 13, Gabon
  1, Greece 3, Hong Kong 8, Indonesia 2, Japan 1, South Korea 22,
  Latvia 1, Lebanon 8, Netherlands 1, Romania 1, Russia 83, Singapore
  4, Syria 48, Taiwan 1, Turkey 26, Ukraine 34, UAE 2, US 6) (2008)

Canada
  total: 175
  by type: bulk carrier 60, cargo 13, carrier 1, chemical tanker 10,
  combination ore/oil 1, container 2, passenger 6, passenger/cargo 64,
  petroleum tanker 12, roll on/roll off 6
  foreign-owned: 17 (Germany 3, Netherlands 1, Norway 3, US 10)
  registered in other countries: 206 (Australia 9, Bahamas 84,
  Barbados 9, Cambodia 2, Cyprus 2, Denmark 1, Honduras 1, Hong Kong
  44, Liberia 7, Malta 1, Marshall Islands 6, Norway 7, Norway 3,
  Panama 18, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 1, Spain 1, Spain 3,
  Taiwan 2, Vanuatu 5) (2008)

Cape Verde
  total: 8
  by type: cargo 2, chemical tanker 1, passenger/cargo 5
  foreign-owned: 2 (Spain 1, UK 1) (2008)

Cayman Islands
  total: 109
  by type: bulk carrier 30, cargo 2, chemical tanker 42, petroleum
  tanker 15, refrigerated cargo 10, roll on/roll off 3, vehicle
  carrier 7
  foreign-owned: 107 (Denmark 3, Germany 15, Greece 16, Italy 4, Japan
  13, Norway 1, Singapore 10, UK 3, US 42) (2008)

Chile
  total: 44
  by type: bulk carrier 9, cargo 7, chemical tanker 8, container 1,
  liquefied gas 2, passenger 4, passenger/cargo 2, petroleum tanker 7,
  roll on/roll off 1, vehicle carrier 3
  registered in other countries: 40 (Argentina 7, Brazil 1, Cyprus 1,
  Isle of Man 6, Marshall Islands 4, Norway 2, Panama 12, Singapore 6,
  Venezuela 1) (2008)

China
  total: 1,826
  by type: barge carrier 4, bulk carrier 451, cargo 689, carrier 2,
  chemical tanker 69, combination ore/oil 1, container 162, liquefied
  gas 44, passenger 8, passenger/cargo 83, petroleum tanker 244,
  refrigerated cargo 33, roll on/roll off 10, specialized tanker 9,
  vehicle carrier 17
  foreign-owned: 20 (Ecuador 1, Greece 2, Hong Kong 12, Indonesia 1,
  Japan 2, South Korea 1, Norway 1)
  registered in other countries: 1,441 (Bahamas 10, Bangladesh 1,
  Belize 71, Bermuda 10, Bolivia 1, Cambodia 193, Cyprus 10, France 5,
  Georgia 10, Germany 2, Honduras 3, Hong Kong 324, India 1, Indonesia
  2, Kiribati 15, South Korea 1, Liberia 11, Malta 12, Marshall
  Islands 7, Mongolia 1, Norway 36, Panama 532, Philippines 4, Saint
  Vincent and the Grenadines 94, Sierra Leone 15, Singapore 14,
  Thailand 1, Tuvalu 16, unknown 39) (2008)

Colombia
  total: 17
  by type: cargo 13, petroleum tanker 3, specialized tanker 1
  registered in other countries: 6 (Antigua and Barbuda 2, Panama 4)
  (2008)

Comoros
  total: 136
  by type: bulk carrier 15, cargo 87, carrier 2, chemical tanker 5,
  container 2, passenger 1, passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 9,
  refrigerated cargo 5, roll on/roll off 8, specialized tanker 1
  foreign-owned: 68 (Bangladesh 2, Bulgaria 2, Cyprus 1, Greece 6,
  India 2, Kenya 1, Kuwait 1, Lebanon 4, Norway 1, Pakistan 4,
  Philippines 1, Russia 12, Saudi Arabia 1, Singapore 1, Syria 4,
  Turkey 8, Ukraine 8, UAE 7, US 2) (2008)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  total: 1
  by type: petroleum tanker 1
  foreign-owned: 1 (Congo, Republic of the 1) (2008)

Congo, Republic of the
  registered in other countries: 1 (Congo,
  Democratic Republic of the 1) (2008)

Cook Islands
  total: 26
  by type: cargo 14, chemical tanker 1, petroleum tanker 1,
  refrigerated cargo 8, roll on/roll off 2
  foreign-owned: 17 (Latvia 1, Lithuania 1, NZ 1, Nigeria 1, Norway 5,
  Sweden 8) (2008)

Costa Rica
  total: 1
  by type: passenger/cargo 1 (2008)

Croatia
  total: 80
  by type: bulk carrier 25, cargo 11, chemical tanker 3,
  passenger/cargo 30, petroleum tanker 8, refrigerated cargo 1, roll
  on/roll off 2
  registered in other countries: 30 (Bahamas 1, Belize 2, Liberia 2,
  Malta 9, Marshall Islands 6, Panama 3, Saint Vincent and the
  Grenadines 7) (2008)

Cuba
  total: 11
  by type: bulk carrier 2, cargo 3, passenger 1, petroleum tanker 3,
  refrigerated cargo 2
  foreign-owned: 1 (Spain 1)
  registered in other countries: 13 (Bahamas 1, Cyprus 1, Netherlands
  Antilles 1, Panama 10) (2008)

Cyprus
  total: 858
  by type: bulk carrier 295, cargo 182, chemical tanker 63, container
  193, liquefied gas 10, passenger 5, passenger/cargo 24, petroleum
  tanker 58, refrigerated cargo 10, roll on/roll off 12, specialized
  tanker 1, vehicle carrier 5
  foreign-owned: 690 (Austria 1, Belgium 2, Canada 2, Chile 1, China
  10, Cuba 1, Denmark 4, Estonia 5, Germany 189, Greece 259, Hong Kong
  2, India 2, Iran 10, Ireland 3, Israel 4, Italy 7, Japan 21, South
  Korea 1, Latvia 1, Lebanon 1, Netherlands 22, Norway 18, Philippines
  1, Poland 18, Portugal 1, Russia 50, Singapore 3, Slovenia 4, Spain
  6, Sweden 2, Syria 2, Ukraine 4, UAE 9, UK 19, US 5)
  registered in other countries: 256 (Antigua and Barbuda 18, Bahamas
  25, Belize 1, Burma 1, Cambodia 7, Comoros 1, Georgia 1, Germany 2,
  Gibraltar 1, Greece 7, Liberia 63, Malta 31, Marshall Islands 37,
  Netherlands 8, Netherlands Antilles 21, Panama 19, Poland 1, Russia
  2, Saint Kitts and Nevis 1, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 1,
  Samoa 1, Singapore 1, Tonga 1, Turkey 2, UK 2, unknown 1) (2008)

Czech Republic
  registered in other countries: 1 (Saint Vincent and
  the Grenadines 1) (2008)

Denmark
  total: 327
  by type: bulk carrier 8, cargo 63, carrier 2, chemical tanker 78,
  container 84, liquefied gas 2, passenger/cargo 42, petroleum tanker
  29, refrigerated cargo 7, roll on/roll off 8, specialized tanker 4
  foreign-owned: 26 (Canada 1, Germany 1, Germany 9, Greece 4, Iceland
  2, Norway 3, Sweden 6)
  registered in other countries: 534 (Antigua and Barbuda 19, Bahamas
  67, Belgium 4, Brazil 2, Cayman Islands 3, Cyprus 4, Egypt 1,
  Estonia 1, France 2, Germany 1, Gibraltar 7, Hong Kong 24, Isle of
  Man 29, Italy 3, Jamaica 2, Liberia 12, Lithuania 5, Luxembourg 1,
  Malta 30, Marshall Islands 10, Mexico 2, Netherlands 29, Netherlands
  Antilles 2, Norway 25, Panama 40, Portugal 3, Saint Vincent and the
  Grenadines 16, Singapore 87, South Africa 1, Spain 1, Spain 1,
  Sweden 4, Togo 1, UAE 1, UK 62, US 31, Venezuela 1) (2008)

Dominica
  total: 53
  by type: bulk carrier 14, cargo 27, chemical tanker 3, petroleum
  tanker 5, refrigerated cargo 2, roll on/roll off 1, vehicle carrier 1
  foreign-owned: 47 (Australia 2, Estonia 7, Greece 10, India 2,
  Latvia 1, Norway 1, Russia 3, Saudi Arabia 2, Singapore 7, Syria 2,
  Turkey 5, Ukraine 4, UAE 1) (2008)

Dominican Republic
  total: 1
  by type: cargo 1
  registered in other countries: 1 (Panama 1) (2008)

Ecuador
  total: 37
  by type: cargo 1, chemical tanker 1, liquefied gas 1, passenger 8,
  petroleum tanker 24, refrigerated cargo 1, specialized tanker 1
  foreign-owned: 1 (US 1)
  registered in other countries: 5 (China 1, Panama 4) (2008)

Egypt
  total: 67
  by type: bulk carrier 11, cargo 28, container 2, passenger/cargo 4,
  petroleum tanker 13, roll on/roll off 9
  foreign-owned: 10 (Denmark 1, Greece 8, Lebanon 1)
  registered in other countries: 58 (Cambodia 13, Georgia 12, Honduras
  3, North Korea 1, Malta 1, Moldova 1, Panama 17, Saint Kitts and
  Nevis 2, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 3, Saudi Arabia 1, Sierra
  Leone 3, Togo 1) (2008)

Equatorial Guinea
  total: 1
  by type: cargo 1 (2008)

Eritrea
  total: 5
  by type: cargo 2, liquefied gas 1, petroleum tanker 1, roll on/roll
  off 1 (2008)

Estonia
  total: 29
  by type: cargo 5, passenger/cargo 21, petroleum tanker 2, chemical
  tanker 1
  foreign-owned: 4 (Denmark 1, Germany 1, Norway 2)
  registered in other countries: 85 (Antigua and Barbuda 23, Belize 6,
  Cyprus 5, Dominica 7, Finland 2, Latvia 2, Liberia 1, Malta 11,
  Norway 1, Panama 5, Saint Kitts and Nevis 3, Saint Vincent and the
  Grenadines 16, Sweden 2, Vanuatu 1) (2008)

Ethiopia
  total: 9
  by type: cargo 8, roll on/roll off 1 (2008)

Faroe Islands
  total: 12
  by type: cargo 9, passenger/cargo 3
  foreign-owned: 5 (Iceland 1, Norway 4) (2008)

Fiji
  total: 9
  by type: passenger 3, passenger/cargo 4, roll on/roll off 2
  foreign-owned: 1 (Australia 1) (2008)

Finland
  total: 98
  by type: bulk carrier 3, cargo 28, carrier 1, chemical tanker 6,
  container 3, passenger 5, passenger/cargo 18, petroleum tanker 5,
  roll on/roll off 27, vehicle carrier 2
  foreign-owned: 8 (Estonia 2, Germany 1, Norway 3, Sweden 2)
  registered in other countries: 47 (Bahamas 9, Germany 4, Gibraltar
  3, Netherlands 14, Norway 1, Panama 2, Saint Kitts and Nevis 1,
  Sweden 12, UK 1) (2008)

France
  total: 138
  by type: bulk carrier 2, cargo 1, chemical tanker 32, container 25,
  liquefied gas 12, passenger 3, passenger/cargo 33, petroleum tanker
  23, roll on/roll off 7
  foreign-owned: 38 (Belgium 6, China 5, Denmark 2, Germany 1, Italy
  2, Japan 1, NZ 1, Norway 5, Saudi Arabia 1, Singapore 2, Sweden 9,
  Switzerland 1, Switzerland 2)
  registered in other countries: 127 (Antigua and Barbuda 1, Australia
  1, Bahamas 30, Belgium 2, Bermuda 1, Hong Kong 1, Indonesia 1, Isle
  of Man 1, Italy 2, Liberia 5, Luxembourg 17, Malta 5, Morocco 14,
  Netherlands 1, Norway 3, Panama 5, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  6, Singapore 1, Taiwan 1, UK 23, Wallis and Futuna 6) (2008)

French Polynesia
  total: 15
  by type: cargo 6, passenger 2, passenger/cargo 5, refrigerated cargo
  1, roll on/roll off 1
  registered in other countries: 2 (Wallis and Futuna 2) (2008)

Gabon
  registered in other countries: 2 (Cambodia 1, Panama 1) (2008)

Gambia, The
  total: 5
  by type: passenger/cargo 4, petroleum tanker 1 (2008)

Georgia
  total: 191
  by type: bulk carrier 18, cargo 148, carrier 2, chemical tanker 1,
  container 4, liquefied gas 1, passenger/cargo 2, petroleum tanker 4,
  refrigerated cargo 5, roll on/roll off 4, vehicle carrier 2
  foreign-owned: 153 (China 10, Cyprus 1, Egypt 12, Germany 2, Greece
  5, Hong Kong 2, Israel 2, Lebanon 4, Monaco 4, Nigeria 1, Romania
  16, Russia 12, Syria 49, Turkey 14, Ukraine 18, UAE 1) (2008)

Germany
  total: 393
  by type: bulk carrier 2, cargo 43, chemical tanker 13, container
  284, liquefied gas 5, passenger 5, passenger/cargo 27, petroleum
  tanker 11, roll on/roll off 3
  foreign-owned: 11 (China 2, Cyprus 2, Denmark 1, Finland 4,
  Netherlands 1, Sweden 1)
  registered in other countries: 2,998 (Antigua and Barbuda 941,
  Australia 2, Bahamas 44, Bermuda 22, Brazil 6, Bulgaria 63, Burma 1,
  Canada 3, Cayman Islands 15, Cyprus 189, Denmark 9, Denmark 1,
  Estonia 1, Finland 1, France 1, Georgia 2, Gibraltar 129, Hong Kong
  6, India 2, Indonesia 1, Isle of Man 56, Jamaica 4, Liberia 849,
  Luxembourg 5, Malaysia 1, Malta 91, Marshall Islands 235, Mongolia
  4, Morocco 2, Netherlands 75, Netherlands Antilles 43, Norway 1, NZ
  1, Panama 44, Portugal 2, Portugal 18, Russia 1, Saint Vincent and
  the Grenadines 3, Singapore 24, Slovakia 3, Spain 1, Spain 4, Sri
  Lanka 5, Sweden 5, Turkey 1, UK 76, US 5) (2008)

Ghana
  total: 4
  by type: petroleum tanker 1, refrigerated cargo 3
  foreign-owned: 1 (Brazil 1) (2008)

Gibraltar
  total: 240
  by type: bulk carrier 5, cargo 125, chemical tanker 51, container
  43, passenger 1, petroleum tanker 10, roll on/roll off 5
  foreign-owned: 225 (Belgium 2, Cyprus 1, Denmark 7, Finland 3,
  Germany 129, Greece 6, Iceland 1, Morocco 4, Netherlands 21, Norway
  33, Sweden 13, UAE 3, UK 2)
  registered in other countries: 7 (Liberia 5, Panama 1, Saint Vincent
  and the Grenadines 1) (2008)

Greece
  total: 869
  by type: bulk carrier 260, cargo 66, carrier 1, chemical tanker 66,
  combination ore/oil 2, container 45, liquefied gas 10, passenger 13,
  passenger/cargo 115, petroleum tanker 274, roll on/roll off 15,
  specialized tanker 2
  foreign-owned: 64 (Belgium 16, Cyprus 7, Turkey 1, UK 32, US 8)
  registered in other countries: 2,357 (Antigua and Barbuda 3, Bahamas
  209, Barbados 12, Belize 1, Bermuda 9, Brazil 1, Cambodia 3, Cayman
  Islands 16, China 2, Comoros 6, Cyprus 259, Denmark 4, Dominica 10,
  Egypt 8, Georgia 5, Gibraltar 6, Honduras 4, Hong Kong 22, Isle of
  Man 50, Italy 6, Jamaica 6, North Korea 1, Lebanon 2, Liberia 358,
  Maldives 1, Malta 452, Marshall Islands 269, Norway 3, Panama 510,
  Philippines 4, Portugal 4, Russia 1, Saint Kitts and Nevis 3, Saint
  Vincent and the Grenadines 71, Sao Tome and Principe 1, Saudi Arabia
  3, Sierra Leone 1, Singapore 15, Slovakia 2, Turkey 1, UAE 3,
  Uruguay 1, Vanuatu 1, Venezuela 3, unknown 5) (2008)

Greenland
  total: 2
  by type: cargo 1, passenger 1 (2008)

Guyana
  total: 8
  by type: cargo 6, petroleum tanker 1, refrigerated cargo 1
  registered in other countries: 3 (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  2, unknown 1) (2008)

Honduras
  total: 123
  by type: bulk carrier 10, cargo 57, chemical tanker 6, container 1,
  liquefied gas 1, passenger 4, passenger/cargo 7, petroleum tanker
  25, refrigerated cargo 7, roll on/roll off 4, specialized tanker 1
  foreign-owned: 42 (Bangladesh 1, Canada 1, China 3, Egypt 3, Greece
  4, Hong Kong 1, Israel 1, Japan 4, South Korea 6, Lebanon 1, Mexico
  1, Singapore 12, Taiwan 2, Tanzania 1, Vietnam 1) (2008)

Hong Kong
  total: 1,114
  by type: barge carrier 2, bulk carrier 525, cargo 142, carrier 3,
  chemical tanker 68, combination ore/oil 2, container 205, liquefied
  gas 22, passenger 6, passenger/cargo 5, petroleum tanker 114, roll
  on/roll off 4, specialized tanker 9, vehicle carrier 7
  foreign-owned: 703 (Belgium 3, Canada 44, China 324, Denmark 24,
  France 1, Germany 6, Greece 22, Indonesia 7, Iran 15, Japan 111,
  South Korea 3, Norway 40, Philippines 1, Portugal 1, Russia 2,
  Singapore 18, Syria 1, Taiwan 11, UAE 1, UK 39, US 29)
  registered in other countries: 357 (Bahamas 30, Bermuda 4, Cambodia
  8, China 12, Cyprus 2, Georgia 2, Honduras 1, India 1, Jamaica 1,
  Kiribati 4, Liberia 44, Malaysia 14, Malta 1, Marshall Islands 4,
  Mexico 1, Netherlands Antilles 2, Norway 20, Panama 130, Philippines
  1, Portugal 2, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 6, Seychelles 1,
  Sierra Leone 1, Singapore 47, Tuvalu 7, UK 2, Vietnam 1, unknown 8)
  (2008)

Iceland
  total: 2
  by type: passenger/cargo 2
  registered in other countries: 37 (Antigua and Barbuda 12, Bahamas
  1, Belize 2, Denmark 2, Faroe Islands 1, Gibraltar 1, Malta 5,
  Marshall Islands 3, Norway 3, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 7)
  (2008)

India
  total: 501
  by type: bulk carrier 102, cargo 241, carrier 1, chemical tanker 19,
  container 13, liquefied gas 18, passenger 3, passenger/cargo 11,
  petroleum tanker 92, roll on/roll off 1
  foreign-owned: 12 (China 1, Germany 2, Hong Kong 1, UAE 6, UK 2)
  registered in other countries: 61 (Barbados 1, Comoros 2, Cyprus 2,
  Dominica 2, Liberia 2, Malta 2, Marshall Islands 1, Panama 27, Saint
  Kitts and Nevis 1, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 7, Singapore 13,
  unknown 1) (2008)

Indonesia
  total: 971
  by type: bulk carrier 54, cargo 514, chemical tanker 35, container
  80, liquefied gas 7, passenger 44, passenger/cargo 68, petroleum
  tanker 143, refrigerated cargo 2, roll on/roll off 10, specialized
  tanker 10, vehicle carrier 4
  foreign-owned: 43 (China 2, France 1, Germany 1, Japan 6, Norway 1,
  Philippines 1, Singapore 27, Taiwan 2, UAE 2)
  registered in other countries: 114 (Bahamas 2, Cambodia 2, China 1,
  Hong Kong 7, Liberia 2, Mongolia 1, Panama 31, Singapore 66, unknown
  2) (2008)

Iran
  total: 74
  by type: bulk carrier 18, cargo 34, chemical tanker 4, container 6,
  liquefied gas 1, passenger/cargo 4, petroleum tanker 2, refrigerated
  cargo 2, roll on/roll off 3
  foreign-owned: 1 (UAE 1)
  registered in other countries: 115 (Barbados 2, Bolivia 1, Cyprus
  10, Hong Kong 15, Malta 79, Panama 7, Saint Vincent and the
  Grenadines 1) (2008)

Iraq
  total: 14
  by type: cargo 10, petroleum tanker 4 (2008)

Ireland
  total: 29
  by type: cargo 25, chemical tanker 2, container 1, roll on/roll off 1
  foreign-owned: 2 (US 2)
  registered in other countries: 21 (Bahamas 2, Bermuda 1, Bulgaria 1,
  Cyprus 3, Isle of Man 1, Marshall Islands 1, Netherlands 10,
  Slovakia 1, UK 1) (2008)

Isle of Man
  total: 273
  by type: bulk carrier 31, cargo 50, chemical tanker 48, container
  12, liquefied gas 41, passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 73,
  refrigerated cargo 4, roll on/roll off 8, vehicle carrier 5
  foreign-owned: 181 (Chile 6, Denmark 29, France 1, Germany 56,
  Greece 50, Ireland 1, Japan 6, Monaco 3, Netherlands 1, Norway 20,
  Singapore 1, Sweden 1, Turkey 2, US 4)
  registered in other countries: 7 (Bahamas 1, Liberia 5, Marshall
  Islands 1) (2008)

Israel
  total: 11
  by type: cargo 2, container 9
  registered in other countries: 60 (Bermuda 3, Cyprus 4, Georgia 2,
  Honduras 1, Liberia 23, Malta 18, Panama 3, Saint Vincent and the
  Grenadines 2, Slovakia 4) (2008)

Italy
  total: 609
  by type: bulk carrier 60, cargo 47, carrier 2, chemical tanker 159,
  combination ore/oil 1, container 25, liquefied gas 27, passenger 22,
  passenger/cargo 154, petroleum tanker 35, refrigerated cargo 4, roll
  on/roll off 33, specialized tanker 13, vehicle carrier 27
  foreign-owned: 64 (Denmark 3, France 2, Greece 6, Japan 1, Lebanon
  1, Nigeria 1, Norway 2, Portugal 1, Sweden 1, Switzerland 8, Taiwan
  13, Turkey 1, UK 7, US 17)
  registered in other countries: 208 (Antigua and Barbuda 1, Bahamas
  4, Belize 3, Cayman Islands 4, Cyprus 7, France 2, Liberia 41, Malta
  50, Marshall Islands 3, Netherlands 1, Norway 4, Panama 28, Portugal
  12, Russia 4, Saint Kitts and Nevis 1, Saint Vincent and the
  Grenadines 17, Singapore 5, Slovakia 2, Spain 2, Sweden 9, Turkey 3,
  UK 5) (2008)

Jamaica
  total: 20
  by type: bulk carrier 6, cargo 6, carrier 1, container 4, roll
  on/roll off 3
  foreign-owned: 17 (Denmark 2, Germany 4, Greece 6, Hong Kong 1,
  Latvia 1, Russia 3) (2008)

Japan
  total: 683
  by type: bulk carrier 136, cargo 30, carrier 3, chemical tanker 27,
  container 11, liquefied gas 59, passenger 12, passenger/cargo 135,
  petroleum tanker 156, refrigerated cargo 2, roll on/roll off 51,
  vehicle carrier 61
  registered in other countries: 3,074 (Australia 1, Bahamas 87,
  Belize 8, Bermuda 2, Burma 1, Cambodia 1, Cayman Islands 13, China
  2, Cyprus 21, France 1, Honduras 4, Hong Kong 111, Indonesia 6, Isle
  of Man 6, Italy 1, South Korea 20, Liberia 116, Malaysia 4, Malta 8,
  Marshall Islands 17, Nigeria 1, Norway 29, Panama 2335, Philippines
  81, Portugal 15, Saint Kitts and Nevis 3, Saint Vincent and the
  Grenadines 3, Singapore 131, Thailand 4, UK 4, US 7, Vanuatu 29,
  Vietnam 1, unknown 1) (2008)

Jordan
  total: 21
  by type: cargo 8, container 1, passenger/cargo 7, petroleum tanker
  2, roll on/roll off 3
  foreign-owned: 13 (UAE 13)
  registered in other countries: 24 (Algeria 7, Bahamas 2, Panama 13,
  Syria 2) (2008)

Kazakhstan
  total: 5
  by type: petroleum tanker 4, refrigerated cargo 1 (2008)

Kenya
  total: 1
  by type: petroleum tanker 1
  registered in other countries: 6 (Bahamas 1, Comoros 1, Saint
  Vincent and the Grenadines 2, Tuvalu 1, unknown 1) (2008)

Kiribati
  total: 43
  by type: bulk carrier 2, cargo 18, chemical tanker 3, petroleum
  tanker 6, refrigerated cargo 14
  foreign-owned: 31 (China 15, Hong Kong 4, South Korea 2, Singapore
  4, Taiwan 5, Turkey 1) (2008)

Korea, North
  total: 167
  by type: bulk carrier 11, cargo 121, carrier 1, chemical tanker 4,
  container 3, passenger/cargo 3, petroleum tanker 19, refrigerated
  cargo 4, roll on/roll off 1
  foreign-owned: 19 (Egypt 1, Greece 1, Lebanon 1, Lithuania 1,
  Romania 4, Syria 1, UAE 8, Yemen 2)
  registered in other countries: 2 (Mongolia 1, Panama 1) (2008)

Korea, South
  total: 812
  by type: bulk carrier 212, cargo 226, carrier 2, chemical tanker
  133, container 80, liquefied gas 33, passenger 5, passenger/cargo
  26, petroleum tanker 61, refrigerated cargo 16, roll on/roll off 9,
  specialized tanker 4, vehicle carrier 5
  foreign-owned: 31 (China 1, Japan 20, Norway 2, UK 1, US 7)
  registered in other countries: 363 (Belize 1, Cambodia 22, China 1,
  Cyprus 1, Honduras 6, Hong Kong 3, Kiribati 2, Liberia 3, Malta 2,
  Marshall Islands 10, Mongolia 1, Netherlands 1, Panama 303, Russia
  1, Singapore 3, Tuvalu 1, unknown 2) (2008)

Kuwait
  total: 38
  by type: bulk carrier 2, cargo 1, carrier 3, container 6, liquefied
  gas 4, petroleum tanker 22
  registered in other countries: 34 (Bahrain 5, Comoros 1, Libya 1,
  Panama 2, Qatar 7, Saint Kitts and Nevis 1, Saudi Arabia 7, UAE 10)
  (2008)

Laos
  total: 1 ship (1000 GRT or over) 2,370 GRT/3,110 DWT
  by type: cargo 1 (2008)

Latvia
  total: 22
  by type: cargo 8, chemical tanker 3, liquefied gas 2,
  passenger/cargo 5, petroleum tanker 2, roll on/roll off 2
  foreign-owned: 2 (Estonia 2)
  registered in other countries: 118 (Antigua and Barbuda 13, Belize
  12, Cambodia 1, Cook Islands 1, Cyprus 1, Dominica 1, Jamaica 1,
  Liberia 21, Malta 19, Marshall Islands 16, Panama 8, Russia 2, Saint
  Kitts and Nevis 5, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 17) (2008)

Lebanon
  total: 33
  by type: bulk carrier 3, cargo 13, carrier 11, passenger/cargo 1,
  refrigerated cargo 1, roll on/roll off 2, vehicle carrier 2
  foreign-owned: 4 (Greece 2, Syria 2)
  registered in other countries: 55 (Barbados 1, Cambodia 8, Comoros
  4, Cyprus 1, Egypt 1, Georgia 4, Honduras 1, Italy 1, North Korea 1,
  Liberia 2, Malta 11, Mongolia 2, Panama 5, Saint Vincent and the
  Grenadines 6, Sierra Leone 1, Syria 3, Togo 1, unknown 2) (2008)

Liberia
  total: 2,204
  by type: barge carrier 3, bulk carrier 390, cargo 107, chemical
  tanker 241, combination ore/oil 7, container 750, liquefied gas 84,
  passenger 1, passenger/cargo 3, petroleum tanker 460, refrigerated
  cargo 103, roll on/roll off 7, specialized tanker 12, vehicle
  carrier 36
  foreign-owned: 2,109 (Argentina 3, Belgium 4, Brazil 3, Canada 7,
  China 11, Croatia 2, Cyprus 63, Denmark 12, Estonia 1, France 5,
  Germany 849, Gibraltar 5, Greece 358, Hong Kong 44, India 2,
  Indonesia 2, Isle of Man 5, Israel 23, Italy 41, Japan 116, South
  Korea 3, Latvia 21, Lebanon 2, Mexico 2, Monaco 8, Netherlands 6,
  Nigeria 2, Norway 40, Poland 13, Qatar 4, Romania 2, Russia 94,
  Saudi Arabia 27, Singapore 32, Slovenia 3, Sweden 10, Switzerland
  13, Taiwan 91, Turkey 7, Ukraine 25, UAE 23, UK 20, US 98, Uruguay
  3, Vietnam 4) (2008)

Libya
  total: 17
  by type: cargo 9, liquefied gas 3, petroleum tanker 4, roll on/roll
  off 1
  foreign-owned: 4 (Kuwait 1, Norway 1, Syria 2)
  registered in other countries: 3 (Malta 3) (2008)

Lithuania
  total: 45
  by type: cargo 23, container 2, passenger/cargo 6, petroleum tanker
  1, refrigerated cargo 13
  foreign-owned: 6 (Denmark 5, Ukraine 1)
  registered in other countries: 28 (Antigua and Barbuda 5, Cook
  Islands 1, North Korea 1, Malta 1, Norway 1, Panama 7, Saint Vincent
  and the Grenadines 9, unknown 3) (2008)

Luxembourg
  total: 45
  by type: bulk carrier 6, cargo 3, chemical tanker 15, container 4,
  liquefied gas 1, passenger 3, passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 3,
  roll on/roll off 9
  foreign-owned: 44 (Belgium 7, Denmark 1, France 17, Germany 5,
  Netherlands 2, UK 8, US 4)
  registered in other countries: 1 (Ukraine 1) (2008)

Madagascar
  total: 8
  by type: cargo 4, passenger/cargo 2, petroleum tanker 2 (2008)

Malaysia
  total: 306
  by type: bulk carrier 12, cargo 97, carrier 1, chemical tanker 34,
  container 46, liquefied gas 33, passenger/cargo 5, petroleum tanker
  71, roll on/roll off 3, vehicle carrier 4
  foreign-owned: 40 (Germany 1, Hong Kong 14, Japan 4, Russia 2,
  Singapore 16, Sweden 3)
  registered in other countries: 68 (Bahamas 13, Marshall Islands 3,
  Norway 1, Panama 12, Philippines 1, Saint Kitts and Nevis 1,
  Singapore 27, Thailand 3, Tuvalu 1, US 2, unknown 4) (2008)

Maldives
  total: 29
  by type: bulk carrier 1, cargo 23, petroleum tanker 3, refrigerated
  cargo 2
  foreign-owned: 1 (Greece 1)
  registered in other countries: 2 (Panama 1, Tuvalu 1) (2008)

Malta
  total: 1,438
  by type: bulk carrier 459, cargo 411, carrier 2, chemical tanker
  171, container 80, liquefied gas 25, passenger 29, passenger/cargo
  15, petroleum tanker 159, refrigerated cargo 32, roll on/roll off
  37, specialized tanker 1, vehicle carrier 17
  foreign-owned: 1,343 (Austria 1, Azerbaijan 2, Bangladesh 2, Belgium
  15, Bulgaria 5, Canada 1, China 12, Croatia 9, Cyprus 31, Denmark
  30, Egypt 1, Estonia 11, France 5, Germany 91, Greece 452, Hong Kong
  1, Iceland 5, India 2, Iran 79, Israel 18, Italy 50, Japan 8, South
  Korea 2, Latvia 19, Lebanon 11, Libya 3, Lithuania 1, Norway 93,
  Pakistan 2, Poland 24, Portugal 3, Romania 8, Russia 58, Slovenia 4,
  Spain 3, Sweden 2, Switzerland 20, Syria 6, Turkey 176, Ukraine 30,
  UAE 5, UK 19, US 23)
  registered in other countries: 3 (Panama 3) (2008)

Marshall Islands
  total: 1,049
  by type: barge carrier 1, bulk carrier 284, cargo 71, carrier 1,
  chemical tanker 191, combination ore/oil 4, container 188, liquefied
  gas 47, passenger 5, passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 221,
  refrigerated cargo 13, roll on/roll off 14, specialized tanker 2,
  vehicle carrier 6
  foreign-owned: 990 (Australia 1, Bermuda 4, Brazil 1, Canada 6,
  Chile 4, China 7, Croatia 6, Cyprus 37, Denmark 10, Germany 235,
  Greece 269, Hong Kong 4, Iceland 3, India 1, Ireland 1, Isle of Man
  1, Italy 3, Japan 17, South Korea 10, Latvia 16, Malaysia 3, Mexico
  4, Monaco 13, Netherlands 8, Norway 66, Pakistan 1, Panama 1,
  Romania 1, Russia 9, Saudi Arabia 5, Singapore 18, Slovenia 4, Spain
  1, Sweden 1, Switzerland 12, Taiwan 1, Turkey 50, UAE 15, UK 9, UK
  9, US 123) (2008)

Mauritius
  total: 3
  by type: passenger/cargo 2, refrigerated cargo 1 (2008)

Mexico
  total: 55
  by type: bulk carrier 2, cargo 7, chemical tanker 5, liquefied gas
  4, passenger/cargo 11, petroleum tanker 23, roll on/roll off 3
  foreign-owned: 4 (Denmark 2, Hong Kong 1, UAE 1)
  registered in other countries: 20 (Brazil 1, Honduras 1, Liberia 2,
  Marshall Islands 4, Panama 2, Portugal 1, Spain 3, Venezuela 5,
  unknown 1) (2008)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  total: 3
  by type: cargo 1, passenger/cargo 2 (2008)

Moldova
  total: 39
  by type: bulk carrier 2, cargo 32, chemical tanker 2, combination
  ore/oil 2, petroleum tanker 1
  foreign-owned: 17 (Egypt 1, Romania 3, Russia 3, Syria 1, Turkey 3,
  Ukraine 5, Yemen 1) (2008)

Monaco
  registered in other countries: 70 (Bahamas 15, Georgia 4,
  Isle of Man 3, Liberia 8, Marshall Islands 13, Norway 5, Panama 16,
  Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 5, Vanuatu 1) (2008)

Mongolia
  total: 77
  by type: bulk carrier 20, cargo 44, chemical tanker 2, liquefied gas
  1, passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 2, roll on/roll off 6,
  vehicle carrier 1
  foreign-owned: 53 (China 1, Germany 4, Indonesia 1, North Korea 1,
  South Korea 1, Lebanon 2, Russia 9, Singapore 9, Thailand 1, Ukraine
  1, Vietnam 23) (2008)

Montenegro
  total: 6
  by type: cargo 5, passenger/cargo 1
  registered in other countries: 3 (Bahamas 2, Saint Vincent and the
  Grenadines 1) (2008)

Morocco
  total: 35
  by type: cargo 3, chemical tanker 6, container 8, passenger/cargo
  13, petroleum tanker 1, roll on/roll off 4
  foreign-owned: 16 (France 14, Germany 2)
  registered in other countries: 4 (Gibraltar 4) (2008)

Mozambique
  total: 2
  by type: cargo 2
  foreign-owned: 2 (Belgium 2) (2008)

Namibia
  total: 1
  by type: cargo 1
  registered in other countries: 1 (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  1) (2008)

Netherlands
  total: 622
  by type: bulk carrier 9, cargo 381, carrier 19, chemical tanker 44,
  container 76, liquefied gas 15, passenger 16, passenger/cargo 15,
  petroleum tanker 11, refrigerated cargo 10, roll on/roll off 23,
  specialized tanker 3
  foreign-owned: 203 (Belgium 2, Cyprus 8, Denmark 29, Finland 14,
  France 1, Germany 75, Ireland 10, Italy 1, South Korea 1, Norway 12,
  Sweden 28, Turkey 1, UAE 5, UK 2, US 14)
  registered in other countries: 178 (Antigua and Barbuda 20,
  Australia 2, Austria 2, Bahamas 9, Cambodia 1, Canada 1, Cyprus 22,
  Germany 1, Gibraltar 21, Isle of Man 1, Liberia 6, Luxembourg 2,
  Marshall Islands 8, Netherlands Antilles 38, Panama 14, Paraguay 1,
  Philippines 23, Portugal 1, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 3, US
  1, unknown 1) (2008)

Netherlands Antilles
  total: 147
  by type: barge carrier 2, bulk carrier 2, cargo 72, carrier 19,
  chemical tanker 2, container 8, liquefied gas 1, passenger 2,
  petroleum tanker 3, refrigerated cargo 27, roll on/roll off 6,
  specialized tanker 3
  foreign-owned: 123 (Belgium 1, Cuba 1, Cyprus 21, Denmark 2, Germany
  43, Hong Kong 2, Netherlands 38, Norway 3, Sweden 1, Turkey 10, US
  1) (2008)

New Caledonia
  total: 2
  by type: cargo 1, passenger/cargo 1 (2008)

New Zealand
  total: 13
  by type: bulk carrier 3, cargo 2, chemical tanker 1, passenger/cargo
  4, petroleum tanker 1, roll on/roll off 2
  foreign-owned: 3 (Australia 1, Germany 1, South Africa 1)
  registered in other countries: 5 (Antigua and Barbuda 2, Cook
  Islands 1, France 1, UK 1) (2008)

Nigeria
  total: 68
  by type: cargo 4, chemical tanker 12, combination ore/oil 1,
  liquefied gas 2, passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 46, specialized
  tanker 2
  foreign-owned: 3 (Japan 1, South Africa 1, Spain 1)
  registered in other countries: 34 (Bahamas 2, Bermuda 11, Cook
  Islands 1, Georgia 1, Italy 1, Liberia 2, Panama 10, Poland 1,
  Seychelles 1, Sierra Leone 1, unknown 3) (2008)

Norway
  total: 688
  by type: bulk carrier 46, cargo 141, carrier 3, chemical tanker 137,
  combination ore/oil 12, container 4, liquefied gas 65,
  passenger/cargo 117, petroleum tanker 85, refrigerated cargo 14,
  roll on/roll off 13, specialized tanker 1, vehicle carrier 50
  foreign-owned: 199 (Canada 3, Canada 7, Chile 2, China 36, Denmark
  25, Estonia 1, Finland 1, France 3, Germany 1, Greece 3, Hong Kong
  20, Iceland 3, Italy 4, Japan 29, Lithuania 1, Malaysia 1, Monaco 5,
  Poland 3, Saudi Arabia 3, Singapore 1, Sweden 34, UK 5, US 8)
  registered in other countries: 923 (Antigua and Barbuda 8, Australia
  1, Bahamas 189, Barbados 38, Belize 3, Bermuda 5, Brazil 5, Canada
  3, Cayman Islands 1, China 1, Comoros 1, Cook Islands 5, Cyprus 18,
  Denmark 1, Denmark 2, Dominica 1, Estonia 2, Faroe Islands 4,
  Finland 3, France 5, Gibraltar 33, Hong Kong 40, Indonesia 1, Isle
  of Man 20, Italy 2, South Korea 2, Liberia 40, Libya 1, Malta 93,
  Marshall Islands 66, Netherlands 12, Netherlands Antilles 3, Panama
  89, Philippines 10, Russia 2, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 13,
  Singapore 143, Spain 5, Sweden 7, Tuvalu 1, UK 31, US 9, unknown 4)
  (2008)

Oman
  total: 3
  by type: chemical tanker 1, passenger 1, passenger/cargo 1
  registered in other countries: 2 (Panama 2) (2008)

Pakistan
  total: 15
  by type: bulk carrier 1, cargo 10, petroleum tanker 4
  registered in other countries: 19 (Comoros 4, Malta 2, Marshall
  Islands 1, Panama 9, Saint Kitts and Nevis 3) (2008)

Panama
  total: 6,323
  by type: barge carrier 2, bulk carrier 2,143, cargo 1,208, carrier
  13, chemical tanker 565, combination ore/oil 6, container 790,
  liquefied gas 189, passenger 44, passenger/cargo 71, petroleum
  tanker 557, refrigerated cargo 265, roll on/roll off 128,
  specialized tanker 29, vehicle carrier 313
  foreign-owned: 5,394 (Albania 2, Argentina 8, Australia 4,
  Azerbaijan 1, Bahamas 9, Bangladesh 2, Belgium 2, British Virgin
  Islands 1, Bulgaria 3, Burma 1, Canada 18, Chile 12, China 532,
  Colombia 4, Croatia 3, Cuba 10, Cyprus 19, Denmark 40, Dominican
  Republic 1, Ecuador 4, Egypt 17, Estonia 5, Finland 2, France 5,
  Gabon 1, Germany 44, Gibraltar 1, Greece 510, Hong Kong 130, India
  27, Indonesia 31, Iran 7, Israel 3, Italy 28, Japan 2,335, Jordan
  13, North Korea 1, South Korea 303, Kuwait 2, Latvia 8, Lebanon 5,
  Lithuania 7, Malaysia 12, Maldives 1, Malta 3, Mexico 2, Monaco 16,
  Netherlands 14, Nigeria 10, Norway 89, Oman 2, Pakistan 9, Peru 16,
  Philippines 7, Poland 11, Portugal 9, Qatar 1, Romania 7, Russia 18,
  Saudi Arabia 16, Singapore 100, Spain 50, Sri Lanka 1, Sweden 6,
  Switzerland 25, Syria 32, Taiwan 320, Thailand 10, Tunisia 1, Turkey
  94, Turks and Caicos Islands 1, Ukraine 10, UAE 109, UK 59, US 126,
  Venezuela 10, Vietnam 30, Yemen 6)
  registered in other countries: 3 (Marshall Islands 1, Sierra Leone
  1, Venezuela 1) (2008)

Papua New Guinea
  total: 21
  by type: bulk carrier 2, cargo 17, petroleum tanker 2
  foreign-owned: 6 (UAE 6) (2008)

Paraguay
  total: 23
  by type: cargo 18, carrier 1, passenger 1, petroleum tanker 2, roll
  on/roll off 1
  foreign-owned: 6 (Argentina 5, Netherlands 1) (2008)

Peru
  total: 8
  by type: cargo 3, chemical tanker 1, petroleum tanker 4
  foreign-owned: 1 (Bahamas 1)
  registered in other countries: 17 (Belize 1, Panama 16) (2008)

Philippines
  total: 391
  by type: bulk carrier 75, cargo 125, carrier 16, chemical tanker 17,
  container 6, liquefied gas 5, passenger 6, passenger/cargo 68,
  petroleum tanker 36, refrigerated cargo 15, roll on/roll off 11,
  vehicle carrier 11
  foreign-owned: 161 (Bermuda 34, China 4, Greece 4, Hong Kong 1,
  Japan 81, Malaysia 1, Netherlands 23, Norway 10, Singapore 1, Taiwan
  1, UAE 1)
  registered in other countries: 11 (Comoros 1, Cyprus 1, Hong Kong 1,
  Indonesia 1, Panama 7) (2008)

Poland
  total: 15
  by type: cargo 8, chemical tanker 4, passenger/cargo 1, roll on/roll
  off 1, vehicle carrier 1
  foreign-owned: 2 (Cyprus 1, Nigeria 1)
  registered in other countries: 98 (Antigua and Barbuda 2, Bahamas
  17, Cyprus 18, Liberia 13, Malta 24, Norway 3, Panama 11, Saint
  Vincent and the Grenadines 1, Slovakia 2, Vanuatu 7) (2008)

Portugal
  total: 117
  by type: bulk carrier 10, cargo 36, carrier 1, chemical tanker 15,
  container 6, liquefied gas 9, passenger 10, passenger/cargo 9,
  petroleum tanker 4, roll on/roll off 1, specialized tanker 1,
  vehicle carrier 15
  foreign-owned: 84 (Bahamas 1, Belgium 7, Belgium 1, Denmark 3,
  Germany 20, Greece 4, Hong Kong 2, Italy 12, Japan 15, Mexico 1,
  Netherlands 1, Spain 11, Sweden 3, Switzerland 2, US 1)
  registered in other countries: 15 (Cyprus 1, Hong Kong 1, Italy 1,
  Malta 3, Panama 9) (2008)

Puerto Rico
  total: 3
  by type: roll on/roll off 3
  foreign-owned: 3 (US 3)
  registered in other countries: 1 (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  1) (2008)

Qatar
  total: 22
  by type: bulk carrier 2, cargo 2, chemical tanker 2, container 8,
  liquefied gas 4, petroleum tanker 4
  foreign-owned: 7 (Kuwait 7)
  registered in other countries: 5 (Liberia 4, Panama 1) (2008)

Romania
  total: 17
  by type: cargo 11, passenger 1, passenger/cargo 2, petroleum tanker
  2, roll on/roll off 1
  registered in other countries: 49 (Cambodia 1, Georgia 16, North
  Korea 4, Liberia 2, Malta 8, Marshall Islands 1, Moldova 3, Panama
  7, Saint Kitts and Nevis 1, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 1,
  Sierra Leone 3, Syria 2) (2008)

Russia
  total: 1,074
  by type: bulk carrier 25, cargo 663, carrier 2, chemical tanker 27,
  combination ore/oil 34, container 11, passenger 14, passenger/cargo
  7, petroleum tanker 217, refrigerated cargo 59, roll on/roll off 10,
  specialized tanker 5
  foreign-owned: 112 (Belgium 4, Cyprus 2, Germany 1, Greece 1, Italy
  4, South Korea 1, Latvia 2, Norway 2, Switzerland 3, Turkey 80,
  Ukraine 11, US 1)
  registered in other countries: 486 (Antigua and Barbuda 4, Bahamas
  4, Belize 31, Bulgaria 1, Cambodia 83, Comoros 12, Cyprus 50,
  Dominica 3, Georgia 12, Hong Kong 2, Jamaica 3, Liberia 94, Malaysia
  2, Malta 58, Marshall Islands 9, Moldova 3, Mongolia 9, Panama 18,
  Saint Kitts and Nevis 19, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 21,
  Sierra Leone 11, Slovakia 1, Tuvalu 2, Ukraine 1, Vanuatu 2, unknown
  31) (2008)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  total: 159
  by type: bulk carrier 10, cargo 109, chemical tanker 7, container 1,
  liquefied gas 1, passenger 1, passenger/cargo 2, petroleum tanker
  19, refrigerated cargo 7, roll on/roll off 1, specialized tanker 1
  foreign-owned: 121 (Belgium 1, Cyprus 1, Egypt 2, Estonia 3, Finland
  1, Greece 3, India 1, Italy 1, Japan 3, Kuwait 1, Latvia 5, Malaysia
  1, Pakistan 3, Romania 1, Russia 19, Singapore 1, Spain 1, Syria 7,
  Turkey 35, Ukraine 9, UAE 18, UK 3, Yemen 1) (2008)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  total: 525
  by type: barge carrier 1, bulk carrier 83, cargo 315, carrier 20,
  chemical tanker 2, liquefied gas 6, passenger 3, passenger/cargo 17,
  petroleum tanker 17, refrigerated cargo 20, roll on/roll off 18,
  specialized tanker 2, container 21
  foreign-owned: 476 (Austria 2, Barbados 1, Belgium 8, Bulgaria 15,
  Canada 1, China 94, Croatia 7, Cyprus 1, Czech Republic 1, Denmark
  16, Egypt 3, Estonia 16, France 6, Germany 3, Gibraltar 1, Greece
  71, Guyana 2, Hong Kong 6, Iceland 7, India 7, Iran 1, Israel 2,
  Italy 17, Japan 3, Kenya 2, Latvia 17, Lebanon 6, Lithuania 9,
  Monaco 5, Montenegro 1, Namibia 1, Netherlands 3, Norway 13, Poland
  1, Puerto Rico 1, Romania 1, Russia 21, Singapore 4, Slovenia 5,
  South Africa 1, Sweden 2, Switzerland 6, Syria 13, Turkey 20,
  Ukraine 11, UAE 9, UK 13, UK 1, US 18, Venezuela 1) (2008)

Samoa
  total: 1
  by type: cargo 1
  foreign-owned: 1 (Cyprus 1) (2008)

Sao Tome and Principe
  total: 6
  by type: bulk carrier 1, cargo 5
  foreign-owned: 1 (Greece 1) (2008)

Saudi Arabia
  total: 62
  by type: cargo 5, chemical tanker 13, container 5, passenger/cargo
  8, petroleum tanker 20, refrigerated cargo 3, roll on/roll off 8
  foreign-owned: 12 (Egypt 1, Greece 3, Kuwait 7, UAE 1)
  registered in other countries: 71 (Bahamas 16, Comoros 1, Dominica
  2, France 1, Liberia 27, Marshall Islands 5, Norway 3, Panama 16)
  (2008)

Seychelles
  total: 8
  by type: cargo 1, carrier 1, chemical tanker 6
  foreign-owned: 3 (Hong Kong 1, Nigeria 1, South Africa 1) (2008)

Sierra Leone
  total: 182
  by type: bulk carrier 4, cargo 143, carrier 2, chemical tanker 3,
  container 6, liquefied gas 2, passenger 1, passenger/cargo 6,
  petroleum tanker 10, roll on/roll off 3, specialized tanker 2
  foreign-owned: 95 (Belgium 1, China 15, Egypt 3, Greece 1, Hong Kong
  1, Lebanon 1, Nigeria 1, Panama 1, Romania 3, Russia 11, Syria 18,
  Taiwan 1, Turkey 15, Ukraine 10, UAE 8, UK 2, US 1, Yemen 2) (2008)

Singapore
  total: 1,292
  by type: bulk carrier 167, cargo 87, carrier 5, chemical tanker 209,
  container 273, liquefied gas 96, petroleum tanker 386, refrigerated
  cargo 5, roll on/roll off 4, specialized tanker 7, vehicle carrier 53
  foreign-owned: 774 (Australia 12, Bangladesh 2, Belgium 8, Chile 6,
  China 14, Cyprus 1, Denmark 87, France 1, Germany 24, Greece 15,
  Hong Kong 47, India 13, Indonesia 66, Italy 5, Japan 131, South
  Korea 3, Malaysia 27, Norway 143, Slovenia 1, Sweden 20, Switzerland
  2, Taiwan 72, Thailand 23, UAE 12, UK 17, US 22)
  registered in other countries: 331 (Australia 1, Bahamas 17, Belize
  2, Bolivia 1, Cambodia 4, Cayman Islands 10, Comoros 1, Cyprus 3,
  Dominica 7, France 2, Honduras 12, Hong Kong 18, Indonesia 27, Isle
  of Man 1, Kiribati 4, Liberia 32, Malaysia 16, Marshall Islands 18,
  Mongolia 9, Norway 1, Panama 100, Philippines 1, Saint Kitts and
  Nevis 1, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 4, Thailand 2, Tuvalu 23,
  US 12, unknown 2) (2008)

Slovakia
  total: 51
  by type: bulk carrier 5, cargo 42, refrigerated cargo 4
  foreign-owned: 47 (Bulgaria 6, Germany 3, Greece 2, Ireland 1,
  Israel 4, Italy 2, Poland 2, Russia 1, Slovenia 1, Syria 2, Turkey
  10, Ukraine 12, UK 1) (2008)

Slovenia
  registered in other countries: 29 (Antigua and Barbuda 6,
  Bahamas 1, Cyprus 4, Liberia 3, Malta 4, Marshall Islands 4, Saint
  Vincent and the Grenadines 5, Singapore 1, Slovakia 1) (2008)

Somalia
  total: 1
  by type: cargo 1
  foreign-owned: 1 (UAE 1) (2008)

South Africa
  total: 3
  by type: container 1, petroleum tanker 2
  foreign-owned: 1 (Denmark 1)
  registered in other countries: 8 (Bahamas 1, Nigeria 1, NZ 1, Saint
  Vincent and the Grenadines 1, Seychelles 1, UK 3) (2008)

Spain
  total: 158
  by type: bulk carrier 9, cargo 14, chemical tanker 11, container 22,
  liquefied gas 11, passenger 1, passenger/cargo 47, petroleum tanker
  16, refrigerated cargo 5, roll on/roll off 15, specialized tanker 2,
  vehicle carrier 5
  foreign-owned: 26 (Canada 3, Canada 1, Denmark 2, Germany 5, Italy
  2, Mexico 3, Norway 5, UK 3, UK 2)
  registered in other countries: 110 (Angola 1, Argentina 2, Bahamas
  14, Belize 1, Brazil 9, Cape Verde 1, Cuba 1, Cyprus 6, Malta 3,
  Marshall Islands 1, Nigeria 1, Panama 50, Portugal 11, Saint Kitts
  and Nevis 1, UK 1, Uruguay 6, Venezuela 1) (2008)

Sri Lanka
  total: 26
  by type: bulk carrier 4, cargo 18, chemical tanker 1, container 1,
  petroleum tanker 2
  foreign-owned: 5 (Germany 5)
  registered in other countries: 1 (Panama 1) (2008)

Sudan
  total: 3
  by type: cargo 2, carrier 1 (2008)

Suriname
  total: 1
  by type: cargo 1 (2008)

Sweden
  total: 195
  by type: bulk carrier 6, cargo 23, carrier 1, chemical tanker 45,
  passenger 4, passenger/cargo 36, petroleum tanker 15, roll on/roll
  off 37, specialized tanker 3, vehicle carrier 25
  foreign-owned: 41 (Denmark 4, Estonia 2, Finland 12, Germany 5,
  Italy 9, Norway 7, UK 2)
  registered in other countries: 207 (Antigua and Barbuda 1, Bahamas
  4, Barbados 7, Bermuda 20, Cook Islands 8, Cyprus 2, Denmark 6,
  Finland 2, France 9, Germany 1, Gibraltar 13, Isle of Man 1, Italy
  1, Liberia 10, Malaysia 3, Malta 2, Marshall Islands 1, Netherlands
  28, Netherlands Antilles 1, Norway 31, Norway 3, Panama 6, Portugal
  3, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 2, Singapore 20, UK 17, US 5)
  (2008)

Switzerland
  total: 35
  by type: bulk carrier 13, cargo 9, chemical tanker 6, container 6,
  specialized tanker 1
  registered in other countries: 106 (Antigua and Barbuda 8, Bahamas
  1, France 3, Italy 8, Liberia 13, Malta 20, Marshall Islands 12,
  Panama 25, Portugal 2, Russia 3, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 6,
  Singapore 2, Tonga 1, UK 1, Vanuatu 1) (2008)

Syria
  total: 77
  by type: bulk carrier 5, cargo 65, carrier 4, container 1, petroleum
  tanker 1, roll on/roll off 1
  foreign-owned: 7 (Jordan 2, Lebanon 3, Romania 2)
  registered in other countries: 196 (Barbados 1, Bolivia 2, Cambodia
  48, Comoros 4, Cyprus 2, Dominica 2, Georgia 49, Hong Kong 1, North
  Korea 1, Lebanon 2, Libya 2, Malta 6, Moldova 1, Panama 32, Saint
  Kitts and Nevis 7, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 13, Sierra Leone
  18, Slovakia 2, Togo 2, unknown 1) (2008)

Taiwan
  total: 102
  by type: bulk carrier 32, cargo 19, chemical tanker 1, container 24,
  passenger/cargo 3, petroleum tanker 14, refrigerated cargo 7, roll
  on/roll off 2
  foreign-owned: 3 (Canada 2, France 1)
  registered in other countries: 536 (Bolivia 1, Cambodia 1, Honduras
  2, Hong Kong 11, Indonesia 2, Italy 13, Kiribati 5, Liberia 91,
  Marshall Islands 1, Panama 320, Philippines 1, Sierra Leone 1,
  Singapore 72, Thailand 1, UK 11, unknown 3) (2008)

Tanzania
  total: 9
  by type: cargo 1, passenger/cargo 4, petroleum tanker 4
  registered in other countries: 1 (Honduras 1) (2008)

Thailand
  total: 398
  by type: bulk carrier 53, cargo 135, chemical tanker 15, container
  22, liquefied gas 28, passenger/cargo 10, petroleum tanker 100,
  refrigerated cargo 32, specialized tanker 2, vehicle carrier 1
  foreign-owned: 16 (China 1, Japan 4, Malaysia 3, Singapore 2, Taiwan
  1, UK 5)
  registered in other countries: 40 (Bahamas 5, Mongolia 1, Panama 10,
  Singapore 23, Tuvalu 1) (2008)

Timor-Leste
  total: 1
  by type: passenger/cargo 1 (2008)

Togo
  total: 10
  by type: cargo 9, refrigerated cargo 1
  foreign-owned: 6 (Bangladesh 1, Denmark 1, Egypt 1, Lebanon 1, Syria
  2) (2008)

Tonga
  total: 13
  by type: bulk carrier 1, cargo 8, carrier 1, liquefied gas 1,
  passenger/cargo 1, refrigerated cargo 1
  foreign-owned: 4 (Australia 1, Cyprus 1, Switzerland 1, UK 1) (2008)

Trinidad and Tobago
  total: 9
  by type: passenger 2, passenger/cargo 5, petroleum tanker 2
  foreign-owned: 1 (US 1)
  registered in other countries: 2 (Bahamas 1, unknown 1) (2008)

Tunisia
  total: 7
  by type: bulk carrier 1, cargo 1, chemical tanker 1, passenger/cargo
  4
  registered in other countries: 1 (Panama 1) (2008)

Turkey
  total: 612
  by type: bulk carrier 101, cargo 281, chemical tanker 70,
  combination ore/oil 1, container 35, liquefied gas 7, passenger 4,
  passenger/cargo 51, petroleum tanker 31, refrigerated cargo 1, roll
  on/roll off 28, specialized tanker 2
  foreign-owned: 8 (Cyprus 2, Germany 1, Greece 1, Italy 3, UAE 1)
  registered in other countries: 595 (Albania 1, Antigua and Barbuda
  6, Bahamas 8, Belize 15, Cambodia 26, Comoros 8, Dominica 5, Georgia
  14, Greece 1, Isle of Man 2, Italy 1, Kiribati 1, Liberia 7, Malta
  176, Marshall Islands 50, Moldova 3, Netherlands 1, Netherlands
  Antilles 10, Panama 94, Russia 80, Saint Kitts and Nevis 35, Saint
  Vincent and the Grenadines 20, Sierra Leone 15, Slovakia 10, Tuvalu
  2, UK 2, unknown 2) (2008)

Turkmenistan
  total: 7
  by type: cargo 4, petroleum tanker 2, refrigerated cargo 1 (2008)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  registered in other countries: 1 (Panama 1)
  (2008)

Tuvalu
  total: 80
  by type: bulk carrier 7, cargo 30, chemical tanker 14, container 2,
  passenger 2, passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 22, refrigerated
  cargo 1, specialized tanker 1
  foreign-owned: 63 (China 16, Hong Kong 7, Kenya 1, South Korea 1,
  Malaysia 1, Maldives 1, Norway 1, Russia 2, Singapore 23, Thailand
  1, Turkey 2, Ukraine 1, US 1, Vietnam 5) (2008)

Ukraine
  total: 189
  by type: bulk carrier 6, cargo 141, chemical tanker 1, container 3,
  passenger 6, passenger/cargo 3, petroleum tanker 9, refrigerated
  cargo 11, roll on/roll off 7, specialized tanker 2
  foreign-owned: 2 (Luxembourg 1, Russia 1)
  registered in other countries: 204 (Belize 7, Cambodia 34, Comoros
  8, Cyprus 4, Dominica 4, Georgia 18, Liberia 25, Lithuania 1, Malta
  30, Moldova 5, Mongolia 1, Panama 10, Russia 11, Saint Kitts and
  Nevis 9, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 11, Sierra Leone 10,
  Slovakia 12, Tuvalu 1, unknown 3) (2008)

United Arab Emirates
  total: 58
  by type: bulk carrier 6, cargo 9, chemical tanker 4, container 8,
  liquefied gas 1, passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 24, roll
  on/roll off 4, specialized tanker 1
  foreign-owned: 14 (Denmark 1, Greece 3, Kuwait 10)
  registered in other countries: 313 (Bahamas 23, Bahrain 1, Belize 5,
  Cambodia 2, Comoros 7, Cyprus 9, Dominica 1, Georgia 1, Gibraltar 3,
  Hong Kong 1, India 6, Indonesia 2, Iran 1, Jordan 13, North Korea 8,
  Liberia 23, Malta 5, Marshall Islands 15, Mexico 1, Netherlands 5,
  Panama 109, Papua New Guinea 6, Philippines 1, Saint Kitts and Nevis
  18, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 9, Saudi Arabia 1, Sierra Leone
  8, Singapore 12, Somalia 1, Turkey 1, UK 9, unknown 6) (2008)

United Kingdom
  total: 518
  by type: bulk carrier 33, cargo 67, carrier 5, chemical tanker 61,
  container 180, liquefied gas 18, passenger 10, passenger/cargo 67,
  petroleum tanker 23, refrigerated cargo 12, roll on/roll off 24,
  vehicle carrier 18
  foreign-owned: 264 (Cyprus 2, Denmark 62, Finland 1, France 23,
  Germany 76, Hong Kong 2, Ireland 1, Italy 5, Japan 4, NZ 1, Norway
  31, South Africa 3, Spain 1, Sweden 17, Switzerland 1, Taiwan 11,
  Turkey 2, UAE 9, US 12)
  registered in other countries: 391 (Algeria 11, Antigua and Barbuda
  9, Argentina 4, Australia 5, Bahamas 56, Barbados 9, Belize 5,
  Bermuda 3, Brunei 1, Cape Verde 1, Cayman Islands 3, Cyprus 19,
  Gibraltar 2, Greece 32, Hong Kong 39, India 2, Italy 7, South Korea
  1, Liberia 20, Luxembourg 8, Malta 19, Marshall Islands 18,
  Netherlands 2, Norway 5, Panama 59, Saint Kitts and Nevis 3, Saint
  Vincent and the Grenadines 14, Sierra Leone 2, Singapore 17,
  Slovakia 1, Spain 5, Sweden 2, Thailand 5, Tonga 1, US 1) (2008)

United States
  total: 422
  by type: barge carrier 6, bulk carrier 61, cargo 69, carrier 2,
  chemical tanker 22, container 81, passenger 19, passenger/cargo 59,
  petroleum tanker 53, refrigerated cargo 3, roll on/roll off 25,
  vehicle carrier 22
  foreign-owned: 74 (Australia 1, Denmark 31, Germany 5, Japan 7,
  Malaysia 2, Netherlands 1, Norway 9, Singapore 12, Sweden 5, UK 1)
  registered in other countries: 732 (Antigua and Barbuda 8, Australia
  2, Bahamas 106, Bermuda 23, Cambodia 6, Canada 10, Cayman Islands
  42, Comoros 2, Cyprus 5, Ecuador 1, Greece 8, Hong Kong 29, Ireland
  2, Isle of Man 4, Italy 17, South Korea 7, Liberia 98, Luxembourg 4,
  Malta 23, Marshall Islands 123, Netherlands 14, Netherlands Antilles
  1, Norway 1, Norway 7, Panama 126, Portugal 1, Puerto Rico 3, Russia
  1, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 18, Sierra Leone 1, Singapore
  22, Trinidad and Tobago 1, Tuvalu 1, UK 12, Vanuatu 1, unknown 2)
  (2008)

Uruguay
  total: 17
  by type: cargo 3, chemical tanker 2, passenger/cargo 9, petroleum
  tanker 2, roll on/roll off 1
  foreign-owned: 10 (Argentina 3, Greece 1, Spain 6)
  registered in other countries: 3 (Liberia 3) (2008)

Vanuatu
  total: 54
  by type: bulk carrier 32, cargo 8, container 1, liquefied gas 2,
  passenger 1, petroleum tanker 1, refrigerated cargo 4, vehicle
  carrier 5
  foreign-owned: 54 (Australia 2, Belgium 4, Canada 5, Estonia 1,
  Greece 1, Japan 29, Monaco 1, Poland 7, Russia 2, Switzerland 1, US
  1) (2008)

Venezuela
  total: 62
  by type: bulk carrier 9, cargo 16, chemical tanker 3, liquefied gas
  5, passenger/cargo 10, petroleum tanker 17, refrigerated cargo 2
  foreign-owned: 12 (Chile 1, Denmark 1, Greece 3, Mexico 5, Panama 1,
  Spain 1)
  registered in other countries: 12 (Bahamas 1, Panama 10, Saint
  Vincent and the Grenadines 1) (2008)

Vietnam
  total: 387
  by type: barge carrier 1, bulk carrier 36, cargo 280, chemical
  tanker 12, container 14, liquefied gas 6, passenger 1,
  passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 32, refrigerated cargo 2, roll
  on/roll off 1, specialized tanker 1
  foreign-owned: 2 (Hong Kong 1, Japan 1)
  registered in other countries: 64 (Honduras 1, Liberia 4, Mongolia
  23, Panama 30, Tuvalu 5, unknown 1) (2008)

Wallis and Futuna
  total: 8
  by type: chemical tanker 2, passenger 6
  foreign-owned: 8 (France 6, French Polynesia 2) (2008)

Yemen
  total: 4
  by type: cargo 1, chemical tanker 1, petroleum tanker 1, roll
  on/roll off 1
  registered in other countries: 13 (North Korea 2, Moldova 1, Panama
  6, Saint Kitts and Nevis 1, Sierra Leone 2, unknown 1) (2008)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2109  National holiday


Afghanistan
  Independence Day, 19 August (1919)

Albania
  Independence Day, 28 November (1912)

Algeria
  Revolution Day, 1 November (1954)

American Samoa
  Flag Day, 17 April (1900)

Andorra
  Our Lady of Meritxell Day, 8 September (1278)

Angola
  Independence Day, 11 November (1975)

Anguilla
  Anguilla Day, 30 May (1967)

Antigua and Barbuda
  Independence Day (National Day), 1 November
  (1981)

Argentina
  Revolution Day, 25 May (1810)

Armenia
  Independence Day, 21 September (1991)

Aruba
  Flag Day, 18 March (1976)

Australia
  Australia Day, 26 January (1788); ANZAC Day (commemorated
  as the anniversary of the landing of troops of the Australian and
  New Zealand Army Corps during World War I at Gallipoli, Turkey), 25
  April (1915)

Austria
  National Day, 26 October (1955); note - commemorates the
  passage of the law on permanent neutrality

Azerbaijan
  Founding of the Democratic Republic of Azerbaijan, 28 May
  (1918)

Bahamas, The
  Independence Day, 10 July (1973)

Bahrain
  National Day, 16 December (1971); note - 15 August 1971 was
  the date of independence from the UK, 16 December 1971 was the date
  of independence from British protection

Bangladesh
  Independence Day, 26 March (1971); note - 26 March 1971
  is the date of independence from West Pakistan, 16 December 1971 is
  Victory Day and commemorates the official creation of the state of
  Bangladesh

Barbados
  Independence Day, 30 November (1966)

Belarus
  Independence Day, 3 July (1944); note - 3 July 1944 was the
  date Minsk was liberated from German troops, 25 August 1991 was the
  date of independence from the Soviet Union

Belgium
  21 July (1831) ascension to the Throne of King LEOPOLD I

Belize
  Independence Day, 21 September (1981)

Benin
  National Day, 1 August (1960)

Bermuda
  Bermuda Day, 24 May

Bhutan
  National Day (Ugyen WANGCHUCK became first hereditary king),
  17 December (1907)

Bolivia
  Independence Day, 6 August (1825)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  National Day, 25 November (1943)

Botswana
  Independence Day (Botswana Day), 30 September (1966)

Brazil
  Independence Day, 7 September (1822)

British Virgin Islands
  Territory Day, 1 July (1956)

Brunei
  National Day, 23 February (1984); note - 1 January 1984 was
  the date of independence from the UK, 23 February 1984 was the date
  of independence from British protection

Bulgaria
  Liberation Day, 3 March (1878)

Burkina Faso
  Republic Day, 11 December (1958)

Burma
  Independence Day, 4 January (1948); Union Day, 12 February
  (1947)

Burundi
  Independence Day, 1 July (1962)

Cambodia
  Independence Day, 9 November (1953)

Cameroon
  Republic Day (National Day), 20 May (1972)

Canada
  Canada Day, 1 July (1867)

Cape Verde
  Independence Day, 5 July (1975)

Cayman Islands
  Constitution Day, first Monday in July

Central African Republic
  Republic Day, 1 December (1958)

Chad
  Independence Day, 11 August (1960)

Chile
  Independence Day, 18 September (1810)

China
  Anniversary of the Founding of the People's Republic of China,
  1 October (1949)

Christmas Island
  Australia Day, 26 January (1788)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  Australia Day, 26 January (1788)

Colombia
  Independence Day, 20 July (1810)

Comoros
  Independence Day, 6 July (1975)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  Independence Day, 30 June (1960)

Congo, Republic of the
  Independence Day, 15 August (1960)

Cook Islands
  Constitution Day, first Monday in August (1965)

Costa Rica
  Independence Day, 15 September (1821)

Cote d'Ivoire
  Independence Day, 7 August (1960)

Croatia
  Independence Day, 8 October (1991); note - 25 June 1991 was
  the day the Croatian Parliament voted for independence; following a
  three-month moratorium to allow the European Community to solve the
  Yugoslav crisis peacefully, Parliament adopted a decision on 8
  October 1991 to sever constitutional relations with Yugoslavia

Cuba
  Triumph of the Revolution, 1 January (1959)

Cyprus
  Independence Day, 1 October (1960); note - Turkish Cypriots
  celebrate 15 November (1983) as Independence Day

Czech Republic
  Czech Founding Day, 28 October (1918)

Denmark
  none designated; Constitution Day, 5 June (1849) is
  generally viewed as the National Day

Djibouti
  Independence Day, 27 June (1977)

Dominica
  Independence Day, 3 November (1978)

Dominican Republic
  Independence Day, 27 February (1844)

Ecuador
  Independence Day (independence of Quito), 10 August (1809)

Egypt
  Revolution Day, 23 July (1952)

El Salvador
  Independence Day, 15 September (1821)

Equatorial Guinea
  Independence Day, 12 October (1968)

Eritrea
  Independence Day, 24 May (1993)

Estonia
  Independence Day, 24 February (1918); note - 24 February
  1918 was the date Estonia declared its independence from Soviet
  Russia; 20 August 1991 was the date it declared its independence
  from the Soviet Union

Ethiopia
  National Day (defeat of MENGISTU regime), 28 May (1991)

European Union
  Europe Day 9 May (1950); note - a Union-wide holiday,
  the day that Robert SCHUMAN proposed the creation of the European
  Coal and Steel Community to achieve an organized Europe

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  Liberation Day, 14 June (1982)

Faroe Islands
  Olaifest (Olavasoka), 29 July

Fiji
  Independence Day, second Monday of October (1970)

Finland
  Independence Day, 6 December (1917)

France
  Fete de la Federation, 14 July (1790); note - although often
  incorrectly referred to as Bastille Day, the celebration actually
  commemorates the holiday held on the first anniversary of the
  storming of the Bastille (on 14 July 1789) and the establishment of
  a constitutional monarchy; other names for the holiday are Fete
  Nationale (National Holiday) and quatorze juillet (14th of July)

French Polynesia
  Bastille Day, 14 July (1789)

Gabon
  Independence Day, 17 August (1960)

Gambia, The
  Independence Day, 18 February (1965)

Georgia
  Independence Day, 26 May (1918); note - 26 May 1918 was the
  date of independence from Soviet Russia, 9 April 1991 was the date
  of independence from the Soviet Union

Germany
  Unity Day, 3 October (1990)

Ghana
  Independence Day, 6 March (1957)

Gibraltar
  National Day, 10 September (1967); note - day of the
  national referendum to decide whether to remain with the UK or go
  with Spain

Greece
  Independence Day, 25 March (1821)

Greenland
  June 21 (longest day)

Grenada
  Independence Day, 7 February (1974)

Guam
  Discovery Day, first Monday in March (1521)

Guatemala
  Independence Day, 15 September (1821)

Guernsey
  Liberation Day, 9 May (1945)

Guinea
  Independence Day, 2 October (1958)

Guinea-Bissau
  Independence Day, 24 September (1973)

Guyana
  Republic Day, 23 February (1970)

Haiti
  Independence Day, 1 January (1804)

Holy See (Vatican City)
  Coronation Day of Pope BENEDICT XVI, 24
  April (2005)

Honduras
  Independence Day, 15 September (1821)

Hong Kong
  National Day (Anniversary of the Founding of the People's
  Republic of China), 1 October (1949); note - 1 July 1997 is
  celebrated as Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Establishment
  Day

Hungary
  Saint Stephen's Day, 20 August

Iceland
  Independence Day, 17 June (1944)

India
  Republic Day, 26 January (1950)

Indonesia
  Independence Day, 17 August (1945)

Iran
  Republic Day, 1 April (1979)

Iraq
  Revolution Day, 17 July (1968); note - this holiday was
  celebrated under the SADDAM Husayn regime; the Government of Iraq
  has yet to declare a new national holiday

Ireland
  Saint Patrick's Day, 17 March

Isle of Man
  Tynwald Day, 5 July

Israel
  Independence Day, 14 May (1948); note - Israel declared
  independence on 14 May 1948, but the Jewish calendar is lunar and
  the holiday may occur in April or May

Italy
  Republic Day, 2 June (1946)

Jamaica
  Independence Day, 6 August (1962)

Japan
  Birthday of Emperor AKIHITO, 23 December (1933)

Jersey
  Liberation Day, 9 May (1945)

Jordan
  Independence Day, 25 May (1946)

Kazakhstan
  Independence Day, 16 December (1991)

Kenya
  Independence Day, 12 December (1963)

Kiribati
  Independence Day, 12 July (1979)

Korea, North
  Founding of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea
  (DPRK), 9 September (1948)

Korea, South
  Liberation Day, 15 August (1945)

Kosovo
  Independence Day, 17 February (2008)

Kuwait
  National Day, 25 February (1950)

Kyrgyzstan
  Independence Day, 31 August (1991)

Laos
  Republic Day, 2 December (1975)

Latvia
  Independence Day, 18 November (1918); note - 18 November 1918
  was the date Latvia declared itself independent from Soviet Russia;
  4 May 1990 is when it declared the renewal of independence; 21
  August 1991 was the date of de facto independence from the Soviet
  Union

Lebanon
  Independence Day, 22 November (1943)

Lesotho
  Independence Day, 4 October (1966)

Liberia
  Independence Day, 26 July (1847)

Libya
  Revolution Day, 1 September (1969)

Liechtenstein
  Assumption Day, 15 August

Lithuania
  Independence Day, 16 February (1918); note - 16 February
  1918 was the date Lithuania declared its independence from Soviet
  Russia and established its statehood; 11 March 1990 was the date it
  declared its independence from the Soviet Union

Luxembourg
  National Day (Birthday of Grand Duchess Charlotte) 23
  June; note - the actual date of birth was 23 January 1896, but the
  festivities were shifted by five months to allow observance during a
  more favorable time of year

Macau
  National Day (Anniversary of the Founding of the People's
  Republic of China), 1 October (1949); note - 20 December 1999 is
  celebrated as Macau Special Administrative Region Establishment Day

Macedonia
  Ilinden Uprising Day, 2 August (1903); note - also known
  as Saint Elijah's Day

Madagascar
  Independence Day, 26 June (1960)

Malawi
  Independence Day (Republic Day), 6 July (1964)

Malaysia
  Independence Day/Malaysia Day, 31 August (1957)

Maldives
  Independence Day, 26 July (1965)

Mali
  Independence Day, 22 September (1960)

Malta
  Independence Day, 21 September (1964)

Marshall Islands
  Constitution Day, 1 May (1979)

Mauritania
  Independence Day, 28 November (1960)

Mauritius
  Independence Day, 12 March (1968)

Mayotte
  Bastille Day, 14 July (1789)

Mexico
  Independence Day, 16 September (1810)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  Constitution Day, 10 May (1979)

Moldova
  Independence Day, 27 August (1991)

Monaco
  National Day (Saint Rainier's Day), 19 November (1857)

Mongolia
  Independence Day/Revolution Day, 11 July (1921)

Montenegro
  National Day, 13 July (1878)

Montserrat
  Birthday of Queen ELIZABETH II, second Saturday in June
  (1926)

Morocco
  Throne Day (accession of King MOHAMED VI to the throne), 30
  July (1999)

Mozambique
  Independence Day, 25 June (1975)

Namibia
  Independence Day, 21 March (1990)

Nauru
  Independence Day, 31 January (1968)

Nepal
  NA; note - in 2006, Parliament abolished the birthday of King
  GYANENDRA (7 July) and Constitution Day (9 November) as national
  holidays

Netherlands
  Queen's Day (Birthday of Queen-Mother JULIANA and
  accession to the throne of her oldest daughter BEATRIX), 30 April
  (1909 and 1980)

Netherlands Antilles
  Queen's Day (Birthday of Queen-Mother JULIANA
  and accession to the throne of her oldest daughter BEATRIX), 30
  April (1909 and 1980)

New Caledonia
  Bastille Day, 14 July (1789)

New Zealand
  Waitangi Day (Treaty of Waitangi established British
  sovereignty over New Zealand), 6 February (1840); ANZAC Day
  (commemorated as the anniversary of the landing of troops of the
  Australian and New Zealand Army Corps during World War I at
  Gallipoli, Turkey), 25 April (1915)

Nicaragua
  Independence Day, 15 September (1821)

Niger
  Republic Day, 18 December (1958)

Nigeria
  Independence Day (National Day), 1 October (1960)

Niue
  Waitangi Day (Treaty of Waitangi established British
  sovereignty over New Zealand), 6 February (1840)

Norfolk Island
  Bounty Day (commemorates the arrival of Pitcairn
  Islanders), 8 June (1856)

Northern Mariana Islands
  Commonwealth Day, 8 January (1978)

Norway
  Constitution Day, 17 May (1814)

Oman
  Birthday of Sultan QABOOS, 18 November (1940)

Pakistan
  Republic Day, 23 March (1956)

Palau
  Constitution Day, 9 July (1979)

Panama
  Independence Day, 3 November (1903)

Papua New Guinea
  Independence Day, 16 September (1975)

Paraguay
  Independence Day, 14 May 1811 (observed 15 May)

Peru
  Independence Day, 28 July (1821)

Philippines
  Independence Day, 12 June (1898); note - 12 June 1898
  was date of declaration of independence from Spain; 4 July 1946 was
  date of independence from US

Pitcairn Islands
  Birthday of Queen ELIZABETH II, second Saturday in
  June (1926)

Poland
  Constitution Day, 3 May (1791)

Portugal
  Portugal Day (Day of Portugal), 10 June (1580); note - also
  called Camoes Day, the day that revered national poet Luis de Camoes
  (1524-80) died

Puerto Rico
  US Independence Day, 4 July (1776); Puerto Rico
  Constitution Day, 25 July (1952)

Qatar
  Independence Day, 3 September (1971); also observed is
  National Day, 18 December

Romania
  Unification Day (of Romania and Transylvania), 1 December
  (1918)

Russia
  Russia Day, 12 June (1990)

Rwanda
  Independence Day, 1 July (1962)

Saint Barthelemy
  Bastille Day, 14 July (1789); note - local holiday
  is St. Barthelemy Day, 24 August

Saint Helena
  Birthday of Queen ELIZABETH II, second Saturday in June
  (1926)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  Independence Day, 19 September (1983)

Saint Lucia
  Independence Day, 22 February (1979)

Saint Martin
  Bastille Day, 14 July (1789); note - local holiday is
  Schoalcher Day (Slavery Abolition Day) 12 July (1848)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  Bastille Day, 14 July (1789)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  Independence Day, 27 October (1979)

Samoa
  Independence Day Celebration, 1 June (1962); note - 1 January
  1962 is the date of independence from the New Zealand-administered
  UN trusteeship; it is observed in June

San Marino
  Founding of the Republic, 3 September (AD 301)

Sao Tome and Principe
  Independence Day, 12 July (1975)

Saudi Arabia
  Unification of the Kingdom, 23 September (1932)

Senegal
  Independence Day, 4 April (1960)

Serbia
  National Day, 15 February

Seychelles
  Constitution Day (National Day), 18 June (1993)

Sierra Leone
  Independence Day, 27 April (1961)

Singapore
  National Day, 9 August (1965)

Slovakia
  Constitution Day, 1 September (1992)

Slovenia
  Independence Day/Statehood Day, 25 June (1991)

Solomon Islands
  Independence Day, 7 July (1978)

Somalia
  Foundation of the Somali Republic, 1 July (1960); note - 26
  June (1960) in Somaliland

South Africa
  Freedom Day, 27 April (1994)

Spain
  National Day, 12 October (1492); year when Columbus first set
  foot in the Americas

Sri Lanka
  Independence Day, 4 February (1948)

Sudan
  Independence Day, 1 January (1956)

Suriname
  Independence Day, 25 November (1975)

Swaziland
  Independence Day, 6 September (1968)

Sweden
  Swedish Flag Day, 6 June (1916); National Day, 6 June (1983)

Switzerland
  Founding of the Swiss Confederation, 1 August (1291)

Syria
  Independence Day, 17 April (1946)

Taiwan
  Republic Day (Anniversary of the Chinese Revolution), 10
  October (1911)

Tajikistan
  Independence Day (or National Day), 9 September (1991)

Tanzania
  Union Day (Tanganyika and Zanzibar), 26 April (1964)

Thailand
  Birthday of King PHUMIPHON (BHUMIBOL), 5 December (1927)

Timor-Leste
  Independence Day, 28 November (1975)

Togo
  Independence Day, 27 April (1960)

Tokelau
  Waitangi Day (Treaty of Waitangi established British
  sovereignty over New Zealand), 6 February (1840)

Tonga
  Emancipation Day, 4 June (1970)

Trinidad and Tobago
  Independence Day, 31 August (1962)

Tunisia
  Independence Day, 20 March (1956); also the anniversary of
  BEN ALI's assumption of the presidency, 7 November (1987)

Turkey
  Republic Day, 29 October (1923)

Turkmenistan
  Independence Day, 27 October (1991)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  Constitution Day, 30 August (1976)

Tuvalu
  Independence Day, 1 October (1978)

Uganda
  Independence Day, 9 October (1962)

Ukraine
  Independence Day, 24 August (1991); note - 22 January 1918,
  the day Ukraine first declared its independence (from Soviet Russia)
  and the day the short-lived Western and Central Ukrainian republics
  united (1919), is now celebrated as Unity Day

United Arab Emirates
  Independence Day, 2 December (1971)

United Kingdom
  the UK does not celebrate one particular national
  holiday

United States
  Independence Day, 4 July (1776)

Uruguay
  Independence Day, 25 August (1825)

Uzbekistan
  Independence Day, 1 September (1991)

Vanuatu
  Independence Day, 30 July (1980)

Venezuela
  Independence Day, 5 July (1811)

Vietnam
  Independence Day, 2 September (1945)

Virgin Islands
  Transfer Day (from Denmark to the US), 31 March (1917)

Wallis and Futuna
  Bastille Day, 14 July (1789)

Yemen
  Unification Day, 22 May (1990)

Zambia
  Independence Day, 24 October (1964)

Zimbabwe
  Independence Day, 18 April (1980)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2110  Nationality


Afghanistan
  noun: Afghan(s)
  adjective: Afghan

Albania
  noun: Albanian(s)
  adjective: Albanian

Algeria
  noun: Algerian(s)
  adjective: Algerian

American Samoa
  noun: American Samoan(s) (US nationals)
  adjective: American Samoan

Andorra
  noun: Andorran(s)
  adjective: Andorran

Angola
  noun: Angolan(s)
  adjective: Angolan

Anguilla
  noun: Anguillan(s)
  adjective: Anguillan

Antigua and Barbuda
  noun: Antiguan(s), Barbudan(s)
  adjective: Antiguan, Barbudan

Argentina
  noun: Argentine(s)
  adjective: Argentine

Armenia
  noun: Armenian(s)
  adjective: Armenian

Aruba
  noun: Aruban(s)
  adjective: Aruban; Dutch

Australia
  noun: Australian(s)
  adjective: Australian

Austria
  noun: Austrian(s)
  adjective: Austrian

Azerbaijan
  noun: Azerbaijani(s)
  adjective: Azerbaijani

Bahamas, The
  noun: Bahamian(s)
  adjective: Bahamian

Bahrain
  noun: Bahraini(s)
  adjective: Bahraini

Bangladesh
  noun: Bangladeshi(s)
  adjective: Bangladeshi

Barbados
  noun: Barbadian(s) or Bajan (colloquial)
  adjective: Barbadian or Bajan (colloquial)

Belarus
  noun: Belarusian(s)
  adjective: Belarusian

Belgium
  noun: Belgian(s)
  adjective: Belgian

Belize
  noun: Belizean(s)
  adjective: Belizean

Benin
  noun: Beninese (singular and plural)
  adjective: Beninese

Bermuda
  noun: Bermudian(s)
  adjective: Bermudian

Bhutan
  noun: Bhutanese (singular and plural)
  adjective: Bhutanese

Bolivia
  noun: Bolivian(s)
  adjective: Bolivian

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  noun: Bosnian(s), Herzegovinian(s)
  adjective: Bosnian, Herzegovinian

Botswana
  noun: Motswana (singular), Batswana (plural)
  adjective: Motswana (singular), Batswana (plural)

Brazil
  noun: Brazilian(s)
  adjective: Brazilian

British Virgin Islands
  noun: British Virgin Islander(s)
  adjective: British Virgin Islander

Brunei
  noun: Bruneian(s)
  adjective: Bruneian

Bulgaria
  noun: Bulgarian(s)
  adjective: Bulgarian

Burkina Faso
  noun: Burkinabe (singular and plural)
  adjective: Burkinabe

Burma
  noun: Burmese (singular and plural)
  adjective: Burmese

Burundi
  noun: Burundian(s)
  adjective: Burundian

Cambodia
  noun: Cambodian(s)
  adjective: Cambodian

Cameroon
  noun: Cameroonian(s)
  adjective: Cameroonian

Canada
  noun: Canadian(s)
  adjective: Canadian

Cape Verde
  noun: Cape Verdean(s)
  adjective: Cape Verdean

Cayman Islands
  noun: Caymanian(s)
  adjective: Caymanian

Central African Republic
  noun: Central African(s)
  adjective: Central African

Chad
  noun: Chadian(s)
  adjective: Chadian

Chile
  noun: Chilean(s)
  adjective: Chilean

China
  noun: Chinese (singular and plural)
  adjective: Chinese

Christmas Island
  noun: Christmas Islander(s)
  adjective: Christmas Island

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  noun: Cocos Islander(s)
  adjective: Cocos Islander

Colombia
  noun: Colombian(s)
  adjective: Colombian

Comoros
  noun: Comoran(s)
  adjective: Comoran

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  noun: Congolese (singular and
  plural)
  adjective: Congolese or Congo

Congo, Republic of the
  noun: Congolese (singular and plural)
  adjective: Congolese or Congo

Cook Islands
  noun: Cook Islander(s)
  adjective: Cook Islander

Costa Rica
  noun: Costa Rican(s)
  adjective: Costa Rican

Cote d'Ivoire
  noun: Ivoirian(s)
  adjective: Ivoirian

Croatia
  noun: Croat(s), Croatian(s)
  adjective: Croatian

Cuba
  noun: Cuban(s)
  adjective: Cuban

Cyprus
  noun: Cypriot(s)
  adjective: Cypriot

Czech Republic
  noun: Czech(s)
  adjective: Czech

Denmark
  noun: Dane(s)
  adjective: Danish

Djibouti
  noun: Djiboutian(s)
  adjective: Djiboutian

Dominica
  noun: Dominican(s)
  adjective: Dominican

Dominican Republic
  noun: Dominican(s)
  adjective: Dominican

Ecuador
  noun: Ecuadorian(s)
  adjective: Ecuadorian

Egypt
  noun: Egyptian(s)
  adjective: Egyptian

El Salvador
  noun: Salvadoran(s)
  adjective: Salvadoran

Equatorial Guinea
  noun: Equatorial Guinean(s) or Equatoguinean(s)
  adjective: Equatorial Guinean or Equatoguinean

Eritrea
  noun: Eritrean(s)
  adjective: Eritrean

Estonia
  noun: Estonian(s)
  adjective: Estonian

Ethiopia
  noun: Ethiopian(s)
  adjective: Ethiopian

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  noun: Falkland Islander(s)
  adjective: Falkland Island

Faroe Islands
  noun: Faroese (singular and plural)
  adjective: Faroese

Fiji
  noun: Fijian(s)
  adjective: Fijian

Finland
  noun: Finn(s)
  adjective: Finnish

France
  noun: Frenchman(men), Frenchwoman(women)
  adjective: French

French Polynesia
  noun: French Polynesian(s)
  adjective: French Polynesian

Gabon
  noun: Gabonese (singular and plural)
  adjective: Gabonese

Gambia, The
  noun: Gambian(s)
  adjective: Gambian

Gaza Strip
  noun: NA
  adjective: NA

Georgia
  noun: Georgian(s)
  adjective: Georgian

Germany
  noun: German(s)
  adjective: German

Ghana
  noun: Ghanaian(s)
  adjective: Ghanaian

Gibraltar
  noun: Gibraltarian(s)
  adjective: Gibraltar

Greece
  noun: Greek(s)
  adjective: Greek

Greenland
  noun: Greenlander(s)
  adjective: Greenlandic

Grenada
  noun: Grenadian(s)
  adjective: Grenadian

Guam
  noun: Guamanian(s) (US citizens)
  adjective: Guamanian

Guatemala
  noun: Guatemalan(s)
  adjective: Guatemalan

Guernsey
  noun: Channel Islander(s)
  adjective: Channel Islander

Guinea
  noun: Guinean(s)
  adjective: Guinean

Guinea-Bissau
  noun: Guinean(s)
  adjective: Guinean

Guyana
  noun: Guyanese (singular and plural)
  adjective: Guyanese

Haiti
  noun: Haitian(s)
  adjective: Haitian

Holy See (Vatican City)
  noun: none
  adjective: none

Honduras
  noun: Honduran(s)
  adjective: Honduran

Hong Kong
  noun: Chinese/Hong Konger
  adjective: Chinese/Hong Kong

Hungary
  noun: Hungarian(s)
  adjective: Hungarian

Iceland
  noun: Icelander(s)
  adjective: Icelandic

India
  noun: Indian(s)
  adjective: Indian

Indonesia
  noun: Indonesian(s)
  adjective: Indonesian

Iran
  noun: Iranian(s)
  adjective: Iranian

Iraq
  noun: Iraqi(s)
  adjective: Iraqi

Ireland
  noun: Irishman(men), Irishwoman(women), Irish (collective
  plural)
  adjective: Irish

Isle of Man
  noun: Manxman (men), Manxwoman (women)
  adjective: Manx

Israel
  noun: Israeli(s)
  adjective: Israeli

Italy
  noun: Italian(s)
  adjective: Italian

Jamaica
  noun: Jamaican(s)
  adjective: Jamaican

Japan
  noun: Japanese (singular and plural)
  adjective: Japanese

Jersey
  noun: Channel Islander(s)
  adjective: Channel Islander

Jordan
  noun: Jordanian(s)
  adjective: Jordanian

Kazakhstan
  noun: Kazakhstani(s)
  adjective: Kazakhstani

Kenya
  noun: Kenyan(s)
  adjective: Kenyan

Kiribati
  noun: I-Kiribati (singular and plural)
  adjective: I-Kiribati

Korea, North
  noun: Korean(s)
  adjective: Korean

Korea, South
  noun: Korean(s)
  adjective: Korean

Kosovo
  noun: Kosovar (Albanian), Kosovac (Serbian)
  adjective: Kosovar (Albanian), Kosovski (Serbian)
  note: Kosovan, a neutral term, is sometimes also used as a noun or
  adjective

Kuwait
  noun: Kuwaiti(s)
  adjective: Kuwaiti

Kyrgyzstan
  noun: Kyrgyzstani(s)
  adjective: Kyrgyzstani

Laos
  noun: Lao(s) or Laotian(s)
  adjective: Lao or Laotian

Latvia
  noun: Latvian(s)
  adjective: Latvian

Lebanon
  noun: Lebanese (singular and plural)
  adjective: Lebanese

Lesotho
  noun: Mosotho (singular), Basotho (plural)
  adjective: Basotho

Liberia
  noun: Liberian(s)
  adjective: Liberian

Libya
  noun: Libyan(s)
  adjective: Libyan

Liechtenstein
  noun: Liechtensteiner(s)
  adjective: Liechtenstein

Lithuania
  noun: Lithuanian(s)
  adjective: Lithuanian

Luxembourg
  noun: Luxembourger(s)
  adjective: Luxembourg

Macau
  noun: Chinese
  adjective: Chinese

Macedonia
  noun: Macedonian(s)
  adjective: Macedonian

Madagascar
  noun: Malagasy (singular and plural)
  adjective: Malagasy

Malawi
  noun: Malawian(s)
  adjective: Malawian

Malaysia
  noun: Malaysian(s)
  adjective: Malaysian

Maldives
  noun: Maldivian(s)
  adjective: Maldivian

Mali
  noun: Malian(s)
  adjective: Malian

Malta
  noun: Maltese (singular and plural)
  adjective: Maltese

Marshall Islands
  noun: Marshallese (singular and plural)
  adjective: Marshallese

Mauritania
  noun: Mauritanian(s)
  adjective: Mauritanian

Mauritius
  noun: Mauritian(s)
  adjective: Mauritian

Mayotte
  noun: Mahorais (singular and plural)
  adjective: Mahoran

Mexico
  noun: Mexican(s)
  adjective: Mexican

Micronesia, Federated States of
  noun: Micronesian(s)
  adjective: Micronesian; Chuukese, Kosraen(s), Pohnpeian(s), Yapese

Moldova
  noun: Moldovan(s)
  adjective: Moldovan

Monaco
  noun: Monegasque(s) or Monacan(s)
  adjective: Monegasque or Monacan

Mongolia
  noun: Mongolian(s)
  adjective: Mongolian

Montenegro
  noun: Montenegrin(s)
  adjective: Montenegrin

Montserrat
  noun: Montserratian(s)
  adjective: Montserratian

Morocco
  noun: Moroccan(s)
  adjective: Moroccan

Mozambique
  noun: Mozambican(s)
  adjective: Mozambican

Namibia
  noun: Namibian(s)
  adjective: Namibian

Nauru
  noun: Nauruan(s)
  adjective: Nauruan

Nepal
  noun: Nepalese (singular and plural)
  adjective: Nepalese

Netherlands
  noun: Dutchman(men), Dutchwoman(women)
  adjective: Dutch

Netherlands Antilles
  noun: Dutch Antillean(s)
  adjective: Dutch Antillean

New Caledonia
  noun: New Caledonian(s)
  adjective: New Caledonian

New Zealand
  noun: New Zealander(s)
  adjective: New Zealand

Nicaragua
  noun: Nicaraguan(s)
  adjective: Nicaraguan

Niger
  noun: Nigerien(s)
  adjective: Nigerien

Nigeria
  noun: Nigerian(s)
  adjective: Nigerian

Niue
  noun: Niuean(s)
  adjective: Niuean

Norfolk Island
  noun: Norfolk Islander(s)
  adjective: Norfolk Islander(s)

Northern Mariana Islands
  noun: NA (US citizens)
  adjective: NA

Norway
  noun: Norwegian(s)
  adjective: Norwegian

Oman
  noun: Omani(s)
  adjective: Omani

Pakistan
  noun: Pakistani(s)
  adjective: Pakistani

Palau
  noun: Palauan(s)
  adjective: Palauan

Panama
  noun: Panamanian(s)
  adjective: Panamanian

Papua New Guinea
  noun: Papua New Guinean(s)
  adjective: Papua New Guinean

Paraguay
  noun: Paraguayan(s)
  adjective: Paraguayan

Peru
  noun: Peruvian(s)
  adjective: Peruvian

Philippines
  noun: Filipino(s)
  adjective: Philippine

Pitcairn Islands
  noun: Pitcairn Islander(s)
  adjective: Pitcairn Islander

Poland
  noun: Pole(s)
  adjective: Polish

Portugal
  noun: Portuguese (singular and plural)
  adjective: Portuguese

Puerto Rico
  noun: Puerto Rican(s) (US citizens)
  adjective: Puerto Rican

Qatar
  noun: Qatari(s)
  adjective: Qatari

Romania
  noun: Romanian(s)
  adjective: Romanian

Russia
  noun: Russian(s)
  adjective: Russian

Rwanda
  noun: Rwandan(s)
  adjective: Rwandan

Saint Helena
  noun: Saint Helenian(s)
  adjective: Saint Helenian
  note: referred to locally as "Saints"

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  noun: Kittitian(s), Nevisian(s)
  adjective: Kittitian, Nevisian

Saint Lucia
  noun: Saint Lucian(s)
  adjective: Saint Lucian

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  noun: Frenchman(men), Frenchwoman(women)
  adjective: French

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  noun: Saint Vincentian(s) or
  Vincentian(s)
  adjective: Saint Vincentian or Vincentian

Samoa
  noun: Samoan(s)
  adjective: Samoan

San Marino
  noun: Sammarinese (singular and plural)
  adjective: Sammarinese

Sao Tome and Principe
  noun: Sao Tomean(s)
  adjective: Sao Tomean

Saudi Arabia
  noun: Saudi(s)
  adjective: Saudi or Saudi Arabian

Senegal
  noun: Senegalese (singular and plural)
  adjective: Senegalese

Serbia
  noun: Serb(s)
  adjective: Serbian

Seychelles
  noun: Seychellois (singular and plural)
  adjective: Seychellois

Sierra Leone
  noun: Sierra Leonean(s)
  adjective: Sierra Leonean

Singapore
  noun: Singaporean(s)
  adjective: Singapore

Slovakia
  noun: Slovak(s)
  adjective: Slovak

Slovenia
  noun: Slovene(s)
  adjective: Slovenian

Solomon Islands
  noun: Solomon Islander(s)
  adjective: Solomon Islander

Somalia
  noun: Somali(s)
  adjective: Somali

South Africa
  noun: South African(s)
  adjective: South African

Spain
  noun: Spaniard(s)
  adjective: Spanish

Sri Lanka
  noun: Sri Lankan(s)
  adjective: Sri Lankan

Sudan
  noun: Sudanese (singular and plural)
  adjective: Sudanese

Suriname
  noun: Surinamer(s)
  adjective: Surinamese

Swaziland
  noun: Swazi(s)
  adjective: Swazi

Sweden
  noun: Swede(s)
  adjective: Swedish

Switzerland
  noun: Swiss (singular and plural)
  adjective: Swiss

Syria
  noun: Syrian(s)
  adjective: Syrian

Taiwan
  noun: Taiwan (singular and plural)
  note: example - he or she is from Taiwan; they are from Taiwan
  adjective: Taiwan

Tajikistan
  noun: Tajikistani(s)
  adjective: Tajikistani

Tanzania
  noun: Tanzanian(s)
  adjective: Tanzanian

Thailand
  noun: Thai (singular and plural)
  adjective: Thai

Timor-Leste
  noun: Timorese
  adjective: Timorese

Togo
  noun: Togolese (singular and plural)
  adjective: Togolese

Tokelau
  noun: Tokelauan(s)
  adjective: Tokelauan

Tonga
  noun: Tongan(s)
  adjective: Tongan

Trinidad and Tobago
  noun: Trinidadian(s), Tobagonian(s)
  adjective: Trinidadian, Tobagonian

Tunisia
  noun: Tunisian(s)
  adjective: Tunisian

Turkey
  noun: Turk(s)
  adjective: Turkish

Turkmenistan
  noun: Turkmen(s)
  adjective: Turkmenistani

Turks and Caicos Islands
  noun: none
  adjective: none

Tuvalu
  noun: Tuvaluan(s)
  adjective: Tuvaluan

Uganda
  noun: Ugandan(s)
  adjective: Ugandan

Ukraine
  noun: Ukrainian(s)
  adjective: Ukrainian

United Arab Emirates
  noun: Emirati(s)
  adjective: Emirati

United Kingdom
  noun: Briton(s), British (collective plural)
  adjective: British

United States
  noun: American(s)
  adjective: American

Uruguay
  noun: Uruguayan(s)
  adjective: Uruguayan

Uzbekistan
  noun: Uzbekistani
  adjective: Uzbekistani

Vanuatu
  noun: Ni-Vanuatu (singular and plural)
  adjective: Ni-Vanuatu

Venezuela
  noun: Venezuelan(s)
  adjective: Venezuelan

Vietnam
  noun: Vietnamese (singular and plural)
  adjective: Vietnamese

Virgin Islands
  noun: Virgin Islander(s) (US citizens)
  adjective: Virgin Islander

Wallis and Futuna
  noun: Wallisian(s), Futunan(s), or Wallis and
  Futuna Islanders
  adjective: Wallisian, Futunan, or Wallis and Futuna Islander

West Bank
  noun: NA
  adjective: NA

Western Sahara
  noun: Sahrawi(s), Sahraoui(s)
  adjective: Sahrawi, Sahrawian, Sahraouian

Yemen
  noun: Yemeni(s)
  adjective: Yemeni

Zambia
  noun: Zambian(s)
  adjective: Zambian

Zimbabwe
  noun: Zimbabwean(s)
  adjective: Zimbabwean

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2111  Natural resources


Afghanistan
  natural gas, petroleum, coal, copper, chromite, talc,
  barites, sulfur, lead, zinc, iron ore, salt, precious and
  semiprecious stones

Albania
  petroleum, natural gas, coal, bauxite, chromite, copper,
  iron ore, nickel, salt, timber, hydropower

Algeria
  petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, phosphates, uranium, lead,
  zinc

American Samoa
  pumice, pumicite

Andorra
  hydropower, mineral water, timber, iron ore, lead

Angola
  petroleum, diamonds, iron ore, phosphates, copper, feldspar,
  gold, bauxite, uranium

Anguilla
  salt, fish, lobster

Antarctica
  iron ore, chromium, copper, gold, nickel, platinum and
  other minerals, and coal and hydrocarbons have been found in small
  uncommercial quantities; none presently exploited; krill, finfish,
  and crab have been taken by commercial fisheries

Antigua and Barbuda
  NEGL; pleasant climate fosters tourism

Arctic Ocean
  sand and gravel aggregates, placer deposits,
  polymetallic nodules, oil and gas fields, fish, marine mammals
  (seals and whales)

Argentina
  fertile plains of the pampas, lead, zinc, tin, copper,
  iron ore, manganese, petroleum, uranium

Armenia
  small deposits of gold, copper, molybdenum, zinc, bauxite

Aruba
  NEGL; white sandy beaches

Ashmore and Cartier Islands
  fish

Atlantic Ocean
  oil and gas fields, fish, marine mammals (seals and
  whales), sand and gravel aggregates, placer deposits, polymetallic
  nodules, precious stones

Australia
  bauxite, coal, iron ore, copper, tin, gold, silver,
  uranium, nickel, tungsten, mineral sands, lead, zinc, diamonds,
  natural gas, petroleum
  note: Australia is the world's largest net exporter of coal
  accounting for 29% of global coal exports

Austria
  oil, coal, lignite, timber, iron ore, copper, zinc,
  antimony, magnesite, tungsten, graphite, salt, hydropower

Azerbaijan
  petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, nonferrous metals,
  bauxite

Bahamas, The
  salt, aragonite, timber, arable land

Bahrain
  oil, associated and nonassociated natural gas, fish, pearls

Bangladesh
  natural gas, arable land, timber, coal

Barbados
  petroleum, fish, natural gas

Belarus
  forests, peat deposits, small quantities of oil and natural
  gas, granite, dolomitic limestone, marl, chalk, sand, gravel, clay

Belgium
  construction materials, silica sand, carbonates

Belize
  arable land potential, timber, fish, hydropower

Benin
  small offshore oil deposits, limestone, marble, timber

Bermuda
  limestone, pleasant climate fostering tourism

Bhutan
  timber, hydropower, gypsum, calcium carbonate

Bolivia
  tin, natural gas, petroleum, zinc, tungsten, antimony,
  silver, iron, lead, gold, timber, hydropower

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  coal, iron ore, bauxite, copper, lead, zinc,
  chromite, cobalt, manganese, nickel, clay, gypsum, salt, sand,
  forests, hydropower

Botswana
  diamonds, copper, nickel, salt, soda ash, potash, coal,
  iron ore, silver

Bouvet Island
  none

Brazil
  bauxite, gold, iron ore, manganese, nickel, phosphates,
  platinum, tin, uranium, petroleum, hydropower, timber

British Indian Ocean Territory
  coconuts, fish, sugarcane

British Virgin Islands
  NEGL

Brunei
  petroleum, natural gas, timber

Bulgaria
  bauxite, copper, lead, zinc, coal, timber, arable land

Burkina Faso
  manganese, limestone, marble; small deposits of gold,
  phosphates, pumice, salt

Burma
  petroleum, timber, tin, antimony, zinc, copper, tungsten,
  lead, coal, marble, limestone, precious stones, natural gas,
  hydropower

Burundi
  nickel, uranium, rare earth oxides, peat, cobalt, copper,
  platinum, vanadium, arable land, hydropower, niobium, tantalum,
  gold, tin, tungsten, kaolin, limestone

Cambodia
  oil and gas, timber, gemstones, iron ore, manganese,
  phosphates, hydropower potential

Cameroon
  petroleum, bauxite, iron ore, timber, hydropower

Canada
  iron ore, nickel, zinc, copper, gold, lead, molybdenum,
  potash, diamonds, silver, fish, timber, wildlife, coal, petroleum,
  natural gas, hydropower

Cape Verde
  salt, basalt rock, limestone, kaolin, fish, clay, gypsum

Cayman Islands
  fish, climate and beaches that foster tourism

Central African Republic
  diamonds, uranium, timber, gold, oil,
  hydropower

Chad
  petroleum, uranium, natron, kaolin, fish (Lake Chad), gold,
  limestone, sand and gravel, salt

Chile
  copper, timber, iron ore, nitrates, precious metals,
  molybdenum, hydropower

China
  coal, iron ore, petroleum, natural gas, mercury, tin,
  tungsten, antimony, manganese, molybdenum, vanadium, magnetite,
  aluminum, lead, zinc, uranium, hydropower potential (world's largest)

Christmas Island
  phosphate, beaches

Clipperton Island
  fish

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  fish

Colombia
  petroleum, natural gas, coal, iron ore, nickel, gold,
  copper, emeralds, hydropower

Comoros
  NEGL

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  cobalt, copper, niobium, tantalum,
  petroleum, industrial and gem diamonds, gold, silver, zinc,
  manganese, tin, uranium, coal, hydropower, timber

Congo, Republic of the
  petroleum, timber, potash, lead, zinc,
  uranium, copper, phosphates, gold, magnesium, natural gas, hydropower

Cook Islands
  NEGL

Coral Sea Islands
  NEGL

Costa Rica
  hydropower

Cote d'Ivoire
  petroleum, natural gas, diamonds, manganese, iron ore,
  cobalt, bauxite, copper, gold, nickel, tantalum, silica sand, clay,
  cocoa beans, coffee, palm oil, hydropower

Croatia
  oil, some coal, bauxite, low-grade iron ore, calcium,
  gypsum, natural asphalt, silica, mica, clays, salt, hydropower

Cuba
  cobalt, nickel, iron ore, chromium, copper, salt, timber,
  silica, petroleum, arable land

Cyprus
  copper, pyrites, asbestos, gypsum, timber, salt, marble, clay
  earth pigment

Czech Republic
  hard coal, soft coal, kaolin, clay, graphite, timber

Denmark
  petroleum, natural gas, fish, salt, limestone, chalk, stone,
  gravel and sand

Djibouti
  geothermal areas, gold, clay, granite, limestone, marble,
  salt, diatomite, gypsum, pumice, petroleum

Dominica
  timber, hydropower, arable land

Dominican Republic
  nickel, bauxite, gold, silver

Ecuador
  petroleum, fish, timber, hydropower

Egypt
  petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, phosphates, manganese,
  limestone, gypsum, talc, asbestos, lead, zinc

El Salvador
  hydropower, geothermal power, petroleum, arable land

Equatorial Guinea
  petroleum, natural gas, timber, gold, bauxite,
  diamonds, tantalum, sand and gravel, clay

Eritrea
  gold, potash, zinc, copper, salt, possibly oil and natural
  gas, fish

Estonia
  oil shale, peat, phosphorite, clay, limestone, sand,
  dolomite, arable land, sea mud

Ethiopia
  small reserves of gold, platinum, copper, potash, natural
  gas, hydropower

European Union
  iron ore, natural gas, petroleum, coal, copper, lead,
  zinc, bauxite, uranium, potash, salt, hydropower, arable land,
  timber, fish

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  fish, squid, wildlife, calcified
  seaweed, sphagnum moss

Faroe Islands
  fish, whales, hydropower, possible oil and gas

Fiji
  timber, fish, gold, copper, offshore oil potential, hydropower

Finland
  timber, iron ore, copper, lead, zinc, chromite, nickel,
  gold, silver, limestone

France
  metropolitan France: coal, iron ore, bauxite, zinc, uranium,
  antimony, arsenic, potash, feldspar, fluorspar, gypsum, timber, fish
  French Guiana: gold deposits, petroleum, kaolin, niobium, tantalum,
  clay

French Polynesia
  timber, fish, cobalt, hydropower

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  fish, crayfish
  note: Glorioso Islands and Tromelin Island (Iles Eparses) have
  guano, phosphates, and coconuts

Gabon
  petroleum, natural gas, diamond, niobium, manganese, uranium,
  gold, timber, iron ore, hydropower

Gambia, The
  fish, titanium (rutile and ilmenite), tin, zircon,
  silica sand, clay, petroleum

Gaza Strip
  arable land, natural gas

Georgia
  forests, hydropower, manganese deposits, iron ore, copper,
  minor coal and oil deposits; coastal climate and soils allow for
  important tea and citrus growth

Germany
  coal, lignite, natural gas, iron ore, copper, nickel,
  uranium, potash, salt, construction materials, timber, arable land

Ghana
  gold, timber, industrial diamonds, bauxite, manganese, fish,
  rubber, hydropower, petroleum, silver, salt, limestone

Gibraltar
  none

Greece
  lignite, petroleum, iron ore, bauxite, lead, zinc, nickel,
  magnesite, marble, salt, hydropower potential

Greenland
  coal, iron ore, lead, zinc, molybdenum, diamonds, gold,
  platinum, niobium, tantalite, uranium, fish, seals, whales,
  hydropower, possible oil and gas

Grenada
  timber, tropical fruit, deepwater harbors

Guam
  aquatic wildlife (supporting tourism), fishing (largely
  undeveloped)

Guatemala
  petroleum, nickel, rare woods, fish, chicle, hydropower

Guernsey
  cropland

Guinea
  bauxite, iron ore, diamonds, gold, uranium, hydropower, fish,
  salt

Guinea-Bissau
  fish, timber, phosphates, bauxite, clay, granite,
  limestone, unexploited deposits of petroleum

Guyana
  bauxite, gold, diamonds, hardwood timber, shrimp, fish

Haiti
  bauxite, copper, calcium carbonate, gold, marble, hydropower

Heard Island and McDonald Islands
  fish

Holy See (Vatican City)
  none

Honduras
  timber, gold, silver, copper, lead, zinc, iron ore,
  antimony, coal, fish, hydropower

Hong Kong
  outstanding deepwater harbor, feldspar

Hungary
  bauxite, coal, natural gas, fertile soils, arable land

Iceland
  fish, hydropower, geothermal power, diatomite

India
  coal (fourth-largest reserves in the world), iron ore,
  manganese, mica, bauxite, titanium ore, chromite, natural gas,
  diamonds, petroleum, limestone, arable land

Indian Ocean
  oil and gas fields, fish, shrimp, sand and gravel
  aggregates, placer deposits, polymetallic nodules

Indonesia
  petroleum, tin, natural gas, nickel, timber, bauxite,
  copper, fertile soils, coal, gold, silver

Iran
  petroleum, natural gas, coal, chromium, copper, iron ore, lead,
  manganese, zinc, sulfur

Iraq
  petroleum, natural gas, phosphates, sulfur

Ireland
  natural gas, peat, copper, lead, zinc, silver, barite,
  gypsum, limestone, dolomite

Isle of Man
  none

Israel
  timber, potash, copper ore, natural gas, phosphate rock,
  magnesium bromide, clays, sand

Italy
  coal, mercury, zinc, potash, marble, barite, asbestos, pumice,
  fluorspar, feldspar, pyrite (sulfur), natural gas and crude oil
  reserves, fish, arable land

Jamaica
  bauxite, gypsum, limestone

Jan Mayen
  none

Japan
  negligible mineral resources, fish
  note: with virtually no energy natural resources, Japan is the
  world's largest importer of coal and liquefied natural gas as well
  as the second largest importer of oil

Jersey
  arable land

Jordan
  phosphates, potash, shale oil

Kazakhstan
  major deposits of petroleum, natural gas, coal, iron ore,
  manganese, chrome ore, nickel, cobalt, copper, molybdenum, lead,
  zinc, bauxite, gold, uranium

Kenya
  limestone, soda ash, salt, gemstones, fluorspar, zinc,
  diatomite, gypsum, wildlife, hydropower

Kiribati
  phosphate (production discontinued in 1979)

Korea, North
  coal, lead, tungsten, zinc, graphite, magnesite, iron
  ore, copper, gold, pyrites, salt, fluorspar, hydropower

Korea, South
  coal, tungsten, graphite, molybdenum, lead, hydropower
  potential

Kosovo
  nickel, lead, zinc, magnesium, lignite, kaolin, chrome,
  bauxite

Kuwait
  petroleum, fish, shrimp, natural gas

Kyrgyzstan
  abundant hydropower; significant deposits of gold and
  rare earth metals; locally exploitable coal, oil, and natural gas;
  other deposits of nepheline, mercury, bismuth, lead, and zinc

Laos
  timber, hydropower, gypsum, tin, gold, gemstones

Latvia
  peat, limestone, dolomite, amber, hydropower, wood, arable
  land

Lebanon
  limestone, iron ore, salt, water-surplus state in a
  water-deficit region, arable land

Lesotho
  water, agricultural and grazing land, diamonds, sand, clay,
  building stone

Liberia
  iron ore, timber, diamonds, gold, hydropower

Libya
  petroleum, natural gas, gypsum

Liechtenstein
  hydroelectric potential, arable land

Lithuania
  peat, arable land, amber

Luxembourg
  iron ore (no longer exploited), arable land

Macau
  NEGL

Macedonia
  low-grade iron ore, copper, lead, zinc, chromite,
  manganese, nickel, tungsten, gold, silver, asbestos, gypsum, timber,
  arable land

Madagascar
  graphite, chromite, coal, bauxite, salt, quartz, tar
  sands, semiprecious stones, mica, fish, hydropower

Malawi
  limestone, arable land, hydropower, unexploited deposits of
  uranium, coal, and bauxite

Malaysia
  tin, petroleum, timber, copper, iron ore, natural gas,
  bauxite

Maldives
  fish

Mali
  gold, phosphates, kaolin, salt, limestone, uranium, gypsum,
  granite, hydropower
  note: bauxite, iron ore, manganese, tin, and copper deposits are
  known but not exploited

Malta
  limestone, salt, arable land

Marshall Islands
  coconut products, marine products, deep seabed
  minerals

Mauritania
  iron ore, gypsum, copper, phosphate, diamonds, gold, oil,
  fish

Mauritius
  arable land, fish

Mayotte
  NEGL

Mexico
  petroleum, silver, copper, gold, lead, zinc, natural gas,
  timber

Micronesia, Federated States of
  forests, marine products,
  deep-seabed minerals, phosphate

Moldova
  lignite, phosphorites, gypsum, arable land, limestone

Monaco
  none

Mongolia
  oil, coal, copper, molybdenum, tungsten, phosphates, tin,
  nickel, zinc, fluorspar, gold, silver, iron

Montenegro
  bauxite, hydroelectricity

Montserrat
  NEGL

Morocco
  phosphates, iron ore, manganese, lead, zinc, fish, salt

Mozambique
  coal, titanium, natural gas, hydropower, tantalum,
  graphite

Namibia
  diamonds, copper, uranium, gold, silver, lead, tin, lithium,
  cadmium, tungsten, zinc, salt, hydropower, fish
  note: suspected deposits of oil, coal, and iron ore

Nauru
  phosphates, fish

Navassa Island
  guano

Nepal
  quartz, water, timber, hydropower, scenic beauty, small
  deposits of lignite, copper, cobalt, iron ore

Netherlands
  natural gas, petroleum, peat, limestone, salt, sand and
  gravel, arable land

Netherlands Antilles
  phosphates (Curacao only), salt (Bonaire only)

New Caledonia
  nickel, chrome, iron, cobalt, manganese, silver, gold,
  lead, copper

New Zealand
  natural gas, iron ore, sand, coal, timber, hydropower,
  gold, limestone

Nicaragua
  gold, silver, copper, tungsten, lead, zinc, timber, fish

Niger
  uranium, coal, iron ore, tin, phosphates, gold, molybdenum,
  gypsum, salt, petroleum

Nigeria
  natural gas, petroleum, tin, iron ore, coal, limestone,
  niobium, lead, zinc, arable land

Niue
  fish, arable land

Norfolk Island
  fish

Northern Mariana Islands
  arable land, fish

Norway
  petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, copper, lead, zinc,
  titanium, pyrites, nickel, fish, timber, hydropower

Oman
  petroleum, copper, asbestos, some marble, limestone, chromium,
  gypsum, natural gas

Pacific Ocean
  oil and gas fields, polymetallic nodules, sand and
  gravel aggregates, placer deposits, fish

Pakistan
  land, extensive natural gas reserves, limited petroleum,
  poor quality coal, iron ore, copper, salt, limestone

Palau
  forests, minerals (especially gold), marine products,
  deep-seabed minerals

Panama
  copper, mahogany forests, shrimp, hydropower

Papua New Guinea
  gold, copper, silver, natural gas, timber, oil,
  fisheries

Paracel Islands
  none

Paraguay
  hydropower, timber, iron ore, manganese, limestone

Peru
  copper, silver, gold, petroleum, timber, fish, iron ore, coal,
  phosphate, potash, hydropower, natural gas

Philippines
  timber, petroleum, nickel, cobalt, silver, gold, salt,
  copper

Pitcairn Islands
  miro trees (used for handicrafts), fish
  note: manganese, iron, copper, gold, silver, and zinc have been
  discovered offshore

Poland
  coal, sulfur, copper, natural gas, silver, lead, salt, amber,
  arable land

Portugal
  fish, forests (cork), iron ore, copper, zinc, tin,
  tungsten, silver, gold, uranium, marble, clay, gypsum, salt, arable
  land, hydropower

Puerto Rico
  some copper and nickel; potential for onshore and
  offshore oil

Qatar
  petroleum, natural gas, fish

Romania
  petroleum (reserves declining), timber, natural gas, coal,
  iron ore, salt, arable land, hydropower

Russia
  wide natural resource base including major deposits of oil,
  natural gas, coal, and many strategic minerals, timber
  note: formidable obstacles of climate, terrain, and distance hinder
  exploitation of natural resources

Rwanda
  gold, cassiterite (tin ore), wolframite (tungsten ore),
  methane, hydropower, arable land

Saint Barthelemy
  has few natural resouces, its beaches being the
  most important

Saint Helena
  fish, lobster

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  arable land

Saint Lucia
  forests, sandy beaches, minerals (pumice), mineral
  springs, geothermal potential

Saint Martin
  salt

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  fish, deepwater ports

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  hydropower, cropland

Samoa
  hardwood forests, fish, hydropower

San Marino
  building stone

Sao Tome and Principe
  fish, hydropower

Saudi Arabia
  petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, gold, copper

Senegal
  fish, phosphates, iron ore

Serbia
  oil, gas, coal, iron ore, copper, zinc, antimony, chromite,
  gold, silver, magnesium, pyrite, limestone, marble, salt, arable land

Seychelles
  fish, copra, cinnamon trees

Sierra Leone
  diamonds, titanium ore, bauxite, iron ore, gold,
  chromite

Singapore
  fish, deepwater ports

Slovakia
  brown coal and lignite; small amounts of iron ore, copper
  and manganese ore; salt; arable land

Slovenia
  lignite coal, lead, zinc, building stone, hydropower,
  forests

Solomon Islands
  fish, forests, gold, bauxite, phosphates, lead,
  zinc, nickel

Somalia
  uranium and largely unexploited reserves of iron ore, tin,
  gypsum, bauxite, copper, salt, natural gas, likely oil reserves

South Africa
  gold, chromium, antimony, coal, iron ore, manganese,
  nickel, phosphates, tin, uranium, gem diamonds, platinum, copper,
  vanadium, salt, natural gas

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  fish

Southern Ocean
  probable large and possible giant oil and gas fields
  on the continental margin; manganese nodules, possible placer
  deposits, sand and gravel, fresh water as icebergs; squid, whales,
  and seals - none exploited; krill, fish

Spain
  coal, lignite, iron ore, copper, lead, zinc, uranium,
  tungsten, mercury, pyrites, magnesite, fluorspar, gypsum, sepiolite,
  kaolin, potash, hydropower, arable land

Spratly Islands
  fish, guano, undetermined oil and natural gas
  potential

Sri Lanka
  limestone, graphite, mineral sands, gems, phosphates,
  clay, hydropower

Sudan
  petroleum; small reserves of iron ore, copper, chromium ore,
  zinc, tungsten, mica, silver, gold, hydropower

Suriname
  timber, hydropower, fish, kaolin, shrimp, bauxite, gold,
  and small amounts of nickel, copper, platinum, iron ore

Svalbard
  coal, iron ore, copper, zinc, phosphate, wildlife, fish

Swaziland
  asbestos, coal, clay, cassiterite, hydropower, forests,
  small gold and diamond deposits, quarry stone, and talc

Sweden
  iron ore, copper, lead, zinc, gold, silver, tungsten,
  uranium, arsenic, feldspar, timber, hydropower

Switzerland
  hydropower potential, timber, salt

Syria
  petroleum, phosphates, chrome and manganese ores, asphalt,
  iron ore, rock salt, marble, gypsum, hydropower

Taiwan
  small deposits of coal, natural gas, limestone, marble, and
  asbestos

Tajikistan
  hydropower, some petroleum, uranium, mercury, brown coal,
  lead, zinc, antimony, tungsten, silver, gold

Tanzania
  hydropower, tin, phosphates, iron ore, coal, diamonds,
  gemstones, gold, natural gas, nickel

Thailand
  tin, rubber, natural gas, tungsten, tantalum, timber, lead,
  fish, gypsum, lignite, fluorite, arable land

Timor-Leste
  gold, petroleum, natural gas, manganese, marble

Togo
  phosphates, limestone, marble, arable land

Tokelau
  NEGL

Tonga
  fish, fertile soil

Trinidad and Tobago
  petroleum, natural gas, asphalt

Tunisia
  petroleum, phosphates, iron ore, lead, zinc, salt

Turkey
  coal, iron ore, copper, chromium, antimony, mercury, gold,
  barite, borate, celestite (strontium), emery, feldspar, limestone,
  magnesite, marble, perlite, pumice, pyrites (sulfur), clay, arable
  land, hydropower

Turkmenistan
  petroleum, natural gas, sulfur, salt

Turks and Caicos Islands
  spiny lobster, conch

Tuvalu
  fish

Uganda
  copper, cobalt, hydropower, limestone, salt, arable land

Ukraine
  iron ore, coal, manganese, natural gas, oil, salt, sulfur,
  graphite, titanium, magnesium, kaolin, nickel, mercury, timber,
  arable land

United Arab Emirates
  petroleum, natural gas

United Kingdom
  coal, petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, lead, zinc,
  gold, tin, limestone, salt, clay, chalk, gypsum, potash, silica
  sand, slate, arable land

United States
  coal, copper, lead, molybdenum, phosphates, uranium,
  bauxite, gold, iron, mercury, nickel, potash, silver, tungsten,
  zinc, petroleum, natural gas, timber
  note: the US has the world's largest coal reserves with 491 billion
  short tons accounting for 27% of the world's total

United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
  terrestrial and
  aquatic wildlife

Uruguay
  arable land, hydropower, minor minerals, fisheries

Uzbekistan
  natural gas, petroleum, coal, gold, uranium, silver,
  copper, lead and zinc, tungsten, molybdenum

Vanuatu
  manganese, hardwood forests, fish

Venezuela
  petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, gold, bauxite, other
  minerals, hydropower, diamonds

Vietnam
  phosphates, coal, manganese, bauxite, chromate, offshore oil
  and gas deposits, forests, hydropower

Virgin Islands
  sun, sand, sea, surf

Wake Island
  none

Wallis and Futuna
  NEGL

West Bank
  arable land

Western Sahara
  phosphates, iron ore

World
  the rapid depletion of nonrenewable mineral resources, the
  depletion of forest areas and wetlands, the extinction of animal and
  plant species, and the deterioration in air and water quality
  (especially in Eastern Europe, the former USSR, and China) pose
  serious long-term problems that governments and peoples are only
  beginning to address

Yemen
  petroleum, fish, rock salt, marble; small deposits of coal,
  gold, lead, nickel, and copper; fertile soil in west

Zambia
  copper, cobalt, zinc, lead, coal, emeralds, gold, silver,
  uranium, hydropower

Zimbabwe
  coal, chromium ore, asbestos, gold, nickel, copper, iron
  ore, vanadium, lithium, tin, platinum group metals

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2112  Net migration rate (migrant(s)/1,000 population)


Afghanistan
  21 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Albania
  -4.41 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Algeria
  -0.31 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

American Samoa
  -7.17 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Andorra
  13.99 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Angola
  1.72 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Anguilla
  14.6 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  2.41 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Argentina
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Armenia
  -4.95 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Aruba
  9.85 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Australia
  6.34 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Austria
  1.88 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Azerbaijan
  -1.97 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Bahamas, The
  -2.14 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Bahrain
  0.4 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Bangladesh
  -0.65 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Barbados
  -0.31 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Belarus
  0.38 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Belgium
  1.22 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Belize
  NA (2008 est.)

Benin
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Bermuda
  2.28 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Bhutan
  NA (2008 est.)

Bolivia
  -1.14 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  6.38 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Botswana
  5.41 migrant(s)/1,000 population
  note: there is an increasing flow of Zimbabweans into South Africa
  and Botswana in search of better economic opportunities (2008 est.)

Brazil
  -0.09 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  8.44 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Brunei
  2.74 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Bulgaria
  -3.41 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Burkina Faso
  NA (2008 est.)

Burma
  NA (2008 est.)

Burundi
  5.62 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Cambodia
  NA (2008 est.)

Cameroon
  NA (2008 est.)

Canada
  5.62 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Cape Verde
  -11.74 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Cayman Islands
  16.88 migrant(s)/1,000 population
  note: major destination for Cubans trying to migrate to the US (2008
  est.)

Central African Republic
  NA (2008 est.)

Chad
  -3.27 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Chile
  NA (2008 est.)

China
  -0.39 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Christmas Island
  NA (2008 est.)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  NA (2008 est.)

Colombia
  -0.28 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Comoros
  NA (2008 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  1.24 migrant(s)/1,000 population
  (2008 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  -2.52 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Costa Rica
  0.48 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  NA (2008 est.)

Croatia
  1.58 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Cuba
  -1.57 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Cyprus
  0.42 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Czech Republic
  0.97 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Denmark
  2.49 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Djibouti
  NA (2008 est.)

Dominica
  -5.46 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Dominican Republic
  -2.4 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Ecuador
  -7.98 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Egypt
  -0.21 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

El Salvador
  -3.4 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  NA (2008 est.)

Eritrea
  NA (2008 est.)

Estonia
  -3.24 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Ethiopia
  NA
  note: repatriation of Ethiopian refugees residing in Sudan is
  expected to continue for several years; some Sudanese, Somali, and
  Eritrean refugees, who fled to Ethiopia from the fighting or famine
  in their own countries, continue to return to their homes (2008 est.)

European Union
  1.23 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  NA (2008 est.)

Faroe Islands
  -0.82 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Fiji
  -2.62 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Finland
  0.73 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

France
  1.48 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

French Polynesia
  2.77 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Gabon
  -3.62 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Gambia, The
  0.61 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Gaza Strip
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Georgia
  -4.36 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Germany
  2.19 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Ghana
  -0.55 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Gibraltar
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Greece
  2.33 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Greenland
  -5.99 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Grenada
  -11.23 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Guam
  NA (2008 est.)

Guatemala
  -2.26 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Guernsey
  3.8 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Guinea
  -1.63 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Guyana
  -7.45 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Haiti
  -0.61 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Honduras
  -1.33 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Hong Kong
  4.55 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Hungary
  0.86 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Iceland
  1.13 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

India
  -0.05 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Indonesia
  -1.25 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Iran
  -3.28 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Iraq
  NA (2008 est.)

Ireland
  4.76 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Isle of Man
  5.25 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Israel
  2.52 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Italy
  2.06 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Jamaica
  -5.88 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Japan
  NA (2008 est.)

Jersey
  2.73 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Jordan
  5.97 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Kazakhstan
  -3.31 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Kenya
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Kiribati
  NA (2008 est.)

Korea, North
  NA (2008 est.)

Korea, South
  NA (2008 est.)

Kuwait
  16.39 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  -2.55 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Laos
  NA (2008 est.)

Latvia
  -2.29 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Lebanon
  NA (2008 est.)

Lesotho
  -0.78 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Liberia
  15.14 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Libya
  NA (2008 est.)

Liechtenstein
  4.7 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Lithuania
  -0.72 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Luxembourg
  8.54 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Macau
  26.21 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Macedonia
  -0.57 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Madagascar
  NA (2008 est.)

Malawi
  NA (2008 est.)

Malaysia
  NA
  note: does not reflect net flow of an unknown number of illegal
  immigrants from other countries in the region (2008 est.)

Maldives
  NA (2008 est.)

Mali
  -5.97 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Malta
  2.03 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Marshall Islands
  -5.52 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Mauritania
  NA (2008 est.)

Mauritius
  -0.09 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Mayotte
  2.22 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Mexico
  -3.84 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  -21.04 migrant(s)/1,000 population
  (2008 est.)

Moldova
  -1.13 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Monaco
  7.62 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Mongolia
  NA (2008 est.)

Montserrat
  NA (2008 est.)

Morocco
  -0.77 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Mozambique
  NA (2008 est.)

Namibia
  0.35 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Nauru
  NA (2008 est.)

Nepal
  NA (2008 est.)

Netherlands
  2.55 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  -0.39 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

New Caledonia
  NA
  note: there has been steady emigration from Wallis and Futuna to New
  Caledonia (2008 est.)

New Zealand
  2.62 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Nicaragua
  -1.13 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Niger
  -0.57 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Nigeria
  -0.1 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Niue
  NA (2008 est.)

Norfolk Island
  NA (2008 est.)

Northern Mariana Islands
  7.04 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Norway
  1.71 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Oman
  0.33 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Pakistan
  -0.51 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Palau
  0.9 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Panama
  -0.53 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  NA (2008 est.)

Paraguay
  -0.07 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Peru
  -0.97 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Philippines
  -1.36 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Pitcairn Islands
  NA (2008 est.)

Poland
  -0.46 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Portugal
  3.23 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Puerto Rico
  -1.03 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Qatar
  -2.28 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Romania
  -0.13 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Russia
  0.28 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Rwanda
  2.29 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Saint Helena
  NA (2008 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  -2.31 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Saint Lucia
  -4.33 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  -4.97 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008
  est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  -7.56 migrant(s)/1,000 population
  (2008 est.)

Samoa
  -9.14 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

San Marino
  10.44 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe
  -1.97 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  -6.82 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Senegal
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Seychelles
  -5.11 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Sierra Leone
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population
  note: refugees currently in surrounding countries are slowly
  returning (2008 est.)

Singapore
  6.88 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Slovakia
  0.3 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Slovenia
  0.64 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Solomon Islands
  NA (2008 est.)

Somalia
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

South Africa
  4.98 migrant(s)/1,000 population
  note: there is an increasing flow of Zimbabweans into South Africa
  and Botswana in search of better economic opportunities (2008 est.)

Spain
  0.99 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Sri Lanka
  -1.12 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Sudan
  0.67 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Suriname
  -0.52 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Svalbard
  NA (2008 est.)

Swaziland
  NA (2008 est.)

Sweden
  1.66 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Switzerland
  2.21 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Syria
  NA (2008 est.)

Taiwan
  0.04 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Tajikistan
  -1.31 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Tanzania
  -1.48 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Thailand
  NA (2008 est.)

Timor-Leste
  NA (2008 est.)

Togo
  NA (2008 est.)

Tokelau
  NA (2008 est.)

Tonga
  NA (2008 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  -11.2 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Tunisia
  -0.44 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Turkey
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Turkmenistan
  -3 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  9.48 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Tuvalu
  NA (2008 est.)

Uganda
  0.21 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Ukraine
  -0.12 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  24.41 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

United Kingdom
  2.17 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

United States
  2.92 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Uruguay
  -0.18 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Uzbekistan
  -3.04 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Vanuatu
  NA (2008 est.)

Venezuela
  -0.84 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Vietnam
  -0.39 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Virgin Islands
  -5.72 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Wallis and Futuna
  NA
  note: there has been steady emigration from Wallis and Futuna to New
  Caledonia (2008 est.)

West Bank
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Yemen
  NA (2008 est.)

Zambia
  -2.63 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est.)

Zimbabwe
  NA
  note: there is an increasing flow of Zimbabweans into South Africa
  and Botswana in search of better economic opportunities (2008 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2113  Geography - note


Afghanistan
  landlocked; the Hindu Kush mountains that run northeast
  to southwest divide the northern provinces from the rest of the
  country; the highest peaks are in the northern Vakhan (Wakhan
  Corridor)

Akrotiri
  British extraterritorial rights also extended to several
  small off-post sites scattered across Cyprus; of the Sovereign Base
  Area land, 60% is privately owned and farmed, 20% is owned by the
  Ministry of Defense, and 20% is SBA Crown land

Albania
  strategic location along Strait of Otranto (links Adriatic
  Sea to Ionian Sea and Mediterranean Sea)

Algeria
  second-largest country in Africa (after Sudan)

American Samoa
  Pago Pago has one of the best natural deepwater
  harbors in the South Pacific Ocean, sheltered by shape from rough
  seas and protected by peripheral mountains from high winds;
  strategic location in the South Pacific Ocean

Andorra
  landlocked; straddles a number of important crossroads in
  the Pyrenees

Angola
  the province of Cabinda is an exclave, separated from the
  rest of the country by the Democratic Republic of the Congo

Anguilla
  the most northerly of the Leeward Islands in the Lesser
  Antilles

Antarctica
  the coldest, windiest, highest (on average), and driest
  continent; during summer, more solar radiation reaches the surface
  at the South Pole than is received at the Equator in an equivalent
  period; mostly uninhabitable

Antigua and Barbuda
  Antigua has a deeply indented shoreline with
  many natural harbors and beaches; Barbuda has a large western harbor

Arctic Ocean
  major chokepoint is the southern Chukchi Sea (northern
  access to the Pacific Ocean via the Bering Strait); strategic
  location between North America and Russia; shortest marine link
  between the extremes of eastern and western Russia; floating
  research stations operated by the US and Russia; maximum snow cover
  in March or April about 20 to 50 centimeters over the frozen ocean;
  snow cover lasts about 10 months

Argentina
  second-largest country in South America (after Brazil);
  strategic location relative to sea lanes between the South Atlantic
  and the South Pacific Oceans (Strait of Magellan, Beagle Channel,
  Drake Passage); diverse geophysical landscapes range from tropical
  climates in the north to tundra in the far south; Cerro Aconcagua is
  the Western Hemisphere's tallest mountain, while Laguna del Carbon
  is the lowest point in the Western Hemisphere

Armenia
  landlocked in the Lesser Caucasus Mountains; Sevana Lich
  (Lake Sevan) is the largest lake in this mountain range

Aruba
  a flat, riverless island renowned for its white sand beaches;
  its tropical climate is moderated by constant trade winds from the
  Atlantic Ocean; the temperature is almost constant at about 27
  degrees Celsius (81 degrees Fahrenheit)

Ashmore and Cartier Islands
  Ashmore Reef National Nature Reserve
  established in August 1983; Cartier Island Marine Reserve
  established in 2000

Atlantic Ocean
  major chokepoints include the Dardanelles, Strait of
  Gibraltar, access to the Panama and Suez Canals; strategic straits
  include the Strait of Dover, Straits of Florida, Mona Passage, The
  Sound (Oresund), and Windward Passage; the Equator divides the
  Atlantic Ocean into the North Atlantic Ocean and South Atlantic Ocean

Australia
  world's smallest continent but sixth-largest country;
  population concentrated along the eastern and southeastern coasts;
  the invigorating sea breeze known as the "Fremantle Doctor" affects
  the city of Perth on the west coast, and is one of the most
  consistent winds in the world

Austria
  landlocked; strategic location at the crossroads of central
  Europe with many easily traversable Alpine passes and valleys; major
  river is the Danube; population is concentrated on eastern lowlands
  because of steep slopes, poor soils, and low temperatures elsewhere

Azerbaijan
  both the main area of the country and the Naxcivan
  exclave are landlocked

Bahamas, The
  strategic location adjacent to US and Cuba; extensive
  island chain of which 30 are inhabited

Bahrain
  close to primary Middle Eastern petroleum sources; strategic
  location in Persian Gulf, through which much of the Western world's
  petroleum must transit to reach open ocean

Bangladesh
  most of the country is situated on deltas of large rivers
  flowing from the Himalayas: the Ganges unites with the Jamuna (main
  channel of the Brahmaputra) and later joins the Meghna to eventually
  empty into the Bay of Bengal

Barbados
  easternmost Caribbean island

Belarus
  landlocked; glacial scouring accounts for the flatness of
  Belarusian terrain and for its 11,000 lakes

Belgium
  crossroads of Western Europe; most West European capitals
  within 1,000 km of Brussels, the seat of both the European Union and
  NATO

Belize
  only country in Central America without a coastline on the
  North Pacific Ocean

Benin
  sandbanks create difficult access to a coast with no natural
  harbors, river mouths, or islands

Bermuda
  consists of about 138 coral islands and islets with ample
  rainfall, but no rivers or freshwater lakes; some land was leased by
  US Government from 1941 to 1995

Bhutan
  landlocked; strategic location between China and India;
  controls several key Himalayan mountain passes

Bolivia
  landlocked; shares control of Lago Titicaca, world's highest
  navigable lake (elevation 3,805 m), with Peru

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  within Bosnia and Herzegovina's recognized
  borders, the country is divided into a joint Bosniak/Croat
  Federation (about 51% of the territory) and the Bosnian Serb-led
  Republika Srpska or RS (about 49% of the territory); the region
  called Herzegovina is contiguous to Croatia and Montenegro, and
  traditionally has been settled by an ethnic Croat majority in the
  west and an ethnic Serb majority in the east

Botswana
  landlocked; population concentrated in eastern part of the
  country

Bouvet Island
  covered by glacial ice; declared a nature reserve
  Norway

Brazil
  largest country in South America; shares common boundaries
  with every South American country except Chile and Ecuador

British Indian Ocean Territory
  archipelago of 55 islands; Diego
  Garcia, largest and southernmost island, occupies strategic location
  in central Indian Ocean; island is site of joint US-UK military
  facility

British Virgin Islands
  strong ties to nearby US Virgin Islands and
  Puerto Rico

Brunei
  close to vital sea lanes through South China Sea linking
  Indian and Pacific Oceans; two parts physically separated by
  Malaysia; almost an enclave within Malaysia

Bulgaria
  strategic location near Turkish Straits; controls key land
  routes from Europe to Middle East and Asia

Burkina Faso
  landlocked savanna cut by the three principal rivers of
  the Black, Red, and White Voltas

Burma
  strategic location near major Indian Ocean shipping lanes

Burundi
  landlocked; straddles crest of the Nile-Congo watershed; the
  Kagera, which drains into Lake Victoria, is the most remote
  headstream of the White Nile

Cambodia
  a land of paddies and forests dominated by the Mekong River
  and Tonle Sap

Cameroon
  sometimes referred to as the hinge of Africa; throughout
  the country there are areas of thermal springs and indications of
  current or prior volcanic activity; Mount Cameroon, the highest
  mountain in Sub-Saharan west Africa, is an active volcano

Canada
  second-largest country in world (after Russia); strategic
  location between Russia and US via north polar route; approximately
  90% of the population is concentrated within 160 km of the US border

Cape Verde
  strategic location 500 km from west coast of Africa near
  major north-south sea routes; important communications station;
  important sea and air refueling site

Cayman Islands
  important location between Cuba and Central America

Central African Republic
  landlocked; almost the precise center of
  Africa

Chad
  landlocked; Lake Chad is the most significant water body in the
  Sahel

Chile
  strategic location relative to sea lanes between Atlantic and
  Pacific Oceans (Strait of Magellan, Beagle Channel, Drake Passage);
  Atacama Desert is one of world's driest regions

China
  world's fourth largest country (after Russia, Canada, and US);
  Mount Everest on the border with Nepal is the world's tallest peak

Christmas Island
  located along major sea lanes of Indian Ocean

Clipperton Island
  reef 12 km in circumference

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  islands are thickly covered with coconut
  palms and other vegetation; site of a World War I naval battle in
  November 1914 between the Australian light cruiser HMAS Sydney and
  the German raider SMS Emden; after being heavily damaged in the
  engagement, the Emden was beached by her captain on North Keeling
  Island

Colombia
  only South American country with coastlines on both the
  North Pacific Ocean and Caribbean Sea

Comoros
  important location at northern end of Mozambique Channel

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  straddles equator; has narrow
  strip of land that controls the lower Congo River and is only outlet
  to South Atlantic Ocean; dense tropical rain forest in central river
  basin and eastern highlands

Congo, Republic of the
  about 70% of the population lives in
  Brazzaville, Pointe-Noire, or along the railroad between them

Cook Islands
  the northern Cook Islands are seven low-lying, sparsely
  populated, coral atolls; the southern Cook Islands, where most of
  the population lives, consist of eight elevated, fertile, volcanic
  isles, including the largest, Rarotonga, at 67 sq km

Coral Sea Islands
  important nesting area for birds and turtles

Costa Rica
  four volcanoes, two of them active, rise near the capital
  of San Jose in the center of the country; one of the volcanoes,
  Irazu, erupted destructively in 1963-65

Cote d'Ivoire
  most of the inhabitants live along the sandy coastal
  region; apart from the capital area, the forested interior is
  sparsely populated

Croatia
  controls most land routes from Western Europe to Aegean Sea
  and Turkish Straits; most Adriatic Sea islands lie off the coast of
  Croatia - some 1,200 islands, islets, ridges, and rocks

Cuba
  largest country in Caribbean and westernmost island of the
  Greater Antilles

Cyprus
  the third largest island in the Mediterranean Sea (after
  Sicily and Sardinia)

Czech Republic
  landlocked; strategically located astride some of
  oldest and most significant land routes in Europe; Moravian Gate is
  a traditional military corridor between the North European Plain and
  the Danube in central Europe

Denmark
  controls Danish Straits (Skagerrak and Kattegat) linking
  Baltic and North Seas; about one-quarter of the population lives in
  greater Copenhagen

Dhekelia
  British extraterritorial rights also extended to several
  small off-post sites scattered across Cyprus; of the Sovereign Base
  Area land 60% is privately owned and farmed, 20% is owned by the
  Ministry of Defense, and 20% is SBA Crown land

Djibouti
  strategic location near world's busiest shipping lanes and
  close to Arabian oilfields; terminus of rail traffic into Ethiopia;
  mostly wasteland; Lac Assal (Lake Assal) is the lowest point in
  Africa

Dominica
  known as "The Nature Island of the Caribbean" due to its
  spectacular, lush, and varied flora and fauna, which are protected
  by an extensive natural park system; the most mountainous of the
  Lesser Antilles, its volcanic peaks are cones of lava craters and
  include Boiling Lake, the second-largest, thermally active lake in
  the world

Dominican Republic
  shares island of Hispaniola with Haiti

Ecuador
  Cotopaxi in Andes is highest active volcano in world

Egypt
  controls Sinai Peninsula, only land bridge between Africa and
  remainder of Eastern Hemisphere; controls Suez Canal, a sea link
  between Indian Ocean and Mediterranean Sea; size, and juxtaposition
  to Israel, establish its major role in Middle Eastern geopolitics;
  dependence on upstream neighbors; dominance of Nile basin issues;
  prone to influxes of refugees

El Salvador
  smallest Central American country and only one without a
  coastline on Caribbean Sea

Equatorial Guinea
  insular and continental regions widely separated

Eritrea
  strategic geopolitical position along world's busiest
  shipping lanes; Eritrea retained the entire coastline of Ethiopia
  along the Red Sea upon de jure independence from Ethiopia on 24 May
  1993

Estonia
  the mainland terrain is flat, boggy, and partly wooded;
  offshore lie more than 1,500 islands

Ethiopia
  landlocked - entire coastline along the Red Sea was lost
  with the de jure independence of Eritrea on 24 May 1993; the Blue
  Nile, the chief headstream of the Nile by water volume, rises in
  T'ana Hayk (Lake Tana) in northwest Ethiopia; three major crops are
  believed to have originated in Ethiopia: coffee, grain sorghum, and
  castor bean

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  deeply indented coast provides
  good natural harbors; short growing season

Faroe Islands
  archipelago of 17 inhabited islands and one
  uninhabited island, and a few uninhabited islets; strategically
  located along important sea lanes in northeastern Atlantic;
  precipitous terrain limits habitation to small coastal lowlands

Fiji
  includes 332 islands; approximately 110 are inhabited

Finland
  long boundary with Russia; Helsinki is northernmost national
  capital on European continent; population concentrated on small
  southwestern coastal plain

France
  largest West European nation

French Polynesia
  includes five archipelagoes (four volcanic, one
  coral); Makatea in French Polynesia is one of the three great
  phosphate rock islands in the Pacific Ocean - the others are Banaba
  (Ocean Island) in Kiribati and Nauru

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  islands component is widely
  scattered across remote locations in the southern Indian Ocean
  Bassas da India (Iles Eparses): the atoll is a circular reef that
  sits atop a long-extinct, submerged volcano
  Europa Island and Juan de Nova Island (Iles Eparses): wildlife
  sanctuary for seabirds and sea turtles
  Glorioso Island (Iles Eparses): the islands and rocks are surrounded
  by an extensive reef system
  Tromelin Island (Iles Eparses): climatologically important location
  for forecasting cyclones in the western Indian Ocean; wildlife
  sanctuary (seabirds, tortoises)

Gabon
  a small population and oil and mineral reserves have helped
  Gabon become one of Africa's wealthier countries; in general, these
  circumstances have allowed the country to maintain and conserve its
  pristine rain forest and rich biodiversity

Gambia, The
  almost an enclave of Senegal; smallest country on the
  continent of Africa

Gaza Strip
  strategic strip of land along Mideast-North African trade
  routes has experienced an incredibly turbulent history; the town of
  Gaza itself has been besieged countless times in its history

Georgia
  strategically located east of the Black Sea; Georgia
  controls much of the Caucasus Mountains and the routes through them

Germany
  strategic location on North European Plain and along the
  entrance to the Baltic Sea

Ghana
  Lake Volta is the world's largest artificial lake

Gibraltar
  strategic location on Strait of Gibraltar that links the
  North Atlantic Ocean and Mediterranean Sea

Greece
  strategic location dominating the Aegean Sea and southern
  approach to Turkish Straits; a peninsular country, possessing an
  archipelago of about 2,000 islands

Greenland
  dominates North Atlantic Ocean between North America and
  Europe; sparse population confined to small settlements along coast;
  close to one-quarter of the population lives in the capital, Nuuk;
  world's second largest ice cap

Grenada
  the administration of the islands of the Grenadines group is
  divided between Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and Grenada

Guam
  largest and southernmost island in the Mariana Islands
  archipelago; strategic location in western North Pacific Ocean

Guatemala
  no natural harbors on west coast

Guernsey
  large, deepwater harbor at Saint Peter Port

Guinea
  the Niger and its important tributary the Milo have their
  sources in the Guinean highlands

Guinea-Bissau
  this small country is swampy along its western coast
  and low-lying inland

Guyana
  the third-smallest country in South America after Suriname
  and Uruguay; substantial portions of its western and eastern
  territories are claimed by Venezuela and Suriname respectively

Haiti
  shares island of Hispaniola with Dominican Republic (western
  one-third is Haiti, eastern two-thirds is the Dominican Republic)

Heard Island and McDonald Islands
  Mawson Peak on Heard Island is the
  highest Australian mountain (at 2,745 meters, it is taller than Mt.
  Kosciuszko in Australia proper), and one of only two active
  volcanoes located in Australian territory, the other being McDonald
  Island; in 1992, McDonald Island broke its dormancy and began
  erupting; it has erupted several times since, the most recent being
  in 2005

Holy See (Vatican City)
  landlocked; enclave in Rome, Italy; world's
  smallest state; beyond the territorial boundary of Vatican City, the
  Lateran Treaty of 1929 grants the Holy See extraterritorial
  authority over 23 sites in Rome and five outside of Rome, including
  the Pontifical Palace at Castel Gandolfo (the Pope's summer
  residence)

Honduras
  has only a short Pacific coast but a long Caribbean
  shoreline, including the virtually uninhabited eastern Mosquito Coast

Hong Kong
  more than 200 islands

Hungary
  landlocked; strategic location astride main land routes
  between Western Europe and Balkan Peninsula as well as between
  Ukraine and Mediterranean basin; the north-south flowing Duna
  (Danube) and Tisza Rivers divide the country into three large regions

Iceland
  strategic location between Greenland and Europe; westernmost
  European country; Reykjavik is the northernmost national capital in
  the world; more land covered by glaciers than in all of continental
  Europe

India
  dominates South Asian subcontinent; near important Indian
  Ocean trade routes; Kanchenjunga, third tallest mountain in the
  world, lies on the border with Nepal

Indian Ocean
  major chokepoints include Bab el Mandeb, Strait of
  Hormuz, Strait of Malacca, southern access to the Suez Canal, and
  the Lombok Strait

Indonesia
  archipelago of 17,508 islands (6,000 inhabited); straddles
  equator; strategic location astride or along major sea lanes from
  Indian Ocean to Pacific Ocean

Iran
  strategic location on the Persian Gulf and Strait of Hormuz,
  which are vital maritime pathways for crude oil transport

Iraq
  strategic location on Shatt al Arab waterway and at the head of
  the Persian Gulf

Ireland
  strategic location on major air and sea routes between North
  America and northern Europe; over 40% of the population resides
  within 100 km of Dublin

Isle of Man
  one small islet, the Calf of Man, lies to the southwest
  and is a bird sanctuary

Israel
  there are about 340 Israeli civilian sites - including 100
  small outpost communities in the West Bank - as well as 42 sites in
  the Golan Heights, 0 in the Gaza Strip, and 29 in East Jerusalem
  (July 2008 est.); Lake Tiberias (Sea of Galilee) is an important
  freshwater source

Italy
  strategic location dominating central Mediterranean as well as
  southern sea and air approaches to Western Europe

Jamaica
  strategic location between Cayman Trench and Jamaica
  Channel, the main sea lanes for the Panama Canal

Jan Mayen
  barren volcanic island with some moss and grass

Japan
  strategic location in northeast Asia

Jersey
  largest and southernmost of Channel Islands; about 30% of
  population concentrated in Saint Helier

Jordan
  strategic location at the head of the Gulf of Aqaba and as
  the Arab country that shares the longest border with Israel and the
  occupied West Bank

Kazakhstan
  landlocked; Russia leases approximately 6,000 sq km of
  territory enclosing the Baykonur Cosmodrome; in January 2004,
  Kazakhstan and Russia extended the lease to 2050

Kenya
  the Kenyan Highlands comprise one of the most successful
  agricultural production regions in Africa; glaciers are found on
  Mount Kenya, Africa's second highest peak; unique physiography
  supports abundant and varied wildlife of scientific and economic
  value

Kiribati
  21 of the 33 islands are inhabited; Banaba (Ocean Island)
  in Kiribati is one of the three great phosphate rock islands in the
  Pacific Ocean - the others are Makatea in French Polynesia, and Nauru

Korea, North
  strategic location bordering China, South Korea, and
  Russia; mountainous interior is isolated and sparsely populated

Korea, South
  strategic location on Korea Strait

Kuwait
  strategic location at head of Persian Gulf

Kyrgyzstan
  landlocked; entirely mountainous, dominated by the Tien
  Shan range; many tall peaks, glaciers, and high-altitude lakes

Laos
  landlocked; most of the country is mountainous and thickly
  forested; the Mekong River forms a large part of the western
  boundary with Thailand

Latvia
  most of the country is composed of fertile, low-lying plains,
  with some hills in the east

Lebanon
  Nahr el Litani is the only major river in Near East not
  crossing an international boundary; rugged terrain historically
  helped isolate, protect, and develop numerous factional groups based
  on religion, clan, and ethnicity

Lesotho
  landlocked, completely surrounded by South Africa;
  mountainous, more than 80% of the country is 1,800 m above sea level

Liberia
  facing the Atlantic Ocean, the coastline is characterized by
  lagoons, mangrove swamps, and river-deposited sandbars; the inland
  grassy plateau supports limited agriculture

Libya
  more than 90% of the country is desert or semidesert

Liechtenstein
  along with Uzbekistan, one of only two doubly
  landlocked countries in the world; variety of microclimatic
  variations based on elevation

Lithuania
  fertile central plains are separated by hilly uplands that
  are ancient glacial deposits

Luxembourg
  landlocked; the only Grand Duchy in the world

Macau
  essentially urban; an area of land reclaimed from the sea
  measuring 5.2 sq km and known as Cotai now connects the islands of
  Coloane and Taipa; the island area is connected to the mainland
  peninsula by three bridges

Macedonia
  landlocked; major transportation corridor from Western and
  Central Europe to Aegean Sea and Southern Europe to Western Europe

Madagascar
  world's fourth-largest island; strategic location along
  Mozambique Channel

Malawi
  landlocked; Lake Nyasa, some 580 km long, is the country's
  most prominent physical feature

Malaysia
  strategic location along Strait of Malacca and southern
  South China Sea

Maldives
  1,190 coral islands grouped into 26 atolls (200 inhabited
  islands, plus 80 islands with tourist resorts); archipelago with
  strategic location astride and along major sea lanes in Indian Ocean

Mali
  landlocked; divided into three natural zones: the southern,
  cultivated Sudanese; the central, semiarid Sahelian; and the
  northern, arid Saharan

Malta
  the country comprises an archipelago, with only the three
  largest islands (Malta, Ghawdex or Gozo, and Kemmuna or Comino)
  being inhabited; numerous bays provide good harbors; Malta and
  Tunisia are discussing the commercial exploitation of the
  continental shelf between their countries, particularly for oil
  exploration

Marshall Islands
  the Marshall Islands Bikini and Enewetak are former
  US nuclear test sites; Kwajalein atoll, famous as a World War II
  battleground, surrounds the world's largest lagoon and is used as a
  US missile test range; the island city of Ebeye is the second
  largest settlement in the Marshall Islands, after the capital of
  Majuro, and one of the most densely populated locations in the
  Pacific

Mauritania
  most of the population concentrated in the cities of
  Nouakchott and Nouadhibou and along the Senegal River in the
  southern part of the country

Mauritius
  the main island, from which the country derives its name,
  is of volcanic origin and is almost entirely surrounded by coral
  reefs; home of the dodo, a large flightless bird related to pigeons,
  driven to extinction by the end of the 17th century through a
  combination of hunting and the introduction of predatory species

Mayotte
  part of Comoro Archipelago (18 islands)

Mexico
  strategic location on southern border of US; corn (maize),
  one of the world's major grain crops, is thought to have originated
  in Mexico

Micronesia, Federated States of
  four major island groups totaling
  607 islands

Moldova
  landlocked; well endowed with various sedimentary rocks and
  minerals including sand, gravel, gypsum, and limestone

Monaco
  second-smallest independent state in the world (after Holy
  See); almost entirely urban

Mongolia
  landlocked; strategic location between China and Russia

Montenegro
  strategic location along the Adriatic coast

Montserrat
  the island is entirely volcanic in origin and comprised
  of three major volcanic centers of differing ages

Morocco
  strategic location along Strait of Gibraltar

Mozambique
  the Zambezi flows through the north-central and most
  fertile part of the country

Namibia
  first country in the world to incorporate the protection of
  the environment into its constitution; some 14% of the land is
  protected, including virtually the entire Namib Desert coastal strip

Nauru
  Nauru is one of the three great phosphate rock islands in the
  Pacific Ocean - the others are Banaba (Ocean Island) in Kiribati and
  Makatea in French Polynesia; only 53 km south of Equator

Navassa Island
  strategic location 160 km south of the US Naval Base
  at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba; mostly exposed rock with numerous solution
  holes but with enough grassland to support goat herds; dense stands
  of fig trees, scattered cactus

Nepal
  landlocked; strategic location between China and India;
  contains eight of world's 10 highest peaks, including Mount Everest
  and Kanchenjunga - the world's tallest and third tallest - on the
  borders with China and India respectively

Netherlands
  located at mouths of three major European rivers (Rhine,
  Maas or Meuse, and Schelde)

Netherlands Antilles
  the five islands of the Netherlands Antilles
  are divided geographically into the Leeward Islands (northern) group
  (Saba, Sint Eustatius, and Sint Maarten) and the Windward Islands
  (southern) group (Bonaire and Curacao); the island of Saint Martin
  is the smallest landmass in the world shared by two independent
  states, the French territory of Saint Martin and the Dutch territory
  of Sint Maarten

New Caledonia
  consists of the main island of New Caledonia (one of
  the largest in the Pacific Ocean), the archipelago of Iles Loyaute,
  and numerous small, sparsely populated islands and atolls

New Zealand
  about 80% of the population lives in cities; Wellington
  is the southernmost national capital in the world

Nicaragua
  largest country in Central America; contains the largest
  freshwater body in Central America, Lago de Nicaragua

Niger
  landlocked; one of the hottest countries in the world;
  northern four-fifths is desert, southern one-fifth is savanna,
  suitable for livestock and limited agriculture

Nigeria
  the Niger enters the country in the northwest and flows
  southward through tropical rain forests and swamps to its delta in
  the Gulf of Guinea

Niue
  one of world's largest coral islands

Norfolk Island
  most of the 32 km coastline consists of almost
  inaccessible cliffs, but the land slopes down to the sea in one
  small southern area on Sydney Bay, where the capital of Kingston is
  situated

Northern Mariana Islands
  strategic location in the North Pacific
  Ocean

Norway
  about two-thirds mountains; some 50,000 islands off its much
  indented coastline; strategic location adjacent to sea lanes and air
  routes in North Atlantic; one of most rugged and longest coastlines
  in the world

Oman
  strategic location on Musandam Peninsula adjacent to Strait of
  Hormuz, a vital transit point for world crude oil

Pacific Ocean
  the major chokepoints are the Bering Strait, Panama
  Canal, Luzon Strait, and the Singapore Strait; the Equator divides
  the Pacific Ocean into the North Pacific Ocean and the South Pacific
  Ocean; dotted with low coral islands and rugged volcanic islands in
  the southwestern Pacific Ocean

Pakistan
  controls Khyber Pass and Bolan Pass, traditional invasion
  routes between Central Asia and the Indian Subcontinent

Palau
  westernmost archipelago in the Caroline chain, consists of six
  island groups totaling more than 300 islands; includes World War II
  battleground of Beliliou (Peleliu) and world-famous rock islands

Panama
  strategic location on eastern end of isthmus forming land
  bridge connecting North and South America; controls Panama Canal
  that links North Atlantic Ocean via Caribbean Sea with North Pacific
  Ocean

Papua New Guinea
  shares island of New Guinea with Indonesia; one of
  world's largest swamps along southwest coast

Paracel Islands
  composed of 130 small coral islands and reefs
  divided into the northeast Amphitrite Group and the western Crescent
  Group

Paraguay
  landlocked; lies between Argentina, Bolivia, and Brazil;
  population concentrated in southern part of country

Peru
  shares control of Lago Titicaca, world's highest navigable
  lake, with Bolivia; a remote slope of Nevado Mismi, a 5,316 m peak,
  is the ultimate source of the Amazon River

Philippines
  the Philippine archipelago is made up of 7,107 islands;
  favorably located in relation to many of Southeast Asia's main water
  bodies: the South China Sea, Philippine Sea, Sulu Sea, Celebes Sea,
  and Luzon Strait

Pitcairn Islands
  Britain's most isolated dependency; only the larger
  island of Pitcairn is inhabited but it has no port or natural
  harbor; supplies must be transported by rowed longboat from larger
  ships stationed offshore

Poland
  historically, an area of conflict because of flat terrain and
  the lack of natural barriers on the North European Plain

Portugal
  Azores and Madeira Islands occupy strategic locations along
  western sea approaches to Strait of Gibraltar

Puerto Rico
  important location along the Mona Passage - a key
  shipping lane to the Panama Canal; San Juan is one of the biggest
  and best natural harbors in the Caribbean; many small rivers and
  high central mountains ensure land is well watered; south coast
  relatively dry; fertile coastal plain belt in north

Qatar
  strategic location in central Persian Gulf near major
  petroleum deposits

Romania
  controls most easily traversable land route between the
  Balkans, Moldova, and Ukraine

Russia
  largest country in the world in terms of area but unfavorably
  located in relation to major sea lanes of the world; despite its
  size, much of the country lacks proper soils and climates (either
  too cold or too dry) for agriculture; Mount El'brus is Europe's
  tallest peak

Rwanda
  landlocked; most of the country is savanna grassland with the
  population predominantly rural

Saint Helena
  Saint Helena harbors at least 40 species of plants
  unknown anywhere else in the world; Ascension is a breeding ground
  for sea turtles and sooty terns; Queen Mary's Peak on Tristan da
  Cunha is the highest island mountain in the South Atlantic and a
  prominent landmark on the sea lanes around southern Africa

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  with coastlines in the shape of a baseball bat
  and ball, the two volcanic islands are separated by a 3-km-wide
  channel called The Narrows; on the southern tip of long, baseball
  bat-shaped Saint Kitts lies the Great Salt Pond; Nevis Peak sits in
  the center of its almost circular namesake island and its ball shape
  complements that of its sister island

Saint Lucia
  the twin Pitons (Gros Piton and Petit Piton), striking
  cone-shaped peaks south of Soufriere, are one of the scenic natural
  highlights of the Caribbean

Saint Martin
  the island of Saint Martin is the smallest landmass in
  the world shared by two independent states, the French territory of
  Saint Martin and the Dutch territory of Sint Maarten

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  vegetation scanty

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  the administration of the islands
  of the Grenadines group is divided between Saint Vincent and the
  Grenadines and Grenada; Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is
  comprised of 32 islands and cays

Samoa
  occupies an almost central position within Polynesia

San Marino
  landlocked; smallest independent state in Europe after
  the Holy See and Monaco; dominated by the Apennines

Sao Tome and Principe
  the smallest country in Africa; the two main
  islands form part of a chain of extinct volcanoes and both are
  mountainous

Saudi Arabia
  extensive coastlines on Persian Gulf and Red Sea
  provide great leverage on shipping (especially crude oil) through
  Persian Gulf and Suez Canal

Senegal
  westernmost country on the African continent; The Gambia is
  almost an enclave within Senegal

Serbia
  controls one of the major land routes from Western Europe to
  Turkey and the Near East

Seychelles
  41 granitic and about 75 coralline islands

Sierra Leone
  rainfall along the coast can reach 495 cm (195 inches)
  a year, making it one of the wettest places along coastal, western
  Africa

Singapore
  focal point for Southeast Asian sea routes

Slovakia
  landlocked; most of the country is rugged and mountainous;
  the Tatra Mountains in the north are interspersed with many scenic
  lakes and valleys

Slovenia
  despite its small size, this eastern Alpine country
  controls some of Europe's major transit routes

Solomon Islands
  strategic location on sea routes between the South
  Pacific Ocean, the Solomon Sea, and the Coral Sea; on 2 April 2007
  an undersea earthquake measuring 8.1 on the Richter scale occurred
  345 km WNW of the capital Honiara, the resulting tsunami devastated
  coastal areas of Western and Choiseul provinces with dozens of
  deaths and thousands dislocated; the provincial capital of Gizo was
  especially hard hit

Somalia
  strategic location on Horn of Africa along southern
  approaches to Bab el Mandeb and route through Red Sea and Suez Canal

South Africa
  South Africa completely surrounds Lesotho and almost
  completely surrounds Swaziland

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  the north coast of
  South Georgia has several large bays, which provide good anchorage;
  reindeer, introduced early in the 20th century, live on South Georgia

Southern Ocean
  the major chokepoint is the Drake Passage between
  South America and Antarctica; the Polar Front (Antarctic
  Convergence) is the best natural definition of the northern extent
  of the Southern Ocean; it is a distinct region at the middle of the
  Antarctic Circumpolar Current that separates the cold polar surface
  waters to the south from the warmer waters to the north; the Front
  and the Current extend entirely around Antarctica, reaching south of
  60 degrees south near New Zealand and near 48 degrees south in the
  far South Atlantic coinciding with the path of the maximum westerly
  winds

Spain
  strategic location along approaches to Strait of Gibraltar

Spratly Islands
  strategically located near several primary shipping
  lanes in the central South China Sea; includes numerous small
  islands, atolls, shoals, and coral reefs

Sri Lanka
  strategic location near major Indian Ocean sea lanes

Sudan
  largest country in Africa; dominated by the Nile and its
  tributaries

Suriname
  smallest independent country on South American continent;
  mostly tropical rain forest; great diversity of flora and fauna
  that, for the most part, is increasingly threatened by new
  development; relatively small population, mostly along the coast

Svalbard
  northernmost part of the Kingdom of Norway; consists of
  nine main islands; glaciers and snowfields cover 60% of the total
  area; Spitsbergen Island is the site of the Svalbard Global Seed
  Vault, a seed repository established by the Global Crop Diversity
  Trust and the Norwegian Government

Swaziland
  landlocked; almost completely surrounded by South Africa

Sweden
  strategic location along Danish Straits linking Baltic and
  North Seas

Switzerland
  landlocked; crossroads of northern and southern Europe;
  along with southeastern France, northern Italy, and southwestern
  Austria, has the highest elevations in the Alps

Syria
  there are 42 Israeli settlements and civilian land use sites
  in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights (August 2005 est.)

Taiwan
  strategic location adjacent to both the Taiwan Strait and the
  Luzon Strait

Tajikistan
  landlocked; mountainous region dominated by the
  Trans-Alay Range in the north and the Pamirs in the southeast;
  highest point, Qullai Ismoili Somoni (formerly Communism Peak), was
  the tallest mountain in the former USSR

Tanzania
  Kilimanjaro is highest point in Africa; bordered by three
  of the largest lakes on the continent: Lake Victoria (the world's
  second-largest freshwater lake) in the north, Lake Tanganyika (the
  world's second deepest) in the west, and Lake Nyasa in the southwest

Thailand
  controls only land route from Asia to Malaysia and Singapore

Timor-Leste
  Timor comes from the Malay word for "East"; the island
  of Timor is part of the Malay Archipelago and is the largest and
  easternmost of the Lesser Sunda Islands

Togo
  the country's length allows it to stretch through six distinct
  geographic regions; climate varies from tropical to savanna

Tokelau
  consists of three atolls (Atafu, Fakaofo, Nukunonu), each
  with a lagoon surrounded by a number of reef-bound islets of varying
  length and rising to over 3 m above sea level

Tonga
  archipelago of 169 islands (36 inhabited)

Trinidad and Tobago
  Pitch Lake, on Trinidad's southwestern coast, is
  the world's largest natural reservoir of asphalt

Tunisia
  strategic location in central Mediterranean; Malta and
  Tunisia are discussing the commercial exploitation of the
  continental shelf between their countries, particularly for oil
  exploration

Turkey
  strategic location controlling the Turkish Straits (Bosporus,
  Sea of Marmara, Dardanelles) that link Black and Aegean Seas; Mount
  Ararat, the legendary landing place of Noah's ark, is in the far
  eastern portion of the country

Turkmenistan
  landlocked; the western and central low-lying desolate
  portions of the country make up the great Garagum (Kara-Kum) desert,
  which occupies over 80% of the country; eastern part is plateau

Turks and Caicos Islands
  about 40 islands (eight inhabited)

Tuvalu
  one of the smallest and most remote countries on Earth; six
  of the nine coral atolls - Nanumea, Nui, Vaitupu, Nukufetau,
  Funafuti, and Nukulaelae - have lagoons open to the ocean; Nanumaya
  and Niutao have landlocked lagoons; Niulakita does not have a lagoon

Uganda
  landlocked; fertile, well-watered country with many lakes and
  rivers

Ukraine
  strategic position at the crossroads between Europe and
  Asia; second-largest country in Europe

United Arab Emirates
  strategic location along southern approaches to
  Strait of Hormuz, a vital transit point for world crude oil

United Kingdom
  lies near vital North Atlantic sea lanes; only 35 km
  from France and linked by tunnel under the English Channel; because
  of heavily indented coastline, no location is more than 125 km from
  tidal waters

United States
  world's third-largest country by size (after Russia
  and Canada) and by population (after China and India); Mt. McKinley
  is highest point in North America and Death Valley the lowest point
  on the continent

United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
  Baker, Howland, and
  Jarvis Islands: scattered vegetation consisting of grasses,
  prostrate vines, and low growing shrubs; primarily a nesting,
  roosting, and foraging habitat for seabirds, shorebirds, and marine
  wildlife; closed to the public
  Johnston Atoll: Johnston Island and Sand Island are natural islands,
  which have been expanded by coral dredging; North Island (Akau) and
  East Island (Hikina) are manmade islands formed from coral dredging;
  the egg-shaped reef is 34 km in circumference; closed to the public
  Kingman Reef: barren coral atoll with deep interior lagoon; closed
  to the public
  Midway Islands: a coral atoll managed as a national wildlife refuge
  and open to the public for wildlife-related recreation in the form
  of wildlife observation and photography
  Palmyra Atoll: the high rainfall and resulting lush vegetation make
  the environment of this atoll unique among the US Pacific Island
  territories; supports a large undisturbed stand of Pisonia beach
  forest

Uruguay
  second-smallest South American country (after Suriname);
  most of the low-lying landscape (three-quarters of the country) is
  grassland, ideal for cattle and sheep raising

Uzbekistan
  along with Liechtenstein, one of the only two doubly
  landlocked countries in the world

Vanuatu
  a Y-shaped chain of four main islands and 80 smaller
  islands; several of the islands have active volcanoes

Venezuela
  on major sea and air routes linking North and South
  America; Angel Falls in the Guiana Highlands is the world's highest
  waterfall

Vietnam
  extending 1,650 km north to south, the country is only 50 km
  across at its narrowest point

Virgin Islands
  important location along the Anegada Passage - a key
  shipping lane for the Panama Canal; Saint Thomas has one of the best
  natural deepwater harbors in the Caribbean

Wake Island
  strategic location in the North Pacific Ocean; emergency
  landing location for transpacific flights

Wallis and Futuna
  both island groups have fringing reefs

West Bank
  landlocked; highlands are main recharge area for Israel's
  coastal aquifers; there are about 340 Israeli civilian
  sites--including 100 small outpost communities in the West Bank and
  29 sites in East Jerusalem (July 2008 est.)

Western Sahara
  the waters off the coast are particularly rich
  fishing areas

World
  the world is now thought to be about 4.55 billion years old,
  just about one-third of the 13.7-billion-year age estimated for the
  universe

Yemen
  strategic location on Bab el Mandeb, the strait linking the
  Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden, one of world's most active shipping
  lanes

Zambia
  landlocked; the Zambezi forms a natural riverine boundary
  with Zimbabwe

Zimbabwe
  landlocked; the Zambezi forms a natural riverine boundary
  with Zambia; in full flood (February-April) the massive Victoria
  Falls on the river forms the world's largest curtain of falling water

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2115  Political pressure groups and leaders


Afghanistan
  other: religious groups; tribal leaders

Albania
  Citizens Advocacy Office [Kreshnik SPAHIU]; Confederation of
  Trade Unions of Albania or KSSH [Kastriot MUCO]; Front for Albanian
  National Unification or FBKSH [Gafur ADILI]; Mjaft Movement; Omonia
  [Jani JANI]; Union of Independent Trade Unions of Albania or BSPSH
  [Gezim KALAJA]

Algeria
  The Algerian Human Rights League or LADDH [Hocine ZEHOUANE];
  SOS Disparus [Nacera DUTOUR]; Somoud [Ali MERABET]

American Samoa
  Population Pressure LAS (addresses the growing
  population pressures)

Andorra
  NA

Angola
  Front for the Liberation of the Enclave of Cabinda or FLEC
  [N'zita Henriques TIAGO, Antonio Bento BEMBE]

Anguilla
  NA

Antigua and Barbuda
  Antigua Trades and Labor Union or ATLU [William
  ROBINSON]; People's Democratic Movement or PDM [Hugh MARSHALL]

Argentina
  Argentine Association of Pharmaceutical Labs (CILFA);
  Argentine Industrial Union (manufacturers' association); Argentine
  Rural Confederation or CRA (small to medium landowners'
  association); Argentine Rural Society (large landowners'
  association); Central of Argentine Workers or CTA (a radical union
  for employed and unemployed workers); General Confederation of Labor
  or CGT (Peronist-leaning umbrella labor organization); Roman
  Catholic Church
  other: business organizations; Peronist-dominated labor movement;
  Piquetero groups (popular protest organizations that can be either
  pro or anti-government); students

Armenia
  Aylentrank (Impeachment) [Nikol PASHINYAN]; Yerkrapah Union
  [Manvel GRIGORIAN]

Aruba
  other: environmental groups

Australia
  other: business groups; environmental groups; social
  groups; trade unions

Austria
  Austrian Trade Union Federation or OeGB (nominally
  independent but primarily Social Democratic); Federal Economic
  Chamber; OeVP-oriented Association of Austrian Industrialists or IV;
  Roman Catholic Church, including its chief lay organization,
  Catholic Action
  other: three composite leagues of the Austrian People's Party or
  OeVP representing business, labor, farmers, and other nongovernment
  organizations in the areas of environment and human rights

Azerbaijan
  Armenian Nagorno-Karabakh Republic (self-proclaimed);
  Karabakh Liberation Organization; Sadval, Lezgin movement; Talysh
  independence movement; Union of Pro-Azerbaijani Forces or UPAF

Bahamas, The
  Friends of the Environment
  other: trade unions

Bahrain
  Shia activists; Sunni Islamist legislators
  other: several small leftist and other groups are active

Bangladesh
  Advocacy to End Gender-based Violence through the MoWCA
  (Ministry of Women's and Children's Affairs)
  other: environmentalists; Islamist groups; religious leaders;
  teachers; union leaders

Barbados
  Barbados Secondary Teachers' Union or BSTU [Patrick FROST];
  Barbados Union of Teachers or BUT [Herbert GITTENS]; Congress of
  Trade Unions and Staff Associations of Barbados or CTUSAB, (includes
  the BWU, NUPW, BUT, and BSTU) [Leroy TROTMAN]; Barbados Workers
  Union or BWU [Leroy TROTMAN]; Clement Payne Labor Union [David
  COMISSIONG]; National Union of Public Workers [Joseph GODDARD]

Belarus
  Assembly of Pro-Democratic NGOs [Sergey MATSKEVICH];
  Belarusian Congress of Democratic Trade Unions [Aleksandr YAROSHUK];
  Belarusian Helsinki Committee [Tatiana PROTKO]; Belarusian
  Organization of Working Women [Irina ZHIKHAR]; Charter 97 [Andrey
  SANNIKOV]; For Freedom (unregistered) [Aleksandr MILINKEVICH]; Lenin
  Communist Union of Youth (youth wing of the Belarusian Party of
  Communists or PKB); National Strike Committee of Entrepreneurs
  [Aleksandr VASILYEV, Valery LEVONEVSKY]; Partnership NGO [Nikolay
  ASTREYKA]; Perspektiva kiosk watchdog NGO [Anatol SHUMCHENKO];
  Vyasna [Ales BYALATSKY]; Women's Independent Democratic Movement
  [Ludmila PETINA]; Youth Front (Malady Front) [Dmitriy DASHKEVICH,
  Sergey BAKHUN]; Zubr youth group [Vladimir KOBETS]

Belgium
  Christian, Socialist, and Liberal Trade Unions; Federation
  of Belgian Industries
  other: numerous other associations representing bankers,
  manufacturers, middle-class artisans, and the legal and medical
  professions; various organizations represent the cultural interests
  of Flanders and Wallonia; various peace groups such as Pax Christi
  and groups representing immigrants

Belize
  Society for the Promotion of Education and Research or SPEAR
  [Gustavo PERERA]; Association of Concerned Belizeans or ACB [David
  VASQUEZ]; National Trade Union Congress of Belize or NTUC/B [Rene
  GOMEZ]

Benin
  other: economic groups; environmentalists; political groups;
  teachers' unions and other educational groups

Bermuda
  Bermuda Employer's Union [Eddie SAINTS]; Bermuda Industrial
  Union or BIU [Derrick BURGESS]; Bermuda Public Services Union or
  BPSU [Ed BALL]; Bermuda Union of Teachers [Michael CHARLES]

Bhutan
  United Front for Democracy (exiled)
  other: Buddhist clergy; ethnic Nepalese organizations leading
  militant antigovernment campaign; Indian merchant community

Bolivia
  Sole Confederation of Campesino Workers of Bolivia or CSUTCB
  other: Cocalero groups; indigenous organizations; labor unions

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  other: displaced persons associations;
  student councils; war veterans

Botswana
  First People of the Kalahari (Bushman organization); Pitso
  Ya Ba Tswana; Society for the Promotion of Ikalanga Language
  (Kalanga elites)
  other: diamond mining companies

Brazil
  Landless Workers' Movement or MST
  other: labor unions and federations; large farmers' associations;
  religious groups including evangelical Christian churches and the
  Catholic Church

British Virgin Islands
  The Family Support Network; The Women's Desk
  other: environmentalists

Brunei
  NA

Bulgaria
  Confederation of Independent Trade Unions of Bulgaria or
  CITUB; Podkrepa Labor Confederation
  other: numerous regional, ethnic, and national interest groups with
  various agendas

Burkina Faso
  Burkinabe General Confederation of Labor or CGTB [Tole
  SAGNON]; Burkinabe Movement for Human Rights or MBDHP [Chrysigone
  ZOUGMORE]; Group of 14 February [Benewende STANISLAS]; National
  Confederation of Burkinabe Workers or CNTB [Laurent OUEDRAOGO];
  National Organization of Free Unions or ONSL [Paul KABORE]
  other: watchdog/political action groups throughout the country in
  both organizations and communities

Burma
  Ethnic Nationalities Council or ENC (based in Thailand);
  Federation of Trade Unions-Burma or FTUB (exile trade union and
  labor advocates); National Coalition Government of the Union of
  Burma or NCGUB (self-proclaimed government in exile) ["Prime
  Minister" Dr. SEIN WIN] consists of individuals, some legitimately
  elected to the People's Assembly in 1990 (the group fled to a border
  area and joined insurgents in December 1990 to form parallel
  government in exile); Kachin Independence Organization or KIO; Karen
  National Union or KNU; Karenni National People's Party or KNPP;
  National Council-Union of Burma or NCUB (exile coalition of
  opposition groups); United Wa State Army or UWSA; Union Solidarity
  and Development Association or USDA (pro-regime, a social and
  political mass-member organization) [HTAY OO, general secretary]; 88
  Generation Students (pro-democracy movement) [MIN KO NAING]
  other: several Shan factions

Burundi
  Observatoire de lutte contre la corruption et les
  malversations economiques or OLUCOME [Gabriel RUFYIRI]
  (anti-corruption pressure group)
  other: Hutu and Tutsi militias (loosely organized)

Cambodia
  Cambodian Freedom Fighters or CFF; Partnership for
  Transparency Fund or PTF (anti-corruption organization); Students
  Movement for Democracy; The Committee for Free and Fair Elections or
  Comfrel
  other: human rights organizations; vendors

Cameroon
  Human Rights Defense Group [Albert MUKONG, president];
  Southern Cameroon National Council [Ayamba Ette OTUN]

Canada
  other: agricultural sector; automobile industry; business
  groups; chemical industry; commercial banks; communications sector;
  energy industry; environmentalists; public administration groups;
  steel industry; trade unions

Cape Verde
  other: environmentalists; political pressure groups

Cayman Islands
  National Trust
  other: environmentalists

Central African Republic
  Monam (combating gender-base violence)

Chad
  rebel groups

Chile
  Roman Catholic Church; United Labor Central or CUT includes
  trade unionists from the country's five largest labor confederations
  other: revitalized university student federations at all major
  universities

China
  the China Democracy Party; the Falungong spiritual movement
  note: no substantial political opposition groups exist, although the
  government has identified the organizations listed above as
  subversive groups

Christmas Island
  none

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  The Cocos Islands Youth Support Centre

Colombia
  National Liberation Army or ELN; Revolutionary Armed Forces
  of Colombia or FARC
  note: two largest insurgent groups active in Colombia

Comoros
  other: environmentalists

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  MONUC - UN organization working
  with the government; FARDC (Forces Armees de la Republique du Congo)
  - Army of the Democratic Republic of the Congo which commits
  atrocities on citizens; FDLA (Forces Democratiques de Liberation du
  Rwanda) - Rwandan militia group

Congo, Republic of the
  Congolese Trade Union Congress or CSC;
  General Union of Congolese Pupils and Students or UGEEC;
  Revolutionary Union of Congolese Women or URFC; Union of Congolese
  Socialist Youth or UJSC

Cook Islands
  Reform Conference (lobby for political system changes)
  other: various groups lobbying for political change

Costa Rica
  Authentic Confederation of Democratic Workers or CATD
  (Communist Party affiliate); Chamber of Coffee Growers; Confederated
  Union of Workers or CUT (Communist Party affiliate); Costa Rican
  Confederation of Democratic Workers or CCTD (Liberation Party
  affiliate); Costa Rican Exporter's Chamber or CADEXCO; Costa Rican
  Solidarity Movement; Costa Rican Union of Private Sector Enterprises
  or UCCAEP [Rafael CARRILLO]; Federation of Public Service Workers or
  FTSP; National Association for Economic Development or ANFE;
  National Association of Educators or ANDE; National Association of
  Public and Private Employees or ANEP [Albino VARGAS]; Rerum Novarum
  or CTRN (PLN affiliate) [Gilbert BROWN]

Cote d'Ivoire
  Federation of University and High School Students of
  Cote d'Ivoire or FESCI [Serges KOFFI]; Rally of Houphouetists for
  Democracy and Peace or RHDP [Alphonse DJEDJE MADY]; Young Patriots
  [Charles BLE GOUDE]

Croatia
  other: human rights groups

Cuba
  Human Rights Watch; National Association of Small Farmers

Cyprus
  Confederation of Cypriot Workers or SEK (pro-West);
  Confederation of Revolutionary Labor Unions or Dev-Is; Federation of
  Turkish Cypriot Labor Unions or Turk-Sen; Pan-Cyprian Labor
  Federation or PEO (Communist controlled)

Czech Republic
  Czech-Moravian Confederation of Trade Unions or CMKOS
  [Milan STECH]

Denmark
  Danish Free Press Society (freedom of speech); Danish
  National Socialist Movement or DNSB [Jonni HANSEN] (neo-Nazi
  organization)
  other: human rights groups

Djibouti
  Union for Presidential Majority UMP (coalition includes
  RPP, FRUD, PPSD and PND); Union for Democratic Changeover or UAD
  (opposition coalition includes ARD, MRDD, and UDJ)

Dominica
  Dominica Liberation Movement or DLM (a small leftist party)

Dominican Republic
  Citizen Participation Group (Participacion
  Ciudadania); Collective of Popular Organizations or COP; Foundation
  for Institution-Building and Justice (FINJUS)

Ecuador
  Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador or
  CONAIE [Marlon SANTI, president]; Coordinator of Social Movements or
  CMS [F. Napoleon SANTOS]; Federation of Indigenous Evangelists of
  Ecuador or FEINE [Marco MURILLO, president]; National Federation of
  Indigenous Afro-Ecuatorianos and Peasants or FENOCIN [Pedro DE LA
  CRUZ, president]

Egypt
  Muslim Brotherhood (technically illegal)
  note: despite a constitutional ban against religious-based parties
  and political activity, the technically illegal Muslim Brotherhood
  constitutes Hosni MUBARAK's potentially most significant political
  opposition

El Salvador
  labor organizations - Electrical Industry Union of El
  Salvador or SIES; Federation of the Construction Industry, Similar
  Transport and other activities, or FESINCONTRANS; National
  Confederation of Salvadoran Workers or CNTS; National Union of
  Salvadoran Workers or UNTS; Port Industry Union of El Salvador or
  SIPES; Salvadoran Union of Ex-Petrolleros and Peasant Workers or
  USEPOC; Salvadoran Workers Central or CTS; Workers Union of
  Electrical Corporation or STCEL; business organizations - National
  Association of Small Enterprise or ANEP; Salvadoran Assembly
  Industry Association or ASIC; Salvadoran Industrial Association or
  ASI

Equatorial Guinea
  ASODEGUE (Madrid-based pressure group for
  democratic reform); Global Witness (anti-corruption)

Eritrea
  Eritrean Democratic Party (EDP) [HAGOS, Mesfin]; Eritrean
  Islamic Jihad or EIJ (includes Eritrean Islamic Jihad Movement or
  EIJM also known as the Abu Sihel Movement); Eritrean Islamic
  Salvation or EIS (also known as the Arafa Movement); Eritrean
  Liberation Front or ELF [ABDULLAH Muhammed]; Eritrean National
  Alliance or ENA (a coalition including EIJ, EIS, ELF, and a number
  of ELF factions) [HERUY Tedla Biru]; Eritrean Public Forum or EPF
  [ARADOM Iyob]

Estonia
  Nochnoy Dozor/Night Watch anti-fascist movement (leader
  Alexander KOROBOV)

Ethiopia
  Ethiopian People's Patriotic Front or EPPF; Ogaden National
  Liberation Front or ONLF; Oromo Liberation Front or OLF [DAOUD Ibsa]

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  Falkland Islands Association
  (supports freedom of the people from external causes)

Faroe Islands
  Sea Shepard [Paul WATSON] (preservation of small
  whales)
  other: conservationists

Fiji
  Group Against Racial Discrimination or GARD [Dr. Anirudk SINGH]
  (for restoration of a democratic government); Viti Landowners
  Association

France
  Confederation Francaise Democratique du Travail or CFDT,
  left-leaning labor union with approximately 803,000 members;
  Confederation Generale des Cadres or CGC, independent white-collar
  union with 196,000 members; Confederation Generale du Travail or
  CGT, historically communist labor union with approximately 700,000
  members; Confederation Generale du Travail - Force Ouvriere or FO,
  independent labor union with an estimated 300,000 members; Mouvement
  des Entreprises de France or MEDEF, employers' union with 750,000
  companies as members (claimed)
  French Guiana: conservationists; gold mining pressure groups;
  hunting pressure groups
  Guadeloupe: Christian Movement for the Liberation of Guadeloupe or
  KLPG; General Federation of Guadeloupe Workers or CGT-G; General
  Union of Guadeloupe Workers or UGTG; Movement for an Independent
  Guadeloupe or MPGI; The Socialist Renewal Movement
  Martinique: Caribbean Revolutionary Alliance or ARC; Central Union
  for Martinique Workers or CSTM; Frantz Fanon Circle; League of
  Workers and Peasants; Proletarian Action Group or GAP
  Reunion: NA

French Polynesia
  NA

Gabon
  NA

Gambia, The
  National Environment Agency or NEA; West African Peace
  Building Network-Gambian Chapter or WANEB-GAMBIA; Youth Employment
  Network Gambia or YENGambia
  other: special needs group advocates; teachers and principals

Georgia
  other: Georgian independent deputies from Abkhaz government
  in exile; separatists in the breakaway regions of Abkhazia and South
  Ossetia

Germany
  other: business associations and employers' organizations;
  religious, trade unions, immigrant, expellee, and veterans groups

Ghana
  Christian Aid (water rights); Committee for Joint Action or
  CJA (education reform); National Coalition Against the Privatization
  of Water or CAP (water rights); Oxfam (water rights); Public Citizen
  (water rights); Students Coalition Against EPA [Kwabena Ososukene
  OKAI] (education reform); Third World Network (education reform)

Gibraltar
  Chamber of Commerce; Gibraltar Representatives
  Organization; Women's Association

Greece
  Civil Servants Confederation or ADEDY [Spyros PAPASPYROS];
  Federation of Greek Industries or SEV [Dimitris DASKALOPOULOS];
  General Confederation of Greek Workers or GSEE [Ioannis PANAGOPOULOS]

Greenland
  other: conservationists; environmentalists

Grenada
  Committee for Human Rights in Grenada or CHRG; New Jewel
  Movement Support Group; The British Grenada Friendship Society; The
  New Jewel 19 Committee

Guam
  Guam Federation of Teachers' Union; Guam Waterworks Authority
  Workers
  other: activists; indigenous groups

Guatemala
  Agrarian Owners Group or UNAGRO; Alliance Against Impunity
  or AAI; Committee for Campesino Unity or CUC; Coordinating Committee
  of Agricultural, Commercial, Industrial, and Financial Associations
  or CACIF; Mutual Support Group or GAM

Guernsey
  Stop Traffic Endangering Pedestrian Safety or STEPS; No
  More Masts [Colin FALLAIZE]

Guinea
  National Confederation of Guinean Workers-Labor Union of
  Guinean Workers or CNTG-USTG Alliance (includes National
  Confederation of Guinean Workers or CNTG [Rabiatou Sarah DIALLO] and
  Labor Union of Guinean Workers or USTG [Dr. Ibrahima FOFANA]);
  National Council of Civil Society Organizations of Guinea or CNOSCG
  [Ben Sekou SYLLA]; Syndicate of Guinean Teachers and Researchers or
  SLECG [Dr. Louis M'Bemba SOUMAH]

Guinea-Bissau
  NA

Guyana
  Amerindian People's Association; Guyana Bar Association;
  Guyana Citizens Initiative; Guyana Human Rights Association; Guyana
  Public Service Union or GPSU; Private Sector Commission; Trades
  Union Congress

Haiti
  Autonomous Organizations of Haitian Workers or CATH [Fignole
  ST-CYR]; Confederation of Haitian Workers or CTH; Federation of
  Workers Trade Unions or FOS; General Organization of Independent
  Haitian Workers [Patrick NUMAS]; Grand-Anse Resistance Committee, or
  KOREGA; National Popular Assembly or APN; Papaye Peasants Movement
  or MPP [Chavannes JEAN-BAPTISTE]; Popular Organizations Gathering
  Power or PROP; Protestant Federation of Haiti; Roman Catholic Church

Holy See (Vatican City)
  none (exclusive of influence exercised by
  church officers)

Honduras
  Committee for the Defense of Human Rights in Honduras or
  CODEH; Confederation of Honduran Workers or CTH; Coordinating
  Committee of Popular Organizations or CCOP; General Workers
  Confederation or CGT; Honduran Council of Private Enterprise or
  COHEP; National Association of Honduran Campesinos or ANACH;
  National Union of Campesinos or UNC; Popular Bloc or BP; United
  Confederation of Honduran Workers or CUTH

Hong Kong
  Chinese General Chamber of Commerce (pro-China); Chinese
  Manufacturers' Association of Hong Kong; Confederation of Trade
  Unions or CTU (pro-democracy) [LAU Chin-shek, president; LEE
  Cheuk-yan, general secretary]; Federation of Hong Kong Industries;
  Federation of Trade Unions or FTU (pro-China) [CHENG Yiu-tong,
  executive councilor]; Hong Kong Alliance in Support of the Patriotic
  Democratic Movement in China [Szeto WAH, chairman]; Hong Kong and
  Kowloon Trade Union Council (pro-Taiwan); Hong Kong General Chamber
  of Commerce; Hong Kong Professional Teachers' Union [CHEUNG
  Man-kwong, president]; Neighborhood and Workers' Service Center or
  NWSC (pro-democracy); The Alliance [Bernard CHARNWUT, executive
  committee member]

Hungary
  Air Work Group (works to reduce air pollution in towns and
  cities); Company For Freedom Rights (Tarsasag a Szabadsagjogokert)
  or TASZ (personal data protection); Danube Circle (protests the
  building of the Gabchikovo-Nagymaros dam); Green Future (protests
  the impact of lead contamination of local factory on health of the
  people); environmentalists: Hungarian Ornithological and Nature
  Conservation Society (Magyar Madartani Egyesulet)or MME; Green
  Alternative (Zold Alternativa)

Iceland
  Icelandic Psychiatric Human Rights Group

India
  All Parties Hurriyat Conference in the Kashmir Valley
  (separatist group); Bajrang Dal (religious organization); National
  Socialist Council of Nagaland in the northeast (separatist group);
  Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (religious organization); Vishwa Hindu
  Parishad (religious organization
  other: numerous religious or militant/chauvinistic organizations;
  various separatist groups seeking greater communal and/or regional
  autonomy

Indonesia
  Indonesian Women's Coalition (Koalisi Perempuan - human
  rights group); Islamic Defenders Front or FPI; National Alliance for
  Freedom of Religion and Faith; Oil Palm Watch (environmental)

Iran
  groups that generally support the Islamic Republic: Ansar-e
  Hizballah-Islamic Coalition Party (Motalefeh); Followers of the Line
  of the Imam and the Leader; Islamic Engineers Society; Tehran
  Militant Clergy Association (Ruhaniyat); active pro-reform student
  group: Office of Strengthening Unity (OSU); opposition groups:
  Baluchistan People's Party (BPP); Freedom Movement of Iran; Marz-e
  Por Gohar; National Front; and various ethnic and Monarchist
  organizations; armed political groups that have been repressed by
  the government: Democratic Party of Iranian Kurdistan (KDPI);
  Jundallah; Komala; Mujahidin-e Khalq Organization (MEK or MKO);
  People's Fedayeen; People's Free Life Party of Kurdistan (PJAK)

Iraq
  Sunni militias; Shia militias, some associated with political
  parties

Ireland
  Families Acting for Innocent Relatives or FAIR [Brian
  McCONNELL] (seek compensation for victims of violence); Families
  Against Intimidation and Terror or FAIT (oppose terrorism);
  Gaeltacht Civil Rights Campaign (Coiste Cearta Sibhialta na Gaeilge)
  or CCSG (encourages the use of the Irish language and campaigns for
  greater civil rights in Irish speaking areas); Irish Republican Army
  or IRA (terrorist group); Keep Ireland Open (environmental group);
  Midland Railway Action Group or MRAG [Willie ALLEN] (transportation
  promoters); Rail Users Ireland (formerly the Platform 11 -
  transportation promoters); 32 Country Sovereignty Movement or 32CSM
  (supports a fully sovereign Ireland); Ulster Defence Association or
  UDA (terrorist group)

Isle of Man
  Alliance for Progressive Government or APG (a government
  watchdog); Mec Vannin (political party advocating a sovereign state
  and environment policies); note - has only had one member elected to
  the Tynwald

Israel
  B'Tselem [Jessica MONTELL, Executive Director] monitors human
  rights abuses; Peace Now [Yariv OPPENHEIMER, Secretary General]
  supports territorial concessions in the West Bank and Gaza Strip;
  YESHA Council of Settlements [Danny DAYAN, Chairman] promotes
  settler interests and opposes territorial compromise

Italy
  manufacturers and merchants associations - Confcommercio;
  Confindustria; organized farm groups - Confcoltivatori;
  Confagricoltura; Roman Catholic Church; three major trade union
  confederations - Confederazione Generale Italiana del Lavoro or CGIL
  [Guglielmo EPIFANI] which is left wing; Confederazione Italiana dei
  Sindacati Lavoratori or CISL [Raffaele BONANNO], which is Roman
  Catholic centrist; Unione Italiana del Lavoro or UIL [Luigi
  ANGELETTI] which is lay centrist)

Jamaica
  New Beginnings Movement or NBM; Rastafarians (black
  religious/racial cultists, pan-Africanists)

Japan
  other: business groups; trade unions

Jersey
  Institute of Directors, Jersey branch (provides business
  support); Jersey Hospitality Association [Robert JONES] (trade
  association); Jersey Rights Association [David ROTHERHAM] (human
  rights); La Societe Jersiaise (education and conservation group);
  Progress Jersey [Darius J. PEARCE, Daren O'TOOLE, Gino RISOLI]
  (human rights); Royal Jersey Agriculture and Horticultural Society
  or RJA&HS (development and management of the Jersey breed of
  cattle); Save Jersey's Heritage (protects heritage through building
  preservation)

Jordan
  Anti-Normalization Committee [Ali Abu SUKKAR, president vice
  chairman]; Jordan Bar Association [Hussein Mujalli, chairman];
  Jordanian Press Association [Sayf al-SHARIF, president]; Muslim
  Brotherhood [Salem AL-FALAHAT, controller general]

Kazakhstan
  Adil-Soz [Tamara KALEYEVA]; Almaty Helsinki Group [Ninel
  FOKINA]; Confederation of Free Trade Unions [Sergei BELKIN]; For a
  Just Kazakhstan [Bolat ABILOV]; For Fair Elections [Yevgeniy
  ZHOVTIS, Sabit ZHUSUPOV, Sergey DUVANOV, Ibrash NUSUPBAYEV];
  Kazakhstan International Bureau on Human Rights [Yevgeniy ZHOVTIS,
  executive director]; Pan-National Social Democratic Party of
  Kazakhstan [Zharmakhan TUYAKBAI]; Pensioners Movement or Pokoleniye
  [Irina SAVOSTINA, chairwoman]; Republican Network of International
  Monitors [Dos KUSHIM]; Transparency International [Sergei ZLOTNIKOV]

Kenya
  Council of Islamic Preachers of Kenya or CIPK [Sheikh Idris
  MOHAMMED]; Kenya Human Rights Commission [L. Muthoni WANYEKI];
  Muslim Human Rights Forum [Ali-Amin KIMATHI]; National Convention
  Executive Council or NCEC, a proreform coalition of political
  parties and nongovernment organizations [Ndung'u WAINANA];
  Protestant National Council of Churches of Kenya or NCCK [Canon
  Peter Karanja MWANGI]; Roman Catholic and other Christian churches;
  Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims or SUPKEM [Shaykh Abdul Gafur
  al-BUSAIDY]
  other: labor unions

Kiribati
  NA

Korea, North
  none

Korea, South
  Federation of Korean Industries; Federation of Korean
  Trade Unions; Korean Confederation of Trade Unions; Korean National
  Council of Churches; Korean Traders Association; Korean Veterans'
  Association; National Council of Labor Unions; National Democratic
  Alliance of Korea; National Federation of Farmers' Associations;
  National Federation of Student Associations

Kosovo
  Council for the Defense of Human Rights and Freedom (human
  rights); Humanitarian Law Centre (human rights); Movement for
  Self-Determination; Serb National Council (SNV)

Kuwait
  other: Islamists; merchants; political groups; secular
  liberals and pro-governmental deputies; Shia activists; tribal groups

Kyrgyzstan
  Adilet Legal Clinic [Cholpon JAKUPOVA]; Coalition for
  Democracy and Civil Society [Dinara OSHURAKHUNOVA]; Interbilim
  [Asiya SASYKBAYEVA]

Laos
  NA

Latvia
  Headquarters for the Protection of Russian Schools (SHTAB)
  [Aleksandr KAZAKOV]

Lebanon
  Hizballah military wing
  other: Palestinian militias; Maronite Christians; Sunnis and their
  militias; Shi'as and their militias

Lesotho
  Media Institute of Southern Africa, Lesotho chapter [Thabang
  MATJAMA] (pushes for media freedom)

Liberia
  other: demobilized former military officers

Libya
  other: Arab nationalist movements; anti-QADHAFI Libyan exile
  Movement; Islamic elements

Liechtenstein
  NA

Lithuania
  Europe House (promotes the EU); European Movement
  (promotes the EU); Lithuanian Future Forum (promotes the EU)

Luxembourg
  ABBL (bankers' association); ALEBA (financial sector
  trade union); Centrale Paysanne (federation of agricultural
  producers); CEP (professional sector chamber); CGFP (trade union
  representing civil service); Chambre de Commerce (Chamber of
  Commerce); Chambre des Metiers (Chamber of Artisans); FEDIL
  (federation of industrialists); Greenpeace (environment protection);
  LCGP (center-right trade union); Mouvement Ecologique (protection of
  ecology); OGBL (center-left trade union)

Macau
  Macau Society of Tourism and Entertainment or STDM [Stanley
  HO]; Roman Catholic Church; Union for Democracy Development [Antonio
  NG Kuok-cheong]

Macedonia
  Federation of Free Trade Unions [Svetlana PETROVIC];
  Federation of Trade Unions [Vanco MURATOVSKI]; Trade Union of
  Education, Science and Culture [Dojcin CVETANOSKI]; World Macedonian
  Congress [Todor PETROV]

Madagascar
  Committee for the Defense of Truth and Justice or KMMR;
  Committee for National Reconciliation or CRN [Albert Zafy]; National
  Council of Christian Churches or FFKM

Malawi
  Agri-Ecology Media (agriculture and environmental group);
  Malawi Law Society (human rights); Malawi Movement for the
  Restoration of Democracy or MMRD (acts to restore and maintain
  democracy); National Democratic Alliance or NDA (acts to restore
  democracy; Public Affairs Committee or PAC (promotes democracy,
  development, peace and unity)

Malaysia
  Bersih (electoral reform); Sharia High Court
  other: religious groups; women's groups; youth groups

Maldives
  other: various unregistered political parties

Mali
  other: the army; Islamic authorities; rebels in the northern
  region; state-run cotton company CMDT; tuaregs

Malta
  Alleanza Liberal-Demokratika Maltra ro ALDM (against illegal
  immigration); Alleanza Nazzionali Repubblikana or ANR (encourages
  tourism); Alternattiva Demokratika (campaign to reform rent law, and
  other campaigns); Azzjoni Nazzjonali or AN (freedom to participate
  in democratic government); Ghazdatal-Konsumaturi (consumer rights);
  Nazi Watch Malta (exposing Nazis)
  other: environmentalists

Marshall Islands
  NA

Mauritania
  General Confederation of Mauritanian Workers or CGTM
  [Abdallahi Ould MOHAMED, secretary general]; Independent
  Confederation of Mauritanian Workers or CLTM [Samory Ould BEYE];
  Mauritanian Workers Union or UTM [Mohamed Ely Ould BRAHIM, secretary
  general]
  other: Arab nationalists; Ba'thists; Islamists

Mauritius
  other: various labor unions

Mayotte
  NA

Mexico
  Broad Progressive Front or FAP; Businessmen's Coordinating
  Council or CCE; Confederation of Employers of the Mexican Republic
  or COPARMEX; Confederation of Industrial Chambers or CONCAMIN;
  Confederation of Mexican Workers or CTM; Confederation of National
  Chambers of Commerce or CONCANACO; Coordinator for Foreign Trade
  Business Organizations or COECE; Federation of Unions Providing
  Goods and Services or FESEBES; National Chamber of Transformation
  Industries or CANACINTRA; National Peasant Confederation or CNC;
  National Small Business Chamber or CANACOPE; National Syndicate of
  Education Workers or SNTE; National Union of Workers or UNT; Popular
  Assembly of the People of Oaxaca or APPO; Roman Catholic Church

Micronesia, Federated States of
  NA

Moldova
  NA

Monaco
  NA

Mongolia
  other: human rights groups; women's groups

Montenegro
  Sandzak People's Movement [Cemal SULFEJIC]

Montserrat
  NA

Morocco
  Democratic Confederation of Labor or CDT [Noubir AMAOUI];
  General Union of Moroccan Workers or UGTM [Abderrazzak AFILAL];
  Moroccan Employers Association or CGEM [Hassan CHAMI]; National
  Labor Union of Morocco or UNMT [Abdelslam MAATI]; Union of Moroccan
  Workers or UMT [Mahjoub BENSEDDIK]

Mozambique
  Etica [Abdul CARIMO Issa, chairman]; Human Rights and
  Development (Direitos Humanos e Desenvolvimento) or DHD [Artemisia
  FRANCO, secretary general]; Institute for Peace and Democracy
  (Instituto para Paz e Democracia) or IPADE [Raul DOMINGOS,
  president]; Movement for Peace and Citizenship (Movimento para Paz e
  Cidadania); Mozambican League of Human Rights (Liga Mocambicana dos
  Direitos Humanos) or LDH [Alice MABOTE, president]

Namibia
  Earthlife Namibia [Berthchen KOHRS] (environmentalist
  group); National Society for Human Rights or NSHR; The World
  Information Services of Energy or WISE (group against nuclear power)

Nauru
  Woman Information and News Agency (women's issues)

Nepal
  other: several small armed Madhesi groups along the southern
  border with India; a variety of groups advocating regional autonomy
  for individual ethnic groups

Netherlands
  Christian Trade Union Federation or CNV [Rene PAAS];
  Confederation of Netherlands Industry and Employers or VNO-NCW
  [Bernard WIENTJES]; Federation for Small and Medium-sized businesses
  or MKB [Loek HERMANS]; Netherlands Trade Union Federation or FNV
  [Agnes JONGERIUS]; Social Economic Council or SER [Alexander RINNOOY
  Kan]; Trade Union Federation of Middle and High Personnel or MHP [Ad
  VERHOEVEN]

Netherlands Antilles
  Employers Association (VBC); Unions (AVBO)

New Caledonia
  NA

New Zealand
  Women's Electoral Lobby or WEL
  other: apartheid groups; civil rights groups; farmers groups; Maori;
  nuclear weapons groups; women's rights groups

Nicaragua
  National Workers Front or FNT (a Sandinista umbrella group
  of eight labor unions including: Farm Workers Association or ATC,
  Health Workers Federation or FETASALUD, Heroes and Martyrs
  Confederation of Professional Associations or CONAPRO, National
  Association of Educators of Nicaragua or ANDEN, National Union of
  Employees or UNE, National Union of Farmers and Ranchers or UNAG,
  Sandinista Workers Central or CST, and Union of Journalists of
  Nicaragua or UPN); Permanent Congress of Workers or CPT (an umbrella
  group of four non-Sandinista labor unions including: Autonomous
  Nicaraguan Workers Central or CTN-A, Confederation of Labor
  Unification or CUS, Independent General Confederation of Labor or
  CGT-I, and Labor Action and Unity Central or CAUS); Nicaraguan
  Workers' Central or CTN (an independent labor union); Superior
  Council of Private Enterprise or COSEP (a confederation of business
  groups)

Niger
  The Nigerien Movement for Justice or MNJ, a predominantly
  Tuareg rebel group

Nigeria
  Academic Staff Union for Universities or ASUU; Campaign for
  Democracy or CD; Civil Liberties Organization or CLO; Committee for
  the Defense of Human Rights or CDHR; Constitutional Right Project or
  CRP; Human Right Africa; National Association of Democratic Lawyers
  or NADL; National Association of Nigerian Students or NANS; Nigerian
  Bar Association or NBA; Nigerian Labor Congress or NLC; Nigerian
  Medical Association or NMA; the Press; Universal Defenders of
  Democracy or UDD

Niue
  NA

Norfolk Island
  none

Northern Mariana Islands
  NA

Norway
  Norwegian Aid Committee or NORWAC; Norwegian Association of
  the Disabled; Pure Salmon Campaign; The Consumer Council (consumer
  advocacy group)
  other: environmental groups; media; reform movements

Oman
  none

Pakistan
  other: military (most important political force); ulema
  (clergy); landowners; industrialists; small merchants

Palau
  NA

Panama
  Chamber of Commerce; National Civic Crusade; National Council
  of Organized Workers or CONATO; National Council of Private
  Enterprise or CONEP; National Union of Construction and Similar
  Workers (SUNTRACS); Panamanian Association of Business Executives or
  APEDE; Panamanian Industrialists Society or SIP; Workers
  Confederation of the Republic of Panama or CTRP

Papua New Guinea
  Ahora [Andrew MAMOKO] (represents local tribes);
  Centre for Environment Law and Community Rights or Celcor [Damien
  ASE]; Community Coalition Against Corruption

Paraguay
  Ahorristas Estafados or AE; National Coordinating Board of
  Campesino Organizations or MCNOC [Luis AGUAYO]; National Federation
  of Campesinos or FNC [Odilon ESPINOLA]; National Workers Central or
  CNT [Secretary General Juan TORRALES]; Paraguayan Workers
  Confederation or CPT; Roman Catholic Church; Unitary Workers Central
  or CUT [Jorge Guzman ALVARENGA Malgarejo]

Peru
  Shining Path [Abimael GUZMAN Reynoso (imprisoned), Gabriel
  MACARIO (top leader at-large)] (leftist guerrilla group); Tupac
  Amaru Revolutionary Movement or MRTA [Victor POLAY (imprisoned),
  Hugo AVALLENEDA Valdez (top leader at-large)] (leftist guerrilla
  group)

Philippines
  AKBAYAN [Etta ROSALES, Mario AGUJA, and Risa
  HONTIVEROS-BARAQUIEL]; ALAGAD [Rodante MARROLITA]; ALIF [Acmad
  TOMAWIS]; An Waray [Horencio NOEL]; Anak Mindanao [Mujiv HATAMIN];
  ANAKPAWIS [Crispin BELTRAN and Rafael MARIANO]; Association of
  Philippine Electric Cooperatives (APEC) [Sunny Rose MADAMBA, Ernesto
  PABLO, and Edgar VALDEZ]; AVE [Eulogio MAGSAYSAY]; Bayan Muna [Satur
  OCAMPO, Joel VIRADOR, and Teodoro CASINO, Jr.]; BUHAY [Rene VELARDE
  and Hans Christian SENERES]; BUTIL [Benjamin CRUZ]; CIBAC [Emmanuel
  Joel VILLANUEVA]; COOP-NATCO [Guillermo CUA]; GABRIELA [Liza MAZA];
  Partido Ng Manggagawa [Renato MAGTUBO]; Veterans Federation of the
  Philippines [Ernesto GIDAYA]

Pitcairn Islands
  none

Poland
  All Poland Trade Union Alliance or OPZZ (trade union) [Jan
  GUZ]; Roman Catholic Church [Cardinal Stanislaw DZIWISZ, Archbishop
  Jozef MICHALIK]; Solidarity Trade Union [Janusz SNIADEK]

Portugal
  the media

Puerto Rico
  Boricua Popular Army or EPB (a revolutionary group also
  known as Los Macheteros); note - the following radical groups are
  considered dormant by Federal law enforcement: Armed Forces for
  National Liberation or FALN, Armed Forces of Popular Resistance,
  Volunteers of the Puerto Rican Revolution

Qatar
  none

Romania
  other: various human rights and professional associations

Russia
  Levada Center (conducts polls); Memorial (human rights group;
  Movement Against Illegal Migration; Pamjat (preservation of
  historical monuments and recording of history); Russian Orthodox
  Church; Russian-Chechen Friendship Society
  other: ecology groups; human rights groups; nationalist pragmatists
  (no foreign influence over Central Eurasia); neo-Eurasianists
  (against Western influence for the area); religious groups;
  westernizers (lean towards the West)

Rwanda
  IBUKA (association of genocide survivors)

Saint Barthelemy
  The Marine Reserve (protection of fish); Rotary Club

Saint Helena
  other: private sector; unions

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  NA

Saint Lucia
  NA

Saint Martin
  NA

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  NA

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  NA

Samoa
  NA

San Marino
  NA

Sao Tome and Principe
  Association of Sao Tome and Principe NGOs or
  FONG
  other: the media

Saudi Arabia
  Ansar Al Marah (supports women's rights)
  other: gas companies; religious groups

Senegal
  other: labor; students; Sufi brotherhoods, including the
  Mourides and Tidjanes; teachers

Serbia
  NA

Seychelles
  Roman Catholic Church
  other: trade unions

Sierra Leone
  other: student unions; trade unions

Singapore
  UNFEM [Saleeman ISMAIL]
  other: investment companies; news organizations

Slovakia
  Association of Towns and Villages or ZMOS; Confederation of
  Trade Unions or KOZ; Entrepreneurs Association of Slovakia or ZPS;
  Federation of Employers' Associations of the Slovak Republic;
  National Union of Employers or RUZ; Slovak Chamber of Commerce and
  Industry or SOPK; The Business Alliance of Slovakia or PAS

Slovenia
  Democratic Party of Slovenian Pensioners or DeSUS
  (protecting the rights of the older generation); Slovenian Roma
  Association [Jozek Horvat MUC]
  other: Catholic Church

Solomon Islands
  Isatabu Freedom Movement (IFM); Malaita Eagle Force
  (MEF); note - these rival armed ethnic factions crippled the Solomon
  Islands in a wave of violence from 1999 to 2003

Somalia
  other: numerous clan and sub-clan factions exist both in
  support and in opposition to the transitional government

South Africa
  Congress of South African Trade Unions or COSATU
  [Zwelinzima VAVI, general secretary]; South African Communist Party
  or SACP [Blade NZIMANDE, general secretary]; South African National
  Civics Organization or SANCO [Mlungisi HLONGWANE, national president]
  note: note - COSATU and SACP are in a formal alliance with the ANC

Spain
  Association for Victims of Terrorism or AVT (grassroots
  organization devoted primarily to opposing ETA terrorist attacks and
  supporting its victims); Basta Ya (Spanish for "Enough is Enough";
  grassroots organization devoted primarily to opposing ETA terrorist
  attacks and supporting its victims); Nunca Mais (Galician for "Never
  Again"; formed in response to the oil Tanker Prestige oil spill);
  Socialist General Union of Workers or UGT and the smaller
  independent Workers Syndical Union or USO; Trade Union Confederation
  of Workers' Commissions or CC.OO.
  other: business and landowning interests; Catholic Church; free
  labor unions (authorized in April 1977); university students

Sri Lanka
  Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam or LTTE [Velupillai
  PRABHAKARAN](insurgent group fighting for a separate state); Tamil
  Makkal Viduthalai Pulikal (TMVP) or Karuna Faction [Vinayagamurthi
  MURALITHARAN] (paramilitary breakaway from LTTE and fighting LTTE)
  other: Buddhist clergy; labor unions; radical chauvinist Sinhalese
  groups such as the National Movement Against Terrorism; Sinhalese
  Buddhist lay groups

Sudan
  Umma Party [Sadiq al-MAHDI]; Popular Congress Party or PCP
  [Hassan al-TURABI]

Suriname
  Association of Indigenous Village Chiefs [Ricardo PANE];
  Association of Saramaccan Authorities or Maroon [Head Captain WASE];
  Women's Parliament Forum or PVF [Iris GILLIAD]

Svalbard
  NA

Swaziland
  Swaziland Federation of Trade Unions; Swaziland and
  Solidarity Network or SSN

Sweden
  Children's Rights in Society; Central Association of
  Salarited Emplyees or TCO; Swedish Federation of Trade Unions or LO
  other: media

Switzerland
  NA

Syria
  Damascus Declaration National Council [Riyad SEIF, secretary
  general] (a broad alliance of opposition groups and individuals
  including: Committee for Revival of Civil Society [Michel KILO,
  Riyad SEIF], Communist Action Party [Fateh JAMOUS], Kurdish
  Democratic Alliance, Kurdish Democratic Front, Liberal Nationalists'
  Movement, National Democratic Front, National Democratic Rally, and
  Syrian Human Rights Society or HRAS [Fawed FAWUZ]); National
  Salvation Front (alliance between former Vice President Abd al-Halim
  KHADDAM, the SMB, and other small opposition groups); Syrian Muslim
  Brotherhood or SMB [Sadr al-Din al-BAYANUNI] (operates in exile in
  London; endorsed the Damascus Declaration, but is not an official
  member)

Taiwan
  Organization for Taiwan Nation Building; World United
  Formosans for Independence
  other: environmental groups; independence movement; various business
  groups
  note: debate on Taiwan independence has become acceptable within the
  mainstream of domestic politics on Taiwan; political liberalization
  and the increased representation of opposition parties in Taiwan's
  legislature have opened public debate on the island's national
  identity; a broad popular consensus has developed that the island
  currently enjoys sovereign independence and - whatever the ultimate
  outcome regarding reunification or independence - that Taiwan's
  people must have the deciding voice; public opinion polls
  consistently show a substantial majority of Taiwan people supports
  maintaining Taiwan's status quo for the foreseeable future;
  advocates of Taiwan independence oppose the stand that the island
  will eventually unify with mainland China; goals of the Taiwan
  independence movement include establishing a sovereign nation on
  Taiwan and entering the UN

Tajikistan
  Agrarian Party [Hikmatullo NASREDDINOV] (unregistered
  political party); Democratic Party or DPT [Masud SOBIROV]
  (splintered from Iskanderov's DPT); Progressive Party [Sulton
  QUVVATOV]; Socialist Party or SPT [Abdualim GHAFFOROV] (splintered
  from Narziyev's SPT); Unity Party [Hikmatullo SAIDOV]
  other: splinter parties recognized by the government but not by the
  base of the party; unregistered political parties

Tanzania
  Economic and Social Research Foundation or ESRF; Free
  Zanzibar; Tanzania Media Women's Association or TAMWA

Thailand
  People's Alliance for Democracy; Campaign for Democracy
  [Pibob THONGCHAI]

Timor-Leste
  NA

Togo
  NA

Tokelau
  none

Tonga
  Human Rights and Democracy Movement Tonga or HRDMT [Rev.
  Simote VEA, chairman]; Public Servant's Association [Finau TUTONE]

Trinidad and Tobago
  Jamaat-al Muslimeen [Yasin BAKR]

Tunisia
  18 October Group [collective leadership]; Tunisian League
  for Human Rights or LTDH [Mokhtar TRIFI]

Turkey
  Confederation of Public Sector Unions or KESK [Ismail Hakki
  TOMBUL]; Confederation of Revolutionary Workers Unions or DISK
  [Suleyman CELEBI]; Independent Industrialists' and Businessmen's
  Association or MUSIAD [Omer BOLAT]; Moral Rights Workers Union or
  Hak-Is [Salim USLU]; Turkish Confederation of Employers' Unions or
  TISK [Tugurl KUDATGOBILIK]; Turkish Confederation of Labor or
  Turk-Is [Salih KILIC]; Turkish Confederation of Tradesmen and
  Craftsmen or TESK [Dervis GUNDAY]; Turkish Industrialists' and
  Businessmen's Association or TUSIAD [Omer SABANCI]; Turkish Union of
  Chambers of Commerce and Commodity Exchanges or TOBB [M. Rifat
  HISARCIKLIOGLU]

Turkmenistan
  NA

Turks and Caicos Islands
  NA

Tuvalu
  none

Uganda
  Lord's Resistence Group or LRA [Joseph KONY]; Young
  Parliamentary Association [Henry BANYENZAKI]; Parliamentary Advocacy
  Forum or PAFO; National Association of Women Organizations in Uganda
  or NAWOU [Florence NEKYON]; The Ugandan Coalition for Political
  Accountability to Wormen or COPAW

Ukraine
  Committee of Voters of Ukraine [Ihor POPOV]; Peoples'
  Self-Defense [Yuriy LUTSENKO]

United Arab Emirates
  NA

United Kingdom
  Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament; Confederation of
  British Industry; National Farmers' Union; Trades Union Congress

United States
  environmentalists; business groups; labor unions;
  churches; ethnic groups; political action committees or PAC; health
  groups; education groups; cuvuc griyos; youth groups; transportation
  groups; agricultural groups; veterans groups; women's groups; reform
  lobbies

Uruguay
  Architect's Society of Uruguay (professional organization);
  Chamber of Uruguayan Industries (manufacturer's association);
  Chemist and Pharmaceutical Association (professional organization);
  PIT/CNT (powerful federation of Uruguayan Unions - umbrella labor
  organization); Rural Association of Uruguay (rancher's association);
  Uruguayan Construction League; Uruguayan Network of Political Women
  other: Catholic Church; students

Uzbekistan
  Agrarian and Entrepreneurs' Party [Marat ZAHIDOV]; Birlik
  (Unity) Movement [Abdurakhim POLAT, chairman]; Committee for the
  Protection of Human Rights [Marat ZAHIDOV]; Erk (Freedom) Democratic
  Party [Muhammad SOLIH, chairman] (was banned 9 December 1992);
  Ezgulik Human Rights Society [Vasila INOYATOVA]; Free Farmers' Party
  or Ozod Dehqonlar [Nigora KHIDOYATOVA]; Human Rights Society of
  Uzbekistan [Talib YAKUBOV, chairman]; Independent Human Rights
  Organization of Uzbekistan [Mikhail ARDZINOV, chairman]; Mazlum;
  Sunshine Coalition [Sanjar UMAROV, chairman]

Vanuatu
  NA

Venezuela
  FEDECAMARAS, a conservative business group; VECINOS
  groups; Venezuelan Confederation of Workers or CTV (labor
  organization dominated by the Democratic Action)

Vietnam
  8406 Bloc; Democratic Party of Vietnam or DPV; People's
  Democratic Party Vietnam or PDP-VN; Alliance for Democracy
  note: these groups advocate democracy but are not recognized by the
  government

Virgin Islands
  NA

Wallis and Futuna
  NA

Western Sahara
  none

Yemen
  Muslim Brotherhood; Women National Committee
  other: conservative tribal groups

Zambia
  NA

Zimbabwe
  Crisis in Zimbabwe Coalition [Xolani ZITHA]; National
  Constitutional Assembly or NCA [Lovemore MADHUKU]; Women of Zimbabwe
  Arise or WOZA [Jenny WILLIAMS]; Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Unions or
  ZCTU [Wellington CHIBEBE]

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2116  Economy - overview


Afghanistan
  Afghanistan's economy is recovering from decades of
  conflict. The economy has improved significantly since the fall of
  the Taliban regime in 2001 largely because of the infusion of
  international assistance, the recovery of the agricultural sector,
  and service sector growth. Real GDP growth exceeded 7% in 2007.
  Despite the progress of the past few years, Afghanistan is extremely
  poor, landlocked, and highly dependent on foreign aid, agriculture,
  and trade with neighboring countries. Much of the population
  continues to suffer from shortages of housing, clean water,
  electricity, medical care, and jobs. Criminality, insecurity, and
  the Afghan Government's inability to extend rule of law to all parts
  of the country pose challenges to future economic growth. It will
  probably take the remainder of the decade and continuing donor aid
  and attention to significantly raise Afghanistan's living standards
  from its current level, among the lowest in the world. International
  pledges made by more than 60 countries and international financial
  institutions at the Berlin Donors Conference for Afghan
  reconstruction in March 2004 reached $8.9 billion for 2004-09. While
  the international community remains committed to Afghanistan's
  development, pledging over $24 billion at three donors' conferences
  since 2002, Kabul will need to overcome a number of challenges.
  Expanding poppy cultivation and a growing opium trade generate
  roughly $4 billion in illicit economic activity and looms as one of
  Kabul's most serious policy concerns. Other long-term challenges
  include: budget sustainability, job creation, corruption, government
  capacity, and rebuilding war torn infrastructure.

Akrotiri
  Economic activity is limited to providing services to the
  military and their families located in Akrotiri. All food and
  manufactured goods must be imported.

Albania
  Lagging behind its Balkan neighbors, Albania is making the
  difficult transition to a more modern open-market economy. The
  government has taken measures to curb violent crime, and recently
  adopted a fiscal reform package aimed at reducing the large gray
  economy and attracting foreign investment. The economy is bolstered
  by annual remittances from abroad of $600-$800 million, mostly from
  Albanians residing in Greece and Italy; this helps offset the
  towering trade deficit. Agriculture, which accounts for more than
  one-fifth of GDP, is held back because of lack of modern equipment,
  unclear property rights, and the prevalence of small, inefficient
  plots of land. Energy shortages and antiquated and inadequate
  infrastructure contribute to Albania's poor business environment,
  which make it difficult to attract and sustain foreign investment.
  The completion of a new thermal power plant near Vlore and improved
  transmission line between Albania and Montenegro will help relieve
  the energy shortages. Also, the government is moving slowly to
  improve the poor national road and rail network, a long-standing
  barrier to sustained economic growth. On the positive side,
  macroeconomic growth was strong in 2003-07 and inflation is low and
  stable.

Algeria
  The hydrocarbons sector is the backbone of the economy,
  accounting for roughly 60% of budget revenues, 30% of GDP, and over
  95% of export earnings. Algeria has the eighth-largest reserves of
  natural gas in the world and is the fourth-largest gas exporter; it
  ranks 14th in oil reserves. Sustained high oil prices in recent
  years have helped improve Algeria's financial and macroeconomic
  indicators. Algeria is running substantial trade surpluses and
  building up record foreign exchange reserves. Algeria has decreased
  its external debt to less than 10% of GDP after repaying its Paris
  Club and London Club debt in 2006. Real GDP has risen due to higher
  oil output and increased government spending. The government's
  continued efforts to diversify the economy by attracting foreign and
  domestic investment outside the energy sector, however, has had
  little success in reducing high unemployment and improving living
  standards. Structural reform within the economy, such as development
  of the banking sector and the construction of infrastructure, moves
  ahead slowly hampered by corruption and bureaucratic resistance.

American Samoa
  American Samoa has a traditional Polynesian economy
  in which more than 90% of the land is communally owned. Economic
  activity is strongly linked to the US with which American Samoa
  conducts most of its commerce. Tuna fishing and tuna processing
  plants are the backbone of the private sector, with canned tuna the
  primary export. Transfers from the US Government add substantially
  to American Samoa's economic well being. Attempts by the government
  to develop a larger and broader economy are restrained by Samoa's
  remote location, its limited transportation, and its devastating
  hurricanes. Tourism is a promising developing sector.
  note: as a territory of the US, American Samoa does not treat the US
  as an external trade partner

Andorra
  Tourism, the mainstay of Andorra's tiny, well-to-do economy,
  accounts for more than 80% of GDP. An estimated 11.6 million
  tourists visit annually, attracted by Andorra's duty-free status and
  by its summer and winter resorts. Andorra's comparative advantage
  has recently eroded as the economies of neighboring France and Spain
  have been opened up, providing broader availability of goods and
  lower tariffs. The banking sector, with its partial "tax haven"
  status, also contributes substantially to the economy. Agricultural
  production is limited - only 2% of the land is arable - and most
  food has to be imported. The principal livestock activity is sheep
  raising. Manufacturing output consists mainly of cigarettes, cigars,
  and furniture. Andorra is a member of the EU Customs Union and is
  treated as an EU member for trade in manufactured goods (no tariffs)
  and as a non-EU member for agricultural products.

Angola
  Angola's high growth rate is driven by its oil sector, with
  record oil prices and rising petroleum production. Oil production
  and its supporting activities contribute about 85% of GDP. Increased
  oil production supported growth averaging more than 15% per year
  from 2004 to 2007. A postwar reconstruction boom and resettlement of
  displaced persons has led to high rates of growth in construction
  and agriculture as well. Much of the country's infrastructure is
  still damaged or undeveloped from the 27-year-long civil war.
  Remnants of the conflict such as widespread land mines still mar the
  countryside even though an apparently durable peace was established
  after the death of rebel leader Jonas SAVIMBI in February 2002.
  Subsistence agriculture provides the main livelihood for most of the
  people, but half of the country's food must still be imported. In
  2005, the government started using a $2 billion line of credit,
  since increased to $7 billion, from China to rebuild Angola's public
  infrastructure, and several large-scale projects were completed in
  2006. Angola also has large credit lines from Brazil, Portugal,
  Germany, Spain, and the EU. The central bank in 2003 implemented an
  exchange rate stabilization program using foreign exchange reserves
  to buy kwanzas out of circulation. This policy became more
  sustainable in 2005 because of strong oil export earnings; it has
  significantly reduced inflation. Although consumer inflation
  declined from 325% in 2000 to under 13% in 2007, the stabilization
  policy has put pressure on international net liquidity. Angola
  became a member of OPEC in late 2006 and in late 2007 was assigned a
  production quota of 1.9 million barrels a day, somewhat less than
  the 2-2.5 million bbl Angola's government had wanted. To fully take
  advantage of its rich national resources - gold, diamonds, extensive
  forests, Atlantic fisheries, and large oil deposits - Angola will
  need to implement government reforms, increase transparency, and
  reduce corruption. The government has rejected a formal IMF
  monitored program, although it continues Article IV consultations
  and ad hoc cooperation. Corruption, especially in the extractive
  sectors, and the negative effects of large inflows of foreign
  exchange, are major challenges facing Angola.

Anguilla
  Anguilla has few natural resources, and the economy depends
  heavily on luxury tourism, offshore banking, lobster fishing, and
  remittances from emigrants. Increased activity in the tourism
  industry has spurred the growth of the construction sector,
  contributing to economic growth. Anguillan officials have put
  substantial effort into developing the offshore financial sector,
  which is small, but growing. In the medium term, prospects for the
  economy will depend largely on the tourism sector and, therefore, on
  revived income growth in the industrialized nations as well as on
  favorable weather conditions.

Antarctica
  Fishing off the coast and tourism, both based abroad,
  account for Antarctica's limited economic activity. Antarctic
  fisheries in 2005-06 (1 July-30 June) reported landing 128,081
  metric tons (estimated fishing from the area covered by the
  Convention on the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources
  (CCAMLR), which extends slightly beyond the Antarctic Treaty area).
  Unregulated fishing, particularly of Patagonian toothfish
  (Dissostichus eleginoides), is a serious problem. The CCAMLR
  determines the recommended catch limits for marine species. A total
  of 36,460 tourists visited the Antarctic Treaty area in the 2006-07
  Antarctic summer, up from the 30,877 visitors the previous year
  (estimates provided to the Antarctic Treaty by the International
  Association of Antarctica Tour Operators (IAATO); this does not
  include passengers on overflights). Nearly all of them were
  passengers on commercial (nongovernmental) ships and several yachts
  that make trips during the summer. Most tourist trips last
  approximately two weeks.

Antigua and Barbuda
  Antigua has a relatively high GDP per capita in
  comparison to most other Caribbean nations. It has experienced solid
  growth since 2003, driven by a construction boom in hotels and
  housing that which should wind down in 2008. Tourism continues to
  dominate the economy, accounting for more than half of GDP. The
  dual-island nation's agricultural production is focused on the
  domestic market and constrained by a limited water supply and a
  labor shortage stemming from the lure of higher wages in tourism and
  construction. Manufacturing comprises enclave-type assembly for
  export with major products being bedding, handicrafts, and
  electronic components. Prospects for economic growth in the medium
  term will continue to depend on income growth in the industrialized
  world, especially in the US, which accounts for slightly more than
  one-third of tourist arrivals. Since taking office in 2004, the
  SPENCER government has adopted an ambitious fiscal reform program,
  but will continue to be saddled by its debt burden with a
  debt-to-GDP ratio exceeding 100%.

Arctic Ocean
  Economic activity is limited to the exploitation of
  natural resources, including petroleum, natural gas, fish, and seals.

Argentina
  Argentina benefits from rich natural resources, a highly
  literate population, an export-oriented agricultural sector, and a
  diversified industrial base. Although one of the world's wealthiest
  countries 100 years ago, Argentina suffered during most of the 20th
  century from recurring economic crises, persistent fiscal and
  current account deficits, high inflation, mounting external debt,
  and capital flight. A severe depression, growing public and external
  indebtedness, and a bank run culminated in 2001 in the most serious
  economic, social, and political crisis in the country's turbulent
  history. Interim President Adolfo RODRIGUEZ SAA declared a default -
  the largest in history - on the government's foreign debt in
  December of that year, and abruptly resigned only a few days after
  taking office. His successor, Eduardo DUHALDE, announced an end to
  the peso's decade-long 1-to-1 peg to the US dollar in early 2002.
  The economy bottomed out that year, with real GDP 18% smaller than
  in 1998 and almost 60% of Argentines under the poverty line. Real
  GDP rebounded to grow by an average 9% annually over the subsequent
  five years, taking advantage of previously idled industrial capacity
  and labor, an audacious debt restructuring and reduced debt burden,
  excellent international financial conditions, and expansionary
  monetary and fiscal policies. Inflation, however, reached
  double-digit levels in 2006 and the government of President Nestor
  KIRCHNER responded with "voluntary" price agreements with
  businesses, as well as export taxes and restraints. Multi-year price
  freezes on electricity and natural gas rates for residential users
  stoked consumption and kept private investment away, leading to
  restrictions on industrial use and blackouts in 2007.

Armenia
  Since the breakup of the Soviet Union in 1991, Armenia has
  made progress in implementing many economic reforms including
  privatization, price reforms, and prudent fiscal policies. The
  conflict with Azerbaijan over the ethnic Armenian-dominated region
  of Nagorno-Karabakh contributed to a severe economic decline in the
  early 1990s. By 1994, however, the Armenian Government launched an
  ambitious IMF-sponsored economic liberalization program that
  resulted in positive growth rates. Economic growth has averaged over
  13% in recent years. Armenia has managed to reduce poverty, slash
  inflation, stabilize its currency, and privatize most small- and
  medium-sized enterprises. Under the old Soviet central planning
  system, Armenia developed a modern industrial sector, supplying
  machine tools, textiles, and other manufactured goods to sister
  republics, in exchange for raw materials and energy. Armenia has
  since switched to small-scale agriculture and away from the large
  agroindustrial complexes of the Soviet era. Nuclear power plants
  built at Metsamor in the 1970s were closed following the 1988 Spitak
  Earthquake, though they sustained no damage. One of the two reactors
  was re-opened in 1995, but the Armenian government is under
  international pressure to close it due to concerns that the Soviet
  era design lacks important safeguards. Metsamor provides 40 percent
  of the country's electricity - hydropower accounts for about
  one-fourth. Economic ties with Russia remain close, especially in
  the energy sector. The electricity distribution system was
  privatized in 2002 and bought by Russia's RAO-UES in 2005.
  Construction of a pipeline to deliver natural gas from Iran to
  Armenia is halfway completed and is scheduled to be commissioned by
  January 2009. Armenia has some mineral deposits (copper, gold,
  bauxite). Pig iron, unwrought copper, and other nonferrous metals
  are Armenia's highest valued exports. Armenia's severe trade
  imbalance has been offset somewhat by international aid, remittances
  from Armenians working abroad, and foreign direct investment.
  Armenia joined the WTO in January 2003. The government made some
  improvements in tax and customs administration in recent years, but
  anti-corruption measures will be more difficult to implement.
  Despite strong economic growth, Armenia's unemployment rate remains
  high. Armenia will need to pursue additional economic reforms in
  order to improve its economic competitiveness and to build on recent
  improvements in poverty and unemployment, especially given its
  economic isolation from two of its nearest neighbors, Turkey and
  Azerbaijan.

Aruba
  Tourism is the mainstay of the small, open Aruban economy,
  with offshore banking and oil refining and storage also important.
  The rapid growth of the tourism sector over the last decade has
  resulted in a substantial expansion of other activities. Over 1.5
  million tourists per year visit Aruba, with 75% of those from the
  US. Construction continues to boom, with hotel capacity five times
  the 1985 level. In addition, the country's oil refinery reopened in
  1993, providing a major source of employment, foreign exchange
  earnings, and growth. Tourist arrivals have rebounded strongly
  following a dip after the 11 September 2001 attacks. The island
  experiences only a brief low season, and hotel occupancy in 2004
  averaged 80%, compared to 68% throughout the rest of the Caribbean.
  The government has made cutting the budget and trade deficits a high
  priority.

Ashmore and Cartier Islands
  no economic activity

Atlantic Ocean
  The Atlantic Ocean provides some of the world's most
  heavily trafficked sea routes, between and within the Eastern and
  Western Hemispheres. Other economic activity includes the
  exploitation of natural resources, e.g., fishing, dredging of
  aragonite sands (The Bahamas), and production of crude oil and
  natural gas (Caribbean Sea, Gulf of Mexico, and North Sea).

Australia
  Australia has an enviable, strong economy with a per
  capita GDP on par with the four dominant West European economies.
  Robust business and consumer confidence and high export prices for
  raw materials and agricultural products are fueling the economy,
  particularly in mining states. Australia's emphasis on reforms, low
  inflation, a housing market boom, and growing ties with China have
  been key factors behind the economy's 16 solid years of expansion.
  Drought, robust import demand, and a strong currency have pushed the
  trade deficit up in recent years, while infrastructure bottlenecks
  and a tight labor market are constraining growth in export volumes
  and stoking inflation. Australia's budget has been in surplus since
  2002 due to strong revenue growth.

Austria
  Austria, with its well-developed market economy and high
  standard of living, is closely tied to other EU economies,
  especially Germany's. The Austrian economy also benefits greatly
  from strong commercial relations, especially in the banking and
  insurance sectors, with central, eastern, and southeastern Europe.
  The economy features a large service sector, a sound industrial
  sector, and a small, but highly developed agricultural sector.
  Membership in the EU has drawn an influx of foreign investors
  attracted by Austria's access to the single European market and
  proximity to the new EU economies. The outgoing government has
  successfully pursued a comprehensive economic reform program, aimed
  at streamlining government and creating a more competitive business
  environment, further strengthening Austria's attractiveness as an
  investment location. It has implemented effective pension reforms;
  however, lower taxes in 2005-06 led to a small budget deficit in
  2006 and 2007. Boosted by strong exports, growth nevertheless
  reached 3.3% in both 2006 and 2007, although the economy may slow in
  2008 because of the strong euro, high oil prices, and problems in
  international financial markets. To meet increased competition -
  especially from new EU members and Central European countries -
  Austria will need to continue restructuring, emphasizing
  knowledge-based sectors of the economy, and encouraging greater
  labor flexibility and greater labor participation by its aging
  population.

Azerbaijan
  Azerbaijan's high economic growth in 2006 and 2007 is
  attributable to large and growing oil exports. Azerbaijan's oil
  production declined through 1997, but has registered an increase
  every year since. Negotiation of production-sharing arrangements
  (PSAs) with foreign firms, which have committed $60 billion to
  long-term oilfield development, should generate the funds needed to
  spur future industrial development. Oil production under the first
  of these PSAs, with the Azerbaijan International Operating Company,
  began in November 1997. A consortium of Western oil companies began
  pumping 1 million barrels a day from a large offshore field in early
  2006, through a $4 billion pipeline it built from Baku to Turkey's
  Mediterranean port of Ceyhan. By 2010 revenues from this project
  will double the country's current GDP. Azerbaijan shares all the
  formidable problems of the former Soviet republics in making the
  transition from a command to a market economy, but its considerable
  energy resources brighten its long-term prospects. Baku has only
  recently begun making progress on economic reform, and old economic
  ties and structures are slowly being replaced. Several other
  obstacles impede Azerbaijan's economic progress: the need for
  stepped up foreign investment in the non-energy sector, the
  continuing conflict with Armenia over the Nagorno-Karabakh region,
  pervasive corruption, and elevated inflation. Trade with Russia and
  the other former Soviet republics is declining in importance, while
  trade is building with Turkey and the nations of Europe. Long-term
  prospects will depend on world oil prices, the location of new oil
  and gas pipelines in the region, and Azerbaijan's ability to manage
  its energy wealth.

Bahamas, The
  The Bahamas is one of the wealthiest Caribbean
  countries with an economy heavily dependent on tourism and offshore
  banking. Tourism together with tourism-driven construction and
  manufacturing accounts for approximately 60% of GDP and directly or
  indirectly employs half of the archipelago's labor force. Steady
  growth in tourism receipts and a boom in construction of new hotels,
  resorts, and residences had led to solid GDP growth in recent years,
  but tourist arrivals have been on the decline since 2006. Financial
  services constitute the second-most important sector of the Bahamian
  economy and, when combined with business services, account for about
  36% of GDP. However, since December 2000, when the government
  enacted new regulations on the financial sector, many international
  businesses have left The Bahamas. Manufacturing and agriculture
  combined contribute approximately a tenth of GDP and show little
  growth, despite government incentives aimed at those sectors.
  Overall growth prospects in the short run rest heavily on the
  fortunes of the tourism sector. Tourism, in turn, depends on growth
  in the US, the source of more than 80% of the visitors.

Bahrain
  With its highly developed communication and transport
  facilities, Bahrain is home to numerous multinational firms with
  business in the Gulf. Petroleum production and refining account for
  over 60% of Bahrain's export receipts, over 70% of government
  revenues, and 11% of GDP (exclusive of allied industries),
  underpinning Bahrain's strong economic growth in recent years.
  Aluminum is Bahrain's second major export after oil. Other major
  segments of Bahrain's economy are the financial and construction
  sectors. Bahrain is focused on Islamic banking and is competing on
  an international scale with Malaysia as a worldwide banking center.
  Bahrain is actively pursuing the diversification and privatization
  of its economy to reduce the country's dependence on oil. As part of
  this effort, in August 2006 Bahrain and the US implemented a Free
  Trade Agreement (FTA), the first FTA between the US and a Gulf
  state. Continued strong growth hinges on Bahrain's ability to
  acquire new natural gas supplies as feedstock to support its
  expanding petrochemical and aluminum industries. Unemployment,
  especially among the young, and the depletion of oil and underground
  water resources are long-term economic problems.

Bangladesh
  The economy has grown 5-6% over the past few years
  despite inefficient state-owned enterprises, delays in exploiting
  natural gas resources, insufficient power supplies, and slow
  implementation of economic reforms. Bangladesh remains a poor,
  overpopulated, and inefficiently-governed nation. Although more than
  half of GDP is generated through the service sector, nearly
  two-thirds of Bangladeshis are employed in the agriculture sector,
  with rice as the single-most-important product. Garment exports and
  remittances from Bangladeshis working overseas, mainly in the Middle
  East and East Asia, fuel economic growth.

Barbados
  Historically, the Barbadian economy was dependent on
  sugarcane cultivation and related activities. However, production in
  recent years has diversified into light industry and tourism, with
  about three-quarters of GDP and 80% of exports being attributed to
  services. Growth has rebounded since 2003, bolstered by increases in
  construction projects and tourism revenues - reflecting its success
  in the higher-end segment. The country enjoys one of the highest per
  capita incomes in the region and an investment grade rating which
  benefits from its political stability and stable institutions.
  Offshore finance and information services are important foreign
  exchange earners and thrive from having the same time zone as
  eastern US financial centers and a relatively highly educated
  workforce. The government continues its efforts to reduce
  unemployment, to encourage direct foreign investment, and to
  privatize remaining state-owned enterprises.

Belarus
  Belarus has seen little structural reform since 1995, when
  President LUKASHENKO launched the country on the path of "market
  socialism." In keeping with this policy, LUKASHENKO reimposed
  administrative controls over prices and currency exchange rates and
  expanded the state's right to intervene in the management of private
  enterprises. Since 2005, the government has re-nationalized a number
  of private companies. In addition, businesses have been subject to
  pressure by central and local governments, e.g., arbitrary changes
  in regulations, numerous rigorous inspections, retroactive
  application of new business regulations, and arrests of "disruptive"
  businessmen and factory owners. A wide range of redistributive
  policies has helped those at the bottom of the ladder; the Gini
  coefficient is among the lowest in the world. Because of these
  restrictive economic policies, Belarus has had trouble attracting
  foreign investment. Nevertheless, GDP growth has been strong in
  recent years, reaching nearly 7% in 2007, despite the roadblocks of
  a tough, centrally directed economy with a high, but decreasing,
  rate of inflation. Belarus receives heavily discounted oil and
  natural gas from Russia and much of Belarus' growth can be
  attributed to the re-export of Russian oil at market prices. Trade
  with Russia - by far its largest single trade partner - decreased in
  2007, largely as a result of a change in the way the Value Added Tax
  (VAT) on trade was collected. Russia has introduced an export duty
  on oil shipped to Belarus, which will increase gradually through
  2009, and a requirement that Belarusian duties on re-exported
  Russian oil be shared with Russia - 80% will go to Russia in 2008,
  and 85% in 2009. Russia also increased Belarusian natural gas prices
  from $47 per thousand cubic meters (tcm) to $100 per tcm in 2007,
  and plans to increase prices gradually to world levels by 2011.
  Russia's recent policy of bringing energy prices for Belarus to
  world market levels may result in a slowdown in economic growth in
  Belarus over the next few years. Some policy measures, including
  tightening of fiscal and monetary policies, improving energy
  efficiency, and diversifying exports, have been introduced, but
  external borrowing has been the main mechanism used to manage the
  growing pressures on the economy.

Belgium
  This modern, private-enterprise economy has capitalized on
  its central geographic location, highly developed transport network,
  and diversified industrial and commercial base. Industry is
  concentrated mainly in the populous Flemish area in the north. With
  few natural resources, Belgium must import substantial quantities of
  raw materials and export a large volume of manufactures, making its
  economy unusually dependent on the state of world markets. Roughly
  three-quarters of its trade is with other EU countries. Public debt
  is more than 85% of GDP. On the positive side, the government has
  succeeded in balancing its budget, and income distribution is
  relatively equal. Belgium began circulating the euro currency in
  January 2002. Economic growth in 2001-03 dropped sharply because of
  the global economic slowdown, with moderate recovery in 2004-07.
  Economic growth and foreign direct investment are expected to slow
  down in 2008, due to credit tightening, falling consumer and
  business confidence, and above average inflation. However, with the
  successful negotiation of the 2008 budget and devolution of power
  within the government, political tensions seem to be easing and
  could lead to an improvement in the economic outlook for 2008.

Belize
  In this small, essentially private-enterprise economy,
  tourism is the number one foreign exchange earner followed by
  exports of marine products, citrus, cane sugar, bananas, and
  garments. The government's expansionary monetary and fiscal
  policies, initiated in September 1998, led to sturdy GDP growth
  averaging nearly 4% in 1999-2007. Oil discoveries in 2006 bolstered
  the economic growth in 2006 and 2007. Major concerns continue to be
  the sizable trade deficit and unsustainable foreign debt. In
  February 2007, the government restructured nearly all of its public
  external commercial debt, which will reduce interest payments and
  relieve liquidity concerns. A key short-term objective remains the
  reduction of poverty with the help of international donors.

Benin
  The economy of Benin remains underdeveloped and dependent on
  subsistence agriculture, cotton production, and regional trade.
  Growth in real output has averaged around 5% in the past seven
  years, but rapid population growth has offset much of this increase.
  Inflation has subsided over the past several years. In order to
  raise growth still further, Benin plans to attract more foreign
  investment, place more emphasis on tourism, facilitate the
  development of new food processing systems and agricultural
  products, and encourage new information and communication
  technology. Specific projects to improve the business climate by
  reforms to the land tenure system, the commercial justice system,
  and the financial sector were included in Benin's $307 million
  Millennium Challenge Account grant signed in February 2006. The 2001
  privatization policy continues in telecommunications, water,
  electricity, and agriculture though the government annulled the
  privatization of Benin's state cotton company in November 2007 after
  the discovery of irregularities in the bidding process. The Paris
  Club and bilateral creditors have eased the external debt situation,
  with Benin benefiting from a G8 debt reduction announced in July
  2005, while pressing for more rapid structural reforms. An
  insufficient electrical supply continues to adversely affect Benin's
  economic growth though the government recently has taken steps to
  increase domestic power production.

Bermuda
  Bermuda enjoys the third highest per capita income in the
  world, more than 50% higher than that of the US. Its economy is
  primarily based on providing financial services for international
  business and luxury facilities for tourists. A number of reinsurance
  companies relocated to the island following the 11 September 2001
  attacks and again after Hurricane Katrina in August 2005,
  contributing to the expansion of an already robust international
  business sector. Bermuda's tourism industry - which derives over 80%
  of its visitors from the US - continues to struggle but remains the
  island's number two industry. Most capital equipment and food must
  be imported. Bermuda's industrial sector is small, although
  construction continues to be important; the average cost of a house
  in June 2003 had risen to $976,000. Agriculture is limited with only
  20% of the land being arable.

Bhutan
  The economy, one of the world's smallest and least developed,
  is based on agriculture and forestry, which provide the main
  livelihood for more than 60% of the population. Agriculture consists
  largely of subsistence farming and animal husbandry. Rugged
  mountains dominate the terrain and make the building of roads and
  other infrastructure difficult and expensive. The economy is closely
  aligned with India's through strong trade and monetary links and
  dependence on India's financial assistance. The industrial sector is
  technologically backward, with most production of the cottage
  industry type. Most development projects, such as road construction,
  rely on Indian migrant labor. Model education, social, and
  environment programs are underway with support from multilateral
  development organizations. Each economic program takes into account
  the government's desire to protect the country's environment and
  cultural traditions. For example, the government, in its cautious
  expansion of the tourist sector, encourages visits by upscale,
  environmentally conscientious tourists. Detailed controls and
  uncertain policies in areas such as industrial licensing, trade,
  labor, and finance continue to hamper foreign investment. Hydropower
  exports to India had a major impact on growth in 2007.

Bolivia
  Bolivia is one of the poorest and least developed countries
  in Latin America. Following a disastrous economic crisis during the
  early 1980s, reforms spurred private investment, stimulated economic
  growth, and cut poverty rates in the 1990s. The period 2003-05 was
  characterized by political instability, racial tensions, and violent
  protests against plans - subsequently abandoned - to export
  Bolivia's newly discovered natural gas reserves to large northern
  hemisphere markets. In 2005, the government passed a controversial
  hydrocarbons law that imposed significantly higher royalties and
  required foreign firms then operating under risk-sharing contracts
  to surrender all production to the state energy company, which was
  made the sole exporter of natural gas. The law also required that
  the state energy company regain control over the five companies that
  were privatized during the 1990s - a process that is still underway.
  In 2006, higher earnings for mining and hydrocarbons exports pushed
  the current account surplus to about 12% of GDP and the government's
  higher tax take produced a fiscal surplus after years of large
  deficits. Debt relief from the G8 - announced in 2005 - also has
  significantly reduced Bolivia's public sector debt burden. Private
  investment as a share of GDP, however, remains among the lowest in
  Latin America, and inflation reached double-digit levels in 2007.

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  Bosnia and Herzegovina ranked next to
  Macedonia as the poorest republic in the old Yugoslav federation.
  Although agriculture is almost all in private hands, farms are small
  and inefficient, and the republic traditionally is a net importer of
  food. The private sector is growing and foreign investment is slowly
  increasing, but government spending, at nearly 40% of adjusted GDP,
  remains unreasonably high. The interethnic warfare in Bosnia caused
  production to plummet by 80% from 1992 to 1995 and unemployment to
  soar. With an uneasy peace in place, output recovered in 1996-99 at
  high percentage rates from a low base; but output growth slowed in
  2000-02. Part of the lag in output was made up in 2003-07 when GDP
  growth exceeded 5% per year. National-level statistics are limited
  and do not capture the large share of black market activity. The
  konvertibilna marka (convertible mark or BAM)- the national currency
  introduced in 1998 - is pegged to the euro, and confidence in the
  currency and the banking sector has increased. Implementing
  privatization, however, has been slow, particularly in the
  Federation, although more successful in the Republika Srpska.
  Banking reform accelerated in 2001 as all the Communist-era payments
  bureaus were shut down; foreign banks, primarily from Western
  Europe, now control most of the banking sector. A sizeable current
  account deficit and high unemployment rate remain the two most
  serious macroeconomic problems. On 1 January 2006 a new value-added
  tax (VAT) went into effect. The VAT has been successful in capturing
  much of the gray market economy and has developed into a significant
  and predictable source of revenues for all layers of government.
  Bosnia and Herzegovina became a full member of the Central European
  Free Trade Agreement in September 2007. The country receives
  substantial reconstruction assistance and humanitarian aid from the
  international community but will have to prepare for an era of
  declining assistance.

Botswana
  Botswana has maintained one of the world's highest economic
  growth rates since independence in 1966, though growth slowed to
  4.7% annually in 2006-07. Through fiscal discipline and sound
  management, Botswana has transformed itself from one of the poorest
  countries in the world to a middle-income country with a per capita
  GDP of nearly $15,000 in 2007. Two major investment services rank
  Botswana as the best credit risk in Africa. Diamond mining has
  fueled much of the expansion and currently accounts for more than
  one-third of GDP and for 70-80% of export earnings. Tourism,
  financial services, subsistence farming, and cattle raising are
  other key sectors. On the downside, the government must deal with
  high rates of unemployment and poverty. Unemployment officially was
  23.8% in 2004, but unofficial estimates place it closer to 40%.
  HIV/AIDS infection rates are the second highest in the world and
  threaten Botswana's impressive economic gains. An expected leveling
  off in diamond mining production overshadows long-term prospects.

Bouvet Island
  no economic activity; declared a nature reserve

Brazil
  Characterized by large and well-developed agricultural,
  mining, manufacturing, and service sectors, Brazil's economy
  outweighs that of all other South American countries and is
  expanding its presence in world markets. Having weathered 2001-03
  financial turmoil, capital inflows are regaining strength and the
  currency has resumed appreciating. The appreciation has slowed
  export volume growth, but since 2004, Brazil's growth has yielded
  increases in employment and real wages. The resilience in the
  economy stems from commodity-driven current account surpluses, and
  sound macroeconomic policies that have bolstered international
  reserves to historically high levels, reduced public debt, and
  allowed a significant decline in real interest rates. A floating
  exchange rate, an inflation-targeting regime, and a tight fiscal
  policy are the three pillars of the economic program. From 2003 to
  2007, Brazil ran record trade surpluses and recorded its first
  current account surpluses since 1992. Productivity gains coupled
  with high commodity prices contributed to the surge in exports.
  Brazil improved its debt profile in 2006 by shifting its debt burden
  toward real denominated and domestically held instruments. "LULA" DA
  SILVA restated his commitment to fiscal responsibility by
  maintaining the country's primary surplus during the 2006 election.
  Following his second inauguration, "LULA" DA SILVA announced a
  package of further economic reforms to reduce taxes and increase
  investment in infrastructure. The government's goal of achieving
  strong growth while reducing the debt burden is likely to create
  inflationary pressures.

British Indian Ocean Territory
  All economic activity is concentrated
  on the largest island of Diego Garcia, where a joint UK-US military
  facility is located. Construction projects and various services
  needed to support the military installation are performed by
  military and contract employees from the UK, Mauritius, the
  Philippines, and the US. There are no industrial or agricultural
  activities on the islands. When the native Ilois return, they plan
  to reestablish sugarcane production and fishing. The territory earns
  foreign exchange by selling fishing licenses and postage stamps.

British Virgin Islands
  The economy, one of the most stable and
  prosperous in the Caribbean, is highly dependent on tourism,
  generating an estimated 45% of the national income. An estimated
  820,000 tourists, mainly from the US, visited the islands in 2005.
  In the mid-1980s, the government began offering offshore
  registration to companies wishing to incorporate in the islands, and
  incorporation fees now generate substantial revenues. Roughly
  400,000 companies were on the offshore registry by yearend 2000. The
  adoption of a comprehensive insurance law in late 1994, which
  provides a blanket of confidentiality with regulated statutory
  gateways for investigation of criminal offenses, made the British
  Virgin Islands even more attractive to international business.
  Livestock raising is the most important agricultural activity; poor
  soils limit the islands' ability to meet domestic food requirements.
  Because of traditionally close links with the US Virgin Islands, the
  British Virgin Islands has used the US dollar as its currency since
  1959.

Brunei
  Brunei has a small well-to-do economy that encompasses a
  mixture of foreign and domestic entrepreneurship, government
  regulation, welfare measures, and village tradition. Crude oil and
  natural gas production account for just over half of GDP and more
  than 90% of exports. Per capita GDP is among the highest in Asia,
  and substantial income from overseas investment supplements income
  from domestic production. The government provides for all medical
  services and free education through the university level and
  subsidizes rice and housing. Brunei's leaders are concerned that
  steadily increased integration in the world economy will undermine
  internal social cohesion. Plans for the future include upgrading the
  labor force, reducing unemployment, strengthening the banking and
  tourist sectors, and, in general, further widening the economic base
  beyond oil and gas.

Bulgaria
  Bulgaria, a former communist country that entered the EU on
  1 January 2007, has experienced strong growth since a major economic
  downturn in 1996. Successive governments have demonstrated
  commitment to economic reforms and responsible fiscal planning, but
  have failed so far to rein in rising inflation and large current
  account deficits. Bulgaria has averaged more than 6% growth since
  2004, attracting significant amounts of foreign direct investment,
  but corruption in the public administration, a weak judiciary, and
  the presence of organized crime remain significant challenges.

Burkina Faso
  One of the poorest countries in the world, landlocked
  Burkina Faso has few natural resources and a weak industrial base.
  About 90% of the population is engaged in subsistence agriculture,
  which is vulnerable to periodic drought. Cotton is the main cash
  crop and the government has joined with three other cotton producing
  countries in the region - Mali, Niger, and Chad - to lobby in the
  World Trade Organization for fewer subsidies to producers in other
  competing countries. Since 1998, Burkina Faso has embarked upon a
  gradual but successful privatization of state-owned enterprises.
  Having revised its investment code in 2004, Burkina Faso hopes to
  attract foreign investors. Thanks to this new code and other
  legislation favoring the mining sector, the country has seen an
  upswing in gold exploration and production. While the bitter
  internal crisis in neighboring Cote d'Ivoire is beginning to be
  resolved, it is still having a negative effect on Burkina Faso's
  trade and employment. In 2007 higher costs for energy and imported
  foodstuffs, as well as low cotton prices, dampened a GDP growth rate
  that had averaged 6% in the last 10 years. Burkina Faso received a
  Millennium Challenge Account threshold grant to improve girls'
  education at the primary school level, and appears likely to receive
  a grant in the areas of infrastructure, agriculture, and land reform.

Burma
  Burma, a resource-rich country, suffers from pervasive
  government controls, inefficient economic policies, and rural
  poverty. The junta took steps in the early 1990s to liberalize the
  economy after decades of failure under the "Burmese Way to
  Socialism," but those efforts stalled, and some of the
  liberalization measures were rescinded. Despite Burma's increasing
  oil and gas revenue, socio-economic conditions have deteriorated due
  to the regime's mismanagement of the economy. Lacking monetary or
  fiscal stability, the economy suffers from serious macroeconomic
  imbalances - including rising inflation, fiscal deficits, multiple
  official exchange rates that overvalue the Burmese kyat, a distorted
  interest rate regime, unreliable statistics, and an inability to
  reconcile national accounts to determine a realistic GDP figure.
  Most overseas development assistance ceased after the junta began to
  suppress the democracy movement in 1988 and subsequently refused to
  honor the results of the 1990 legislative elections. In response to
  the government of Burma's attack in May 2003 on AUNG SAN SUU KYI and
  her convoy, the US imposed new economic sanctions in August 2003
  including a ban on imports of Burmese products and a ban on
  provision of financial services by US persons. Further, a poor
  investment climate hampers attracting outside investment slowing the
  inflow of foreign exchange. The most productive sectors will
  continue to be in extractive industries, especially oil and gas,
  mining, and timber with the latter especially causing environmental
  degradation. Other areas, such as manufacturing and services, are
  struggling with inadequate infrastructure, unpredictable
  import/export policies, deteriorating health and education systems,
  and endemic corruption. A major banking crisis in 2003 shuttered the
  country's 20 private banks and disrupted the economy. As of 2007,
  the largest private banks operated under tight restrictions limiting
  the private sector's access to formal credit. Moreover, the
  September 2007 crackdown on prodemocracy demonstrators, including
  thousands of monks, further strained the economy as the tourism
  industry, which directly employs about 500,000 people, suffered
  dramatic declines in foreign visitor levels. In November 2007, the
  European Union announced new sanctions banning investment and trade
  in Burmese gems, timber and precious stones, while the United States
  expanded its sanctions list to include more Burmese government and
  military officials and their family members, as well as prominent
  regime business cronies, their family members, and associated
  companies. Official statistics are inaccurate. Published statistics
  on foreign trade are greatly understated because of the size of the
  black market and unofficial border trade - often estimated to be as
  large as the official economy. Though the Burmese government has
  good economic relations with its neighbors, better investment and
  business climates and an improved political situation are needed to
  promote serious foreign investment, exports, and tourism.

Burundi
  Burundi is a landlocked, resource-poor country with an
  underdeveloped manufacturing sector. The economy is predominantly
  agricultural with more than 90% of the population dependent on
  subsistence agriculture. Economic growth depends on coffee and tea
  exports, which account for 90% of foreign exchange earnings. The
  ability to pay for imports, therefore, rests primarily on weather
  conditions and international coffee and tea prices. The Tutsi
  minority, 14% of the population, dominates the government and the
  coffee trade at the expense of the Hutu majority, 85% of the
  population. An ethnic-based war that lasted for over a decade
  resulted in more than 200,000 deaths, forced more than 48,000
  refugees into Tanzania, and displaced 140,000 others internally.
  Only one in two children go to school, and approximately one in 15
  adults has HIV/AIDS. Food, medicine, and electricity remain in short
  supply. Burundi's GDP grew around 5% annually in 2006-07. Political
  stability and the end of the civil war have improved aid flows and
  economic activity has increased, but underlying weaknesses - a high
  poverty rate, poor education rates, a weak legal system, and low
  administrative capacity - risk undermining planned economic reforms.
  Burundi will continue to remain heavily dependent on aid from
  bilateral and multilateral donors; the delay of funds after a
  corruption scandal cut off bilateral aid in 2007 reduced
  government's revenues and its ability to pay salaries.

Cambodia
  From 2001 to 2004, the economy grew at an average rate of
  6.4%, driven largely by an expansion in the garment sector and
  tourism. The US and Cambodia signed a Bilateral Textile Agreement,
  which gave Cambodia a guaranteed quota of US textile imports and
  established a bonus for improving working conditions and enforcing
  Cambodian labor laws and international labor standards in the
  industry. With the January 2005 expiration of a WTO Agreement on
  Textiles and Clothing, Cambodia-based textile producers were forced
  to compete directly with lower-priced producing countries such as
  China and India. Better-than-expected garment sector performance led
  to more than 9% growth in 2007. Its vibrant garment industry employs
  more than 350,000 people and contributes more than 70% of Cambodia's
  exports. The Cambodian government has committed itself to a policy
  supporting high labor standards in an attempt to maintain buyer
  interest. In 2005, exploitable oil and natural gas deposits were
  found beneath Cambodia's territorial waters, representing a new
  revenue stream for the government if commercial extraction begins.
  Mining also is attracting significant investor interest,
  particularly in the northeastern parts of the country, and the
  government has said opportunities exist for mining bauxite, gold,
  iron and gems. In 2006, a US-Cambodia bilateral Trade and Investment
  Framework Agreement (TIFA) was signed and the first round of
  discussions took place in early 2007. The tourism industry continues
  to grow rapidly, with foreign arrivals reaching 2 million in 2007.
  In 2007 the government signed a joint venture agreement with two
  companies to form a new national airline. The long-term development
  of the economy remains a daunting challenge. The Cambodian
  government is working with bilateral and multilateral donors,
  including the World Bank and IMF, to address the country's many
  pressing needs. The major economic challenge for Cambodia over the
  next decade will be fashioning an economic environment in which the
  private sector can create enough jobs to handle Cambodia's
  demographic imbalance. More than 50% of the population is less than
  21 years old. The population lacks education and productive skills,
  particularly in the poverty-ridden countryside, which suffers from
  an almost total lack of basic infrastructure.

Cameroon
  Because of its modest oil resources and favorable
  agricultural conditions, Cameroon has one of the best-endowed
  primary commodity economies in sub-Saharan Africa. Still, it faces
  many of the serious problems facing other underdeveloped countries,
  such as a top-heavy civil service and a generally unfavorable
  climate for business enterprise. Since 1990, the government has
  embarked on various IMF and World Bank programs designed to spur
  business investment, increase efficiency in agriculture, improve
  trade, and recapitalize the nation's banks. In June 2000, the
  government completed an IMF-sponsored, three-year structural
  adjustment program; however, the IMF is pressing for more reforms,
  including increased budget transparency, privatization, and poverty
  reduction programs. In January 2001, the Paris Club agreed to reduce
  Cameroon's debt of $1.3 billion by $900 million; debt relief now
  totals $1.26 billion. International oil and cocoa prices have a
  significant impact on the economy.

Canada
  As an affluent, high-tech industrial society in the
  trillion-dollar class, Canada resembles the US in its
  market-oriented economic system, pattern of production, and affluent
  living standards. Since World War II, the impressive growth of the
  manufacturing, mining, and service sectors has transformed the
  nation from a largely rural economy into one primarily industrial
  and urban. The 1989 US-Canada Free Trade Agreement (FTA) and the
  1994 North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) (which includes
  Mexico) touched off a dramatic increase in trade and economic
  integration with the US. Given its great natural resources, skilled
  labor force, and modern capital plant, Canada enjoys solid economic
  prospects. Top-notch fiscal management has produced consecutive
  balanced budgets since 1997, although public debate continues over
  the equitable distribution of federal funds to the Canadian
  provinces. Exports account for roughly a third of GDP. Canada enjoys
  a substantial trade surplus with its principal trading partner, the
  US, which absorbs 80% of Canadian exports each year. Canada is the
  US's largest foreign supplier of energy, including oil, gas,
  uranium, and electric power. During 2007, Canada enjoyed good
  economic growth, moderate inflation, and the lowest unemployment
  rate in more than three decades.

Cape Verde
  This island economy suffers from a poor natural resource
  base, including serious water shortages exacerbated by cycles of
  long-term drought. The economy is service-oriented, with commerce,
  transport, tourism, and public services accounting for about
  three-fourths of GDP. Although nearly 70% of the population lives in
  rural areas, the share of food production in GDP is low. About 82%
  of food must be imported. The fishing potential, mostly lobster and
  tuna, is not fully exploited. Cape Verde annually runs a high trade
  deficit, financed by foreign aid and remittances from emigrants;
  remittances supplement GDP by more than 20%. Economic reforms are
  aimed at developing the private sector and attracting foreign
  investment to diversify the economy. Future prospects depend heavily
  on the maintenance of aid flows, the encouragement of tourism,
  remittances, and the momentum of the government's development
  program. Cape Verde became a member of the WTO in July 2008.

Cayman Islands
  With no direct taxation, the islands are a thriving
  offshore financial center. More than 68,000 companies were
  registered in the Cayman Islands as of 2003, including almost 500
  banks, 800 insurers, and 5,000 mutual funds. A stock exchange was
  opened in 1997. Tourism is also a mainstay, accounting for about 70%
  of GDP and 75% of foreign currency earnings. The tourist industry is
  aimed at the luxury market and caters mainly to visitors from North
  America. Total tourist arrivals exceeded 2.1 million in 2003, with
  about half from the US. About 90% of the islands' food and consumer
  goods must be imported. The Caymanians enjoy one of the highest
  outputs per capita and one of the highest standards of living in the
  world.

Central African Republic
  Subsistence agriculture, together with
  forestry, remains the backbone of the economy of the Central African
  Republic (CAR), with more than 70% of the population living in
  outlying areas. The agricultural sector generates more than half of
  GDP. Timber has accounted for about 16% of export earnings and the
  diamond industry, for 40%. Important constraints to economic
  development include the CAR's landlocked position, a poor
  transportation system, a largely unskilled work force, and a legacy
  of misdirected macroeconomic policies. Factional fighting between
  the government and its opponents remains a drag on economic
  revitalization. Distribution of income is extraordinarily unequal.
  Grants from France and the international community can only
  partially meet humanitarian needs.

Chad
  Chad's primarily agricultural economy will continue to be
  boosted by major foreign direct investment projects in the oil
  sector that began in 2000. At least 80% of Chad's population relies
  on subsistence farming and livestock raising for its livelihood.
  Chad's economy has long been handicapped by its landlocked position,
  high energy costs, and a history of instability. Chad relies on
  foreign assistance and foreign capital for most public and private
  sector investment projects. A consortium led by two US companies has
  been investing $3.7 billion to develop oil reserves - estimated at 1
  billion barrels - in southern Chad. Chinese companies are also
  expanding exploration efforts and plan to build a refinery. The
  nation's total oil reserves have been estimated to be 1.5 billion
  barrels. Oil production came on stream in late 2003. Chad began to
  export oil in 2004. Cotton, cattle, and gum arabic provide the bulk
  of Chad's non-oil export earnings.

Chile
  Chile has a market-oriented economy characterized by a high
  level of foreign trade. During the early 1990s, Chile's reputation
  as a role model for economic reform was strengthened when the
  democratic government of Patricio AYLWIN - which took over from the
  military in 1990 - deepened the economic reform initiated by the
  military government. Growth in real GDP averaged 8% during 1991-97,
  but fell to half that level in 1998 because of tight monetary
  policies implemented to keep the current account deficit in check
  and because of lower export earnings - the latter a product of the
  global financial crisis. A severe drought exacerbated the recession
  in 1999, reducing crop yields and causing hydroelectric shortfalls
  and electricity rationing, and Chile experienced negative economic
  growth for the first time in more than 15 years. Despite the effects
  of the recession, Chile maintained its reputation for strong
  financial institutions and sound policy that have given it the
  strongest sovereign bond rating in South America. Between 2000 and
  2007 growth ranged between 2%-6%. Throughout these years Chile
  maintained a low rate of inflation with GDP growth coming from high
  copper prices, solid export earnings (particularly forestry,
  fishing, and mining), and growing domestic consumption. President
  BACHELET in 2006 established an Economic and Social Stabilization
  Fund to hold excess copper revenues so that social spending can be
  maintained during periods of copper shortfalls. This fund probably
  surpassed $20 billion at the end of 2007. Chile continues to attract
  foreign direct investment, but most foreign investment goes into
  gas, water, electricity and mining. Unemployment has exhibited a
  downward trend over the past two years, dropping to 7.8% and 7.0% at
  the end of 2006 and 2007, respectively. Chile deepened its
  longstanding commitment to trade liberalization with the signing of
  a free trade agreement with the US, which took effect on 1 January
  2004. Chile claims to have more bilateral or regional trade
  agreements than any other country. It has 57 such agreements (not
  all of them full free trade agreements), including with the European
  Union, Mercosur, China, India, South Korea, and Mexico.

China
  China's economy during the last quarter century has changed
  from a centrally planned system that was largely closed to
  international trade to a more market-oriented economy that has a
  rapidly growing private sector and is a major player in the global
  economy. Reforms started in the late 1970s with the phasing out of
  collectivized agriculture, and expanded to include the gradual
  liberalization of prices, fiscal decentralization, increased
  autonomy for state enterprises, the foundation of a diversified
  banking system, the development of stock markets, the rapid growth
  of the non-state sector, and the opening to foreign trade and
  investment. China has generally implemented reforms in a gradualist
  or piecemeal fashion, including the sale of minority shares in four
  of China's largest state banks to foreign investors and refinements
  in foreign exchange and bond markets in 2005. After keeping its
  currency tightly linked to the US dollar for years, China in July
  2005 revalued its currency by 2.1% against the US dollar and moved
  to an exchange rate system that references a basket of currencies.
  Cumulative appreciation of the renminbi against the US dollar since
  the end of the dollar peg reached 15% in January 2008. The
  restructuring of the economy and resulting efficiency gains have
  contributed to a more than tenfold increase in GDP since 1978.
  Measured on a purchasing power parity (PPP) basis, China in 2007
  stood as the second-largest economy in the world after the US,
  although in per capita terms the country is still lower
  middle-income. Annual inflows of foreign direct investment in 2007
  rose to $75 billion. By the end of 2007, more than 5,000 domestic
  Chinese enterprises had established direct investments in 172
  countries and regions around the world. The Chinese government faces
  several economic development challenges: (a) to sustain adequate job
  growth for tens of millions of workers laid off from state-owned
  enterprises, migrants, and new entrants to the work force; (b) to
  reduce corruption and other economic crimes; and (c) to contain
  environmental damage and social strife related to the economy's
  rapid transformation. Economic development has been more rapid in
  coastal provinces than in the interior, and approximately 200
  million rural laborers have relocated to urban areas to find work.
  One demographic consequence of the "one child" policy is that China
  is now one of the most rapidly aging countries in the world.
  Deterioration in the environment - notably air pollution, soil
  erosion, and the steady fall of the water table, especially in the
  north - is another long-term problem. China continues to lose arable
  land because of erosion and economic development. In 2007 China
  intensified government efforts to improve environmental conditions,
  tying the evaluation of local officials to environmental targets,
  publishing a national climate change policy, and establishing a high
  level leading group on climate change, headed by Premier WEN Jiabao.
  The Chinese government seeks to add energy production capacity from
  sources other than coal and oil as its double-digit economic growth
  increases demand. Chinese energy officials in 2007 agreed to
  purchase five third generation nuclear reactors from Western
  companies. More power generating capacity came on line in 2006 as
  large scale investments - including the Three Gorges Dam across the
  Yangtze River - were completed.

Christmas Island
  Phosphate mining had been the only significant
  economic activity, but in December 1987 the Australian Government
  closed the mine. In 1991, the mine was reopened. With the support of
  the government, a $34 million casino opened in 1993, but closed in
  1998. The Australian Government in 2001 agreed to support the
  creation of a commercial space-launching site on the island,
  expected to begin operations in the near future.

Clipperton Island
  Although 115 species of fish have been identified
  in the territorial waters of Clipperton Island, the only economic
  activity is tuna fishing.

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  Grown throughout the islands, coconuts are
  the sole cash crop. Small local gardens and fishing contribute to
  the food supply, but additional food and most other necessities must
  be imported from Australia. There is a small tourist industry.

Colombia
  Colombia's economy has experienced positive growth over the
  past five years despite a serious armed conflict. In fact, 2007 is
  regarded by policy makers and the private sector as one of the best
  economic years in recent history, after 2005. The economy continues
  to improve in part because of austere government budgets, focused
  efforts to reduce public debt levels, an export-oriented growth
  strategy, improved domestic security, and high commodity prices.
  Ongoing economic problems facing President URIBE include reforming
  the pension system, reducing high unemployment, and funding new
  exploration to offset declining oil production. The government's
  economic reforms and democratic security strategy, coupled with
  increased investment, have engendered a growing sense of confidence
  in the economy. However, the business sector continues to be
  concerned about failure of the US Congress to approve the signed FTA.

Comoros
  One of the world's poorest countries, Comoros is made up of
  three islands that have inadequate transportation links, a young and
  rapidly increasing population, and few natural resources. The low
  educational level of the labor force contributes to a subsistence
  level of economic activity, high unemployment, and a heavy
  dependence on foreign grants and technical assistance. Agriculture,
  including fishing, hunting, and forestry, contributes 40% to GDP,
  employs 80% of the labor force, and provides most of the exports.
  The country is not self-sufficient in food production; rice, the
  main staple, accounts for the bulk of imports. The government -
  which is hampered by internal political disputes - is struggling to
  upgrade education and technical training, privatize commercial and
  industrial enterprises, improve health services, diversify exports,
  promote tourism, and reduce the high population growth rate. The
  political problems caused the economy to contract in 2007.
  Remittances from 150,000 Comorans abroad help supplement GDP.

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  The economy of the Democratic
  Republic of the Congo - a nation endowed with vast potential wealth
  - is slowly recovering from two decades of decline. Conflict, which
  began in August 1998, dramatically reduced national output and
  government revenue, increased external debt, and resulted in the
  deaths of more than 3.5 million people from violence, famine, and
  disease. Foreign businesses curtailed operations due to uncertainty
  about the outcome of the conflict, lack of infrastructure, and the
  difficult operating environment. Conditions began to improve in late
  2002 with the withdrawal of a large portion of the invading foreign
  troops. The transitional government reopened relations with
  international financial institutions and international donors, and
  President KABILA has begun implementing reforms, although progress
  is slow and the International Monetary Fund curtailed their program
  for the DRC at the end of March 2006 because of fiscal overruns.
  Much economic activity still occurs in the informal sector, and is
  not reflected in GDP data. Renewed activity in the mining sector,
  the source of most export income, boosted Kinshasa's fiscal position
  and GDP growth. Government reforms and improved security may lead to
  increased government revenues, outside budget assistance, and
  foreign direct investment, although an uncertain legal framework,
  corruption, and a lack of transparency in government policy are
  continuing long-term problems.

Congo, Republic of the
  The economy is a mixture of subsistence
  agriculture, an industrial sector based largely on oil, and support
  services, and a government characterized by budget problems and
  overstaffing. Oil has supplanted forestry as the mainstay of the
  economy, providing a major share of government revenues and exports.
  In the early 1980s, rapidly rising oil revenues enabled the
  government to finance large-scale development projects with GDP
  growth averaging 5% annually, one of the highest rates in Africa.
  The government has mortgaged a substantial portion of its oil
  earnings through oil-backed loans that have contributed to a growing
  debt burden and chronic revenue shortfalls. Economic reform efforts
  have been undertaken with the support of international
  organizations, notably the World Bank and the IMF. However, the
  reform program came to a halt in June 1997 when civil war erupted.
  Denis SASSOU-NGUESSO, who returned to power when the war ended in
  October 1997, publicly expressed interest in moving forward on
  economic reforms and privatization and in renewing cooperation with
  international financial institutions. Economic progress was badly
  hurt by slumping oil prices and the resumption of armed conflict in
  December 1998, which worsened the republic's budget deficit. The
  current administration presides over an uneasy internal peace and
  faces difficult economic challenges of stimulating recovery and
  reducing poverty. Recovery of oil prices has boosted the economy's
  GDP and near-term prospects. In March 2006, the World Bank and the
  International Monetary Fund (IMF) approved Heavily Indebted Poor
  Countries (HIPC) treatment for Congo.

Cook Islands
  Like many other South Pacific island nations, the Cook
  Islands' economic development is hindered by the isolation of the
  country from foreign markets, the limited size of domestic markets,
  lack of natural resources, periodic devastation from natural
  disasters, and inadequate infrastructure. Agriculture, employing
  about one-third of the working population, provides the economic
  base with major exports made up of copra and citrus fruit. Black
  pearls are the Cook Islands' leading export. Manufacturing
  activities are limited to fruit processing, clothing, and
  handicrafts. Trade deficits are offset by remittances from emigrants
  and by foreign aid, overwhelmingly from New Zealand. In the 1980s
  and 1990s, the country lived beyond its means, maintaining a bloated
  public service and accumulating a large foreign debt. Subsequent
  reforms, including the sale of state assets, the strengthening of
  economic management, the encouragement of tourism, and a debt
  restructuring agreement, have rekindled investment and growth.

Coral Sea Islands
  no economic activity

Costa Rica
  Costa Rica's basically stable economy depends on tourism,
  agriculture, and electronics exports. Poverty has remained around
  20% for nearly 20 years, and the strong social safety net that had
  been put into place by the government has eroded due to increased
  financial constraints on government expenditures. Immigration from
  Nicaragua has increasingly become a concern for the government. The
  estimated 300,000-500,000 Nicaraguans estimated to be in Costa Rica
  legally and illegally are an important source of (mostly unskilled)
  labor, but also place heavy demands on the social welfare system.
  Foreign investors remain attracted by the country's political
  stability and high education levels, as well as the fiscal
  incentives offered in the free-trade zones. Exports have become more
  diversified in the past 10 years due to the growth of the high-tech
  manufacturing sector, which is dominated by the microprocessor
  industry. Tourism continues to bring in foreign exchange, as Costa
  Rica's impressive biodiversity makes it a key destination for
  ecotourism. The government continues to grapple with its large
  internal and external deficits and sizable internal debt. Reducing
  inflation remains a difficult problem because of rising import
  prices, labor market rigidities, and fiscal deficits. Tax and public
  expenditure reforms will be necessary to close the budget gap. In
  October 2007, a national referendum voted in favor of the US-Central
  American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA).

Cote d'Ivoire
  Cote d'Ivoire is the world's largest producer and
  exporter of cocoa beans and a significant producer and exporter of
  coffee and palm oil. Consequently, the economy is highly sensitive
  to fluctuations in international prices for these products, and, to
  a lesser extent, in climatic conditions. Despite government attempts
  to diversify the economy, it is still heavily dependent on
  agriculture and related activities, engaging roughly 68% of the
  population. Since 2006, oil and gas production have become more
  important engines of economic activity than cocoa. According to IMF
  statistics, earnings from oil and refined products were $1.3 billion
  in 2006, while cocoa-related revenues were $1 billion during the
  same period. Cote d'Ivoire's offshore oil and gas production has
  resulted in substantial crude oil exports and provides sufficient
  natural gas to fuel electricity exports to Ghana, Togo, Benin, Mali
  and Burkina Faso. Oil exploration by a number of consortiums of
  private companies continues offshore, and President GBAGBO has
  expressed hope that daily crude output could reach 200,000 barrels
  per day (b/d) by the end of the decade. Since the end of the civil
  war in 2003, political turmoil has continued to damage the economy,
  resulting in the loss of foreign investment and slow economic
  growth. GDP grew by 1.8% in 2006 and 1.7% in 2007. Per capita income
  has declined by 15% since 1999.

Croatia
  Once one of the wealthiest of the Yugoslav republics,
  Croatia's economy suffered badly during the 1991-95 war as output
  collapsed and the country missed the early waves of investment in
  Central and Eastern Europe that followed the fall of the Berlin
  Wall. Since 2000, however, Croatia's economic fortunes have begun to
  improve slowly, with moderate but steady GDP growth between 4% and
  6% led by a rebound in tourism and credit-driven consumer spending.
  Inflation over the same period has remained tame and the currency,
  the kuna, stable. Nevertheless, difficult problems still remain,
  including a stubbornly high unemployment rate, a growing trade
  deficit and uneven regional development. The state retains a large
  role in the economy, as privatization efforts often meet stiff
  public and political resistance. While macroeconomic stabilization
  has largely been achieved, structural reforms lag because of deep
  resistance on the part of the public and lack of strong support from
  politicians. The EU accession process should accelerate fiscal and
  structural reform.

Cuba
  The government continues to balance the need for economic
  loosening against a desire for firm political control. It has rolled
  back limited reforms undertaken in the 1990s to increase enterprise
  efficiency and alleviate serious shortages of food, consumer goods,
  and services. The average Cuban's standard of living remains at a
  lower level than before the downturn of the 1990s, which was caused
  by the loss of Soviet aid and domestic inefficiencies. Since late
  2000, Venezuela has been providing oil on preferential terms, and it
  currently supplies about 100,000 barrels per day of petroleum
  products. Cuba has been paying for the oil, in part, with the
  services of Cuban personnel in Venezuela, including some 20,000
  medical professionals. In 2007, high metals prices continued to
  boost Cuban earnings from nickel and cobalt production. Havana
  continued to invest in the country's energy sector to mitigate
  electrical blackouts that had plagued the country since 2004.

Cyprus
  The area of the Republic of Cyprus under government control
  has a market economy dominated by the service sector, which accounts
  for 78% of GDP. Tourism, financial services, and real estate are the
  most important sectors. Erratic growth rates over the past decade
  reflect the economy's reliance on tourism, which often fluctuates
  with political instability in the region and economic conditions in
  Western Europe. Nevertheless, the economy in the area under
  government control grew by an average of 3.6% per year during the
  period of 2000-06, well above the EU average. Cyprus joined the
  European Exchange Rate Mechanism (ERM2) in May 2005 and adopted the
  euro as its national currency on 1 January 2008. An aggressive
  austerity program in the preceding years, aimed at paving the way
  for the euro, helped turn a soaring fiscal deficit (6.3% in 2003)
  into a surplus of 1.5% in 2007. As in the area administered by
  Turkish Cypriots, water shortages are a perennial problem; a few
  desalination plants are now on line. After 10 years of drought, the
  country received substantial rainfall from 2001-04 alleviating
  immediate concerns. Rainfall in 2005 and 2006, however, was well
  below average, making water rationing a necessity in 2007.

Czech Republic
  The Czech Republic is one of the most stable and
  prosperous of the post-Communist states of Central and Eastern
  Europe. Growth in 2000-07 was supported by exports to the EU,
  primarily to Germany, and a strong recovery of foreign and domestic
  investment. Domestic demand is playing an ever more important role
  in underpinning growth as the availability of credit cards and
  mortgages increases. The current account deficit has declined to
  around 3.3% of GDP as demand for automotive and other products from
  the Czech Republic remains strong in the European Union. Rising
  inflation from higher food and energy prices are a risk to balanced
  economic growth. Significant increases in social spending in the
  run-up to June 2006 elections prevented, the government from meeting
  its goal of reducing its budget deficit to 3% of GDP in 2007.
  Negotiations on pension and additional healthcare reforms are
  continuing without clear prospects for agreement and implementation.
  Intensified restructuring among large enterprises, improvements in
  the financial sector, and effective use of available EU funds should
  strengthen output growth. The pro-business Civic Democratic
  Party-led government approved reforms in 2007 designed to cut
  spending on some social welfare benefits and reform the tax system
  with the aim of eventually reducing the budget deficit to 2.3% of
  GDP by 2010. Parliamentary approval for any additional reforms could
  prove difficult, however, because of the parliament's even split.
  The government withdrew a 2010 target date for euro adoption and
  instead aims to meet the eurozone criteria around 2012.

Denmark
  The Danish economy has in recent years undergone strong
  expansion fueled primarily by private consumption growth, but also
  supported by exports and investments. This thoroughly modern market
  economy features high-tech agriculture, up-to-date small-scale and
  corporate industry, extensive government welfare measures,
  comfortable living standards, a stable currency, and high dependence
  on foreign trade. Unemployment is low and capacity constraints are
  limiting growth potential. Denmark is a net exporter of food and
  energy and enjoys a comfortable balance of payments surplus.
  Government objectives include streamlining the bureaucracy and
  further privatization of state assets. The government has been
  successful in meeting, and even exceeding, the economic convergence
  criteria for participating in the third phase (a common European
  currency) of the European Economic and Monetary Union (EMU), but so
  far Denmark has decided not to join 15 other EU members in the euro.
  Nonetheless, the Danish krone remains pegged to the euro. Economic
  growth gained momentum in 2004 and the upturn continued through
  2007. The controversy over caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad
  printed in a Danish newspaper in September 2005 led to boycotts of
  some Danish exports to the Muslim world, especially exports of dairy
  products, but the boycotts did not have a significant impact on the
  overall Danish economy. Because of high GDP per capita, welfare
  benefits, a low Gini index, and political stability, the Danish
  living standards are among the highest in the world. A major
  long-term issue will be the sharp decline in the ratio of workers to
  retirees.

Dhekelia
  Economic activity is limited to providing services to the
  military and their families located in Dhekelia. All food and
  manufactured goods must be imported.

Djibouti
  The economy is based on service activities connected with
  the country's strategic location and status as a free trade zone in
  the Horn of Africa. Two-thirds of Djibouti's inhabitants live in the
  capital city; the remainder are mostly nomadic herders. Scanty
  rainfall limits crop production to fruits and vegetables, and most
  food must be imported. Djibouti provides services as both a transit
  port for the region and an international transshipment and refueling
  center. Imports and exports from landlocked neighbor Ethiopia
  represent 85% of port activity at Djibouti's container terminal.
  Djibouti has few natural resources and little industry. The nation
  is, therefore, heavily dependent on foreign assistance to help
  support its balance of payments and to finance development projects.
  An unemployment rate of nearly 60% continues to be a major problem.
  While inflation is not a concern, due to the fixed tie of the
  Djiboutian franc to the US dollar, the artificially high value of
  the Djiboutian franc adversely affects Djibouti's balance of
  payments. Per capita consumption dropped an estimated 35% between
  1999 and 2006 because of recession, civil war, and a high population
  growth rate (including immigrants and refugees). Faced with a
  multitude of economic difficulties, the government has fallen in
  arrears on long-term external debt and has been struggling to meet
  the stipulations of foreign aid donors.

Dominica
  The Dominican economy depends on agriculture, primarily
  bananas, and remains highly vulnerable to climatic conditions and
  international economic developments. Tourism has increased as the
  government seeks to promote Dominica as an "ecotourism" destination.
  In 2003, the government began a comprehensive restructuring of the
  economy - including elimination of price controls, privatization of
  the state banana company, and tax increases - to address Dominica's
  economic and financial crisis of 2001-02 and to meet IMF targets.
  This restructuring paved the way for the current economic recovery -
  real growth for 2006 reached a two-decade high - and will help to
  reduce the debt burden, which remains at about 100% of GDP. In order
  to diversify the island's production base, the government is
  attempting to develop an offshore financial sector and is
  researching Dominica's capability to export geothermal energy.

Dominican Republic
  The Dominican Republic has enjoyed strong GDP
  growth since 2005, with double digit growth in 2006. In 2007,
  exports were bolstered by the nearly 50% increase in nickel prices;
  however, prices are expected to fall in 2008, contributing to a
  slowdown in GDP growth for the year. Although the country has long
  been viewed primarily as an exporter of sugar, coffee, and tobacco,
  in recent years the service sector has overtaken agriculture as the
  economy's largest employer due to growth in tourism and free trade
  zones. The economy is highly dependent upon the US, the source of
  nearly three-fourths of exports, and remittances represent about a
  tenth of GDP, equivalent to almost half of exports and
  three-quarters of tourism receipts. With the help of strict fiscal
  targets agreed to in the 2004 renegotiation of an IMF standby loan,
  President FERNANDEZ has stabilized the country's financial
  situation, lowering inflation to less than 6%. A fiscal expansion is
  expected for 2008 prior to the elections in May and for Tropical
  Storm Noel reconstruction. Although the economy is growing at a
  respectable rate, high unemployment and underemployment remains an
  important challenge. The country suffers from marked income
  inequality; the poorest half of the population receives less than
  one-fifth of GNP, while the richest 10% enjoys nearly 40% of
  national income. The Central America-Dominican Republic Free Trade
  Agreement (CAFTA-DR) came into force in March 2007, which should
  boost investment and exports and reduce losses to the Asian garment
  industry.

Ecuador
  Ecuador is substantially dependent on its petroleum
  resources, which have accounted for more than half of the country's
  export earnings and one-fourth of public sector revenues in recent
  years. In 1999/2000, Ecuador suffered a severe economic crisis, with
  GDP contracted by more than 6%, with a significant increase in
  poverty. The banking system also collapsed, and Ecuador defaulted on
  its external debt later that year. In March 2000, Congress approved
  a series of structural reforms that also provided for the adoption
  of the US dollar as legal tender. Dollarization stabilized the
  economy, and positive growth returned in the years that followed,
  helped by high oil prices, remittances, and increased
  non-traditional exports. From 2002-06 the economy grew 5.5%, the
  highest five-year average in 25 years. The poverty rate declined but
  remained high at 38% in 2006. In 2006 the government of Alfredo
  PALACIO (2005-07) seized the assets of Occidental Petroleum for
  alleged contract violations and imposed a windfall revenue tax on
  foreign oil companies, leading to the suspension of free trade
  negotiations with the US. These measures, combined with chronic
  underinvestment in the state oil company, Petroecuador, led to a
  drop in petroleum production in 2007. PALACIO's successor, Rafael
  CORREA, raised the specter of debt default - but Ecuador has paid
  its debt on time. He also decreed a higher windfall revenue tax on
  private oil companies, then sought to renegotiate their contracts to
  overcome the debilitating effect of the tax. This generated economic
  uncertainty; private investment has dropped and economic growth has
  slowed significantly.

Egypt
  Occupying the northeast corner of the African continent, Egypt
  is bisected by the highly fertile Nile valley, where most economic
  activity takes place. In the last 30 years, the government has
  reformed the highly centralized economy it inherited from President
  Gamel Abdel NASSER. In 2005, Prime Minister Ahmed NAZIF's government
  reduced personal and corporate tax rates, reduced energy subsidies,
  and privatized several enterprises. The stock market boomed, and GDP
  grew about 5% per year in 2005-06, and topped 7% in 2007. Despite
  these achievements, the government has failed to raise living
  standards for the average Egyptian, and has had to continue
  providing subsidies for basic necessities. The subsidies have
  contributed to a sizeable budget deficit - roughly 7.5% of GDP in
  2007 - and represent a significant drain on the economy. Foreign
  direct investment has increased significantly in the past two years,
  but the NAZIF government will need to continue its aggressive
  pursuit of reforms in order to sustain the spike in investment and
  growth and begin to improve economic conditions for the broader
  population. Egypt's export sectors - particularly natural gas - have
  bright prospects.

El Salvador
  The smallest country in Central America, El Salvador has
  the third largest economy, but growth has been modest in recent
  years. Robust growth in non-traditional exports have offset declines
  in the maquila exports, while remittances and external aid offset
  the trade deficit from high oil prices and strong import demand for
  consumer and intermediate goods. El Salvador leads the region in
  remittances per capita with inflows equivalent to nearly all export
  income. Implementation in 2006 of the Central America-Dominican
  Republic Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA), which El Salvador was the
  first to ratify, has strengthened an already positive export trend.
  With the adoption of the US dollar as its currency in 2001, El
  Salvador lost control over monetary policy and must concentrate on
  maintaining a disciplined fiscal policy. The current government has
  pursued economic diversification, with some success in promoting
  textile production, international port services, and tourism through
  tax incentives. It is committed to opening the economy to trade and
  investment, and has embarked on a wave of privatizations extending
  to telecom, electricity distribution, banking, and pension funds. In
  late 2006, the government and the Millennium Challenge Corporation
  signed a five-year, $461 million compact to stimulate economic
  growth and reduce poverty in the country's northern region through
  investments in education, public services, enterprise development,
  and transportation infrastructure.

Equatorial Guinea
  The discovery and exploitation of large oil
  reserves have contributed to dramatic economic growth in recent
  years. Forestry, farming, and fishing are also major components of
  GDP. Subsistence farming predominates. Although pre-independence
  Equatorial Guinea counted on cocoa production for hard currency
  earnings, the neglect of the rural economy under successive regimes
  has diminished potential for agriculture-led growth (the government
  has stated its intention to reinvest some oil revenue into
  agriculture). A number of aid programs sponsored by the World Bank
  and the IMF have been cut off since 1993, because of corruption and
  mismanagement. No longer eligible for concessional financing because
  of large oil revenues, the government has been trying to agree on a
  "shadow" fiscal management program with the World Bank and IMF.
  Government officials and their family members own most businesses.
  Undeveloped natural resources include titanium, iron ore, manganese,
  uranium, and alluvial gold. Growth remained strong in 2007, led by
  oil.

Eritrea
  Since independence from Ethiopia in 1993, Eritrea has faced
  the economic problems of a small, desperately poor country,
  accentuated by the recent implementation of restrictive economic
  policies. Eritrea has a command economy under the control of the
  sole political party, the People's Front for Democracy and Justice
  (PFDJ). Like the economies of many African nations, the economy is
  largely based on subsistence agriculture, with 80% of the population
  involved in farming and herding. The Ethiopian-Eritrea war in
  1998-2000 severely hurt Eritrea's economy. GDP growth fell to zero
  in 1999 and to -12.1% in 2000. The May 2000 Ethiopian offensive into
  northern Eritrea caused some $600 million in property damage and
  loss, including losses of $225 million in livestock and 55,000
  homes. The attack prevented planting of crops in Eritrea's most
  productive region, causing food production to drop by 62%. Even
  during the war, Eritrea developed its transportation infrastructure,
  asphalting new roads, improving its ports, and repairing war-damaged
  roads and bridges. Since the war ended, the government has
  maintained a firm grip on the economy, expanding the use of the
  military and party-owned businesses to complete Eritrea's
  development agenda. The government strictly controls the use of
  foreign currency, limiting access and availability. Few private
  enterprises remain in Eritrea. Eritrea's economy is heavily
  dependent on taxes paid by members of the diaspora. Erratic rainfall
  and the delayed demobilization of agriculturalists from the military
  continue to interfere with agricultural production, and Eritrea's
  recent harvests have not been able to meet the food needs of the
  country. The government continues to place its hope for additional
  revenue on the development of several international mining projects.
  Despite difficulties for international companies in working with the
  Eritrean government, a Canadian mining company signed a contract
  with the GSE in 2007 and plans to begin mineral extraction in 2010.
  Eritrea also anticipates opening a free trade zone at the port of
  Massawa in 2008. Eritrea's economic future depends upon its ability
  to master social problems such as illiteracy, unemployment, and low
  skills, and more importantly, on the government's willingness to
  support a true market economy.

Estonia
  Estonia, a 2004 European Union entrant, has a modern
  market-based economy and one of the highest per capita income levels
  in Central Europe. The economy benefits from strong electronics and
  telecommunications sectors and strong trade ties with Finland,
  Sweden, and Germany. The current government has pursued relatively
  sound fiscal policies, resulting in balanced budgets and low public
  debt. In 2007, however, a large current account deficit and rising
  inflation put pressure on Estonia's currency, which is pegged to the
  euro, highlighting the need for growth in export-generating
  industries.

Ethiopia
  Ethiopia's poverty-stricken economy is based on
  agriculture, accounting for almost half of GDP, 60% of exports, and
  80% of total employment. The agricultural sector suffers from
  frequent drought and poor cultivation practices. Coffee is critical
  to the Ethiopian economy with exports of some $350 million in 2006,
  but historically low prices have seen many farmers switching to qat
  to supplement income. The war with Eritrea in 1998-2000 and
  recurrent drought have buffeted the economy, in particular coffee
  production. In November 2001, Ethiopia qualified for debt relief
  from the Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative, and in
  December 2005 the IMF voted to forgive Ethiopia's debt to the body.
  Under Ethiopia's constitution, the state owns all land and provides
  long-term leases to the tenants; the system continues to hamper
  growth in the industrial sector as entrepreneurs are unable to use
  land as collateral for loans. Drought struck again late in 2002,
  leading to a 3.3% decline in GDP in 2003. Normal weather patterns
  helped agricultural and GDP growth recover during 2004-07.

European Union
  Internally, the EU is attempting to lower trade
  barriers, adopt a common currency, and move toward convergence of
  living standards. Internationally, the EU aims to bolster Europe's
  trade position and its political and economic power. Because of the
  great differences in per capita income among member states (from
  $7,000 to $69,000) and historic national animosities, the EU faces
  difficulties in devising and enforcing common policies. For example,
  since 2003 Germany and France have flouted the member states' treaty
  obligation to prevent their national budgets from running more than
  a 3% deficit. In 2004 and 2007, the EU admitted 10 and two
  countries, respectively, that are, in general, less advanced
  technologically and economically than the other 15. Eleven
  established EU member states introduced the euro as their common
  currency on 1 January 1999 (Greece did so two years later), but the
  UK, Sweden, and Denmark chose not to participate. Of the 12 most
  recent member states, only Slovenia (1 January 2007) and Cyprus and
  Malta (1 January 2008) have adopted the euro; the remaining nine are
  legally required to adopt the currency upon meeting EU's fiscal and
  monetary convergence criteria.

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  The economy was formerly based on
  agriculture, mainly sheep farming, but today fishing contributes the
  bulk of economic activity. In 1987, the government began selling
  fishing licenses to foreign trawlers operating within the Falkland
  Islands' exclusive fishing zone. These license fees total more than
  $40 million per year, which help support the island's health,
  education, and welfare system. Squid accounts for 75% of the fish
  taken. Dairy farming supports domestic consumption; crops furnish
  winter fodder. Exports feature shipments of high-grade wool to the
  UK and the sale of postage stamps and coins. The islands are now
  self-financing except for defense. The British Geological Survey
  announced a 200-mile oil exploration zone around the islands in
  1993, and early seismic surveys suggest substantial reserves capable
  of producing 500,000 barrels per day; to date, no exploitable site
  has been identified. An agreement between Argentina and the UK in
  1995 seeks to defuse licensing and sovereignty conflicts that would
  dampen foreign interest in exploiting potential oil reserves.
  Tourism, especially eco-tourism, is increasing rapidly, with about
  30,000 visitors in 2001. Another large source of income is interest
  paid on money the government has in the bank. The British military
  presence also provides a sizeable economic boost.

Faroe Islands
  The Faroese economy is dependent on fishing, which
  makes the economy vulnerable to price swings. Since 2003 the Faroese
  economy has picked up as a result of higher prices for fish and for
  housing. Unemployment is minimal and government finances are
  relatively sound. Oil finds close to the Islands give hope for
  economically recoverable deposits, which could eventually lay the
  basis for a more diversified economy and lessen dependence on Danish
  economic assistance. Aided by a substantial annual subsidy (about
  15% of GDP) from Denmark, the Faroese have a standard of living not
  far below the Danes and other Scandinavians.

Fiji
  Fiji, endowed with forest, mineral, and fish resources, is one
  of the most developed of the Pacific island economies, though still
  with a large subsistence sector. Sugar exports, remittances from
  Fijians working abroad, and a growing tourist industry - with
  400,000 to 500,000 tourists annually - are the major sources of
  foreign exchange. Fiji's sugar has special access to European Union
  markets, but will be harmed by the EU's decision to cut sugar
  subsidies. Sugar processing makes up one-third of industrial
  activity but is not efficient. Fiji's tourism industry was damaged
  by the December 2006 coup and is facing an uncertain recovery time.
  The coup has created a difficult business climate. Tourist arrivals
  for 2007 are estimated to be down almost 6%, with substantial job
  losses in the service sector. In July 2007 the Reserve Bank of Fiji
  announced the economy was expected to contract by 3.1% in 2007.
  Fiji's current account deficit reached 23% of GDP in 2006. The EU
  has suspended all aid until the interim government takes steps
  toward new elections. Long-term problems include low investment,
  uncertain land ownership rights, and the government's inability to
  manage its budget. Overseas remittances from Fijians working in
  Kuwait and Iraq have decreased significantly.

Finland
  Finland has a highly industrialized, largely free-market
  economy with per capita output roughly that of the UK, France,
  Germany, and Italy. Its key economic sector is manufacturing -
  principally the wood, metals, engineering, telecommunications, and
  electronics industries. Trade is important; exports equal nearly
  two-fifths of GDP. Finland excels in high-tech exports, e.g., mobile
  phones. Except for timber and several minerals, Finland depends on
  imports of raw materials, energy, and some components for
  manufactured goods. Because of the climate, agricultural development
  is limited to maintaining self-sufficiency in basic products.
  Forestry, an important export earner, provides a secondary
  occupation for the rural population. High unemployment remains a
  persistent problem. In 2007 Russia announced plans to impose high
  tariffs on raw timber exported to Finland. The Finnish pulp and
  paper industry will be threatened if these duties are put into place
  in 2008 and 2009, and the matter is now being handled by the
  European Union.

France
  France is in the midst of transition from a well-to-do modern
  economy that has featured extensive government ownership and
  intervention to one that relies more on market mechanisms. The
  government has partially or fully privatized many large companies,
  banks, and insurers, and has ceded stakes in such leading firms as
  Air France, France Telecom, Renault, and Thales. It maintains a
  strong presence in some sectors, particularly power, public
  transport, and defense industries. The telecommunications sector is
  gradually being opened to competition. France's leaders remain
  committed to a capitalism in which they maintain social equity by
  means of laws, tax policies, and social spending that reduce income
  disparity and the impact of free markets on public health and
  welfare. Widespread opposition to labor reform has in recent years
  hampered the government's ability to revitalize the economy. In
  2007, the government launched divisive labor reform efforts that
  will continue into 2008. France's tax burden remains one of the
  highest in Europe (nearly 50% of GDP in 2005). France brought the
  budget deficit within the eurozone's 3%-of-GDP limit for the first
  time in 2007 and has reduced unemployment to roughly 8%. With at
  least 75 million foreign tourists per year, France is the most
  visited country in the world and maintains the third largest income
  in the world from tourism.

French Polynesia
  Since 1962, when France stationed military
  personnel in the region, French Polynesia has changed from a
  subsistence agricultural economy to one in which a high proportion
  of the work force is either employed by the military or supports the
  tourist industry. With the halt of French nuclear testing in 1996,
  the military contribution to the economy fell sharply. Tourism
  accounts for about one-fourth of GDP and is a primary source of hard
  currency earnings. Other sources of income are pearl farming and
  deep-sea commercial fishing. The small manufacturing sector
  primarily processes agricultural products. The territory benefits
  substantially from development agreements with France aimed
  principally at creating new businesses and strengthening social
  services.

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  Economic activity is limited to
  servicing meteorological and geophysical research stations, military
  bases, and French and other fishing fleets. The fish catches landed
  on Iles Kerguelen by foreign ships are exported to France and
  Reunion.

Gabon
  Gabon enjoys a per capita income four times that of most of
  sub-Saharan African nations. but because of high income inequality,
  a large proportion of the population remains poor. Gabon depended on
  timber and manganese until oil was discovered offshore in the early
  1970s. The oil sector now accounts for 50% of GDP. Gabon continues
  to face fluctuating prices for its oil, timber, and manganese
  exports. Despite the abundance of natural wealth, poor fiscal
  management hobbles the economy. The devaluation of the CFA franc -
  its currency - by 50% in January 1994 sparked a one-time
  inflationary surge, to 35%; the rate dropped to 6% in 1996. The IMF
  provided a one-year standby arrangement in 1994-95, a three-year
  Enhanced Financing Facility (EFF) at near commercial rates beginning
  in late 1995, and stand-by credit of $119 million in October 2000.
  Those agreements mandated progress in privatization and fiscal
  discipline. France provided additional financial support in January
  1997 after Gabon met IMF targets for mid-1996. In 1997, an IMF
  mission to Gabon criticized the government for overspending on
  off-budget items, overborrowing from the central bank, and slipping
  on its schedule for privatization and administrative reform. The
  rebound of oil prices since 1999 have helped growth, but drops in
  production have hampered Gabon from fully realizing potential gains,
  and will continue to temper the gains for most of this decade. In
  December 2000, Gabon signed a new agreement with the Paris Club to
  reschedule its official debt. A follow-up bilateral repayment
  agreement with the US was signed in December 2001. Gabon signed a
  14-month Stand-By Arrangement with the IMF in May 2004, and received
  Paris Club debt rescheduling later that year. Short-term progress
  depends on an upbeat world economy and fiscal and other adjustments
  in line with IMF policies.

Gambia, The
  The Gambia has no confirmed mineral or natural resource
  deposits and has a limited agricultural base. About 75% of the
  population depends on crops and livestock for its livelihood.
  Small-scale manufacturing activity features the processing of
  peanuts, fish, and hides. Reexport trade normally constitutes a
  major segment of economic activity, but a 1999 government-imposed
  preshipment inspection plan, and instability of the Gambian dalasi
  (currency) have drawn some of the reexport trade away from The
  Gambia. The Gambia's natural beauty and proximity to Europe has made
  it one of the larger markets for tourism in West Africa. The
  government's 1998 seizure of the private peanut firm Alimenta
  eliminated the largest purchaser of Gambian groundnuts. Despite an
  announced program to begin privatizing key parastatals, no plans
  have been made public that would indicate that the government
  intends to follow through on its promises. Unemployment and
  underemployment rates remain extremely high; short-run economic
  progress depends on sustained bilateral and multilateral aid, on
  responsible government economic management, on continued technical
  assistance from the IMF and bilateral donors, and on expected growth
  in the construction sector.

Gaza Strip
  High population density, limited land access, and strict
  internal and external security controls have kept economic
  conditions in the Gaza Strip - the smaller of the two areas under
  the Palestinian Authority (PA)- even more degraded than in the West
  Bank. The beginning of the second intifada in September 2000 sparked
  an economic downturn, largely the result of Israeli closure
  policies; these policies, which were imposed to address security
  concerns in Israel, disrupted labor and trade access to and from the
  Gaza Strip. In 2001, and even more severely in 2003, Israeli
  military measures in PA areas resulted in the destruction of
  capital, the disruption of administrative structures, and widespread
  business closures. The Israeli withdrawal from the Gaza Strip in
  September 2005 offered some medium-term opportunities for economic
  growth, but continued Israeli-imposed crossings closures, which
  became more restrictive after Hamas violently took over the
  territory in June 2007, have resulted in widespread private sector
  layoffs and shortages of most goods.

Georgia
  Georgia's economy has sustained robust GDP growth of close
  to 10% in 2006 and 12% in 2007, based on strong inflows of foreign
  investment and robust government spending. However, a widening trade
  deficit and higher inflation are emerging risks to the economy.
  Areas of recent improvement include increasing foreign direct
  investment as well as growth in the construction, banking services
  and mining sectors. Georgia's main economic activities include the
  cultivation of agricultural products such as grapes, citrus fruits,
  and hazelnuts; mining of manganese and copper; and output of a small
  industrial sector producing alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages,
  metals, machinery, aircraft and chemicals. The country imports
  nearly all its needed supplies of natural gas and oil products. It
  has sizeable hydropower capacity, a growing component of its energy
  supplies. Despite the severe damage the economy suffered due to
  civil strife in the 1990s, Georgia, with the help of the IMF and
  World Bank, has made substantial economic gains since 2000,
  achieving positive GDP growth and curtailing inflation. Georgia's
  GDP growth neared 10% in 2006 and 2007 despite restrictions on
  commerce with Russia. Areas of recent improvement include increased
  foreign direct investment as well as growth in the construction,
  banking services, and mining sectors. In addition, the reinvigorated
  privatization process has met with success. However, a widening
  trade deficit and higher inflation are emerging risks to the
  economy. Georgia has suffered from a chronic failure to collect tax
  revenues; however, the new government is making progress and has
  reformed the tax code, improved tax administration, increased tax
  enforcement, and cracked down on corruption. Government revenues
  have increased nearly four fold since 2003. Due to improvements in
  customs and financial (tax) enforcement, smuggling is a declining
  problem. Georgia has overcome the chronic energy shortages of the
  past by renovating hydropower plants and by bringing newly available
  natural gas supplies from Azerbaijan. It also has an increased
  ability to pay for more expensive gas imports from Russia. The
  country is pinning its hopes for long-term growth on a determined
  effort to reduce regulation, taxes and corruption in order to
  attract foreign investment. The construction on the
  Baku-T'bilisi-Ceyhan oil pipeline, the Baku-T'bilisi-Erzerum gas
  pipeline, and the Kars-Akhalkalaki Railroad are part of a strategy
  to capitalize on Georgia's strategic location between Europe and
  Asia and develop its role as a transit point for gas, oil and other
  goods.

Germany
  Germany's affluent and technologically powerful economy -
  the fifth largest in the world in PPP terms - showed considerable
  improvement in 2007 with 2.6% growth. After a long period of
  stagnation with an average growth rate of 0.7% between 2001-05 and
  chronically high unemployment, stronger growth led to a considerable
  fall in unemployment to about 8% near the end of 2007. Among the
  most important reasons for Germany's high unemployment during the
  past decade were macroeconomic stagnation, the declining level of
  investment in plant and equipment, company restructuring, flat
  domestic consumption, structural rigidities in the labor market,
  lack of competition in the service sector, and high interest rates.
  The modernization and integration of the eastern German economy
  continues to be a costly long-term process, with annual transfers
  from west to east amounting to roughly $80 billion. The former
  government of Chancellor Gerhard SCHROEDER launched a comprehensive
  set of reforms of labor market and welfare-related institutions. The
  current government of Chancellor Angela MERKEL has initiated other
  reform measures, such as a gradual increase in the mandatory
  retirement age from 65 to 67 and measures to increase female
  participation in the labor market. Germany's aging population,
  combined with high chronic unemployment, has pushed social security
  outlays to a level exceeding contributions, but higher government
  revenues from the cyclical upturn in 2006-07 and a 3% rise in the
  value-added tax pushed Germany's budget deficit well below the EU's
  3% debt limit. Corporate restructuring and growing capital markets
  are setting the foundations that could help Germany meet the
  long-term challenges of European economic integration and
  globalization, although some economists continue to argue the need
  for change in inflexible labor and services markets. Growth may fall
  below 2% in 2008 as the strong euro, high oil prices, tighter credit
  markets, and slowing growth abroad take their toll.

Ghana
  Well endowed with natural resources, Ghana has roughly twice
  the per capita output of the poorest countries in West Africa. Even
  so, Ghana remains heavily dependent on international financial and
  technical assistance. Gold and cocoa production, and individual
  remittances, are major sources of foreign exchange. The domestic
  economy continues to revolve around agriculture, which accounts for
  about 35% of GDP and employs about 55% of the work force, mainly
  small landholders. Ghana opted for debt relief under the Heavily
  Indebted Poor Country (HIPC) program in 2002, and is also benefiting
  from the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative that took effect in
  2006. Thematic priorities under its current Growth and Poverty
  Reduction Strategy, which also provides the framework for
  development partner assistance, are: macroeconomic stability;
  private sector competitiveness; human resource development; and good
  governance and civic responsibility. Sound macro-economic management
  along with high prices for gold and cocoa helped sustain GDP growth
  in 2007. Ghana signed a Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC)
  Compact in 2006, which aims to assist in transforming Ghana's
  agricultural sector.

Gibraltar
  Self-sufficient Gibraltar benefits from an extensive
  shipping trade, offshore banking, and its position as an
  international conference center. The British military presence has
  been sharply reduced and now contributes about 7% to the local
  economy, compared with 60% in 1984. The financial sector, tourism
  (almost 5 million visitors in 1998), shipping services fees, and
  duties on consumer goods also generate revenue. The financial
  sector, the shipping sector, and tourism each contribute 25%-30% of
  GDP. Telecommunications accounts for another 10%. In recent years,
  Gibraltar has seen major structural change from a public to a
  private sector economy, but changes in government spending still
  have a major impact on the level of employment.

Greece
  Greece has a capitalist economy with the public sector
  accounting for about 40% of GDP and with per capita GDP at least 75%
  of the leading euro-zone economies. Tourism provides 15% of GDP.
  Immigrants make up nearly one-fifth of the work force, mainly in
  agricultural and unskilled jobs. Greece is a major beneficiary of EU
  aid, equal to about 3.3% of annual GDP. The Greek economy grew by
  nearly 4.0% per year between 2003 and 2007, due partly to
  infrastructural spending related to the 2004 Athens Olympic Games,
  and in part to an increased availability of credit, which has
  sustained record levels of consumer spending. Greece violated the
  EU's Growth and Stability Pact budget deficit criteria of no more
  than 3% of GDP from 2001 to 2006, but finally met that criteria in
  2007. Public debt, inflation, and unemployment are above the
  euro-zone average, but are falling. The Greek Government continues
  to grapple with cutting government spending, reducing the size of
  the public sector, and reforming the labor and pension systems, in
  the face of often vocal opposition from the country's powerful labor
  unions and the general public. The economy remains an important
  domestic political issue in Greece and, while the ruling New
  Democracy government has had some success in improving economic
  growth and reducing the budget deficit, Athens faces long-term
  challenges in its effort to continue its economic reforms,
  especially social security reform and privatization.

Greenland
  The economy remains critically dependent on exports of
  fish and a substantial subsidy from the Danish Government, which
  supplies about half of government revenues. The public sector,
  including publicly owned enterprises and the municipalities, plays
  the dominant role in the economy. Several interesting hydrocarbon
  and mineral exploration activities are ongoing. Press reports in
  early 2007 indicated that two international aluminum companies were
  considering building smelters in Greenland to take advantage of
  local hydropower potential. Tourism is the only sector offering any
  near-term potential, and even this is limited due to a short season
  and high costs. Air Greenland began summer-season direct flights to
  the US east coast in May 2007, potentially opening a major new
  tourism market.

Grenada
  Grenada relies on tourism as its main source of foreign
  exchange, especially since the construction of an international
  airport in 1985. Strong performances in construction and
  manufacturing, together with the development of an offshore
  financial industry, have also contributed to growth in national
  output. Grenada has rebounded from the devastating effects of
  Hurricanes Ivan (2004) and Emily (2005), but is now saddled with the
  debt burden from the rebuilding process. The agricultural sector,
  particularly nutmeg and cocoa cultivation, has gradually recovered,
  and the tourism sector has seen substantial increases in foreign
  direct investment as the regional share of the tourism market
  increases.

Guam
  The economy depends largely on US military spending and
  tourism. Total US grants, wage payments, and procurement outlays
  amounted to $1.3 billion in 2004. Over the past 30 years, the
  tourist industry has grown to become the largest income source
  following national defense. The Guam economy continues to experience
  expansion in both its tourism and military sectors.

Guatemala
  Guatemala is the most populous of the Central American
  countries with a GDP per capita roughly one-half that of Argentina,
  Brazil, and Chile. The agricultural sector accounts for about
  one-tenth of GDP, two-fifths of exports, and half of the labor
  force. Coffee, sugar, and bananas are the main products, with sugar
  exports benefiting from increased global demand for ethanol. The
  1996 signing of peace accords, which ended 36 years of civil war,
  removed a major obstacle to foreign investment, and Guatemala since
  then has pursued important reforms and macroeconomic stabilization.
  On 1 July 2006, the Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA)
  entered into force between the US and Guatemala and has since
  spurred increased investment in the export sector. The distribution
  of income remains highly unequal with about 56% of the population
  below the poverty line. Other ongoing challenges include increasing
  government revenues, negotiating further assistance from
  international donors, upgrading both government and private
  financial operations, curtailing drug trafficking and rampant crime,
  and narrowing the trade deficit. Given Guatemala's large expatriate
  community in the United States, it is the top remittance recipient
  in Central America, with inflows serving as a primary source of
  foreign income equivalent to nearly two-thirds of exports.

Guernsey
  Financial services - banking, fund management, insurance -
  account for about 23% of employment and about 55% of total income in
  this tiny, prosperous Channel Island economy. Tourism,
  manufacturing, and horticulture, mainly tomatoes and cut flowers,
  have been declining. Financial services, construction, retail, and
  the public sector have been growing. Light tax and death duties make
  Guernsey a popular tax haven. The evolving economic integration of
  the EU nations is changing the environment under which Guernsey
  operates.

Guinea
  Guinea possesses major mineral, hydropower, and agricultural
  resources, yet remains an underdeveloped nation. The country has
  almost half of the world's bauxite reserves and is the
  second-largest bauxite producer. The mining sector accounts for over
  70% of exports. Long-run improvements in government fiscal
  arrangements, literacy, and the legal framework are needed if the
  country is to move out of poverty. Investor confidence has been
  sapped by rampant corruption, a lack of electricity and other
  infrastructure, a lack of skilled workers, and the political
  uncertainty due to the failing health of President Lansana CONTE.
  Guinea is trying to reengage with the IMF and World Bank, which cut
  off most assistance in 2003, and is working closely with technical
  advisors from the U.S. Treasury Department, the World Bank and IMF,
  seeking to return to a fully funded program. Growth rose slightly in
  2006-07, primarily due to increases in global demand and commodity
  prices on world markets, but the standard of living fell. The Guinea
  franc depreciated sharply as the prices for basic necessities like
  food and fuel rose beyond the reach of most Guineans.
  Dissatisfaction with economic conditions prompted nationwide strikes
  in February and June 2006.

Guinea-Bissau
  One of the five poorest countries in the world,
  Guinea-Bissau depends mainly on farming and fishing. Cashew crops
  have increased remarkably in recent years, and the country now ranks
  sixth in cashew production. Guinea-Bissau exports fish and seafood
  along with small amounts of peanuts, palm kernels, and timber. Rice
  is the major crop and staple food. However, intermittent fighting
  between Senegalese-backed government troops and a military junta
  destroyed much of the country's infrastructure and caused widespread
  damage to the economy in 1998; the civil war led to a 28% drop in
  GDP that year, with partial recovery in 1999-2002. Before the war,
  trade reform and price liberalization were the most successful part
  of the country's structural adjustment program under IMF
  sponsorship. The tightening of monetary policy and the development
  of the private sector had also begun to reinvigorate the economy.
  Because of high costs, the development of petroleum, phosphate, and
  other mineral resources is not a near-term prospect. Offshore oil
  prospecting is underway in several sectors but has not yet led to
  commercially viable crude deposits. The inequality of income
  distribution is one of the most extreme in the world. The government
  and international donors continue to work out plans to forward
  economic development from a lamentably low base. In December 2003,
  the World Bank, IMF, and UNDP were forced to step in to provide
  emergency budgetary support in the amount of $107 million for 2004,
  representing over 80% of the total national budget. Government drift
  and indecision, however, resulted in continued low growth in
  2002-06. Higher raw material prices boosted growth to 3.7% in 2007.

Guyana
  The Guyanese economy exhibited moderate economic growth in
  2001-07, based on expansion in the agricultural and mining sectors,
  a more favorable atmosphere for business initiatives, a more
  realistic exchange rate, fairly low inflation, and the continued
  support of international organizations. Economic recovery since the
  2005 flood-related contraction has been buoyed by increases in
  remittances and foreign direct investment. Chronic problems include
  a shortage of skilled labor and a deficient infrastructure. The
  government is juggling a sizable external debt against the urgent
  need for expanded public investment. In March 2007, the
  Inter-American Development Bank, Guyana's principal donor, canceled
  Guyana's nearly $470 million debt, equivalent to nearly 48% of GDP.
  The bauxite mining sector should benefit in the near term from
  restructuring and partial privatization, and the state-owned sugar
  industry will conduct efficiency increasing modernizations. Export
  earnings from agriculture and mining have fallen sharply, while the
  import bill has risen, driven by higher energy prices. Guyana's
  entrance into the Caricom Single Market and Economy (CSME) in
  January 2006 will broaden the country's export market, primarily in
  the raw materials sector.

Haiti
  Haiti is the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere, with
  80% of the population living under the poverty line and 54% in
  abject poverty. Two-thirds of all Haitians depend on the
  agricultural sector, mainly small-scale subsistence farming, and
  remain vulnerable to damage from frequent natural disasters,
  exacerbated by the country's widespread deforestation. A
  macroeconomic program developed in 2005 with the help of the
  International Monetary Fund helped the economy grow 3.5% in 2007,
  the highest growth rate since 1999. US economic engagement under the
  Haitian Hemispheric Opportunity through Partnership Encouragement
  (HOPE) Act, passed in December 2006, has boosted the garment and
  automotive parts exports and investment by providing tariff-free
  access to the US. Haiti suffers from high inflation, a lack of
  investment because of insecurity and limited infrastructure, and a
  severe trade deficit. In 2005, Haiti paid its arrears to the World
  Bank, paving the way for reengagement with the Bank. The government
  relies on formal international economic assistance for fiscal
  sustainability. Remittances are the primary source of foreign
  exchange, equaling nearly a quarter of GDP and more than twice the
  earnings from exports.

Heard Island and McDonald Islands
  The islands have no indigenous
  economic activity, but the Australian Government allows limited
  fishing in the surrounding waters.

Holy See (Vatican City)
  This unique, noncommercial economy is
  supported financially by an annual contribution (known as Peter's
  Pence) from Roman Catholic dioceses throughout the world; by the
  sale of postage stamps, coins, medals, and tourist mementos; by fees
  for admission to museums; and by the sale of publications.
  Investments and real estate income also account for a sizable
  portion of revenue. The incomes and living standards of lay workers
  are comparable to those of counterparts who work in the city of Rome.

Honduras
  Honduras, the second poorest country in Central America and
  one of the poorest countries in the Western Hemisphere, with an
  extraordinarily unequal distribution of income and massive
  unemployment, is banking on expanded trade under the US-Central
  America Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA) and on debt relief under the
  Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative. Despite
  improvements in tax collections, the government's fiscal deficit is
  growing due to increases in current expenditures and financial
  losses from the state energy and telephone companies. Honduras is
  the fastest growing remittance destination in the region with
  inflows representing over a quarter of GDP, equivalent to nearly
  three-quarters of exports. The economy relies heavily on a narrow
  range of exports, notably bananas and coffee, making it vulnerable
  to natural disasters and shifts in commodity prices, however,
  investments in the maquila and non-traditional export sectors are
  slowly diversifying the economy. Growth remains dependent on the
  economy of the US, its largest trading partner, and on reduction of
  the high crime rate, as a means of attracting and maintaining
  investment.

Hong Kong
  Hong Kong has a free market economy highly dependent on
  international trade. In 2006, the total value of goods and services
  trade, including the sizable share of reexports, was equivalent to
  400% of GDP. The territory has become increasingly integrated with
  mainland China over the past few years through trade, tourism, and
  financial links. The mainland has long been Hong Kong's largest
  trading partner, accounting for 46% of Hong Kong's total trade by
  value in 2006. As a result of China's easing of travel restrictions,
  the number of mainland tourists to the territory has surged from 4.5
  million in 2001 to 13.6 million in 2006, when they outnumbered
  visitors from all other countries combined. Hong Kong has also
  established itself as the premier stock market for Chinese firms
  seeking to list abroad. Bolstered by several successful initial
  public offerings in early 2007, by September 2007 mainland companies
  accounted for one-third of the firms listed on the Hong Kong Stock
  Exchange, and more than half of the Exchange's market
  capitalization. During the past decade, as Hong Kong's manufacturing
  industry moved to the mainland, its service industry has grown
  rapidly and now accounts for 91% of the territory's GDP. Hong Kong's
  natural resources are limited, and food and raw materials must be
  imported. GDP growth averaged a strong 5% from 1989 to 2007, despite
  the economy suffering two recessions during the Asian financial
  crisis in 1997-98 and the global downturn in 2001-02. Hong Kong
  continues to link its currency closely to the US dollar, maintaining
  an arrangement established in 1983.

Hungary
  Hungary has made the transition from a centrally planned to
  a market economy, with a per capita income nearly two-thirds that of
  the EU-25 average. The private sector accounts for more than 80% of
  GDP. Foreign ownership of and investment in Hungarian firms are
  widespread, with cumulative foreign direct investment totaling more
  than $60 billion since 1989. Hungary issues investment-grade
  sovereign debt. International observers, however, have expressed
  concerns over Hungary's fiscal and current account deficits. In
  2007, Hungary eliminated a trade deficit that had persisted for
  several years. Inflation declined from 14% in 1998 to a low of 3.7%
  in 2006, but jumped to 7.8% in 2007. Unemployment has persisted
  above 6%. Hungary's labor force participation rate of 57% is one of
  the lowest in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
  Development (OECD). Germany is by far Hungary's largest economic
  partner. Policy challenges include cutting the public sector deficit
  to 4% of GDP by 2008, from about 6% in 2007. The government's
  austerity program of tax hikes and subsidy cuts has reduced
  Hungary's large budget deficit, but the reforms have dampened
  domestic consumption, slowing GDP growth to about 2% in 2007. The
  government will need to pass additional reforms to ensure the
  long-term stability of public finances. The government plans to
  eventually lower its public sector deficit to below 3% of GDP to
  adopt the euro.

Iceland
  Iceland's Scandinavian-type economy is basically
  capitalistic, yet with an extensive welfare system (including
  generous housing subsidies), low unemployment, and remarkably even
  distribution of income. In the absence of other natural resources
  (except for abundant geothermal power), the economy depends heavily
  on the fishing industry, which provides 70% of export earnings and
  employs 6% of the work force. The economy remains sensitive to
  declining fish stocks as well as to fluctuations in world prices for
  its main exports: fish and fish products, aluminum, and
  ferrosilicon. Substantial foreign investment in the aluminum and
  hydropower sectors has boosted economic growth which, nevertheless,
  has been volatile and characterized by recurrent imbalances.
  Government policies include reducing the current account deficit,
  limiting foreign borrowing, containing inflation, revising
  agricultural and fishing policies, and diversifying the economy. The
  government remains opposed to EU membership, primarily because of
  Icelanders' concern about losing control over their fishing
  resources. Iceland's economy has been diversifying into
  manufacturing and service industries in the last decade, and new
  developments in software production, biotechnology, and financial
  services are taking place. The tourism sector is also expanding,
  with the recent trends in ecotourism and whale watching. The 2006
  closure of the US military base at Keflavik had very little impact
  on the national economy; Iceland's low unemployment rate aided
  former base employees in finding alternate employment.

India
  India's diverse economy encompasses traditional village
  farming, modern agriculture, handicrafts, a wide range of modern
  industries, and a multitude of services. Services are the major
  source of economic growth, accounting for more than half of India's
  output with less than one third of its labor force. About
  three-fifths of the work force is in agriculture, leading the United
  Progressive Alliance (UPA) government to articulate an economic
  reform program that includes developing basic infrastructure to
  improve the lives of the rural poor and boost economic performance.
  The government has reduced controls on foreign trade and investment.
  Higher limits on foreign direct investment were permitted in a few
  key sectors, such as telecommunications. However, tariff spikes in
  sensitive categories, including agriculture, and incremental
  progress on economic reforms still hinder foreign access to India's
  vast and growing market. Privatization of government-owned
  industries remains stalled and continues to generate political
  debate; populist pressure from within the UPA government and from
  its Left Front allies continues to restrain needed initiatives. The
  economy has posted an average growth rate of more than 7% in the
  decade since 1997, reducing poverty by about 10 percentage points.
  India achieved 8.5% GDP growth in 2006, and again in 2007,
  significantly expanding production of manufactures. India is
  capitalizing on its large numbers of well-educated people skilled in
  the English language to become a major exporter of software services
  and software workers. Economic expansion has helped New Delhi
  continue to make progress in reducing its federal fiscal deficit.
  However, strong growth combined with easy consumer credit and a real
  estate boom fueled inflation concerns in 2006 and 2007, leading to a
  series of central bank interest rate hikes that have slowed credit
  growth and eased inflation concerns. The huge and growing population
  is the fundamental social, economic, and environmental problem.

Indian Ocean
  The Indian Ocean provides major sea routes connecting
  the Middle East, Africa, and East Asia with Europe and the Americas.
  It carries a particularly heavy traffic of petroleum and petroleum
  products from the oilfields of the Persian Gulf and Indonesia. Its
  fish are of great and growing importance to the bordering countries
  for domestic consumption and export. Fishing fleets from Russia,
  Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan also exploit the Indian Ocean, mainly
  for shrimp and tuna. Large reserves of hydrocarbons are being tapped
  in the offshore areas of Saudi Arabia, Iran, India, and western
  Australia. An estimated 40% of the world's offshore oil production
  comes from the Indian Ocean. Beach sands rich in heavy minerals and
  offshore placer deposits are actively exploited by bordering
  countries, particularly India, South Africa, Indonesia, Sri Lanka,
  and Thailand.

Indonesia
  Indonesia, a vast polyglot nation, has been undergoing
  significant economic reforms under President YUDHOYONO. Indonesia's
  debt-to-GDP ratio has been declining steadily, its foreign exchange
  reserves are at an all-time high of over $50 billion, and its stock
  market has been one of the three best performers in the world in
  2006 and 2007, as global investors sought out higher returns in
  emerging markets. The government has introduced significant reforms
  in the financial sector, including tax and customs reforms, the
  introduction of Treasury bills, and improved capital market
  supervision. Indonesia's new investment law, passed in March 2007,
  seeks to address some of the concerns of foreign and domestic
  investors. Indonesia still struggles with poverty and unemployment,
  inadequate infrastructure, corruption, a complex regulatory
  environment, and unequal resource distribution among regions.
  Indonesia has been slow to privatize over 100 state-owned
  enterprises, several of which have monopolies in key sectors. The
  non-bank financial sector, including pension funds and insurance,
  remains weak. Capital markets are underdeveloped. The high global
  price of oil in 2007 increased the cost of domestic fuel and
  electricity subsidies, and are contributing to concerns about higher
  food prices. Located on the Pacific "Ring of Fire" Indonesia remains
  vulnerable to volcanic and tectonic disasters. Significant progress
  has been made in rebuilding Aceh after the devastating December 2004
  tsunami, and the province now shows more economic activity than
  before the disaster. Unfortunately, Indonesia suffered new disasters
  in 2006 and early 2007 including: a major earthquake near
  Yogyakarta, an industrial accident in Sidoarjo, East Java that
  created a "mud volcano," a tsunami in South Java, and major flooding
  in Jakarta, all of which caused additional damages in the billions
  of dollars. Donors are assisting Indonesia with its disaster
  mitigation and early warning efforts.

Iran
  Iran's economy is marked by an inefficient state sector,
  reliance on the oil sector (which provides 85% of government
  revenues), and statist policies that create major distortions
  throughout. Most economic activity is controlled by the state.
  Private sector activity is typically small-scale workshops, farming,
  and services. President Mahmud AHMADI-NEJAD failed to make any
  notable progress in fulfilling the goals of the nation's latest
  five-year plan. A combination of price controls and subsidies,
  particularly on food and energy, continue to weigh down the economy,
  and administrative controls, widespread corruption, and other
  rigidities undermine the potential for private-sector-led growth. As
  a result of these inefficiencies, significant informal market
  activity flourishes and shortages are common. High oil prices in
  recent years have enabled Iran to amass nearly $70 billion in
  foreign exchange reserves. Yet this increased revenue has not eased
  economic hardships, which include double-digit unemployment and
  inflation - inflation climbed to 26% as of June 2008. The economy
  has seen only moderate growth. Iran's educated population, economic
  inefficiency and insufficient investment - both foreign and domestic
  - have prompted an increasing number of Iranians to seek employment
  overseas, resulting in significant "brain drain."

Iraq
  Iraq's economy is dominated by the oil sector, which has
  traditionally provided about 95% of foreign exchange earnings.
  Although looting, insurgent attacks, and sabotage have undermined
  economy rebuilding efforts, economic activity is beginning to pick
  up in areas recently secured by the US military surge. Oil exports
  are around levels seen before Operation Iraqi Freedom, and total
  government revenues have benefited from high oil prices. Despite
  political uncertainty, Iraq is making some progress in building the
  institutions needed to implement economic policy and has negotiated
  a debt reduction agreement with the Paris Club and a new Stand-By
  Arrangement with the IMF. Iraq has received pledges for $13.5
  billion in foreign aid for 2004-07 from outside of the US, more than
  $33 billion in total pledges. The International Compact with Iraq
  was established in May 2007 to integrate Iraq into the regional and
  global economy, and the Iraqi government is seeking to pass laws to
  strengthen its economy. This legislation includes a hydrocarbon law
  to establish a modern legal framework to allow Iraq to develop its
  resources and a revenue sharing law to equitably divide oil revenues
  within the nation, although both are still bogged down in
  discussions. The Central Bank has been successful in controlling
  inflation through appreciation of the dinar against the US dollar.
  Reducing corruption and implementing structural reforms, such as
  bank restructuring and developing the private sector, will be key to
  Iraq's economic success.

Ireland
  Ireland is a small, modern, trade-dependent economy with
  growth averaging 6% in 1995-2007. Agriculture, once the most
  important sector, is now dwarfed by industry and services. Although
  the exports sector, dominated by foreign multinationals, remains a
  key component of Ireland's economy, construction has most recently
  fueled economic growth along with strong consumer spending and
  business investment. Property prices have risen more rapidly in
  Ireland in the decade up to 2006 than in any other developed world
  economy. Per capita GDP is 40% above that of the four big European
  economies and the second highest in the EU behind Luxembourg, and in
  2007 surpassed that of the United States. The Irish Government has
  implemented a series of national economic programs designed to curb
  price and wage inflation, invest in infrastructure, increase labor
  force skills, and promote foreign investment. A slowdown in the
  property market, more intense global competition, and increased
  costs, however, have compelled government economists to lower
  Ireland's growth forecast slightly for 2008. Ireland joined in
  circulating the euro on 1 January 2002 along with 11 other EU
  nations.

Isle of Man
  Offshore banking, manufacturing, and tourism are key
  sectors of the economy. The government offers incentives to
  high-technology companies and financial institutions to locate on
  the island; this has paid off in expanding employment opportunities
  in high-income industries. As a result, agriculture and fishing,
  once the mainstays of the economy, have declined in their shares of
  GDP. The Isle of Man also attracts online gambling sites and the
  film industry. Trade is mostly with the UK. The Isle of Man enjoys
  free access to EU markets.

Israel
  Israel has a technologically advanced market economy with
  substantial, though diminishing, government participation. It
  depends on imports of crude oil, grains, raw materials, and military
  equipment. Despite limited natural resources, Israel has intensively
  developed its agricultural and industrial sectors over the past 20
  years. Israel imports substantial quantities of grain but is largely
  self-sufficient in other agricultural products. Cut diamonds,
  high-technology equipment, and agricultural products (fruits and
  vegetables) are the leading exports. Israel usually posts sizable
  trade deficits, which are covered by large transfer payments from
  abroad and by foreign loans. Roughly half of the government's
  external debt is owed to the US, its major source of economic and
  military aid. Israel's GDP, after contracting slightly in 2001 and
  2002 due to the Palestinian conflict and troubles in the
  high-technology sector, has grown by about 5% per year since 2003.
  The economy grew an estimated 5.4% in 2007, the fastest pace since
  2000. The government's prudent fiscal policy and structural reforms
  over the past few years have helped to induce strong foreign
  investment, tax revenues, and private consumption, setting the
  economy on a solid growth path.

Italy
  Italy has a diversified industrial economy with roughly the
  same total and per capita output as France and the UK. This
  capitalistic economy remains divided into a developed industrial
  north, dominated by private companies, and a less-developed,
  welfare-dependent, agricultural south, with 20% unemployment. Most
  raw materials needed by industry and more than 75% of energy
  requirements are imported. Over the past decade, Italy has pursued a
  tight fiscal policy in order to meet the requirements of the
  Economic and Monetary Unions and has benefited from lower interest
  and inflation rates. The current government has enacted numerous
  short-term reforms aimed at improving competitiveness and long-term
  growth. Italy has moved slowly, however, on implementing needed
  structural reforms, such as lightening the high tax burden and
  overhauling Italy's rigid labor market and over-generous pension
  system, because of the current economic slowdown and opposition from
  labor unions. But the leadership faces a severe economic constraint:
  Italy's official debt remains above 100% of GDP, and the government
  has found it difficult to bring the budget deficit down to a level
  that would allow a rapid decrease in that debt. The economy
  continues to grow by less than the euro-zone average and growth is
  expected to decelerate from 1.9% in 2006 and 2007 to under 1.5% in
  2008 as the euro-zone and world economies slow.

Jamaica
  The Jamaican economy is heavily dependent on services, which
  now account for more than 60% of GDP. The country continues to
  derive most of its foreign exchange from tourism, remittances, and
  bauxite/alumina. Remittances account for nearly 20% of GDP and are
  equivalent to tourism revenues. Jamaica's economy, already saddled
  with a record of sluggish growth, will suffer an economic setback
  from damages caused by Hurricane Dean in August 2007. The economy
  faces serious long-term problems: high but declining interest rates,
  increased foreign competition, exchange rate instability, a sizable
  merchandise trade deficit, large-scale unemployment and
  underemployment, and a debt-to-GDP ratio of 135%. Jamaica's onerous
  debt burden - the fourth highest per capita - is the result of
  government bailouts to ailing sectors of the economy, most notably
  the financial sector in the mid-to-late 1990s. Inflation also has
  declined, standing at about 7% at the end of 2007. High unemployment
  exacerbates the serious crime problem, including gang violence that
  is fueled by the drug trade. The GOLDING administration faces the
  difficult prospect of having to achieve fiscal discipline in order
  to maintain debt payments while simultaneously attacking a serious
  and growing crime problem that is hampering economic growth.

Jan Mayen
  Jan Mayen is a volcanic island with no exploitable natural
  resources. Economic activity is limited to providing services for
  employees of Norway's radio and meteorological stations on the
  island.

Japan
  Government-industry cooperation, a strong work ethic, mastery
  of high technology, and a comparatively small defense allocation (1%
  of GDP) helped Japan advance with extraordinary rapidity to the rank
  of second most technologically powerful economy in the world after
  the US and the third-largest economy in the world after the US and
  China, measured on a purchasing power parity (PPP) basis. One
  notable characteristic of the economy has been how manufacturers,
  suppliers, and distributors have worked together in closely-knit
  groups called keiretsu. A second basic feature has been the
  guarantee of lifetime employment for a substantial portion of the
  urban labor force. Both features have now eroded. Japan's industrial
  sector is heavily dependent on imported raw materials and fuels. The
  tiny agricultural sector is highly subsidized and protected, with
  crop yields among the highest in the world. Usually self sufficient
  in rice, Japan must import about 55% of its food on a caloric basis.
  Japan maintains one of the world's largest fishing fleets and
  accounts for nearly 15% of the global catch. For three decades,
  overall real economic growth had been spectacular - a 10% average in
  the 1960s, a 5% average in the 1970s, and a 4% average in the 1980s.
  Growth slowed markedly in the 1990s, averaging just 1.7%, largely
  because of the after effects of overinvestment and an asset price
  bubble during the late 1980s that required a protracted period of
  time for firms to reduce excess debt, capital, and labor. From 2000
  to 2001, government efforts to revive economic growth proved short
  lived and were hampered by the slowing of the US, European, and
  Asian economies. In 2002-07, growth improved and the lingering fears
  of deflation in prices and economic activity lessened, leading the
  central bank to raise interest rates to 0.25% in July 2006, up from
  the near 0% rate of the six years prior, and to 0.50% in February
  2007. In addition, the 10-year privatization of Japan Post, which
  has functioned not only as the national postal delivery system but
  also, through its banking and insurance facilities as Japan's
  largest financial institution, was completed in October 2007,
  marking a major milestone in the process of structural reform.
  Nevertheless, Japan's huge government debt, which totals 182% of
  GDP, and the aging of the population are two major long-run
  problems. Some fear that a rise in taxes could endanger the current
  economic recovery. Debate also continues on the role of and effects
  of reform in restructuring the economy, particularly with respect to
  increasing income disparities.

Jersey
  Jersey's economy is based on international financial
  services, agriculture, and tourism. In 2005 the finance sector
  accounted for about 50% of the island's output. Potatoes,
  cauliflower, tomatoes, and especially flowers are important export
  crops, shipped mostly to the UK. The Jersey breed of dairy cattle is
  known worldwide and represents an important export income earner.
  Milk products go to the UK and other EU countries. Tourism accounts
  for one-quarter of GDP. In recent years, the government has
  encouraged light industry to locate in Jersey, with the result that
  an electronics industry has developed alongside the traditional
  manufacturing of knitwear. All raw material and energy requirements
  are imported, as well as a large share of Jersey's food needs. Light
  taxes and death duties make the island a popular tax haven. Living
  standards come close to those of the UK.

Jordan
  Jordan is a small Arab country with insufficient supplies of
  water, oil, and other natural resources. Poverty, unemployment, and
  inflation are fundamental problems, but King ABDALLAH II, since
  assuming the throne in 1999, has undertaken some broad economic
  reforms in a long-term effort to improve living standards. Since
  Jordan's graduation from its most recent IMF program in 2002, Amman
  has continued to follow IMF guidelines, practicing careful monetary
  policy, making substantial headway with privatization, and opening
  the trade regime. Jordan's exports have significantly increased
  under the free trade accord with the US and Jordanian Qualifying
  Industrial Zones (QIZ), which allow Jordan to export goods duty free
  to the US. In 2006, Jordan reduced its debt-to-GDP ratio
  significantly. These measures have helped improve productivity and
  have made Jordan more attractive for foreign investment. Before the
  US-led war in Iraq, Jordan imported most of its oil from Iraq. Since
  2003, however, Jordan has been more dependent on oil from other Gulf
  nations. The government ended subsidies for petroleum and other
  consumer goods in 2008 in an effort to control the budget. The main
  challenges facing Jordan are reducing dependence on foreign grants,
  reducing the budget deficit, attracting investments, and creating
  jobs.

Kazakhstan
  Kazakhstan, the largest of the former Soviet republics in
  territory, excluding Russia, possesses enormous fossil fuel reserves
  and plentiful supplies of other minerals and metals. It also has a
  large agricultural sector featuring livestock and grain.
  Kazakhstan's industrial sector rests on the extraction and
  processing of these natural resources. The breakup of the USSR in
  December 1991 and the collapse in demand for Kazakhstan's
  traditional heavy industry products resulted in a short-term
  contraction of the economy, with the steepest annual decline
  occurring in 1994. In 1995-97, the pace of the government program of
  economic reform and privatization quickened, resulting in a
  substantial shifting of assets into the private sector. Kazakhstan
  enjoyed double-digit growth in 2000-01 - 8% or more per year in
  2002-07 - thanks largely to its booming energy sector, but also to
  economic reform, good harvests, and foreign investment. Inflation,
  however, jumped to more than 10% in 2007. In the energy sector, the
  opening of the Caspian Consortium pipeline in 2001, from western
  Kazakhstan's Tengiz oilfield to the Black Sea, substantially raised
  export capacity. In 2006 Kazakhstan completed the Atasu-Alashankou
  portion of an oil pipeline to China that is planned in future
  construction to extend from the country's Caspian coast eastward to
  the Chinese border. The country has embarked upon an industrial
  policy designed to diversify the economy away from overdependence on
  the oil sector by developing its manufacturing potential. The policy
  aims to reduce the influence of foreign investment and foreign
  personnel. The government has engaged in several disputes with
  foreign oil companies over the terms of production agreements;
  tensions continue. Upward pressure on the local currency continued
  in 2007 due to massive oil-related foreign-exchange inflows. Aided
  by strong growth and foreign exchange earnings, Kazakhstan aspires
  to become a regional financial center and has created a banking
  system comparable to those in Central Europe.

Kenya
  The regional hub for trade and finance in East Africa, Kenya
  has been hampered by corruption and by reliance upon several primary
  goods whose prices have remained low. In 1997, the IMF suspended
  Kenya's Enhanced Structural Adjustment Program due to the
  government's failure to maintain reforms and curb corruption. A
  severe drought from 1999 to 2000 compounded Kenya's problems,
  causing water and energy rationing and reducing agricultural output.
  As a result, GDP contracted by 0.2% in 2000. The IMF, which had
  resumed loans in 2000 to help Kenya through the drought, again
  halted lending in 2001 when the government failed to institute
  several anticorruption measures. Despite the return of strong rains
  in 2001, weak commodity prices, endemic corruption, and low
  investment limited Kenya's economic growth to 1.2%. Growth lagged at
  1.1% in 2002 because of erratic rains, low investor confidence,
  meager donor support, and political infighting up to the elections.
  In the key December 2002 elections, Daniel Arap MOI's 24-year-old
  reign ended, and a new opposition government took on the formidable
  economic problems facing the nation. After some early progress in
  rooting out corruption and encouraging donor support, the KIBAKI
  government was rocked by high-level graft scandals in 2005 and 2006.
  In 2006 the World Bank and IMF delayed loans pending action by the
  government on corruption. The international financial institutions
  and donors have since resumed lending, despite little action on the
  government's part to deal with corruption. The scandals have not
  weighed down growth, with estimated real GDP growth at more than 6
  percent in 2007.

Kiribati
  A remote country of 33 scattered coral atolls, Kiribati has
  few natural resources. Commercially viable phosphate deposits were
  exhausted at the time of independence from the UK in 1979. Copra and
  fish now represent the bulk of production and exports. The economy
  has fluctuated widely in recent years. Economic development is
  constrained by a shortage of skilled workers, weak infrastructure,
  and remoteness from international markets. Tourism provides more
  than one-fifth of GDP. Private sector initiatives and a financial
  sector are in the early stages of development. Foreign financial aid
  from UK, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, and China equals more than
  10% of GDP. Remittances from seamen on merchant ships abroad account
  for more than $5 million each year. Kiribati receives around $15
  million annually for the government budget from an Australian trust
  fund.

Korea, North
  North Korea, one of the world's most centrally directed
  and least open economies, faces chronic economic problems.
  Industrial capital stock is nearly beyond repair as a result of
  years of underinvestment and shortages of spare parts. Industrial
  and power output have declined in parallel from pre-1990 levels. Due
  in part to severe summer flooding followed by dry weather conditions
  in the fall of 2006, the nation suffered its 13th year of food
  shortages because of on-going systemic problems including a lack of
  arable land, collective farming practices, and persistent shortages
  of tractors and fuel. During the summer of 2007, severe flooding
  again occurred. Large-scale international food aid deliveries have
  allowed the people of North Korea to escape widespread starvation
  since famine threatened in 1995, but the population continues to
  suffer from prolonged malnutrition and poor living conditions.
  Large-scale military spending draws off resources needed for
  investment and civilian consumption. Since 2002, the government has
  formalized an arrangement whereby private "farmers' markets" were
  allowed to begin selling a wider range of goods. It also permitted
  some private farming on an experimental basis in an effort to boost
  agricultural output. In October 2005, the government tried to
  reverse some of these policies by forbidding private sales of grains
  and reinstituting a centralized food rationing system. By December
  2005, the government terminated most international humanitarian
  assistance operations in North Korea (calling instead for
  developmental assistance only) and restricted the activities of
  remaining international and non-governmental aid organizations such
  as the World Food Program. External food aid now comes primarily
  from China and South Korea in the form of grants and long-term
  concessional loans. During the October 2007 summit, South Korea also
  agreed to develop some of North Korea's infrastructure and natural
  resources and light industry. Firm political control remains the
  Communist government's overriding concern, which will likely inhibit
  the loosening of economic regulations.

Korea, South
  Since the 1960s, South Korea has achieved an incredible
  record of growth and integration into the high-tech modern world
  economy. Four decades ago, GDP per capita was comparable with levels
  in the poorer countries of Africa and Asia. In 2004, South Korea
  joined the trillion dollar club of world economies. Today its GDP
  per capita is roughly the same as that of Greece and Spain. This
  success was achieved by a system of close government/business ties
  including directed credit, import restrictions, sponsorship of
  specific industries, and a strong labor effort. The government
  promoted the import of raw materials and technology at the expense
  of consumer goods and encouraged savings and investment over
  consumption. The Asian financial crisis of 1997-98 exposed
  longstanding weaknesses in South Korea's development model including
  high debt/equity ratios, massive foreign borrowing, and an
  undisciplined financial sector. GDP plunged by 6.9% in 1998, then
  recovered by 9.5% in 1999 and 8.5% in 2000. Growth fell back to 3.3%
  in 2001 because of the slowing global economy, falling exports, and
  the perception that much-needed corporate and financial reforms had
  stalled. Led by consumer spending and exports, growth in 2002 was an
  impressive 7%, despite anemic global growth. Between 2003 and 2007,
  growth moderated to about 4-5% annually. A downturn in consumer
  spending was offset by rapid export growth. Moderate inflation, low
  unemployment, and an export surplus in 2007 characterize this solid
  economy, but inflation and unemployment are increasing in the face
  of rising oil prices.

Kosovo
  Over the past few years Kosovo's economy has shown
  significant progress in transitioning to a market-based system, but
  it is still highly dependent on the international community and the
  diaspora for financial and technical assistance. Remittances from
  the diaspora - located mainly in Germany and Switzerland - account
  for about 30% of GDP. Kosovo's citizens are the poorest in Europe
  with an average annual per capita income of only $1800 - about
  one-third the level of neighboring Albania. Unemployment - at more
  than 40% of the population - is a severe problem that encourages
  outward migration. Most of Kosovo's population lives in rural towns
  outside of the capital, Pristina. Inefficient, near-subsistence
  farming is common - the result of small plots, limited
  mechanization, and lack of technical expertise. Economic growth is
  largely driven by the private sector - mostly small-scale retail
  businesses. With international assistance, Kosovo has been able to
  privatize 50% of its state-owned enterprises (SOEs) by number, and
  over 90% of SOEs by value. Minerals and metals - including lignite,
  lead, zinc, nickel, chrome, aluminum, magnesium, and a wide variety
  of construction materials - once formed the backbone of industry,
  but output has declined because investment has been insufficient to
  replace ageing Eastern Bloc equipment. Technical and financial
  problems in the power sector also impedes industrial development.
  The US has worked with the World Bank to prepare a commercial tender
  for the development of new power generating and mining capacity. The
  official currency of Kosovo is the euro, but the Serbian dinar is
  also used in the Serb enclaves. Kosovo's tie to the euro has helped
  keep inflation low. Kosovo has maintained a budget surplus as a
  result of efficient tax collection and inefficient budget execution.
  While maintaining ultimate oversight, UNMIK continues to work with
  the EU and with Kosovo's government to accelerate economic growth,
  lower unemployment, and attract foreign investment. In order to help
  integrate Kosovo into regional economic structures, UNMIK signed (on
  behalf of Kosovo) its accession to the Central Europe Free Trade
  Area (CEFTA) in 2006. In February 2008, UNMIK also represented
  Kosovo at the newly established Regional Cooperation Council (RCC).

Kuwait
  Kuwait is a small, rich, relatively open economy with
  self-reported crude oil reserves of about 104 billion barrels - 10%
  of world reserves. Petroleum accounts for nearly half of GDP, 95% of
  export revenues, and 80% of government income. High oil prices in
  recent years have helped build Kuwait's budget and trade surpluses
  and foreign reserves. As a result of this positive fiscal situation,
  the need for economic reforms is less urgent and the government has
  not earnestly pushed through new initiatives. Despite its vast oil
  reserves, Kuwait experienced power outages during the summer months
  in 2006 and 2007 because demand exceeded power generating capacity.
  Power outages are likely to worsen, given its high population growth
  rates, unless the government can increase generating capacity. In
  May 2007 Kuwait changed its currency peg from the US dollar to a
  basket of currencies in order to curb inflation and to reduce its
  vulnerability to external shocks.

Kyrgyzstan
  Kyrgyzstan is a poor, mountainous country with a
  predominantly agricultural economy. Cotton, tobacco, wool, and meat
  are the main agricultural products, although only tobacco and cotton
  are exported in any quantity. Industrial exports include gold,
  mercury, uranium, natural gas, and electricity. Following
  independence, Kyrgyzstan was progressive in carrying out market
  reforms such as an improved regulatory system and land reform.
  Kyrgyzstan was the first Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS)
  country to be accepted into the World Trade Organization. Much of
  the government's stock in enterprises has been sold. Drops in
  production had been severe after the breakup of the Soviet Union in
  December 1991, but by mid-1995, production began to recover and
  exports began to increase. The economy is heavily weighted toward
  gold export and a drop in output at the main Kumtor gold mine
  sparked a 0.5% decline in GDP in 2002 and a 0.6% decline in 2005.
  GDP grew more than 6% in 2007, partly due to higher gold prices
  internationally. The government made steady strides in controlling
  its substantial fiscal deficit, nearly closing the gap between
  revenues and expenditures in 2006, before boosting expenditures more
  than 20% in 2007. The government and international financial
  institutions have been engaged in a comprehensive medium-term
  poverty reduction and economic growth strategy. In 2005, Bishkek
  agreed to pursue much-needed tax reform and, in 2006, became
  eligible for the heavily indebted poor countries (HIPC) initiative.
  Progress fighting corruption, further restructuring of domestic
  industry, and success in attracting foreign investment are keys to
  future growth.

Laos
  The government of Laos, one of the few remaining one-party
  Communist states, began decentralizing control and encouraging
  private enterprise in 1986. The results, starting from an extremely
  low base, were striking - growth averaged 6% per year in 1988-2007
  except during the short-lived drop caused by the Asian financial
  crisis beginning in 1997. Despite this high growth rate, Laos
  remains a country with a underdeveloped infrastructure, particularly
  in rural areas. It has no railroads, a rudimentary road system, and
  limited external and internal telecommunications, though the
  government is sponsoring major improvements in the road system with
  support from Japan and China. Electricity is available in urban
  areas and in most rural districts. Subsistence agriculture,
  dominated by rice, accounts for about 40% of GDP and provides 80% of
  total employment. The economy will continue to benefit from aid from
  international donors and from foreign investment in hydropower and
  mining. Construction will be another strong economic driver,
  especially as hydroelectric dam and road projects gain steam.
  Several policy changes since 2004 may help spur growth. In late
  2004, Laos gained Normal Trade Relations status with the US,
  allowing Laos-based producers to benefit from lower tariffs on
  exports. Laos is taking steps to join the World Trade Organization
  in the next few years; the resulting trade policy reforms will
  improve the business environment. On the fiscal side, a value-added
  tax (VAT) regime, slated to begin in 2008, should help streamline
  the government's inefficient tax system.

Latvia
  Latvia's economy experienced GDP growth of more than 10% per
  year during 2006-07. The majority of companies, banks, and real
  estate have been privatized, although the state still holds sizable
  stakes in a few large enterprises. Latvia officially joined the
  World Trade Organization in February 1999. EU membership, a top
  foreign policy goal, came in May 2004. The current account deficit -
  more than 22% of GDP in 2007 - and inflation - at nearly 10% per
  year - remain major concerns.

Lebanon
  The 1975-90 civil war seriously damaged Lebanon's economic
  infrastructure, cut national output by half, and all but ended
  Lebanon's position as a Middle Eastern entrepot and banking hub. In
  the years since, Lebanon has rebuilt much of its war-torn physical
  and financial infrastructure by borrowing heavily - mostly from
  domestic banks. In an attempt to reduce the ballooning national
  debt, the Rafiq HARIRI government in the 1990s began an austerity
  program, reining in government expenditures, increasing revenue
  collection, and privatizing state enterprises, but economic and
  financial reform initiatives stalled and public debt continued to
  grow despite receipt of more than $2 billion in bilateral assistance
  at the 2002 Paris II Donors Conference. The Israeli-Hizballah
  conflict in July-August 2006 caused an estimated $3.6 billion in
  infrastructure damage, and prompted international donors to pledge
  nearly $1 billion in recovery and reconstruction assistance. Donors
  met again in January 2007 at the Paris III Donor Conference and
  pledged more than $7.5 billion to Lebanon for development projects
  and budget support, conditioned on progress on Beirut's fiscal
  reform and privatization program. An 18-month political stalemate
  and sporadic sectarian and political violence hampered economic
  activity, particularly tourism, retail sales, and investment, until
  a new government was formed in July 2008.

Lesotho
  Small, landlocked, and mountainous, Lesotho relies on
  remittances from miners employed in South Africa and customs duties
  from the Southern Africa Customs Union for the majority of
  government revenue. However, the government has recently
  strengthened its tax system to reduce dependency on customs duties.
  Completion of a major hydropower facility in January 1998 permitted
  the sale of water to South Africa and generated royalties for
  Lesotho. Lesotho produces about 90% of its own electrical power
  needs. As the number of mineworkers has declined steadily over the
  past several years, a small manufacturing base has developed based
  on farm products that support the milling, canning, leather, and
  jute industries, as well as a rapidly expanding apparel-assembly
  sector. The latter has grown significantly mainly due to Lesotho
  qualifying for the trade benefits contained in the Africa Growth and
  Opportunity Act. The economy is still primarily based on subsistence
  agriculture, especially livestock, although drought has decreased
  agricultural activity. The extreme inequality in the distribution of
  income remains a major drawback. Lesotho has signed an Interim
  Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility with the IMF. In July 2007,
  Lesotho signed a Millennium Challenge Account Compact with the US
  worth $362.5 million.

Liberia
  Civil war and government mismanagement destroyed much of
  Liberia's economy, especially the infrastructure in and around the
  capital, Monrovia. Many businesses fled the country, taking capital
  and expertise with them, but with the conclusion of fighting and the
  installation of a democratically-elected government in 2006, some
  have returned. Richly endowed with water, mineral resources,
  forests, and a climate favorable to agriculture, Liberia had been a
  producer and exporter of basic products - primarily raw timber and
  rubber. Local manufacturing, mainly foreign owned, had been small in
  scope. President JOHNSON SIRLEAF, a Harvard-trained banker and
  administrator, has taken steps to reduce corruption, build support
  from international donors, and encourage private investment.
  Embargos on timber and diamond exports have been lifted, opening new
  sources of revenue for the government. The reconstruction of
  infrastructure and the raising of incomes in this ravaged economy
  will largely depend on generous financial and technical assistance
  from donor countries and foreign investment in key sectors, such as
  infrastructure and power generation.

Libya
  The Libyan economy depends primarily upon revenues from the
  oil sector, which contribute about 95% of export earnings, about
  one-quarter of GDP, and 60% of public sector wages. Substantial
  revenues from the energy sector coupled with a small population give
  Libya one of the highest per capita GDPs in Africa, but little of
  this income flows down to the lower orders of society. Libyan
  officials in the past five years have made progress on economic
  reforms as part of a broader campaign to reintegrate the country
  into the international fold. This effort picked up steam after UN
  sanctions were lifted in September 2003 and as Libya announced in
  December 2003 that it would abandon programs to build weapons of
  mass destruction. Almost all US unilateral sanctions against Libya
  were removed in April 2004, helping Libya attract more foreign
  direct investment, mostly in the energy sector. Libyan oil and gas
  licensing rounds continue to draw high international interest; the
  National Oil Company set a goal of nearly doubling oil production to
  3 million bbl/day by 2015. Libya faces a long road ahead in
  liberalizing the socialist-oriented economy, but initial steps -
  including applying for WTO membership, reducing some subsidies, and
  announcing plans for privatization - are laying the groundwork for a
  transition to a more market-based economy. The non-oil manufacturing
  and construction sectors, which account for more than 20% of GDP,
  have expanded from processing mostly agricultural products to
  include the production of petrochemicals, iron, steel, and aluminum.
  Climatic conditions and poor soils severely limit agricultural
  output, and Libya imports about 75% of its food. Libya's primary
  agricultural water source remains the Great Manmade River Project,
  but significant resources are being invested in desalinization
  research to meet growing water demands.

Liechtenstein
  Despite its small size and limited natural resources,
  Liechtenstein has developed into a prosperous, highly
  industrialized, free-enterprise economy with a vital financial
  service sector and living standards on a par with its large European
  neighbors. The Liechtenstein economy is widely diversified with a
  large number of small businesses. Low business taxes - the maximum
  tax rate is 20% - and easy incorporation rules have induced many
  holding or so-called letter box companies to establish nominal
  offices in Liechtenstein, providing 30% of state revenues. The
  country participates in a customs union with Switzerland and uses
  the Swiss franc as its national currency. It imports more than 90%
  of its energy requirements. Liechtenstein has been a member of the
  European Economic Area (an organization serving as a bridge between
  the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) and the EU) since May
  1995. The government is working to harmonize its economic policies
  with those of an integrated Europe.

Lithuania
  Lithuania, the Baltic state that has conducted the most
  trade with Russia, has grown rapidly since rebounding from the 1998
  Russian financial crisis. Unemployment fell to 3.2% in 2007 while
  wages continued to grow at double digit rates, contributing to
  rising inflation. Exports and imports also grew strongly, and the
  current account deficit rose to nearly 15% of GDP in 2007. Trade has
  been increasingly oriented toward the West. Lithuania has gained
  membership in the World Trade Organization and joined the EU in May
  2004. Privatization of the large, state-owned utilities is nearly
  complete. Foreign government and business support have helped in the
  transition from the old command economy to a market economy.

Luxembourg
  This stable, high-income economy - benefiting from its
  proximity to France, Belgium, and Germany - features solid growth,
  low inflation, and low unemployment. The industrial sector,
  initially dominated by steel, has become increasingly diversified to
  include chemicals, rubber, and other products. Growth in the
  financial sector, which now accounts for about 28% of GDP, has more
  than compensated for the decline in steel. Most banks are foreign
  owned and have extensive foreign dealings. Agriculture is based on
  small family-owned farms. The economy depends on foreign and
  cross-border workers for about 60% of its labor force. Although
  Luxembourg, like all EU members, suffered from the global economic
  slump in the early part of this decade, the country continues to
  enjoy an extraordinarily high standard of living - GDP per capita
  ranks second in the world, after Qatar. After two years of strong
  economic growth in 2006-07, turmoil in the world financial markets
  will slow Luxembourg's economy in 2008, but growth will remain above
  the European average.

Macau
  Macau's economy has enjoyed strong growth in recent years on
  the back of its expanding tourism and gaming sectors. Since opening
  up its locally-controlled casino industry to foreign competition in
  2001, the territory has attracted tens of billions of dollars in
  foreign investment that have helped transform it into the world's
  largest gaming center. In 2006, Macau's gaming revenue surpassed
  that of the Las Vegas strip, and gaming-related taxes accounted for
  75% of total government revenue. The expanding casino sector, and
  China's decision beginning in 2002 to relax travel restrictions,
  have reenergized Macau's tourism industry, which saw total visitors
  grow to 27 million in 2007, up 62% in three years. Macau's strong
  economic growth has put pressure its labor market prompting
  businesses to look abroad to meet their staffing needs. The
  resulting influx of non-resident workers, who totaled one-fifth of
  the workforce in 2006, has fueled tensions among some segments of
  the population. Macau's traditional manufacturing industry has been
  in a slow decline. In 2006, exports of textiles and garments
  generated only $1.8 billion compared to $6.9 billion in gross gaming
  receipts. Macau's textile industry will continue to move to the
  mainland because of the termination in 2005 of the Multi-Fiber
  Agreement, which provided a near guarantee of export markets,
  leaving the territory more dependent on gambling and trade-related
  services to generate growth. However, the Closer Economic
  Partnership Agreement (CEPA) between Macau and mainland China that
  came into effect on 1 January 2004 offers many Macau-made products
  tariff-free access to the mainland. Macau's currency, the Pataca, is
  closely tied to the Hong Kong dollar, which is also freely accepted
  in the territory.

Macedonia
  At independence in September 1991, Macedonia was the least
  developed of the Yugoslav republics, producing a mere 5% of the
  total federal output of goods and services. The collapse of
  Yugoslavia ended transfer payments from the central government and
  eliminated advantages from inclusion in a de facto free trade area.
  An absence of infrastructure, UN sanctions on the downsized
  Yugoslavia, and a Greek economic embargo over a dispute about the
  country's constitutional name and flag hindered economic growth
  until 1996. GDP subsequently rose each year through 2000. In 2001,
  during a civil conflict, the economy shrank 4.5% because of
  decreased trade, intermittent border closures, increased deficit
  spending on security needs, and investor uncertainty. Growth barely
  recovered in 2002 to 0.9%, then averaged 4% per year during 2003-07,
  expanding to 5.1% in 2007. Macedonia has maintained macroeconomic
  stability with low inflation, but it has so far lagged the region in
  attracting foreign investment and creating jobs, despite making
  extensive fiscal and business sector reforms. Official unemployment
  remains high at nearly 35%, but may be overstated based on the
  existence of an extensive gray market, estimated to be more than 20
  percent of GDP, that is not captured by official statistics.

Madagascar
  Having discarded past socialist economic policies,
  Madagascar has since the mid 1990s followed a World Bank- and
  IMF-led policy of privatization and liberalization. This strategy
  placed the country on a slow and steady growth path from an
  extremely low level. Agriculture, including fishing and forestry, is
  a mainstay of the economy, accounting for more than one-fourth of
  GDP and employing 80% of the population. Exports of apparel have
  boomed in recent years primarily due to duty-free access to the US.
  Deforestation and erosion, aggravated by the use of firewood as the
  primary source of fuel, are serious concerns. President RAVALOMANANA
  has worked aggressively to revive the economy following the 2002
  political crisis, which triggered a 12% drop in GDP that year.
  Poverty reduction and combating corruption will be the centerpieces
  of economic policy for the next few years.

Malawi
  Landlocked Malawi ranks among the world's most densely
  populated and least developed countries. The economy is
  predominately agricultural with about 85% of the population living
  in rural areas. Agriculture accounts for more than one-third of GDP
  and 90% of export revenues. The performance of the tobacco sector is
  key to short-term growth as tobacco accounts for more than half of
  exports. The economy depends on substantial inflows of economic
  assistance from the IMF, the World Bank, and individual donor
  nations. In December 2007, the US granted Malawi eligibility status
  to receive financial support within the Millennium Challenge
  Corporation (MCC) initiative. Malawi will now begin a consultative
  process to develop a five-year program before funding can begin. In
  2006, Malawi was approved for relief under the Heavily Indebted Poor
  Countries (HIPC) program. The government faces many challenges
  including developing a market economy, improving educational
  facilities, facing up to environmental problems, dealing with the
  rapidly growing problem of HIV/AIDS, and satisfying foreign donors
  that fiscal discipline is being tightened. In 2005, President
  MUTHARIKA championed an anticorruption campaign. Since 2005
  President MUTHARIKA'S government has exhibited improved financial
  discipline under the guidance of Finance Minister Goodall GONDWE and
  signed a three year Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility worth $56
  million with the IMF. Improved relations with the IMF lead other
  international donors to resume aid as well.

Malaysia
  Malaysia, a middle-income country, has transformed itself
  since the 1970s from a producer of raw materials into an emerging
  multi-sector economy. Since coming to office in 2003, Prime Minister
  ABDULLAH has tried to move the economy farther up the value-added
  production chain by attracting investments in high technology
  industries, medical technology, and pharmaceuticals. The Government
  of Malaysia is continuing efforts to boost domestic demand to wean
  the economy off of its dependence on exports. Nevertheless, exports
  - particularly of electronics - remain a significant driver of the
  economy. As an oil and gas exporter, Malaysia has profited from
  higher world energy prices, although the rising cost of domestic
  gasoline and diesel fuel forced Kuala Lumpur to reduce government
  subsidies. Malaysia "unpegged" the ringgit from the US dollar in
  2005 and the currency appreciated 6% per year against the dollar in
  2006-07. Although this has helped to hold down the price of imports,
  inflationary pressures began to build in 2007. Healthy foreign
  exchange reserves and a small external debt greatly reduce the risk
  that Malaysia will experience a financial crisis over the near term
  similar to the one in 1997. The government presented its five-year
  national development agenda in April 2006 through the Ninth Malaysia
  Plan, a comprehensive blueprint for the allocation of the national
  budget from 2006-10. With national elections expected within the
  year, ABDULLAH has unveiled a series of ambitious development
  schemes for several regions that have had trouble attracting
  business investment. Real GDP growth has averaged about 6% per year
  under ABDULLAH, but regions outside of Kuala Lumpur and the
  manufacturing hub Penang have not fared as well.

Maldives
  Tourism, Maldives' largest industry, accounts for 28% of
  GDP and more than 60% of the Maldives' foreign exchange receipts.
  Over 90% of government tax revenue comes from import duties and
  tourism-related taxes. Fishing is the second leading sector.
  Agriculture and manufacturing continue to play a lesser role in the
  economy, constrained by the limited availability of cultivable land
  and the shortage of domestic labor. Most staple foods must be
  imported. Industry, which consists mainly of garment production,
  boat building, and handicrafts, accounts for about 7% of GDP. The
  Maldivian Government began an economic reform program in 1989
  initially by lifting import quotas and opening some exports to the
  private sector. Subsequently, it has liberalized regulations to
  allow more foreign investment. Real GDP growth averaged over 7.5%
  per year for more than a decade. In late December 2004, a major
  tsunami left more than 100 dead, 12,000 displaced, and property
  damage exceeding $300 million. As a result of the tsunami, the GDP
  contracted by about 3.6% in 2005. A rebound in tourism, post-tsunami
  reconstruction, and development of new resorts helped the economy
  recover quickly. The trade deficit has expanded sharply as a result
  of high oil prices and imports of construction material.
  Diversifying beyond tourism and fishing and increasing employment
  are the major challenges facing the government. Over the longer term
  Maldivian authorities worry about the impact of erosion and possible
  global warming on their low-lying country; 80% of the area is 1
  meter or less above sea level.

Mali
  Mali is among the poorest countries in the world, with 65% of
  its land area desert or semidesert and with a highly unequal
  distribution of income. Economic activity is largely confined to the
  riverine area irrigated by the Niger. About 10% of the population is
  nomadic and some 80% of the labor force is engaged in farming and
  fishing. Industrial activity is concentrated on processing farm
  commodities. Mali is heavily dependent on foreign aid and vulnerable
  to fluctuations in world prices for cotton, its main export, along
  with gold. The government has continued its successful
  implementation of an IMF-recommended structural adjustment program
  that is helping the economy grow, diversify, and attract foreign
  investment. Mali's adherence to economic reform and the 50%
  devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994 have pushed up economic
  growth to a 5% average in 1996-2007. Worker remittances and external
  trade routes for the landlocked country have been jeopardized by
  continued unrest in neighboring Cote d'Ivoire.

Malta
  Major resources are limestone, a favorable geographic
  location, and a productive labor force. Malta produces only about
  20% of its food needs, has limited fresh water supplies, and has few
  domestic energy sources. The economy is dependent on foreign trade,
  manufacturing (especially electronics and pharmaceuticals), and
  tourism. Economic recovery of the European economy has lifted
  exports, tourism, and overall growth. Malta adopted the euro on 1
  January 2008.

Marshall Islands
  US Government assistance is the mainstay of this
  tiny island economy. The Marshall Islands received more than $1
  billion in aid from the US from 1986-2002. Agricultural production,
  primarily subsistence, is concentrated on small farms; the most
  important commercial crops are coconuts and breadfruit. Small-scale
  industry is limited to handicrafts, tuna processing, and copra. The
  tourist industry, now a small source of foreign exchange employing
  less than 10% of the labor force, remains the best hope for future
  added income. The islands have few natural resources, and imports
  far exceed exports. Under the terms of the Amended Compact of Free
  Association, the US will provide millions of dollars per year to the
  Marshall Islands (RMI) through 2023, at which time a Trust Fund made
  up of US and RMI contributions will begin perpetual annual payouts.
  Government downsizing, drought, a drop in construction, the decline
  in tourism, and less income from the renewal of fishing vessel
  licenses have held GDP growth to an average of 1% over the past
  decade.

Mauritania
  Half the population still depends on agriculture and
  livestock for a livelihood, even though many of the nomads and
  subsistence farmers were forced into the cities by recurrent
  droughts in the 1970s and 1980s. Mauritania has extensive deposits
  of iron ore, which account for nearly 40% of total exports. The
  nation's coastal waters are among the richest fishing areas in the
  world, but overexploitation by foreigners threatens this key source
  of revenue. The country's first deepwater port opened near
  Nouakchott in 1986. In the past, drought and economic mismanagement
  resulted in a buildup of foreign debt, which now stands at more than
  three times the level of annual exports. In February 2000,
  Mauritania qualified for debt relief under the Heavily Indebted Poor
  Countries (HIPC) initiative and in December 2001 received strong
  support from donor and lending countries at a triennial Consultative
  Group review. A new investment code approved in December 2001
  improved the opportunities for direct foreign investment. Ongoing
  negotiations with the IMF involve problems of economic reforms and
  fiscal discipline. In 2001, exploratory oil wells in tracts 80 km
  offshore indicated potential extraction at current world oil prices.
  Oil prospects, while initially promising, have failed to
  materialize. Meantime the government emphasizes reduction of
  poverty, improvement of health and education, and promoting
  privatization of the economy.

Mauritius
  Since independence in 1968, Mauritius has developed from a
  low-income, agriculturally based economy to a middle-income
  diversified economy with growing industrial, financial, and tourist
  sectors. For most of the period, annual growth has been in the order
  of 5% to 6%. This remarkable achievement has been reflected in more
  equitable income distribution, increased life expectancy, lowered
  infant mortality, and a much-improved infrastructure. The economy
  rests on sugar, tourism, textiles and apparel, and financial
  services, and is expanding into fish processing, information and
  communications technology, and hospitality and property development.
  Sugarcane is grown on about 90% of the cultivated land area and
  accounts for 15% of export earnings. The government's development
  strategy centers on creating vertical and horizontal clusters of
  development in these sectors. Mauritius has attracted more than
  32,000 offshore entities, many aimed at commerce in India, South
  Africa, and China. Investment in the banking sector alone has
  reached over $1 billion. Mauritius, with its strong textile sector,
  has been well poised to take advantage of the Africa Growth and
  Opportunity Act (AGOA).

Mayotte
  Economic activity is based primarily on the agricultural
  sector, including fishing and livestock raising. Mayotte is not
  self-sufficient and must import a large portion of its food
  requirements, mainly from France. The economy and future development
  of the island are heavily dependent on French financial assistance,
  an important supplement to GDP. Mayotte's remote location is an
  obstacle to the development of tourism.

Mexico
  Mexico has a free market economy in the trillion dollar
  class. It contains a mixture of modern and outmoded industry and
  agriculture, increasingly dominated by the private sector. Recent
  administrations have expanded competition in seaports, railroads,
  telecommunications, electricity generation, natural gas
  distribution, and airports. Per capita income is one-fourth that of
  the US; income distribution remains highly unequal. Trade with the
  US and Canada has tripled since the implementation of NAFTA in 1994.
  Mexico has 12 free trade agreements with over 40 countries
  including, Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, the European Free Trade
  Area, and Japan, putting more than 90% of trade under free trade
  agreements. In 2007, during his first year in office, the Felipe
  CALDERON administration was able to garner support from the
  opposition to successfully pass a pension and a fiscal reform. The
  administration continues to face many economic challenges including
  the need to upgrade infrastructure, modernize labor laws, and allow
  private investment in the energy sector. CALDERON has stated that
  his top economic priorities remain reducing poverty and creating
  jobs.

Micronesia, Federated States of
  Economic activity consists primarily
  of subsistence farming and fishing. The islands have few mineral
  deposits worth exploiting, except for high-grade phosphate. The
  potential for a tourist industry exists, but the remote location, a
  lack of adequate facilities, and limited air connections hinder
  development. Under the original terms of the Compact of Free
  Association, the US provided $1.3 billion in grant aid during the
  period 1986-2001; the level of aid has been subsequently reduced.
  The Amended Compact of Free Association with the US guarantees the
  Federated States of Micronesia (FSM) millions of dollars in annual
  aid through 2023, and establishes a Trust Fund into which the US and
  the FSM make annual contributions in order to provide annual payouts
  to the FSM in perpetuity after 2023. The country's medium-term
  economic outlook appears fragile due not only to the reduction in US
  assistance but also to the current slow growth of the private sector.

Moldova
  Moldova remains one of the poorest countries in Europe
  despite recent progress from its small economic base. It enjoys a
  favorable climate and good farmland but has no major mineral
  deposits. As a result, the economy depends heavily on agriculture,
  featuring fruits, vegetables, wine, and tobacco. Moldova must import
  almost all of its energy supplies. Moldova's dependence on Russian
  energy was underscored at the end of 2005, when a Russian-owned
  electrical station in Moldova's separatist Transnistria region cut
  off power to Moldova and Russia's Gazprom cut off natural gas in
  disputes over pricing. Russia's decision to ban Moldovan wine and
  agricultural products, coupled with its decision to double the price
  Moldova paid for Russian natural gas, slowed GDP growth in 2006.
  However, in 2007 growth returned to the 6% level Moldova had
  achieved in 2000-05, boosted by Russia's partial removal of the
  bans, solid fixed capital investment, and strong domestic demand
  driven by remittances from abroad. Economic reforms have been slow
  because of corruption and strong political forces backing government
  controls. Nevertheless, the government's primary goal of EU
  integration has resulted in some market-oriented progress. The
  granting of EU trade preferences and increased exports to Russia
  will encourage higher growth rates in 2008, but the agreements are
  unlikely to serve as a panacea, given the extent to which export
  success depends on higher quality standards and other factors. The
  economy remains vulnerable to higher fuel prices, poor agricultural
  weather, and the skepticism of foreign investors. Also, the presence
  of an illegal separatist regime in Moldova's Transnistria region
  continues to be a drag on the Moldovan economy.

Monaco
  Monaco, bordering France on the Mediterranean coast, is a
  popular resort, attracting tourists to its casino and pleasant
  climate. The principality also is a major banking center and has
  successfully sought to diversify into services and small,
  high-value-added, nonpolluting industries. The state has no income
  tax and low business taxes and thrives as a tax haven both for
  individuals who have established residence and for foreign companies
  that have set up businesses and offices. The state retains
  monopolies in a number of sectors, including tobacco, the telephone
  network, and the postal service. Living standards are high, roughly
  comparable to those in prosperous French metropolitan areas.

Mongolia
  Economic activity in Mongolia has traditionally been based
  on herding and agriculture. Mongolia has extensive mineral deposits.
  Copper, coal, gold, molybdenum, fluorspar, uranium, tin, and
  tungsten account for a large part of industrial production and
  foreign direct investment. Soviet assistance, at its height
  one-third of GDP, disappeared almost overnight in 1990 and 1991 at
  the time of the dismantlement of the USSR. The following decade saw
  Mongolia endure both deep recession because of political inaction
  and natural disasters, as well as economic growth because of
  reform-embracing, free-market economics and extensive privatization
  of the formerly state-run economy. Severe winters and summer
  droughts in 2000-02 resulted in massive livestock die-off and zero
  or negative GDP growth. This was compounded by falling prices for
  Mongolia's primary sector exports and widespread opposition to
  privatization. Growth was 10.6% in 2004, 5.5% in 2005, 7.5% in 2006,
  and 9.9% in 2007 largely because of high copper prices and new gold
  production. Mongolia is experiencing its highest inflation rate in
  over a decade as consumer prices in 2007 rose 15%, largely because
  of increased fuel and food costs. Mongolia's economy continues to be
  heavily influenced by its neighbors. For example, Mongolia purchases
  95% of its petroleum products and a substantial amount of electric
  power from Russia, leaving it vulnerable to price increases. Trade
  with China represents more than half of Mongolia's total external
  trade - China receives about 70% of Mongolia's exports. Remittances
  from Mongolians working abroad both legally and illegally are
  sizable, and money laundering is a growing concern. Mongolia settled
  its $11 billion debt with Russia at the end of 2003 on favorable
  terms. Mongolia, which joined the World Trade Organization in 1997,
  seeks to expand its participation and integration into Asian
  regional economic and trade regimes.

Montenegro
  Montenegro severed its economy from federal control and
  from Serbia during the MILOSEVIC era and maintained its own central
  bank, used the euro instead of the Yugoslav dinar as official
  currency, collected customs tariffs, and managed its own budget. The
  dissolution of the loose political union between Serbia and
  Montenegro in 2006 led to separate membership in several
  international financial institutions, such as the European Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development. On 18 January 2007, Montenegro
  joined the World Bank and IMF. Montenegro is pursuing its own
  membership in the World Trade Organization as well as negotiating a
  Stabilization and Association agreement with the European Union in
  anticipation of eventual membership. Severe unemployment remains a
  key political and economic problem for this entire region.
  Montenegro has privatized its large aluminum complex - the dominant
  industry - as well as most of its financial sector, and has begun to
  attract foreign direct investment in the tourism sector.

Montserrat
  Severe volcanic activity, which began in July 1995, has
  put a damper on this small, open economy. A catastrophic eruption in
  June 1997 closed the airports and seaports, causing further economic
  and social dislocation. Two-thirds of the 12,000 inhabitants fled
  the island. Some began to return in 1998, but lack of housing
  limited the number. The agriculture sector continued to be affected
  by the lack of suitable land for farming and the destruction of
  crops. Prospects for the economy depend largely on developments in
  relation to the volcanic activity and on public sector construction
  activity. The UK has launched a three-year $122.8 million aid
  program to help reconstruct the economy. Half of the island is
  expected to remain uninhabitable for another decade.

Morocco
  Moroccan economic policies brought macroeconomic stability
  to the country in the early 1990s but have not spurred growth
  sufficient to reduce unemployment - nearing 20% in urban areas -
  despite the Moroccan Government's ongoing efforts to diversify the
  economy. Morocco's GDP growth rate slowed to 2.1% in 2007 as a
  result of a draught that severely reduced agricultural output and
  necessitated wheat imports at rising world prices. Continued
  dependence on foreign energy and Morocco's inability to develop
  small and medium size enterprises also contributed to the slowdown.
  Moroccan authorities understand that reducing poverty and providing
  jobs are key to domestic security and development. In 2005, Morocco
  launched the National Initiative for Human Development (INDH), a $2
  billion social development plan to address poverty and unemployment
  and to improve the living conditions of the country's urban slums.
  Moroccan authorities are implementing reform efforts to open the
  economy to international investors. Despite structural adjustment
  programs supported by the IMF, the World Bank, and the Paris Club,
  the dirham is only fully convertible for current account
  transactions. In 2000, Morocco entered an Association Agreement with
  the EU and, in 2006, entered a Free Trade Agreement (FTA) with the
  US. Long-term challenges include improving education and job
  prospects for Morocco's youth, and closing the income gap between
  the rich and the poor, which the government hopes to achieve by
  increasing tourist arrivals and boosting competitiveness in textiles.

Mozambique
  At independence in 1975, Mozambique was one of the
  world's poorest countries. Socialist mismanagement and a brutal
  civil war from 1977-92 exacerbated the situation. In 1987, the
  government embarked on a series of macroeconomic reforms designed to
  stabilize the economy. These steps, combined with donor assistance
  and with political stability since the multi-party elections in
  1994, have led to dramatic improvements in the country's growth
  rate. Inflation was reduced to single digits during the late 1990s,
  and although it returned to double digits in 2000-06, in 2007
  inflation had slowed to 8%, while GDP growth reached 7.5%. Fiscal
  reforms, including the introduction of a value-added tax and reform
  of the customs service, have improved the government's revenue
  collection abilities. In spite of these gains, Mozambique remains
  dependent upon foreign assistance for much of its annual budget, and
  the majority of the population remains below the poverty line.
  Subsistence agriculture continues to employ the vast majority of the
  country's work force. A substantial trade imbalance persists
  although the opening of the Mozal aluminum smelter, the country's
  largest foreign investment project to date, has increased export
  earnings. At the end of 2007, and after years of negotiations, the
  government took over Portugal's majority share of the Cahora Bassa
  Hydroelectricity (HCB) company, a dam that was not transferred to
  Mozambique at independence because of the ensuing civil war and
  unpaid debts. More power is needed for additional investment
  projects in titanium extraction and processing and garment
  manufacturing that could further close the import/export gap.
  Mozambique's once substantial foreign debt has been reduced through
  forgiveness and rescheduling under the IMF's Heavily Indebted Poor
  Countries (HIPC) and Enhanced HIPC initiatives, and is now at a
  manageable level. In July 2007 the Millennium Challenge Corporation
  (MCC) signed a Compact with Mozambique; the Mozambican government
  moved rapidly to ratify the Compact and propose a plan for funding.

Namibia
  The economy is heavily dependent on the extraction and
  processing of minerals for export. Mining accounts for 8% of GDP,
  but provides more than 50% of foreign exchange earnings. Rich
  alluvial diamond deposits make Namibia a primary source for
  gem-quality diamonds. Namibia is the fourth-largest exporter of
  nonfuel minerals in Africa, the world's fifth-largest producer of
  uranium, and the producer of large quantities of lead, zinc, tin,
  silver, and tungsten. The mining sector employs only about 3% of the
  population while about half of the population depends on subsistence
  agriculture for its livelihood. Namibia normally imports about 50%
  of its cereal requirements; in drought years food shortages are a
  major problem in rural areas. A high per capita GDP, relative to the
  region, hides one of the world's most unequal income distributions.
  The Namibian economy is closely linked to South Africa with the
  Namibian dollar pegged one-to-one to the South African rand.
  Increased payments from the Southern African Customs Union (SACU)
  put Namibia's budget into surplus in 2007 for the first time since
  independence, but SACU payments will decline after 2008 as part of a
  new revenue sharing formula. Increased fish production and mining of
  zinc, copper, uranium, and silver spurred growth in 2003-07, but
  growth in recent years was undercut by poor fish catches and high
  costs for metal inputs.

Nauru
  Revenues of this tiny island have traditionally come from
  exports of phosphates, now significantly depleted. An Australian
  company in 2005 entered into an agreement intended to exploit
  remaining supplies. Few other resources exist with most necessities
  being imported, mainly from Australia, its former occupier and later
  major source of support. The rehabilitation of mined land and the
  replacement of income from phosphates are serious long-term
  problems. In anticipation of the exhaustion of Nauru's phosphate
  deposits, substantial amounts of phosphate income were invested in
  trust funds to help cushion the transition and provide for Nauru's
  economic future. As a result of heavy spending from the trust funds,
  the government faces virtual bankruptcy. To cut costs the government
  has frozen wages and reduced overstaffed public service departments.
  In 2005, the deterioration in housing, hospitals, and other capital
  plant continued, and the cost to Australia of keeping the government
  and economy afloat continued to climb. Few comprehensive statistics
  on the Nauru economy exist, with estimates of Nauru's GDP varying
  widely.

Navassa Island
  Subsistence fishing and commercial trawling occur
  within refuge waters.

Nepal
  Nepal is among the poorest and least developed countries in
  the world with almost one-third of its population living below the
  poverty line. Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy, providing
  a livelihood for three-fourths of the population and accounting for
  38% of GDP. Industrial activity mainly involves the processing of
  agricultural produce including jute, sugarcane, tobacco, and grain.
  Security concerns relating to the Maoist conflict have led to a
  decrease in tourism, a key source of foreign exchange. Nepal has
  considerable scope for exploiting its potential in hydropower and
  tourism, areas of recent foreign investment interest. Prospects for
  foreign trade or investment in other sectors will remain poor,
  however, because of the small size of the economy, its technological
  backwardness, its remoteness, its landlocked geographic location,
  its civil strife, and its susceptibility to natural disaster.

Netherlands
  The Netherlands has a prosperous and open economy, which
  depends heavily on foreign trade. The economy is noted for stable
  industrial relations, moderate unemployment and inflation, a sizable
  current account surplus, and an important role as a European
  transportation hub. Industrial activity is predominantly in food
  processing, chemicals, petroleum refining, and electrical machinery.
  A highly mechanized agricultural sector employs no more than 3% of
  the labor force but provides large surpluses for the food-processing
  industry and for exports. The Netherlands, along with 11 of its EU
  partners, began circulating the euro currency on 1 January 2002. The
  country continues to be one of the leading European nations for
  attracting foreign direct investment and is one of the five largest
  investors in the US. The economy experienced a slowdown in 2005 but
  in 2006 recovered to the fastest pace in six years on the back of
  increased exports and strong investment. The pace of job growth
  reached 10-year highs in 2007.

Netherlands Antilles
  Tourism, petroleum refining, and offshore
  finance are the mainstays of this small economy, which is closely
  tied to the outside world. Although GDP has declined or grown
  slightly in each of the past eight years, the islands enjoy a high
  per capita income and a well-developed infrastructure compared with
  other countries in the region. Most of the oil Netherlands Antilles
  imports for its refineries come from Venezuela. Almost all consumer
  and capital goods are imported, the US, Italy, and Mexico being the
  major suppliers. Poor soils and inadequate water supplies hamper the
  development of agriculture. Budgetary problems hamper reform of the
  health and pension systems of an aging population. The Netherlands
  provides financial aid to support the economy.

New Caledonia
  New Caledonia has about 25% of the world's known
  nickel resources. Only a small amount of the land is suitable for
  cultivation, and food accounts for about 20% of imports. In addition
  to nickel, substantial financial support from France - equal to more
  than 15% of GDP - and tourism are keys to the health of the economy.
  Substantial new investment in the nickel industry, combined with the
  recovery of global nickel prices, brightens the economic outlook for
  the next several years.

New Zealand
  Over the past 20 years the government has transformed
  New Zealand from an agrarian economy dependent on concessionary
  British market access to a more industrialized, free market economy
  that can compete globally. This dynamic growth has boosted real
  incomes - but left behind many at the bottom of the ladder - and
  broadened and deepened the technological capabilities of the
  industrial sector. Per capita income has risen for eight consecutive
  years and reached $27,300 in 2007 in purchasing power parity terms.
  Consumer and government spending have driven growth in recent years,
  and exports picked up in 2006 after struggling for several years.
  Exports were equal to about 22% of GDP in 2007, down from 33% of GDP
  in 2001. Thus far the economy has been resilient, and the Labor
  Government promises that expenditures on health, education, and
  pensions will increase proportionately to output. Inflationary
  pressures have built in recent years and the central bank raised its
  key rate 13 times since January 2004 to finish 2007 at 8.25%. A
  large balance of payments deficit poses another challenge in
  managing the economy.

Nicaragua
  Nicaragua has widespread underemployment, one of the
  highest degrees of income inequality in the world, and the third
  lowest per capita income in the Western Hemisphere. While the
  country has progressed toward macroeconomic stability in the past
  few years, annual GDP growth has been far too low to meet the
  country's needs, forcing the country to rely on international
  economic assistance to meet fiscal and debt financing obligations.
  In early 2004, Nicaragua secured some $4.5 billion in foreign debt
  reduction under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC)
  initiative, and in October 2007, the IMF approved a new poverty
  reduction and growth facility (PRGF) program that should create
  fiscal space for social spending and investment. The continuity of a
  relationship with the IMF reinforces donor confidence, despite
  private sector concerns surrounding ORTEGA, which has dampened
  investment. The US-Central America Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA) has
  been in effect since April 2006 and has expanded export
  opportunities for many agricultural and manufactured goods. Energy
  shortages fueled by high oil prices, however, are a serious
  bottleneck to growth.

Niger
  Niger is one of the poorest countries in the world, ranking
  near last on the United Nations Development Fund index of human
  development. It is a landlocked, Sub-Saharan nation, whose economy
  centers on subsistence crops, livestock, and some of the world's
  largest uranium deposits. Drought cycles, desertification, and a
  2.9% population growth rate, have undercut the economy. Niger shares
  a common currency, the CFA franc, and a common central bank, the
  Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO), with seven other
  members of the West African Monetary Union. In December 2000, Niger
  qualified for enhanced debt relief under the International Monetary
  Fund program for Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) and concluded
  an agreement with the Fund on a Poverty Reduction and Growth
  Facility (PRGF). Debt relief provided under the enhanced HIPC
  initiative significantly reduces Niger's annual debt service
  obligations, freeing funds for expenditures on basic health care,
  primary education, HIV/AIDS prevention, rural infrastructure, and
  other programs geared at poverty reduction. In December 2005, Niger
  received 100% multilateral debt relief from the IMF, which
  translates into the forgiveness of approximately US $86 million in
  debts to the IMF, excluding the remaining assistance under HIPC.
  Nearly half of the government's budget is derived from foreign donor
  resources. Future growth may be sustained by exploitation of oil,
  gold, coal, and other mineral resources. Uranium prices have
  increased sharply in the last few years. A drought and locust
  infestation in 2005 led to food shortages for as many as 2.5 million
  Nigeriens.

Nigeria
  Oil-rich Nigeria, long hobbled by political instability,
  corruption, inadequate infrastructure, and poor macroeconomic
  management, is undertaking some reforms under a new reform-minded
  administration. Nigeria's former military rulers failed to diversify
  the economy away from its overdependence on the capital-intensive
  oil sector, which provides 20% of GDP, 95% of foreign exchange
  earnings, and about 80% of budgetary revenues. The largely
  subsistence agricultural sector has failed to keep up with rapid
  population growth - Nigeria is Africa's most populous country - and
  the country, once a large net exporter of food, now must import
  food. Following the signing of an IMF stand-by agreement in August
  2000, Nigeria received a debt-restructuring deal from the Paris Club
  and a $1 billion credit from the IMF, both contingent on economic
  reforms. Nigeria pulled out of its IMF program in April 2002, after
  failing to meet spending and exchange rate targets, making it
  ineligible for additional debt forgiveness from the Paris Club. In
  the last year the government has begun showing the political will to
  implement the market-oriented reforms urged by the IMF, such as to
  modernize the banking system, to curb inflation by blocking
  excessive wage demands, and to resolve regional disputes over the
  distribution of earnings from the oil industry. In 2003, the
  government began deregulating fuel prices, announced the
  privatization of the country's four oil refineries, and instituted
  the National Economic Empowerment Development Strategy, a
  domestically designed and run program modeled on the IMF's Poverty
  Reduction and Growth Facility for fiscal and monetary management. In
  November 2005, Abuja won Paris Club approval for a debt-relief deal
  that eliminated $18 billion of debt in exchange for $12 billion in
  payments - a total package worth $30 billion of Nigeria's total $37
  billion external debt. The deal requires Nigeria to be subject to
  stringent IMF reviews. GDP rose strongly in 2007, based largely on
  increased oil exports and high global crude prices. Newly-elected
  President YAR'ADUA has pledged to continue the economic reforms of
  his predecessor and the proposed budget for 2008 reflects the
  administrations emphasis on infrastructure improvements.
  Infrastructure is the main impediment to growth. The government is
  working toward developing stronger public-private partnerships for
  electricity and roads.

Niue
  The economy suffers from the typical Pacific island problems of
  geographic isolation, few resources, and a small population.
  Government expenditures regularly exceed revenues, and the shortfall
  is made up by critically needed grants from New Zealand that are
  used to pay wages to public employees. Niue has cut government
  expenditures by reducing the public service by almost half. The
  agricultural sector consists mainly of subsistence gardening,
  although some cash crops are grown for export. Industry consists
  primarily of small factories to process passion fruit, lime oil,
  honey, and coconut cream. The sale of postage stamps to foreign
  collectors is an important source of revenue. The island in recent
  years has suffered a serious loss of population because of
  emigration to New Zealand. Efforts to increase GDP include the
  promotion of tourism and a financial services industry, although the
  International Banking Repeal Act of 2002 resulted in the termination
  of all offshore banking licenses. Economic aid from New Zealand in
  2002 was US$2.6 million. Niue suffered a devastating typhoon in
  January 2004, which decimated nascent economic programs. While in
  the process of rebuilding, Niue has been dependent on foreign aid.

Norfolk Island
  Tourism, the primary economic activity, has steadily
  increased over the years and has brought a level of prosperity
  unusual among inhabitants of the Pacific islands. The agricultural
  sector has become self-sufficient in the production of beef,
  poultry, and eggs.

Northern Mariana Islands
  The economy benefits substantially from
  financial assistance from the US. The rate of funding has declined
  as locally generated government revenues have grown. The key tourist
  industry employs about 50% of the work force and accounts for
  roughly one-fourth of GDP. Japanese tourists predominate. Annual
  tourist entries have exceeded one-half million in recent years, but
  financial difficulties in Japan have caused a temporary slowdown.
  The agricultural sector is made up of cattle ranches and small farms
  producing coconuts, breadfruit, tomatoes, and melons. Garment
  production is by far the most important industry with the employment
  of 17,500 mostly Chinese workers and sizable shipments to the US
  under duty and quota exemptions.

Norway
  The Norwegian economy is a prosperous bastion of welfare
  capitalism, featuring a combination of free market activity and
  government intervention. The government controls key areas, such as
  the vital petroleum sector, through large-scale state enterprises.
  The country is richly endowed with natural resources - petroleum,
  hydropower, fish, forests, and minerals - and is highly dependent on
  its oil production and international oil prices, with oil and gas
  accounting for one-third of exports. Only Saudi Arabia and Russia
  export more oil than Norway. Norway opted to stay out of the EU
  during a referendum in November 1994; nonetheless, as a member of
  the European Economic Area, it contributes sizably to the EU budget.
  The government has moved ahead with privatization. Although
  Norwegian oil production peaked in 2000, natural gas production is
  still rising. Norwegians realize that once their gas production
  peaks they will eventually face declining oil and gas revenues;
  accordingly, Norway has been saving its oil-and-gas-boosted budget
  surpluses in a Government Petroleum Fund, which is invested abroad
  and now is valued at more than $250 billion. After lackluster growth
  of less than 1% in 2002-03, GDP growth picked up to 3-5% in 2004-07,
  partly due to higher oil prices. Norway's economy remains buoyant.
  Domestic economic activity is, and will continue to be, the main
  driver of growth, supported by high consumer confidence and strong
  investment spending in the offshore oil and gas sector. Norway's
  record high budget surplus and upswing in the labor market in 2007
  highlight the strength of its economic position going into 2008.

Oman
  Oman is a middle-income economy that is heavily dependent on
  dwindling oil resources, but sustained high oil prices in recent
  years have helped build Oman's budget and trade surpluses and
  foreign reserves. Oman joined the World Trade Organization in
  November 2000 and continues to liberalize its markets. It ratified a
  free trade agreement with the US in September 2006, and, through the
  Gulf Cooperation Council, seeks similar agreements with the EU,
  China and Japan. As a result of its dwindling oil resources, Oman is
  actively pursuing a development plan that focuses on
  diversification, industrialization, and privatization, with the
  objective of reducing the oil sector's contribution to GDP to 9
  percent by 2020. Muscat is attempting to "Omanize" the labor force
  by replacing foreign expatriate workers with local workers. Oman
  actively seeks private foreign investors, especially in the
  industrial, information technology, tourism, and higher education
  fields. Industrial development plans focus on gas resources, metal
  manufacturing, petrochemicals, and international transshipment ports.

Pacific Ocean
  The Pacific Ocean is a major contributor to the world
  economy and particularly to those nations its waters directly touch.
  It provides low-cost sea transportation between East and West,
  extensive fishing grounds, offshore oil and gas fields, minerals,
  and sand and gravel for the construction industry. In 1996, over 60%
  of the world's fish catch came from the Pacific Ocean. Exploitation
  of offshore oil and gas reserves is playing an ever-increasing role
  in the energy supplies of the US, Australia, NZ, China, and Peru.
  The high cost of recovering offshore oil and gas, combined with the
  wide swings in world prices for oil since 1985, has led to
  fluctuations in new drillings.

Pakistan
  Pakistan, an impoverished and underdeveloped country, has
  suffered from decades of internal political disputes, low levels of
  foreign investment, and a costly, ongoing confrontation with
  neighboring India. However, since 2001, IMF-approved reforms - most
  notably, privatization of the banking sector - bolstered by generous
  foreign assistance and renewed access to global markets, have
  generated macroeconomic recovery. Pakistan has experienced GDP
  growth in the 6-8% range in 2004-07, spurred by gains in the
  industrial and service sectors. Poverty levels have decreased by 10%
  since 2001, and Islamabad has steadily raised development spending
  in recent years, including a 52% real increase in the budget
  allocation for development in FY07. In 2007 the fiscal deficit - a
  result of chronically low tax collection and increased spending -
  exceeded Islamabad's target of 4% of GDP. Inflation remains the top
  concern among the public, jumping from 7.7% in 2007 to more than 11%
  during the first few months of 2008, primarily because of rising
  world commodity prices. The Pakistani rupee has depreciated since
  the proclamation of emergency rule in November 2007.

Palau
  The economy consists primarily of tourism, subsistence
  agriculture, and fishing. The government is the major employer of
  the work force relying heavily on financial assistance from the US.
  The Compact of Free Association with the US, entered into after the
  end of the UN trusteeship on 1 October 1994, provided Palau with up
  to $700 million in US aid for the following 15 years in return for
  furnishing military facilities. Business and tourist arrivals
  numbered 63,000 in 2003. The population enjoys a per capita income
  roughly 50% higher than that of the Philippines and much of
  Micronesia. Long-run prospects for the key tourist sector have been
  greatly bolstered by the expansion of air travel in the Pacific, the
  rising prosperity of leading East Asian countries, and the
  willingness of foreigners to finance infrastructure development.

Panama
  Panama's dollarized economy rests primarily on a
  well-developed services sector that accounts for two-thirds of GDP.
  Services include operating the Panama Canal, banking, the Colon Free
  Zone, insurance, container ports, flagship registry, and tourism.
  Economic growth will be bolstered by the Panama Canal expansion
  project that began in 2007 and should be completed by 2014 at a cost
  of $5.3 billion (about 30% of current GDP). The expansion project
  will more than double the Canal's capacity, enabling it to
  accommodate ships that are now too large to transverse the
  transoceanic crossway and should help to reduce the high
  unemployment rate. The government has implemented tax reforms, as
  well as social security reforms, and backs regional trade agreements
  and development of tourism. Not a CAFTA signatory, Panama in
  December 2006 independently negotiated a free trade agreement with
  the US, which, when implemented, will help promote the country's
  economic growth.

Papua New Guinea
  Papua New Guinea is richly endowed with natural
  resources, but exploitation has been hampered by rugged terrain and
  the high cost of developing infrastructure. Agriculture provides a
  subsistence livelihood for 85% of the population. Mineral deposits,
  including copper, gold, and oil, account for nearly two-thirds of
  export earnings. The government of Prime Minister SOMARE has
  expended much of its energy remaining in power. He was the first
  prime minister ever to serve a full five-year term. The government
  also brought stability to the national budget, largely through
  expenditure control; however, it relaxed spending constraints in
  2006 and 2007 as elections approached. Numerous challenges still
  face the government including regaining investor confidence,
  restoring integrity to state institutions, promoting economic
  efficiency by privatizing moribund state institutions, and balancing
  relations with Australia, its former colonial ruler. Other
  socio-cultural challenges could upend the economy including a
  worsening HIV/AIDS epidemic and chronic law and order and land
  tenure issues. Australia will supply more than $300 million in aid
  in FY07/08, which accounts for nearly 20% of the national budget.

Paracel Islands
  China announced plans in 1997 to open the islands
  for tourism.

Paraguay
  Landlocked Paraguay has a market economy marked by a large
  informal sector. This sector features both reexport of imported
  consumer goods to neighboring countries, as well as the activities
  of thousands of microenterprises and urban street vendors. Because
  of the importance of the informal sector, accurate economic measures
  are difficult to obtain. A large percentage of the population,
  especially in rural areas, derives its living from agricultural
  activity, often on a subsistence basis. On a per capita basis, real
  income has stagnated at 1980 levels. Most observers attribute
  Paraguay's poor economic performance to political uncertainty,
  corruption, limited progress on structural reform, and deficient
  infrastructure. The economy rebounded between 2003 and 2007, posting
  modest growth each year, as growing world demand for commodities
  combined with high prices and favorable weather to support
  Paraguay's commodity-based export expansion.

Peru
  Peru's economy reflects its varied geography - an arid coastal
  region, the Andes further inland, and tropical lands bordering
  Colombia and Brazil. Abundant mineral resources are found in the
  mountainous areas, and Peru's coastal waters provide excellent
  fishing grounds. However, overdependence on minerals and metals
  subjects the economy to fluctuations in world prices, and a lack of
  infrastructure deters trade and investment. After several years of
  inconsistent economic performance, the Peruvian economy grew by more
  than 4% per year during the period 2002-06, with a stable exchange
  rate and low inflation. Growth jumped to 7.5% in 2007, driven by
  higher world prices for minerals and metals. Risk premiums on
  Peruvian bonds on secondary markets reached historically low levels
  in late 2004, reflecting investor optimism regarding the
  government's prudent fiscal policies and openness to trade and
  investment. Despite the strong macroeconomic performance,
  underemployment and poverty have stayed persistently high. Growth
  prospects depend on exports of minerals, textiles, and agricultural
  products, and by expectations for the Camisea natural gas
  megaproject and for other promising energy projects. Upon taking
  office, President GARCIA announced Sierra Exportadora, a program
  aimed at promoting economic growth in Peru's southern and central
  highlands.

Philippines
  The Philippine economy grew at its fastest pace in three
  decades with real GDP growth exceeding 7% in 2007. Higher government
  spending contributed to the growth, but a resilient service sector
  and large remittances from the millions of Filipinos who work abroad
  have played an increasingly important role. Economic growth has
  averaged 5% since President MACAPAGAL-ARROYO took office in 2001.
  Nevertheless, the Philippines will need still higher, sustained
  growth to make progress in alleviating poverty, given its high
  population growth and unequal distribution of income.
  MACAPAGAL-ARROYO averted a fiscal crisis by pushing for new revenue
  measures and, until recently, tightening expenditures. Declining
  fiscal deficits, tapering debt and debt service ratios, as well as
  recent efforts to increase spending on infrastructure and social
  services have heightened optimism over Philippine economic
  prospects. Although the general macroeconomic outlook has improved
  significantly, the Philippines continues to face important
  challenges and must maintain the reform momentum in order to catch
  up with regional competitors, improve employment opportunities, and
  alleviate poverty. Longer-term fiscal stability will require more
  sustainable revenue sources, rather than non-recurring revenues from
  privatization.

Pitcairn Islands
  The inhabitants of this tiny isolated economy exist
  on fishing, subsistence farming, handicrafts, and postage stamps.
  The fertile soil of the valleys produces a wide variety of fruits
  and vegetables, including citrus, sugarcane, watermelons, bananas,
  yams, and beans. Bartering is an important part of the economy. The
  major sources of revenue are the sale of postage stamps to
  collectors and the sale of handicrafts to passing ships. In October
  2004, more than one-quarter of Pitcairn's small labor force was
  arrested, putting the economy in a bind, since their services were
  required as lighter crew to load or unload passing ships.

Poland
  Poland has pursued a policy of economic liberalization since
  1990 and today stands out as a success story among transition
  economies. In 2007, GDP grew an estimated 6.5%, based on rising
  private consumption, a jump in corporate investment, and EU funds
  inflows. GDP per capita is still much below the EU average, but is
  similar to that of the three Baltic states. Since 2004, EU
  membership and access to EU structural funds have provided a major
  boost to the economy. Unemployment is falling rapidly, though at
  roughly 12.8% in 2007, it remains well above the EU average.
  Tightening labor markets, and rising global energy and food prices,
  pose a risk to consumer price stability. In December 2007 inflation
  reached 4.1% on a year-over-year basis, or higher than the upper
  limit of the National Bank of Poland's target range. Poland's
  economic performance could improve further if the country addresses
  some of the remaining deficiencies in its business environment. An
  inefficient commercial court system, a rigid labor code,
  bureaucratic red tape, and persistent low-level corruption keep the
  private sector from performing up to its full potential. Rising
  demands to fund health care, education, and the state pension system
  present a challenge to the Polish government's effort to hold the
  consolidated public sector budget deficit under 3.0% of GDP, a
  target which was achieved in 2007. The PO/PSL coalition government
  which came to power in November 2007 plans to further reduce the
  budget deficit with the aim of eventually adopting the euro. The new
  government has also announced its intention to enact
  business-friendly reforms, reduce public sector spending growth,
  lower taxes, and accelerate privatization. However, the government
  does not have the necessary three-fifths majority needed to override
  a presidential veto, and thus may have to water down initiatives in
  order to garner enough support to pass its pro-business policies.

Portugal
  Portugal has become a diversified and increasingly
  service-based economy since joining the European Community in 1986.
  Over the past two decades, successive governments have privatized
  many state-controlled firms and liberalized key areas of the
  economy, including the financial and telecommunications sectors. The
  country qualified for the European Monetary Union (EMU) in 1998 and
  began circulating the euro on 1 January 2002 along with 11 other EU
  member economies. Economic growth had been above the EU average for
  much of the 1990s, but fell back in 2001-07. GDP per capita stands
  at roughly two-thirds of the EU-27 average. A poor educational
  system, in particular, has been an obstacle to greater productivity
  and growth. Portugal has been increasingly overshadowed by
  lower-cost producers in Central Europe and Asia as a target for
  foreign direct investment. The budget deficit surged to an all-time
  high of 6% of GDP in 2005, but the government reduced the deficit to
  2.6% in 2007 - a year ahead of Portugal's targeted schedule.
  Nonetheless, the government faces tough choices in its attempts to
  boost Portugal's economic competitiveness while keeping the budget
  deficit within the eurozone's 3%-of-GDP ceiling.

Puerto Rico
  Puerto Rico has one of the most dynamic economies in the
  Caribbean region. A diverse industrial sector has far surpassed
  agriculture as the primary locus of economic activity and income.
  Encouraged by duty-free access to the US and by tax incentives, US
  firms have invested heavily in Puerto Rico since the 1950s. US
  minimum wage laws apply. Sugar production has lost out to dairy
  production and other livestock products as the main source of income
  in the agricultural sector. Tourism has traditionally been an
  important source of income, with estimated arrivals of nearly 5
  million tourists in 2004. Growth fell off in 2001-03, largely due to
  the slowdown in the US economy, recovered in 2004-05, but declined
  again in 2006-07.

Qatar
  Qatar is in the midst of an economic boom supported by its
  expanding production of natural gas and oil. Economic policy is
  focused on development of Qatar's nonassociated natural gas reserves
  and increasing private and foreign investment in non-energy sectors.
  Oil and gas account for more than 60% of GDP, roughly 85% of export
  earnings, and 70% of government revenues. Oil and gas have made
  Qatar the highest per-capita income country and one of the world's
  fastest growing. Sustained high oil prices and increased natural gas
  exports in recent years have helped build Qatar's budget and trade
  surpluses and foreign reserves. Proved oil reserves of more than 15
  billion barrels should ensure continued output at current levels for
  22 years. Qatar's proved reserves of natural gas are roughly 25
  trillion cubic meters, about 15% of the world total and third
  largest in the world. Qatar has permitted substantial foreign
  investment in the development of its gas fields during the last
  decade and became the world's top liquefied natural gas (LNG)
  exporter in 2007.

Romania
  Romania, which joined the European Union on 1 January 2007,
  began the transition from Communism in 1989 with a largely obsolete
  industrial base and a pattern of output unsuited to the country's
  needs. The country emerged in 2000 from a punishing three-year
  recession thanks to strong demand in EU export markets. Domestic
  consumption and investment have fueled strong GDP growth in recent
  years, but have led to large current account imbalances. Romania's
  macroeconomic gains have only recently started to spur creation of a
  middle class and address Romania's widespread poverty. Corruption
  and red tape continue to handicap its business environment.
  Inflation rose in 2007 for the first time in eight years, driven in
  part by the depreciation of the currency, rising energy costs, a
  nation-wide drought affecting food prices, and a relaxation of
  fiscal discipline. Romania hopes to adopt the euro by 2014.

Russia
  Russia ended 2007 with its ninth straight year of growth,
  averaging 7% annually since the financial crisis of 1998. Although
  high oil prices and a relatively cheap ruble initially drove this
  growth, since 2003 consumer demand and, more recently, investment
  have played a significant role. Over the last six years, fixed
  capital investments have averaged real gains greater than 10% per
  year and personal incomes have achieved real gains more than 12% per
  year. During this time, poverty has declined steadily and the middle
  class has continued to expand. Russia has also improved its
  international financial position since the 1998 financial crisis.
  The federal budget has run surpluses since 2001 and ended 2007 with
  a surplus of about 3% of GDP. Over the past several years, Russia
  has used its stabilization fund based on oil taxes to prepay all
  Soviet-era sovereign debt to Paris Club creditors and the IMF.
  Foreign debt is approximately one-third of GDP. The state component
  of foreign debt has declined, but commercial debt to foreigners has
  risen strongly. Oil export earnings have allowed Russia to increase
  its foreign reserves from $12 billion in 1999 to some $470 billion
  at yearend 2007, the third largest reserves in the world. During
  President PUTIN's first administration, a number of important
  reforms were implemented in the areas of tax, banking, labor, and
  land codes. These achievements have raised business and investor
  confidence in Russia's economic prospects, with foreign direct
  investment rising from $14.6 billion in 2005 to approximately $45
  billion in 2007. In 2007, Russia's GDP grew 8.1%, led by
  non-tradable services and goods for the domestic market, as opposed
  to oil or mineral extraction and exports. Rising inflation returned
  in the second half of 2007, driven largely by unsterilized capital
  inflows and by rising food costs, and approached 12% by year-end. In
  2006, Russia signed a bilateral market access agreement with the US
  as a prelude to possible WTO entry, and its companies are involved
  in global merger and acquisition activity in the oil and gas,
  metals, and telecom sectors. Despite Russia's recent success,
  serious problems persist. Oil, natural gas, metals, and timber
  account for more than 80% of exports and 30% of government revenues,
  leaving the country vulnerable to swings in world commodity prices.
  Russia's manufacturing base is dilapidated and must be replaced or
  modernized if the country is to achieve broad-based economic growth.
  The banking system, while increasing consumer lending and growing at
  a high rate, is still small relative to the banking sectors of
  Russia's emerging market peers. Political uncertainties associated
  with this year's power transition, corruption, and lack of trust in
  institutions continue to dampen domestic and foreign investor
  sentiment. PUTIN has granted more influence to forces within his
  government that desire to reassert state control over the economy.
  Russia has made little progress in building the rule of law, the
  bedrock of a modern market economy. The government has promised
  additional legislative amendments to make its intellectual property
  protection WTO-consistent, but enforcement remains problematic.

Rwanda
  Rwanda is a poor rural country with about 90% of the
  population engaged in (mainly subsistence) agriculture. It is the
  most densely populated country in Africa and is landlocked with few
  natural resources and minimal industry. Primary foreign exchange
  earners are coffee and tea. The 1994 genocide decimated Rwanda's
  fragile economic base, severely impoverished the population,
  particularly women, and eroded the country's ability to attract
  private and external investment. However, Rwanda has made
  substantial progress in stabilizing and rehabilitating its economy
  to pre-1994 levels, although poverty levels are higher now. GDP has
  rebounded and inflation has been curbed. Despite Rwanda's fertile
  ecosystem, food production often does not keep pace with population
  growth, requiring food imports. Rwanda continues to receive
  substantial aid money and obtained IMF-World Bank Heavily Indebted
  Poor Country (HIPC) initiative debt relief in 2005-06. Rwanda also
  received Millennium Challenge Account Threshold status in 2006. The
  government has embraced an expansionary fiscal policy to reduce
  poverty by improving education, infrastructure, and foreign and
  domestic investment and pursuing market-oriented reforms, although
  energy shortages, instability in neighboring states, and lack of
  adequate transportation linkages to other countries continue to
  handicap growth.

Saint Barthelemy
  The economy of Saint Barthelemy is based upon
  high-end tourism and duty-free luxury commerce, serving visitors
  primarily from North America. The luxury hotels and villas host
  70,000 visitors each year with another 130,000 arriving by boat. The
  relative isolation and high cost of living inhibits mass tourism.
  The construction and public sectors also enjoy significant
  investment in support of tourism. With limited fresh water
  resources, all food must be imported, as must all energy resources
  and most manufactured goods. Employment is strong and attracts labor
  from Brazil and Portugal.

Saint Helena
  The economy depends largely on financial assistance
  from the UK, which will amount to about $27 million in FY06/07 or
  almost 70% of annual budgetary revenues. The local population earns
  income from fishing, raising livestock, and sales of handicrafts.
  Because there are few jobs, 25% of the work force has left to seek
  employment on Ascension Island, on the Falklands, and in the UK.

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  Sugar was the traditional mainstay of the
  Saint Kitts economy until the 1970s. Following the 2005 harvest, the
  government closed the sugar industry after decades of losses of 3-4%
  of GDP annually. To compensate for employment losses, the government
  has embarked on a program to diversify the agricultural sector and
  to stimulate other sectors of the economy. Activities such as
  tourism, export-oriented manufacturing, and offshore banking have
  assumed larger roles in the economy and have contributed to the
  recent robust growth. Tourism revenues are now the chief source of
  the islands' foreign exchange; about 341,800 tourists visited Nevis
  in 2005. The current government is constrained by a high debt
  burden, public debt reached 190% of GDP by the end of 2005, largely
  attributable to public enterprise losses.

Saint Lucia
  The island nation has been able to attract foreign
  business and investment, especially in its offshore banking and
  tourism industries, with a surge in foreign direct investment in
  2006, attributed to the construction of several tourism projects.
  Tourism is the main source of foreign exchange, with almost 900,000
  arrivals in 2007. The manufacturing sector is the most diverse in
  the Eastern Caribbean area, and the government is trying to
  revitalize the banana industry. Saint Lucia is vulnerable to a
  variety of external shocks including declines in European Union
  banana preferences, volatile tourism receipts, natural disasters,
  and dependence on foreign oil. High debt servicing obligations
  constrain the KING administration's ability to respond to adverse
  external shocks. Economic fundamentals remain solid, even though
  unemployment needs to be reduced.

Saint Martin
  The economy of Saint Martin centers around tourism with
  85% of the labor force engaged in this sector. Over one million
  visitors come to the island each year with most arriving through the
  Princess Juliana International Airport in Sint Maarten. No
  significant agriculture and limited local fishing means that almost
  all food must be imported. Energy resources and manufactured goods
  are also imported, primarily from Mexico and the United States.
  Saint Martin is reported to have the highest per capita income in
  the Caribbean.

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  The inhabitants have traditionally earned
  their livelihood by fishing and by servicing fishing fleets
  operating off the coast of Newfoundland. The economy has been
  declining, however, because of disputes with Canada over fishing
  quotas and a steady decline in the number of ships stopping at Saint
  Pierre. In 1992, an arbitration panel awarded the islands an
  exclusive economic zone of 12,348 sq km to settle a longstanding
  territorial dispute with Canada, although it represents only 25% of
  what France had sought. France heavily subsidizes the islands to the
  great betterment of living standards. The government hopes an
  expansion of tourism will boost economic prospects. Fish farming,
  crab fishing, and agriculture are being developed to diversify the
  local economy. Recent test drilling for oil may pave the way for
  development of the energy sector.

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  Economic growth slowed slightly in
  2007 after reaching a 10 year high of nearly 7% in 2006, but is
  expected to remain robust, hinging upon seasonal variations in the
  agricultural and tourism sectors and a recent increase in
  construction activity. This lower-middle-income country is
  vulnerable to natural disasters - tropical storms wiped out
  substantial portions of crops in 1994, 1995, and 2002. In 2007, the
  islands had more than 200,000 tourist arrivals, mostly to the
  Grenadines. Saint Vincent is home to a small offshore banking sector
  and has moved to adopt international regulatory standards. The
  government's ability to invest in social programs and respond to
  external shocks is constrained by its high debt burden - 25 percent
  of current revenues are directed towards debt servicing.

Samoa
  The economy of Samoa has traditionally been dependent on
  development aid, family remittances from overseas, agriculture, and
  fishing. The country is vulnerable to devastating storms.
  Agriculture employs two-thirds of the labor force and furnishes 90%
  of exports, featuring coconut cream, coconut oil, and copra. The
  fish catch declined during the El Nino of 2002-03 but returned to
  normal by mid-2005. The manufacturing sector mainly processes
  agricultural products. One factory in the Foreign Trade Zone employs
  3,000 people to make automobile electrical harnesses for an assembly
  plant in Australia. Tourism is an expanding sector, accounting for
  25% of GDP; 116,000 tourists visited the islands in 2006. The Samoan
  Government has called for deregulation of the financial sector,
  encouragement of investment, and continued fiscal discipline, while
  at the same time protecting the environment. Observers point to the
  flexibility of the labor market as a basic strength for future
  economic advances. Foreign reserves are in a relatively healthy
  state, the external debt is stable, and inflation is low.

San Marino
  The tourist sector contributes over 50% of GDP. In 2006
  more than 2.1 million tourists visited San Marino. The key
  industries are banking, clothing and apparel, electronics, and
  ceramics. Main agricultural products are wine and cheeses. The per
  capita level of output and standard of living are comparable to
  those of the most prosperous regions of Italy, which supplies much
  of its food.

Sao Tome and Principe
  This small, poor island economy has become
  increasingly dependent on cocoa since independence in 1975. Cocoa
  production has substantially declined in recent years because of
  drought and mismanagement. Sao Tome has to import all fuels, most
  manufactured goods, consumer goods, and a substantial amount of
  food. Over the years, it has had difficulty servicing its external
  debt and has relied heavily on concessional aid and debt
  rescheduling. Sao Tome benefited from $200 million in debt relief in
  December 2000 under the Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC)
  program, which helped bring down the country's $300 million debt
  burden. In August 2005, Sao Tome signed on to a new 3-year IMF
  Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) program worth $4.3
  million. Considerable potential exists for development of a tourist
  industry, and the government has taken steps to expand facilities in
  recent years. The government also has attempted to reduce price
  controls and subsidies. Sao Tome is optimistic about the development
  of petroleum resources in its territorial waters in the oil-rich
  Gulf of Guinea, which are being jointly developed in a 60-40 split
  with Nigeria. The first production licenses were sold in 2004,
  though a dispute over licensing with Nigeria delayed Sao Tome's
  receipt of more than $20 million in signing bonuses for almost a
  year. Real GDP growth exceeded 6% in 2007, as a result of increases
  in public expenditures and oil-related capital investment.

Saudi Arabia
  Saudi Arabia has an oil-based economy with strong
  government controls over major economic activities. It possesses
  more than 20% of the world's proven petroleum reserves, ranks as the
  largest exporter of petroleum, and plays a leading role in OPEC. The
  petroleum sector accounts for roughly 75% of budget revenues, 45% of
  GDP, and 90% of export earnings. About 40% of GDP comes from the
  private sector. Roughly 5.5 million foreign workers play an
  important role in the Saudi economy, particularly in the oil and
  service sectors. High oil prices have boosted growth, government
  revenues, and Saudi ownership of foreign assets, while enabling
  Riyadh to pay down domestic debt. The government is encouraging
  private sector growth - especially in power generation,
  telecommunications, natural gas exploration, and petrochemicals - to
  lessen the kingdom's dependence on oil exports and to increase
  employment opportunities for the swelling Saudi population, nearly
  40% of which are youths under 15 years old. Unemployment is high,
  and the large youth population generally lacks the education and
  technical skills the private sector needs. Riyadh has substantially
  boosted spending on job training and education, infrastructure
  development, and government salaries. As part of its effort to
  attract foreign investment and diversify the economy, Saudi Arabia
  acceded to the WTO in December 2005 after many years of
  negotiations. The government has announced plans to establish six
  "economic cities" in different regions of the country to promote
  development and diversification.

Senegal
  In January 1994, Senegal undertook a bold and ambitious
  economic reform program with the support of the international donor
  community. This reform began with a 50% devaluation of Senegal's
  currency, the CFA franc, which was linked at a fixed rate to the
  French franc. Government price controls and subsidies have been
  steadily dismantled. After seeing its economy contract by 2.1% in
  1993, Senegal made an important turnaround, thanks to the reform
  program, with real growth in GDP averaging over 5% annually during
  1995-2007. Annual inflation had been pushed down to the low single
  digits. As a member of the West African Economic and Monetary Union
  (WAEMU), Senegal is working toward greater regional integration with
  a unified external tariff and a more stable monetary policy. High
  unemployment, however, continues to prompt illegal migrants to flee
  Senegal in search of better job opportunities in Europe. Senegal was
  also beset by an energy crisis that caused widespread blackouts in
  2006 and 2007. The phosphate industry has struggled for two years to
  secure capital, and reduced output has directly impacted GDP. In
  2007, Senegal signed agreements for major new mining concessions for
  iron, zircon, and gold with foreign companies. Firms from Dubai have
  agreed to manage and modernize Dakar's maritime port, and create a
  new special economic zone. Senegal still relies heavily upon outside
  donor assistance. Under the IMF's Highly Indebted Poor Countries
  (HIPC) debt relief program, Senegal has benefited from eradication
  of two-thirds of its bilateral, multilateral, and private-sector
  debt. In 2007, Senegal and the IMF agreed to a new, non-disbursing,
  Policy Support Initiative program.

Serbia
  MILOSEVIC-era mismanagement of the economy, an extended
  period of economic sanctions, and the damage to Yugoslavia's
  infrastructure and industry during the NATO airstrikes in 1999 left
  the economy only half the size it was in 1990. After the ousting of
  former Federal Yugoslav President MILOSEVIC in September 2000, the
  Democratic Opposition of Serbia (DOS) coalition government
  implemented stabilization measures and embarked on a market reform
  program. After renewing its membership in the IMF in December 2000,
  a down-sized Yugoslavia continued to reintegrate into the
  international community by rejoining the World Bank (IBRD) and the
  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD). A World
  Bank-European Commission sponsored Donors' Conference held in June
  2001 raised $1.3 billion for economic restructuring. In November
  2001, the Paris Club agreed to reschedule the country's $4.5 billion
  public debt and wrote off 66% of the debt. In July 2004, the London
  Club of private creditors forgave $1.7 billion of debt just over
  half the total owed. Belgrade has made only minimal progress in
  restructuring and privatizing its holdings in major sectors of the
  economy, including energy and telecommunications. It has made
  halting progress towards EU membership and is currently pursuing a
  Stabilization and Association Agreement with Brussels. Serbia is
  also pursuing membership in the World Trade Organization.
  Unemployment remains an ongoing political and economic problem.

Seychelles
  Since independence in 1976, per capita output in this
  Indian Ocean archipelago has expanded to roughly seven times the
  pre-independence, near-subsistence level, moving the island into the
  upper-middle income group of countries. Growth has been led by the
  tourist sector, which employs about 30% of the labor force and
  provides more than 70% of hard currency earnings, and by tuna
  fishing. In recent years, the government has encouraged foreign
  investment to upgrade hotels and other services. At the same time,
  the government has moved to reduce the dependence on tourism by
  promoting the development of farming, fishing, and small-scale
  manufacturing. Sharp drops illustrated the vulnerability of the
  tourist sector in 1991-92 due largely to the Gulf War and once again
  following the 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks on the US.
  Economic growth slowed in 1998-2002 and fell in 2003-04, due to
  sluggish tourist and tuna sectors, but resumed in 2005-07. Real GDP
  grew by 5.8% in 2007, driven by tourism and a boom in
  tourism-related construction. The Seychelles rupee was allowed to
  depreciate in 2006 after being overvalued for years and fell by 10%
  in the first 9 months of 2007.

Sierra Leone
  Sierra Leone is an extremely poor nation with
  tremendous inequality in income distribution. While it possesses
  substantial mineral, agricultural, and fishery resources, its
  physical and social infrastructure is not well developed, and
  serious social disorders continue to hamper economic development.
  Nearly half of the working-age population engages in subsistence
  agriculture. Manufacturing consists mainly of the processing of raw
  materials and of light manufacturing for the domestic market.
  Alluvial diamond mining remains the major source of hard currency
  earnings accounting for nearly half of Sierra Leone's exports. The
  fate of the economy depends upon the maintenance of domestic peace
  and the continued receipt of substantial aid from abroad, which is
  essential to offset the severe trade imbalance and supplement
  government revenues. The IMF has completed a Poverty Reduction and
  Growth Facility program that helped stabilize economic growth and
  reduce inflation. A recent increase in political stability has led
  to a revival of economic activity such as the rehabilitation of
  bauxite and rutile mining.

Singapore
  Singapore has a highly developed and successful
  free-market economy. It enjoys a remarkably open and corruption-free
  environment, stable prices, and a per capita GDP equal to that of
  the four largest West European countries. The economy depends
  heavily on exports, particularly in consumer electronics and
  information technology products. It was hard hit from 2001-03 by the
  global recession, by the slump in the technology sector, and by an
  outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) in 2003, which
  curbed tourism and consumer spending. Fiscal stimulus, low interest
  rates, a surge in exports, and internal flexibility led to vigorous
  growth in 2004-07 with real GDP growth averaging 7% annually. The
  government hopes to establish a new growth path that will be less
  vulnerable to the global demand cycle for information technology
  products - it has attracted major investments in pharmaceuticals and
  medical technology production - and will continue efforts to
  establish Singapore as Southeast Asia's financial and high-tech hub.

Slovakia
  Slovakia has mastered much of the difficult transition from
  a centrally planned economy to a modern market economy. The DZURINDA
  government made excellent progress during 2001-04 in macroeconomic
  stabilization and structural reform. Major privatizations are nearly
  complete, the banking sector is almost completely in foreign hands,
  and the government has helped facilitate a foreign investment boom
  with business friendly policies such as labor market liberalization
  and a 19% flat tax. Foreign investment in the automotive sector has
  been strong. Slovakia's economic growth exceeded expectations in
  2001-07 despite the general European slowdown. Unemployment, at an
  unacceptable 18% in 2003-04, dropped to 8.6% in 2007 but remains the
  economy's Achilles heel. Slovakia joined the EU on 1 May 2004 and
  will be the second of the new EU member states to adopt the euro in
  2009 if it continues to meet euro adoption criteria in 2008. Despite
  its 2006 pre-election promises to loosen fiscal policy and reverse
  the previous DZURINDA government's pro-market reforms, FICO's
  cabinet has thus far been careful to keep a lid on spending in order
  to meet euro adoption criteria. The FICO government is pursuing a
  state-interventionist economic policy, however, and has pushed to
  regulate energy and food prices.

Slovenia
  Slovenia, which on 1 January 2007 became the first 2004
  European Union entrant to adopt the euro, is a model of economic
  success and stability for the region. With the highest per capita
  GDP in Central Europe, Slovenia has excellent infrastructure, a
  well-educated work force, and a strategic location between the
  Balkans and Western Europe. Privatization has lagged since 2002, and
  the economy has one of highest levels of state control in the EU.
  Structural reforms to improve the business environment have allowed
  for somewhat greater foreign participation in Slovenia's economy and
  have helped to lower unemployment. In March 2004, Slovenia became
  the first transition country to graduate from borrower status to
  donor partner at the World Bank. In December 2007, Slovenia was
  invited to begin the accession process for joining the OECD. Despite
  its economic success, foreign direct investment (FDI) in Slovenia
  has lagged behind the region average, and taxes remain relatively
  high. Furthermore, the labor market is often seen as inflexible, and
  legacy industries are losing sales to more competitive firms in
  China, India, and elsewhere.

Solomon Islands
  The bulk of the population depends on agriculture,
  fishing, and forestry for at least part of its livelihood. Most
  manufactured goods and petroleum products must be imported. The
  islands are rich in undeveloped mineral resources such as lead,
  zinc, nickel, and gold. Prior to the arrival of the Regional
  Assistance Mission to the Solomon Islands (RAMSI), severe ethnic
  violence, the closing of key businesses, and an empty government
  treasury culminated in economic collapse. RAMSI's efforts to restore
  law and order and economic stability have led to modest growth as
  the economy rebuilds.

Somalia
  Despite the lack of effective national governance, Somalia
  has maintained a healthy informal economy, largely based on
  livestock, remittance/money transfer companies, and
  telecommunications. Agriculture is the most important sector, with
  livestock normally accounting for about 40% of GDP and about 65% of
  export earnings. Nomads and semi-pastoralists, who are dependent
  upon livestock for their livelihood, make up a large portion of the
  population. Livestock, hides, fish, charcoal, and bananas are
  Somalia's principal exports, while sugar, sorghum, corn, qat, and
  machined goods are the principal imports. Somalia's small industrial
  sector, based on the processing of agricultural products, has
  largely been looted and sold as scrap metal. Somalia's service
  sector also has grown. Telecommunication firms provide wireless
  services in most major cities and offer the lowest international
  call rates on the continent. In the absence of a formal banking
  sector, money exchange services have sprouted throughout the
  country, handling between $500 million and $1 billion in remittances
  annually. Mogadishu's main market offers a variety of goods from
  food to the newest electronic gadgets. Hotels continue to operate
  and are supported with private-security militias. Somalia's arrears
  to the IMF continued to grow in 2006-07. Statistics on Somalia's
  GDP, growth, per capita income, and inflation should be viewed
  skeptically. In late December 2004, a major tsunami caused an
  estimated 150 deaths and resulted in destruction of property in
  coastal areas.

South Africa
  South Africa is a middle-income, emerging market with
  an abundant supply of natural resources; well-developed financial,
  legal, communications, energy, and transport sectors; a stock
  exchange that is 17th largest in the world; and modern
  infrastructure supporting an efficient distribution of goods to
  major urban centers throughout the region. Growth has been robust
  since 2004, as South Africa has reaped the benefits of macroeconomic
  stability and a global commodities boom. However, unemployment
  remains high and outdated infrastructure has constrained growth. At
  the end of 2007, South Africa began to experience an electricity
  crisis because state power supplier Eskom suffered supply problems
  with aged plants, necessitating "load-shedding" cuts to residents
  and businesses in the major cities. Daunting economic problems
  remain from the apartheid era - especially poverty, lack of economic
  empowerment among the disadvantaged groups, and a shortage of public
  transportation. South African economic policy is fiscally
  conservative but pragmatic, focusing on controlling inflation,
  maintaining a budget surplus, and using state-owned enterprises to
  deliver basic services to low-income areas as a means to increase
  job growth and household income.

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  Some fishing takes
  place in adjacent waters. There is a potential source of income from
  harvesting finfish and krill. The islands receive income from
  postage stamps produced in the UK, sale of fishing licenses, and
  harbor and landing fees from tourist vessels. Tourism from
  specialized cruise ships is increasing rapidly.

Southern Ocean
  Fisheries in 2005-06 landed 128,081 metric tons, of
  which 83% (106,591 tons) was krill (Euphausia superba) and 9.7%
  (12,364 tons) Patagonian toothfish (Dissostichus eleginoides),
  compared to 147,506 tons in 2004-05 of which 86% (127,035 tons) was
  krill and 8% (11,821 tons) Patagonian toothfish (estimated fishing
  from the area covered by the Convention of the Conservation of
  Antarctic Marine Living Resources (CCAMLR), which extends slightly
  beyond the Southern Ocean area). International agreements were
  adopted in late 1999 to reduce illegal, unreported, and unregulated
  fishing, which in the 2000-01 season landed, by one estimate, 8,376
  metric tons of Patagonian and Antarctic toothfish. In the 2006-07
  Antarctic summer, 35,552 tourists visited the Southern Ocean,
  compared to 29,799 in 2005-2006 (estimates provided to the Antarctic
  Treaty by the International Association of Antarctica Tour Operators
  (IAATO), and does not include passengers on overflights and those
  flying directly in and out of Antarctica).

Spain
  The Spanish economy boomed from 1986 to 1990 averaging 5%
  annual growth. After a European-wide recession in the early 1990s,
  the Spanish economy resumed moderate growth starting in 1994.
  Spain's mixed capitalist economy supports a GDP that on a per capita
  basis is equal to that of the leading West European economies. The
  center-right government of former President Jose Maria AZNAR
  successfully worked to gain admission to the first group of
  countries launching the European single currency (the euro) on 1
  January 1999. The AZNAR administration continued to advocate
  liberalization, privatization, and deregulation of the economy and
  introduced some tax reforms to that end. Unemployment fell steadily
  under the AZNAR administration but remains high at 7.6%. Growth
  averaging more than 3% annually during 2003-07 was satisfactory
  given the background of a faltering European economy. The Socialist
  president, Jose Luis Rodriguez ZAPATERO, has made mixed progress in
  carrying out key structural reforms, which need to be accelerated
  and deepened to sustain Spain's economic growth. Despite the
  economy's relative solid footing significant downside risks remain
  including Spain's continued loss of competitiveness, the potential
  for a housing market collapse, the country's changing demographic
  profile, and a decline in EU structural funds.

Spratly Islands
  Economic activity is limited to commercial fishing.
  The proximity to nearby oil- and gas-producing sedimentary basins
  suggests the potential for oil and gas deposits, but the region is
  largely unexplored. There are no reliable estimates of potential
  reserves. Commercial exploitation has yet to be developed.

Sri Lanka
  In 1977, Colombo abandoned statist economic policies and
  its import substitution trade policy for more market-oriented
  policies, export-oriented trade, and encouragement of foreign
  investment. Recent changes in government, however, have brought some
  policy reversals. Currently, the ruling Sri Lanka Freedom Party has
  a more statist economic approach, which seeks to reduce poverty by
  steering investment to disadvantaged areas, developing small and
  medium enterprises, promoting agriculture, and expanding the already
  enormous civil service. The government has halted privatizations.
  Although suffering a brutal civil war that began in 1983, Sri Lanka
  saw GDP growth average 4.5% in the last 10 years with the exception
  of a recession in 2001. In late December 2004, a major tsunami took
  about 31,000 lives, left more than 6,300 missing and 443,000
  displaced, and destroyed an estimated $1.5 billion worth of
  property. Government spending and reconstruction drove growth to
  more than 7% in 2006 but reduced agriculture output probably slowed
  growth to about 6 percent in 2007. Government spending and loose
  monetary policy drove inflation to nearly 16% in 2007. Sri Lanka's
  most dynamic sectors now are food processing, textiles and apparel,
  food and beverages, port construction, telecommunications, and
  insurance and banking. In 2006, plantation crops made up only about
  15% of exports (compared with more than 90% in 1970), while textiles
  and garments accounted for more than 60%. About 800,000 Sri Lankans
  work abroad, 90% of them in the Middle East. They send home more
  than $1 billion a year. The struggle by the Tamil Tigers of the
  north and east for an independent homeland continues to cast a
  shadow over the economy.

Sudan
  Sudan's economy is booming on the back of increases in oil
  production, high oil prices, and large inflows of foreign direct
  investment. GDP growth registered more than 10% per year in 2006 and
  2007. From 1997 to date, Sudan has been working with the IMF to
  implement macroeconomic reforms, including a managed float of the
  exchange rate. Sudan began exporting crude oil in the last quarter
  of 1999. Agricultural production remains important, because it
  employs 80% of the work force and contributes a third of GDP. The
  Darfur conflict, the aftermath of two decades of civil war in the
  south, the lack of basic infrastructure in large areas, and a
  reliance by much of the population on subsistence agriculture ensure
  much of the population will remain at or below the poverty line for
  years despite rapid rises in average per capita income. In January
  2007, the government introduced a new currency, the Sudanese Pound,
  at an initial exchange rate of $1.00 equals 2 Sudanese Pounds.

Suriname
  The economy is dominated by the mining industry, with
  exports of alumina, gold, and oil accounting for about 85% of
  exports and 25% of government revenues, making the economy highly
  vulnerable to mineral price volatility. The short-term economic
  outlook depends on the government's ability to control inflation and
  on the development of projects in the bauxite and gold mining
  sectors. Suriname has received aid for these projects from
  Netherlands, Belgium, and the European Development Fund. Suriname's
  economic prospects for the medium term will depend on continued
  commitment to responsible monetary and fiscal policies and to the
  introduction of structural reforms to liberalize markets and promote
  competition. In 2000, the government of Ronald VENETIAAN, returned
  to office and inherited an economy with inflation of over 100% and a
  growing fiscal deficit. He quickly implemented an austerity program,
  raised taxes, attempted to control spending, and tamed inflation.
  These economic policies are likely to remain in effect during
  VENETIAAN's third term. Prospects for local onshore oil production
  are good as a drilling program is underway. Offshore oil drilling
  was given a boost in 2004 when the State Oil Company (Staatsolie)
  signed exploration agreements with Repsol, Maersk, and Occidental.
  Bidding on these new offshore blocks was completed in July 2006.

Svalbard
  Coal mining is the major economic activity on Svalbard. The
  treaty of 9 February 1920 gave the 41 signatories equal rights to
  exploit mineral deposits, subject to Norwegian regulation. Although
  US, UK, Dutch, and Swedish coal companies have mined in the past,
  the only companies still mining are Norwegian and Russian. The
  settlements on Svalbard are essentially company towns. The Norwegian
  state-owned coal company employs nearly 60% of the Norwegian
  population on the island, runs many of the local services, and
  provides most of the local infrastructure. There is also some
  hunting of seal, reindeer, and fox.

Swaziland
  In this small, landlocked economy, subsistence agriculture
  occupies approximately 70% of the population. The manufacturing
  sector has diversified since the mid-1980s. Sugar and wood pulp
  remain important foreign exchange earners. In 2007, the sugar
  industry increased efficiency and diversification efforts, in
  response to a 17% decline in EU sugar prices. Mining has declined in
  importance in recent years with only coal and quarry stone mines
  remaining active. Surrounded by South Africa, except for a short
  border with Mozambique, Swaziland is heavily dependent on South
  Africa from which it receives more than nine-tenths of its imports
  and to which it sends 60% of its exports. Swaziland's currency is
  pegged to the South African rand, subsuming Swaziland's monetary
  policy to South Africa. Customs duties from the Southern African
  Customs Union, which may equal as much as 70% of government revenue
  this year, and worker remittances from South Africa substantially
  supplement domestically earned income. Swaziland is not poor enough
  to merit an IMF program; however, the country is struggling to
  reduce the size of the civil service and control costs at public
  enterprises. The government is trying to improve the atmosphere for
  foreign investment. With an estimated 40% unemployment rate,
  Swaziland's need to increase the number and size of small and medium
  enterprises and attract foreign direct investment is acute.
  Overgrazing, soil depletion, drought, and sometimes floods persist
  as problems for the future. More than one-fourth of the population
  needed emergency food aid in 2006-07 because of drought, and nearly
  two-fifths of the adult population has been infected by HIV/AIDS.

Sweden
  Aided by peace and neutrality for the whole of the 20th
  century, Sweden has achieved an enviable standard of living under a
  mixed system of high-tech capitalism and extensive welfare benefits.
  It has a modern distribution system, excellent internal and external
  communications, and a skilled labor force. Timber, hydropower, and
  iron ore constitute the resource base of an economy heavily oriented
  toward foreign trade. Privately owned firms account for about 90% of
  industrial output, of which the engineering sector accounts for 50%
  of output and exports. Agriculture accounts for only 1% of GDP and
  2% of employment. Sweden is in the midst of a sustained economic
  upswing, boosted by increased domestic demand and strong exports.
  This and robust finances have offered the center-right government
  considerable scope to implement its reform program aimed at
  increasing employment, reducing welfare dependence, and streamlining
  the state's role in the economy. The government plans to sell $31
  billion in state assets during the next three years to further
  stimulate growth and raise revenue to pay down the federal debt. In
  September 2003, Swedish voters turned down entry into the euro
  system concerned about the impact on the economy and sovereignty.

Switzerland
  Switzerland is a peaceful, prosperous, and stable modern
  market economy with low unemployment, a highly skilled labor force,
  and a per capita GDP larger than that of the big Western European
  economies. The Swiss in recent years have brought their economic
  practices largely into conformity with the EU's to enhance their
  international competitiveness. Switzerland remains a safehaven for
  investors, because it has maintained a degree of bank secrecy and
  has kept up the franc's long-term external value. Reflecting the
  anemic economic conditions of Europe, GDP growth stagnated during
  the 2001-03 period, improved during 2004-05, and jumped to 2.9% in
  2006, and 2.6% in 2007. Unemployment has remained at less than half
  the EU average.

Syria
  The Syrian economy grew by an estimated 3.3% in real terms in
  2007 led by the petroleum and agricultural sectors, which together
  account for about one-half of GDP. Higher crude oil prices countered
  declining oil production and led to higher budgetary and export
  receipts. Damascus has implemented modest economic reforms in the
  past few years, including cutting lending interest rates, opening
  private banks, consolidating all of the multiple exchange rates,
  raising prices on some subsidized items, most notably gasoline and
  cement, and establishing the Damascus Stock Exchange - which is set
  to begin operations in 2009. In October 2007, for example, Damascus
  raised the price of subsidized gasoline by 20%, and may institute a
  rationing system in 2008. In addition, President ASAD signed
  legislative decrees to encourage corporate ownership reform, and to
  allow the Central Bank to issue Treasury bills and bonds for
  government debt. Nevertheless, the economy remains highly controlled
  by the government. Long-run economic constraints include declining
  oil production, high unemployment and inflation, rising budget
  deficits, and increasing pressure on water supplies caused by heavy
  use in agriculture, rapid population growth, industrial expansion,
  and water pollution.

Taiwan
  Taiwan has a dynamic capitalist economy with gradually
  decreasing guidance of investment and foreign trade by the
  authorities. In keeping with this trend, some large, state-owned
  banks and industrial firms are being privatized. Exports have
  provided the primary impetus for industrialization. The island runs
  a large trade surplus, and its foreign reserves are among the
  world's largest. Despite restrictions on cross-strait links, China
  has overtaken the US to become Taiwan's largest export market and
  its second-largest source of imports after Japan. China is also the
  island's number one destination for foreign direct investment.
  Strong trade performance in 2007 pushed Taiwan's GDP growth rate
  above 5%, and unemployment is below 4%.

Tajikistan
  Tajikistan has one of the lowest per capita GDPs among
  the 15 former Soviet republics. Only 7% of the land area is arable.
  Cotton is the most important crop, but this sector is burdened with
  debt and an obsolete infrastructure. Mineral resources include
  silver, gold, uranium, and tungsten. Industry consists only of a
  large aluminum plant, hydropower facilities, and small obsolete
  factories mostly in light industry and food processing. The civil
  war (1992-97) severely damaged the already weak economic
  infrastructure and caused a sharp decline in industrial and
  agricultural production. While Tajikistan has experienced steady
  economic growth since 1997, nearly two-thirds of the population
  continues to live in abject poverty. Economic growth reached 10.6%
  in 2004, but dropped to 8% in 2005, 7% in 2006, and 7.8% in 2007.
  Tajikistan's economic situation remains fragile due to uneven
  implementation of structural reforms, corruption, weak governance,
  widespread unemployment, seasonal power shortages, and the external
  debt burden. Continued privatization of medium and large state-owned
  enterprises could increase productivity. A debt restructuring
  agreement was reached with Russia in December 2002 including a $250
  million write-off of Tajikistan's $300 million debt. Tajikistan
  ranks third in the world in terms of water resources per head, but
  suffers winter power shortages due to poor management of water
  levels in rivers and reservoirs. Completion of the Sangtuda I
  hydropower dam - built with Russian investment - and the Sangtuda II
  and Rogun dams will add substantially to electricity output. If
  finished according to Tajik plans, Rogun will be the world's tallest
  dam. Tajikistan has also received substantial infrastructure
  development loans from the Chinese government to improve roads and
  an electricity transmission network. To help increase north-south
  trade, the US funded a $36 million bridge which opened in August
  2007 and links Tajikistan and Afghanistan.

Tanzania
  Tanzania is one of the poorest countries in the world. The
  economy depends heavily on agriculture, which accounts for more than
  40% of GDP, provides 85% of exports, and employs 80% of the work
  force. Topography and climatic conditions, however, limit cultivated
  crops to only 4% of the land area. Industry traditionally featured
  the processing of agricultural products and light consumer goods.
  The World Bank, the IMF, and bilateral donors have provided funds to
  rehabilitate Tanzania's out-of-date economic infrastructure and to
  alleviate poverty. Long-term growth through 2005 featured a pickup
  in industrial production and a substantial increase in output of
  minerals led by gold. Recent banking reforms have helped increase
  private-sector growth and investment. Continued donor assistance and
  solid macroeconomic policies supported real GDP growth of nearly 7%
  in 2007.

Thailand
  With a well-developed infrastructure, a free-enterprise
  economy, and generally pro-investment policies, Thailand appears to
  have fully recovered from the 1997-98 Asian Financial Crisis. The
  country was one of East Asia's best performers from 2002-04. Boosted
  by strong export growth, the Thai economy grew 4.5% in 2007. Bangkok
  has pursued preferential trade agreements with a variety of partners
  in an effort to boost exports and to maintain high growth. By 2007,
  the tourism sector had largely recovered from the major 2004
  tsunami. Following the military coup in September 2006, investment
  and consumer confidence stagnated due to the uncertain political
  climate that lasted through the December 2007 elections. Foreign
  investor sentiment was further tempered by a 30% reserve requirement
  on capital inflows instituted in December 2006, and discussion of
  amending Thailand's rules governing foreign-owned businesses.
  Economic growth in 2007 was due almost entirely to robust export
  performance - despite the pressure of an appreciating currency.
  Exports have performed at record levels, rising nearly 17% in 2006
  and 12% in 2007. Export-oriented manufacturing - in particular
  automobile production - and farm output are driving these gains.

Timor-Leste
  In late 1999, about 70% of the economic infrastructure
  of Timor-Leste was laid waste by Indonesian troops and
  anti-independence militias. Three hundred thousand people fled
  westward. Over the next three years a massive international program,
  manned by 5,000 peacekeepers (8,000 at peak) and 1,300 police
  officers, led to substantial reconstruction in both urban and rural
  areas. By the end of 2005, refugees had returned or had settled in
  Indonesia. The country continues to face great challenges in
  rebuilding its infrastructure, strengthening the civil
  administration, and generating jobs for young people entering the
  work force. The development of oil and gas resources in offshore
  waters has begun to supplement government revenues ahead of schedule
  and above expectations - the result of high petroleum prices. The
  technology-intensive industry, however, has done little to create
  jobs for the unemployed because there are no production facilities
  in Timor. Gas is piped to Australia. In June 2005 the National
  Parliament unanimously approved the creation of a Petroleum Fund to
  serve as a repository for all petroleum revenues and preserve the
  value of Timor-Leste's petroleum wealth for future generations. The
  Fund held assets of US$1.8 billion as of September 2007. The
  mid-2006 outbreak of violence and civil unrest disrupted both
  private and public sector economic activity and created 100,000
  internally displaced persons - about 10 percent of the population.
  While real non-oil GDP growth in 2006 was negative, the economy
  probably rebounded in 2007. The underlying economic policy challenge
  the country faces remains how best to use oil-and-gas wealth to lift
  the non-oil economy onto a higher growth path and reduce poverty. In
  late 2007, the new government announced plans aimed at increasing
  spending, reducing poverty, and improving the country's
  infrastructure, but it continues to face capacity constraints. In
  the short term, the government must also address continuing problems
  related to the crisis of 2006, especially the displaced Timorese.

Togo
  This small, sub-Saharan economy is heavily dependent on both
  commercial and subsistence agriculture, which provides employment
  for 65% of the labor force. Some basic foodstuffs must still be
  imported. Cocoa, coffee, and cotton generate about 40% of export
  earnings with cotton being the most important cash crop. Togo is the
  world's fourth-largest producer of phosphate. The government's
  decade-long effort, supported by the World Bank and the IMF, to
  implement economic reform measures, encourage foreign investment,
  and bring revenues in line with expenditures has moved slowly.
  Progress depends on follow through on privatization, increased
  openness in government financial operations, progress toward
  legislative elections, and continued support from foreign donors.
  Togo is working with donors to write a Poverty Reduction and Growth
  Facility (PRGF) that could eventually lead to a debt reduction plan.
  Economic growth remains marginal due to declining cotton production,
  underinvestment in phosphate mining, and strained relations with
  donors.

Tokelau
  Tokelau's small size (three villages), isolation, and lack
  of resources greatly restrain economic development and confine
  agriculture to the subsistence level. The people rely heavily on aid
  from New Zealand - about $4 million annually - to maintain public
  services with annual aid being substantially greater than GDP. The
  principal sources of revenue come from sales of copra, postage
  stamps, souvenir coins, and handicrafts. Money is also remitted to
  families from relatives in New Zealand.

Tonga
  Tonga has a small, open, South Pacific island economy. It has
  a narrow export base in agricultural goods. Squash, vanilla beans,
  and yams are the main crops, and agricultural exports, including
  fish, make up two-thirds of total exports. The country must import a
  high proportion of its food, mainly from New Zealand. The country
  remains dependent on external aid and remittances from Tongan
  communities overseas to offset its trade deficit. Tourism is the
  second-largest source of hard currency earnings following
  remittances. The government is emphasizing the development of the
  private sector, especially the encouragement of investment, and is
  committing increased funds for health and education. Tonga has a
  reasonably sound basic infrastructure and well-developed social
  services. High unemployment among the young, a continuing upturn in
  inflation, pressures for democratic reform, and rising civil service
  expenditures are major issues facing the government.

Trinidad and Tobago
  Trinidad and Tobago has earned a reputation as
  an excellent investment site for international businesses and has
  one of the highest growth rates and per capita incomes in Latin
  America. Recent growth has been fueled by investments in liquefied
  natural gas (LNG), petrochemicals, and steel. Additional
  petrochemical, aluminum, and plastics projects are in various stages
  of planning. Trinidad and Tobago is the leading Caribbean producer
  of oil and gas, and its economy is heavily dependent upon these
  resources but it also supplies manufactured goods, notably food and
  beverages, as well as cement to the Caribbean region. Oil and gas
  account for about 40% of GDP and 80% of exports, but only 5% of
  employment. The country is also a regional financial center, and
  tourism is a growing sector, although it is not proportionately as
  important as in many other Caribbean islands. The economy benefits
  from a growing trade surplus. Economic growth reached 12.6% in 2006
  and 5.5% in 2007 as prices for oil, petrochemicals, and LNG remained
  high, and as foreign direct investment continued to grow to support
  expanded capacity in the energy sector.

Tunisia
  Tunisia has a diverse economy, with important agricultural,
  mining, tourism, and manufacturing sectors. Governmental control of
  economic affairs while still heavy has gradually lessened over the
  past decade with increasing privatization, simplification of the tax
  structure, and a prudent approach to debt. Progressive social
  policies also have helped raise living conditions in Tunisia
  relative to the region. Real growth, which averaged almost 5% over
  the past decade, reached 6.3% in 2007 because of development in
  non-textile manufacturing, a recovery in agricultural production,
  and strong growth in the services sector. However, Tunisia will need
  to reach even higher growth levels to create sufficient employment
  opportunities for an already large number of unemployed as well as
  the growing population of university graduates. Broader
  privatization, further liberalization of the investment code to
  increase foreign investment, improvements in government efficiency,
  and reduction of the trade deficit are among the challenges ahead.

Turkey
  Turkey's dynamic economy is a complex mix of modern industry
  and commerce along with a traditional agriculture sector that still
  accounts for more than 35% of employment. It has a strong and
  rapidly growing private sector, yet the state still plays a major
  role in basic industry, banking, transport, and communication. The
  largest industrial sector is textiles and clothing, which accounts
  for one-third of industrial employment; it faces stiff competition
  in international markets with the end of the global quota system.
  However, other sectors, notably the automotive and electronics
  industries, are rising in importance within Turkey's export mix.
  Real GNP growth has exceeded 6% in many years, but this strong
  expansion has been interrupted by sharp declines in output in 1994,
  1999, and 2001. The economy is turning around with the
  implementation of economic reforms, and 2004 GDP growth reached 9%,
  followed by roughly 5% annual growth from 2005-07. Inflation fell to
  7.7% in 2005 - a 30-year low - but climbed back to 8.5% in 2007.
  Despite the strong economic gains from 2002-07, which were largely
  due to renewed investor interest in emerging markets, IMF backing,
  and tighter fiscal policy, the economy is still burdened by a high
  current account deficit and high external debt. Further economic and
  judicial reforms and prospective EU membership are expected to boost
  foreign direct investment. The stock value of FDI currently stands
  at about $85 billion. Privatization sales are currently approaching
  $21 billion. Oil began to flow through the Baku-Tblisi-Ceyhan
  pipeline in May 2006, marking a major milestone that will bring up
  to 1 million barrels per day from the Caspian to market. In 2007,
  Turkish financial markets weathered significant domestic political
  turmoil, including turbulence sparked by controversy over the
  selection of former Foreign Minister Abdullah GUL as Turkey's 11th
  president. Economic fundamentals are sound, marked by strong
  economic growth and foreign direct investment. Turkey's high current
  account deficit leaves the economy vulnerable to destabilizing
  shifts in investor confidence, however.

Turkmenistan
  Turkmenistan is a largely desert country with intensive
  agriculture in irrigated oases and large gas and oil resources.
  One-half of its irrigated land is planted in cotton; formerly it was
  the world's 10th-largest producer. Poor harvests in recent years
  have led to an almost 50% decline in cotton exports. With an
  authoritarian ex-Communist regime in power and a tribally based
  social structure, Turkmenistan has taken a cautious approach to
  economic reform, hoping to use gas and cotton sales to sustain its
  inefficient economy. Privatization goals remain limited. From
  1998-2005, Turkmenistan suffered from the continued lack of adequate
  export routes for natural gas and from obligations on extensive
  short-term external debt. At the same time, however, total exports
  rose by an average of roughly 15% per year from 2003-07, largely
  because of higher international oil and gas prices. Overall
  prospects in the near future are discouraging because of widespread
  internal poverty, a poor educational system, government misuse of
  oil and gas revenues, and Ashgabat's reluctance to adopt
  market-oriented reforms. In the past, Turkmenistan's economic
  statistics were state secrets. The new government has established a
  State Agency for Statistics, but GDP numbers and other figures are
  subject to wide margins of error. In particular, the rate of GDP
  growth is uncertain. Since his election, President BERDIMUHAMEDOW
  has sought to improve the health and education systems, ordered
  unification of the country's dual currency exchange rate, begun
  decreasing state subsidies for gasoline, signed an agreement to
  build a gas line to China, and created a special tourism zone on the
  Caspian Sea. All of these moves hint that the new post-NYYAZOW
  government will work to create a friendlier foreign investment
  environment.

Turks and Caicos Islands
  The Turks and Caicos economy is based on
  tourism, offshore financial services, and fishing. Most capital
  goods and food for domestic consumption are imported. The US is the
  leading source of tourists, accounting for more than three-quarters
  of the 175,000 visitors that arrived in 2004. Major sources of
  government revenue also include fees from offshore financial
  activities and customs receipts.

Tuvalu
  Tuvalu consists of a densely populated, scattered group of
  nine coral atolls with poor soil. The country has no known mineral
  resources and few exports. Subsistence farming and fishing are the
  primary economic activities. Fewer than 1,000 tourists, on average,
  visit Tuvalu annually. Job opportunities are scarce and public
  sector workers make up the majority of those employed. About 15% of
  the adult male population work as seamen on merchant ships abroad
  and remittances are a vital source of income, contributing around $4
  million in 2006. Substantial income is received annually from the
  Tuvalu Trust Fund (TTF), an international trust fund established in
  1987 by Australia, NZ, and the UK and supported also by Japan and
  South Korea. Thanks to wise investments and conservative
  withdrawals, this fund grew from an initial $17 million to an
  estimated value of $77 million in 2006. The TFF contributed nearly
  $9 million towards the government budget in 2006 and is an important
  cushion for meeting shortfalls in the government's budget. The US
  Government is also a major revenue source for Tuvalu because of
  payments from a 1988 treaty on fisheries. In an effort to ensure
  financial stability and sustainability, the government is pursuing
  public sector reforms, including privatization of some government
  functions and personnel cuts. Tuvalu also derives royalties from the
  lease of its ".tv" Internet domain name, with revenue of more than
  $2 million in 2006. A minor source of government revenue comes from
  the sale of stamps and coins. With merchandise exports only a
  fraction of merchandise imports, continued reliance must be placed
  on fishing and telecommunications license fees, remittances from
  overseas workers, official transfers, and income from overseas
  investments. Growing income disparities and the vulnerability of the
  country to climatic change are among leading concerns for the nation.

Uganda
  Uganda has substantial natural resources, including fertile
  soils, regular rainfall, and sizable mineral deposits of copper,
  cobalt, gold, and other minerals. Agriculture is the most important
  sector of the economy, employing over 80% of the work force. Coffee
  accounts for the bulk of export revenues. Since 1986, the government
  - with the support of foreign countries and international agencies -
  has acted to rehabilitate and stabilize the economy by undertaking
  currency reform, raising producer prices on export crops, increasing
  prices of petroleum products, and improving civil service wages. The
  policy changes are especially aimed at dampening inflation and
  boosting production and export earnings. During 1990-2001, the
  economy turned in a solid performance based on continued investment
  in the rehabilitation of infrastructure, improved incentives for
  production and exports, reduced inflation, gradually improved
  domestic security, and the return of exiled Indian-Ugandan
  entrepreneurs. Growth continues to be solid, despite variability in
  the price of coffee, Uganda's principal export, and a consistent
  upturn in Uganda's export markets. In 2000, Uganda qualified for
  enhanced Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) debt relief worth
  $1.3 billion and Paris Club debt relief worth $145 million. These
  amounts combined with the original HIPC debt relief added up to
  about $2 billion.

Ukraine
  After Russia, the Ukrainian republic was far and away the
  most important economic component of the former Soviet Union,
  producing about four times the output of the next-ranking republic.
  Its fertile black soil generated more than one-fourth of Soviet
  agricultural output, and its farms provided substantial quantities
  of meat, milk, grain, and vegetables to other republics. Likewise,
  its diversified heavy industry supplied the unique equipment (for
  example, large diameter pipes) and raw materials to industrial and
  mining sites (vertical drilling apparatus) in other regions of the
  former USSR. Shortly after independence was ratified in December
  1991, the Ukrainian Government liberalized most prices and erected a
  legal framework for privatization, but widespread resistance to
  reform within the government and the legislature soon stalled reform
  efforts and led to some backtracking. Output by 1999 had fallen to
  less than 40% of the 1991 level. Ukraine's dependence on Russia for
  energy supplies and the lack of significant structural reform have
  made the Ukrainian economy vulnerable to external shocks. Ukraine
  depends on imports to meet about three-fourths of its annual oil and
  natural gas requirements. A dispute with Russia over pricing in late
  2005 and early 2006 led to a temporary gas cut-off; Ukraine
  concluded a deal with Russia in January 2006 that almost doubled the
  price Ukraine pays for Russian gas. Outside institutions -
  particularly the IMF - have encouraged Ukraine to quicken the pace
  and scope of reforms. Ukrainian Government officials eliminated most
  tax and customs privileges in a March 2005 budget law, bringing more
  economic activity out of Ukraine's large shadow economy, but more
  improvements are needed, including fighting corruption, developing
  capital markets, and improving the legislative framework. Ukraine's
  economy remains buoyant despite political turmoil between the Prime
  Minister and President. Real GDP growth reached about 7% in 2006-07,
  fueled by high global prices for steel - Ukraine's top export - and
  by strong domestic consumption, spurred by rising pensions and
  wages. Although the economy is likely to expand in 2008, long-term
  growth could be threatened by the government's plans to reinstate
  tax, trade, and customs privileges and to maintain restrictive grain
  export quotas.

United Arab Emirates
  The UAE has an open economy with a high per
  capita income and a sizable annual trade surplus. Despite largely
  successful efforts at economic diversification, nearly 40% of GDP is
  still directly based on oil and gas output. Since the discovery of
  oil in the UAE more than 30 years ago, the UAE has undergone a
  profound transformation from an impoverished region of small desert
  principalities to a modern state with a high standard of living. The
  government has increased spending on job creation and infrastructure
  expansion and is opening up utilities to greater private sector
  involvement. In April 2004, the UAE signed a Trade and Investment
  Framework Agreement with Washington and in November 2004 agreed to
  undertake negotiations toward a Free Trade Agreement with the US.
  The country's Free Trade Zones - offering 100% foreign ownership and
  zero taxes - are helping to attract foreign investors. Higher oil
  revenue, strong liquidity, housing shortages, and cheap credit in
  2005-07 led to a surge in asset prices (shares and real estate) and
  consumer inflation. Rising prices are increasing the operating costs
  for businesses in the UAE and adversely impacting government
  employees and others on fixed incomes. Dependence on oil and a large
  expatriate workforce are significant long-term challenges. The UAE's
  strategic plan for the next few years focuses on diversification and
  creating more opportunities for nationals through improved education
  and increased private sector employment.

United Kingdom
  The UK, a leading trading power and financial center,
  is one of the quintet of trillion dollar economies of Western
  Europe. Over the past two decades, the government has greatly
  reduced public ownership and contained the growth of social welfare
  programs. Agriculture is intensive, highly mechanized, and efficient
  by European standards, producing about 60% of food needs with less
  than 2% of the labor force. The UK has large coal, natural gas, and
  oil reserves; primary energy production accounts for 10% of GDP, one
  of the highest shares of any industrial nation. Services,
  particularly banking, insurance, and business services, account by
  far for the largest proportion of GDP while industry continues to
  decline in importance. Since emerging from recession in 1992,
  Britain's economy has enjoyed the longest period of expansion on
  record; growth has remained in the 2-3% range since 2004, outpacing
  most of Europe. The economy's strength has complicated the Labor
  government's efforts to make a case for Britain to join the European
  Economic and Monetary Union (EMU). Critics point out that the
  economy is doing well outside of EMU, and public opinion polls show
  a majority of Britons are opposed to the euro. The BROWN government
  has been speeding up the improvement of education, health services,
  and affordable housing at a cost in higher taxes and a widening
  public deficit.

United States
  The US has the largest and most technologically
  powerful economy in the world, with a per capita GDP of $46,000. In
  this market-oriented economy, private individuals and business firms
  make most of the decisions, and the federal and state governments
  buy needed goods and services predominantly in the private
  marketplace. US business firms enjoy greater flexibility than their
  counterparts in Western Europe and Japan in decisions to expand
  capital plant, to lay off surplus workers, and to develop new
  products. At the same time, they face higher barriers to enter their
  rivals' home markets than foreign firms face entering US markets. US
  firms are at or near the forefront in technological advances,
  especially in computers and in medical, aerospace, and military
  equipment; their advantage has narrowed since the end of World War
  II. The onrush of technology largely explains the gradual
  development of a "two-tier labor market" in which those at the
  bottom lack the education and the professional/technical skills of
  those at the top and, more and more, fail to get comparable pay
  raises, health insurance coverage, and other benefits. Since 1975,
  practically all the gains in household income have gone to the top
  20% of households. The response to the terrorist attacks of 11
  September 2001 showed the remarkable resilience of the economy. The
  war in March-April 2003 between a US-led coalition and Iraq, and the
  subsequent occupation of Iraq, required major shifts in national
  resources to the military. The rise in GDP in 2004-07 was
  undergirded by substantial gains in labor productivity. Hurricane
  Katrina caused extensive damage in the Gulf Coast region in August
  2005, but had a small impact on overall GDP growth for the year.
  Soaring oil prices in 2005-2007 threatened inflation and
  unemployment, yet the economy continued to grow through year-end
  2007. Imported oil accounts for about two-thirds of US consumption.
  Long-term problems include inadequate investment in economic
  infrastructure, rapidly rising medical and pension costs of an aging
  population, sizable trade and budget deficits, and stagnation of
  family income in the lower economic groups. The merchandise trade
  deficit reached a record $847 billion in 2007. Together, these
  problems caused a marked reduction in the value and status of the
  dollar worldwide in 2007.

United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
  no economic activity

Uruguay
  Uruguay's economy is characterized by an export-oriented
  agricultural sector, a well-educated work force, and high levels of
  social spending. After averaging growth of 5% annually during
  1996-98, in 1999-2002 the economy suffered a major downturn,
  stemming largely from the spillover effects of the economic problems
  of its large neighbors, Argentina and Brazil. For instance, in
  2001-02 Argentina made massive withdrawals of dollars deposited in
  Uruguayan banks, which led to a plunge in the Uruguayan peso and a
  massive rise in unemployment. Total GDP in these four years dropped
  by nearly 20%, with 2002 the worst year due to the banking crisis.
  The unemployment rate rose to nearly 20% in 2002, inflation surged,
  and the burden of external debt doubled. Cooperation with the IMF
  helped stem the damage. Uruguay in 2007 improved its debt profile by
  paying off $1.1 billion in IMF debt, and continues to follow the
  orthodox economic plan set by the Fund in 2005. The construction of
  a pulp mill in Fray Bentos, which represents the largest foreign
  direct investment in Uruguay's history at $1.2 billion, came online
  in November 2007 and is expected to add 1.6% to GDP and boost
  already rising exports. The economy has grown strongly since 2004 as
  a result of high commodity prices for Uruguayan exports, a strong
  peso, growth in the region, and low international interest rates.

Uzbekistan
  Uzbekistan is a dry, landlocked country of which 11%
  consists of intensely cultivated, irrigated river valleys. More than
  60% of its population lives in densely populated rural communities.
  Uzbekistan is now the world's second-largest cotton exporter and
  fifth largest producer; it relies heavily on cotton production as
  the major source of export earnings. Other major export earners
  include gold, natural gas, and oil. Following independence in
  September 1991, the government sought to prop up its Soviet-style
  command economy with subsidies and tight controls on production and
  prices. While aware of the need to improve the investment climate,
  the government still sponsors measures that often increase, not
  decrease, its control over business decisions. A sharp increase in
  the inequality of income distribution has hurt the lower ranks of
  society since independence. In 2003, the government accepted Article
  VIII obligations under the IMF, providing for full currency
  convertibility. However, strict currency controls and tightening of
  borders have lessened the effects of convertibility and have also
  led to some shortages that have further stifled economic activity.
  The Central Bank often delays or restricts convertibility,
  especially for consumer goods. Potential investment by Russia and
  China in Uzbekistan's gas and oil industry may boost growth
  prospects. In November 2005, Russian President Vladimir PUTIN and
  Uzbekistan President KARIMOV signed an "alliance," which included
  provisions for economic and business cooperation. Russian businesses
  have shown increased interest in Uzbekistan, especially in mining,
  telecom, and oil and gas. In 2006, Uzbekistan took steps to rejoin
  the Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO) and the Eurasian
  Economic Community (EurASEC), both organizations dominated by
  Russia. Uzbek authorities have accused US and other foreign
  companies operating in Uzbekistan of violating Uzbek tax laws and
  have frozen their assets.

Vanuatu
  This South Pacific island economy is based primarily on
  small-scale agriculture, which provides a living for 65% of the
  population. Fishing, offshore financial services, and tourism, with
  more than 60,000 visitors in 2005, are other mainstays of the
  economy. Mineral deposits are negligible; the country has no known
  petroleum deposits. A small light industry sector caters to the
  local market. Tax revenues come mainly from import duties. Economic
  development is hindered by dependence on relatively few commodity
  exports, vulnerability to natural disasters, and long distances from
  main markets and between constituent islands. In response to foreign
  concerns, the government has promised to tighten regulation of its
  offshore financial center. In mid-2002 the government stepped up
  efforts to boost tourism through improved air connections, resort
  development, and cruise ship facilities. Agriculture, especially
  livestock farming, is a second target for growth. Australia and New
  Zealand are the main suppliers of tourists and foreign aid.

Venezuela
  Venezuela remains highly dependent on oil revenues, which
  account for roughly 90% of export earnings, more than 50% of the
  federal budget revenues, and around 30% of GDP. A nationwide strike
  between December 2002 and February 2003 had far-reaching economic
  consequences - real GDP declined by around 9% in 2002 and 8% in 2003
  - but economic output since then has recovered strongly. Fueled by
  high oil prices, record government spending helped to boost GDP in
  2006 by about 9% and in 2007 by about 8%. This spending, combined
  with recent minimum wage hikes and improved access to domestic
  credit, has created a consumption boom but has come at the cost of
  higher inflation-roughly 20 percent in 2007. Imports also have
  jumped significantly. Embolden by his December 2006 reelection,
  President Hugo CHAVEZ in 2007 nationalized firms in the petroleum,
  communications, and electricity sectors, which reduced foreign
  influence in the economy. Although voters in December 2007 rejected
  CHAVEZ's proposed constitutional changes, CHAVEZ still has
  significant control of the economy and has indicated he intends to
  continue to consolidate and centralize authority over the economy by
  implementing "21st Century Socialism."

Vietnam
  Vietnam is a densely-populated developing country that in
  the last 30 years has had to recover from the ravages of war, the
  loss of financial support from the old Soviet Bloc, and the
  rigidities of a centrally-planned economy. Economic stagnation
  marked the period after reunification from 1975 to 1985. In 1986,
  the Sixth Party Congress approved a broad economic reform package
  that introduced market reforms and set the groundwork for Vietnam's
  improved investment climate. Substantial progress was achieved from
  1986 to 1997 in moving forward from an extremely low level of
  development and significantly reducing poverty. The 1997 Asian
  financial crisis highlighted the problems in the Vietnamese economy
  and temporarily allowed opponents of reform to slow progress toward
  a market-oriented economy. GDP growth averaged 6.8% per year from
  1997 to 2004 even against the background of the Asian financial
  crisis and a global recession. Since 2001, Vietnamese authorities
  have reaffirmed their commitment to economic liberalization and
  international integration. They have moved to implement the
  structural reforms needed to modernize the economy and to produce
  more competitive, export-driven industries. The economy grew 8.5% in
  2007. Vietnam's membership in the ASEAN Free Trade Area (AFTA) and
  entry into force of the US-Vietnam Bilateral Trade Agreement in
  December 2001 have led to even more rapid changes in Vietnam's trade
  and economic regime. Vietnam's exports to the US increased 900% from
  2001 to 2007. Vietnam joined the WTO in January 2007, following over
  a decade long negotiation process. WTO membership has provided
  Vietnam an anchor to the global market and reinforced the domestic
  economic reform process. Among other benefits, accession allows
  Vietnam to take advantage of the phase-out of the Agreement on
  Textiles and Clothing, which eliminated quotas on textiles and
  clothing for WTO partners on 1 January 2005. Agriculture's share of
  economic output has continued to shrink, from about 25% in 2000 to
  less than 20% in 2007. Deep poverty, defined as a percent of the
  population living under $1 per day, has declined significantly and
  is now smaller than that of China, India, and the Philippines.
  Vietnam is working to create jobs to meet the challenge of a labor
  force that is growing by more than one-and-a-half million people
  every year. In an effort to stem high inflation which took off in
  2007, early in 2008 Vietnamese authorities began to raise benchmark
  interest rates and reserve requirements. Hanoi is targeting an
  economic growth rate of 7.5-8% during the next four years.

Virgin Islands
  Tourism is the primary economic activity, accounting
  for 80% of GDP and employment. The islands hosted 2.6 million
  visitors in 2005. The manufacturing sector consists of petroleum
  refining, textiles, electronics, pharmaceuticals, and watch
  assembly. One of the world's largest petroleum refineries is at
  Saint Croix. The agricultural sector is small, with most food being
  imported. International business and financial services are small
  but growing components of the economy. The islands are vulnerable to
  substantial damage from storms. The government is working to improve
  fiscal discipline, to support construction projects in the private
  sector, to expand tourist facilities, to reduce crime, and to
  protect the environment.

Wake Island
  Economic activity is limited to providing services to
  military personnel and contractors located on the island. All food
  and manufactured goods must be imported.

Wallis and Futuna
  The economy is limited to traditional subsistence
  agriculture, with about 80% of labor force earnings from agriculture
  (coconuts and vegetables), livestock (mostly pigs), and fishing.
  About 4% of the population is employed in government. Revenues come
  from French Government subsidies, licensing of fishing rights to
  Japan and South Korea, import taxes, and remittances from expatriate
  workers in New Caledonia.

West Bank
  The West Bank - the larger of the two areas comprising the
  Palestinian Authority (PA) - has experienced a general decline in
  economic conditions since the second intifada began in September
  2000. The downturn has been largely a result of Israeli closure
  policies - the imposition of closures and access restrictions in
  response to security concerns in Israel - which disrupted labor and
  trading relationships. In 2001, and even more severely in 2002,
  Israeli military measures in PA areas resulted in the destruction of
  capital, the disruption of administrative structures, and widespread
  business closures. International aid of at least $1.14 billion to
  the West Bank and Gaza Strip in 2004 prevented the complete collapse
  of the economy and allowed some reforms in the government's
  financial operations. In 2005, high unemployment and limited trade
  opportunities - due to continued closures both within the West Bank
  and externally - stymied growth. Israel's and the international
  community's financial embargo of the PA when HAMAS ran the PA during
  March 2006 - June 2007 has interrupted the provision of PA social
  services and the payment of PA salaries. Since June the Fayyad
  government in the West Bank has restarted salary payments and the
  provision of services but would be unable to operate absent high
  levels of international assistance.

Western Sahara
  Western Sahara depends on pastoral nomadism, fishing,
  and phosphate mining as the principal sources of income for the
  population. The territory lacks sufficient rainfall for sustainable
  agricultural production, and most of the food for the urban
  population must be imported. Incomes in Western Sahara are
  substantially below the Moroccan level. The Moroccan Government
  controls all trade and other economic activities in Western Sahara.
  Morocco and the EU signed a four-year agreement in July 2006
  allowing European vessels to fish off the coast of Morocco,
  including the disputed waters off the coast of Western Sahara.
  Moroccan energy interests in 2001 signed contracts to explore for
  oil off the coast of Western Sahara, which has angered the
  Polisario. However, in 2006 the Polisario awarded similar
  exploration licenses in the disputed territory, which would come
  into force if Morocco and the Polisario resolve their dispute over
  Western Sahara.

World
  Global output rose by 5.2% in 2007, led by China (11.4%),
  India (9.2%), and Russia (8.1%). The 14 other successor nations of
  the USSR and the other old Warsaw Pact nations again experienced
  widely divergent growth rates; the three Baltic nations continued as
  strong performers, in the 8%-10% range of growth. From 2006 to 2007
  growth rates slowed in all the major industrial countries except for
  the United Kingdom (3.1%). Analysts attribute the slowdown to
  uncertainties in the financial markets and lowered consumer
  confidence. Worldwide, nations varied widely in their growth
  results. Externally, the nation-state, as a bedrock
  economic-political institution, is steadily losing control over
  international flows of people, goods, funds, and technology.
  Internally, the central government often finds its control over
  resources slipping as separatist regional movements - typically
  based on ethnicity - gain momentum, e.g., in many of the successor
  states of the former Soviet Union, in the former Yugoslavia, in
  India, in Iraq, in Indonesia, and in Canada. Externally, the central
  government is losing decisionmaking powers to international bodies,
  notably the EU. In Western Europe, governments face the difficult
  political problem of channeling resources away from welfare programs
  in order to increase investment and strengthen incentives to seek
  employment. The addition of 80 million people each year to an
  already overcrowded globe is exacerbating the problems of pollution,
  desertification, underemployment, epidemics, and famine. Because of
  their own internal problems and priorities, the industrialized
  countries devote insufficient resources to deal effectively with the
  poorer areas of the world, which, at least from an economic point of
  view, are becoming further marginalized. The introduction of the
  euro as the common currency of much of Western Europe in January
  1999, while paving the way for an integrated economic powerhouse,
  poses economic risks because of varying levels of income and
  cultural and political differences among the participating nations.
  The terrorist attacks on the US on 11 September 2001 accentuated a
  growing risk to global prosperity, illustrated, for example, by the
  reallocation of resources away from investment to anti-terrorist
  programs. The opening of war in March 2003 between a US-led
  coalition and Iraq added new uncertainties to global economic
  prospects. After the initial coalition victory, the complex
  political difficulties and the high economic cost of establishing
  domestic order in Iraq became major global problems that continued
  through 2007.

Yemen
  Yemen, one of the poorest countries in the Arab world,
  reported average annual growth in the range of 3-4% from 2000
  through 2007. Its economic fortunes depend mostly on declining oil
  resources, but the country is trying to diversify its earnings. In
  2006 Yemen began an economic reform program designed to bolster
  non-oil sectors of the economy and foreign investment. As a result
  of the program, international donors pledged about $5 billion for
  development projects. In addition, Yemen has made some progress on
  reforms over the last year that will likely encourage foreign
  investment. Oil revenues probably increased in 2007 as a result of
  higher prices.

Zambia
  Zambia's economy has experienced modest growth in recent
  years, with real GDP growth in 2005-07 between 5-6% per year.
  Privatization of government-owned copper mines in the 1990s relieved
  the government from covering mammoth losses generated by the
  industry and greatly improved the chances for copper mining to
  return to profitability and spur economic growth. Copper output has
  increased steadily since 2004, due to higher copper prices and
  foreign investment. In 2005, Zambia qualified for debt relief under
  the Highly Indebted Poor Country Initiative, consisting of
  approximately USD 6 billion in debt relief. Zambia experienced a
  bumper harvest in 2007, which helped to boost GDP and agricultural
  exports and contain inflation. Although poverty continues to be
  significant problem in Zambia, its economy has strengthened,
  featuring single-digit inflation, a relatively stable currency,
  decreasing interest rates, and increasing levels of trade.

Zimbabwe
  The government of Zimbabwe faces a wide variety of
  difficult economic problems as it struggles with an unsustainable
  fiscal deficit, an overvalued official exchange rate,
  hyperinflation, and bare store shelves. Its 1998-2002 involvement in
  the war in the Democratic Republic of the Congo drained hundreds of
  millions of dollars from the economy. The government's land reform
  program, characterized by chaos and violence, has badly damaged the
  commercial farming sector, the traditional source of exports and
  foreign exchange and the provider of 400,000 jobs, turning Zimbabwe
  into a net importer of food products. The EU and the US provide food
  aid on humanitarian grounds. Badly needed support from the IMF has
  been suspended because of the government's arrears on past loans and
  the government's unwillingness to enact reforms that would stabilize
  the economy. The Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe routinely prints money to
  fund the budget deficit, causing the official annual inflation rate
  to rise from 32% in 1998, to 133% in 2004, 585% in 2005, passed
  1000% in 2006, and 26000% in November 2007. Private sector estimates
  of inflation in 2007 are well above 100,000%. Meanwhile, the
  official exchange rate fell from approximately 1 (revalued)
  Zimbabwean dollar per US dollar in 2003 to 30,000 per US dollar in
  2007.

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2117  Pipelines (km)


Afghanistan
  gas 466 km (2007)

Albania
  gas 339 km; oil 207 km (2007)

Algeria
  condensate 1,532 km; gas 13,861 km; liquid petroleum gas
  2,408 km; oil 6,878 km (2007)

Angola
  gas 234 km; liquid petroleum gas 85 km; oil 896 km;
  oil/gas/water 5 km (2007)

Argentina
  gas 28,657 km; liquid petroleum gas 41 km; oil 5,607 km;
  refined products 3,052 km; unknown (oil/water) 13 km (2007)

Armenia
  gas 2,036 km (2007)

Australia
  condensate/gas 469 km; gas 26,719 km; liquid petroleum gas
  240 km; oil 3,720 km; oil/gas/water 110 km (2007)

Austria
  gas 2,722 km; oil 663 km; refined products 157 km (2007)

Azerbaijan
  gas 3,857 km; oil 2,436 km (2007)

Bahrain
  gas 20 km; oil 52 km (2007)

Bangladesh
  gas 2,644 km (2007)

Belarus
  gas 5,250 km; oil 1,528 km; refined products 1,730 km (2007)

Belgium
  gas 1,562 km; oil 158 km; refined products 535 km (2007)

Bolivia
  gas 4,860 km; liquid petroleum gas 47 km; oil 2,475 km;
  refined products 1,589 km; unknown (oil/water) 247 km (2007)

Brazil
  condensate/gas 244 km; gas 12,070 km; liquid petroleum gas
  351 km; oil 5,214 km; refined products 4,410 km (2007)

Brunei
  gas 672 km; oil 463 km (2007)

Bulgaria
  gas 2,500 km; oil 339 km; refined products 156 km (2007)

Burma
  gas 2,790 km; oil 558 km (2007)

Cameroon
  gas 27 km; liquid petroleum gas 5 km; oil 1,110 km (2007)

Canada
  crude and refined oil 23,564 km; liquid petroleum gas 74,980
  km (2006)

Chad
  oil 250 km (2007)

Chile
  gas 2,550 km; gas/liquid petroleum gas 42 km; liquid petroleum
  gas 539 km; oil 1,002 km; refined products 757 km; unknown
  (oil/water) 97 km (2007)

China
  gas 26,344 km; oil 17,240 km; refined products 6,106 km (2007)

Colombia
  gas 4,329 km; oil 6,140 km; refined products 3,145 km (2007)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  gas 62 km; oil 71 km (2007)

Congo, Republic of the
  gas 89 km; liquid petroleum gas 4 km; oil 758
  km (2007)

Costa Rica
  refined products 242 km (2007)

Cote d'Ivoire
  condensate 102 km; gas 245 km; oil 112 km (2007)

Croatia
  gas 1,556 km; oil 583 km (2007)

Cuba
  gas 49 km; oil 230 km (2007)

Czech Republic
  gas 7,010 km; oil 547 km; refined products 94 km
  (2007)

Denmark
  condensate 11 km; gas 4,073 km; oil 617 km; oil/gas/water 2
  km (2007)

Ecuador
  extra heavy crude oil 578 km; gas 71 km; oil 1,389 km;
  refined products 1,185 km (2007)

Egypt
  condensate 483 km; condensate/gas 74 km; gas 6,466 km; liquid
  petroleum gas 957 km; oil 5,518 km; oil/gas/water 37 km; refined
  products 895 km (2007)

Equatorial Guinea
  condensate 42 km; condensate/gas 5 km; gas 80 km;
  oil 54 km (2007)

Estonia
  gas 859 km (2007)

Finland
  gas 694 km (2007)

France
  gas 14,665 km; oil 3,032 km; refined products 4,947 km (2007)

Gabon
  gas 384 km; oil 1,427 km (2007)

Georgia
  gas 1,591 km; oil 1,253 km (2007)

Germany
  condensate 37 km; gas 25,094 km; oil 3,546 km; refined
  products 3,828 km (2007)

Ghana
  oil 13 km; refined products 316 km (2007)

Greece
  gas 1,166 km; oil 94 km (2007)

Guatemala
  oil 480 km (2007)

Hungary
  gas 4,397 km; oil 990 km; refined products 335 km (2007)

India
  condensate/gas 9 km; gas 7,488 km; liquid petroleum gas 1,861
  km; oil 7,883 km; refined products 6,422 km (2007)

Indonesia
  condensate 963 km; condensate/gas 81 km; gas 9,003 km; oil
  7,471 km; oil/gas/water 77 km; refined products 1,365 km (2007)

Iran
  condensate 7 km; condensate/gas 397 km; gas 19,161 km; liquid
  petroleum gas 570 km; oil 8,438 km; refined products 7,936 km (2007)

Iraq
  gas 2,250 km; liquid petroleum gas 918 km; oil 5,509 km;
  refined products 1,637 km (2007)

Ireland
  gas 1,855 km (2007)

Israel
  gas 160 km; oil 442 km; refined products 261 km (2007)

Italy
  gas 18,863 km; oil 1,258 km (2007)

Japan
  gas 3,939 km; oil 170 km; oil/gas/water 104 km (2007)

Jordan
  gas 426 km; oil 49 km (2007)

Kazakhstan
  condensate 658 km; gas 11,082 km; oil 10,376 km; refined
  products 1,095 km (2007)

Kenya
  refined products 900 km (2007)

Korea, North
  oil 154 km (2007)

Korea, South
  gas 1,482 km; refined products 827 km (2007)

Kuwait
  gas 269 km; oil 540 km; refined products 57 km (2007)

Kyrgyzstan
  gas 254 km; oil 16 km (2007)

Laos
  refined products 540 km (2007)

Latvia
  gas 948 km; oil 82 km; refined products 415 km (2007)

Lebanon
  gas 43 km (2007)

Libya
  condensate 882 km; gas 3,425 km; oil 6,956 km (2007)

Liechtenstein
  gas 20 km (2007)

Lithuania
  gas 1,695 km; oil 228 km; refined products 121 km (2007)

Luxembourg
  gas 155 km (2007)

Macedonia
  gas 268 km; oil 120 km (2007)

Malaysia
  condensate 282 km; gas 5,273 km; oil 1,750 km;
  oil/gas/water 19 km; refined products 114 km (2007)

Mexico
  gas 22,705 km; liquid petroleum gas 1,875 km; oil 8,688 km;
  oil/gas/water 228 km; refined products 6,520 km (2006)

Moldova
  gas 1,980 km (2007)

Morocco
  gas 720 km; oil 439 km (2007)

Mozambique
  gas 964 km; refined products 278 km (2007)

Netherlands
  condensate 81 km; gas 7,394 km; oil 578 km; refined
  products 716 km (2007)

New Zealand
  condensate 331 km; gas 1,896 km; liquid petroleum gas
  172 km; oil 288 km; refined products 260 km (2007)

Nicaragua
  oil 54 km (2007)

Nigeria
  condensate 124 km; gas 3,071 km; liquid petroleum gas 156
  km; oil 4,347 km; refined products 3,949 km (2007)

Norway
  condensate 508 km; gas 6,529 km; oil 2,444 km; oil/gas/water
  457 km (2007)

Oman
  gas 4,126 km; oil 3,558 km (2007)

Pakistan
  gas 10,398 km; oil 2,076 km (2007)

Papua New Guinea
  oil 264 km (2007)

Peru
  gas 1,181 km; gas/liquid petroleum gas 61 km; liquid natural
  gas 106 km; liquid petroleum gas 517 km; oil 1,749 km; refined
  products 13 km (2007)

Philippines
  gas 565 km; oil 135 km; refined products 105 km (2007)

Poland
  gas 13,552 km; oil 1,384 km; refined products 777 km (2007)

Portugal
  gas 1,098 km; oil 11 km; refined products 188 km (2007)

Qatar
  condensate 322 km; condensate/gas 209 km; gas 1,970 km; liquid
  petroleum gas 87 km; oil 741 km (2007)

Romania
  gas 3,674 km; oil 2,424 km (2007)

Russia
  condensate 122 km; gas 158,699 km; oil 72,347 km; refined
  products 13,658 km (2007)

Saudi Arabia
  condensate 212 km; gas 1,880 km; liquid petroleum gas
  1,183 km; oil 4,521 km; refined products 1,148 km (2007)

Senegal
  gas 43 km (2007)

Serbia
  gas 1,921 km; oil 393 km (2007)

Singapore
  gas 139 km; refined products 8 km (2007)

Slovakia
  gas 6,769 km; oil 416 km (2007)

Slovenia
  gas 840 km; oil 11 km (2007)

South Africa
  condensate 100 km; gas 1,177 km; oil 992 km; refined
  products 1,379 km (2007)

Spain
  gas 7,858 km; oil 622 km; refined products 3,445 km (2007)

Sudan
  gas 156 km; oil 4,070 km; refined products 1,613 km (2007)

Suriname
  oil 50 km (2007)

Sweden
  gas 798 km (2007)

Switzerland
  gas 1,781 km; oil 94 km; refined products 7 km (2007)

Syria
  gas 2,794 km; oil 2,000 km (2007)

Taiwan
  condensate 25 km; gas 661 km (2007)

Tajikistan
  gas 549 km; oil 38 km (2007)

Tanzania
  gas 287 km; oil 891 km (2007)

Thailand
  gas 4,381 km; refined products 320 km (2007)

Trinidad and Tobago
  condensate 245 km; gas 1,320 km; oil 563 km
  (2007)

Tunisia
  gas 2,665 km; oil 1,235 km; refined products 353 km (2007)

Turkey
  gas 7,511 km; oil 3,636 km (2007)

Turkmenistan
  gas 6,441 km; oil 1,361 km (2007)

Ukraine
  gas 33,721 km; oil 4,514 km; refined products 4,211 km (2007)

United Arab Emirates
  condensate 520 km; gas 2,908 km; liquid
  petroleum gas 300 km; oil 2,950 km; oil/gas/water 5 km; refined
  products 156 km (2007)

United Kingdom
  condensate 567 km; condensate/gas 22 km; gas 18,980
  km; liquid petroleum gas 59 km; oil 4,930 km; oil/gas/water 165 km;
  refined products 4,444 km (2007)

United States
  petroleum products 244,620 km; natural gas 548,665 km
  (2006)

Uruguay
  gas 257 km; oil 160 km (2007)

Uzbekistan
  gas 9,725 km; oil 868 km (2007)

Venezuela
  extra heavy crude oil 992 km; gas 5,400 km; oil 7,607 km;
  refined products 1,650 km; unknown (oil/water) 141 km (2007)

Vietnam
  condensate/gas 432 km; gas 510 km; oil 49 km; refined
  products 206 km (2007)

Yemen
  gas 71 km; liquid petroleum gas 22 km; oil 1,309 km (2007)

Zambia
  oil 771 km (2007)

Zimbabwe
  refined products 270 km (2007)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2118  Political parties and leaders


Afghanistan
  Afghanistan Peoples' Treaty Party [Sayyed Amir TAHSEEN];
  Afghanistan's Islamic Mission Organization [Abdul Rasoul SAYYAF];
  Afghanistan's Islamic Nation Party [Toran Noor Aqa Ahmad ZAI];
  Afghanistan's National Islamic Party [Rohullah LOUDIN];
  Afghanistan's Welfare Party [Meer Asef ZAEEFI]; Afghan Social
  Democratic Party [Anwarul Haq AHADI]; Afghan Society for the Call to
  the Koran and Sunna [Mawlawee Samiullah NAJEEBEE]; Comprehensive
  Movement of Democracy and Development of Afghanistan Party [Sher
  Mohammad BAZGAR]; Democratic Party of Afghanistan [Tawos ARAB];
  Democratic Party of Afghanistan [Abdul Kabir RANJBAR]; Elites People
  of Afghanistan Party [Abdul Hamid JAWAD]; Freedom and Democracy
  Movement of Afghanistan [Abdul Raqib Jawid KOHISTANEE]; Freedom
  Party of Afghanistan [Ilaj Abdul MALEK]; Freedom Party of
  Afghanistan [Dr. Ghulam Farooq NEJRABEE]; Hizullah-e-Afghanistan
  [Qari Ahmad ALI]; Human Rights Protection and Development Party of
  Afghanistan [Baryalai NASRATI]; Islamic Justice Party of Afghanistan
  [Mohammad Kabir MARZBAN]; Islamic Movement of Afghanistan [Mohammad
  Ali JAWID]; Islamic Movement of Afghanistan Party [Mohammad Mukhtar
  MUFLEH]; Islamic Party of Afghanistan [Mohammad Khalid FAROOQI];
  Islamic Party of the Afghan Land [Mohammad Hassan FEROZKHEL];
  Islamic People's Movement of Afghanistan [Ilhaj Said Hussain
  ANWARY]; Islamic Society of Afghanistan [Ustad RABBANI]; Islamic
  Unity of the Nation of Afghanistan Party [Qurban Ali URFANI];
  Islamic Unity Party of Afghanistan [Mohammad Karim KHALILI]; Islamic
  Unity Party of the People of Afghanistan [Ustad Mohammad MOHAQQEQ];
  Labor and Progress of Afghanistan Party [Zulfiqar OMID]; Muslim
  People of Afghanistan Party [Besmellah JOYAN]; Muslim Unity Movement
  Party of Afghanistan [Wazir Mohammad WAHDAT]; National and Islamic
  Sovereignty Movement Party of Afghanistan [Ahmad Shah AHMADZAI];
  National Congress Party of Afghanistan [Abdul Latif PEDRAM];
  National Country Party [Ghulam MOHAMMAD]; National Development Party
  of Afghanistan [Dr. Aref BAKTASH]; National Freedom Seekers Party
  [Abdul Hadi DABEER]; National Independence Party of Afghanistan [Taj
  Mohammad WARDAK]; National Islamic Fighters Party of Afghanistan
  [Amanat NINGARHAREE]; National Islamic Front of Afghanistan [Pir
  Sayed Ahmad GAILANEE]; National Islamic Moderation Party of
  Afghanistan [Qara Bik Eized YAAR]; National Islamic Movement of
  Afghanistan [Sayed NOORULLAH]; National Islamic Unity Party of
  Afghanistan [Mohammad AKBAREE]; National Movement of Afghanistan
  [Ahmad Wali MASOOUD]; National Party of Afghanistan [Abdul Rashid
  ARYAN]; National Patch of Afghanistan Party [Sayed Kamal SADAT];
  National Peace Islamic Party of Afghanistan [Shah Mohammood Popal
  ZAI]; National Peace & Islamic Party of the Tribes of Afghanistan
  [Abdul Qaher SHARIATEE]; National Peace & Unity Party of Afghanistan
  [Abdul Qader IMAMI]; National Prosperity and Islamic Party of
  Afghanistan [Mohammad Osman SALEKZADA]; National Prosperity Party
  [Mohammad Hassan JAHFAREE]; National Solidarity Movement of
  Afghanistan [Pir Sayed Eshaq GAILANEE]; National Solidarity Party of
  Afghanistan [Sayed Mansoor NADREEI]; National Sovereignty Party
  [Sayed Mustafa KAZEMI]; National Stability Party [Mohammad Same
  KHAROTI]; National Stance Party [Habibullah JANEBDAR]; National
  Tribal Unity Islamic Party of Afghanistan [Mohammad Shah KHOGYANI];
  National United Front [Burhanuddin RABBANI] (a coalition); National
  Unity Movement [Sultan Mohammad GHAZI]; National Unity Movement of
  Afghanistan [Mohammad Nadir AATASH]; National Unity Party of
  Afghanistan [Abdul Rashid JALILI]; New Afghanistan Party [Mohammad
  Yunis QANUNI]; Peace and National Welfare Activists Society [Shamsul
  Haq Noor SHAMS]; Peace Movement [Shahnawaz TANAI]; People's
  Aspirations Party of Afghanistan [Ilhaj Saraj-u-din ZAFAREE];
  People's Freedom Seekers Party of Afghanistan [Feda Mohammad EHSAS];
  People's Liberal Freedom Seekers Party of Afghanistan [Ajmal
  SUHAIL]; People's Message Party of Afghanistan [Noor Aqa WAINEE];
  People's Movement of the National Unity of Afghanistan [Abdul Hakim
  NOORZAI]; People's Party of Afghanistan [Ahmad Shah ASAR]; People's
  Prosperity Party of Afghanistan [Ustad Mohammad ZAREEF]; People's
  Sovereignty Movement of Afghanistan [Hayatullah SUBHANEE]; People's
  Uprising Party of Afghanistan [Sayed Zahir Qayed Omul BELADI];
  People's Welfare Party of Afghanistan [Mia Gul WASIQ]; People's
  Welfare Party of Afghanistan [Mohammad Zubair PAIROZ]; Progressive
  Democratic Party of Afghanistan [Wali ARYA]; Republican Party
  [Sebghatullah SANJAR]; Solidarity Party of Afghanistan [Abdul Khaleq
  NEMAT]; The Afghanistan's Mujahid Nation's Islamic Unity Movement
  [Saeedullah SAEED]; The People of Afghanistan's Democratic Movement
  [Sharif NAZARI]; Tribes Solidarity Party of Afghanistan [Mohammad
  Zarif NASERI]; Understanding and Democracy Party of Afghanistan
  [Ahamad SHAHEEN]; United Afghanistan Party [Mohammad Wasil RAHIMEE];
  United Islamic Party of Afghanistan [Wahidullah SABAWOON]; Young
  Afghanistan's Islamic Organization [Sayed Jawad HUSSINEE]; Youth
  Solidarity Party of Afghanistan [Mohammad Jamil KARZAI]; note -
  includes only political parties approved by the Ministry of Justice

Albania
  Agrarian Environmentalist Party or PAA [Lufter XHUVELI];
  Christian Democratic Party or PDK [Nard NDOKA]; Communist Party of
  Albania or PKSH [Hysni MILLOSHI]; Democratic Alliance Party or AD
  [Neritan CEKA]; Democratic Party or PD [Sali BERISHA]; Legality
  Movement Party or PLL [Ekrem SPAHIA]; Liberal Union Party or BLD
  [Arjan STAROVA]; Movement for National Development or LZhK [Dashamir
  SHEHI]; National Front Party (Balli Kombetar) or PBK [Artur ROSHI];
  New Democratic Party or PDR [Genc POLLO]; Party of National Unity or
  PUK [Idajet BEQIRI]; Republican Party or PR [Fatmir MEDIU]; Social
  Democracy Party of Albania or PDSSh [Paskal MILO]; Social Democratic
  Party or PSD [Skender GJINUSHI]; Socialist Movement for Integration
  or LSI [Ilir META]; Socialist Party or PS [Edi RAMA]; Union for
  Human Rights Party or PBDNj [Vangjel DULE]

Algeria
  Ahd 54 [Ali Fauzi REBAINE]; Algerian National Front or FNA
  [Moussa TOUATI]; Islamic Salvation Front or FIS (outlawed April
  1992) [Ali BELHADJ, Dr. Abassi MADANI, Rabeh KEBIR]; National
  Democratic Rally (Rassemblement National Democratique) or RND [Ahmed
  OUYAHIA]; National Entente Movement or MEN [Ali BOUKHAZNA]; National
  Liberation Front or FLN [Abdelaziz BELKHADEM, secretary general];
  National Reform Movement or Islah (formerly MRN) [Mohamed BOULAHIA];
  National Renewal Party or PRA [Mohamed BENSMAIL]; Rally for Culture
  and Democracy or RCD [Said SADI]; Renaissance Movement or EnNahda
  Movement [Fatah RABEI]; Socialist Forces Front or FFS [Hocine Ait
  AHMED]; Social Liberal Party or PSL [Ahmed KHELIL]; Society of Peace
  Movement or MSP [Boudjerra SOLTANI]; Workers Party or PT [Louisa
  HANOUNE]
  note: a law banning political parties based on religion was enacted
  in March 1997

American Samoa
  Democratic Party [Oreta M. TOGAFAU]; Republican Party
  [Tautai A. F. FAALEVAO]

Andorra
  Andorran Democratic Center Party (formerly Democratic Party
  or PD) and Century 21 or CDA and S21 [Enric TARRADO]; Liberal Party
  of Andorra or PLA [Albert PINTAT SANTOLARIA] (formerly Liberal Union
  or UL); Social Democratic Party or PS [Jaume BARTUMEU CASSANY]
  (formerly part of National Democratic Group or AND)

Angola
  Liberal Democratic Party or PLD [Analia de Victoria PEREIRA];
  National Front for the Liberation of Angola or FNLA [disputed
  between Ngola KABANGU and Lucas NGONDA]; National Union for the
  Total Independence of Angola or UNITA (largest opposition party)
  [Isaias SAMAKUVA]; Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola or
  MPLA (ruling party in power since 1975) [Jose Eduardo DOS SANTOS];
  Social Renewal Party or PRS [Eduardo KUANGANA]
  note: about a dozen minor parties participated in the 1992 elections
  but only won a few seats; they and more than 100 other smaller
  parties have little influence in the National Assembly

Anguilla
  Anguilla United Front or AUF [Osbourne FLEMING, Victor
  BANKS] (a coalition of the Anguilla Democratic Party or ADP and the
  Anguilla National Alliance or ANA); Anguilla United Movement or AUM
  [Hubert HUGHES]; Anguilla Progressive Party or APP [Roy ROGERS];
  Anguilla Strategic Alternative or ANSA [Edison BAIRD]

Antigua and Barbuda
  Antigua Labor Party or ALP [Lester Bryant BIRD];
  Barbudans for a Better Barbuda [Ordrick SAMUEL]; Barbuda People's
  Movement or BPM [Thomas H. FRANK]; Barbuda People's Movement for
  Change [Arthur NIBBS]; United Progressive Party or UPP [Baldwin
  SPENCER] (a coalition of three parties - Antigua Caribbean
  Liberation Movement or ACLM, Progressive Labor Movement or PLM,
  United National Democratic Party or UNDP)

Argentina
  Coalicion Civica (a broad coalition loosely affiliated
  with Elisa CARRIO); Front for Victory or FV (a broad coalition,
  including elements of the UCR and numerous provincial parties)
  [Cristina FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER]; Interbloque Federal or IF (a broad
  coalition of approximately 12 parties including PRO); Justicialist
  Front or FJ; Justicialist Party or PJ (Peronist umbrella political
  organization); Radical Civic Union or UCR [Gerardo MORALES];
  Republican Proposal or PRO (including Federal Recreate Movement or
  RECREAR [Ricardo LOPEZ MURPHY] and Commitment for Change or CPC
  [Mauricio MACRI]); Socialist Party or PS [Ruben GIUSTINIANI]; Union
  For All [Patricia BULLRICH]; several provincial parties

Armenia
  Armenian National Movement or ANM [Ararat ZURABYAN];
  Armenian People's Party [Tigran KARAPETYAN]; Armenian Ramkavar
  Azadagan Party Alliance or HRAK (includes former Dashink Party,
  National Revival Party, and Ramkavar Liberal Party); Armenian
  Revolutionary Federation ("Dashnak" Party) or ARF [Hrant MARKARYAN];
  Heritage Party [Raffi HOVHANNISYAN]; National Democratic Party
  [Shavarsh KOCHARIAN]; National Democratic Union or NDU [Vazgen
  MANUKIAN]; National Unity Party [Artashes GEGHAMYAN]; People's Party
  of Armenia [Stepan DEMIRCHYAN]; Prosperous Armenia [Gagik
  TSAROUKYAN]; Republic Party [Aram SARKISYAN]; Republican Party of
  Armenia or HHK [Serzh SARGSIAN]; Rule of Law Party (Orinats Yerkir)
  [Artur BAGHDASARIAN]; Union of Constitutional Rights [Hrant
  KHACHATURYAN]; United Labor Party [Gurgen ARSENYAN]

Aruba
  Aliansa/Aruban Social Movement or MSA [Robert WEVER]; Aruban
  Liberal Organization or OLA [Glenbert CROES]; Aruban Patriotic
  Movement or MPA [Monica ARENDS-KOCK]; Aruban Patriotic Party or PPA
  [Benny NISBET]; Aruban People's Party or AVP [Mike EMAN]; People's
  Electoral Movement Party or MEP [Nelson O. ODUBER]; Real Democracy
  or PDR [Andin BIKKER]; RED [Rudy LAMPE]; Workers Political Platform
  or PTT [Gregorio WOLFF]

Australia
  Australian Democrats [Lyn ALLISON]; Australian Greens [Bob
  BROWN]; Australian Labor Party [Kevin RUDD]; Country Liberal Party
  [Jodeen CARNEY]; Family First Party [Steve FIELDING]; Liberal Party
  [Malcolm TURNBULL]; The Nationals [Warren TRUSS]

Austria
  Alliance for the Future of Austria or BZOe [Stefan PETZNER];
  Austrian People's Party or OeVP [Wilhelm MOLTERER]; Freedom Party of
  Austria or FPOe [Heinz Christian STRACHE]; Social Democratic Party
  of Austria or SPOe [Werner FAYMANN]; The Greens [Alexander VAN DER
  BELLEN]

Azerbaijan
  Azadliq (Freedom) coalition (Popular Front Party, Liberal
  Party, Citizens' Development Party); Azerbaijan Democratic Party or
  ADP [Sardar JALALOGLU]; Azerbaijan Democratic Reforms Party (ADRP)
  Youth Movement [Ramin HAJILI]; Azerbaijan Popular Front or APF, now
  split in two [Ali KARIMLI, leader of "Reform" APF party; Mirmahmud
  MIRALI-OGLU, leader of "Classic" APF party]; Azerbaijan Public Forum
  [Eldar NAMAZOV]; Citizens' Development Party [Ali ALIYEV]; Civil
  Solidarity Party or CSP [Sabir RUSTAMKHANLY]; Dalga Youth Movement
  [Vafa JAFAROVA]; Green Party [Mais GULALIYEV and Tarana MAMMADOVA];
  Hope (Umid) Party [Iqbal AGAZADE]; Ireli Youth Movement [Jeyhun
  OSMANLI, Roya TALIBOVA, Farhad MAMMADOV, Elnara GARIBOVA, Elnur
  MAMMADOV, Ziya ALIYEV]; Justice Party [Ilyas ISMAILOV]; Liberal
  Party of Azerbaijan [Lala Shovkat HACIYEVA]; Magam Youth Movement
  [Emin HUSEYNOV]; Motherland Party [Fazail AGAMALI]; Musavat
  (Equality) [Isa GAMBAR, chairman]; Musavat Party Youth Movement
  [Elnur MAMMADLI]; National Democratic Party or Grey Wolves
  (Nationalist, Pan-Turkic) [Iskender HAMIDOV]; Open Society Party
  [Rasul GULIYEV, in exile in the US]; Party for National Independence
  of Azerbaijan or PNIA [Ayaz RUSTAMOV]; Popular Front Party Youth
  Movement [Seymur KHAZIYEV]; Social Democratic Party of Azerbaijan or
  SDP [Araz ALIZADE and Ayaz MUTALIBOV (in exile)]; Turkish
  Nationalist Party [Vugar BAYTURAN]; United Azerbaijan Party [Karrar
  ABILOV]; United Azerbaijan National Unity Party [Hajibaba AZIMOV];
  United Party [Tahir KARIMLI]; Yeni (New) Azerbaijan Party [President
  Ilham ALIYEV]; Yeni Azerbaijan Party Youth Movement [Ramil HASANOV];
  Yox (No) Youth Movement [Ali ISMAYILOV]
  note: opposition parties regularly factionalize and form new parties;

Bahamas, The
  Free National Movement or FNM [Hubert INGRAHAM];
  Progressive Liberal Party or PLP [Perry CHRISTIE]

Bahrain
  political parties prohibited but political societies were
  legalized per a July 2005 law

Bangladesh
  Awami League or AL [Sheikh HASINA]; Bangladesh Communist
  Party or BCP [Manjurul A. KHAN]; Bangladesh Nationalist Party or BNP
  [Khaleda ZIA]; Islami Oikya Jote or IOJ [Mufti Fazlul Haq AMINI];
  Jamaat-e-Islami Bangladesh or JIB [Matiur Rahman NIZAMI]; Jatiya
  Party or JP (Ershad faction) [Hussain Mohammad ERSHAD]; Jatiya Party
  (Manzur faction) [Naziur Rahman MANZUR]; Liberal Democratic Party or
  LDP [Badrudozza CHOWDHURY and Oli AHMED]

Barbados
  Barbados Labor Party or BLP [Mia MOTTLEY]; Democratic Labor
  Party or DLP [David THOMPSON]; People's Empowerment Party or PEP
  [David COMISSIONG]

Belarus
  pro-government parties: Agrarian Party or AP [Mikhail
  SHIMANSKY]; Belarusian Communist Party or KPB; Belarusian Patriotic
  Movement (Belarusian Patriotic Party) or BPR [Nikolay ULAKHOVICH,
  chairman]; Liberal Democratic Party of Belarus [Sergey GAYDUKEVICH];
  Party of Labor and Justice [Viktor SOKOLOV]; Social-Sports Party
  [Vladimir ALEXANDROVICH]
  opposition parties: Belarusian Christian Democracy Party
  (unregistered) [Pavel SEVERINETS]; Belarusian Party of Communists or
  PKB [Sergey KALYAKIN]; Belarusian Party of Labor (unregistered)
  [Aleksandr BUKHVOSTOV, Leonid LEMESHONAK]; Belarusian Popular Front
  or BPF [Vintsyuk VYACHORKA]; Belarusian Social-Democratic Gramada
  [Stanislav SHUSHKEVICH]; Belarusian Social Democratic Party Hramada
  (People's Assembly) or BSDPH [Aleksandr KOZULIN; Anatoliy LEVKOVICH,
  acting]; Green Party [Oleg GROMYKO]; Party of Freedom and Progress
  (unregistered) [Vladimir NOVOSYAD]; United Civic Party or UCP
  [Anatoliy LEBEDKO]; Women's Party "Nadezhda" [Valentina MATUSEVICH,
  chairperson]
  other opposition includes: Christian Conservative BPF [Zyanon
  PAZNIAK]; Ecological Party of Greens [Mikhail KARTASH]; Party of
  Popular Accord [Sergey YERMAKK]; Republican Party [Vladimir BELAZOR]

Belgium
  Flemish parties: Christian Democratic and Flemish or CDV
  [Marianne THYSSEN]; Dedecker List [Jean-Marie DEDECKER]; Flemish
  Liberals and Democrats or Open VLD [Bart SOMERS]; Groen! [Mieke
  VOGELS] (formerly AGALEV, Flemish Greens); New Flemish Alliance or
  N-VA [Bart DE WEVER]; Social Progressive Alternative or SP.A
  [Caroline GENNEZ]; VlaamsProgressieven (Flemish Progressives) or VP
  [Bettina GEYSEN] - formerly Spirit; Vlaams Belang (Flemish Interest)
  or VB [Bruno VALKENIERS]
  Francophone parties: Ecolo (Francophone Greens) [Jean-Michel JAVAUX,
  Isabelle DURANT, Claude BROUIR]; Humanist and Democratic Center or
  CDH [Joelle MILQUET]; National Front or FN [Daniel HUYGENS]; Reform
  Movement or MR [Didier REYNDERS]; Socialist Party or PS [Elio DI
  RUPO]; other minor parties

Belize
  National Alliance for Belizean Rights or NABR; National
  Reform Party or NRP [Cornelius DUECK]; People's National Party or
  PNP [Wil MAHEIA]; People's United Party or PUP [Said MUSA]; United
  Democratic Party or UDP [Dean BARROW]; Vision Inspired by the People
  or VIP [Paul MORGAN]; We the People Reform Movement or WTP [Hipolito
  BAUTISTA]

Benin
  Alliance for Dynamic Democracy or ADD; Alliance of Progress
  Forces or AFP; African Movement for Democracy and Progress or MADEP
  [Sefou FAGBOHOUN]; Benin Renaissance or RB [Rosine SOGLO];
  Democratic Renewal Party or PRD [Adrien HOUNGBEDJI]; Force Cowrie
  for an Emerging Benin or FCBE; Impulse for Progress and Democracy or
  IPD [Theophile NATA]; Key Force or FC [Lazare SÈHOUÉTO]; Movement
  for the People's Alternative or MAP [Olivier CAPO-CHICHI]; Rally for
  Democracy and Progress or RDP [Dominique HOUNGNINOU]; Social
  Democrat Party or PSD [Bruno AMOUSSOU]; Union for the Relief or UPR
  [Issa SALIFOU]; Union for Democracy and National Solidarity or UDS
  [Sacca LAFIA]
  note: approximately 20 additional minor parties

Bermuda
  Progressive Labor Party or PLP [Ewart BROWN]; United Bermuda
  Party or UBP [Kim SWAN]

Bhutan
  Bhutan Peace and Prosperity Party (Druk Phuensum Tshogpa) or
  DPT [Jigme THINLEY]; People's Democratic Party or PDP [Sangay NGEDUP]

Bolivia
  Free Bolivia Movement or MBL [Franz BARRIOS]; Movement
  Toward Socialism or MAS [Juan Evo MORALES Ayma]; Movement Without
  Fear or MSM [Juan DEL GRANADO]; National Revolutionary Movement or
  MNR [Mirta QUEVEDO]; National Unity [Samuel DORIA MEDINA Arana];
  Poder Democratico Nacional or PODEMOS [Jorge Fernando QUIROGA
  Ramirez]; Social Alliance [Rene JOAQUINO]

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  Alliance of Independent Social Democrats or
  SNSD [Milorad DODIK]; Bosnian Party or BOSS [Mirnes AJANOVIC]; Civic
  Democratic Party or GDS [Ibrahim SPAHIC]; Croat Christian Democratic
  Union of Bosnia and Herzegovina or HKDU [Marin TOPIC]; Croat Party
  of Rights or HSP [Zvonko JURISIC]; Croat Peasants Party or HSS
  [Marko TADIC]; Croatian Democratic Union of Bosnia and Herzegovina
  or HDZ-BH [Dragan COVIC]; Croatian Democratic Union 1990 or HDZ1990
  [Bozo LJUBIC]; Croatian Democratic Union 100 or HDZ100; Croatian
  Peoples Union [Milenko BRKIC]; Democratic National Union or DNZ
  [Rifet DOLIC]; Democratic Peoples Alliance or DNS [Marko PAVIC];
  Liberal Democratic Party or LDS [Rasim KADIC]; New Croat Initiative
  or NHI [Kresimir ZUBAK]; Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina or SBH
  [Haris SILAJDZIC]; Party for Democratic Action or SDA [Sulejman
  TIHIC]; Party of Democratic Progress or PDP [Mladen IVANIC]; Serb
  Democratic Party or SDS [Mladen BOSIC]; Serb Radical Party of the
  Republika Srpska or SRS-RS [Milanko MIHAJLICA]; Serb Radical
  Party-Dr. Vojislav Seselj or SRS-VS [Radislav KANJERIC]; Social
  Democratic Party of BIH or SDP [Zlatko LAGUMDZIJA]; Social
  Democratic Union or SDU [Sejfudin TOKIC]; Socialist Party of
  Republika Srpska or SPRS [Petar DJOKIC]

Botswana
  Botswana Alliance Movement or BAM [Ephraim Lepetu
  SETSHWAELO]; Botswana Congress Party or BCP [Otlaadisa KOOSALETSE];
  Botswana Democratic Party or BDP [Festus G. MOGAE]; Botswana
  National Front or BNF [Otswoletse MOUPO]; Botswana Peoples Party or
  BPP; MELS Movement of Botswana or MELS; New Democratic Front or NDF
  note: a number of minor parties joined forces in 1999 to form the
  BAM but did not capture any parliamentary seats - includes the
  United Action Party [Ephraim Lepetu SETSHWAELO]; the Independence
  Freedom Party or IFP [Motsamai MPHO]; the Botswana Progressive Union
  [D. K. KWELE]

Brazil
  Brazilian Democratic Movement Party or PMDB [Federal Deputy
  Michel TEMER]; Brazilian Labor Party or PTB [Roberto JEFFERSON];
  Brazilian Renewal Labor Party or PRTB [Jose Levy FIDELIX da Cruz];
  Brazilian Republican Party or PRB [Vitor Paulo Araujo DOS SANTOS];
  Brazilian Social Democracy Party or PSDB [Senator Sergio GUERRA];
  Brazilian Socialist Party or PSB [Governor Eduardo Henrique Accioly
  CAMPOS]; Christian Labor Party or PTC [Daniel TOURINHO]; Communist
  Party of Brazil or PCdoB [Jose Renato RABELO]; Democratic Labor
  Party or PDT [Carlos Roberto LUPI]; the Democrats or DEM (formerly
  Liberal Front Party or PFL) [Federal Deputy Rodrigo MAIA]; Freedom
  and Socialism Party or PSOL [Heloisa HELENA]; Green Party or PV
  [Jose Luiz de Franca PENNA]; Humanist Party of Solidarity or PHS
  [Paulo Roberto MATOS]; Labor Party of Brazil or PTdoB [Luis Henrique
  de Oliveira RESENDE]; Liberal Front Party or PFL (now known as the
  Democrats or DEM); National Mobilization Party or PMN [Oscar Noronha
  FILHO]; Party of the Republic or PR [Sergio TAMER]; Popular
  Socialist Party or PPS [Federal Deputy Fernando CORUJA]; Progressive
  Party or PP [Francisco DORNELLES]; Social Christian Party or PSC
  [Vitor Jorge Abdala NOSSEIS]; Workers' Party or PT [Ricardo Jose
  Ribeiro BERZOINI]

British Virgin Islands
  Concerned Citizens Movement or CCM [Ethlyn
  SMITH]; National Democratic Party or NDP [Orlando SMITH]; United
  Party or UP [Gregory MADURO]; Virgin Islands Party or VIP [Ralph T.
  O'NEAL]

Brunei
  National Development Party or NDP [YASSIN Affendi]
  note: Brunei National Solidarity Party or PPKB [Abdul LATIF bin
  Chuchu] and People's Awareness Party or PAKAR [Awang Haji MAIDIN bin
  Haji Ahmad] were deregistered; parties are small and have limited
  activity

Bulgaria
  ATAKA (Attack Coalition) (coalition of parties headed by
  the Attack National Union); Attack National Union [Volen SIDEROV];
  Bulgarian Agrarian National Union-People's Union or BANU [Anastasia
  MOZER]; Bulgarian New Democracy [Borislav RALCHEV]; Bulgarian
  People's Union or BPU (coalition of UFD, IMRO, and BANU); Bulgarian
  Socialist Party or BSP [Sergei STANISHEV]; Citizens for the European
  Development of Bulgaria or GERB [Tsvetan TSVETANOV]; Coalition for
  Bulgaria or CfB (coalition of parties dominated by BSP) [Sergei
  STANISHEV]; Democrats for a Strong Bulgaria or DSB [Ivan KOSTOV];
  Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization or IMRO [Krasimir
  KARAKACHANOV]; Movement for Rights and Freedoms or MRF [Ahmed
  DOGAN]; National Movement for Stability and Progress or NMSS [Simeon
  SAXE-COBURG-GOTHA] (formerly National Movement Simeon II or NMS2);
  New Time [Emil KOSHLUKOV]; Union of Democratic Forces or UDF [Petar
  STOYANOV]; Union of Free Democrats or UFD [Stefan SOFIYANSKI];
  United Democratic Forces or UtDF (a coalition of center-right
  parties dominated by UDF)

Burkina Faso
  African Democratic Rally-Alliance for Democracy and
  Federation or ADF-RDA [Gilbert OUEDRAOGO]; Citizen's Popular Rally
  or RPC [Antoine QUARE]; Coalition of Democratic Forces of Burkina or
  CFD-B [Amadou Diemdioda DICKO]; Congress for Democracy and Progress
  or CDP [Roch Marc-Christian KABORE]; Movement for Tolerance and
  Progress or MTP [Nayabtigungou Congo KABORE]; Party for African
  Independence or PAI [Philippe OUEDRAOGO]; Party for Democracy and
  Progress/Socialist Party or PDP/PS [Ali LANKOANDE]; Party for
  Democracy and Socialism or PDS [Felix SOUBEIGA]; Party for National
  Rebirth or PAREN [Oumar DJIGUIMDE]; Rally for the Development of
  Burkina or RDB [Antoine KARGOUGOU]; Rally of Ecologists of Burkina
  Faso or RDEB [Ram OUEDRAGO]; Republican Party for Integration and
  Solidarity or PARIS [Cyril GOUNGOUNGA]; Union for Democracy and
  Social Progress or UDPS [Fidele HIEN]; Union for Rebirth - Sankarist
  Movement or UNIR-MS [Benewende STANISLAS]; Union for the Republic or
  UPR [Toussaint Abel COULIBALY]; Union of Sankarist Parties or UPS
  [Ernest Nongma OUEDRAOGO]

Burma
  National League for Democracy or NLD [AUNG SHWE, AUNG SAN SUU
  KYI]; National Unity Party or NUP (pro-regime) [TUN YE]; Shan
  Nationalities League for Democracy or SNLD [HKUN HTUN OO]; and other
  smaller parties

Burundi
  governing parties: Burundi Democratic Front or FRODEBU
  [Leonce NGENDAKUMANA]; National Council for the Defense of Democracy
  - Front for the Defense of Democracy or CNDD-FDD [Jeremie
  NGENDAKUMANA]; Unity for National Progress or UPRONA [Aloys RUBUKA]
  note: a multiparty system was introduced after 1998, included are:
  National Council for the Defense of Democracy or CNDD [Leonard
  NYANGOMA]; National Resistance Movement for the Rehabilitation of
  the Citizen or MRC-Rurenzangemero [Epitace BANYAGANAKANDI]; Party
  for National Redress or PARENA [Jean-Baptiste BAGAZA]

Cambodia
  Cambodian People's Party or CPP [CHEA SIM]; National United
  Front for an Independent, Neutral, Peaceful, and Cooperative
  Cambodia or FUNCINPEC [KEV PUT REAKSMEI]; Norodom Ranariddh Party or
  NRP [Norodom RANARIDDH]; Sam Rangsi Party or SRP [SAM RANGSI]

Cameroon
  Cameroonian Democratic Union or UDC [Adamou Ndam NJOYA];
  Cameroon People's Democratic Movement or RDPC [Paul BIYA]; Movement
  for the Defense of the Republic or MDR [Dakole DAISSALA]; Movement
  for the Liberation and Development of Cameroon or MLDC [Marcel
  YONDO]; National Union for Democracy and Progress or UNDP [Maigari
  BELLO BOUBA]; Progressive Movement or MP; Social Democratic Front or
  SDF [John FRU NDI]; Union of Peoples of Cameroon or UPC [Augustin
  Frederic KODOCK]

Canada
  Bloc Quebecois [Gilles DUCEPPE]; Conservative Party of Canada
  [Stephen HARPER] (a merger of the Canadian Alliance and the
  Progressive Conservative Party); Green Party [Elizabeth MAY];
  Liberal Party [Stephane DION]; New Democratic Party [Jack LAYTON]

Cape Verde
  African Party for Independence of Cape Verde or PAICV
  [Jose Maria Pereira NEVES, chairman]; Democratic Alliance for Change
  or ADM [Dr. Eurico MONTEIRO] (a coalition of PCD, PTS, and UCID);
  Democratic Christian Party or PDC [Manuel RODRIGUES]; Democratic
  Renovation Party or PRD [Victor FIDALGO]; Democratic and Independent
  Cape Verdean Union or UCID [Antonio MONTEIRO]; Movement for
  Democracy or MPD [Agostinho LOPES]; Party for Democratic Convergence
  or PCD [Dr. Eurico MONTEIRO]; Party of Work and Solidarity or PTS
  [Isaias RODRIGUES]; Social Democratic Party or PSD [Joao ALEM]

Cayman Islands
  United Democratic Party or UDP [McKeeva BUSH];
  People's Progressive Movement or PPM [Kurt TIBBETTS]; note - no
  national teams (loose groupings of political organizations) were
  formed for the 2000 elections

Central African Republic
  Alliance for Democracy and Progress or ADP
  [Jacques MBOLIEDAS]; Central African Democratic Rally or RDC [Andre
  KOLINGBA]; Civic Forum or FC [Gen. Timothee MALENDOMA]; Democratic
  Forum for Modernity or FODEM [Charles MASSI]; Liberal Democratic
  Party or PLD [Nestor KOMBO-NAGUEMON]; Londo Association or LONDO;
  Movement for Democracy and Development or MDD [David DACKO];
  Movement for the Liberation of the Central African People or MLPC
  [Ange-Felix PATASSE] (the party of deposed president); National
  Convergence or KNK; Patriotic Front for Progress or FPP [Abel
  GOUMBA]; People's Union for the Republic or UPR [Pierre Sammy
  MAKFOY]; National Unity Party or PUN [Jean-Paul NGOUPANDE]; Social
  Democratic Party or PSD [Enoch LAKOUE]

Chad
  Federation Action for the Republic or FAR [Ngarledjy YORONGAR];
  National Rally for Development and Progress or RNDP [Delwa Kassire
  KOUMAKOYE]; National Union for Democracy and Renewal or UNDR [Saleh
  KEBZABO]; Party for Liberty and Development or PLD [Ibni Oumar
  Mahamat SALEH]; Patriotic Salvation Movement or MPS [Mahamat Saleh
  AHMAT, chairman]; Rally for Democracy and Progress or RDP [Lol
  Mahamat CHOUA]; Union for Renewal and Democracy or URD [Gen. Wadal
  Abdelkader KAMOUGUE]

Chile
  Alliance for Chile (Alianza) or APC (including National
  Renewal or RN [Carlos LARRAIN Pena] and Independent Democratic Union
  or UDI [Hernan LARRAIN Fernandez]); Coalition of Parties for
  Democracy (Concertacion) or CPD (including Christian Democratic
  Party or PDC [Soledad ALVEAR], Socialist Party or PS [Camilo
  ESCALONA Medina], Party for Democracy or PPD [Sergio BITAR Chacra],
  Radical Social Democratic Party or PRSD [Jose Antonio GOMEZ
  Urrutia]); Communist Party or PC [Guillermo TEILLIER]; Humanist
  Party [Marilen CABRERA Olmos]

China
  Chinese Communist Party or CCP [HU Jintao]; eight registered
  small parties controlled by CCP

Christmas Island
  none

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  none

Colombia
  Colombian Conservative Party or PC [Efrain Jose CEPEDA
  Sarabia]; Alternative Democratic Pole or PDA [Carlos GAVIRIA Diaz];
  Liberal Party or PL [Cesar GAVIRIA Trujillo]; Radical Change or CR
  [German VARGAS Lleras]; Social National Unity Party or U Party
  [Carlos GARCIA Orjuela]
  note: Colombia has 15 formally recognized political parties, and
  numerous unofficial parties that did not meet the vote threshold in
  the March 2006 legislative elections required for recognition

Comoros
  Convention for the Renewal of the Comoros or CRC [AZALI
  Assowmani]; Camp of the Autonomous Islands or CdIA (a coalition of
  parties organized by the islands' presidents in opposition to the
  Union President); Front National pour la Justice or FNJ [Ahmed
  RACHID] (Islamic party in opposition); Mouvement pour la Democratie
  et le Progress or MDP-NGDC [Abbas DJOUSSOUF]; Parti Comorien pour la
  Democratie et le Progress or PCDP [Ali MROUDJAE]; Rassemblement
  National pour le Development or RND [Omar TAMOU, Abdoulhamid
  AFFRAITANE]

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  Christian Democrat Party or PDC
  [Jose ENDUNDO]; Congolese Rally for Democracy or RCD [Azarias
  RUBERWA]; Convention of Christian Democrats or CDC; Forces of
  Renewal or FR [Mbusa NYAMWISI]; Movement for the Liberation of the
  Congo or MLC [Jean-Pierre BEMBA]; People's Party for Reconstruction
  and Democracy or PPRD [Joseph KABILA]; Social Movement for Renewal
  or MSR [Pierre LUMBI]; Unified Lumumbist Party or PALU [Antoine
  GIZENGA]; Union for Democracy and Social Progress or UDPS [Etienne
  TSHISEKEDI]; Union of Mobutuist Democrats or UDEMO [MOBUTU Nzanga]

Congo, Republic of the
  Action Movement for Renewal or MAR; Congolese
  Movement for Democracy and Integral Development or MCDDI [Michel
  MAMPOUYA]; Congolese Labour Party or PCT; Movement for Solidarity
  and Development or MSD; Pan-African Union for Social Development or
  UPADS [Martin MBERI]; Rally for Democracy and Social Progress or
  RDPS [Jean-Pierre Thystere TCHICAYA, president]; Rally for Democracy
  and the Republic or RDR [Raymond Damasge NGOLLO]; Union for
  Democracy and Republic or UDR; United Democratic Forces or FDU
  [Sebastian EBAO]; many less important parties

Cook Islands
  Cook Islands Party or CIP [Henry PUNA]; Democratic
  Party or Demo [Dr. Terepai MAOATE]

Costa Rica
  Authentic Member from Heredia [Jose SALAS]; Citizen
  Action Party or PAC [Epsy CAMPBELL Barr]; Costa Rican Renovation
  Party or PRC [Gerardo Justo OROZCO Alvarez]; Democratic Force Party
  or PFD [Marco NUNEZ Gonzalez]; General Union Party or PUGEN [Carlos
  Alberto FERNANDEZ Vega]; Homeland First or PP [Juan Jose VARGAS
  Fallas]; Independent Worker Party or PIO [Jose Alberto CUBERO
  Carmona]; Libertarian Movement Party or PML [Otto GUEVARA Guth];
  National Christian Alliance Party or ANC [Juan Carlos CHAVEZ Mora];
  National Integration Party or PIN [Walter MUNOZ Cespedes]; National
  Liberation Party or PLN [Francisco Antonio PACHECO Fernandez];
  National Patriotic Party or PPN [Daniel Enrique REYNOLDS Vargas];
  National Restoration Party or PRN [Fabio Enrique DELGADO Hernandez];
  National Union Party or PUN [Arturo ACOSTA Mora]; Nationalist
  Democratic Alliance or ADN [Jose Miguel VILLALOBOS Umana]; Patriotic
  Union or UP [Jose Miguel CORRALES Bolanos]; Social Christian Unity
  Party or PUSC [Luis FISHMAN Zonzinski]; Union for Change Party or
  UPC [Antonio ALVAREZ Desanti]; United Leftist Coalition or IU
  [Humberto VARGAS Carbonel]

Cote d'Ivoire
  Citizen's Democratic Union or UDCY [Theodore MEL EG];
  Democratic Party of Cote d'Ivoire or PDCI [Henri Konan BEDIE];
  Ivorian Popular Front or FPI [Pascale Affi N'GUESSAN]; Ivorian
  Worker's Party or PIT [Francis WODIE]; Opposition Movement of the
  Future or MFA [Innocent Augustin ANAKY]; Rally of the Republicans or
  RDR [Alassane OUATTARA]; Union for Democracy and Peace in Cote
  d'Ivoire or UDPCI [Toikeuse MABRI]; over 144 smaller registered
  parties

Croatia
  Croatian Democratic Congress of Slavonia and Baranja or
  HDSSB [Vladimir SISLJAGIC]; Croatian Democratic Union or HDZ [Ivo
  SANADER]; Croatian Party of the Right or HSP [Anto DJAPIC]; Croatian
  Peasant Party or HSS [Josip FRISCIC]; Croatian Pensioner Party or
  HSU [Vladimir JORDAN]; Croatian People's Party or HNS [Vesna PUSIC];
  Croatian Social Liberal Party or HSLS [Djurdja ADLESIC]; Independent
  Democratic Serb Party or SDSS [Vojislav STANIMIROVIC]; Istrian
  Democratic Assembly or IDS [Ivan JAKOVCIC]; Social Democratic Party
  of Croatia or SDP [Zoran MILANOVIC]

Cuba
  Cuban Communist Party or PCC [Fidel CASTRO Ruz, first secretary]

Cyprus
  area under government control: Democratic Party or DIKO
  [Marios KAROYIAN]; Democratic Rally or DISY [Nikos ANASTASIADHIS];
  European Democracy or EURO.DI [Prodromos PRODROMOU] (evolved from
  For Europe which merged with New Horizons); European Party or
  EURO.KO [Demetris SYLLOURIS]; Fighting Democratic Movement or ADIK
  [Dinos MIKHAILIDIS]; Green Party of Cyprus [George PERDIKIS];
  Movement for Social Democrats or EDEK [Yannakis OMIROU]; Political
  Movement of Hunters [Michalis PAFITANIS]; Progressive Party of the
  Working People or AKEL (Communist Party) [Dimitris CHRISTOFIAS];
  United Democrats or EDI [Michalis PAPAPETROU]
  area administered by Turkish Cypriots: Communal Liberation Party or
  TKP [Huseyin ANGOLEMLI]; Cyprus Socialist Party or KSP [Kazim
  ONGEN]; Democratic Party or DP [Serder DENKTASH]; Freedom and Reform
  Party or OP [Turgay AVCI]; National Unity Party or UBP [Tahsin
  ERTUGRULOGLU]; Nationalist Justice Party or MAP [Ata TEPE]; New
  Party or YP [Huseyin TURAN]; Our Party or BP [Okyay SADIKOGLU];
  Patriotic Unity Movement or YBH [Oguz OZEN]; Peace and Democratic
  Movement or BDH [Mustafa AKINCI]; Renewal Progress Party or YAP
  [Ertugrul HASIPOGLU]; Republican Turkish Party or CTP [Ferdi Sabit
  SOYER]; United Cyprus Party or BKP [Isset IZCAN]

Czech Republic
  Association of Independent Candidates-European
  Democrats or SNK-ED [Helmut DOHNALEK]; Christian Democratic
  Union-Czechoslovak People's Party or KDU-CSL [Jiri CUNEK]; Civic
  Democratic Party or ODS [Mirek TOPOLANEK]; Communist Party of
  Bohemia and Moravia or KSCM [Vojtech FILIP]; Czech Social Democratic
  Party or CSSD [Jiri PAROUBEK]; Union of Freedom-Democratic Union or
  US-DEU [Jan CERNY]; Green Party [Martin BURSIK]; Independent
  Democrats (NEZDEM) [Vladimir ZELEZNY]; Party of Open Society (SOS)
  [Pavel NOVACEK]; Path of Change [Jiri LOBKOWITZ]

Denmark
  Christian Democrats [Bjarne Hartung KIRKEGAARD] (was
  Christian People's Party); Conservative Party [Bendt BENDTSEN]
  (sometimes known as Conservative People's Party); Danish People's
  Party [Pia KJAERSGAARD]; Liberal Party [Anders Fogh RASMUSSEN]; New
  Alliance [Naser KHADER]; Red-Green Unity List (Alliance) [collective
  leadership] (bloc includes Left Socialist Party, Communist Party of
  Denmark, Socialist Workers' Party); Social Democratic Party [Helle
  THORNING-SCHMIDT]; Social Liberal Party [Margrethe VESTAGER];
  Socialist People's Party [Villy SOEVNDAL]

Djibouti
  Democratic National Party or PND [ADEN Robleh Awaleh];
  Democratic Renewal Party or PRD [Abdillahi HAMARITEH]; Djibouti
  Development Party or PDD [Mohamed Daoud CHEHEM]; Front pour la
  Restauration de l'Unite Democratique or FRUD [Ali Mohamed DAOUD];
  People's Progress Assembly or RPP [Ismail Omar GUELLEH] (governing
  party); Peoples Social Democratic Party or PPSD [Moumin Bahdon
  FARAH]; Republican Alliance for Democracy or ARD; Union for a
  Presidential Majority or UMP (a coalition of parties including RPP,
  FRUD, PND, and PPSD); Union for Democracy and Justice or UDJ

Dominica
  Dominica Freedom Party or DFP [Charles SAVARIN]; Dominica
  Labor Party or DLP [Roosevelt SKERRIT]; Dominica United Workers
  Party or UWP [Earl WILLIAMS]

Dominican Republic
  Dominican Liberation Party or PLD [Leonel
  FERNANDEZ Reyna]; Dominican Revolutionary Party or PRD [Ramon
  ALBURQUERQUE]; National Progressive Front [Vincent CASTILLO,
  Pelegrin CASTILLO]; Social Christian Reformist Party or PRSC
  [Enrique ANTUN]

Ecuador
  Alianza PAIS Movement [Rafael Vicente CORREA Delgado];
  Christian Democratic Union or UDC [Diego ORDONEZ Guerrero];
  Democratic Left or ID [Andres PAEZ Benalcazar]; Ethical and
  Democratic Network or RED [Leon ROLDOS]; Institutional Renewal and
  National Action Party or PRIAN [Alvaro NOBOA]; Pachakutik
  Plurinational Unity Movement - New Country or MUPP-NP [Jorge
  GUAMAN]; Patriotic Society Party or PSP [Lucio GUTIERREZ Borbua];
  Popular Democratic Movement or MPD [Ciro GUZMAN Aldaz]; Roldosist
  Party or PRE [Abdala BUCARAM Ortiz, director]; Social Christian
  Party or PSC [Pascual DEL CIOPPO]; Socialist Party - Broad Front or
  PS-FA [Gustavo AYALA Cruz]

Egypt
  National Democratic Party or NDP (governing party) [Mohamed
  Hosni MUBARAK]; National Progressive Unionist Grouping or Tagammu
  [Rifaat EL-SAID]; New Wafd Party or NWP [Mahmoud ABAZA]; Tomorrow
  Party [Moussa Mustafa MOUSSA]
  note: formation of political parties must be approved by the
  government; only parties with representation in elected bodies are
  listed

El Salvador
  Christian Democratic Party or PDC [Rodolfo PARKER];
  Democratic Convergence or CD [Ruben ZAMORA] (formerly United
  Democratic Center or CDU); Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front
  or FMLN [Medardo GONZALEZ]; National Conciliation Party or PCN [Ciro
  CRUZ ZEPEDA]; National Republican Alliance or ARENA [Elias Antonio
  SACA Gonzalez]; Popular Social Christian Party or PPSC [Rene
  AGUILUZ]; Revolutionary Democratic Front or FDR [Julio Cesar
  HERNANDEZ Carcamo]

Equatorial Guinea
  Convergence Party for Social Democracy or CPDS
  [Placido MICO Abogo]; Democratic Party for Equatorial Guinea or PDGE
  (ruling party) [Teodoro OBIANG NGUEMA MBASOGO]; Party for Progress
  of Equatorial Guinea or PPGE [Severo MOTO]; Popular Action of
  Equatorial Guinea or APGE [Avelino MOCACHE]; Popular Union or UP

Eritrea
  People's Front for Democracy and Justice or PFDJ [ISAIAS
  Afworki] (the only party recognized by the government); note - a
  National Assembly committee drafted a law on political parties in
  January 2001, but the full National Assembly has yet to debate or
  vote on it

Estonia
  Center Party of Estonia (Keskerakond) [Edgar SAVISAAR];
  Estonian Greens (Rohelised) [Marek STRANDBERG]; Estonian People's
  Union (Rahvaliit) [Villu REILJAN]; Estonian Reform Party
  (Reformierakond) [Andrus ANSIP]; Estonian United Russian People's
  Party or EUVRP [Yevgeniy TOMBERG]; Social Democratic Party (formerly
  People's Party Moodukad or Moderates) [Ivari PADAR]; Union of Pro
  Patria and Res Publica (Isamaa je Res Publica Liit) [Mart LAAR]

Ethiopia
  Afar National Democratic Party or ANDP; Benishangul Gumuz
  People's Democratic Unity Front or BGPDUF [Mulualem BESSE];
  Coalition for Unity and Democratic Party or CUDP [AYELE Chamisso]
  (awarded to AYELE by the National Electoral Board on 11 January
  2008, but AYELE has virtually no support among former CUD MPs, other
  CUD MPs must now be affiliated with their original CUD-precursor
  parties); Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front or EPRDF
  [MELES Zenawi] (an alliance of Amhara National Democratic Movement
  or ANDM, Oromo People's Democratic Organization or OPDO, the South
  Ethiopian People's Democratic Front or SEPDF, and Tigrayan Peoples'
  Liberation Front or TPLF); Gurage Nationalities' Democratic Movement
  or GNDM; Oromo Federalist Democratic Movement or OFDM [BULCHA
  Demeksa]; Omoro People's Congress or OPC [IMERERA Gudina]; Somali
  People's Democratic Party or SPDP; United Ethiopian Democratic
  Forces or UEDF [BEYENE Petros]

European Union
  Confederal Group of the European United Left-Nordic
  Green Left or EUL/NGL [Francis WURTZ]; European People's
  Party-European Democrats or EPP-ED [Joseph DAUL]; Group of the
  Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe or ALDE [Graham R.
  WATSON]; Group of Greens/European Free Alliance or Greens/EFA
  [Monica FRASSONI and Daniel Marc COHN-BENDIT]; Identity, Tradition,
  Sovereignty Group or ITS [Bruno GOLLNISCH]; Independence/Democracy
  Group or IND/DEM [Jens-Peter BONDE and Nigel FARAGE]; Socialist
  Group in the European Parliament or PES [Martin SCHULZ]; Union for
  Europe of the Nations Group or UEN [Brian CROWLEY and Cristiana
  MUSCARDINI]

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  none; all independents

Faroe Islands
  Center Party [Jenis A. RANA]; Independence Party [Kari
  P. HOJGAARD]; People's Party [Jorgen NICLASEN]; Republican Party
  [Hogni HOYDAL]; Social Democratic Party [Joannes EIDESGAARD]; Union
  Party [Kaj Leo JOHANNESEN]

Fiji
  Dodonu Ni Taukei Party or DNT [Fereti S. DEWA]; Fiji Democratic
  Party or FDP [Filipe BOLE] (a merger of the Christian Democrat
  Alliance or VLV [Poesci Waqalevu BUNE], Fijian Association Party or
  FAP, Fijian Political Party or SVT (primarily Fijian) [Sitiveni
  RABUKA], and New Labor Unity Party or NLUP [Ofa SWANN]); Fiji Labor
  Party or FLP [Mahendra CHAUDHRY]; General Voters Party or GVP
  (became part of United General Party); Girmit Heritage Party or GHP;
  Justice and Freedom Party or AIM; Lio 'On Famor Rotuma Party or LFR;
  National Federation Party or NFP (primarily Indian) [Pramond RAE];
  Nationalist Vanua Takolavo Party or NVTLP [Saula TELAWA]; Party of
  National Unity or PANU [Ponipate LESAVUA]; Party of the Truth or
  POTT; United Fiji Party/Sogosogo Duavata ni Lewenivanua or SDL
  [Laisenia QARASE]; United Peoples Party or UPP [Millis Mick BEDDOES]

Finland
  Center Party or Kesk [Matti VANHANEN]; Christian Democrats
  or KD [Paivi RASANEN]; Green Party or VIHR [Tarja CRONBERG]; Left
  Alliance or VAS [Martti KORHONEN] (composed of People's Democratic
  League and Democratic Alternative); National Coalition
  (conservative) Party or Kok [Jyrki KATAINEN]; Social Democratic
  Party or SDP [Eero HEINALUOMA]; Swedish People's Party or SFP
  [Stefan WALLIN]; True Finns [Timo SOINI]

France
  Democratic Movement or MoDem [Francois BAYROU] (previously
  Union for French Democracy or UDF); Democratic and Social European
  Rally or RDSE [Pierre LAFFITTE] (mainly Radical Republican and
  Socialist Parties, and PRG); French Communist Party or PCF
  [Marie-George BUFFET]; Greens [Cecile DUFLOT]; Left Radical Party or
  PRG [Jean-Michel BAYLET] (previously Radical Socialist Party or PRS
  and the Left Radical Movement or MRG); Movement for France or MPF
  [Philippe DE VILLIERS]; National Front or FN [Jean-Marie LE PEN];
  New Center or NC [Herve MORIN]; Rally for France or RPF [Charles
  PASQUA]; Republican and Citizen Movement or MRC [Jean Pierre
  CHEVENEMENT and Georges SARRE]; Socialist Party or PS [Francois
  HOLLANDE]; Union for a Popular Movement or UMP [Patrick DEVEDJIAN,
  Jean-Claude GAUDIN, Jean-Pierre RAFFARIN, Pierre MEHAIGNERIE];
  Radical Party [Jean-Louis BORLOO]

French Polynesia
  Alliance for a New Democracy or ADN [Nicole BOUTEAU
  and Philip SCHYLE](includes the parties The New Star and This
  Country is Yours); Independent Front for the Liberation of Polynesia
  (Tavini Huiraatira) [Oscar TEMARU]; New Fatherland Party (Ai'a Api)
  [Emile VERNAUDON]; Our Home alliance; People's Rally for the
  Republic of Polynesia or RPR (Tahoeraa Huiraatira) [Gaston FLOSSE];
  Union for Democracy alliance or UPD [Oscar TEMARU]

Gabon
  Circle of Liberal Reformers or CLR [General Jean Boniface
  ASSELE]; Congress for Democracy and Justice or CDJ [Jules Aristide
  Bourdes OGOULIGUENDE]; Democratic and Republican Alliance or ADERE
  [Divungui-di-Ndinge DIDJOB]; Gabonese Democratic Party or PDG
  (former sole party) [Simplice Nguedet MANZELA]; Gabonese Party for
  Progress or PGP [Benoit Mouity NZAMBA]; Gabonese Union for Democracy
  and Development or UGDD [Zacherie MYBOTO]; National Rally of
  Woodcutters or RNB; National Rally of Woodcutters-Rally for Gabon or
  RNB-RPG (Bucherons) [Fr. Paul M'BA-ABESSOLE]; Party of Development
  and Social Solidarity or PDS [Seraphin Ndoat REMBOGO]; People's
  Unity Party or PUP [Louis Gaston MAYILA]; Social Democratic Party or
  PSD [Pierre Claver MAGANGA-MOUSSAVOU]; Union for Democracy and
  Social Integration or UDIS; Union of Gabonese Patriots or UPG
  [Pierre MAMBOUNDOU]

Gambia, The
  Alliance for Patriotic Reorientation and Construction or
  APRC (the ruling party) [Yahya A. J. J. JAMMEH]; Gambia People's
  Democratic Party or GPDP [Henry GOMEZ]; National Alliance for
  Democracy and Development or NADD [Halifa SALLAH]; National
  Convention Party or NCP [Sheriff DIBBA]; National Reconciliation
  Party or NRP [Hamat N. K. BAH]; People's Democratic Organization for
  Independence and Socialism or PDOIS [Sidia JATTA]; United Democratic
  Party or UDP [Ousainou DARBOE]

Georgia
  Burjanadze-Democrats [Nino BURJANADZE]; Georgian People's
  Front [Nodar NATADZE]; Georgian United Communist Party or UCPG
  [Panteleimon GIORGADZE]; Georgia's Way Party [Salome ZOURABICHVILI];
  Greens [Giorgi GACHECHILADZE]; Industry Will Save Georgia
  (Industrialists) or IWSG [Georgi TOPADZE]; Labor Party [Shalva
  NATELASHVILI]; National Council-New Rights (a bloc uniting a
  nine-party alliance with New Rights); National Democratic Party or
  NDP [Bachuki KARDAVA]; National Movement-Democratic Front [Mikheil
  SAAKASHVILI] (bloc composed of National Movement and
  Burjanadze-Democrats); National Movement [Mikheil SAAKASHVILI]; New
  Rights [David GAMKRELIDZE]; Republican Party [David USUPASHVILI];
  Socialist Party or SPG [Irakli MINDELI]; Traditionalists [Akaki
  ASATIANI]; Union of National Forces-Conservatives [Koba DAVITASHVILI
  and Zviad DZIDZIGURI]

Germany
  Alliance '90/Greens [Claudia ROTH and Cem OEZDEMIR];
  Christian Democratic Union or CDU [Angela MERKEL]; Christian Social
  Union or CSU [Horst SEEHOFER]; Free Democratic Party or FDP [Guido
  WESTERWELLE]; Left Party or Die Linke [Lothar BISKY and Oskar
  LAFONTAINE]; Social Democratic Party or SPD [Franz MUENTEFERING]

Ghana
  Convention People's Party or CPP [Ladi NYLANDER]; Democratic
  Freedom Party or DFP [Alhaji Abudu Rahman ISSAKAH]; Every Ghanaian
  Living Everywhere or EGLE; Great Consolidated Popular Party or GCPP
  [Dan LARTEY]; National Democratic Congress or NDC [Dr. Kwabena
  ADJEI]; New Patriotic Party or NPP [Peter MAC-MANU]; People's
  National Convention or PNC [Alhaji Amed RAMADAN]; Reform Party
  [Kyeretwie OPUKU]; United Renaissance Party or URP [Charles WAYO]

Gibraltar
  Gibraltar Liberal Party [Joseph GARCIA]; Gibraltar Social
  Democrats or GSD [Peter CARUANA]; Gibraltar Socialist Labor Party or
  GSLP [Joseph John BOSSANO]

Greece
  Coalition of the Left and Progress (Synaspismos) [Alekos
  ALAVANOS]; Communist Party of Greece or KKE [Aleka PAPARIGA]; New
  Democracy or ND (conservative) [Konstandinos KARAMANLIS];
  Panhellenic Socialist Movement or PASOK [Yiorgos PAPANDREOU];
  Popular Orthodox Rally or LAOS [Yeoryios KARATZAFERIS]

Greenland
  Atassut Party (Solidarity) [Finn KARLSEN] (a conservative
  party favoring continuing close relations with Denmark); Demokratiit
  [Per BERTHELSEN]; Inuit Ataqatigiit or IA (Eskimo Brotherhood)
  [Josef MOTZFELDT] (a leftist party favoring complete independence
  from Denmark rather than home rule); Kattusseqatigiit (Candidate
  List) (an independent right-of-center party with no official
  platform); Siumut (Forward Party) [Hans ENOKSEN] (a social
  democratic party advocating more distinct Greenlandic identity and
  greater autonomy from Denmark)

Grenada
  Grenada United Labor Party or GULP [Gloria Payne BANFIELD];
  National Democratic Congress or NDC [Tillman THOMAS]; New National
  Party or NNP [Keith MITCHELL]

Guam
  Democratic Party [leader Michael PHILLIPS]; Republican Party
  [Philip J. FLORES] (controls the legislature)

Guatemala
  Center of Social Action or CASA [Eduardo SUGER]; Democracy
  Front or FRENTE [Alfonso CABRERA]; Democratic Union or UD [Manuel
  CONDE Orellana]; Encounter for Guatemala or EG [Nineth MONTENGRO];
  Grand National Alliance or GANA [Alfredo VILLA]; Guatemalan National
  Revolutionary Unity or URNG [Hector NUILA]; Guatemalan Republican
  Front or FRG [Efrain RIOS Montt]; National Advancement Party or PAN
  [Ruben Dario MORALES]; National Unity for Hope or UNE [Alvaro COLOM
  Caballeros]; Patriot Party or PP [Ret. Gen. Otto PEREZ Molina];
  Unionista Party or PU [Fritz GARCIA]; Unity of National Change or
  UCN [Sidney SHAW]

Guernsey
  none; all independents

Guinea
  National Union for Progress or UPN [Mamadou Bhoye BARRY];
  Party for Unity and Progress or PUP (the governing party) [Lansana
  CONTE]; People's Party of Guinea or PPG [Charles Pascal TOLNO];
  Rally for the Guinean People or RPG [Alpha CONDE]; Union of
  Democratic Forces of Guinea or UFDG [Cellou Dalein DIALLO]; Union of
  Republican Forces or UFR [Sidya TOURE]; Union for Progress of Guinea
  or UPG [Jean-Marie DORE, secretary-general]; Union for Progress and
  Renewal or UPR [Ousmane BAH]

Guinea-Bissau
  African Party for the Independence of Guinea-Bissau
  and Cape Verde or PAIGC [Carlos GOMES Junior]; Party for Social
  Renewal or PRS [Kumba YALA]; Democratic Social Front or FDS;
  Electoral Union or UE; Guinea-Bissau Civic Forum/Social Democracy or
  FCGSD [Antonieta Rosa GOMES]; Guinea-Bissau Democratic Party or PDG;
  Guinea-Bissau Socialist Democratic Party or PDSG [Serifo BALDE];
  Labor and Solidarity Party or PST [Iancuba INDJAI]; Party for
  Democratic Convergence or PCD [Victor MANDINGA]; Party for Renewal
  and Progress or PRP; Progress Party or PP [Ibrahima SOW]; Union for
  Change or UM [Amine SAAD]; Union of Guinean Patriots or UPG
  [Francisca VAZ]; United Platform or UP (coalition formed by PCD,
  FDS, FLING, and RGB-MB); United Popular Alliance or APU; United
  Social Democratic Party or PUSD

Guyana
  Alliance for Change or AFC [Raphael TROTMAN and Khemraj
  RAMJATTAN]; Guyana Action Party or GAP [Paul HARDY]; Justice for All
  Party [C.N. SHARMA]; People's National Congress/Reform or PNC/R
  [Robert Herman Orlando CORBIN]; People's Progressive Party/Civic or
  PPP/C [Bharrat JAGDEO]; Rise, Organize, and Rebuild or ROAR [Ravi
  DEV]; The United Force or TUF [Manzoor NADIR]; The Unity Party [Joey
  JAGAN]; Vision Guyana [Peter RAMSAROOP]; Working People's Alliance
  or WPA [Rupert ROOPNARAINE]

Haiti
  Artibonite in Action or LAAA [Youri LATORTUE]; Assembly of
  Progressive National Democrats or RDNP [Leslie MANIGAT]; Convention
  for Democratic Unity or KID [Evans PAUL]; Cooperative Action to
  Build Haiti or KONBA [Evans LESCOUFALIR]; Democratic Alliance or
  ALYANS [Evans PAUL] (coalition composed of KID and PPRH); Effort and
  Solidarity to Create an Alternative for the People or ESKAMP [Joseph
  JASME]; For Us All or PONT [Jean-Marie CHERESTAL]; Front for Hope or
  L'ESPWA [Rene PREVAL] (alliance of ESKAMP, PLB, and grass-roots
  organizations Grand-Anse Resistance Committee, the Central Plateau
  Peasants' Group, and Kombit Sudest); Haitian Christian Democratic
  Party or PDCH [Osner FEVRY and Marie-Denise CLAUDE]; Haitian
  Democratic and Reform Movement or MODEREH [Dany TOUSSAINT and Pierre
  Soncon PRINCE]; Heads Together or Tet-Ansanm [Dr. Gerard BLOT];
  Independent Movement for National Reconciliation or MIRN [Luc
  FLEURINORD]; Justice for Peace and National Development or JPDN
  [Rigaud DUPLAN]; Fanmi Lavalas or FL [Rudy HERIVEAUX]; Liberal Party
  of Haiti or PLH [Gehy MICHEL]; Merging of Haitian Social Democratic
  Parties or FUSION or FPSDH [Serge GILLES] (coalition of Ayiti
  Capable, Haitian National Revolutionary Party, and National Congress
  of Democratic Movements); Mobilization for Haiti's Development or
  MPH [Samir MOURRA]; Mobilization for National Development or MDN
  [Hubert de RONCERAY]; Movement for National Reconstruction or MRN
  [Jean Henold BUTEAU]; Movement for the Installation of Democracy in
  Haiti or MIDH [Marc BAZIN]; National Christian Union for the
  Reconstruction of Haiti or UNCRH [Marie Claude GERMAIN]; National
  Front for the Reconstruction of Haiti or FRN [Guy PHILIPPE]; New
  Christian Movement for a New Haiti or MOCHRENA [Luc MESADIEU]; Open
  the Gate Party or PLB [Anes LUBIN]; Popular Party for the Renewal of
  Haiti or PPRH [Claude ROMAIN]; Struggling People's Organization or
  OPL [Edgard LEBLANC]; Union of Nationalist and Progressive Haitians
  or UNITE [Edouard FRANCISQUE]

Holy See (Vatican City)
  none

Honduras
  Christian Democratic Party or PDC [Felicito AVILA];
  Democratic Unification Party or PUD [Cesar HAM]; Liberal Party or PL
  [Patricia RODAS]; National Innovation and Unity Party or PINU [Jorge
  AQUILAR Paredes]; National Party of Honduras or PN [Porfirio LOBO]

Hong Kong
  Association for Democracy and People's Livelihood or ADPL
  [Frederick FUNG Kin-kee]; Citizens Party [Alex CHAN Kai-chung];
  Civic Party [KUAN Hsin-chi]; Democratic Alliance for the Betterment
  and Progress of Hong Kong or DAB [TAM Yiu Cheng]; Democratic Party
  [Albert HO]; Frontier Party [Emily LAU Wai-hing]; League of Social
  Democrats [Raymond WONG]; Liberal Party [James TIEN Pei-chun]
  note: political blocs include: pro-democracy - ADPL, Democratic
  Party, Frontier Party, League of Social Democrats; pro-Beijing -
  DAB, Liberal Party, The Alliance (a group of five generally
  pro-government and pro-business Legco members from functional
  constituencies); there is no political party ordinance, so there are
  no registered political parties; politically active groups register
  as societies or companies

Hungary
  Alliance of Free Democrats or SzDSz [Gabor FODOR]; Christian
  Democratic People's Party or KDNP [Zsolt SEMJEN]; Hungarian Civic
  Alliance or Fidesz [Viktor ORBAN, chairman]; Hungarian Democratic
  Forum or MDF [Ibolya DAVID]; Hungarian Socialist Party or MSzP
  [Ferenc GYURCSANY]

Iceland
  Independence Party or IP [Geir H. HAARDE]; Left-Green
  Movement or LGM [Steingrimur SIGFUSSON]; Liberal Party or LP [Gudjon
  KRISTJANSSON]; Progressive Party or PP [Gudni AGUSTSSON]; Social
  Democratic Alliance or SDA [Ingibjorg Solrun GISLADOTTIR] (includes
  People's Alliance or PA, Social Democratic Party or SDP, Women's
  List)

India
  Bahujan Samaj Party or BSP [MAYAWATI]; Bharatiya Janata Party
  or BJP [Rajnath SINGH]; Biju Janata Dal or BJD [Naveen PATNAIK];
  Communist Party of India or CPI [Ardhendu Bhushan BARDHAN];
  Communist Party of India-Marxist or CPI-M [Prakash KARAT]; Dravida
  Munnetra Kazagham or DMK [M. KARUNANIDHI]; Indian National Congress
  or INC [Sonia GANDHI]; Janata Dal (United) or JD(U) [Sharad YADAV];
  Jharkhand Mukti Morcha or JMM [Shibu SOREN]; Left Front (an alliance
  of Indian leftist parties); Lok Jan Shakti Party or LJSP [Ram Vilas
  PASWAN]; Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam or MDMK [V.
  Gopalswamy VAIKO]; Nationalist Congress Party or NCP [Sharad PAWAR];
  Pattali Makkal Katchi or PMK [S. RAMADOSS]; Rashtriya Janata Dal or
  RJD [Laloo Prasad YADAV]; Samajwadi Party or SP [Mulayam Singh
  YADAV]; Shiromani Akali Dal or SAD [Parkash Singh BADAL]; Shiv Sena
  or SS [Bal THACKERAY]; Telangana Rashtriya Samithi or TRS [K.
  Chandrashekhar RAO]; Telugu Desam Party or TDP [Chandrababu NAIDU];
  United Progressive Alliance or UPA [Sonia GANDHI] (India's ruling
  party coalition of 12 political parties); note - India has dozens of
  national and regional political parties; only parties or coalitions
  with four or more seats in the People's Assembly are listed

Indonesia
  Crescent Moon and Star Party or PBB [MS KABAN]; Democratic
  Party or PD [Hadi UTOMO]; Functional Groups Party or Golkar [Yusuf
  KALLA]; Indonesia Democratic Party-Struggle or PDI-P [MEGAWATI
  Sukarnoputri]; National Awakening Party or PKB; National Mandate
  Party or PAN [Sutrisno BACHIR]; Prosperous Justice Party or PKS
  [Tifatul SEMBIRING]; United Development Party or PPP [Suryadharma
  ALI]

Iran
  formal political parties are a relatively new phenomenon in
  Iran and most conservatives still prefer to work through political
  pressure groups rather than parties, and often political parties or
  coalitions are formed prior to elections and disbanded soon
  thereafter; a loose pro-reform coalition called the 2nd Khordad
  Front, which includes political parties as well as less formal
  groups and organizations, achieved considerable success at elections
  to the sixth Majles in early 2000; groups in the coalition include:
  Islamic Iran Participation Front (IIPF), Executives of Construction
  Party (Kargozaran), Solidarity Party, Islamic Labor Party, Mardom
  Salari, Mojahedin of the Islamic Revolution Organization (MIRO), and
  Militant Clerics Society (Ruhaniyun); the coalition participated in
  the seventh Majles elections in early 2004; following his defeat in
  the 2005 presidential elections, former MCS Secretary General and
  sixth Majles Speaker Mehdi KARUBI formed the National Trust Party; a
  new conservative group, Islamic Iran Developers Coalition
  (Abadgaran), took a leading position in the new Majles after winning
  a majority of the seats in February 2004; following the 2004 Majles
  elections, traditional and hardline conservatives have attempted to
  close ranks under the United Front of Principlists; the IIPF has
  repeatedly complained that the overwhelming majority of its
  candidates have been unfairly disqualified from the 2008 elections

Iraq
  Assyrian Democratic Movement [Yunadim KANNA]; Badr Organization
  [Hadi al-AMIRI]; Constitutional Monarchy Movement or CMM [Sharif Ali
  Bin al-HUSAYN]; Da'wa al-Islamiya Party [Ibrahim al-JA'FARI];
  General Conference of Iraqi People [Adnan al-DULAYMI]; Independent
  Iraqi Alliance or IIA [Falah al-NAQIB]; Iraqi Communist Party [Hamid
  MAJEED]; Iraqi Front for National Dialogue [Salih al-MUTLAQ]; Iraqi
  Hizballah [Karim Mahmud al-MUHAMMADAWI]; Iraqi Independent Democrats
  or IID [Adnan PACHACHI, Mahdi al-HAFIZ]; Iraqi Islamic Party or IIP
  [Tariq al-HASHIMI]; Iraqi National Accord or INA [Ayad ALLAWI];
  Iraqi National Congress or INC [Ahmad CHALABI]; Iraqi National
  Council for Dialogue or INCD [Khalaf Ulayan al-Khalifawi
  al-DULAYMI]; Iraqi National Unity Movement or INUM [Ahmad
  al-KUBAYSI]; Islamic Action Organization or IAO [Ayatollah Muhammad
  al-MUDARRISI]; Islamic Supreme Council of Iraq or ISCI [Abd al-Aziz
  al-HAKIM]; Jama'at al Fadilah or JAF [Muhammad Ali al-YAQUBI];
  Kurdistan Democratic Party or KDP [Masud BARZANI]; Kurdistan Islamic
  Union [Salah ad-Din Muhammad BAHA al-DIN]; National Reconciliation
  and Liberation Party [Mishan al-JABBURI]; Patriotic Union of
  Kurdistan or PUK [Jalal TALABANI]; Sadrist Trend [Muqtada al-SADR]
  (not an organized political party, but it fields independent
  candidates affiliated with Muqtada al-SADR); Sahawa al-Iraq [Ahmed
  al-RISHAWI]
  note: the Kurdistan Alliance, Iraqi National List, Tawafuq Front,
  Iraqi Front for National Dialogue, and Unified Iraqi Alliance were
  only electoral slates consisting of the representatives from the
  various Iraqi political parties

Ireland
  Fianna Fail [Brian COWEN]; Fine Gael [Enda KENNY]; Green
  Party [John GORMLEY]; Labor Party [Eamon GILMORE]; Progressive
  Democrats [Mary HARNEY, acting leader]; Sinn Fein [Gerry ADAMS];
  Socialist Party [Joe HIGGINS]; The Workers' Party [Sean GARLAND]

Isle of Man
  Alliance for Progressive Government; Liberal Vannin
  Party [Peter KARRAN]; Man Labor Party; Man Nationalist Party (Mec
  Vannin) [Bernard MOFFATT]
  note: most members sit as independents

Israel
  Balad [Azmi BISHARA]; Democratic Front for Peace and Equality
  (HADASH) [Muhammad BARAKEH]; GIL (Pensioners) [Rafael "Rafi" EITAN];
  Kadima [Tzipora "Tzipi" LIVNI]; Labor Party [Ehud BARAK]; Likud
  [Binyamin NETANYAHU]; Meretz-Yachad [Haim ORON]; National Democratic
  Assembly (Balad) [Jamal ZAHALKA]; National Union (NU)/National
  Religious Party (NRP) [Binyamin ELON]; SHAS [Eliyahu YISHAI]; Torah
  and Shabbat Judaism or UTJ [Yaakov LITZMAN]; United Arab List
  [Ibrahim SARSUR]; Yisrael Beiteinu [Avigdor LIEBERMAN]

Italy
  Silvio BERLUSCONI coalition: People of Freedom or PdL [Silvio
  BERLUSCONI]; Lega Nord or LN [Umberto BOSSI]; Movement for Autonomy
  or MpA [Raffaele LOMBARDO]
  Walter VELTRONI coalition: Democratic Party or PD [Walter VELTRONI];
  Italy of Values or IdV [Antonio DI PIETRO]
  other non-allied parties: Union of the Centre or UdC [Savino
  PEZZOTTA]

Jamaica
  Jamaica Labor Party or JLP [Bruce GOLDING]; People's
  National Party or PNP [Portia SIMPSON-MILLER]; National Democratic
  Movement or NDM [Michael WILLIAMS]

Japan
  Democratic Party of Japan or DPJ [Ichiro OZAWA]; Japan
  Communist Party or JCP [Kazuo SHII]; Komeito [Akihiro OTA]; Liberal
  Democratic Party or LDP [Taro ASO]; Social Democratic Party or SDP
  [Mizuho FUKUSHIMA]

Jersey
  two declared parties: Centre Party; Jersey Democratic Alliance
  note: all senators and deputies elected in 2005 were independents

Jordan
  al-Ahd Party; Arab Islamic Democratic Movement [Yusuf ABU
  BAKR]; Arab Land Party [Dr. Ayishah Salih HIJAZAYN]; Arab Socialist
  Ba'th Party [Taysir al-HIMSI]; Ba'th Arab Progressive Party [Fu'ad
  DABBUR]; Freedom Party; Future Party; Islamic Action Front or IAF
  [Zaki Sa'ed BANI IRSHEID]; Islamic Center Party [Marwan al-FAURI];
  Jordanian Arab Ansar Party; Jordanian Arab New Dawn Party; Jordanian
  Arab Party; Jordanian Citizens' Rights Movement; Jordanian Communist
  Party [Munir HAMARINAH]; Jordanian Communist Workers Party;
  Jordanian Democratic Left Party [Musa MA'AYTEH]; Jordanian
  Democratic Popular Unity Party [Sa'id Dhiyab Ali MUSTAFA]; Jordanian
  Generations Party [Muhammad KHALAYLEH]; Jordanian Green Party
  [Muhammad BATAYNEH]; Jordanian Labor Party [Dr. Mazin Sulayman
  Jiryis HANNA]; Jordanian Peace Party; Jordanian People's Committees
  Movement; Jordanian People's Democratic Party (Hashd) [Ahmad YUSUF];
  Jordanian Rafah Party; Jordanian Renaissance Party; Mission Party;
  Nation Party [Ahmad al-HANANDEH]; National Action Party (Haqq)
  [Tariq al-KAYYALI]; National Constitutional Party [Abdul Hadi
  MAJALI]; National Popular Democratic Movement [Mahmud al-NUWAYHI];
  Progressive Party [Fawwaz al-ZUBI]

Kazakhstan
  Adilet (Justice) [Maksut NARIKBAYEV, Zeynulla
  ALSHIMBAYEV, Bakhytbek AKHMETZHAN, Yerkin ONGARBAYEV, Tolegan
  SYDYKOV] (formerly Democratic Party of Kazakhstan); Agrarian and
  Industrial Union of Workers Block or AIST (Agrarian Party and Civic
  Party); Ak Zhol Party (Bright Path) [Alikhan BAIMENOV]; Auyl
  (Village) [Gani KALIYEV]; Communist Party of Kazakhstan or KPK
  [Serikbolsyn ABDILDIN]; Communist People's Party of Kazakhstan
  [Vladislav KOSAREV]; National Social Democratic Party
  (NSDP)[Zharmakhan TUYAKBAY]; Nur-Otan [Bakhytzhan ZHUMAGULOV] (the
  Agrarian, Asar, and Civic parties merged with Otan); Patriots' Party
  [Gani KASYMOV]; Rukhaniyat (Spirituality) [Altynshash ZHAGANOVA]

Kenya
  Forum for the Restoration of Democracy-Kenya or FORD-Kenya
  [Musikari KOMBO]; Forum for the Restoration of Democracy-People or
  FORD-People [Simeon NYACHAE]; Kenya African National Union or KANU
  [Uhuru KENYATTA]; National Rainbow Coalition-Kenya or NARC-Kenya
  [Raphael TUJU]; Orange Democratic Movement or ODM [Raila ODINGA];
  Orange Democratic Movement-Kenya or ODM-K [Kalonzo MUSYOKA]; Party
  of National Unity or PNU [Mwai KIBAKI]; Shirikisho Party of Kenya or
  SPK [Chirau Ali MWAKWERE]

Kiribati
  Boutokaan Te Koaua Party or BTK [Taberannang TIMEON];
  Maneaban Te Mauri Party or MTM [Teburoro TITO]; Maurin Kiribati Pati
  or MKP; National Progressive Party or NPP [Dr. Harry TONG]
  note: there is no tradition of formally organized political parties
  in Kiribati; they more closely resemble factions or interest groups
  because they have no party headquarters, formal platforms, or party
  structures

Korea, North
  major party - Korean Workers' Party or KWP [KIM Jong
  Il]; minor parties - Chondoist Chongu Party [RYU Mi Yong] (under KWP
  control), Social Democratic Party [KIM Yong Dae] (under KWP control)

Korea, South
  Creative Korea Party or CKP [MOON Kook-hyun];
  Democratic Labor Party or DLP [CHUN Young-se]; Grand National Party
  or GNP [PARK Hee-tae]; Liberty Forward Party or LFP [LEE Hoi-chang];
  Democratic Party or DP [CHUNG Sye-kyun] (formerly the United
  Democratic Party or UDP)

Kosovo
  Albanian Christian Democratic Party of Kosovo or PShDK [Mark
  KRASNIQI]; Alliance for the Future of Kosovo or AAK [Ramush
  HARADINAJ]; Alliance of Independent Social Democrats of Kososvo and
  Metohija or SDSKIM [Slavisa PETKOVIC]; Autonomous Liberal Party of
  SLS [Slobodan PETROVIC]; Bosniak Vakat Coalition [Dzezair MURATI];
  Citizens' Initiative of Gora or GIG [Murselj HALILI]; Council of
  Independent Social Democrats of Kosovo or SNSDKIM [Ljubisa ZIVIC];
  Democratic League of Dardania or LDD [Nexhat DACI]; Democratic
  League of Kosovo or LDK [Fatmir SEJDIU]; Democratic Party of Ashkali
  of Kosovo or PDAK [Sabit RAHMANI]; Democratic Party of Kosovo or PDK
  [Hashim THACI]; Kosovo Democratic Turkish Party of KDTP [Mahir
  YAGCILAR]; New Democratic Initiative of Kosovo or IRDK [Xhevdet
  NEZIRAJ]; New Democratic Party or ND [Branislav GRBIC]; New Kosovo
  Alliance or AKR [Behxhet PACOLLI]; Popular Movement of Kosovo or LPK
  [Emrush XHEMAJLI]; Reform Party Ora; Serb National Party or SNS
  [Mihailo SCEPANOVIC]; Serbian Kosovo and Metohija Party or SKMS
  [Dragisa MIRIC]; United Roma Party of Kosovo or PREBK [Haxhi Zylfi
  MERXHA]; Democratic Action Party or SDA [Numan BALIC]; Serbian List
  for Kosovo and Metohija [Oliver IVANOVIC]; Serbian National Council
  of Northern Kosovo and Metohija or SNV [Milan IVANOVIC]; Democratic
  Party of Bosniaks [Dzezair MURAIT]; Democratic Party Vatan [Sadik
  IDRIZI]; Gorani Citizens Initiative [Mursel HALJILJI]; Serbian
  People Party [Mihailo SCEPANOVIC]; Serbian Democratic Party of
  Kosovo and Metohija [Slavisa PETKOVIC]; Serb Liberal Party [Slobodan
  PETROVIC]; Independent League of Social-Democrats of Kosovo and
  Metohija [Ljubisa ZIVIC]

Kuwait
  none; formation of political parties is in practice illegal
  but is not forbidden by law

Kyrgyzstan
  Ak Jol [Avtandil ARABAYEV, Elmira IBRAIMOVA, Vladimir
  NIFADYEV, co-chairs]; Ar-Namys (Dignity) Party [Emil ALIYEV]; Asaba
  (Banner National Revival Party) [Azimbek BEKNAZAROV]; Ata-Meken
  (Fatherland) [Omurbek TEKEBAYEV]; Democratic Movement of Kyrgyzstan
  or DDK [Viktor TCHETRNOMORETS]; Erkindik (Freedom) Party [Topchubek
  TURGUNALIYEV]; Moya Strana (My Country Party of Action) [Medet
  SADYRKULOV]; Party of Communists of Kyrgyzstan or KCP [Ishak
  MASALIYEV]; Party of Justice and Progress [Muratbek IMANALIEV];
  Party of Peasants [Esengul ISAKOV]; Republican Party of Labor and
  Unity [Tabaldy OROZALIYEV]; Sanjira (Tree of Life) [Ednan
  KARABAYEV]; Social Democratic Party [Almaz ATAMBAYEV]; Union of
  Democratic Forces [Kubatbek BAIBOLOV]

Laos
  Lao People's Revolutionary Party or LPRP [CHOUMMALI Saignason];
  other parties proscribed

Latvia
  First Party of Latvia/Latvia's Way or LPP/LC [Ainars SLESERS,
  Ivars GODMANIS]; For Human Rights in a United Latvia or PCTVL
  [Jakovs PLINERS]; For the Fatherland and Freedom/Latvian National
  Independence Movement or TB/LNNK [Roberts ZILE, Maris GRINBLATS];
  Harmony Center or SC [Janis URBANOVICS, Nils USAKOVS]; Latvian
  Social Democratic Workers Party (Social Democrats) or LSDSP [Juris
  BOJARS]; Latvian Socialist Party or LSP [Alfreds RUBIKS]; New
  Democrats or JD [Maris GULBIS]; New Era Party or JL [Einars REPSE,
  Krisjanis KARINS]; People's Party or TP [Aigars KALVITIS]; The Union
  of Latvian Greens and Farmers Party or ZZS [Augusts BRIGMANIS]

Lebanon
  14 March Coalition: Democratic Gathering Bloc [Walid
  JUNBLATT, leader of Progressive Socialist Party]; Democratic Left
  [Ilyas ATALLAH]; Democratic Renewal Movement [Nassib LAHUD]; Future
  Movement Bloc [Sa'ad HARIRI]; Kataeb Party [Amine GEMAYEL]; Lebanese
  Forces [Samir JA'JA]; Tripoli Independent Bloc
  8 March Coalition: Development and Resistance Bloc [Nabih BERRI,
  leader of Amal Movement]; Free Patriotic Movement [Michel AWN];
  Loyalty to the Resistance Bloc [Mohammad RA'AD] (includes Hizballah
  Party [Hassan NASRALLAH]); Nasserite Popular Movement [Ussama SAAD];
  Popular Bloc [Elias SKAFF]; Syrian Ba'th Party [Sayez SHUKR]; Syrian
  Social Nationalist Party [Ali QANSO]
  Independent: Metn Bloc [Michel MURR]; Tashnaq

Lesotho
  Alliance of Congress Parties or ACP; All Basotho Convention
  or ABC [Thomas THABANE]; Basotholand African Congress or BAC
  [Khauhelo RALITAPOLE]; Basotho Congress Party or BCP [Ntsukunyane
  MPHANYA]; Basotho National Party or BNP [Maj. Gen. Justin Metsing
  LEKHANYA]; Kopanang Basotho Party or KPB [Pheelo MOSALA]; Lesotho
  Congress for Democracy or LCD (the governing party) [Pakalitha
  MOSISILI]; Lesotho Education Party or LEP [Thabo PITSO]; Lesotho
  Workers Party or LWP [Macaefa BILLY]; Marematlou Freedom Party or
  MFP [Vincent MALEBO]; National Independent Party or NIP [Anthony
  MANYELI]; New Lesotho Freedom Party or NLFP [Manapo MAJARA]; Popular
  Front for Democracy or PFD [Lekhetho RAKUOANE]; Sefate Democratic
  Union or SDU [Bofihla NKUEBE]; Social Democratic Party of SDP
  [Masitise SELESO]

Liberia
  Alliance for Peace and Democracy or APD [Togba-na TIPOTEH];
  Coalition for the Transformation of Liberia or COTOL [H. Varney
  SHERMAN]; Congress for Democratic Change or CDC [George WEAH];
  Liberty Party or LP [Charles BRUMSKINE]; National Patriotic Party or
  NPP [Roland MASSAQUOI]; Unity Party or UP [Ellen JOHNSON SIRLEAF]

Libya
  none

Liechtenstein
  Patriotic Union or VU [Adolf HEEB] (was Fatherland
  Union); Progressive Citizens' Party or FBP [Marcus VOGT]; The Free
  List or FL [Claudia HEEB-FLECK and Egon MATT]

Lithuania
  Civil Democracy Party or PDP [Viktor MUNTIANAS]; Coalition
  of Labor Party and Youth or KDP+J [Viktor USPASKICH]; Electoral
  Action of Lithuanian Poles or LLRA [Valdemar TOMASZEVSKI]; Homeland
  Union - Lithuanian Christian Democrats or TS [Andrius KUBILIUS];
  Lithuanian Peasant Popular Union or LVLS [Kazimiera PRUNSKIENE];
  Liberal and Center Union or LCS [Arturas ZUOKAS]; Liberal Movement
  or LRLS [Eligijus MASIULIS]; National Revival or TPP [Arunas
  VALINSKAS]; New Union (Social Liberal) or NS [Arturas PAULAUSKAS];
  Order and Justice Party or TT [Rolandas PAKSAS]; Social Democratic
  Party or LSDP [Gediminas KIRKILAS]; Young Lithuania and New
  Nationalists [Stanislovas BUSKEVICIUS]

Luxembourg
  Alternative Democratic Reform Party or ADR [Robert
  MENLEN]; Christian Social People's Party or CSV [Francois BILTGEN]
  (also known as Christian Social Party or PCS); Democratic Party or
  DP [Claude MEISCH]; Green Party [Francois BAUSCH]; Luxembourg
  Socialist Workers' Party or LSAP [Alex BODRY]; dei Lenk/la Gauche
  (the Left); other minor parties

Macau
  Civil Service Union [Jose Maria Pereira COUTINHO]; Development
  Union [KWAN Tsui-hang]; Macau Development Alliance [Angela LEONG
  On-kei]; Macau United Citizens' Association [CHAN Meng-kam]; New
  Democratic Macau Association [Antonio NG Kuok-cheong]; United Forces
  note: there is no political party ordinance, so there are no
  registered political parties; politically active groups register as
  societies or companies

Macedonia
  Democratic Alliance [Pavle TRAJANOV]; Democratic League of
  Bosniaks [Rafet MUMINOVIC]; Democratic Party of Albanians or
  PDSh/DPA [Menduh THACI]; Democratic Party of Serbs [Ivan
  STOILJKOVIC]; Democratic Party of Turks [Kenan HASIPI]; Democratic
  Renewal of Macedonia [Liljana POPOVSKA]; Democratic Union of
  Albanians or BDSh [BardYL MAHMUTI]; Democratic Union of Vlachs for
  Macedonia [Mitko KOSTOV]; Democratic Union for Integration or
  BDI/DUI [Ali AHMETI]; For a Better Macedonia coalition [Nikola
  GRUEVSKI] (includes VMRO-DPMNE, SP, Democratic Union, Democratic
  Renewal of Macedonia, Democratic Party of Turks, Democratic Party of
  Serbs, SR, and smaller parties); Internal Macedonian Revolutionary
  Organization-Democratic Party for Macedonian National Unity or
  VMRO-DPMNE [Nikola GRUEVSKI]; Internal Macedonian Revolutionary
  Organization-People's Party or VMRO-Narodna [Gjorgji TRENDAFILOV];
  League for Democracy [Gjorgi MARJANOVIC]; Liberal Democratic Party
  or LDP [Jovan MANSIEVSKI]; Liberal Party [Stojan ANDOV]; National
  Alternative [Harun ALIU]; National Democratic Union or BDK [Hysni
  SHAQIR]; New Social Democratic Party or NSDP [Tito PETKOVSKI]; Party
  for Democratic Prosperity or PPD/PDP [Abduljhadi VEJSELI]; Party for
  European Future or PEI [Fijat CANOSKI]; Party of Free Democrats or
  PSD [Ljubco JORDANOVSKI]; Social Democratic Alliance of Macedonia or
  SDSM [Zoran ZAEV (until May 2009)]; Socialist Party of Macedonia or
  SP [Ljubisav IVANOV-ZINGO]; Sun-Coalition for Europe [Radmila
  SKERINSKA] (includes SDSM, NSDP, LDP, Liberal Party and smaller
  parties); Union of Romas or SR [Shaban SALIU]; United Party for
  Emancipation or OPE [Nezdet MUSTAFA]

Madagascar
  Association for the Rebirth of Madagascar or AREMA
  [Pierrot RAJAONARIVELO]; Democratic Party for Union in Madagascar or
  PSDUM [Jean LAHINIRIKO]; Economic Liberalism and Democratic Action
  for National Recovery or LEADER/Fanilo [Herizo RAZAFIMAHALEO];
  Fihaonana Party or FP [Guy-Willy RAZANAMASY]; I Love Madagascar or
  TIM [Marc RAVALOMANANA]; Renewal of the Social Democratic Party or
  RPSD [Evariste MARSON]

Malawi
  Alliance for Democracy or AFORD; Congress for National Unity
  or CONU; Democratic Progressive Party or DPP [Bingu wa MUTHARIKA];
  Malawi Congress Party or MCP [John TEMBO]; Malawi Democratic Party
  or MDP [Kampelo KALUA]; Malawi Forum for Unity and Development or
  MAFUNDE [George MNESA]; Mgwirizano Coalition or MC [Gwandaguluwe
  CHAKUAMBA] (coalition of MAFUNDE, MDP, MGODE, NUP, PETRA, PPM, RP);
  Movement for Genuine Democratic Change or MGODE [Sam Kandodo BANDA];
  National Democratic Alliance or NDA [Brown MPINGANJIRA]; National
  Unity Party or NUP [Harry CHIUME]; People's Progressive Movement or
  PPM [Aleke BANDA]; People's Transformation Movement or PETRA [Kamuzu
  CHIBAMBO]; Republican Party or RP [Gwandaguluwe CHAKUAMBA]; United
  Democratic Front or UDF [Bakili MULUZI]

Malaysia
  National Front (Barisan Nasional) or BN (ruling coalition)
  consists of the following parties: Gerakan Rakyat Malaysia Party or
  PGRM [KOH Tsu Koon - acting]; Liberal Democratic Party (Parti
  Liberal Demokratik - Sabah) or LDP [LIEW Vui Keong]; Malaysian
  Chinese Association (Persatuan China Malaysia) or MCA [ONG Ka Ting];
  Malaysian Indian Congress (Kongres India Malaysia) or MIC [S. Samy
  VELLU]; Parti Bersatu Rakyat Sabah or PBRS [Joseph KURUP]; Parti
  Bersatu Sabah or PBS [Joseph PAIRIN Kitingan]; Parti Pesaka
  Bumiputera Bersatu or PBB [Abdul TAIB Mahmud]; Parti Rakyat Sarawak
  or PRS [James MASING]; Sabah Progressive Party (Parti Progresif
  Sabah) or SAPP [YONG Teck Lee]; Sarawak United People's Party (Parti
  Bersatu Rakyat Sarawak) or SUPP [George CHAN Hong Nam]; United
  Malays National Organization or UMNO [ABDULLAH bin Ahmad Badawi];
  United Pasokmomogun Kadazandusun Murut Organization (Pertubuhan
  Pasko Momogun Kadazan Dusun Bersatu) or UPKO [Bernard DOMPOK];
  People's Progressive Party (Parti Progresif Penduduk Malaysia) or
  PPP [M.Kayveas]; Sarawak Progressive Democratic Party or SPDP
  [William MAWAN])
  People's Alliance (Pakatan Rakyat) or PR (opposition coalition)
  consists of the following parties:: Democratic Action Party (Parti
  Tindakan Demokratik) or DAP [KARPAL Singh]; Islamic Party of
  Malaysia (Parti Islam se Malaysia) or PAS [Abdul HADI Awang];
  People's Justice Party (Parti Keadilan Rakyat) or PKR [WAN AZIZAH
  Wan Ismael]; Sarawak National Party or SNAP [Edwin DUNDANG]

Maldives
  Adhaalath (Justice) Party or AP [Abdul Majeed Abdul BARI];
  Dhivehi Rayyithunge Party (Maldivian People's Party) or DRP [Maumoon
  Abdul GAYOOM]; Islamic Democratic Party or IDP [Omar NASEER];
  Maldivian Democratic Party or MDP [Mohamed NASHEED]; note -
  political parties were allowed to register in June 2005

Mali
  Alliance for Democratic Change (political group comprised
  mainly of Tuareg from Mali's northern region); African Solidarity
  for Democracy and Independence or SADI [Oumar MARIKO, secretary
  general]; Alliance for Democracy and Progress or ADP (a coalition of
  political parties including ADEMA and URD formed in December 2006 to
  support the presidential candidacy of Amadou TOURE); Alliance for
  Democracy or ADEMA [Diounconda TRAORE]; Convergence 2007 [Soumeylou
  Boubeye MAIGA]; Front for Democracy and the Republic or FDR (a
  coalition of political parties including RPM and PARENA formed to
  oppose the presidential candidacy of Amadou TOURE); National
  Congress for Democratic Initiative or CNID [Mountaga TALL]; Party
  for Democracy and Progress or PDP [Me Idrissa TRAORE]; Party for
  National Renewal or PARENA [Tiebile DRAME]; Patriotic Movement for
  Renewal or MPR [Choguel MAIGA]; Rally for Democracy and Labor or
  RDT; Rally for Mali or RPM [Ibrahim Boubacar KEITA]; Sudanese
  Union/African Democratic Rally or US/RDA [Mamadou Bamou TOURE];
  Union for Democracy and Development or UDD [Moussa Balla COULIBALY];
  Union for Republic and Democracy or URD [Soumaila CISSE]

Malta
  Alternativa Demokratika/Alliance for Social Justice or AD
  [Harry VASSALLO]; Malta Labor Party or MLP [acting leader Charles
  MANGION]; Nationalist Party or PN [Lawrence GONZI]

Marshall Islands
  traditionally there have been no formally organized
  political parties; what has existed more closely resembles factions
  or interest groups because they do not have party headquarters,
  formal platforms, or party structures; the following two "groupings"
  have competed in legislative balloting in recent years - Aelon Kein
  Ad Party [Michael KABUA] and United Democratic Party or UDP [Litokwa
  TOMEING]

Mauritania
  Alternative or El-Badil; Centrist Reformists (independent
  moderate Islamists); Coalition for Forces for Democratic Change or
  CFCD (coalition of political parties including APP, Centrist
  Reformists (independent moderate Islamists), HATEM-PMUC, PUDS, RD,
  RFD, UFP); Democratic and Social Republican Party or PRDS;
  Democratic Renewal or RD; Mauritanian Party for Unity and Change or
  HATEM-PMUC; Mithaq (coalition of independents and parties associated
  with the former regime including Alternative or El-Badil, PRDR, UDP,
  RDU); National Rally for Freedom, Democracy and Equality or RNDLE;
  Popular Front or FP [Ch'bih Ould CHEIKH MALAININE]; Popular
  Progressive Alliance or APP [Messoud Ould BOULKHEIR]; Rally of
  Democratic Forces or RFD [Ahmed Ould DADDAH]; Rally for Democracy
  and Unity or RDU [Ahmed Ould SIDI BABA]; Republican Party for
  Democracy and Renewal or PRDR [Boullah Ould MOGUEYA] (formerly
  ruling Democratic and Social Republican Party or PRDS); Socialist
  and Democratic Unity Party or PUDS; Union for Democracy and Progress
  or UDP [Naha Mint MOUKNASS]; Union of Democratic Centre or UCD;
  Union of the Forces for Progress or UFP

Mauritius
  Alliance Sociale or AS [Navinchandra RAMGOOLAM] (governing
  coalition - includes MLD, MMSM, MR, MSD, PMXD); Mauritian Labor
  Party or MLP [Navinchandra RAMGOOLAM]; Mauritian Militant Movement
  or MMM [Paul BERENGER]; Mauritian Socialist Militant Movement or
  MMSM [Madan DOLLOO]; Militant Socialist Movement or MSM [Nando
  BODHA]; Mouvement Republicain or MR [Jayarama VALAYDEN]; Parti
  Mauricien Xavier Duval or PMXD [Xavier Luc DUVAL]; Rodrigues
  Movement or MR [Joseph (Nicholas) Von MALLY]; Rodrigues Peoples
  Organization or OPR [Serge CLAIR]

Mayotte
  Democratic Front or FD [Youssouf MOUSSA]; Mahoran Popular
  Movement or MPM [Ahmed MADI]; Federation of Mahorans or UMP-RPR
  [Mansour KAMARDINE]; Force of the Rally and the Alliance for
  Democracy or FRAP; Movement for Department Status Mayotte or MDM
  [Mouhoutar SALIM]; Renewed Communist Party of Mayotte or MRC [Omar
  SIMBA]; Socialist Party or PS [Ibrahim ABUBACAR] (local branch of
  French Parti Socialiste); Union for French Democracy or UDF [Henri
  JEAN-BAPTISTE]

Mexico
  Convergence for Democracy or CD [Luis MALDONADO Venegas];
  Institutional Revolutionary Party or PRI [Beatriz PAREDES]; Labor
  Party or PT [Alberto ANAYA Gutierrez]; Mexican Green Ecological
  Party or PVEM [Jorge Emilio GONZALEZ Martinez]; National Action
  Party (Partido Accion Nacional) or PAN [German MARTINEZ Cazares];
  New Alliance Party (Partido Nueva Alianza) or PNA [Jorge Antonio
  KAHWAGI Macari]; Party of the Democratic Revolution (Partido de la
  Revolucion Democratica) or PRD [Leonel COTA Montano]; Social
  Democratic and Peasant Alternative Party (Partido Alternativa
  Socialdemocrata y Campesina) or Alternativa [Alberto BEGNE Guerra]

Micronesia, Federated States of
  no formal parties

Moldova
  Christian Democratic People's Party or PPCD [Iurie ROSCA];
  Communist Party of the Republic of Moldova or PCRM [Vladimir
  VORONIN]; Democratic Party or PD [Dumitru DIACOV]; Liberal
  Democratic Party or PLDM [Vladmir FILAT]; National Liberal Party or
  PNL [Vitalia PAVLICENKO]; Our Moldova Alliance or AMN [Serafim
  URECHEAN]; Party for Social Democracy or PDSM [Dumitru BRAGHIS];
  Social Liberal Party or PSL [Oleg SEREBRIAN]

Monaco
  Union for Monaco or UPM (including National Union for the
  Future of Monaco or UNAM); Rally and Issues for Monaco or REM;
  Monaco Together

Mongolia
  Democratic Party or DP [Norovyn ALTANHUYAG]; Mongolian
  People's Revolutionary Party or MPRP [Sanji BAYAR]

Montenegro
  Albanian Alternative or AA [Vesel SINISHTAJ]; Coalition
  for European Montenegro or DPS-SDP (bloc) [Milo DJUKANOVIC]
  (includes Democratic Party of Socialists or DPS [Milo DJUKANOVIC]
  and Social Democratic Party of SDP [Ranko KRIVOKAPIC]); Coalition
  SNP-NS-DSS (bloc) (includes Socialist People's Party or SNP [Srdjan
  MILIC], People's Party of Montenegro or NS [Predrag POPOVIC], and
  Democratic Serbian Party of Montenegro or DSS [Ranko KADIC]);
  Democratic League-Party of Democratic Prosperity or SPP [Mehmet
  BARHDI]; Democratic Union of Albanians or DUA [Ferhat DINOSA];
  Liberals and the Bosniak Party (bloc) [Miodrag ZIVKOVIC] (includes
  Liberal Party of Montenegro or LP [Miodrag ZIVKOVIC] and Bosniak
  Party or BS [Rafet HUSOVIC]); Movement for Changes or PZP [Nebojsa
  MEDOJEVIC]; Serbian List (bloc) [Andrija MANDIC] (includes Party of
  Serb Radicals or SSR [Dusko SEKULIC], People's Socialist Party or
  NSS [Emilo LABUDOVIC], and Serbian People's Party of Montenegro or
  SNS [Andrija MANDIC])

Montserrat
  Montserrat Democratic Party or MDP [Lowell LEWIS];
  Movement for Change and Prosperity or MCAP [Roselyn CASSELL-SEALY];
  New People's Liberation Movement or NPLM [John A. OSBORNE]

Morocco
  Action Party or PA [Muhammad EL IDRISSI]; Alliance of
  Liberties or ADL [Ali BELHAJ]; Annahj Addimocrati or Annahj
  [Abdellah EL HARIF]; Avant Garde Social Democratic Party or PADS
  [Ahmed BENJELLOUN]; Citizen Forces or FC [Abderrahman LAHJOUJI];
  Citizen's Initiatives for Development [Mohamed BENHAMOU];
  Constitutional Union or UC [Mohamed ABIED]; Democratic and
  Independence Party or PDI [Abdelwahed MAACH]; Democratic and Social
  Movement or MDS [Mahmoud ARCHANE]; Democratic Forces Front or FFD;
  Democratic Socialist Party or PSD [Aissa OUARDIGHI]; Democratic
  Society Party or PSD [Zhor CHEKKAFI]; Democratic Union or UD
  [Bouazza IKKEN]; Environment and Development Party or PED [Ahmed EL
  ALAMI]; Front of Democratic Forces or FFD [Thami EL KHYARI];
  Independence Party (Istiqlal) or PI [Abbas EL FASSI]; Justice and
  Development Party or PJD [Abdelilah BENKIRANE]; Labor Party
  [Abdelkrim BENATIK]; Moroccan Liberal Party or PML [Mohamed ZIANE];
  National Democratic Party or PND [Abdallah KADIRI]; National
  Ittihadi Congress Party or CNI [Abdelmajid BOUZOUBAA]; National
  Rally of Independents or RNI [Mustapha EL MANSOURI]; National Union
  of Popular Forces or UNFP [Abdellah IBRAHIM]; Parti Al Ahd or Al Ahd
  [Najib EL OUAZZANI]; Party of Progress and Socialism or PPS [Ismail
  ALAOUI]; Party of Renewal and Equity or PRE [Chakir ACHABAR]; Party
  of the Unified Socialist Left or GSU [Mohamed Ben Said AIT IDDER];
  Popular Movement or MP [Mohamed LAENSER]; Reform and Development
  Party or PRD [Abderrahmane EL KOUHEN]; Social Center Party or PSC
  [Lahcen MADIH]; Socialist Union of Popular Forces or USFP

Mozambique
  Front for the Liberation of Mozambique (Frente de
  Liberatacao de Mocambique) or FRELIMO [Armando Emilio GUEBUZA];
  Mozambique National Resistance-Electoral Union (Resistencia Nacional
  Mocambicana-Uniao Eleitoral) or RENAMO-UE [Afonso DHLAKAMA]

Namibia
  Congress of Democrats or COD [Ben ULENGA]; Democratic
  Turnhalle Alliance of Namibia or DTA [Katuutire KAURA]; Monitor
  Action Group or MAG [Jurie VILJOEN]; National Democratic Movement
  for Change or NamDMC; National Unity Democratic Organization or NUDO
  [Kuaima RIRUAKO]; Rally for Democracy and Progress or RDP [Hidipo
  HAMUTENYA]; Republican Party or RP [Henk MUDGE]; South West Africa
  National Union or SWANU [Rihupisa KANDANDO]; South West Africa
  People's Organization or SWAPO [Hifikepunye POHAMBA]; United
  Democratic Front or UDF [Justus GAROEB]

Nauru
  Democratic Party [Kennan ADEANG]; Nauru Party (informal);
  Nauru First (Naoero Amo) Party; note - loose multiparty system

Nepal
  Chure Bhawar Rastriya Ekata Party [Keshav Prasad MAINALI];
  Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist) [Pushpa Kamal DAHAL, also known as
  PRACHANDA, chairman; Dr. Baburam BHATTARAI]; Communist Party of
  Nepal (ML) [C.P. MAINALI]; Communist Party of Nepal (Unified) [Raj
  Singh SHRIS]; Communist Party of Nepal (United) [Ganesh SHAH];
  Communist Party of Nepal/United Marxist-Leninist or CPN/UML [Amrit
  Kumar BOHARA]; Dalit Janajati Party [Vishwendraman PASHWAN];
  Janamorcha Nepal [Amik SHERCHAN]; Madhesi Jana Adhikar Forum
  [Upendra YADAV]; National Democratic Party or NDP [Pashupati
  Shumsher RANA] (also called Rastriya Prajatantra Party or RPP);
  Nepal Loktantrik Samajbadi Dal [Upendra GACHCHHADAR]; Nepal Pariwar
  Dal [Vinod DANGI]; Nepal Rastriya Party [Khushilal YADAV]; Nepal
  Sadbhavana Party (Anandi Devi) [Shyam Sundar GUPTA]; Nepal Workers
  and Peasants Party or NWPP [Narayan Man BIJUKCHHE]; Nepali Congress
  Party or NCP [Girija Prasad KOIRALA]; Nepali Janata Dal [Bharat
  Prasad MAHATO]; Rastriya Janamorcha [Chitra BAHADUR K.C.]; Rastriya
  Janamukti Party [Malwar Singh THAPA]; Rastriya Janashakti Party or
  RJP [Surya Bahadur THAPA] (split from RPP in March 2005); Rastriya
  Prajatantra Party Nepal [Kamal THAPA]; Sadbhavana Party (Mahato)
  [Rajendra MAHATO]; Samajbadi Prajatantrik Janata Party Nepal [Prem
  Bahadur SINGH]; Sanghiya Loktantrik Rastriya Manch [Kamal
  CHHARAHANG]; Terai Madhesi Democratic Party [Mahantha THAKUR]

Netherlands
  Christian Democratic Appeal or CDA [Jan Peter
  BALKENENDE]; Christian Union Party [Andre ROUVOET]; Democrats 66 or
  D66 [Alexander PECHTOLD]; Green Left Party [Femke HALSEMA]; Labor
  Party or PvdA [Wouter BOS]; Party for Freedom or PVV [Geert
  WILDERS]; Party for the Animals or PvdD [Marianne THIEME]; People's
  Party for Freedom and Democracy (Liberal) or VVD [Mark RUTTE];
  Reformed Political Party of SGP [Bas VAN DER VLIES]; Socialist Party
  [Jan MARIJNISSEN]; plus a few minor parties

Netherlands Antilles
  Bonaire: Democratic Party of Bonaire or PDB
  [Jopi ABRAHAM]; Patriotic Union of Bonaire or UPB [Ramonsito BOOI]
  Curacao: Ban Vota [Norbert GEORGE]; C-93 [Stanley BROWN]; Democratic
  Party of Curacao or DP [Errol HERNANDEZ]; E Mayoria [Aurelio PEDRO];
  Forsa Korsou [Nelson NAVARRO]; Liste Ni'un Paso Atras [Nelson
  PIERRE]; Movemiento Patriotiko Korsou [Reginald LAK]; New Antilles
  Movement or MAN [Charles COOPER]; Partido Akshon Pa Prosperidat I
  Seguridat [Sonja BERKEMEYER]; Partido Laboral Krusada Popular or
  PLKP [Errol COVA]; Party for the Restructured Antilles or PAR [Emily
  de JONGH-ELHAGE]; People's National Party or PNP [Ersilia DE
  LANNOOY]; Pidjin [Jasmin PINEDO]; Pueblo Soberano [Herman WIELS];
  Workers' Liberation Front or FOL [Anthony GODETT]
  Saba: Saba Labor Party [Akilah LEVENSTONE]; Windward Islands
  People's Movement or WIPM [Ray HASSELL]
  Sint Eustatius: Democratic Party of Sint Eustatius or DP-St. E
  [Julian WOODLEY]; Progressive Labor Party [Clyde VAN PUTTEN]; St.
  Eustatius Alliance [Ingrid HOUTMAN-WHITFIELD]
  Sint Maarten: Democratic Party of Sint Maarten or DP-St. M [Sarah
  WESCOTT-WILLIAMS]; Freedom Slate of National Democratic Party
  [Theophilus PRIEST]; National Alliance or NA [William MARLIN];
  People's Progressive Alliance or PPA [Gracita ARRINDELL]; St.
  Maarten People's Party [Johan LEONARD]; United People's Labor Party
  [Bienvenido RICHARDSON]
  note: political parties are indigenous to each island

New Caledonia
  Alliance pour la Caledonie or APLC [Didier LE ROUX];
  Caledonian Union or UC; Federation des Comites de Coordination des
  Independantistes or FCCI [Francois BURCK]; Front National or FN [Guy
  GEORGE]; Front Uni de Liberation Kanak or FULK [Ernest UNE]; Kanak
  Socialist Front for National Liberation or FLNKS (includes PALIKA,
  UNI, UC, and UPM); Parti de Liberation Kanak or PALIKA [Paul
  NEAOUTYINE and Elie POIGOUNE]; Rally for Caledonia in the Republic
  (anti independence) or RPCR-UMP [Jacques LAFLEUR]; The Future
  Together or AE [Harold MARTIN]; Union Nationale pour l'Independance
  or UNI [Paul NEAOUTYINE]; note - may no longer exist, but Paul
  NEAOUTYINE has since become a president of Parti de Liberation Kanak
  or PALIKA; Union Progressiste Melanesienne or UPM [Victor TUTUGORO]

New Zealand
  ACT New Zealand [Rodney HIDE]; Green Party [Jeanette
  FITZSIMONS]; Maori Party [Whatarangi WINIATA]; National Party or NP
  [John KEY]; New Zealand First Party or NZFP [Winston PETERS]; New
  Zealand Labor Party or NZLP [Phil GOFF]; Progressive Party [James
  (Jim) ANDERTON]; United Future or UF [Peter DUNNE]

Nicaragua
  Conservative Party or PC [Azalia AVILES Salmeron]; Liberal
  Constitutionalist Party or PLC [Jorge CASTILLO Quant]; Nicaraguan
  Liberal Alliance or ALN [Eduardo MONTEALEGRE]; Sandinista National
  Liberation Front or FSLN [Daniel ORTEGA Saavedra]; Sandinista
  Renovation Movement or MRS [Enrique SAENZ Navarrete]

Niger
  Democratic and Social Convention-Rahama or CDS-Rahama
  [Mahamane OUSMANE]; National Movement for a Developing
  Society-Nassara or MNSD-Nassara [Hama AMADOU]; Niger Social
  Democratic Party or PSDN; Nigerien Alliance for Democracy and Social
  Progress-Zaman Lahiya or ANDP-Zaman Lahiya [Moumouni DJERMAKOYE];
  Nigerien Party for Autonomy or PNA-Alouma'a [Sanousi JACKOU];
  Nigerien Party for Democracy and Socialism or PNDS-Tarrayya [Issifou
  MAHAMADOU]; Nigerien Progressive Party or PPN-RDA [Abdoulaye DIORI];
  Rally for Democracy and Progress or RDP-jama'a [Hamid ALGABID];
  Social and Democratic Rally or RSD-Gaskiyya [Cheiffou AMADOU]

Nigeria
  Accord Party [Ikra Aliyu BILBIS]; Action Congress or AC
  [Hassan ZUMI]; Alliance for Democracy or AD [Mojisoluwa AKINFENWA];
  All Nigeria Peoples' Party or ANPP [Edwin UME-EZEOKE]; All
  Progressives Grand Alliance or APGA [Victor C. UMEH]; Democratic
  People's Party or DPP [Jeremiah USENI]; Fresh Democratic Party
  [Chris OKOTIE]; Labor Party [Dan NWANYANWU]; Movement for the
  Restoration and Defense of Democracy or MRDD [Mohammed Gambo
  JIMETA]; National Democratic Party or NDP [Aliyu Habu FARI]; Peoples
  Democratic Party or PDP [vacant]; Peoples Progressive Alliance
  [Clement EBRI]; Peoples Redemption Party or PRP [Abdulkadir Balarabe
  MUSA]; Peoples Salvation Party or PSP [Lawal MAITURARE]; United
  Nigeria Peoples Party or UNPP [Mallam Selah JAMBO]

Niue
  Alliance of Independents or AI; Niue People's Action Party or
  NPP [Young VIVIAN]

Norfolk Island
  none

Northern Mariana Islands
  Covenant Party [Benigno R. FITIAL];
  Democratic Party [Dr. Carlos S. CAMACHO]; Republican Party [Juan S.
  REYES]

Norway
  Center Party [Aslaug Marie HAGA]; Christian People's Party
  [Dagfinn HOYBRATEN]; Conservative Party [Erna SOLBERG]; Labor Party
  [Jens STOLTENBERG]; Liberal Party [Lars SPONHEIM]; Progress Party
  [Siv JENSEN]; Socialist Left Party [Kristin HALVORSEN]

Oman
  none

Pakistan
  Awami National Party or ANP [Asfandyar Wali KHAN];
  Balochistan National Party-Hayee Group or BNP-H [Dr. Hayee BALOCH];
  Balochistan National Party-Awami or BNP-A [Moheem Khan BALOCH];
  Balochistan National Party-Mengal or BNP-M [Sardar Ataullah MENGAL];
  Jamhoori Watan Party or JWP; Jamiat Ahle Hadith or JAH [Sajid MIR];
  Jamaat-i Islami or JI [Qazi Hussain AHMED]; Jamiat Ulema-i Islam
  Fazlur Rehman or JUI-F [Fazlur REHMAN]; Jamiat Ulema-i Islam Sami-ul
  HAQ or JUI-S [Sami ul-HAQ]; Jamiat Ulema-i Pakistan or JUP [Shah
  Faridul HAQ]; Muttahida Majlis-e Amal or MMA [Qazi Hussain AHMED];
  Muttahida Qaumi Movement or MQM [Altaf HUSSAIN]; National Alliance
  or NA [Ghulam Mustapha JATOI] (merged with PML); National Peoples
  Party or NPP; Pakhtun Khwa Milli Awami Party or PKMAP [Mahmood Khan
  ACHAKZAI]; Pakistan Awami Tehrik or PAT [Tahir ul QADRI]; Pakistan
  Muslim League-Functional or PML-F [Pir PAGARO]; Pakistan Muslim
  League-Nawaz Sharif or PML-N [Nawaz SHARIF]; Pakistan Muslim League
  or PML [Chaudhry Shujaat HUSSAIN]; Pakistan Peoples Party-SHERPAO or
  PPP-S [Aftab Ahmed Khan SHERPAO]; Pakistan Peoples Party
  Parliamentarians or PPPP [Bilawal Bhutto ZARDARI, chairman; Asif Ali
  ZARDARI, co-chairman]; Pakistan Tehrik-e Insaaf or PTI [Imran KHAN];
  Tehrik-i Islami [Allama Sajid NAQVI]
  note: political alliances in Pakistan can shift frequently

Palau
  none

Panama
  Democratic Change or CD [Ricardo MARTINELLI]; Democratic
  Revolutionary Party or PRD [Hugo GUIRAUD]; Nationalist Republican
  Liberal Movement or MOLIRENA [Gisela CHUNG]; Panamenista Party or PA
  [Juan Carlos VARELA] (formerly the Arnulfista Party); Patriotic
  Union Party or PU (combination of the Liberal National Party or PLN
  and the Solidarity Party or PS)[Jose Raul MULINO and Anibal
  GALINDO]; Popular Party or PP [Rene ORILLAC] (formerly Christian
  Democratic Party or PDC)

Papua New Guinea
  National Alliance Party or NA [Michael SOMARE];
  Papua and Niugini Union Party or PANGU PATI [Andrew KUMBAKOR]; Papua
  New Guinea Party or PNGP [Sir Mekere MORAUTA]; People's Democratic
  Movement or PDM [Michael OGIO]; People's Action Party or PAP
  [Gabriel KAPRIS]; United Resources Party or URP [William DUMA] (2007)

Paraguay
  Alianza Patriotica por el Cambio (Patriotic Alliance for
  Change) or APC [Fernando LUGO]; Asociacion Nacional Republicana -
  Colorado Party or ANR [Jose Alberto ALDERETE]; Movimiento Union
  Nacional de Ciudadanos Eticos or UNACE [Enrique GONZALEZ Quintana];
  Patria Querida (Beloved Fatherland Party) or PPQ [Pedro Nicolas
  Maraa FADUL Niella]; Partido del Movimiento al Socialismo or P-MAS;
  Partido Encuentro Nacional or PEN [Emilio CAMACHO Paredes]; Partido
  Liberal Radical Autentico or PLRA [Blas LLANO]; Partido Pais
  Solidario or PPS [Carlos Alberto FILIZZOLA Pallares]

Peru
  Alliance For Progress (Alianza Para El Progreso) [Cesar ACUNA
  Peralta]; Alliance For The Future (Alianza Por El Futuro) or AF (a
  coalition of pro-FUJIMORI parties including Cambio 90, Nueva
  Mayoria, and Si Cumple); Central Front (Frente Del Centro) or FC (a
  coalition of Accion Popular, Somos Peru, and Coordinadora Nacional
  de Independientes) [Victor Andres GARCIA Belaunde]; National
  Renovation Party (Partido Renovacion Nacional) [Rafael REY];
  National Restoration Party (Restauracion Nacional) or RN [Humberto
  LAY Sun]; National Unity (Unidad Nacional) or UN (a coalition of
  Partido Popular Cristiano and Partido Solidaridad Nacional) [Lourdes
  FLORES Nano]; Peru Possible (Peru Posible) or PP [Alejandro TOLEDO
  Manrique]; Peruvian Aprista Party (Partido Aprista Peruano) or PAP
  [Alan GARCIA] (also referred to by its original name Alianza Popular
  Revolucionaria Americana or APRA); Peruvian Nationalist Party
  (Partido Nacionalista Peruano) or PNP [Ollanta HUMALA Tasso]; Union
  for Peru (Union por el Peru) or UPP [Aldo ESTRADA Choque]

Philippines
  Genuine Opposition or GO (coalition of oppositon parties
  formed to contest the 2007 elections); Kabalikat Ng Malayang
  Pilipino or Kampi [Ronaldo PUNO]; Laban Ng Demokratikong Pilipino
  (Struggle of Filipino Democrats) or LDP [Edgardo ANGARA]; Lakas Ng
  Edsa (National Union of Christian Democrats) or Lakas [Jose DE
  VENECIA]; Liberal Party or LP [Manuel ROXAS]; Nacionalista [Manuel
  VILLAR]; National People's Coalition or NPC [Frisco SAN JUAN];
  PDP-Laban [Aquilino PIMENTEL]; People's Reform Party [Miriam
  Defensor SANTIAGO]; PROMDI [Emilio OSMENA]; Pwersa Ng Masang
  Pilipino (Party of the Philippine Masses) or PMP [Joseph ESTRADA];
  Reporma [Renato DE VILLA]

Pitcairn Islands
  none

Poland
  Civic Platform or PO [Donald TUSK]; Democratic Left Alliance
  or SLD [Grzegorz NAPIERALSKI]; Democratic Party or PD [Janusz
  ONYSZKIEWICZ]; German Minority of Lower Silesia or MNSO [Henryk
  KROLL]; Law and Justice or PiS [Jaroslaw KACZYNSKI]; League of
  Polish Families or LPR [Sylwester CHRUSZCZ]; Left and Democrats or
  LiD [Wojciech OLEJNICZAK] (a coalition formed by the SLD, PD, SDPL,
  and UP); Polish People's Party or PSL [Waldemar PAWLAK]; Samoobrona
  or SO [Andrzej LEPPER]; Social Democratic Party of Poland or SDPL
  [Bartosz DOMINIK, acting]; Union of Labor or UP [Andrzej SPYCHALSKI]

Portugal
  Democratic and Social Center/Popular Party or CDS/PP [Paulo
  PORTAS]; Green Ecologist Party (The Greens) or PEV [leadership
  commission elected by members]; Portuguese Communist Party or PCP
  [Jeronimo DE SOUSA]; Portuguese Socialist Party or PS [Jose SOCRATES
  Carvalho Pinto de Sousa]; Social Democratic Party or PSD [Manuela
  FERREIRA Leite]; The Left Bloc or BE [Franciso Anacleto LOUCA];
  Unitarian Democratic Coalition or CDU [Jeronimo DE SOUSA] (includes
  PCP and PEV)

Puerto Rico
  National Democratic Party [Roberto PRATS]; National
  Republican Party of Puerto Rico [Dr. Tiody FERRE]; New Progressive
  Party or PNP [Pedro ROSSELLO] (pro-US statehood); Popular Democratic
  Party or PPD [Anibal ACEVEDO-VILA] (pro-commonwealth); Puerto Rican
  Independence Party or PIP [Ruben BERRIOS Martinez] (pro-independence)

Qatar
  none

Romania
  Conservative Party or PC [Daniela POPA] (formerly Humanist
  Party or PUR); Democratic Liberal Party or PDL [Emil BOC];
  Democratic Union of Hungarians in Romania or UDMR [Bela MARKO];
  National Liberal Party or PNL [Calin Popescu-TARICEANU]; Romania
  Mare Party (Greater Romania Party) or PRM [Corneliu Vadim TUDOR];
  Social Democratic Party or PSD [Mircea Dan GEOANA] (formerly Party
  of Social Democracy in Romania or PDSR)

Russia
  Communist Party of the Russian Federation or CPRF [Gennadiy
  Andreyevich ZYUGANOV]; Just Russia [Sergey MIRONOV]; Liberal
  Democratic Party of Russia or LDPR [Vladimir Volfovich
  ZHIRINOVSKIY]; Patriots of Russia [Gennadiy SEMIGIN]; People's Union
  [Sergey BABURIN]; Right Cause [Leonid Yakovlevich GOZMAN, Boris
  Yuriyevich TITOV, and Georgiy Georgiyevich BOVT] (registration
  pending; formed from merger of Union of Right Forces, Democratic
  Party of Russia, and Civic Force); United Russia [Vladimir
  Vladimirovich PUTIN]; Yabloko Party [Sergey Sergeyevich MITROKHIN]

Rwanda
  Centrist Democratic Party or PDC [Alfred MUKEZAMFURA];
  Democratic Popular Union of Rwanda or UDPR [Adrien RANGIRA];
  Democratic Republican Movement or MDR [Celestin KABANDA] (officially
  banned); Islamic Democratic Party or PDI [Andre BUMAYA]; Liberal
  Party or PL [Protais MITALI]; Party for Democratic Renewal
  (officially banned); Rwandan Patriotic Front or RPF [Paul KAGAME];
  Social Democratic Party or PSD [Vincent BIRUTA]

Saint Barthelemy
  Action-Equilibre-Transparence [Maxime DESOUCHES];
  Ensemble pour Saint-Barthelemy [Benoit CHAUVIN]; Saint-Barth
  d'Abord! or SBA [Bruno MAGRAS]; Tous Unis pour Saint-Barthelemy
  [Karine MIOT-RICHARD]

Saint Helena
  none

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  Concerned Citizens Movement or CCM [Vance
  AMORY]; Nevis Reformation Party or NRP [Joseph PARRY]; People's
  Action Movement or PAM [Lindsay GRANT]; Saint Kitts and Nevis Labor
  Party or SKNLP [Dr. Denzil DOUGLAS]

Saint Lucia
  National Alliance or NA [George ODLUM]; Saint Lucia
  Freedom Party or SFP [Martinus FRANCOIS]; Saint Lucia Labor Party or
  SLP [Kenneth ANTHONY]; Sou Tout Apwe Fete Fini or STAFF [Christopher
  HUNTE]; United Workers Party or UWP [Stephenson KING]

Saint Martin
  Union Pour le Progres or UPP [Louis-Constant FLEMING];
  Rassemblement Responsabilite Reussite or RRR [Alain RICHARDSON];
  Reussir Saint-Martin [Jean-Luc HAMLET]

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  Archipelago Tomorrow or AD affiliated with
  UDF/RPR list; Cap sur l'Avenir affiliated with PRG; Left Radical
  Party or PRG; Rassemblement pour la Republique or RPR (now UMP);
  Saint Pierre and Miquelon 2000/Avenir Miquelon or SPM 2000/AM;
  Socialist Party or PS; Union pour la Democratie Francaise or UDF

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  New Democratic Party or NDP [Arnhim
  EUSTACE]; Unity Labor Party or ULP [Ralph GONSALVES] (formed by the
  coalition of Saint Vincent Labor Party or SVLP and the Movement for
  National Unity or MNU)

Samoa
  Human Rights Protection Party or HRPP [Sailele Malielegaoi
  TUILA'EPA]; Samoa Christian Party or TCP [Tuala Tiresa MALIETOA];
  Samoa Democratic United Party or SDUP [LE MAMEA Ropati]; Samoa Party
  or SP [Su'a Rimoni Ah CHONG]; Samoa Progressive Political Party or
  SPPP [Toeolesulusulu SIUEVA]

San Marino
  Communist Refoundation or RC [Ivan FOSHI]; Democrats of
  the Center; Freedom List; Ideas in Movement or IM [Alessandro
  ROSSI]; National Alliance or AN [Glauco SANSOVINI]; New Socialist
  Party [Augusto CASALI]; Party of Socialists and Democrats [Claudio
  FELICI]; San Marino Christian Democratic Party or PDCS [Pier Marino
  MENICUCCI]; San Marino Popular Alliance of Democrats or AP [Roberto
  GIORGETTI]; San Marino Socialist Party or PSS [Alberto CECCHETTI];
  Socialists for Reform or SR [Renzo GIARDI]; Union of Moderates;
  United Left

Sao Tome and Principe
  Force for Change Democratic Movement or MDFM
  [Tome Soares da VERA CRUZ]; Independent Democratic Action or ADI
  [[Patrice TROVOADA]; Movement for the Liberation of Sao Tome and
  Principe-Social Democratic Party or MLSTP-PSD [Rafael BRANCO]; New
  Way Movement or NR; Party for Democratic Convergence or PCD [Delfim
  NEVES]; Ue-Kedadji coalition; other small parties

Saudi Arabia
  none

Senegal
  African Party of Independence [Majhemout DIOP];
  And-Jef/African Party for Democracy and Socialism or AJ/PADS
  [Landing SAVANE]; Alliance of Forces of Progress or AFP [Moustapha
  NIASSE]; Democratic League-Labor Party Movement or LD-MPT [Dr.
  Abdoulaye BATHILY]; Front for Socialism and Democracy/Benno Jubel or
  FSD/BJ [Cheikh Abdoulaye Bamba DIEYE]; Gainde Centrist Bloc or BGC
  [Jean-Paul DIAS]; Independence and Labor Party or PIT [Amath
  DANSOKHO]; Jef-Jel [Talla SYLLA]; National Democratic Rally or RND
  [Madior DIOUF]; People's Labor Party or PTP [Elhadji DIOUF]; Reform
  Party or PR [Abdourahim AGNE]; Senegalese Democratic Party or PDS
  [Abdoulaye WADE]; Socialist Party or PS [Ousmane Tanor DIENG]; SOPI
  Coalition [Abdoulaye WADE] (a coalition led by the PDS); Union for
  Democratic Renewal or URD [Djibo Leyti KA]

Serbia
  Coalition of Albanians of the Presevo Valley or KAPD [Riza
  HALIMI]; Coalition for Sandzak or KZS [Sulejman UGLJANIN];
  Democratic Party of Albanians or PDSh [Ragmi MUSTAFA]; Democratic
  Party of Serbia or DSS [Vojislav KOSTUNICA]; Democratic Party or DS
  [Boris TADIC]; Democratic Union of the Valley or BDL [Skender
  DESTANI]; For a European Serbia [Boris TADIC]; Force of Serbia
  Movement or PSS [Bogoljub KARIC]; G17 Plus [Mladjan DINKIC]; League
  of Vojvodina Hungarians or SVM [Istvan PASTOR]; Liberal Democratic
  Party or LDP [Cedomir JOVANOVIC]; Movement for Democratic Progress
  or LPD [Jonuz MUSLIU]; New Serbia or NS [Velimir ILIC]; Party of
  Democratic Action or PVD [Riza HALIMI]; Roma Party or RP [Srdjan
  SAJN]; Serbian Progressive Party or SNS [Tomislav NIKOLIC]; Serbian
  Radical Party or SRS [Vojislav SESELJ (currently on trial at The
  Hague), but Tomislav NIKOLIC is acting leader]; Socialist Party of
  Serbia or SPS [Ivica DACIC]; Union of Roma of Serbia or URS [Rajko
  DJURIC]

Seychelles
  Democratic Party or DP [James MANCHAM, Paul CHOW];
  Seychelles National Party or SNP [Wavel RAMKALAWAN] (formerly the
  United Opposition or UO); Seychelles People's Progressive Front or
  SPPF [France Albert RENE, James MICHEL] (the governing party)

Sierra Leone
  All People's Congress or APC [Ernest Bai KOROMA]; Peace
  and Liberation Party or PLP [Darlington MORRISON]; People's Movement
  for Democratic Change or PMDC [Charles MARGAI]; Sierra Leone
  People's Party or SLPP [Solomon BEREWA]; numerous others

Singapore
  People's Action Party or PAP [LEE Hsien Loong]; Singapore
  Democratic Alliance or SDA [CHIAM See Tong]; Singapore Democratic
  Party or SDP [CHEE Soon Juan]; Workers' Party or WP [Sylvia LIM Swee
  Lian]
  note: SDA includes Singapore Justice Party or SJP, Singapore
  National Malay Organization or PKMS, Singapore People's Party or SPP

Slovakia
  Parties in the Parliament: Christian Democratic Movement or
  KDH [Pavol HRUSOVSKY]; Direction-Social Democracy or Smer-SD [Robert
  FICO]; Party of the Hungarian Coalition or SMK [Pal CSAKY]; People's
  Party - Movement for a Democratic Slovakia or LS-HZDS [Vladimir
  MECIAR]; Slovak Democratic and Christian Union or SDKU-DS [Mikulas
  DZURINDA]; Slovak National Party or SNS [Jan SLOTA]; Parties outside
  the Parliament: Agrarian Party of the Provinces or ASV [Jozef
  VASKEBA]; Civic Conservative Party or OKS [Peter TATAR]; Free Forum
  [Zuzana MARTINAKOVA]; Hope or NADEJ [Alexandra NOVOTNA]; Left-wing
  Bloc or LB [Jozef KALMAN]; Mission 21 - New Christian Democracy or
  MISIA 21 [Ivan SIMKO]; Movement for Democracy or HZD [Jozef GRAPA];
  New Citizens Alliance or ANO [Pavol RUSKO]; Party of the Democratic
  Left or SDL [Ladislav KOZMON]; Prosperita Slovenska or PS [Frantisek
  A. ZVRSKOVEC]; Slovak Communist Party or KSS [Vladimir DADO]; Slovak
  National Coalition or SLNKO [Vitazoslav MORIC]; Slovak People's
  Party or SLS [Jozef SASIK]; Union of the Workers of Slovakia or ZRS
  [Jan LUPTAK]

Slovenia
  Liberal Democracy of Slovenia or LDS [Katarina KRESAL]; New
  Slovenia or NSi [Andrej BAJUK]; Slovenian Democratic Party or SDS
  [Janez JANSA]; Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia or DeSUS
  [Karl ERJAVEC]; Slovene National Party or SNS [Zmago JELINCIC];
  Slovene People's Party or SLS [Bojan SROT]; Slovene Youth Party or
  SMS [Darko KRANJC]; Social Democrats or SD [Borut PAHOR] (formerly
  ZLSD); ZARES [Gregor Golobic]

Solomon Islands
  Association of Independent Members or AIM [Thomas
  CHAN]; Christian Alliance Solomon Islands or CASI [Edward RONIA];
  LAFARI Party [John GARO]; National Party [Francis HILLY]; People's
  Alliance Party or PAP [Sir Allan KEMAKEZA]; Social Credit Party or
  SOCRED [Manasseh Damukana SOGAVARE]; Solomon First Party [David
  QUAN]; Solomon Islands Democratic Party [Gabriel SURI]; Solomon
  Islands Labor Party or SILP [Joses TUHANUKU]; Solomon Islands
  Liberal Party [Bartholomew ULUFA'ALU]; Solomon Islands Party for
  Rural Advancement or SIPRA [Job D. TAUSINGA]; United Party [Sir
  Peter KENILOREA]
  note: in general, Solomon Islands politics is characterized by fluid
  coalitions

Somalia
  none

South Africa
  African Christian Democratic Party or ACDP [Kenneth
  MESHOE]; African National Congress or ANC [Jacob ZUMA]; Democratic
  Alliance or DA [Helen ZILLE]; Freedom Front Plus or FF+ [Pieter
  MULDER]; Inkatha Freedom Party or IFP [Mangosuthu BUTHELEZI]; New
  National Party or NNP; Pan-Africanist Congress or PAC [Motsoko
  PHEKO]; United Democratic Movement or UDM [Bantu HOLOMISA]

Spain
  Aragonese Party or CHA [Bizen FUSTER]; Basque Nationalist
  Party or PNV [Inigo URKULLU]; Basque Solidarity or EA [Begona
  ERRAZTI]; Canarian Coalition or CC [Jose Torres STINGA] (a coalition
  of five parties); Convergence and Union or CiU [Artur MAS i Gavarro]
  (a coalition of the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia or CDC
  [Artur MAS i Gavarro] and the Democratic Union of Catalonia or UDC
  [Josep Antoni DURAN i LLEIDA]); Entesa Catalonia de Progress (a
  Senate coalition grouping four Catalan parties - PSC, ERC, ICV,
  EUA); Galician Nationalist Bloc or BNG [Anxo Manuel QUINTANA
  Gonzalez]; Initiative for Catalonia Greens or ICV [Joan SAURA i
  Laporta]; Navarra yes or Na Bai [Uxue BARKOS Berruezo] (a coalition
  of four Navarran parties); Popular Party or PP [Mariano RAJOY Brey];
  Republican Left of Catalonia or ERC [Josep-Lluis CAROD-ROVIRA];
  Spanish Socialist Workers Party or PSOE [Jose Luis Rodriguez
  ZAPATERO]; United Left or IU [Gaspar LLAMAZARES Trigo] (a coalition
  of parties including the PCE and other small parties)

Sri Lanka
  All Ceylon Tamil Congress or ACTC [G.PONNAMBALAM]; Ceylon
  Workers Congress or CWC [Arumugam THONDAMAN]; Communist Party or CP
  [D. GUNASEKERA]; Eelam People's Democratic Party or EPDP [Douglas
  DEVANANDA]; Eelam People's Revolutionary Liberation Front or EPRLF
  [Suresh PREMACHANDRAN]; Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna or JVP [Somawansa
  AMARASINGHE]; Lanka Sama Samaja Party or LSSP [Tissa VITHARANA];
  Mahajana Eksath Peramuna (People's United Front) or MEP [D.
  GUNAWARDENE]; National Heritage Party or JHU [Ellawala METHANANDA];
  National Unity Alliance or NUA [Ferial ASHRAFF]; People's Liberation
  Organization of Tamil Eelam or PLOTE [D. SIDHARTHAN]; Sri Lanka
  Freedom Party or SLFP [Mahinda RAJAPAKSA]; Sri Lanka Muslim Congress
  or SLMC [Rauff HAKEEM]; Tamil Eelam Liberation Organization or TELO
  [Selvam ADAIKALANATHAN]; Tamil National Alliance or TNA [R.
  SAMPANTHAN]; Tamil United Liberation Front or TULF [V.
  ANANDASANGAREE]; United National Party or UNP [Ranil
  WICKREMASINGHE]; Up-country People's Front or UPF [P. CHANDRASEKARAN]

Sudan
  National Congress Party or NCP [Umar Hassan al-BASHIR]; Sudan
  People's Liberation Movement or SPLM [Salva Mayardit KIIR]; and
  elements of the National Democratic Alliance or NDA including
  factions of the Democratic Union Party [Muhammad Uthman al-MIRGHANI]
  and Umma Party [SADIQ Siddiq al-Mahdi]; note - all political parties
  listed above in the Government of National Unity

Suriname
  Alternative-1 or A-1 (a coalition of Amazone Party of
  Suriname or APS [Kenneth VAN GENDEREN], Democrats of the 21st
  Century or D-21 [Soewarto MOESTADJA], Nieuw Suriname or NS [Radjen
  Nanan PANDAY], Political Wing of the FAL or PVF [Jiwan SITAL],
  Trefpunt 2000 or T-2000 [Arti JESSURUN]); General Interior
  Development Party or ABOP [Ronnie BRUNSWIJK]; National Democratic
  Party or NDP [Desire BOUTERSE]; New Front for Democracy and
  Development or NF (a coalition that includes A-Combination or A-Com,
  Democratic Alternative 1991 or DA-91, an independent,
  business-oriented party [Winston JESSURUN], National Party Suriname
  or NPS [Ronald VENETIAAN], United Reform Party or VHP [Ramdien
  SARDJOE], Pertjaja Luhur or PL [Salam Paul SOMOHARDJO], Surinamese
  Labor Party or SPA [Siegfried GILDS]); Party for Democracy and
  Development in Unity or DOE [Marten SCHALKWIJK]; People's Alliance
  for Progress or VVV (a coalition of Democratic National Platform
  2000 or DNP-2000 [Jules WIJDENBOSCH], Grassroots Party for Renewal
  and Democracy or BVD [Tjan GOBARDHAN], Party for National Unity and
  Solidarity of the Highest Order or KTPI [Willy SOEMITA], Party for
  Progression, Justice, and Perseverance or PPRS [Renee KAIMAN],
  Pendawalima or PL [Raymond SAPOEN]); Progressive Laborers and
  Farmers Union or PALU [Jim HOK]; Progressive Political Party or PPP
  [Surinder MUNGRA]; Seeka [Paul ABENA]; Union of Progressive
  Surinamers or UPS [Sheoradj PANDAY]

Swaziland
  the status of political parties, previously banned, is
  unclear under the new (2006) Constitution and currently being
  debated - the following are considered political associations;
  African United Democratic Party or AUDP [Stanley MAUNDZISA,
  president]; Imbokodvo National Movement or INM; Ngwane National
  Liberatory Congress or NNLC [Obed DLAMINI, president]; People's
  United Democratic Movement or PUDEMO [Mario MASUKU, president]

Sweden
  Center Party [Maud OLOFSSON]; Christian Democratic Party
  [Goran HAGGLUND]; Environment Party the Greens [no formal leader but
  party spokespersons are Maria WETTERSTRAND and Peter ERIKSSON]; Left
  Party or V (formerly Communist) [Lars OHLY]; Liberal People's Party
  [Jan BJORKLUND]; Moderate Party (conservative) [Fredrik REINFELDT];
  Social Democratic Party [Mona SAHLIN]

Switzerland
  Green Party (Gruene Partei der Schweiz or Gruene, Parti
  Ecologiste Suisse or Les Verts, Partito Ecologista Svizzero or I
  Verdi, Partida Ecologica Svizra or La Verda) [Ruth GENNER];
  Christian Democratic People's Party (Christlichdemokratische
  Volkspartei der Schweiz or CVP, Parti Democrate-Chretien Suisse or
  PDC, Partito Democratico-Cristiano Popolare Svizzero or PDC, Partida
  Cristiandemocratica dalla Svizra or PCD) [Christophe DARBELLAY];
  Radical Free Democratic Party (Freisinnig-Demokratische Partei der
  Schweiz or FDP, Parti Radical-Democratique Suisse or PRD, Partitio
  Liberal-Radicale Svizzero or PLR) [Fulvio PELLI]; Social Democratic
  Party (Sozialdemokratische Partei der Schweiz or SPS, Parti
  Socialist Suisse or PSS, Partito Socialista Svizzero or PSS, Partida
  Socialdemocratica de la Svizra or PSS) [Hans-Juerg FEHR]; Swiss
  People's Party (Schweizerische Volkspartei or SVP, Union
  Democratique du Centre or UDC, Unione Democratica de Centro or UDC,
  Uniun Democratica dal Center or UDC) [Ueli MAURER]; and other minor
  parties

Syria
  legal parties: National Progressive Front or NPF [President
  Bashar al-ASAD, Dr. Suleiman QADDAH] (includes Arab Socialist
  Renaissance (Ba'th) Party [President Bashar al-ASAD]; Socialist
  Unionist Democratic Party [Fadlallah Nasr Al-DIN]; Syrian Arab
  Socialist Union or ASU [Safwan QUDSI]; Syrian Communist Party (two
  branches) [Wissal Farha BAKDASH, Yusuf Rashid FAYSAL]; Syrian Social
  Nationalist Party [Ali QANSU]; Unionist Socialist Party [Fayez
  ISMAIL])
  opposition parties not legally recognized:: Arab Democratic
  Socialist Union Party [Hasan Abdul AZIM]; Arab Socialist Movement;
  Democratic Ba'th Party [Ibrahim MAHKOS]; People's Democratic Party
  [Riad al TURK]; Revolutionary Workers' Party [Abdul Hafeez al HAFEZ]
  Kurdish parties (considered illegal): Kurdish Democratic Front
  [Abdul Hamid DARWISH] (includes four parties); Kurdish Coordination
  [Abdul Hakim BASHAR] (includes Azadi Party [Kheirudin MURAD], Future
  Party [Masha'l TAMMO], Yekity Party [Hasam SALE])
  other parties: Nahda Party [Abdul Aziz al MISLET]; Syrian Democratic
  Party [Mustafa QALAAJI]

Taiwan
  Democratic Progressive Party or DPP [TSAI Ing-wen];
  Kuomintang or KMT (Nationalist Party) [WU Po-hsiung]; Non-Partisan
  Solidarity Union or NPSU [CHANG Po-ya]; People First Party or PFP
  [James SOONG]

Tajikistan
  Agrarian Party of Tajikistan or APT [Amir KARAKULOV];
  Democratic Party or DPT [Mahmadruzi ISKANDAROV (imprisoned October
  2005); Rahmatullo VALIYEV, deputy]; Islamic Revival Party [Muhiddin
  KABIRI]; Party of Economic Reform or PER [Olimzon BOBOYEV]; People's
  Democratic Party of Tajikistan or PDPT [Emomali RAHMON]; Social
  Democratic Party or SDPT [Rahmatullo ZOYIROV]; Socialist Party or
  SPT [Mirhuseyn NARZIYEV]; Tajik Communist Party or CPT [Shodi
  SHABDOLOV]

Tanzania
  Chama Cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo (Party of Democracy and
  Development) or CHADEMA [Bob MAKANI]; Chama Cha Mapinduzi or CCM
  (Revolutionary Party) [Jakaya Mrisho KIKWETE]; Civic United Front or
  CUF [Ibrahim LIPUMBA]; Democratic Party [Christopher MTIKLA]
  (unregistered); Tanzania Labor Party or TLP [Augustine Lyatonga
  MREME]; United Democratic Party or UDP [John CHEYO]

Thailand
  Democrat Party or DP (Prachathipat Party) [ABHISIT
  Wetchachiwa, also spelled ABHISIT Vejjajiva]; Matchima Thippatai
  (Middle Way Party) [ANONGWAN Therpsuthin] - disbanded; Motherland
  Party (Peua Pandin Party); People's Power Party (Palang Prachachon
  Party) or PPP [SOMCHAI Wongsawat, acting] - disbanded; Royalist
  People's Party (Pracharaj) [SANOH Thienthong]; Ruam Jai Thai Party
  (Thai Unity Party) [CHETTA Thanacharo, also spelled CHETTHA
  Thanajaro]; Thai Nation Party or TNP (Chat Thai Party) [BARNHARN
  SILPA-ARCHA] - disbanded

Timor-Leste
  Democratic Party or PD [Fernando de ARAUJO]; National
  Congress for Timorese Reconstruction or CNRT [Xanana GUSMAO];
  National Democratic Union of Timorese Resistance or UNDERTIM
  [Cornelio DA Conceicao GAMA]; National Unity Party or PUN [Fernanda
  BORGES]; People's Party of Timor or PPT [Jacob XAVIER];
  Revolutionary Front of Independent Timor-Leste or FRETILIN [Mari
  ALKATIRI]; Social Democratic Association of Timor or ASDT [Francisco
  Xavier do AMARAL]; Social Democratic Party or PSD [Mario
  CARRASCALAO]; Sons of the Mountain Warriors or KOTA [Manuel TILMAN]
  (also known as Association of Timorese Heroes)

Togo
  Action Committee for Renewal or CAR [Yawovi AGBOYIBO];
  Democratic Convention of African Peoples or CDPA; Democratic Party
  for Renewal or PDR; Juvento [Monsilia DJATO]; Movement of the
  Believers of Peace and Equality or MOCEP; Pan-African Patriotic
  Convergence or CPP; Rally for the Support for Development and
  Democracy or RSDD [Harry OLYMPIO]; Rally of the Togolese People or
  RPT [Faure GNASSINGBE]; Socialist Pact for Renewal or PSR; Union for
  Democracy and Social Progress or UDPS [Gagou KOKOU]; Union of Forces
  for a Change or UFC [Gilchrist OLYMPIO]

Tokelau
  none

Tonga
  Tonga Human Rights and Democracy Movement or THRDM [Uliti
  UATA]; People's Democratic Party or PDP [Tesina FUKO]

Trinidad and Tobago
  Congress of the People [Winston DOOKERAN];
  Democratic Action Congress or DAC [Hochoy CHARLES] (only active in
  Tobago); Democratic National Alliance or DNA [Gerald YETMING]
  (coalition of NAR, DDPT, MND); Movement for National Development or
  MND [Garvin NICHOLAS]; National Alliance for Reconstruction or NAR
  [Dr. Carson CHARLES]; People's National Movement or PNM [Patrick
  MANNING]; United National Congress or UNC [Basdeo PANDAY]

Tunisia
  Al-Tajdid Movement [Ahmed IBRAHIM]; Constitutional
  Democratic Rally Party (Rassemblement Constitutionnel Democratique)
  or RCD (official ruling party) [President Zine El Abidine BEN ALI];
  Democratic Forum for Labor and Liberties or FDTL [Mustapha Ben
  JAFAAR]; Green Party for Progress or PVP [Mongi KHAMASSI]; Liberal
  Social Party or PSL [Mondher THABET]; Movement of Socialist
  Democrats or MDS [Ismail BOULAHYA]; Popular Unity Party or PUP
  [Mohamed BOUCHIHA]; Progressive Democratic Party [Maya JERIBI];
  Unionist Democratic Union or UDU [Ahmed INOUBLI]; note - the
  Islamist party, Al Nahda (Renaissance), is outlawed

Turkey
  Anavatan Partisi (Motherland Party) or Anavatan [Erkan
  MUMCU]; Democratic Left Party or DSP [Mehmet Zeki SEZER]; Democratic
  Society Party or DTP [Nurettin DEMIRTAS]; Felicity Party or SP
  [Recai KUTAN] (sometimes translated as Contentment Party); Justice
  and Development Party or AKP [Recep Tayyip ERDOGAN]; Nationalist
  Action Party or MHP [Devlet BAHCELI] (sometimes translated as
  Nationalist Movement Party); People's Rise Party (Halkin Yukselisi
  Partisi) or HYP [Yasar Nuri OZTURK]; Republican People's Party or
  CHP [Deniz BAYKAL]; Social Democratic People's Party or SHP [Murat
  KARAYALCIN]; True Path Party or DYP [Mehmet AGAR] (sometimes
  translated as Correct Way Party); Young Party or GP [Cem Cengiz UZAN]
  note: the parties listed above are some of the more significant of
  the 49 parties that Turkey had on 1 December 2004

Turkmenistan
  Democratic Party of Turkmenistan or DPT [Gurbanguly
  BERDIMUHAMEDOW]
  note: formal opposition parties are outlawed; unofficial, small
  opposition movements exist underground or in foreign countries; the
  two most prominent opposition groups-in-exile have been National
  Democratic Movement of Turkmenistan (NDMT) and the United Democratic
  Party of Turkmenistan (UDPT); NDMT was led by former Foreign
  Minister Boris SHIKHMURADOV until his arrest and imprisonment in the
  wake of the 25 November 2002 attack on President NYYAZOW's motorcade

Turks and Caicos Islands
  People's Democratic Movement or PDM [Floyd
  SEYMOUR]; Progressive National Party or PNP [Michael Eugene MISICK]

Tuvalu
  there are no political parties but members of Parliament
  usually align themselves in informal groupings

Uganda
  Conservative Party or CP [Ken LUKYAMUZI]; Democratic Party or
  DP [Kizito SSEBAANA]; Forum for Democratic Change or FDC [Kizza
  BESIGYE]; Justice Forum or JEEMA [Muhammad Kibirige MAYANJA];
  National Resistance Movement or NRM [Yoweri MUSEVENI]; Peoples
  Progressive Party or PPP [Bidandi SSALI]; Ugandan People's Congress
  or UPC [Miria OBOTE]
  note: a national referendum in July 2005 opened the way for Uganda's
  transition to a multi-party political system

Ukraine
  Christian Democratic Union [Volodymyr STRETOVYCH]; Communist
  Party of Ukraine or CPU [Petro SYMONENKO]; European Party of Ukraine
  [Mykola KATERYNCHUK]; Fatherland Party (Batkivshchyna) [Yuliya
  TYMOSHENKO]; Forward Ukraine! [Viktor MUSIYAKA]; Labor Party of
  Ukraine [Mykola SYROTA]; People's Union Our Ukraine [Vyacheslav
  KYRYLENKO]; Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs [Anatoliy
  KINAKH]; Party of the Defenders of the Fatherland [Yuriy Karmazin];
  People's Movement of Ukraine (Rukh) [Borys TARASYUK]; People's Party
  [Volodymyr LYTVYN]; PORA! (It's Time!) party [Vladyslav KASKIV];
  Progressive Socialist Party [Natalya VITRENKO]; Reforms and Order
  Party [Viktor PYNZENYK]; Party of Regions [Viktor YANUKOVYCH];
  Republican Party [Yuriy BOYKO]; Sobor [Anatoliy MATVIYENKO]; Social
  Democratic Party [Yevhen KORNICHUK]; Social Democratic Party
  (United) or SDPU(o) [Yuriy ZAHORODNIY]; Socialist Party of Ukraine
  or SPU [Oleksandr MOROZ]; Ukrainian People's Party [Yuriy KOSTENKO];
  Viche [Inna BOHOSLOVSKA]

United Arab Emirates
  none

United Kingdom
  Conservative [David CAMERON]; Democratic Unionist
  Party (Northern Ireland) [Peter ROBINSON]; Labor Party [Gordon
  BROWN]; Liberal Democrats [Nick CLEGG]; Party of Wales (Plaid Cymru)
  [Ieuan Wyn JONES]; Scottish National Party or SNP [Alex SALMOND];
  Sinn Fein (Northern Ireland) [Gerry ADAMS]; Social Democratic and
  Labor Party or SDLP (Northern Ireland) [Mark DURKAN]; Ulster
  Unionist Party (Northern Ireland) [Sir Reg EMPEY]

United States
  Democratic Party [Howard DEAN]; Green Party;
  Libertarian Party [William (Bill) REDPATH]; Republican Party [Robert
  M. (Mike) DUNCAN]

Uruguay
  Broad Front (Frente Amplio) - formerly known as the
  Progressive Encounter/Broad Front Coalition or EP-FA [Jorge
  BROVETTO] (a broad governing coalition that includes Movement of the
  Popular Participation or MPP [Jose MUJICA], New Space Party (Nuevo
  Espacio) [Rafael MICHELINI], Progressive Alliance (Alianza
  Progresista) [Rodolfo NIN NOVOA], Socialist Party [Eduardo
  FERNANDEZ], the Communist Party [Marina ARISMENDI], Uruguayan
  Assembly (Asamblea Uruguay) [Danilo ASTORI], and Vertiente
  Artiguista [Mariano ARANA]); Colorado Party (Foro Batllista) [Julio
  Maria SANGUINETTI]; National Party or Blanco [Luis Alberto LACALLE
  and Jorge LARRANAGA]

Uzbekistan
  Adolat (Justice) Social Democratic Party [Dilorom
  TASHMUHAMMEDOVA]; Democratic National Rebirth Party (Milly
  Tiklanish) or MTP [Hurshid DOSMUHAMMEDOV]; Fidokorlar National
  Democratic Party (Self-Sacrificers) [Ahtam TURSUNOV]; Liberal
  Democratic Party of Uzbekistan or LDPU [Adham SHADMANOV; People's
  Democratic Party or NDP (formerly Communist Party) [Asliddin
  RUSTAMOV]

Vanuatu
  Greens Confederation or GC [Moana CARCASSES]; Jon Frum
  Movement or JF [Song KEASPAI]; Melanesian Progressive Party or MPP
  [Barak SOPE]; Nagriamel movement or NAG [Havo MOLI]; Namangi Aute or
  NA [Paul TELUKLUK]; National United Party or NUP [Ham LINI];
  People's Action Party or PAP [Peter VUTA]; People's Progressive
  Party or PPP [Sato KILMAN]; Shepherds Alliance Party [leader NA];
  Union of Moderate Parties or UMP [Serge VOHOR]; Vanuatu Family First
  Party or VFFP [Eta RORI]; Vanuatu Labor Party or VLP [Joshua
  KALSAKAU]; Vanuatu National Party or VNP [Issac HAMARILIU];
  Vanua'aku Pati (Our Land Party) or VP [Edward NATAPEI]; Vanuatu
  Republican Party or VRP [Maxime Carlot KORMAN]; Vanuatu Republican
  Farmers Party or VPRFP [Jean RAVOU]

Venezuela
  A New Time or UNT [Manuel ROSALES]; Christian Democrats or
  COPEI [Cesar PEREZ Vivas]; Communist Party of Venezuela or PCV
  [Jeronimo CARRERA]; Democratic Action or AD [Henry RAMOS Allup];
  Fatherland for All or PPT [Jose ALBORNOZ]; Justice First [Julio
  BORGES]; Movement Toward Socialism or MAS [Hector MUJICA]; United
  Socialist Party of Venezuela or PSUV [Hugo CHAVEZ]; Venezuela
  Project or PV [Henrique SALAS Romer]; We Can or PODEMOS [Ismael
  GARCIA]

Vietnam
  Communist Party of Vietnam or CPV [Nong Duc MANH]; other
  parties proscribed

Virgin Islands
  Democratic Party [Arturo WATLINGTON]; Independent
  Citizens' Movement or ICM [Usie RICHARDS]; Republican Party [Gary
  SPRAUVE]

Wallis and Futuna
  Lua Kae Tahi (Giscardians); Mouvement des Radicaux
  de Gauche or MRG; Rally for the Republic or RPR (UMP) [Clovis
  LOGOLOGOFOLAU]; Socialist Party or PS; Taumu'a Lelei [Soane Muni
  UHILA]; Union Populaire Locale or UPL [Falakiko GATA]; Union Pour la
  Democratie Francaise or UDF

Yemen
  General People's Congress or GPC [Abdul-Kader BAJAMMAL];
  Islamic Reform Grouping or Islah [Mohammed Abdullah AL-YADOUMI
  (acting)]; Nasserite Unionist Party [Abdal Malik al-MAKHLAFI];
  National Arab Socialist Ba'th Party [Dr. Qasim SALAM]; Yemeni
  Socialist Party or YSP [Ali Salih MUQBIL]; note - there are at least
  seven more active political parties

Zambia
  All Peoples Congress Party [Winright NGONDO]; Forum for
  Democracy and Development or FDD [Edith NAWAKWI]; Heritage Party or
  HP [Godfrey MIYANDA]; Liberal Progressive Front or LPF [Roger
  CHONGWE]; Movement for Multiparty Democracy or MMD [Levy MWANAWASA];
  National Democratic Focus or NDF; Patriotic Front or PF [Michael
  SATA]; Party of Unity for Democracy and Development or PUDD [Dan
  PULE]; Reform Party [Nevers MUMBA]; United Democratic Alliance or
  UDA; United Liberal Party or ULP [Sakwiba SIKOTA]; United National
  Independence Party or UNIP [Tilyenji KAUNDA]; United Party for
  National Development or UPND [Hakainde HICHILEMA]; Zambia Democratic
  Congress or ZADECO [Langton SICHONE]; Zambian Republican Party or
  ZRP [Benjamin MWILA]

Zimbabwe
  African National Party or ANP [Egypt DZINEMUNHENZVA];
  Movement for Democratic Change or MDC [Morgan TSVANGIRAI,
  anti-Senate faction; Arthur MUTAMBARA, pro-Senate faction]; Peace
  Action is Freedom for All or PAFA; United Parties [Abel MUZOREWA];
  United People's Party or UPP [Daniel SHUMBA]; Zimbabwe African
  National Union-Ndonga or ZANU-Ndonga [Wilson KUMBULA]; Zimbabwe
  African National Union-Patriotic Front or ZANU-PF [Robert Gabriel
  MUGABE]; Zimbabwe African Peoples Union or ZAPU [Agrippa MADLELA];
  Zimbabwe Youth in Alliance or ZIYA

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2119  Population


Afghanistan
  32,738,376 (July 2008 est.)

Akrotiri
  approximately 15,700 live on the Sovereign Base Areas of
  Akrotiri and Dhekelia including 7,700 Cypriots, 3,600 Service and
  UK-based contract personnel, and 4,400 dependents

Albania
  3,619,778 (July 2008 est.)

Algeria
  33,769,668 (July 2008 est.)

American Samoa
  64,827 (July 2008 est.)

Andorra
  82,627 (July 2008 est.)

Angola
  12,531,357 (July 2008 est.)

Anguilla
  14,108 (July 2008 est.)

Antarctica
  no indigenous inhabitants, but there are both permanent
  and summer-only staffed research stations
  note: 28 nations, all signatory to the Antarctic Treaty, operate
  through their National Antarctic Program a number of seasonal-only
  (summer) and year-round research stations on the continent and its
  nearby islands south of 60 degrees south latitude (the region
  covered by the Antarctic Treaty); these stations' population of
  persons doing and supporting science or engaged in the management
  and protection of the Antarctic region varies from approximately
  4,000 in summer to 1,000 in winter; in addition, approximately 1,000
  personnel, including ship's crew and scientists doing onboard
  research, are present in the waters of the treaty region; peak
  summer (December-February) population - 4,219 total; Argentina 667,
  Australia 200, Brazil 40, Bulgaria 15, Chile 237, China 70, Czech
  Republic 20, Ecuador 26, Finland 20, France 100, France and Italy
  jointly 45, Germany 90, India 65, Italy 90, Japan 125, South Korea
  70, NZ 85, Norway 44, Peru 28, Poland 40, Romania 3, Russia 429,
  South Africa 80, Spain 28, Sweden 20, Ukraine 24, UK 205, US 1,293,
  Uruguay 60 (2007-2008); winter (June-August) station population -
  1,088 total; Argentina 176, Australia 62, Brazil 12, Chile 96, China
  29, France 26, France and Italy jointly 13, Germany 9, India 25,
  Italy 2, Japan 40, South Korea 18, NZ 10, Norway 7, Poland 12,
  Russia 148, South Africa 10, Ukraine 12, UK 37, US 337, Uruguay 9
  (2008); research stations operated within the Antarctic Treaty area
  (south of 60 degrees south latitude) by National Antarctic Programs:
  year-round stations - 38 total; Argentina 6, Australia 3, Brazil 1,
  Chile 4, China 2, France 1, France and Italy jointly 1, Germany 1,
  India 1, Japan 1, South Korea 1, NZ 1, Norway 1, Poland 1, Russia 5,
  South Africa 1, Ukraine 1, UK 2, US 3, Uruguay 1 (2008); a range of
  seasonal-only (summer) stations, camps, and refuges - Argentina,
  Australia, Bulgaria, Brazil, Chile, China, Czech Republic, Ecuador,
  Finland, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, South Korea, New
  Zealand, Norway, Peru, Poland, Romania, Russia, Spain, Sweden,
  Ukraine, UK, US, and Uruguay (2007-2008); in addition, during the
  austral summer some nations have numerous occupied locations such as
  tent camps, summer-long temporary facilities, and mobile traverses
  in support of research (March 2008 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  84,522 (July 2008 est.)

Argentina
  40.482 million (July 2008 est.)

Armenia
  2,968,586 (July 2008 est.)

Aruba
  101,541
  note: estimate based on a revision of the base population,
  fertility, and mortality numbers, as well as a revision of 1985-1999
  migration estimates from outmigration to inmigration, which is
  assumed to continue into the future; the new results are consistent
  with the 2000 census (July 2008 est.)

Ashmore and Cartier Islands
  no indigenous inhabitants
  note: Indonesian fishermen are allowed access to the lagoon and
  fresh water at Ashmore Reef's West Island; access to East and Middle
  Islands is by permit only

Australia
  21,007,310 (July 2008 est.)

Austria
  8,205,533 (July 2008 est.)

Azerbaijan
  8,177,717 (July 2008 est.)

Bahamas, The
  307,451
  note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
  population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2008 est.)

Bahrain
  718,306
  note: includes 235,108 non-nationals (July 2008 est.)

Bangladesh
  153,546,896 (July 2008 est.)

Barbados
  281,968 (July 2008 est.)

Belarus
  9,685,768 (July 2008 est.)

Belgium
  10,403,951 (July 2008 est.)

Belize
  301,270 (July 2008 est.)

Benin
  8,532,547
  note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
  population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2008 est.)

Bermuda
  66,536 (July 2008 est.)

Bhutan
  682,321
  note: the Factbook population estimate is consistent with the first
  modern census of Bhutan, conducted in 2005; previous Factbook
  population estimates for this country, which were on the order of
  three times the total population reported here, were based on
  Bhutanese government publications that did not include the census
  (July 2008 est.)

Bolivia
  9,247,816 (July 2008 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  4,590,310 (July 2008 est.)

Botswana
  1,842,323
  note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
  population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2008 est.)

Bouvet Island
  uninhabited

Brazil
  196,342,592
  note: Brazil conducted a census in August 2000, which reported a
  population of 169,799,170; that figure was about 3.3% lower than
  projections by the US Census Bureau, and is close to the implied
  underenumeration of 4.6% for the 1991 census; estimates for this
  country explicitly take into account the effects of excess mortality
  due to AIDS; this can result in lower life expectancy, higher infant
  mortality, higher death rates, lower population growth rates, and
  changes in the distribution of population by age and sex than would
  otherwise be expected (July 2008 est.)

British Indian Ocean Territory
  no indigenous inhabitants
  note: approximately 1,200 former agricultural workers resident in
  the Chagos Archipelago, often referred to as Chagossians or Ilois,
  were relocated to Mauritius and the Seychelles in the 1960s and
  1970s; in November 2000 they were granted the right of return by a
  British High Court ruling, though no timetable has been set; in
  November 2004, approximately 4,000 UK and US military personnel and
  civilian contractors were living on the island of Diego Garcia

British Virgin Islands
  24,041 (July 2008 est.)

Brunei
  381,371 (July 2008 est.)

Bulgaria
  7,262,675 (July 2008 est.)

Burkina Faso
  15,264,735
  note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
  population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2008 est.)

Burma
  47,758,180
  note: estimates for this country take into account the effects of
  excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower life
  expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
  population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2008 est.)

Burundi
  8,691,005
  note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
  population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2008 est.)

Cambodia
  14,241,640
  note: estimates for this country take into account the effects of
  excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower life
  expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
  population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2008 est.)

Cameroon
  18,467,692
  note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
  population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2008 est.)

Canada
  33,212,696 (July 2008 est.)

Cape Verde
  426,998 (July 2008 est.)

Cayman Islands
  47,862
  note: most of the population lives on Grand Cayman (July 2008 est.)

Central African Republic
  4,444,330
  note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
  population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2008 est.)

Chad
  10,111,337 (July 2008 est.)

Chile
  16,454,143 (July 2008 est.)

China
  1,330,044,544 (July 2008 est.)

Christmas Island
  1,402 (July 2007 est.)

Clipperton Island
  uninhabited

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  596 (July 2007 est.)

Colombia
  45,013,672 (July 2008 est.)

Comoros
  731,775 (July 2008 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  66,514,504
  note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
  population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2008 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  3,903,318
  note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
  population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2008 est.)

Cook Islands
  12,271 (July 2008 est.)

Coral Sea Islands
  no indigenous inhabitants
  note: there is a staff of three to four at the meteorological
  station on Willis Island (July 2007 est.)

Costa Rica
  4,195,914 (July 2008 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  20,179,602
  note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
  population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2008 est.)

Croatia
  4,491,543 (July 2008 est.)

Cuba
  11,423,952 (July 2008 est.)

Cyprus
  792,604 (July 2008 est.)

Czech Republic
  10,220,911 (July 2008 est.)

Denmark
  5,484,723 (July 2008 est.)

Dhekelia
  approximately 15,700 live on the Sovereign Base Areas of
  Akrotiri and Dhekelia including 7,700 Cypriots, 3,600 Service and UK
  Based Contract personnel, and 4,400 dependents

Djibouti
  506,221 (July 2008 est.)

Dominica
  72,514 (July 2008 est.)

Dominican Republic
  9,507,133 (July 2008 est.)

Ecuador
  13,927,650 (July 2008 est.)

Egypt
  81,713,520 (July 2008 est.)

El Salvador
  7,066,403 (July 2008 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  616,459 (July 2008 est.)

Eritrea
  5,502,026 (July 2008 est.)

Estonia
  1,307,605 (July 2008 est.)

Ethiopia
  82,544,840
  note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
  population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2008 est.)

European Union
  491,018,683 (July 2008 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  3,140 (July 2008 est.)

Faroe Islands
  48,668 (July 2008 est.)

Fiji
  931,741 (July 2008 est.)

Finland
  5,244,749 (July 2008 est.)

France
  total: 64,057,792
  note: 62,150,775 in metropolitan France (July 2008 est.)

French Polynesia
  283,019 (July 2008 est.)

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  no indigenous inhabitants
  Ile Amsterdam (Ile Amsterdam et Ile Saint-Paul): has no permanent
  residents but has a meteorological station
  Ile Saint-Paul (Ile Amsterdam et Ile Saint-Paul): is uninhabited but
  is frequently visited by fishermen and has a scientific research
  cabin for short stays
  Iles Crozet: are uninhabited except for 18 to 30 people staffing the
  Alfred Faure research station on Ile del la Possession
  Iles Kerguelen: 50 to 100 scientists are located at the main base at
  Port-aux-Francais on Ile Kerguelen
  Bassas da India (Iles Eparses): uninhabitable
  Europa Island, Glorioso Islands, Juan de Nova Island (Iles Eparses):
  a small French military garrison and a few meteorologists on each
  possession; visited by scientists
  Tromelin Island (Iles Eparses): uninhabited, except for visits by
  scientists

Gabon
  1,485,832
  note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
  population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2008 est.)

Gambia, The
  1,735,464 (July 2008 est.)

Gaza Strip
  1,500,202 (July 2008 est.)

Georgia
  4,630,841 (July 2008 est.)

Germany
  82,369,552 (July 2008 est.)

Ghana
  23,382,848
  note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
  population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2008 est.)

Gibraltar
  28,002 (July 2008 est.)

Greece
  10,722,816 (July 2008 est.)

Greenland
  57,564 (July 2008 est.)

Grenada
  90,343 (July 2008 est.)

Guam
  175,877 (July 2008 est.)

Guatemala
  13,002,206 (July 2008 est.)

Guernsey
  65,726 (July 2008 est.)

Guinea
  9,806,509 (July 2008 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  1,503,182 (July 2008 est.)

Guyana
  770,794
  note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
  population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2008 est.)

Haiti
  8,924,553
  note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
  population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2008 est.)

Heard Island and McDonald Islands
  uninhabited

Holy See (Vatican City)
  824 (July 2008 est.)

Honduras
  7,639,327
  note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
  population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2008 est.)

Hong Kong
  7,018,636 (July 2008 est.)

Hungary
  9,930,915 (July 2008 est.)

Iceland
  304,367 (July 2008 est.)

India
  1,147,995,904 (July 2008 est.)

Indonesia
  237,512,352 (July 2008 est.)

Iran
  65,875,224 (July 2008 est.)

Iraq
  28,221,180 (July 2008 est.)

Ireland
  4,156,119 (July 2008 est.)

Isle of Man
  76,220 (July 2008 est.)

Israel
  7,112,359
  note: includes about 187,000 Israeli settlers in the West Bank,
  about 20,000 in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights, and fewer than
  177,000 in East Jerusalem (July 2008 est.)

Italy
  58,145,320 (July 2008 est.)

Jamaica
  2,804,332 (July 2008 est.)

Jan Mayen
  no indigenous inhabitants
  note: personnel operate the Long Range Navigation (Loran-C) base and
  the weather and coastal services radio station

Japan
  127,288,416 (July 2008 est.)

Jersey
  91,533 (July 2008 est.)

Jordan
  6,198,677 (July 2008 est.)

Kazakhstan
  15,340,533 (July 2008 est.)

Kenya
  37,953,840
  note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
  population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2008 est.)

Kiribati
  110,356 (July 2008 est.)

Korea, North
  23,479,088 (July 2008 est.)

Korea, South
  48,379,392 (July 2008 est.)

Kosovo
  2,126,708 (2007 est.)

Kuwait
  2,596,799
  note: includes 1,291,354 non-nationals (July 2008 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  5,356,869 (July 2008 est.)

Laos
  6,677,534 (July 2008 est.)

Latvia
  2,245,423 (July 2008 est.)

Lebanon
  3,971,941 (July 2008 est.)

Lesotho
  2,128,180
  note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
  population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2008 est.)

Liberia
  3,334,587 (July 2008 est.)

Libya
  6,173,579
  note: includes 166,510 non-nationals (July 2008 est.)

Liechtenstein
  34,498 (July 2008 est.)

Lithuania
  3,565,205 (July 2008 est.)

Luxembourg
  486,006 (July 2008 est.)

Macau
  545,674 (July 2008 est.)

Macedonia
  2,061,315 (July 2008 est.)

Madagascar
  20,042,552 (July 2008 est.)

Malawi
  13,931,831
  note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
  population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2008 est.)

Malaysia
  25,274,132 (July 2008 est.)

Maldives
  385,925 (July 2008 est.)

Mali
  12,324,029 (July 2008 est.)

Malta
  403,532 (July 2008 est.)

Marshall Islands
  63,174 (July 2008 est.)

Mauritania
  3,364,940 (July 2008 est.)

Mauritius
  1,274,189 (July 2008 est.)

Mayotte
  216,306 (July 2008 est.)

Mexico
  109,955,400 (July 2008 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  107,665 (July 2008 est.)

Moldova
  4,324,450 (July 2008 est.)

Monaco
  32,796 (July 2008 est.)

Mongolia
  2,996,081 (July 2008 est.)

Montenegro
  678,177 (July 2008 est.)

Montserrat
  5,079
  note: an estimated 8,000 refugees left the island following the
  resumption of volcanic activity in July 1995; some have returned
  (July 2008 est.)

Morocco
  34,343,220 (July 2008 est.)

Mozambique
  21,284,700
  note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
  population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected; the 1997
  Mozambican census reported a population of 16,099,246 (July 2008
  est.)

Namibia
  2,088,669
  note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
  population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2008 est.)

Nauru
  13,770 (July 2008 est.)

Navassa Island
  uninhabited
  note: transient Haitian fishermen and others camp on the island

Nepal
  29,519,114 (July 2008 est.)

Netherlands
  16,645,313 (July 2008 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  225,369 (July 2008 est.)

New Caledonia
  224,824 (July 2008 est.)

New Zealand
  4,173,460 (July 2008 est.)

Nicaragua
  5,785,846 (July 2008 est.)

Niger
  13,272,679 (July 2008 est.)

Nigeria
  146,255,312
  note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
  population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2008 est.)

Niue
  1,444 (July 2008 est.)

Norfolk Island
  2,128 (July 2008 est.)

Northern Mariana Islands
  86,616 (July 2008 est.)

Norway
  4,644,457 (July 2008 est.)

Oman
  3,311,640
  note: includes 577,293 non-nationals (July 2008 est.)

Pakistan
  172,800,048 (July 2008 est.)

Palau
  21,093 (July 2008 est.)

Panama
  3,309,679 (July 2008 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  5,931,769 (July 2008 est.)

Paracel Islands
  no indigenous inhabitants
  note: there are scattered Chinese garrisons

Paraguay
  6,831,306 (July 2008 est.)

Peru
  29,180,900 (July 2008 est.)

Philippines
  96,061,680 (July 2008 est.)

Pitcairn Islands
  48 (July 2008 est.)

Poland
  38,500,696 (July 2008 est.)

Portugal
  10,676,910 (July 2008 est.)

Puerto Rico
  3,958,128 (July 2008 est.)

Qatar
  824,789 (July 2008 est.)

Romania
  22,246,862 (July 2008 est.)

Russia
  140,702,096 (July 2008 est.)

Rwanda
  10,186,063
  note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
  population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2008 est.)

Saint Barthelemy
  7,492 (July 2008 est.)

Saint Helena
  7,601
  note: only Saint Helena, Ascension, and Tristan da Cunha islands are
  inhabited (July 2008 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  39,817 (July 2008 est.)

Saint Lucia
  159,585 (July 2008 est.)

Saint Martin
  29,376 (July 2008 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  7,044 (July 2008 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  118,432 (July 2008 est.)

Samoa
  217,083
  note: prior estimates used official net migration data by sex, but a
  highly unusual pattern for 1993 lead to a significant imbalance in
  the sex ratios (more men and fewer women) and a seeming reduction in
  the female population; the revised total was calculated using a 1993
  number that was an average of the 1992 and 1994 migration figures
  (July 2008 est.)

San Marino
  29,973 (July 2008 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe
  206,178 (July 2008 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  28,146,656
  note: includes 5,576,076 non-nationals (July 2008 est.)

Senegal
  12,853,259 (July 2008 est.)

Serbia
  10,159,046
  note: all population data includes Kosovo (July 2008 est.)

Seychelles
  82,247 (July 2008 est.)

Sierra Leone
  6,294,774 (July 2008 est.)

Singapore
  4,608,167 (July 2008 est.)

Slovakia
  5,455,407 (July 2008 est.)

Slovenia
  2,007,711 (July 2008 est.)

Solomon Islands
  581,318 (July 2008 est.)

Somalia
  9,558,666
  note: this estimate was derived from an official census taken in
  1975 by the Somali Government; population counting in Somalia is
  complicated by the large number of nomads and by refugee movements
  in response to famine and clan warfare (July 2008 est.)

South Africa
  48,782,756
  note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
  population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2008 est.)

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  no indigenous
  inhabitants
  note: the small military garrison on South Georgia withdrew in March
  2001 replaced by a permanent group of scientists of the British
  Antarctic Survey, which also has a biological station on Bird
  Island; the South Sandwich Islands are uninhabited

Spain
  40,491,052 (July 2008 est.)

Spratly Islands
  no indigenous inhabitants
  note: there are scattered garrisons occupied by personnel of several
  claimant states

Sri Lanka
  21,128,772
  note: since the outbreak of hostilities between the government and
  armed Tamil separatists in the mid-1980s, several hundred thousand
  Tamil civilians have fled the island and more than 200,000 Tamils
  have sought refuge in the West (July 2008 est.)

Sudan
  40,218,456 (July 2008 est.)

Suriname
  475,996 (July 2008 est.)

Svalbard
  2,165 (July 2008 est.)

Swaziland
  1,128,814
  note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
  population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2008 est.)

Sweden
  9,045,389 (July 2008 est.)

Switzerland
  7,581,520 (July 2008 est.)

Syria
  19,747,586
  note: in addition, about 40,000 people live in the Israeli-occupied
  Golan Heights - 20,000 Arabs (18,000 Druze and 2,000 Alawites) and
  about 20,000 Israeli settlers (July 2008 est.)

Taiwan
  22,920,946 (July 2008 est.)

Tajikistan
  7,211,884 (July 2008 est.)

Tanzania
  40,213,160
  note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
  population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2008 est.)

Thailand
  65,493,296
  note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
  population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2008 est.)

Timor-Leste
  1,108,777
  note: other estimates range as low as 800,000 (July 2008 est.)

Togo
  5,858,673
  note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
  population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2008 est.)

Tokelau
  1,433 (July 2008 est.)

Tonga
  119,009 (July 2008 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  1,047,366 (July 2008 est.)

Tunisia
  10,383,577 (July 2008 est.)

Turkey
  71,892,808 (July 2008 est.)

Turkmenistan
  5,179,571 (July 2008 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  22,352 (July 2008 est.)

Tuvalu
  12,177 (July 2008 est.)

Uganda
  31,367,972
  note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
  population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2008 est.)

Ukraine
  45,994,288 (July 2008 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  4,621,399
  note: estimate is based on the results of the 2005 census that
  included a significantly higher estimate of net inmigration of
  non-citizens than previous estimates (July 2008 est.)

United Kingdom
  60,943,912 (July 2008 est.)

United States
  303,824,640 (July 2008 est.)

United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
  no indigenous
  inhabitants
  note: public entry is by special-use permit from US Fish and
  Wildlife Service only and generally restricted to scientists and
  educators; visited annually by US Fish and Wildlife Service
  Johnston Atoll: in previous years, an average of 1,100 US military
  and civilian contractor personnel were present; as of May 2005 all
  US government personnel had left the island
  Midway Islands: approximately 40 people make up the staff of US Fish
  and Wildlife Service and their services contractor living at the
  atoll
  Palmyra Atoll: four to 20 Nature Conservancy, US Fish and Wildlife
  staff, and researchers

Uruguay
  3,477,778 (July 2008 est.)

Uzbekistan
  27,345,026 (July 2008 est.)

Vanuatu
  215,446 (July 2008 est.)

Venezuela
  26,414,816 (July 2008 est.)

Vietnam
  86,116,560 (July 2008 est.)

Virgin Islands
  109,840 (July 2008 est.)

Wake Island
  no indigenous inhabitants
  note: since super typhoon IOKE, a small military contingent along
  with 75 contractor personnel have returned to the island to conduct
  clean-up and restore basic operations on the island (July 2008 est.)

Wallis and Futuna
  15,237 (July 2008 est.)

West Bank
  2,407,681
  note: in addition, there are about 187,000 Israeli settlers in the
  West Bank and fewer than 177,000 in East Jerusalem (July 2008 est.)

Western Sahara
  393,831
  note: estimate is based on projections by age, sex, fertility,
  mortality, and migration; fertility and mortality are based on data
  from neighboring countries (July 2008 est.)

World
  6,706,993,152 (July 2008 est.)

Yemen
  23,013,376 (July 2008 est.)

Zambia
  11,669,534
  note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
  population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2008 est.)

Zimbabwe
  11,350,111
  note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality, higher death rates, lower
  population growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2008 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2120  Ports and terminals


Afghanistan
  Kheyrabad, Shir Khan

Albania
  Durres, Sarande, Shengjin, Vlore

Algeria
  Algiers, Annaba, Arzew, Bejaia, Djendjene, Jijel,
  Mostaganem, Oran, Skikda

American Samoa
  Pago Pago

Angola
  Cabinda, Lobito, Luanda, Namibe

Anguilla
  Blowing Point, Road Bay

Antarctica
  there are no developed ports and harbors in Antarctica;
  most coastal stations have offshore anchorages, and supplies are
  transferred from ship to shore by small boats, barges, and
  helicopters; a few stations have a basic wharf facility; US coastal
  stations include McMurdo (77 51 S, 166 40 E), and Palmer (64 43 S,
  64 03 W); government use only except by permit (see Permit Office
  under "Legal System"); all ships at port are subject to inspection
  in accordance with Article 7, Antarctic Treaty; offshore anchorage
  is sparse and intermittent; relevant legal instruments and
  authorization procedures adopted by the states parties to the
  Antarctic Treaty regulating access to the Antarctic Treaty area, to
  all areas between 60 and 90 degrees of latitude south, have to be
  complied with (see "Legal System"); The Hydrographic Committee on
  Antarctica (HCA), a special hydrographic commission of International
  Hydrographic Organization (IHO), is responsible for hydrographic
  surveying and nautical charting matters in Antarctic Treaty area; it
  coordinates and facilitates provision of accurate and appropriate
  charts and other aids to navigation in support of safety of
  navigation in region; membership of HCA is open to any IHO Member
  State whose government has acceded to the Antarctic Treaty and which
  contributes resources and/or data to IHO Chart coverage of the area;
  members of HCA are Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Chile, China,
  Ecuador, France, Germany, Greece, India, Italy, NZ, Norway, Russia,
  South Africa, Spain, UK, and US (2007)

Antigua and Barbuda
  Saint John's

Arctic Ocean
  Churchill (Canada), Murmansk (Russia), Prudhoe Bay (US)

Argentina
  Arroyo Seco, Bahia Blanca, Buenos Aires, La Plata, Punta
  Colorada, Rosario, San Lorenzo-San Martin

Aruba
  Barcadera, Oranjestad, Sint Nicolaas

Ashmore and Cartier Islands
  none; offshore anchorage only

Atlantic Ocean
  Alexandria (Egypt), Algiers (Algeria), Antwerp
  (Belgium), Barcelona (Spain), Buenos Aires (Argentina), Casablanca
  (Morocco), Colon (Panama), Copenhagen (Denmark), Dakar (Senegal),
  Gdansk (Poland), Hamburg (Germany), Helsinki (Finland), Las Palmas
  (Canary Islands, Spain), Le Havre (France), Lisbon (Portugal),
  London (UK), Marseille (France), Montevideo (Uruguay), Montreal
  (Canada), Naples (Italy), New Orleans (US), New York (US), Oran
  (Algeria), Oslo (Norway), Peiraiefs or Piraeus (Greece), Rio de
  Janeiro (Brazil), Rotterdam (Netherlands), Saint Petersburg
  (Russia), Stockholm (Sweden)

Australia
  Brisbane, Dampier, Fremantle, Gladstone, Hay Point,
  Melbourne, Newcastle, Port Hedland, Port Kembla, Port Walcott, Sydney

Austria
  Enns, Krems, Linz, Vienna

Azerbaijan
  Baku (Baki)

Bahamas, The
  Freeport, Nassau, South Riding Point

Bahrain
  Mina' Salman, Sitrah

Bangladesh
  Chittagong, Mongla Port

Barbados
  Bridgetown

Belarus
  Mazyr

Belgium
  Antwerp, Gent, Liege, Zeebrugge

Belize
  Belize City, Big Creek

Benin
  Cotonou

Bermuda
  Hamilton, Saint George

Bolivia
  Puerto Aguirre (inland port on the Paraguay/Parana waterway
  at the Bolivia/Brazil border); Bolivia has free port privileges in
  maritime ports in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, and Paraguay

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  Bosanska Gradiska, Bosanski Brod, Bosanski
  Samac, and Brcko (all inland waterway ports on the Sava), Orasje

Bouvet Island
  none; offshore anchorage only

Brazil
  Guaiba, Ilha Grande, Paranagua, Rio Grande, Santos, Sao
  Sebastiao, Tubarao

British Indian Ocean Territory
  Diego Garcia

British Virgin Islands
  Road Town

Brunei
  Lumut, Muara, Seria

Bulgaria
  Burgas, Varna

Burma
  Moulmein, Rangoon, Sittwe

Burundi
  Bujumbura

Cambodia
  Phnom Penh, Kampong Saom (Sihanoukville)

Cameroon
  Douala, Limboh Terminal

Canada
  Fraser River Port, Halifax, Hamilton, Montreal, Port-Cartier,
  Quebec City, Saint John (New Brunswick), Sept-Isles, Vancouver

Cape Verde
  Porto Grande

Cayman Islands
  Cayman Brac, George Town

Central African Republic
  Bangui, Nola, Salo, Nzinga

Chile
  Coronel, Huasco, Lirquen, Puerto Ventanas, San Antonio, San
  Vicente, Valparaiso

China
  Dalian, Guangzhou, Ningbo, Qingdao, Qinhuangdao, Shanghai,
  Shenzhen, Tianjin

Christmas Island
  Flying Fish Cove

Clipperton Island
  none; offshore anchorage only

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  Port Refuge

Colombia
  Barranquilla, Buenaventura, Cartagena, Santa Marta, Turbo

Comoros
  Mayotte, Mutsamudu

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  Banana, Boma, Bukavu, Bumba, Goma,
  Kalemie, Kindu, Kinshasa, Kisangani, Matadi, Mbandaka

Congo, Republic of the
  Brazzaville, Djeno, Impfondo, Ouesso, Oyo,
  Pointe-Noire

Cook Islands
  Avatiu

Coral Sea Islands
  none; offshore anchorage only

Costa Rica
  Caldera, Puerto Limon

Cote d'Ivoire
  Abidjan, Espoir, San-Pedro

Croatia
  Omisalj, Ploce, Rijeka, Sibenik, Vukovar (on Danube)

Cuba
  Cienfuegos, Havana, Matanzas

Cyprus
  area under government control: Larnaca, Limassol, Vasilikos;
  area administered by Turkish Cypriots: Famagusta, Kyrenia

Czech Republic
  Decin, Prague, Usti nad Labem

Denmark
  Aalborg, Aarhus, Copenhagen, Ensted, Esbjerg, Fredericia,
  Kalundborg

Djibouti
  Djibouti

Dominica
  Portsmouth, Roseau

Dominican Republic
  Boca Chica, Caucedo, Puerto Plata, Rio Haina,
  Santo Domingo

Ecuador
  Esmeraldas, Guayaquil, Manta, Puerto Bolivar

Egypt
  Ayn Sukhnah, Alexandria, Damietta, El Dekheila, Sidi Kurayr,
  Suez

El Salvador
  Acajutla, Puerto Cutuco

Equatorial Guinea
  Bata, Malabo

Eritrea
  Assab, Massawa

Estonia
  Kuivastu, Kunda, Muuga, Tallinn, Virtsu

Ethiopia
  Ethiopia is landlocked and uses ports of Djibouti in
  Djibouti and Berbera in Somalia

European Union
  Antwerp (Belgium), Barcelona (Spain), Braila
  (Romania), Bremen (Germany), Burgas (Bulgaria), Constanta (Romania),
  Copenhagen (Denmark), Galati (Romania), Gdansk (Poland), Hamburg
  (Germany), Helsinki (Finland), Las Palmas (Canary Islands, Spain),
  Le Havre (France), Lisbon (Portugal), London (UK), Marseille
  (France), Naples (Italy), Peiraiefs or Piraeus (Greece), Riga
  (Latvia), Rotterdam (Netherlands), Stockholm (Sweden), Talinn
  (Estonia), Tulcea (Romania), Varna (Bulgaria)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  Stanley

Faroe Islands
  Torshavn, Vagur

Fiji
  Lautoka, Suva

Finland
  Hamina, Helsinki, Kokkola, Kotka, Naantali, Pori, Raahe,
  Rauma, Turku

France
  Bordeaux, Calais, Dunkerque, Le Havre, Marseille, Nantes,
  Paris, Rouen, Strasbourg

French Polynesia
  Papeete

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  none; offshore anchorage only

Gabon
  Gamba, Libreville, Lucinda, Port-Gentil

Gambia, The
  Banjul

Gaza Strip
  Gaza

Georgia
  Bat'umi, P'ot'i

Germany
  Bremen, Bremerhaven, Duisburg, Hamburg, Karlsruhe, Lubeck,
  Rostock, Wilhemshaven

Ghana
  Tema

Gibraltar
  Gibraltar

Greece
  Agioitheodoroi, Aspropyrgos, Pachi, Piraeus, Thessaloniki

Greenland
  Sisimiut

Grenada
  Saint George's

Guam
  Apra Harbor

Guatemala
  Puerto Quetzal, Santo Tomas de Castilla

Guernsey
  Saint Peter Port, Saint Sampson

Guinea
  Conakry, Kamsar

Guinea-Bissau
  Bissau, Buba, Cacheu, Farim

Guyana
  Georgetown

Haiti
  Cap-Haitien

Heard Island and McDonald Islands
  none; offshore anchorage only

Honduras
  La Ceiba, Puerto Cortes, San Lorenzo, Tela

Hong Kong
  Hong Kong

Hungary
  Budapest, Dunaujvaros, Gyor-Gonyu, Csepel, Baja, Mohacs
  (2003)

Iceland
  Grundartangi, Hafnarfjordur, Reykjavik

India
  Chennai, Haldia, Jawaharal Nehru, Kandla, Kolkata (Calcutta),
  Mormugao, Mumbai (Bombay), New Mangalore, Vishakhapatnam

Indian Ocean
  Chennai (Madras; India), Colombo (Sri Lanka), Durban
  (South Africa), Jakarta (Indonesia), Kolkata (Calcutta; India)
  Melbourne (Australia), Mumbai (Bombay; India), Richards Bay (South
  Africa)

Indonesia
  Banjarmasin, Belawan, Ciwandan, Kotabaru, Krueg Geukueh,
  Palembang, Panjang, Sungai Pakning, Tanjung Perak, Tanjung Priok

Iran
  Assaluyeh, Bandar Abbas, Bandar-e-Eman Khomeyni

Iraq
  Al Basrah, Khawr az Zubayr, Umm Qasr

Ireland
  Cork, Dublin, Shannon Foynes

Isle of Man
  Douglas, Ramsey

Israel
  Ashdod, Elat (Eilat), Hadera, Haifa

Italy
  Augusta, Genoa, Livorno, Ravenna, Sarroch, Taranto, Trieste,
  Venice

Jamaica
  Kingston, Port Esquivel, Port Kaiser, Port Rhoades, Rocky
  Point

Jan Mayen
  none; offshore anchorage only

Japan
  Chiba, Kawasaki, Kobe, Mizushima, Moji, Nagoya, Osaka, Tokyo,
  Tomakomai, Yohohama

Jersey
  Gorey, Saint Aubin, Saint Helier

Jordan
  Al 'Aqabah

Kazakhstan
  Aqtau (Shevchenko), Atyrau (Gur'yev), Oskemen
  (Ust-Kamenogorsk), Pavlodar, Semey (Semipalatinsk)

Kenya
  Mombasa

Kiribati
  Betio

Korea, North
  Ch'ongjin, Haeju, Hungnam (Hamhung), Kimch'aek, Kosong,
  Najin, Namp'o, Sinuiju, Songnim, Sonbong (formerly Unggi), Ungsang,
  Wonsan

Korea, South
  Inch'on, P'ohang, Pusan, Ulsan

Kuwait
  Ash Shu'aybah, Ash Shuwaykh, Az Zawr (Mina' Sa'ud), Mina'
  'Abd Allah, Mina' al Ahmadi

Kyrgyzstan
  Balykchy (Ysyk-Kol or Rybach'ye)

Latvia
  Riga, Ventspils

Lebanon
  Beirut, Tripoli

Liberia
  Buchanan, Monrovia

Libya
  As Sidrah, Az Zuwaytinah, Marsa al Burayqah, Ra's Lanuf,
  Tripoli, Zawiyah

Lithuania
  Klaipeda

Luxembourg
  Mertert

Macau
  Macau

Madagascar
  Antsiranana, Mahajanga, Toamasina, Toliara

Malawi
  Chipoka, Monkey Bay, Nkhata Bay, Nkhotakota, Chilumba

Malaysia
  Bintulu, Johor Bahru, Kuantan, Labuan, George Town
  (Penang), Port Kelang, Tanjung Pelepas

Maldives
  Male

Mali
  Koulikoro

Malta
  Marsaxlokk (Malta Freeport), Valletta

Marshall Islands
  Majuro

Mauritania
  Nouadhibou, Nouakchott

Mauritius
  Port Louis

Mayotte
  Dzaoudzi

Mexico
  Altamira, Coatzacoalcos, Manzanillo, Morro Redondo, Salina
  Cruz, Tampico, Veracruz

Micronesia, Federated States of
  Tomil Harbor

Monaco
  Monaco

Montenegro
  Bar

Montserrat
  Little Bay, Plymouth

Morocco
  Agadir, Casablanca, Mohammedia, Safi

Mozambique
  Beira, Maputo, Nacala

Namibia
  Luderitz, Walvis Bay

Nauru
  Nauru

Navassa Island
  none; offshore anchorage only

Netherlands
  Amsterdam, IJmuiden, Rotterdam, Terneuzen, Vlissingen

Netherlands Antilles
  Bopec Terminal, Willemstad

New Caledonia
  Noumea

New Zealand
  Auckland, Lyttelton, Marsden Point, Tauranga,
  Wellington, Whangarei

Nicaragua
  Bluefields, Corinto, El Bluff

Nigeria
  Bonny Inshore Terminal, Calabar, Lagos

Niue
  none; offshore anchorage only

Norfolk Island
  none; loading jetties at Kingston and Cascade

Northern Mariana Islands
  Saipan, Tinian

Norway
  Bergen, Borg Havn, Haugesund, Maaloy, Mongstad, Narvik, Oslo,
  Sture

Oman
  Mina' Qabus, Salalah

Pacific Ocean
  Bangkok (Thailand), Hong Kong (China), Kao-hsiung
  (Taiwan), Los Angeles (US), Manila (Philippines), Pusan (South
  Korea), San Francisco (US), Seattle (US), Shanghai (China),
  Singapore, Sydney (Australia), Vladivostok (Russia), Wellington
  (NZ), Yokohama (Japan)

Pakistan
  Karachi, Port Muhammad Bin Qasim

Palau
  Koror

Panama
  Balboa, Colon, Cristobal

Papua New Guinea
  Kimbe, Lae, Madang, Rabaul, Wewak

Paracel Islands
  small Chinese port facilities on Woody Island and
  Duncan Island being expanded

Paraguay
  Asuncion, Villeta, San Antonio, Encarnacion

Peru
  Callao, Iquitos, Matarani, Paita, Pucallpa, Yurimaguas; note -
  Iquitos, Pucallpa, and Yurimaguas are on the upper reaches of the
  Amazon and its tributaries

Philippines
  Cagayan de Oro, Cebu, Davao, Liman, Manila, Nasipit
  Harbor

Pitcairn Islands
  Adamstown (on Bounty Bay)

Poland
  Gdansk, Gdynia, Swinoujscie, Szczecin

Portugal
  Leixoes, Lisbon, Setubal, Sines

Puerto Rico
  Guayanilla, Mayaguez, San Juan

Qatar
  Doha, Ra's Laffan

Romania
  Braila, Constanta, Galati, Tulcea

Russia
  Azov, Kaliningrad, Kavkaz, Nakhodka, Novorossiysk, Primorsk,
  Saint Petersburg, Vostochnyy

Rwanda
  Cyangugu, Gisenyi, Kibuye

Saint Helena
  Saint Helena: Jamestown
  Ascension Island: Georgetown
  Tristan da Cunha: Calshot Harbor

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  Basseterre

Saint Lucia
  Castries, Cul-de-Sac, Vieux-Fort

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  Saint-Pierre

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  Kingstown

Samoa
  Apia

Sao Tome and Principe
  Sao Tome

Saudi Arabia
  Ad Dammam, Al Jubayl, Jiddah, Yanbu' al Sinaiyah

Senegal
  Dakar

Seychelles
  Victoria

Sierra Leone
  Freetown, Pepel, Sherbro Islands

Singapore
  Singapore

Slovakia
  Bratislava, Komarno

Slovenia
  Koper

Solomon Islands
  Honiara, Malloco Bay, Viru Harbor

Somalia
  Berbera, Kismaayo

South Africa
  Cape Town, Durban, Port Elizabeth, Richards Bay,
  Saldanha Bay

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  Grytviken

Southern Ocean
  McMurdo, Palmer, and offshore anchorages in Antarctica
  note: few ports or harbors exist on southern side of Southern Ocean;
  ice conditions limit use of most to short periods in midsummer; even
  then some cannot be entered without icebreaker escort; most
  Antarctic ports are operated by government research stations and,
  except in an emergency, are not open to commercial or private
  vessels; vessels in any port south of 60 degrees south are subject
  to inspection by observers under Article 7 of the Antarctic Treaty;
  The Hydrographic Committee on Antarctica (HCA), a special
  hydrographic commission of International Hydrographic Organization
  (IHO), is responsible for hydrographic surveying and nautical
  charting matters in Antarctic Treaty area; it coordinates and
  facilitates provision of accurate and appropriate charts and other
  aids to navigation in support of safety of navigation in region;
  membership of HCA is open to any IHO Member State whose government
  has acceded to the Antarctic Treaty and which contributes resources
  and/or data to IHO Chart coverage of the area; members of HCA are
  Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Chile, China, Ecuador, France,
  Germany, Greece, India, Italy, NZ, Norway, Russia, South Africa,
  Spain, UK, and US (2007)

Spain
  Algeciras, Barcelona, Bilbao, Cartagena, Huelva, Tarragona,
  Valencia

Spratly Islands
  none; offshore anchorage only

Sri Lanka
  Colombo

Sudan
  Port Sudan

Suriname
  Paramaribo, Wageningen

Svalbard
  Barentsburg, Longyearbyen, Ny-Alesund, Pyramiden

Sweden
  Brofjorden, Goteborg, Helsingborg, Lulea, Malmo, Stenungsund,
  Stockholm, Trelleborg, Visby

Switzerland
  Basel

Syria
  Latakia, Tartus

Taiwan
  Chilung (Keelung), Kaohsiung, Taichung

Tanzania
  Dar es Salaam

Thailand
  Bangkok, Laem Chabang, Prachuap Port, Si Racha

Timor-Leste
  Dili

Togo
  Kpeme, Lome

Tokelau
  none; offshore anchorage only

Tonga
  Nuku'alofa

Trinidad and Tobago
  Point Fortin, Point Lisas, Port-of-Spain

Tunisia
  Bizerte, Gabes, La Goulette, Rades, Sfax, Skhira

Turkey
  Aliaga, Diliskelesi, Izmir, Kocaeli (Izmit), Mercin Limani,
  Nemrut Limani

Turkmenistan
  Turkmenbasy

Turks and Caicos Islands
  Grand Turk, Providenciales

Tuvalu
  Funafuti

Uganda
  Entebbe, Jinja, Port Bell

Ukraine
  Feodosiya, Kerch, Kherson, Mariupol', Mykolayiv, Odesa,
  Yuzhnyy

United Arab Emirates
  Mina' Zayid (Abu Dhabi), Al Fujayrah, Mina'
  Jabal 'Ali (Dubai), Mina' Rashid (Dubai), Mina' Saqr (Ra's al
  Khaymah), Khawr Fakkan (Sharjah)

United Kingdom
  Dover, Felixstowe, Immingham, Liverpool, London,
  Southampton, Teesport (England), Forth Ports, Hound Point
  (Scotland), Milford Haven (Wales)

United States
  Corpus Christi, Duluth, Hampton Roads, Houston, Long
  Beach, Los Angeles, New York, Philadelphia, Tampa, Texas City

United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
  Baker, Howland, and
  Jarvis Islands, and Kingman Reef: none; offshore anchorage only
  Johnston Atoll: Johnston Island
  Midway Islands: Sand Island
  Palmyra Atoll: West Lagoon

Uruguay
  Montevideo

Uzbekistan
  Termiz (Amu Darya)

Vanuatu
  Forari, Port-Vila, Santo (Espiritu Santo)

Venezuela
  La Guaira, Maracaibo, Puerto Cabello, Punta Cardon

Vietnam
  Da Nang, Hai Phong, Ho Chi Minh City

Virgin Islands
  Charlotte Amalie, Limetree Bay

Wake Island
  none; two offshore anchorages for large ships

Wallis and Futuna
  Leava, Mata-Utu

Western Sahara
  Ad Dakhla, Cabo Bojador, Laayoune (El Aaiun)

World
  top ten container ports (TEUs): Singapore - 24,792,400; Hong
  Kong - 23,539,000; Shanghai - 21,710,000; Shenzhen (China) -
  18,468,890; Busan (South Korea) - 12,030,000; Kaohsiung (Taiwan) -
  9,774,670; - Rotterdam - 9,603,000; Dubai (UAE) - 8,923,465; Hamburg
  - 8,861,545; Los Angeles - 8,469,853 (2006)

Yemen
  Aden, Hudaydah, Mukalla

Zambia
  Mpulungu

Zimbabwe
  Binga, Kariba

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2121  Railways (km)


Albania
  total: 447 km
  standard gauge: 447 km 1.435-m gauge (2006)

Algeria
  total: 3,973 km
  standard gauge: 2,888 km 1.435-m gauge (283 km electrified)
  narrow gauge: 1,085 km 1.055-m gauge (2006)

Angola
  total: 2,761 km
  narrow gauge: 2,638 km 1.067-m gauge; 123 km 0.600-m gauge (2006)

Argentina
  total: 31,902 km
  broad gauge: 20,858 km 1.676-m gauge (141 km electrified)
  standard gauge: 2,885 km 1.435-m gauge (26 km electrified)
  narrow gauge: 7,922 km 1.000-m gauge; 237 km 0.750-m gauge (2006)

Armenia
  total: 839 km
  broad gauge: 839 km 1.520-m gauge (828 km electrified)
  note: some lines are out of service (2006)

Australia
  total: 38,550 km
  broad gauge: 3,727 km 1.600-m gauge
  standard gauge: 20,519 km 1.435-m gauge (1,877 km electrified)
  narrow gauge: 14,074 km 1.067-m gauge (2,453 km electrified)
  dual gauge: 230 km dual gauge (2006)

Austria
  total: 6,383 km
  standard gauge: 5,924 km 1.435-m gauge (3,772 km electrified)
  narrow gauge: 371 km 1.000-m gauge; 88 km 0.760-m gauge (25 km
  electrified) (2006)

Azerbaijan
  total: 2,122 km
  broad gauge: 2,122 km 1.520-m gauge (1,278 km electrified) (2006)

Bangladesh
  total: 2,768 km
  broad gauge: 946 km 1.676-m gauge
  narrow gauge: 1,822 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)

Belarus
  total: 5,512 km
  broad gauge: 5,497 km 1.520-m gauge (874 km electrified)
  standard gauge: 15 km 1.435 m (2006)

Belgium
  total: 3,536 km
  standard gauge: 3,536 km 1.435-m gauge (2,950 km electrified) (2006)

Benin
  total: 758 km
  narrow gauge: 758 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)

Bolivia
  total: 3,504 km
  narrow gauge: 3,504 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  total: 608 km
  standard gauge: 608 km 1.435-m gauge (2006)

Botswana
  total: 888 km
  narrow gauge: 888 km 1.067-m gauge (2006)

Brazil
  total: 29,295 km
  broad gauge: 4,932 km 1.600-m gauge (939 km electrified)
  standard gauge: 194 km 1.440-m gauge
  narrow gauge: 23,773 km 1.000-m gauge (581 km electrified)
  dual gauge: 396 km 1.000 m and 1.600-m gauges (three rails) (78 km
  electrified) (2006)

Bulgaria
  total: 4,294 km
  standard gauge: 4,049 km 1.435-m gauge (2,710 km electrified)
  narrow gauge: 245 km 0.760-m gauge (2006)

Burkina Faso
  total: 622 km
  narrow gauge: 622 km 1.000-m gauge
  note: another 660 km of this railway extends into Cote D'Ivoire
  (2006)

Burma
  total: 3,955 km
  narrow gauge: 3,955 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)

Cambodia
  total: 602 km
  narrow gauge: 602 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)

Cameroon
  total: 987 km
  narrow gauge: 987 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)

Canada
  total: 48,068 km
  standard gauge: 48,068 km 1.435-m gauge (2006)

Chile
  total: 6,585 km
  broad gauge: 2,831 km 1.676-m gauge (1,317 km electrified)
  narrow gauge: 3,754 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)

China
  total: 75,438 km
  standard gauge: 75,438 km 1.435-m gauge (20,151 km electrified)
  (2005)

Colombia
  total: 3,304 km
  standard gauge: 150 km 1.435-m gauge
  narrow gauge: 3,154 km 0.914-m gauge (2006)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  total: 5,138 km
  narrow gauge: 3,987 km 1.067-m gauge (858 km electrified); 125 km
  1.000-m gauge; 1,026 km 0.600-m gauge (2006)

Congo, Republic of the
  total: 894 km
  narrow gauge: 894 km 1.067-m gauge (2006)

Costa Rica
  total: 278 km
  narrow gauge: 278 km 1.067-m gauge
  note: none of the railway network is in use (2007)

Cote d'Ivoire
  total: 660 km
  narrow gauge: 660 km 1.000 meter gauge
  note: an additional 622 km of this railroad extends into Burkina
  Faso (2006)

Croatia
  total: 2,726 km
  standard gauge: 2,726 km 1.435-m gauge (1,199 km electrified) (2006)

Cuba
  total: 4,226 km
  standard gauge: 4,226 km 1.435-m gauge (140 km electrified)
  note: an additional 7,742 km of track is used by sugar plantations;
  about 65% of this track is standard gauge; the rest is narrow gauge
  (2006)

Czech Republic
  total: 9,597 km
  standard gauge: 9,597 km 1.435-m gauge (3,041 km electrified) (2006)

Denmark
  total: 2,644 km
  standard gauge: 2,644 km 1.435-m gauge (636 km electrified) (2007)

Djibouti
  total: 100 km (Djibouti segment of the Addis Ababa-Djibouti
  railway)
  narrow gauge: 100 km 1.000-m gauge
  note: railway under joint control of Djibouti and Ethiopia but
  remains largely inoperable (2006)

Dominican Republic
  total: 517 km
  standard gauge: 375 km 1.435-m gauge
  narrow gauge: 142 km 0.762-m gauge
  note: additional 1,226 km operated by sugar companies in 1.076 m,
  0.889 m, and 0.762-m gauges (2006)

Ecuador
  total: 966 km
  narrow gauge: 966 km 1.067-m gauge (2006)

Egypt
  total: 5,063 km
  standard gauge: 5,063 km 1.435-m gauge (62 km electrified) (2006)

El Salvador
  total: 562 km
  narrow gauge: 562 km 0.914-m gauge
  note: railways not in operation since 2005 because of disuse and
  high costs that led to a lack of maintenance (2007)

Eritrea
  total: 306 km
  narrow gauge: 306 km 0.950-m gauge (2006)

Estonia
  total: 968 km
  broad gauge: 968 km 1.520 m/1.524-m gauge (2006)

Ethiopia
  total: 699 km (Ethiopian segment of the Addis
  Ababa-Djibouti railroad)
  narrow gauge: 699 km 1.000-m gauge
  note: railway under joint control of Djibouti and Ethiopia but
  remains largely inoperable (2006)

European Union
  total: 236,436 km
  broad gauge: 28,250 km
  standard gauge: 200,401 km
  narrow gauge: 7,771 km
  other: 23 km (2007)

Fiji
  total: 597 km
  narrow gauge: 597 km 0.600-m gauge
  note: belongs to the government-owned Fiji Sugar Corporation; used
  to haul sugarcane during harvest season (May to December) (2006)

Finland
  total: 5,741 km
  broad gauge: 5,741 km 1.524-m gauge (2,619 km electrified) (2006)

France
  total: 29,370 km
  standard gauge: 29,203 km 1.435-m gauge (14,778 km electrified)
  narrow gauge: 167 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)

Gabon
  total: 814 km
  standard gauge: 814 km 1.435-m gauge (2006)

Georgia
  total: 1,612 km
  broad gauge: 1,575 km 1.520-m gauge (1,575 electrified)
  narrow gauge: 37 km 0.912-m gauge (37 electrified) (2006)

Germany
  total: 48,215 km
  standard gauge: 47,962 km 1.435-m gauge (20,278 km electrified)
  narrow gauge: 229 km 1.000-m gauge (16 km electrified); 24 km
  0.750-m gauge (2006)

Ghana
  total: 953 km
  narrow gauge: 953 km 1.067-m gauge (2006)

Greece
  total: 2,571 km
  standard gauge: 1,565 km 1.435-m gauge (764 km electrified)
  narrow gauge: 961 km 1.000-m gauge; 22 km 0.750-m gauge
  dual gauge: 23 km combined 1.435 m and 1.000-m gauges (three rail
  system) (2006)

Guatemala
  total: 886 km
  narrow gauge: 886 km 0.914-m gauge (2006)

Guinea
  total: 837 km
  standard gauge: 175 km 1.435-m gauge
  narrow gauge: 662 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)

Honduras
  total: 699 km
  narrow gauge: 279 km 1.067-m gauge; 420 km 0.914-m gauge (2006)

Hungary
  total: 8,057 km
  broad gauge: 36 km 1.524-m gauge
  standard gauge: 7,802 km 1.435-m gauge (2,628 km electrified)
  narrow gauge: 219 km 0.760-m gauge (2006)

India
  total: 63,221 km
  broad gauge: 46,807 km 1.676-m gauge (17,343 km electrified)
  narrow gauge: 13,290 km 1.000-m gauge (165 km electrified); 3,124 km
  0.762-m gauge and 0.610-m gauge (2006)

Indonesia
  total: 6,458 km
  narrow gauge: 5,961 km 1.067-m gauge (125 km electrified); 497 km
  0.750-m gauge (2006)

Iran
  total: 8,367 km
  broad gauge: 94 km 1.676-m gauge
  standard gauge: 8,273 km 1.435-m gauge (146 km electrified) (2006)

Iraq
  total: 2,272 km
  standard gauge: 2,272 km 1.435-m gauge (2006)

Ireland
  total: 3,237 km
  broad gauge: 1,872 km 1.600-m gauge (37 km electrified)
  narrow gauge: 1,365 km 0.914-m gauge (operated by the Irish Peat
  Board to transport peat to power stations and briquetting plants)
  (2006)

Isle of Man
  total: 65 km
  standard gauge: 7 km 1.067-m gauge (7 km electrified)
  narrow gauge: 58 km 0.914-m gauge (29 km electrified)
  note: primarily summer tourist attractions (2006)

Israel
  total: 853 km
  standard gauge: 853 km 1.435-m gauge (2006)

Italy
  total: 19,460 km
  standard gauge: 18,038 km 1.435-m gauge (11,354 km electrified)
  narrow gauge: 123 km 1.000-m gauge (123 km electrified); 1,299 km
  0.950-m gauge (161 km electrified) (2006)

Japan
  total: 23,474 km
  standard gauge: 3,204 km 1.435-m gauge (3,204 km electrified)
  narrow gauge: 77 km 1.372-m gauge (77 km electrified); 20,182 km
  1.067-m gauge (13,334 km electrified); 11 km 0.762-m gauge (11 km
  electrified) (2006)

Jordan
  total: 505 km
  narrow gauge: 505 km 1.050-m gauge (2006)

Kazakhstan
  total: 13,700 km
  broad gauge: 13,700 km 1.520-m gauge (3,700 km electrified) (2006)

Kenya
  total: 2,778 km
  narrow gauge: 2,778 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)

Korea, North
  total: 5,235 km
  standard gauge: 5,235 km 1.435-m gauge (3,500 km electrified) (2006)

Korea, South
  total: 3,472 km
  standard gauge: 3,472 km 1.435-m gauge (1,342 km electrified) (2006)

Kosovo
  total: 430 km (2005)

Kyrgyzstan
  total: 470 km
  broad gauge: 470 km 1.520-m gauge (2006)

Latvia
  total: 2,303 km
  broad gauge: 2,270 km 1.520-m gauge (257 km electrified)
  narrow gauge: 33 km 0.750-m gauge (2006)

Lebanon
  total: 401 km
  standard gauge: 319 km 1.435 m
  narrow gauge: 82 km 1.050 m
  note: rail system became unusable because of damage done during
  fighting in the 1980s and in 2006 (2006)

Liberia
  total: 490 km
  standard gauge: 345 km 1.435-m gauge
  narrow gauge: 145 km 1.067-m gauge
  note: sections of railway are inoperable because of damage suffered
  during the civil war (2008)

Libya
  0 km
  note: Libya has announced plans to build seven lines totaling 2,757
  km of 1.435-m gauge track (2006)

Liechtenstein
  9 km 1.435-m gauge (electrified)
  note: belongs to the Austrian Railway System connecting Austria and
  Switzerland (2006)

Lithuania
  total: 1,771 km
  broad gauge: 1,749 km 1.524-m gauge (122 km electrified)
  standard gauge: 22 km 1.435-m gauge (2006)

Luxembourg
  total: 275 km
  standard gauge: 275 km 1.435-m gauge (243 km electrified) (2006)

Macedonia
  total: 699 km
  standard gauge: 699 km 1.435-m gauge (223 km electrified) (2006)

Madagascar
  total: 854 km
  narrow gauge: 854 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)

Malawi
  total: 797 km
  narrow gauge: 797 km 1.067-m gauge (2006)

Malaysia
  total: 1,890 km
  standard gauge: 57 km 1.435-m gauge (57 km electrified)
  narrow gauge: 1,833 km 1.000-m gauge (150 km electrified) (2006)

Mali
  total: 729 km
  narrow gauge: 729 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)

Mauritania
  717 km
  standard gauge: 717 km 1.435-m gauge (2006)

Mexico
  total: 17,665 km
  standard gauge: 17,665 km 1.435-m gauge (2006)

Moldova
  total: 1,138 km
  broad gauge: 1,124 km 1.520-m gauge
  standard gauge: 14 km 1.435-m gauge (2006)

Mongolia
  total: 1,810 km
  broad gauge: 1,810 km 1.524-m gauge (2006)

Montenegro
  total: 250 km
  standard gauge: 250 km 1.435-m gauge (electrified 169 km) (2006)

Morocco
  total: 1,907 km
  standard gauge: 1,907 km 1.435-m gauge (1,003 km electrified) (2006)

Mozambique
  total: 3,123 km
  narrow gauge: 2,983 km 1.067-m gauge; 140 km 0.762-m gauge (2006)

Namibia
  total: 2,382 km
  narrow gauge: 2,382 km 1.067-m gauge (2006)

Nepal
  total: 59 km
  narrow gauge: 59 km 0.762-m gauge (2006)

Netherlands
  total: 2,797 km
  standard gauge: 2,797 km 1.435-m gauge (2,064 km electrified) (2006)

New Zealand
  total: 4,128 km
  narrow gauge: 4,128 km 1.067-m gauge (506 km electrified) (2006)

Nicaragua
  total: 6 km
  narrow gauge: 6 km 1.067-m gauge (2006)

Nigeria
  total: 3,505 km
  narrow gauge: 3,505 km 1.067-m gauge (2006)

Norway
  total: 4,114 km
  standard gauge: 4,114 km 1.435-m gauge (2,552 km electrified) (2008)

Pakistan
  total: 8,163 km
  broad gauge: 7,718 km 1.676-m gauge (293 km electrified)
  narrow gauge: 445 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)

Panama
  total: 355 km
  standard gauge: 77 km 1.435-m gauge
  narrow gauge: 278 km 0.914-m gauge (2006)

Paraguay
  total: 36 km
  standard gauge: 36 km 1.435-m gauge (2006)

Peru
  total: 1,989 km
  standard gauge: 1,726 km 1.435-m gauge
  narrow gauge: 263 km 0.914-m gauge (2006)

Philippines
  total: 897 km
  narrow gauge: 897 km 1.067-m gauge (492 km are in operation) (2006)

Poland
  total: 23,072 km
  broad gauge: 629 km 1.524-m gauge
  standard gauge: 22,443 km 1.435-m gauge (20,555 km operational;
  11,910 km electrified) (2006)

Portugal
  total: 2,786 km
  broad gauge: 2,603 km 1.668-m gauge (1,351 km electrified)
  narrow gauge: 183 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)

Puerto Rico
  total: 96 km
  narrow gauge: 96 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)

Romania
  total: 11,385 km
  broad gauge: 60 km 1.524-m gauge
  standard gauge: 10,898 km 1.435-m gauge (3,888 km electrified)
  narrow gauge: 427 km 0.760-m gauge (2006)

Russia
  total: 87,157 km
  broad gauge: 86,200 km 1.520-m gauge (40,300 km electrified)
  narrow gauge: 957 km 1.067-m gauge (on Sakhalin Island)
  note: an additional 30,000 km of non-common carrier lines serve
  industries (2006)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  total: 50 km
  narrow gauge: 50 km 0.762-m gauge on Saint Kitts for tourists (2006)

Saudi Arabia
  total: 1,392 km
  standard gauge: 1,392 km 1.435-m gauge (with branch lines and
  sidings) (2006)

Senegal
  total: 906 km
  narrow gauge: 906 km 1.000 meter gauge (2006)

Serbia
  total: 3,379 km
  standard gauge: 3,379 km 1.435-m gauge (electrified 1,254 km) (2006)

Slovakia
  total: 3,662 km
  broad gauge: 100 km 1.520-m gauge
  standard gauge: 3,512 km 1.435-m gauge (1,588 km electrified)
  narrow gauge: 50 km (1.000-m or 0.750-m gauge) (2006)

Slovenia
  total: 1,229 km
  standard gauge: 1,229 km 1.435-m gauge (504 km electrified) (2006)

South Africa
  total: 20,872 km
  narrow gauge: 20,436 km 1.065-m gauge (8,931 km electrified); 436 km
  0.610-m gauge (2006)

Spain
  total: 14,974 km
  broad gauge: 11,919 km 1.668-m gauge (6,950 km electrified)
  standard gauge: 1,099 km 1.435-m gauge (1,054 km electrified)
  narrow gauge: 1,928 km 1.000-m gauge (815 km electrified); 28 km
  0.914-m gauge (28 km electrified) (2006)

Sri Lanka
  total: 1,449 km
  broad gauge: 1,449 km 1.676-m gauge (2006)

Sudan
  total: 5,978 km
  narrow gauge: 4,578 km 1.067-m gauge; 1,400 km 0.600-m gauge for
  cotton plantations (2006)

Swaziland
  total: 301 km
  narrow gauge: 301 km 1.067-m gauge (2006)

Sweden
  total: 11,528 km
  standard gauge: 11,528 km 1.435-m gauge (7,527 km electrified) (2006)

Switzerland
  total: 4,839 km
  standard gauge: 3,561 km 1.435-m gauge (3,195 km electrified)
  narrow gauge: 1,268 km 1.000-m gauge (1,274 km electrified); 10 km
  0.800-m gauge (10 km electrified) (2006)

Syria
  total: 2,711 km
  standard gauge: 2,460 km 1.435-m gauge
  narrow gauge: 251 km 1.050-m gauge (2006)

Taiwan
  total: 1,588 km
  standard gauge: 345 km 1.435-m gauge
  narrow gauge: 1,093 km 1.067-m gauge
  note: 150 km .762-m gauge (belonging primarily to Taiwan Sugar
  Corporation and Taiwan Forestry Bureau; some to other entities)
  (2007)

Tajikistan
  total: 482 km
  broad gauge: 482 km 1.520-m gauge (2006)

Tanzania
  total: 3,690 km
  narrow gauge: 969 km 1.067-m gauge; 2,721 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)

Thailand
  total: 4,071 km
  narrow gauge: 4,071 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)

Togo
  total: 568 km
  narrow gauge: 568 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)

Tunisia
  total: 2,153 km
  standard gauge: 471 km 1.435-m gauge
  narrow gauge: 1,674 km 1.000-m gauge (65 km electrified)
  dual gauge: 8 km 1.435 m and 1.000-m gauges (three rails) (2006)

Turkey
  total: 8,697 km
  standard gauge: 8,697 km 1.435-m gauge (1,920 km electrified) (2006)

Turkmenistan
  total: 2,440 km
  broad gauge: 2,440 km 1.520-m gauge (2006)

Uganda
  total: 1,244 km
  narrow gauge: 1,244 km 1.000-m gauge (2006)

Ukraine
  total: 22,473 km
  broad gauge: 22,473 km 1.524-m gauge (9,250 km electrified) (2006)

United Kingdom
  total: 16,567 km
  broad gauge: 303 km 1.600-m gauge (in Northern Ireland)
  standard gauge: 16,264 km 1.435-m gauge (5,361 km electrified) (2006)

United States
  total: 226,612 km
  standard gauge: 226,612 km 1.435-m gauge (2005)

Uruguay
  total: 2,073 km
  standard gauge: 2,073 km 1.435-m gauge
  note: 461 km have been taken out of service and 460 km are in
  partial use (2006)

Uzbekistan
  total: 3,950 km
  broad gauge: 3,950 km 1.520-m gauge (620 km electrified) (2006)

Venezuela
  total: 682 km
  standard gauge: 682 km 1.435-m gauge (2006)

Vietnam
  total: 2,600 km
  standard gauge: 178 km 1.435-m gauge
  narrow gauge: 2,169 km 1.000-m gauge
  dual gauge: 253 km three-rail track combining 1.435 m and 1.000-m
  gauges (2006)

World
  total: 1,370,782 km (2006)

Zambia
  total: 2,157 km
  narrow gauge: 2,157 km 1.067-m gauge
  note: includes 891 km of the Tanzania-Zambia Railway Authority
  (TAZARA) (2006)

Zimbabwe
  total: 3,077 km
  narrow gauge: 3,077 km 1.067-m gauge (313 km electrified) (2006)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2122  Religions (%)


Afghanistan
  Sunni Muslim 80%, Shia Muslim 19%, other 1%

Albania
  Muslim 70%, Albanian Orthodox 20%, Roman Catholic 10%
  note: percentages are estimates; there are no available current
  statistics on religious affiliation; all mosques and churches were
  closed in 1967 and religious observances prohibited; in November
  1990, Albania began allowing private religious practice

Algeria
  Sunni Muslim (state religion) 99%, Christian and Jewish 1%

American Samoa
  Christian Congregationalist 50%, Roman Catholic 20%,
  Protestant and other 30%

Andorra
  Roman Catholic (predominant)

Angola
  indigenous beliefs 47%, Roman Catholic 38%, Protestant 15%
  (1998 est.)

Anguilla
  Anglican 29%, Methodist 23.9%, other Protestant 30.2%,
  Roman Catholic 5.7%, other Christian 1.7%, other 5.2%, none or
  unspecified 4.3% (2001 census)

Antigua and Barbuda
  Anglican 25.7%, Seventh Day Adventist 12.3%,
  Pentecostal 10.6%, Moravian 10.5%, Roman Catholic 10.4%, Methodist
  7.9%, Baptist 4.9%, Church of God 4.5%, other Christian 5.4%, other
  2%, none or unspecified 5.8% (2001 census)

Argentina
  nominally Roman Catholic 92% (less than 20% practicing),
  Protestant 2%, Jewish 2%, other 4%

Armenia
  Armenian Apostolic 94.7%, other Christian 4%, Yezidi
  (monotheist with elements of nature worship) 1.3%

Aruba
  Roman Catholic 80.8%, Protestant 9%, other (includes Hindu,
  Muslim, Confucian, Jewish) 5.6%, none or unspecified 4.6%

Australia
  Catholic 26.4%, Anglican 20.5%, other Christian 20.5%,
  Buddhist 1.9%, Muslim 1.5%, other 1.2%, unspecified 12.7%, none
  15.3% (2001 Census)

Austria
  Roman Catholic 73.6%, Protestant 4.7%, Muslim 4.2%, other
  3.5%, unspecified 2%, none 12% (2001 census)

Azerbaijan
  Muslim 93.4%, Russian Orthodox 2.5%, Armenian Orthodox
  2.3%, other 1.8% (1995 est.)
  note: religious affiliation is still nominal in Azerbaijan;
  percentages for actual practicing adherents are much lower

Bahamas, The
  Baptist 35.4%, Anglican 15.1%, Roman Catholic 13.5%,
  Pentecostal 8.1%, Church of God 4.8%, Methodist 4.2%, other
  Christian 15.2%, none or unspecified 2.9%, other 0.8% (2000 census)

Bahrain
  Muslim (Shia and Sunni) 81.2%, Christian 9%, other 9.8%
  (2001 census)

Bangladesh
  Muslim 83%, Hindu 16%, other 1% (1998)

Barbados
  Protestant 63.4% (Anglican 28.3%, Pentecostal 18.7%,
  Methodist 5.1%, other 11.3%), Roman Catholic 4.2%, other Christian
  7%, other 4.8%, none or unspecified 20.6% (2008 est.)

Belarus
  Eastern Orthodox 80%, other (including Roman Catholic,
  Protestant, Jewish, and Muslim) 20% (1997 est.)

Belgium
  Roman Catholic 75%, other (includes Protestant) 25%

Belize
  Roman Catholic 49.6%, Protestant 27% (Pentecostal 7.4%,
  Anglican 5.3%, Seventh-Day Adventist 5.2%, Mennonite 4.1%, Methodist
  3.5%, Jehovah's Witnesses 1.5%), other 14%, none 9.4% (2000)

Benin
  Christian 42.8% (Catholic 27.1%, Celestial 5%, Methodist 3.2%,
  other Protestant 2.2%, other 5.3%), Muslim 24.4%, Vodoun 17.3%,
  other 15.5% (2002 census)

Bermuda
  Anglican 23%, Roman Catholic 15%, African Methodist
  Episcopal 11%, other Protestant 18%, other 12%, unaffiliated 6%,
  unspecified 1%, none 14% (2000 census)

Bhutan
  Lamaistic Buddhist 75%, Indian- and Nepalese-influenced
  Hinduism 25%

Bolivia
  Roman Catholic 95%, Protestant (Evangelical Methodist) 5%

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  Muslim 40%, Orthodox 31%, Roman Catholic 15%,
  other 14%

Botswana
  Christian 71.6%, Badimo 6%, other 1.4%, unspecified 0.4%,
  none 20.6% (2001 census)

Brazil
  Roman Catholic (nominal) 73.6%, Protestant 15.4%,
  Spiritualist 1.3%, Bantu/voodoo 0.3%, other 1.8%, unspecified 0.2%,
  none 7.4% (2000 census)

British Virgin Islands
  Protestant 86% (Methodist 33%, Anglican 17%,
  Church of God 9%, Seventh-Day Adventist 6%, Baptist 4%, Jehovah's
  Witnesses 2%, other 15%), Roman Catholic 10%, other 2%, none 2%
  (1991)

Brunei
  Muslim (official) 67%, Buddhist 13%, Christian 10%, other
  (includes indigenous beliefs) 10%

Bulgaria
  Bulgarian Orthodox 82.6%, Muslim 12.2%, other Christian
  1.2%, other 4% (2001 census)

Burkina Faso
  Muslim 50%, indigenous beliefs 40%, Christian (mainly
  Roman Catholic) 10%

Burma
  Buddhist 89%, Christian 4% (Baptist 3%, Roman Catholic 1%),
  Muslim 4%, animist 1%, other 2%

Burundi
  Christian 67% (Roman Catholic 62%, Protestant 5%),
  indigenous beliefs 23%, Muslim 10%

Cambodia
  Theravada Buddhist 95%, other 5%

Cameroon
  indigenous beliefs 40%, Christian 40%, Muslim 20%

Canada
  Roman Catholic 42.6%, Protestant 23.3% (including United
  Church 9.5%, Anglican 6.8%, Baptist 2.4%, Lutheran 2%), other
  Christian 4.4%, Muslim 1.9%, other and unspecified 11.8%, none 16%
  (2001 census)

Cape Verde
  Roman Catholic (infused with indigenous beliefs),
  Protestant (mostly Church of the Nazarene)

Cayman Islands
  Church of God 26%, United Church 11.8% (Presbyterian
  and Congregational), Roman Catholic 11%, Baptist 8.7%, Seventh Day
  Adventist 8.2%, Anglican 5.7%, Pentacostal 5.3%, other Christian
  2.7%, non-denominational 5.8%, other 3.8%, none 9.8%, unspecified
  1.1% (1999 census)

Central African Republic
  indigenous beliefs 35%, Protestant 25%,
  Roman Catholic 25%, Muslim 15%
  note: animistic beliefs and practices strongly influence the
  Christian majority

Chad
  Muslim 53.1%, Catholic 20.1%, Protestant 14.2%, animist 7.3%,
  other 0.5%, unknown 1.7%, atheist 3.1% (1993 census)

Chile
  Roman Catholic 70%, Evangelical 15.1%, Jehovah's Witness 1.1%,
  other Christian 1%, other 4.6%, none 8.3% (2002 census)

China
  Daoist (Taoist), Buddhist, Christian 3%-4%, Muslim 1%-2%
  note: officially atheist (2002 est.)

Christmas Island
  Buddhist 36%, Muslim 25%, Christian 18%, other 21%
  (1997)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  Sunni Muslim 80%, other 20% (2002 est.)

Colombia
  Roman Catholic 90%, other 10%

Comoros
  Sunni Muslim 98%, Roman Catholic 2%

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  Roman Catholic 50%, Protestant
  20%, Kimbanguist 10%, Muslim 10%, other (includes syncretic sects
  and indigenous beliefs) 10%

Congo, Republic of the
  Christian 50%, animist 48%, Muslim 2%

Cook Islands
  Cook Islands Christian Church 55.9%, Roman Catholic
  16.8%, Seventh-Day Adventists 7.9%, Church of Latter Day Saints
  3.8%, other Protestant 5.8%, other 4.2%, unspecified 2.6%, none 3%
  (2001 census)

Costa Rica
  Roman Catholic 76.3%, Evangelical 13.7%, Jehovah's
  Witnesses 1.3%, other Protestant 0.7%, other 4.8%, none 3.2%

Cote d'Ivoire
  Muslim 38.6%, Christian 32.8%, indigenous 11.9%, none
  16.7% (2008 est)
  note: the majority of foreigners (migratory workers) are Muslim
  (70%) and Christian (20%)

Croatia
  Roman Catholic 87.8%, Orthodox 4.4%, other Christian 0.4%,
  Muslim 1.3%, other and unspecified 0.9%, none 5.2% (2001 census)

Cuba
  nominally 85% Roman Catholic prior to CASTRO assuming power;
  Protestants, Jehovah's Witnesses, Jews, and Santeria are also
  represented

Cyprus
  Greek Orthodox 78%, Muslim 18%, other (includes Maronite and
  Armenian Apostolic) 4%

Czech Republic
  Roman Catholic 26.8%, Protestant 2.1%, other 3.3%,
  unspecified 8.8%, unaffiliated 59% (2001 census)

Denmark
  Evangelical Lutheran 95%, other Christian (includes
  Protestant and Roman Catholic) 3%, Muslim 2%

Djibouti
  Muslim 94%, Christian 6%

Dominica
  Roman Catholic 61.4%, Seventh Day Adventist 6%, Pentecostal
  5.6%, Baptist 4.1%, Methodist 3.7%, Church of God 1.2%, Jehovah's
  Witnesses 1.2%, other Christian 7.7%, Rastafarian 1.3%, other or
  unspecified 1.6%, none 6.1% (2001 census)

Dominican Republic
  Roman Catholic 95%, other 5%

Ecuador
  Roman Catholic 95%, other 5%

Egypt
  Muslim (mostly Sunni) 90%, Coptic 9%, other Christian 1%

El Salvador
  Roman Catholic 57.1%, Protestant 21.2%, Jehovah's
  Witnesses 1.9%, Mormon 0.7%, other religions 2.3%, none 16.8% (2003
  est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  nominally Christian and predominantly Roman
  Catholic, pagan practices

Eritrea
  Muslim, Coptic Christian, Roman Catholic, Protestant

Estonia
  Evangelical Lutheran 13.6%, Orthodox 12.8%, other Christian
  (including Methodist, Seventh-Day Adventist, Roman Catholic,
  Pentecostal) 1.4%, unaffiliated 34.1%, other and unspecified 32%,
  none 6.1% (2000 census)

Ethiopia
  Christian 60.8% (Orthodox 50.6%, Protestant 10.2%), Muslim
  32.8%, traditional 4.6%, other 1.8% (1994 census)

European Union
  Roman Catholic, Protestant, Orthodox, Muslim, Jewish

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  Christian 67.2%, none 31.5%, other
  1.3% (2006 census)

Faroe Islands
  Evangelical Lutheran 83.8%, other and unspecified
  16.2% (2006 administrative data)

Fiji
  Christian 53% (Methodist 34.5%, Roman Catholic 7.2%, Assembly
  of God 3.8%, Seventh Day Adventist 2.6%, other 4.9%), Hindu 34%
  (Sanatan 25%, Arya Samaj 1.2%, other 7.8%), Muslim 7% (Sunni 4.2%.
  other 2.8%), other or unspecified 5.6%, none 0.3% (1996 census)

Finland
  Lutheran Church of Finland 82.5%, Orthodox Church 1.1%,
  other Christian 1.1%, other 0.1%, none 15.1% (2006)

France
  Roman Catholic 83%-88%, Protestant 2%, Jewish 1%, Muslim
  5%-10%, unaffiliated 4%
  overseas departments: Roman Catholic, Protestant, Hindu, Muslim,
  Buddhist, pagan

French Polynesia
  Protestant 54%, Roman Catholic 30%, other 10%, no
  religion 6%

Gabon
  Christian 55%-75%, animist, Muslim less than 1%

Gambia, The
  Muslim 90%, Christian 8%, indigenous beliefs 2%

Gaza Strip
  Muslim (predominantly Sunni) 99.3%, Christian 0.7%

Georgia
  Orthodox Christian 83.9%, Muslim 9.9%, Armenian-Gregorian
  3.9%, Catholic 0.8%, other 0.8%, none 0.7% (2002 census)

Germany
  Protestant 34%, Roman Catholic 34%, Muslim 3.7%,
  unaffiliated or other 28.3%

Ghana
  Christian 68.8% (Pentecostal/Charismatic 24.1%, Protestant
  18.6%, Catholic 15.1%, other 11%), Muslim 15.9%, traditional 8.5%,
  other 0.7%, none 6.1% (2000 census)

Gibraltar
  Roman Catholic 78.1%, Church of England 7%, other
  Christian 3.2%, Muslim 4%, Jewish 2.1%, Hindu 1.8%, other or
  unspecified 0.9%, none 2.9% (2001 census)

Greece
  Greek Orthodox 98%, Muslim 1.3%, other 0.7%

Greenland
  Evangelical Lutheran

Grenada
  Roman Catholic 53%, Anglican 13.8%, other Protestant 33.2%

Guam
  Roman Catholic 85%, other 15% (1999 est.)

Guatemala
  Roman Catholic, Protestant, indigenous Mayan beliefs

Guernsey
  Anglican, Roman Catholic, Presbyterian, Baptist,
  Congregational, Methodist

Guinea
  Muslim 85%, Christian 8%, indigenous beliefs 7%

Guinea-Bissau
  Muslim 50%, indigenous beliefs 40%, Christian 10%

Guyana
  Hindu 28.4%, Pentecostal 16.9%, Roman Catholic 8.1%, Anglican
  6.9%, Seventh Day Adventist 5%, Methodist 1.7%, Jehovah Witness
  1.1%, other Christian 17.7%, Muslim 7.2%, other 4.3%, none 4.3%
  (2002 census)

Haiti
  Roman Catholic 80%, Protestant 16% (Baptist 10%, Pentecostal
  4%, Adventist 1%, other 1%), none 1%, other 3%
  note: roughly half of the population practices voodoo

Holy See (Vatican City)
  Roman Catholic

Honduras
  Roman Catholic 97%, Protestant 3%

Hong Kong
  eclectic mixture of local religions 90%, Christian 10%

Hungary
  Roman Catholic 51.9%, Calvinist 15.9%, Lutheran 3%, Greek
  Catholic 2.6%, other Christian 1%, other or unspecified 11.1%,
  unaffiliated 14.5% (2001 census)

Iceland
  Lutheran Church of Iceland 82.1%, Roman Catholic Church
  2.4%, Reykjavik Free Church 2.3%, Hafnarfjorour Free Church 1.6%,
  other Christian 2.8%, other religions 0.9%, unaffiliated 2.6%, other
  or unspecified 5.5% (2006 est.)

India
  Hindu 80.5%, Muslim 13.4%, Christian 2.3%, Sikh 1.9%, other
  1.8%, unspecified 0.1% (2001 census)

Indonesia
  Muslim 86.1%, Protestant 5.7%, Roman Catholic 3%, Hindu
  1.8%, other or unspecified 3.4% (2000 census)

Iran
  Muslim 98% (Shia 89%, Sunni 9%), other (includes Zoroastrian,
  Jewish, Christian, and Baha'i) 2%

Iraq
  Muslim 97% (Shia 60%-65%, Sunni 32%-37%), Christian or other 3%

Ireland
  Roman Catholic 87.4%, Church of Ireland 2.9%, other
  Christian 1.9%, other 2.1%, unspecified 1.5%, none 4.2% (2006 census)

Isle of Man
  Anglican, Roman Catholic, Methodist, Baptist,
  Presbyterian, Society of Friends

Israel
  Jewish 76.4%, Muslim 16%, Arab Christians 1.7%, other
  Christian 0.4%, Druze 1.6%, unspecified 3.9% (2004)

Italy
  Roman Catholic 90% (approximately; about one-third
  practicing), other 10% (includes mature Protestant and Jewish
  communities and a growing Muslim immigrant community)

Jamaica
  Protestant 62.5% (Seventh-Day Adventist 10.8%, Pentecostal
  9.5%, Other Church of God 8.3%, Baptist 7.2%, New Testament Church
  of God 6.3%, Church of God in Jamaica 4.8%, Church of God of
  Prophecy 4.3%, Anglican 3.6%, other Christian 7.7%), Roman Catholic
  2.6%, other or unspecified 14.2%, none 20.9%, (2001 census)

Japan
  observe both Shinto and Buddhist 84%, other 16% (including
  Christian 0.7%)

Jersey
  Anglican, Roman Catholic, Baptist, Congregational New Church,
  Methodist, Presbyterian

Jordan
  Sunni Muslim 92%, Christian 6% (majority Greek Orthodox, but
  some Greek and Roman Catholics, Syrian Orthodox, Coptic Orthodox,
  Armenian Orthodox, and Protestant denominations), other 2% (several
  small Shia Muslim and Druze populations) (2001 est.)

Kazakhstan
  Muslim 47%, Russian Orthodox 44%, Protestant 2%, other 7%

Kenya
  Protestant 45%, Roman Catholic 33%, Muslim 10%, indigenous
  beliefs 10%, other 2%
  note: a large majority of Kenyans are Christian, but estimates for
  the percentage of the population that adheres to Islam or indigenous
  beliefs vary widely

Kiribati
  Roman Catholic 52%, Protestant (Congregational) 40%, other
  (includes Seventh-Day Adventist, Muslim, Baha'i, Latter-day Saints,
  Church of God) 8% (1999)

Korea, North
  traditionally Buddhist and Confucianist, some Christian
  and syncretic Chondogyo (Religion of the Heavenly Way)
  note: autonomous religious activities now almost nonexistent;
  government-sponsored religious groups exist to provide illusion of
  religious freedom

Korea, South
  Christian 26.3% (Protestant 19.7%, Roman Catholic
  6.6%), Buddhist 23.2%, other or unknown 1.3%, none 49.3% (1995
  census)

Kosovo
  Muslim, Serbian Orthodox, Roman Catholic

Kuwait
  Muslim 85% (Sunni 70%, Shia 30%), other (includes Christian,
  Hindu, Parsi) 15%

Kyrgyzstan
  Muslim 75%, Russian Orthodox 20%, other 5%

Laos
  Buddhist 67%, Christian 1.5%, other and unspecified 31.5% (2005
  census)

Latvia
  Lutheran 19.6%, Orthodox 15.3%, other Christian 1%, other
  0.4%, unspecified 63.7% (2006)

Lebanon
  Muslim 59.7% (Shia, Sunni, Druze, Isma'ilite, Alawite or
  Nusayri), Christian 39% (Maronite Catholic, Greek Orthodox, Melkite
  Catholic, Armenian Orthodox, Syrian Catholic, Armenian Catholic,
  Syrian Orthodox, Roman Catholic, Chaldean, Assyrian, Copt,
  Protestant), other 1.3%
  note: 17 religious sects recognized

Lesotho
  Christian 80%, indigenous beliefs 20%

Liberia
  Christian 40%, Muslim 20%, indigenous beliefs 40%

Libya
  Sunni Muslim 97%, other 3%

Liechtenstein
  Roman Catholic 76.2%, Protestant 7%, unknown 10.6%,
  other 6.2% (June 2002)

Lithuania
  Roman Catholic 79%, Russian Orthodox 4.1%, Protestant
  (including Lutheran and Evangelical Christian Baptist) 1.9%, other
  or unspecified 5.5%, none 9.5% (2001 census)

Luxembourg
  Roman Catholic 87%, other (includes Protestant, Jewish,
  and Muslim) 13% (2000)

Macau
  Buddhist 50%, Roman Catholic 15%, none and other 35% (1997
  est.)

Macedonia
  Macedonian Orthodox 64.7%, Muslim 33.3%, other Christian
  0.37%, other and unspecified 1.63% (2002 census)

Madagascar
  indigenous beliefs 52%, Christian 41%, Muslim 7%

Malawi
  Christian 79.9%, Muslim 12.8%, other 3%, none 4.3% (1998
  census)

Malaysia
  Muslim 60.4%, Buddhist 19.2%, Christian 9.1%, Hindu 6.3%,
  Confucianism, Taoism, other traditional Chinese religions 2.6%,
  other or unknown 1.5%, none 0.8% (2000 census)

Maldives
  Sunni Muslim

Mali
  Muslim 90%, Christian 1%, indigenous beliefs 9%

Malta
  Roman Catholic 98%

Marshall Islands
  Protestant 54.8%, Assembly of God 25.8%, Roman
  Catholic 8.4%, Bukot nan Jesus 2.8%, Mormon 2.1%, other Christian
  3.6%, other 1%, none 1.5% (1999 census)

Mauritania
  Muslim 100%

Mauritius
  Hindu 48%, Roman Catholic 23.6%, Muslim 16.6%, other
  Christian 8.6%, other 2.5%, unspecified 0.3%, none 0.4% (2000 census)

Mayotte
  Muslim 97%, Christian (mostly Roman Catholic) 3%

Mexico
  Roman Catholic 76.5%, Protestant 6.3% (Pentecostal 1.4%,
  Jehovah's Witnesses 1.1%, other 3.8%), other 0.3%, unspecified
  13.8%, none 3.1% (2000 census)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  Roman Catholic 50%, Protestant 47%,
  other 3%

Moldova
  Eastern Orthodox 98%, Jewish 1.5%, Baptist and other 0.5%
  (2000)

Monaco
  Roman Catholic 90%, other 10%

Mongolia
  Buddhist Lamaist 50%, Shamanist and Christian 6%, Muslim
  4%, none 40% (2004)

Montenegro
  Orthodox 74.2%, Muslim 17.7%, Catholic 3.5%, other 0.6%,
  unspecified 3%, atheist 1% (2003 census)

Montserrat
  Anglican, Methodist, Roman Catholic, Pentecostal,
  Seventh-Day Adventist, other Christian denominations

Morocco
  Muslim 98.7%, Christian 1.1%, Jewish 0.2%

Mozambique
  Catholic 23.8%, Muslim 17.8%, Zionist Christian 17.5%,
  other 17.8%, none 23.1% (1997 census)

Namibia
  Christian 80% to 90% (Lutheran 50% at least), indigenous
  beliefs 10% to 20%

Nauru
  Nauru Congregational 35.4%, Roman Catholic 33.2%, Nauru
  Independent Church 10.4%, other 14.1%, none 4.5%, unspecified 2.4%
  (2002 census)

Nepal
  Hindu 80.6%, Buddhist 10.7%, Muslim 4.2%, Kirant 3.6%, other
  0.9% (2001 census)
  note: only official Hindu state in the world

Netherlands
  Roman Catholic 30%, Dutch Reformed 11%, Calvinist 6%,
  other Protestant 3%, Muslim 5.8%, other 2.2%, none 42% (2006)

Netherlands Antilles
  Roman Catholic 72%, Pentecostal 4.9%,
  Protestant 3.5%, Seventh-Day Adventist 3.1%, Methodist 2.9%,
  Jehovah's Witnesses 1.7%, other Christian 4.2%, Jewish 1.3%, other
  or unspecified 1.2%, none 5.2% (2001 census)

New Caledonia
  Roman Catholic 60%, Protestant 30%, other 10%

New Zealand
  Anglican 14.9%, Roman Catholic 12.4%, Presbyterian
  10.9%, Methodist 2.9%, Pentecostal 1.7%, Baptist 1.3%, other
  Christian 9.4%, other 3.3%, unspecified 17.2%, none 26% (2001 census)

Nicaragua
  Roman Catholic 58.5%, Evangelical 21.6%, Moravian 1.6%,
  Jehovah's Witness 0.9%, other 1.7%, none 15.7% (2005 census)

Niger
  Muslim 80%, other (includes indigenous beliefs and Christian)
  20%

Nigeria
  Muslim 50%, Christian 40%, indigenous beliefs 10%

Niue
  Ekalesia Niue (Niuean Church - a Protestant church closely
  related to the London Missionary Society) 61.1%, Latter-Day Saints
  8.8%, Roman Catholic 7.2%, Jehovah's Witnesses 2.4%, Seventh-Day
  Adventist 1.4%, other 8.4%, unspecified 8.7%, none 1.9% (2001 census)

Norfolk Island
  Anglican 31.8%, Roman Catholic 11.5%, Uniting Church
  in Australia 10.6%, Seventh-Day Adventist 3.2%, other Christian
  5.6%, none 19.9%, unspecified 16.6% (2006 census)

Northern Mariana Islands
  Christian (Roman Catholic majority,
  although traditional beliefs and taboos may still be found)

Norway
  Church of Norway 85.7%, Pentecostal 1%, Roman Catholic 1%,
  other Christian 2.4%, Muslim 1.8%, other 8.1% (2004)

Oman
  Ibadhi Muslim 75%, other (includes Sunni Muslim, Shi'a Muslim,
  Hindu) 25%

Pakistan
  Muslim 95% (Sunni 75%, Shia 20%), other (includes Christian
  and Hindu) 5%

Palau
  Roman Catholic 41.6%, Protestant 23.3%, Modekngei 8.8%
  (indigenous to Palau), Seventh-Day Adventist 5.3%, Jehovah's Witness
  0.9%, Latter-Day Saints 0.6%, other 3.1%, unspecified or none 16.4%
  (2000 census)

Panama
  Roman Catholic 85%, Protestant 15%

Papua New Guinea
  Roman Catholic 27%, Evangelical Lutheran 19.5%,
  United Church 11.5%, Seventh-Day Adventist 10%, Pentecostal 8.6%,
  Evangelical Alliance 5.2%, Anglican 3.2%, Baptist 2.5%, other
  Protestant 8.9%, Bahai 0.3%, indigenous beliefs and other 3.3% (2000
  census)

Paraguay
  Roman Catholic 89.6%, Protestant 6.2%, other Christian
  1.1%, other or unspecified 1.9%, none 1.1% (2002 census)

Peru
  Roman Catholic 81%, Seventh Day Adventist 1.4%, other Christian
  0.7%, other 0.6%, unspecified or none 16.3% (2003 est.)

Philippines
  Roman Catholic 80.9%, Muslim 5%, Evangelical 2.8%,
  Iglesia ni Kristo 2.3%, Aglipayan 2%, other Christian 4.5%, other
  1.8%, unspecified 0.6%, none 0.1% (2000 census)

Pitcairn Islands
  Seventh-Day Adventist 100%

Poland
  Roman Catholic 89.8% (about 75% practicing), Eastern Orthodox
  1.3%, Protestant 0.3%, other 0.3%, unspecified 8.3% (2002)

Portugal
  Roman Catholic 84.5%, other Christian 2.2%, other 0.3%,
  unknown 9%, none 3.9% (2001 census)

Puerto Rico
  Roman Catholic 85%, Protestant and other 15%

Qatar
  Muslim 77.5%, Christian 8.5%, other 14% (2004 census)

Romania
  Eastern Orthodox (including all sub-denominations) 86.8%,
  Protestant (various denominations including Reformate and
  Pentecostal) 7.5%, Roman Catholic 4.7%, other (mostly Muslim) and
  unspecified 0.9%, none 0.1% (2002 census)

Russia
  Russian Orthodox 15-20%, Muslim 10-15%, other Christian 2%
  (2006 est.)
  note: estimates are of practicing worshipers; Russia has large
  populations of non-practicing believers and non-believers, a legacy
  of over seven decades of Soviet rule

Rwanda
  Roman Catholic 56.5%, Protestant 26%, Adventist 11.1%, Muslim
  4.6%, indigenous beliefs 0.1%, none 1.7% (2001)

Saint Barthelemy
  Roman Catholic, Protestant, Jehovah's Witness

Saint Helena
  Anglican (majority), Baptist, Seventh-Day Adventist,
  Roman Catholic

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  Anglican, other Protestant, Roman Catholic

Saint Lucia
  Roman Catholic 67.5%, Seventh Day Adventist 8.5%,
  Pentecostal 5.7%, Rastafarian 2.1%, Anglican 2%, Evangelical 2%,
  other Christian 5.1%, other 1.1%, unspecified 1.5%, none 4.5% (2001
  census)

Saint Martin
  Roman Catholic, Jehovah's Witness, Protestant, Hindu

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  Roman Catholic 99%, other 1%

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  Anglican 47%, Methodist 28%, Roman
  Catholic 13%, other (includes Hindu, Seventh-Day Adventist, other
  Protestant) 12%

Samoa
  Congregationalist 34.8%, Roman Catholic 19.6%, Methodist 15%,
  Latter-Day Saints 12.7%, Assembly of God 6.6%, Seventh-Day Adventist
  3.5%, Worship Centre 1.3%, other Christian 4.5%, other 1.9%,
  unspecified 0.1% (2001 census)

San Marino
  Roman Catholic

Sao Tome and Principe
  Catholic 70.3%, Evangelical 3.4%, New
  Apostolic 2%, Adventist 1.8%, other 3.1%, none 19.4% (2001 census)

Saudi Arabia
  Muslim 100%

Senegal
  Muslim 94%, Christian 5% (mostly Roman Catholic), indigenous
  beliefs 1%

Serbia
  Serbian Orthodox 85%, Catholic 5.5%, Protestant 1.1%, Muslim
  3.2%, unspecified 2.6%, other, unknown, or atheist 2.6% (2002 census)

Seychelles
  Roman Catholic 82.3%, Anglican 6.4%, Seventh Day
  Adventist 1.1%, other Christian 3.4%, Hindu 2.1%, Muslim 1.1%, other
  non-Christian 1.5%, unspecified 1.5%, none 0.6% (2002 census)

Sierra Leone
  Muslim 60%, Christian 10%, indigenous beliefs 30%

Singapore
  Buddhist 42.5%, Muslim 14.9%, Taoist 8.5%, Hindu 4%,
  Catholic 4.8%, other Christian 9.8%, other 0.7%, none 14.8% (2000
  census)

Slovakia
  Roman Catholic 68.9%, Protestant 10.8%, Greek Catholic
  4.1%, other or unspecified 3.2%, none 13% (2001 census)

Slovenia
  Catholic 57.8%, Muslim 2.4%, Orthodox 2.3%, other Christian
  0.9%, unaffiliated 3.5%, other or unspecified 23%, none 10.1% (2002
  census)

Solomon Islands
  Church of Melanesia 32.8%, Roman Catholic 19%, South
  Seas Evangelical 17%, Seventh-Day Adventist 11.2%, United Church
  10.3%, Christian Fellowship Church 2.4%, other Christian 4.4%, other
  2.4%, unspecified 0.3%, none 0.2% (1999 census)

Somalia
  Sunni Muslim

South Africa
  Zion Christian 11.1%, Pentecostal/Charismatic 8.2%,
  Catholic 7.1%, Methodist 6.8%, Dutch Reformed 6.7%, Anglican 3.8%,
  Muslim 1.5%, other Christian 36%, other 2.3%, unspecified 1.4%, none
  15.1% (2001 census)

Spain
  Roman Catholic 94%, other 6%

Sri Lanka
  Buddhist 69.1%, Muslim 7.6%, Hindu 7.1%, Christian 6.2%,
  unspecified 10% (2001 census provisional data)

Sudan
  Sunni Muslim 70% (in north), Christian 5% (mostly in south and
  Khartoum), indigenous beliefs 25%

Suriname
  Hindu 27.4%, Protestant 25.2% (predominantly Moravian),
  Roman Catholic 22.8%, Muslim 19.6%, indigenous beliefs 5%

Swaziland
  Zionist 40% (a blend of Christianity and indigenous
  ancestral worship), Roman Catholic 20%, Muslim 10%, other (includes
  Anglican, Bahai, Methodist, Mormon, Jewish) 30%

Sweden
  Lutheran 87%, other (includes Roman Catholic, Orthodox,
  Baptist, Muslim, Jewish, and Buddhist) 13%

Switzerland
  Roman Catholic 41.8%, Protestant 35.3%, Muslim 4.3%,
  Orthodox 1.8%, other Christian 0.4%, other 1%, unspecified 4.3%,
  none 11.1% (2000 census)

Syria
  Sunni Muslim 74%, other Muslim (includes Alawite, Druze) 16%,
  Christian (various denominations) 10%, Jewish (tiny communities in
  Damascus, Al Qamishli, and Aleppo)

Taiwan
  mixture of Buddhist and Taoist 93%, Christian 4.5%, other 2.5%

Tajikistan
  Sunni Muslim 85%, Shia Muslim 5%, other 10% (2003 est.)

Tanzania
  mainland - Christian 30%, Muslim 35%, indigenous beliefs
  35%; Zanzibar - more than 99% Muslim

Thailand
  Buddhist 94.6%, Muslim 4.6%, Christian 0.7%, other 0.1%
  (2000 census)

Timor-Leste
  Roman Catholic 98%, Muslim 1%, Protestant 1% (2005)

Togo
  Christian 29%, Muslim 20%, indigenous beliefs 51%

Tokelau
  Congregational Christian Church 70%, Roman Catholic 28%,
  other 2%
  note: on Atafu, all Congregational Christian Church of Samoa; on
  Nukunonu, all Roman Catholic; on Fakaofo, both denominations, with
  the Congregational Christian Church predominant

Tonga
  Christian (Free Wesleyan Church claims over 30,000 adherents)

Trinidad and Tobago
  Roman Catholic 26%, Hindu 22.5%, Anglican 7.8%,
  Baptist 7.2%, Pentecostal 6.8%, Muslim 5.8%, Seventh Day Adventist
  4%, other Christian 5.8%, other 10.8%, unspecified 1.4%, none 1.9%
  (2000 census)

Tunisia
  Muslim 98%, Christian 1%, Jewish and other 1%

Turkey
  Muslim 99.8% (mostly Sunni), other 0.2% (mostly Christians
  and Jews)

Turkmenistan
  Muslim 89%, Eastern Orthodox 9%, unknown 2%

Turks and Caicos Islands
  Baptist 40%, Anglican 18%, Methodist 16%,
  Church of God 12%, other 14% (1990)

Tuvalu
  Church of Tuvalu (Congregationalist) 97%, Seventh-Day
  Adventist 1.4%, Baha'i 1%, other 0.6%

Uganda
  Roman Catholic 41.9%, Protestant 42% (Anglican 35.9%,
  Pentecostal 4.6%, Seventh Day Adventist 1.5%), Muslim 12.1%, other
  3.1%, none 0.9% (2002 census)

Ukraine
  Ukrainian Orthodox - Kyiv Patriarchate 50.4%, Ukrainian
  Orthodox - Moscow Patriarchate 26.1%, Ukrainian Greek Catholic 8%,
  Ukrainian Autocephalous Orthodox 7.2%, Roman Catholic 2.2%,
  Protestant 2.2%, Jewish 0.6%, other 3.2% (2006 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  Muslim 96% (Shia 16%), other (includes
  Christian, Hindu) 4%

United Kingdom
  Christian (Anglican, Roman Catholic, Presbyterian,
  Methodist) 71.6%, Muslim 2.7%, Hindu 1%, other 1.6%, unspecified or
  none 23.1% (2001 census)

United States
  Protestant 51.3%, Roman Catholic 23.9%, Mormon 1.7%,
  other Christian 1.6%, Jewish 1.7%, Buddhist 0.7%, Muslim 0.6%, other
  or unspecified 2.5%, unaffiliated 12.1%, none 4% (2007 est.)

Uruguay
  Roman Catholic 47.1%, non-Catholic Christians 11.1%,
  nondenominational 23.2%, Jewish 0.3%, atheist or agnostic 17.2%,
  other 1.1% (2006)

Uzbekistan
  Muslim 88% (mostly Sunnis), Eastern Orthodox 9%, other 3%

Vanuatu
  Presbyterian 31.4%, Anglican 13.4%, Roman Catholic 13.1%,
  Seventh-Day Adventist 10.8%, other Christian 13.8%, indigenous
  beliefs 5.6% (including Jon Frum cargo cult), other 9.6%, none 1%,
  unspecified 1.3% (1999 Census)

Venezuela
  nominally Roman Catholic 96%, Protestant 2%, other 2%

Vietnam
  Buddhist 9.3%, Catholic 6.7%, Hoa Hao 1.5%, Cao Dai 1.1%,
  Protestant 0.5%, Muslim 0.1%, none 80.8% (1999 census)

Virgin Islands
  Baptist 42%, Roman Catholic 34%, Episcopalian 17%,
  other 7%

Wallis and Futuna
  Roman Catholic 99%, other 1%

West Bank
  Muslim 75% (predominantly Sunni), Jewish 17%, Christian
  and other 8%

Western Sahara
  Muslim

World
  Christians 33.32% (of which Roman Catholics 16.99%,
  Protestants 5.78%, Orthodox 3.53%, Anglicans 1.25%), Muslims 21.01%,
  Hindus 13.26%, Buddhists 5.84%, Sikhs 0.35%, Jews 0.23%, Baha'is
  0.12%, other religions 11.78%, non-religious 11.77%, atheists 2.32%
  (2007 est.)

Yemen
  Muslim including Shaf'i (Sunni) and Zaydi (Shia), small
  numbers of Jewish, Christian, and Hindu

Zambia
  Christian 50%-75%, Muslim and Hindu 24%-49%, indigenous
  beliefs 1%

Zimbabwe
  syncretic (part Christian, part indigenous beliefs) 50%,
  Christian 25%, indigenous beliefs 24%, Muslim and other 1%

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2123  Suffrage


Afghanistan
  18 years of age; universal

Albania
  18 years of age; universal

Algeria
  18 years of age; universal

American Samoa
  18 years of age; universal

Andorra
  18 years of age; universal

Angola
  18 years of age; universal

Anguilla
  18 years of age; universal

Antigua and Barbuda
  18 years of age; universal

Argentina
  18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Armenia
  18 years of age; universal

Aruba
  18 years of age; universal

Australia
  18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Austria
  16 years of age; universal; note - reduced from 18 years of
  age in 2007

Azerbaijan
  18 years of age; universal

Bahamas, The
  18 years of age; universal

Bahrain
  20 years of age; universal

Bangladesh
  18 years of age; universal

Barbados
  18 years of age; universal

Belarus
  18 years of age; universal

Belgium
  18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Belize
  18 years of age; universal

Benin
  18 years of age; universal

Bermuda
  18 years of age; universal

Bhutan
  18 years of age; universal

Bolivia
  18 years of age, universal and compulsory (married); 21
  years of age, universal and compulsory (single)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  18 years of age, universal

Botswana
  18 years of age; universal

Brazil
  voluntary between 16 and 18 years of age and over 70;
  compulsory over 18 and under 70 years of age; note - military
  conscripts do not vote

British Virgin Islands
  18 years of age; universal

Brunei
  18 years of age for village elections; universal

Bulgaria
  18 years of age; universal

Burkina Faso
  universal

Burma
  18 years of age; universal

Burundi
  NA years of age; universal (adult)

Cambodia
  18 years of age; universal

Cameroon
  20 years of age; universal

Canada
  18 years of age; universal

Cape Verde
  18 years of age; universal

Cayman Islands
  18 years of age; universal

Central African Republic
  21 years of age; universal

Chad
  18 years of age; universal

Chile
  18 years of age; universal and compulsory

China
  18 years of age; universal

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  NA

Colombia
  18 years of age; universal

Comoros
  18 years of age; universal

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  18 years of age; universal and
  compulsory

Congo, Republic of the
  18 years of age; universal

Cook Islands
  NA years of age; universal (adult)

Costa Rica
  18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Cote d'Ivoire
  18 years of age; universal

Croatia
  18 years of age; universal (16 years of age, if employed)

Cuba
  16 years of age; universal

Cyprus
  18 years of age; universal

Czech Republic
  18 years of age; universal

Denmark
  18 years of age; universal

Djibouti
  18 years of age; universal

Dominica
  18 years of age; universal

Dominican Republic
  18 years of age, universal and compulsory;
  married persons regardless of age; note - members of the armed
  forces and national police cannot vote

Ecuador
  18 years of age; universal, compulsory for literate persons
  ages 18-65, optional for other eligible voters

Egypt
  18 years of age; universal and compulsory

El Salvador
  18 years of age; universal

Equatorial Guinea
  18 years of age; universal

Eritrea
  18 years of age; universal

Estonia
  18 years of age; universal for all Estonian citizens

Ethiopia
  18 years of age; universal

European Union
  18 years of age; universal

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  18 years of age; universal

Faroe Islands
  18 years of age; universal

Fiji
  21 years of age; universal

Finland
  18 years of age; universal

France
  18 years of age; universal

French Polynesia
  18 years of age; universal

Gabon
  21 years of age; universal

Gambia, The
  18 years of age; universal

Georgia
  18 years of age; universal

Germany
  18 years of age; universal

Ghana
  18 years of age; universal

Gibraltar
  18 years of age; universal; and British citizens who have
  been residents six months or more

Greece
  18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Greenland
  18 years of age; universal

Grenada
  18 years of age; universal

Guam
  18 years of age; universal; US citizens, but do not vote in US
  presidential elections

Guatemala
  18 years of age; universal; note - active duty members of
  the armed forces may not vote and are restricted to their barracks
  on election day

Guernsey
  18 years of age; universal

Guinea
  18 years of age; universal

Guinea-Bissau
  18 years of age; universal

Guyana
  18 years of age; universal

Haiti
  18 years of age; universal

Holy See (Vatican City)
  limited to cardinals less than 80 years old

Honduras
  18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Hong Kong
  direct election - 18 years of age for a number of
  non-executive positions; universal for permanent residents living in
  the territory of Hong Kong for the past seven years; indirect
  election - limited to about 220,000 members of functional
  constituencies and an 800-member election committee drawn from broad
  regional groupings, central government bodies, and municipal
  organizations

Hungary
  18 years of age; universal

Iceland
  18 years of age; universal

India
  18 years of age; universal

Indonesia
  17 years of age; universal and married persons regardless
  of age

Iran
  16 years of age; universal

Iraq
  18 years of age; universal

Ireland
  18 years of age; universal

Isle of Man
  16 years of age; universal

Israel
  18 years of age; universal

Italy
  18 years of age; universal (except in senatorial elections,
  where minimum age is 25)

Jamaica
  18 years of age; universal

Japan
  20 years of age; universal

Jersey
  16 years of age; universal

Jordan
  18 years of age; universal

Kazakhstan
  18 years of age; universal

Kenya
  18 years of age; universal

Kiribati
  18 years of age; universal

Korea, North
  17 years of age; universal

Korea, South
  19 years of age; universal

Kosovo
  18 years of age; universal

Kuwait
  NA years of age; universal (adult); note - males in the
  military or police are not allowed to vote; adult females were
  allowed to vote as of 16 May 2005; all voters must have been
  citizens for 20 years

Kyrgyzstan
  18 years of age; universal

Laos
  18 years of age; universal

Latvia
  18 years of age; universal for Latvian citizens

Lebanon
  21 years of age; compulsory for all males; authorized for
  women at age 21 with elementary education

Lesotho
  18 years of age; universal

Liberia
  18 years of age; universal

Libya
  18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Liechtenstein
  18 years of age; universal

Lithuania
  18 years of age; universal

Luxembourg
  18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Macau
  direct election 18 years of age for some non-executive
  positions, universal for permanent residents living in Macau for the
  past seven years; indirect election limited to organizations
  registered as "corporate voters" (257 are currently registered) and
  a 300-member Election Committee drawn from broad regional groupings,
  municipal organizations, and central government bodies

Macedonia
  18 years of age; universal

Madagascar
  18 years of age; universal

Malawi
  18 years of age; universal

Malaysia
  21 years of age; universal

Maldives
  21 years of age; universal

Mali
  18 years of age; universal

Malta
  18 years of age; universal

Marshall Islands
  18 years of age; universal

Mauritania
  18 years of age; universal

Mauritius
  18 years of age; universal

Mayotte
  18 years of age; universal

Mexico
  18 years of age; universal and compulsory (but not enforced)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  18 years of age; universal

Moldova
  18 years of age; universal

Monaco
  18 years of age; universal

Mongolia
  18 years of age; universal

Montenegro
  18 years of age; universal

Montserrat
  18 years of age; universal

Morocco
  18 years of age; universal (as of January 2003)

Mozambique
  18 years of age; universal

Namibia
  18 years of age; universal

Nauru
  20 years of age; universal and compulsory

Nepal
  18 years of age; universal

Netherlands
  18 years of age; universal

Netherlands Antilles
  18 years of age; universal

New Caledonia
  18 years of age; universal

New Zealand
  18 years of age; universal

Nicaragua
  16 years of age; universal

Niger
  18 years of age; universal

Nigeria
  18 years of age; universal

Niue
  18 years of age; universal

Norfolk Island
  18 years of age; universal

Northern Mariana Islands
  18 years of age; universal; indigenous
  inhabitants are US citizens but do not vote in US presidential
  elections

Norway
  18 years of age; universal

Oman
  21 years of age; universal; note - members of the military and
  security forces are not allowed to vote

Pakistan
  18 years of age; universal; joint electorates and reserved
  parliamentary seats for women and non-Muslims

Palau
  18 years of age; universal

Panama
  18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Papua New Guinea
  18 years of age; universal

Paraguay
  18 years of age; universal and compulsory up to age 75

Peru
  18 years of age; universal and compulsory until the age of 70;
  note - for the first time in recent elections, members of the
  military and national police were eligible to vote in the 2006
  elections

Philippines
  18 years of age; universal

Pitcairn Islands
  18 years of age; universal with three years
  residency

Poland
  18 years of age; universal

Portugal
  18 years of age; universal

Puerto Rico
  18 years of age; universal; island residents are US
  citizens but do not vote in US presidential elections

Qatar
  18 years of age; universal

Romania
  18 years of age; universal

Russia
  18 years of age; universal

Rwanda
  18 years of age; universal

Saint Barthelemy
  18 years of age, universal

Saint Helena
  NA years of age

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  18 years of age; universal

Saint Lucia
  18 years of age; universal

Saint Martin
  18 years of age, universal

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  18 years of age; universal

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  18 years of age; universal

Samoa
  21 years of age; universal

San Marino
  18 years of age; universal

Sao Tome and Principe
  18 years of age; universal

Saudi Arabia
  21 years of age; male

Senegal
  18 years of age; universal

Serbia
  18 years of age; universal

Seychelles
  17 years of age; universal

Sierra Leone
  18 years of age; universal

Singapore
  21 years of age; universal and compulsory

Slovakia
  18 years of age; universal

Slovenia
  18 years of age; universal (16 years of age, if employed)

Solomon Islands
  21 years of age; universal

Somalia
  18 years of age; universal

South Africa
  18 years of age; universal

Spain
  18 years of age; universal

Sri Lanka
  18 years of age; universal

Sudan
  17 years of age; universal

Suriname
  18 years of age; universal

Swaziland
  18 years of age

Sweden
  18 years of age; universal

Switzerland
  18 years of age; universal

Syria
  18 years of age; universal

Taiwan
  20 years of age; universal

Tajikistan
  18 years of age; universal

Tanzania
  18 years of age; universal

Thailand
  18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Timor-Leste
  17 years of age; universal

Togo
  NA years of age; universal (adult)

Tokelau
  21 years of age; universal

Tonga
  21 years of age; universal

Trinidad and Tobago
  18 years of age; universal

Tunisia
  18 years of age; universal except for active government
  security forces (including the police and the military), people with
  mental disabilities, people who have served more than three months
  in prison (criminal cases only), and people given a suspended
  sentence of more than six months

Turkey
  18 years of age; universal

Turkmenistan
  18 years of age; universal

Turks and Caicos Islands
  18 years of age; universal

Tuvalu
  18 years of age; universal

Uganda
  18 years of age; universal

Ukraine
  18 years of age; universal

United Arab Emirates
  none

United Kingdom
  18 years of age; universal

United States
  18 years of age; universal

Uruguay
  18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Uzbekistan
  18 years of age; universal

Vanuatu
  18 years of age; universal

Venezuela
  18 years of age; universal

Vietnam
  18 years of age; universal

Virgin Islands
  18 years of age; universal; island residents are US
  citizens but do not vote in US presidential elections

Wallis and Futuna
  18 years of age; universal

Western Sahara
  none; a UN-sponsored voter identification campaign
  not yet completed

Yemen
  18 years of age; universal

Zambia
  18 years of age; universal

Zimbabwe
  18 years of age; universal

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2124  Telephone system


Afghanistan
  general assessment: limited landline telephone service;
  an increasing number of Afghans utilize mobile-cellular phone
  networks in major cities
  domestic: aided by the presence of multiple providers,
  mobile-cellular telephone service is improving rapidly
  international: country code - 93; five VSAT's installed in Kabul,
  Herat, Mazar-e-Sharif, Kandahar, and Jalalabad provide international
  and domestic voice and data connectivity (2007)

Albania
  general assessment: despite new investment in fixed lines,
  the density of main lines remains low with roughly 10 lines per 100
  people; cellular telephone use is widespread and generally
  effective; combined fixed line and mobile telephone density is
  approximately 75 telephones per 100 persons
  domestic: offsetting the shortage of fixed line capacity, mobile
  phone service has been available since 1996; by 2003, two companies
  were providing mobile services at a greater density than some of
  Albania's neighbors; Internet broadband services initiated in 2005;
  Internet cafes are popular in Tirana and have started to spread
  outside the capital
  international: country code - 355; submarine cable provides
  connectivity to Italy, Croatia, and Greece; the Trans-Balkan Line, a
  combination submarine cable and land fiber-optic system, provides
  additional connectivity to Bulgaria, Macedonia, and Turkey;
  international traffic carried by fiber-optic cable and, when
  necessary, by microwave radio relay from the Tirana exchange to
  Italy and Greece (2007)

Algeria
  general assessment: a weak network of fixed-main lines,
  which remains low at less than 10 telephones per 100 persons, is
  partially offset by the rapid increase in mobile cellular
  subscribership; in 2007, combined fixed-line and mobile telephone
  density surpassed 90 telephones per 100 persons
  domestic: privatization of Algeria's telecommunications sector began
  in 2000; three mobile cellular licenses have been issued and, in
  2005, a consortium led by Egypt's Orascom Telecom won a 15-year
  license to build and operate a fixed-line network in Algeria; the
  license will allow Orascom to develop high-speed data and other
  specialized services and contribute to meeting the large unfulfilled
  demand for basic residential telephony; Internet broadband services
  began in 2003 with approximately 200,000 subscribers in 2006
  international: country code - 213; landing point for the SEA-ME-WE-4
  fiber-optic submarine cable system that provides links to Europe,
  the Middle East, and Asia; microwave radio relay to Italy, France,
  Spain, Morocco, and Tunisia; coaxial cable to Morocco and Tunisia;
  participant in Medarabtel; satellite earth stations - 51 (Intelsat,
  Intersputnik, and Arabsat) (2007)

American Samoa
  general assessment: NA
  domestic: good telex, telegraph, facsimile, and cellular telephone
  services; domestic satellite system with 1 Comsat earth station
  international: country code - 1-684; satellite earth station - 1
  (Intelsat-Pacific Ocean)

Andorra
  general assessment: NA
  domestic: modern system with microwave radio relay connections
  between exchanges
  international: country code - 376; landline circuits to France and
  Spain

Angola
  general assessment: system inadequate; fewer than one
  fixed-line per 100 persons; combined fixed line and mobile telephone
  density exceeded 25 telephones per 100 persons in 2007
  domestic: state-owned telecom had monopoly for fixed-lines until
  2005; demand outstripped capacity, prices were high, and services
  poor; Telecom Namibia, through an Angolan company, became the first
  private licensed operator in Angola's fixed-line telephone network;
  Angola Telecom established mobile-cellular service in Luanda in 1993
  and the network has been extended to larger towns; a
  privately-owned, mobile-cellular service provider began operations
  in 2001
  international: country code - 244; landing point for the SAT-3/WASC
  fiber-optic submarine cable that provides connectivity to Europe and
  Asia; satellite earth stations - 29 (2007)

Anguilla
  general assessment: NA
  domestic: modern internal telephone system
  international: country code - 1-264; landing point for the East
  Caribbean Fiber System (ECFS) submarine cable with links to 13 other
  islands in the eastern Caribbean extending from the British Virgin
  Islands to Trinidad; microwave radio relay to island of Saint Martin
  (Guadeloupe and Netherlands Antilles) (2007)

Antarctica
  general assessment: local systems at some research
  stations
  domestic: commercial cellular networks operating in a small number
  of locations
  international: country code - none allocated; via satellite
  (including mobile Inmarsat and Iridium systems) to and from all
  research stations, ships, aircraft, and most field parties (2007)

Antigua and Barbuda
  general assessment: NA
  domestic: good automatic telephone system
  international: country code - 1-268; landing point for the East
  Caribbean Fiber System (ECFS) submarine cable with links to 13 other
  islands in the eastern Caribbean extending from the British Virgin
  Islands to Trinidad; satellite earth stations - 2; tropospheric
  scatter to Saba (Netherlands Antilles) and Guadeloupe (2007)

Argentina
  general assessment: by opening the telecommunications
  market to competition and foreign investment with the
  "Telecommunications Liberalization Plan of 1998," Argentina
  encouraged the growth of modern telecommunications technology;
  fiber-optic cable trunk lines are being installed between all major
  cities; major networks are entirely digital and the availability of
  telephone service is improving; fixed-line telephone density is
  gradually increasing reaching nearly 25 lines per 100 people in
  2007; mobile telephone subscribership has been increasing rapidly
  and has reached a level of 100 telephones per 100 persons
  domestic: microwave radio relay, fiber-optic cable, and a domestic
  satellite system with 40 earth stations serve the trunk network;
  more than 110,000 pay telephones are installed and mobile telephone
  use is rapidly expanding; broadband services are gaining ground
  international: country code - 54; landing point for the Atlantis-2,
  UNISUR, and South America-1 optical submarine cable systems that
  provide links to Europe, Africa, South and Central America, and US;
  satellite earth stations - 112; 2 international gateways near Buenos
  Aires (2007)

Armenia
  general assessment: telecommunications investments have made
  major inroads in modernizing and upgrading the outdated
  telecommunications network inherited from the Soviet era; now 100%
  privately owned and undergoing modernization and expansion;
  mobile-cellular services monopoly terminated in late 2004 and a
  second provider began operations in mid-2005
  domestic: reliable modern landline and mobile-cellular services are
  available across Yerevan in major cities and towns; significant but
  ever-shrinking gaps remain in mobile-cellular coverage in rural areas
  international: country code - 374; Yerevan is connected to the
  Trans-Asia-Europe fiber-optic cable through Iran; additional
  international service is available by microwave radio relay and
  landline connections to the other countries of the Commonwealth of
  Independent States, through the Moscow international switch, and by
  satellite to the rest of the world; satellite earth stations - 3
  (2007)

Aruba
  general assessment: modern fully automatic telecommunications
  system
  domestic: increased competition through privatization; 3 wireless
  service providers are now licensed
  international: country code - 297; landing site for the PAN-AM
  submarine telecommunications cable system that extends from the US
  Virgin Islands through Aruba to Venezuela, Colombia, Panama, and the
  west coast of South America; extensive interisland microwave radio
  relay links (2007)

Australia
  general assessment: excellent domestic and international
  service
  domestic: domestic satellite system; significant use of
  radiotelephone in areas of low population density; rapid growth of
  mobile cellular telephones
  international: country code - 61; landing point for the SEA-ME-WE-3
  optical telecommunications submarine cable with links to Asia, the
  Middle East, and Europe; the Southern Cross fiber optic submarine
  cable provides links to New Zealand and the United States; satellite
  earth stations - 19 (10 Intelsat - 4 Indian Ocean and 6 Pacific
  Ocean, 2 Inmarsat - Indian and Pacific Ocean regions, 2 Globalstar,
  5 other) (2007)

Austria
  general assessment: highly developed and efficient
  domestic: fixed-line subscribership has been in decline since the
  mid-1990s with mobile-cellular subscribership eclipsing it by the
  late 1990s; the fiber-optic net is very extensive; all telephone
  applications and Internet services are available
  international: country code - 43; satellite earth stations - 15; in
  addition, there are about 600 VSATs (very small aperture terminals)
  (2007)

Azerbaijan
  general assessment: inadequate; requires considerable
  expansion and modernization; teledensity of 15 main lines per 100
  persons is low; mobile-cellular penetration is increasing and is
  currently about 50 telephones per 100 persons
  domestic: fixed-line telephony and a broad range of other telecom
  services are controlled by a state-owned telecommunications monopoly
  and growth has been stagnant; more competition exists in the
  mobile-cellular market with three providers in 2006; satellite
  service connects Baku to a modern switch in its exclave of Naxcivan
  international: country code - 994; the old Soviet system of cable
  and microwave is still serviceable; satellite earth stations - 2
  (2007)

Bahamas, The
  general assessment: modern facilities
  domestic: totally automatic system; highly developed; the Bahamas
  Domestic Submarine Network links 14 of the islands and is designed
  to satisfy increasing demand for voice and broadband internet
  services
  international: country code - 1-242; landing point for the Americas
  Region Caribbean Ring System (ARCOS-1) fiber-optic submarine cable
  that provides links to South and Central America, parts of the
  Caribbean, and the US; satellite earth stations - 2 (2007)

Bahrain
  general assessment: modern system
  domestic: modern fiber-optic integrated services; digital network
  with rapidly growing use of mobile-cellular telephones
  international: country code - 973; landing point for the Fiber-Optic
  Link Around the Globe (FLAG) submarine cable network that provides
  links to Asia, Middle East, Europe, and US; tropospheric scatter to
  Qatar and UAE; microwave radio relay to Saudi Arabia; satellite
  earth station - 1 (2007)

Bangladesh
  general assessment: inadequate for a modern country;
  fixed-line telephone density remains less than 1 per 100 persons;
  mobile-cellular telephone subscribership has been increasing rapidly
  and is approaching 25 per 100 persons
  domestic: modernizing; introducing digital systems; trunk systems
  include VHF and UHF microwave radio relay links, and some
  fiber-optic cable in cities
  international: country code - 880; landing point for the SEA-ME-WE-4
  fiber-optic submarine cable system that provides links to Europe,
  the Middle East, and Asia; satellite earth stations - 6;
  international radiotelephone communications and landline service to
  neighboring countries (2007)

Barbados
  general assessment: fixed-line teledensity of roughly 50
  per 100 persons; mobile-cellular telephone density of about 85 per
  100 persons
  domestic: island-wide automatic telephone system
  international: country code - 1-246; landing point for the East
  Caribbean Fiber System (ECFS) submarine cable with links to 13 other
  islands in the eastern Caribbean extending from the British Virgin
  Islands to Trinidad; satellite earth stations - 1 (Intelsat
  -Atlantic Ocean); tropospheric scatter to Trinidad and Saint Lucia
  (2007)

Belarus
  general assessment: Belarus lags behind its neighbors in
  upgrading telecommunications infrastructure; state-owned Beltelcom
  is the sole provider of fixed-line local and long distance service;
  fixed-line teledensity of roughly 35 per 100 persons;
  mobile-cellular telephone density of about 60 per 100 persons;
  modernization of the network progressing with roughly two-thirds of
  switching equipment now digital
  domestic: fixed-line penetration is improving although rural areas
  continue to be underserved; 3 GSM wireless networks are experiencing
  rapid growth; strict government controls on telecommunications
  technologies
  international: country code - 375; Belarus is a member of the
  Trans-European Line (TEL), Trans-Asia-Europe (TAE) fiber-optic line,
  and has access to the Trans-Siberia Line (TSL); 3 fiber-optic
  segments provide connectivity to Latvia, Poland, Russia, and
  Ukraine; worldwide service is available to Belarus through this
  infrastructure; additional analog lines to Russia; Intelsat,
  Eutelsat, and Intersputnik earth stations (2007)

Belgium
  general assessment: highly developed, technologically
  advanced, and completely automated domestic and international
  telephone and telegraph facilities
  domestic: nationwide cellular telephone system; extensive cable
  network; limited microwave radio relay network
  international: country code - 32; landing point for a number of
  submarine cables that provide links to Europe, the Middle East, and
  Asia; satellite earth stations - 7 (Intelsat - 3) (2007)

Belize
  general assessment: above-average system; fixed-line
  teledensity of 12 per 100 persons; mobile-cellular telephone density
  of about 40 per 100 persons
  domestic: trunk network depends primarily on microwave radio relay
  international: country code - 501; landing point for the Americas
  Region Caribbean Ring System (ARCOS-1) fiber-optic
  telecommunications submarine cable that provides links to South and
  Central America, parts of the Caribbean, and the US; satellite earth
  station - 8 (Intelsat - 2, unknown - 6) (2007)

Benin
  general assessment: inadequate; fixed-line network
  characterized by aging, deteriorating equipment with fixed-line
  teledensity stuck at 1 per 100 persons; mobile-cellular telephone
  subscribership is increasing
  domestic: system of open-wire, microwave radio relay, and cellular
  connections; multiple mobile-cellular providers
  international: country code - 229; landing point for the SAT-3/WASC
  fiber-optic submarine cable that provides connectivity to Europe and
  Asia; satellite earth stations - 7 (Intelsat-Atlantic Ocean) (2007)

Bermuda
  general assessment: good
  domestic: fully automatic digital telephone system; fiber optic
  trunk lines
  international: country code - 1-441; landing point for the
  Atlantica-1 telecommunications submarine cable that extends from the
  US to Brazil; satellite earth stations - 3 (2007)

Bhutan
  general assessment: urban towns and district headquarters
  have telecommunications services
  domestic: very low teledensity; domestic service is very poor
  especially in rural areas; wireless service available since 2003
  international: country code - 975; international telephone and
  telegraph service via landline and microwave relay through India;
  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (2007)

Bolivia
  general assessment: privatization begun in 1995; reliability
  has steadily improved; new subscribers face bureaucratic
  difficulties; most telephones are concentrated in La Paz and other
  cities; mobile-cellular telephone use expanding rapidly; fixed-line
  teledensity of 7 per 100 persons; mobile-cellular telephone density
  of 35 per 100 persons
  domestic: primary trunk system, which is being expanded, employs
  digital microwave radio relay; some areas are served by fiber-optic
  cable; mobile cellular systems are being expanded
  international: country code - 591; satellite earth station - 1
  Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  general assessment: post-war reconstruction
  of the telecommunications network, aided by a internationally
  sponsored program under ERBD, resulted in sharp increases in the
  number of main telephone lines available; mobile cellular
  subscribership has been increasing rapidly
  domestic: fixed-line teledensity roughly 25 per 100 persons;
  mobile-cellular telephone density exceeds 50 per 100 persons
  international: country code - 387; no satellite earth stations (2007)

Botswana
  general assessment: the system is expanding with the growth
  of mobile-cellular service and participation in regional
  development; system is fully digital with fiber-optic cables linking
  the major population centers in the east; fixed-line connections
  declined in recent years and now stand at roughly 8 per 100 persons;
  mobile-cellular telephone density currently is about 80 per 100
  persons
  domestic: small system of open-wire lines, microwave radio relay
  links, and a few radiotelephone communication stations;
  mobile-cellular service is growing fast
  international: country code - 267; international calls are made via
  satellite, using international direct dialing; 2 international
  exchanges; digital microwave radio relay links to Namibia, Zambia,
  Zimbabwe, and South Africa; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat
  (Indian Ocean) (2007)

Brazil
  general assessment: good working system; fixed-line
  connections have remained relatively stable in recent years and
  stand at about 20 per 100 persons; less expensive mobile cellular
  technology is a major driver in expanding telephone service to the
  low-income segment of the population with mobile-cellular telephone
  density reaching nearly 65 per 100 persons
  domestic: extensive microwave radio relay system and a domestic
  satellite system with 64 earth stations; mobile-cellular usage has
  more than tripled in the past 5 years
  international: country code - 55; landing point for a number of
  submarine cables that provide direct links to South and Central
  America, the Caribbean, the US, Africa, and Europe; satellite earth
  stations - 3 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean), 1 Inmarsat (Atlantic Ocean
  region east), connected by microwave relay system to Mercosur
  Brazilsat B3 satellite earth station (2007)

British Indian Ocean Territory
  general assessment: separate
  facilities for military and public needs are available
  domestic: all commercial telephone services are available, including
  connection to the Internet
  international: country code (Diego Garcia) - 246; international
  telephone service is carried by satellite (2000)

British Virgin Islands
  general assessment: worldwide telephone
  service
  domestic: NA
  international: country code - 1-284; connected via submarine cable
  to Bermuda; the East Caribbean Fiber System (ECFS) submarine cable
  provides connectivity to 13 other islands in the eastern Caribbean
  (2007)

Brunei
  general assessment: service throughout the country is
  excellent; international service is good to Southeast Asia, Middle
  East, Western Europe, and the US
  domestic: every service available
  international: country code - 673; landing point for the SEA-ME-WE-3
  optical telecommunications submarine cable that provides links to
  Asia, the Middle East, and Europe; the Asia-America Gateway
  submarine cable network, scheduled for completion by late 2008, will
  provide new links to Asia and the US; satellite earth stations - 2
  Intelsat (1 Indian Ocean and 1 Pacific Ocean) (2007)

Bulgaria
  general assessment: an extensive but antiquated
  telecommunications network inherited from the Soviet era; quality
  has improved; the Bulgaria Telecommunications Company's fixed-line
  monopoly terminated in 2005 when alternative fixed-line operators
  were given access to its network; a drop in fixed-line connections
  in recent years has been more than offset by a sharp increase in
  mobile-cellular telephone use fostered by multiple service
  providers; the number of cellular telephone subscriptions now
  exceeds the population
  domestic: a fairly modern digital cable trunk line now connects
  switching centers in most of the regions; the others are connected
  by digital microwave radio relay
  international: country code - 359; submarine cable provides
  connectivity to Ukraine and Russia; a combination submarine cable
  and land fiber-optic system provides connectivity to Italy, Albania,
  and Macedonia; satellite earth stations - 3 (1 Intersputnik in the
  Atlantic Ocean region, 2 Intelsat in the Atlantic and Indian Ocean
  regions) (2007)

Burkina Faso
  general assessment: services only fair; in 2006 the
  government sold a 51 percent stake in the national telephone company
  and ultimately plans to retain only a 23 percent stake in the
  company; fixed-line connections stand at less than 1 per 100
  persons; mobile-cellular usage, fostered by multiple providers, is
  increasing rapidly from a low base
  domestic: microwave radio relay, open-wire, and radiotelephone
  communication stations
  international: country code - 226; satellite earth station - 1
  Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)

Burma
  general assessment: meets minimum requirements for local and
  intercity service for business and government
  domestic: system barely capable of providing basic service; cellular
  phone system is grossly underdeveloped with a subscribership base of
  less than 1 per 100 persons
  international: country code - 95; landing point for the SEA-ME-WE-3
  optical telecommunications submarine cable that provides links to
  Asia, the Middle East, and Europe; satellite earth stations - 2,
  Intelsat (Indian Ocean) and ShinSat (2007)

Burundi
  general assessment: primitive system; telephone density one
  of the lowest in the world; fixed-line connections stand at well
  less than 1 per 100 persons; mobile-cellular usage is increasing but
  remains at a meager 3 per 100 persons
  domestic: sparse system of open-wire, radiotelephone communications,
  and low-capacity microwave radio relay
  international: country code - 257; satellite earth station - 1
  Intelsat (Indian Ocean) (2007)

Cambodia
  general assessment: mobile-phone systems are widely used in
  urban areas to bypass deficiencies in the fixed-line network;
  fixed-line connections stand at well less than 1 per 100 persons;
  mobile-cellular usage, aided by increasing competition among service
  providers, is increasing and stands at nearly 20 per 100 persons
  domestic: adequate landline and/or cellular service in Phnom Penh
  and other provincial cities; mobile-phone coverage is rapidly
  expanding in rural areas
  international: country code - 855; adequate but expensive landline
  and cellular service available to all countries from Phnom Penh and
  major provincial cities; satellite earth station - 1 Intersputnik
  (Indian Ocean region) (2007)

Cameroon
  general assessment: fixed-line connections stand at less
  than 1 per 100 persons; equipment is old and outdated, and
  connections with many parts of the country are unreliable;
  mobile-cellular usage, in part a reflection of the poor condition
  and general inadequacy of the fixed-line network, increased more
  than 6-fold between 2002 and 2007 reaching a subscribership base of
  25 per 100 persons
  domestic: cable, microwave radio relay, and tropospheric scatter
  international: country code - 237; landing point for the SAT-3/WASC
  fiber-optic submarine cable that provides connectivity to Europe and
  Asia; satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)

Canada
  general assessment: excellent service provided by modern
  technology
  domestic: domestic satellite system with about 300 earth stations
  international: country code - 1; submarine cables provide links to
  the US and Europe; satellite earth stations - 7 (5 Intelsat - 4
  Atlantic Ocean and 1 Pacific Ocean, and 2 Intersputnik - Atlantic
  Ocean region) (2007)

Cape Verde
  general assessment: effective system, extensive
  modernization from 1996-2000 following partial privatization in 1995
  domestic: major service provider is Cabo Verde Telecom (CVT);
  fiber-optic ring, completed in 2001, links all islands providing
  Internet access and ISDN services; cellular service introduced in
  1998; broadband services launched in 2004
  international: country code - 238; landing point for the Atlantis-2
  fiber-optic transatlantic telephone cable that provides links to
  South America, Senegal, and Europe; HF radiotelephone to Senegal and
  Guinea-Bissau; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)
  (2007)

Cayman Islands
  general assessment: reasonably good system
  domestic: liberalization of telecom market in 2003; introduction of
  competition in the mobile-cellular market in 2004
  international: country code - 1-345; landing point for the MAYA-1
  submarine telephone cable network that provides links to the US and
  parts of Central and South America; submarine cable provides
  connectivity to Jamaica; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat
  (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)

Central African Republic
  general assessment: limited telephone
  service; fixed-line connections for well less than 1 per 100 persons
  coupled with mobile-cellular usage of only about 3 per 100 persons;
  most fixed-line and cellular telephone services are concentrated in
  Bangui
  domestic: network consists principally of microwave radio relay and
  low-capacity, low-powered radiotelephone communication
  international: country code - 236; satellite earth station - 1
  Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)

Chad
  general assessment: primitive system with high costs and low
  telephone density; fixed-line connections for only about 1 per 1000
  persons coupled with mobile-cellular usage of only about 9 per 100
  persons
  domestic: fair system of radiotelephone communication stations
  international: country code - 235; satellite earth station - 1
  Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)

Chile
  general assessment: privatization begun in 1988; most advanced
  telecommunications infrastructure in South America; modern system
  based on extensive microwave radio relay facilities; fixed-line
  connections have dropped in recent years as mobile-cellular usage
  continues to increase, reaching a level of 85 telephones per 100
  persons
  domestic: extensive microwave radio relay links; domestic satellite
  system with 3 earth stations
  international: country code - 56; submarine cables provide links to
  the US and to Central and South America; satellite earth stations -
  2 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)

China
  general assessment: domestic and international services are
  increasingly available for private use; unevenly distributed
  domestic system serves principal cities, industrial centers, and
  many towns; nonetheless, by the end of 2006, more than 95% of
  China's villages had been connected to the telephone network; China
  continues to develop its telecommunications infrastructure, and is
  partnering with foreign providers to expand its global reach; 3 of
  China's 6 major telecommunications operators are part of an
  international consortium which, in December 2006, signed an
  agreement with Verizon Business to build the first next-generation
  fiber optic submarine cable system directly linking the US mainland
  and China
  domestic: interprovincial fiber-optic trunk lines and cellular
  telephone systems have been installed; mobile-cellular
  subscribership is increasing rapidly; the number of Internet users
  reached 253 million in 2008; a domestic satellite system with 55
  earth stations is in place
  international: country code - 86; a number of submarine cables
  provide connectivity to Asia, the Middle East, Europe, and the US;
  satellite earth stations - 7 (5 Intelsat - 4 Pacific Ocean and 1
  Indian Ocean; 1 Intersputnik - Indian Ocean region; and 1 Inmarsat -
  Pacific and Indian Ocean regions) (2007)

Christmas Island
  general assessment: service provided by the
  Australian network
  domestic: GSM mobile telephone service replaced older analog system
  in February 2005
  international: country code - 61-8; satellite earth station - 1
  (Intelsat provides telephone and telex service) (2005)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  general assessment: connected within
  Australia's telecommunication system; a local mobile-cellular
  network is in operation
  domestic: NA
  international: country code - 61; telephone, telex, and facsimile
  communications with Australia and elsewhere via satellite; satellite
  earth station - 1 (Intelsat) (2001)

Colombia
  general assessment: modern system in many respects;
  telecommunications sector liberalized during the 1990s; multiple
  providers of both fixed-line and mobile-cellular services;
  fixed-line connections stand at about 18 per 100 persons; mobile
  cellular usage is about 75 per 100 persons; competition among
  cellular service providers is resulting in falling local and
  international calling rates and contributing to the steep decline in
  the market share of fixed line services
  domestic: nationwide microwave radio relay system; domestic
  satellite system with 41 earth stations; fiber-optic network linking
  50 cities
  international: country code - 57; submarine cables provide links to
  the US, parts of the Caribbean, and Central and South America;
  satellite earth stations - 10 (6 Intelsat, 1 Inmarsat, 3 fully
  digitalized international switching centers) (2007)

Comoros
  general assessment: sparse system of microwave radio relay
  and HF radiotelephone communication stations; fixed-line connections
  only about 3 per 100 persons; mobile cellular usage about 5 per 100
  persons
  domestic: HF radiotelephone communications and microwave radio relay
  international: country code - 269; HF radiotelephone communications
  to Madagascar and Reunion

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  general assessment: inadequate;
  state-owned fixed-line operator has been unable to expand fixed-line
  connections and there are now fewer than 10,000 connections - less
  than 1 per 1000 persons; given the backdrop of a wholly inadequate
  fixed-line infrastructure, the use of cellular services has surged
  and subscribership in 2007 reached 6.6 million - 10 per 100 persons
  domestic: barely adequate wire and microwave radio relay service in
  and between urban areas; domestic satellite system with 14 earth
  stations
  international: country code - 243; satellite earth station - 1
  Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)

Congo, Republic of the
  general assessment: services barely adequate
  for government use; key exchanges are in Brazzaville, Pointe-Noire,
  and Loubomo; intercity lines frequently out of order; fixed-line
  infrastructure inadequate providing less than 1 connection per 100
  persons; in the absence of an adequate fixed line infrastructure,
  mobile-cellular subscribership has surged reaching 35 per 100 persons
  domestic: primary network consists of microwave radio relay and
  coaxial cable
  international: country code - 242; satellite earth station - 1
  Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Cook Islands
  general assessment: Telecom Cook Islands offers
  international direct dialing, Internet, email, fax, and Telex
  domestic: individual islands are connected by a combination of
  satellite earth stations, microwave systems, and VHF and HF
  radiotelephone; within the islands, service is provided by small
  exchanges connected to subscribers by open-wire, cable, and
  fiber-optic cable
  international: country code - 682; satellite earth station - 1
  Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Costa Rica
  general assessment: good domestic telephone service in
  terms of breadth of coverage; restricted cellular telephone service;
  state-run monopoly provider is struggling with the demand for new
  lines, resulting in long waiting times
  domestic: point-to-point and point-to-multi-point microwave,
  fiber-optic, and coaxial cable link rural areas; Internet service is
  available
  international: country code - 506; landing point for the Americas
  Region Caribbean Ring System (ARCOS-1) fiber-optic
  telecommunications submarine cable and the MAYA-1 submarine cable
  that provide links to South and Central America, parts of the
  Caribbean, and the US; connected to Central American Microwave
  System; satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)

Cote d'Ivoire
  general assessment: well developed by African
  standards; telecommunications sector privatized in late 1990s and
  operational fixed-lines have more than quadrupled since that time;
  with multiple cellular service providers competing in the market,
  cellular usage has increased sharply to roughly 40 per 100 persons
  domestic: open-wire lines and microwave radio relay; 90% digitalized
  international: country code - 225; landing point for the SAT-3/WASC
  fiber-optic submarine cable that provides connectivity to Europe and
  Asia; satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Atlantic Ocean and 1
  Indian Ocean) (2007)

Croatia
  general assessment: the telecommunications network has
  improved steadily since the mid-1990s; the number of fixed telephone
  lines holding steady at about 40 per 100 persons; the number of
  cellular telephone subscriptions exceeds the population
  domestic: more than 90 percent of local lines are digital
  international: country code - 385; digital international service is
  provided through the main switch in Zagreb; Croatia participates in
  the Trans-Asia-Europe (TEL) fiber-optic project, which consists of 2
  fiber-optic trunk connections with Slovenia and a fiber-optic trunk
  line from Rijeka to Split and Dubrovnik; the ADRIA-1 submarine cable
  provides connectivity to Albania and Greece (2007)

Cuba
  general assessment: greater investment beginning in 1994 and
  the establishment of a new Ministry of Information Technology and
  Communications in 2000 has resulted in improvements in the system;
  wireless service is expensive and must be paid in convertible pesos
  which effectively limits mobile cellular subscribership
  domestic: national fiber-optic system under development; 95% of
  switches digitized by end of 2006; fixed telephone line density
  remains low, at less than 10 per 100 inhabitants; domestic cellular
  service expanding but remains at only about 2 per 100 persons
  international: country code - 53; fiber-optic cable laid to but not
  linked to US network; satellite earth station - 1 Intersputnik
  (Atlantic Ocean region) (2007)

Cyprus
  general assessment: excellent in both area under government
  control and area administered by Turkish Cypriots
  domestic: open-wire, fiber-optic cable, and microwave radio relay
  international: country code - 357 (area administered by Turkish
  Cypriots uses the country code of Turkey - 90); a number of
  submarine cables, including the SEA-ME-WE-3, combine to provide
  connectivity to Western Europe, the Middle East, and Asia;
  tropospheric scatter; satellite earth stations - 8 (3 Intelsat - 1
  Atlantic Ocean and 2 Indian Ocean, 2 Eutelsat, 2 Intersputnik, and 1
  Arabsat)

Czech Republic
  general assessment: privatization and modernization
  of the Czech telecommunication system got a late start but is
  advancing steadily; access to the fixed-line telephone network
  expanded throughout the 1990s but the number of fixed line
  connections has been dropping since then; mobile telephone usage
  increased sharply beginning in the mid-1990s and the number of
  cellular telephone subscriptions now greatly exceeds the population
  domestic: virtually all exchanges now digital; existing copper
  subscriber systems enhanced with Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line
  (ADSL) equipment to accommodate Internet and other digital signals;
  trunk systems include fiber-optic cable and microwave radio relay
  international: country code - 420; satellite earth stations - 6 (2
  Intersputnik - Atlantic and Indian Ocean regions, 1 Intelsat, 1
  Eutelsat, 1 Inmarsat, 1 Globalstar) (2007)

Denmark
  general assessment: excellent telephone and telegraph
  services
  domestic: buried and submarine cables and microwave radio relay form
  trunk network, 4 cellular mobile communications systems
  international: country code - 45; a series of fiber-optic submarine
  cables link Denmark with Canada, Faroe Islands, Germany, Iceland,
  Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Russia, Sweden, and UK; satellite earth
  stations - 18 (6 Intelsat, 10 Eutelsat, 1 Orion, 1 Inmarsat
  (Blaavand-Atlantic-East)); note - the Nordic countries (Denmark,
  Finland, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden) share the Danish earth station
  and the Eik, Norway, station for worldwide Inmarsat access

Djibouti
  general assessment: telephone facilities in the city of
  Djibouti are adequate, as are the microwave radio relay connections
  to outlying areas of the country
  domestic: microwave radio relay network; mobile cellular coverage is
  primarily limited to the area in and around Djibouti city
  international: country code - 253; landing point for the SEA-ME-WE-3
  optical telecommunications submarine cable with links to Asia, the
  Middle East, and Europe; satellite earth stations - 2 (1 Intelsat -
  Indian Ocean and 1 Arabsat); Medarabtel regional microwave radio
  relay telephone network (2007)

Dominica
  general assessment: NA
  domestic: fully automatic network
  international: country code - 1-767; landing point for the East
  Caribbean Fiber Optic System (ECFS) submarine cable with links to 13
  other islands in the eastern Caribbean extending from the British
  Virgin Islands to Trinidad; microwave radio relay and SHF
  radiotelephone links to Martinique and Guadeloupe; VHF and UHF
  radiotelephone links to Saint Lucia

Dominican Republic
  general assessment: relatively efficient system
  based on island-wide microwave radio relay network
  domestic: fixed telephone line density is about 10 per 100 persons;
  multiple providers of mobile cellular service with a subscribership
  of roughly 60 per 100 persons
  international: country code - 1-809; landing point for the Americas
  Region Caribbean Ring System (ARCOS-1) fiber-optic
  telecommunications submarine cable that provides links to South and
  Central America, parts of the Caribbean, and US; satellite earth
  station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)

Ecuador
  general assessment: generally elementary but being expanded
  domestic: fixed-line services provided by three state-owned
  enterprises; plans to transfer the state-owned operators to private
  ownership have repeatedly failed; fixed-line density stands at about
  13 per 100 persons; mobile cellular use has surged and has a
  subscribership of nearly 75 per 100 persons
  international: country code - 593; landing point for the PAN-AM
  submarine telecommunications cable that provides links to the west
  coast of South America, Panama, Colombia, Venezuela, and extending
  onward to Aruba and the US Virgin Islands in the Caribbean;
  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)

Egypt
  general assessment: large system; underwent extensive
  upgrading during 1990s and is reasonably modern; Telecom Egypt, the
  landline monopoly, has been increasing service availability and in
  2007 fixed-line density stood at 14 per 100 persons; as of 2007
  there were three mobile-cellular networks and service is expanding
  rapidly
  domestic: principal centers at Alexandria, Cairo, Al Mansurah,
  Ismailia, Suez, and Tanta are connected by coaxial cable and
  microwave radio relay
  international: country code - 20; landing point for both the
  SEA-ME-WE-3 and SEA-ME-WE-4 submarine cable networks; linked to the
  international submarine cable FLAG (Fiber-Optic Link Around the
  Globe); satellite earth stations - 4 (2 Intelsat - Atlantic Ocean
  and Indian Ocean, 1 Arabsat, and 1 Inmarsat); tropospheric scatter
  to Sudan; microwave radio relay to Israel; a participant in
  Medarabtel (2007)

El Salvador
  general assessment: multiple mobile-cellular service
  providers are expanding services rapidly and in 2007 mobile-cellular
  density stood at nearly 90 per 100 persons; growth in fixed-line
  services has slowed in the face of mobile-cellular competition
  domestic: nationwide microwave radio relay system
  international: country code - 503; satellite earth station - 1
  Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean); connected to Central American Microwave
  System (2007)

Equatorial Guinea
  general assessment: digital fixed-line network in
  most major urban areas and good mobile coverage
  domestic: fixed-line density is about 2 per 100 persons;
  mobile-cellular subscribership has been increasing and in 2007 stood
  at about 40 percent of the population
  international: country code - 240; international communications from
  Bata and Malabo to African and European countries; satellite earth
  station - 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean) (2007)

Eritrea
  general assessment: inadequate; combined fixed-line and
  mobile cellular subscribership is only about 2 per 100 persons
  domestic: inadequate; most telephones are in Asmara; government is
  seeking international tenders to improve the system (2002)
  international: country code - 291; note - international connections
  exist

Estonia
  general assessment: foreign investment in the form of joint
  business ventures greatly improved telephone service; substantial
  fiber-optic cable systems carry telephone, TV, and radio traffic in
  the digital mode; Internet services are widely available; schools
  and libraries are connected to the Internet, a large percentage of
  the population files income-tax returns online, and online voting
  was used for the first time in the 2005 local elections
  domestic: a wide range of high quality voice, data, and Internet
  services is available throughout the country
  international: country code - 372; fiber-optic cables to Finland,
  Sweden, Latvia, and Russia provide worldwide packet-switched
  service; 2 international switches are located in Tallinn (2001)

Ethiopia
  general assessment: inadequate telephone system; the number
  of fixed lines and mobile telephones is increasing from a very small
  base; combined fixed and mobile-cellular teledensity is only about 2
  per 100 persons
  domestic: open-wire; microwave radio relay; radio communication in
  the HF, VHF, and UHF frequencies; 2 domestic satellites provide the
  national trunk service
  international: country code - 251; open-wire to Sudan and Djibouti;
  microwave radio relay to Kenya and Djibouti; satellite earth
  stations - 3 Intelsat (1 Atlantic Ocean and 2 Pacific Ocean)

European Union
  note - see individual country entries of member states

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  general assessment: NA
  domestic: government-operated radiotelephone and private VHF/CB
  radiotelephone networks provide effective service to almost all
  points on both islands
  international: country code - 500; satellite earth station - 1
  Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) with links through London to other
  countries

Faroe Islands
  general assessment: good international communications;
  good domestic facilities
  domestic: digitalization was completed in 1998; both NMT (analog)
  and GSM (digital) mobile telephone systems are installed
  international: country code - 298; satellite earth stations - 1
  Orion; 1 fiber-optic submarine cable to the Shetland Islands,
  linking the Faroe Islands with Denmark and Iceland; fiber-optic
  submarine cable connection to Canada-Europe cable

Fiji
  general assessment: modern local, interisland, and
  international (wire/radio integrated) public and special-purpose
  telephone, telegraph, and teleprinter facilities; regional radio
  communications center
  domestic: telephone or radio telephone links to almost all inhabited
  islands; most towns and large villages have automatic telephone
  exchanges and direct dialing; combined fixed and mobile-cellular
  density is about 60 per 100 persons
  international: country code - 679; access to important cable links
  between US and Canada as well as between NZ and Australia; satellite
  earth stations - 2 Inmarsat (Pacific Ocean) (2007)

Finland
  general assessment: modern system with excellent service
  domestic: digital fiber-optic fixed-line network and an extensive
  cellular network provide domestic needs
  international: country code - 358; submarine cables provide links to
  Estonia and Sweden; satellite earth stations - access to Intelsat
  transmission service via a Swedish satellite earth station, 1
  Inmarsat (Atlantic and Indian Ocean regions); note - Finland shares
  the Inmarsat earth station with the other Nordic countries (Denmark,
  Iceland, Norway, and Sweden)

France
  general assessment: highly developed
  domestic: extensive cable and microwave radio relay; extensive
  introduction of fiber-optic cable; domestic satellite system
  international: country code - 33; numerous submarine cables provide
  links throughout Europe, Asia, Australia, the Middle East, and US;
  satellite earth stations - more than 3 (2 Intelsat (with total of 5
  antennas - 2 for Indian Ocean and 3 for Atlantic Ocean), NA
  Eutelsat, 1 Inmarsat - Atlantic Ocean region); HF radiotelephone
  communications with more than 20 countries
  overseas departments: country codes: French Guiana - 594; Guadeloupe
  - 590; Martinique - 596; Reunion - 262

French Polynesia
  general assessment: NA
  domestic: NA
  international: country code - 689; satellite earth station - 1
  Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Gabon
  general assessment: adequate service by African standards and
  improving with the help of a growing mobile cell network system with
  multiple providers; mobile-cellular subscribership reached 80 per
  100 persons in 2007
  domestic: adequate system of cable, microwave radio relay,
  tropospheric scatter, radiotelephone communication stations, and a
  domestic satellite system with 12 earth stations
  international: country code - 241; landing point for the SAT-3/WASC
  fiber-optic submarine cable that provides connectivity to Europe and
  Asia; satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)

Gambia, The
  general assessment: adequate; a packet switched data
  network is available; two mobile-cellular service providers
  domestic: adequate network of microwave radio relay and open-wire;
  combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity reached 50
  telephones per 100 persons in 2007
  international: country code - 220; microwave radio relay links to
  Senegal and Guinea-Bissau; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat
  (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)

Gaza Strip
  general assessment: NA
  domestic: Israeli company BEZEK and the Palestinian company PALTEL
  are responsible for fixed line services; the Palestinian JAWAL
  company provides cellular services
  international: country code - 970 (2004)

Georgia
  general assessment: fixed-line telecommunications network
  has only limited coverage outside Tbilisi; multiple mobile-cellular
  providers provide services to an increasing subscribership
  throughout the country
  domestic: cellular telephone networks now cover the entire country;
  urban telephone density is about 20 per 100 people; rural telephone
  density is about 4 per 100 people; intercity facilities include a
  fiber-optic line between T'bilisi and K'ut'aisi; nationwide pager
  service is available
  international: country code - 995; the Georgia-Russia fiber optic
  submarine cable provides connectivity to Russia; international
  service is available by microwave, landline, and satellite through
  the Moscow switch; international electronic mail and telex service
  are available

Germany
  general assessment: Germany has one of the world's most
  technologically advanced telecommunications systems; as a result of
  intensive capital expenditures since reunification, the formerly
  backward system of the eastern part of the country, dating back to
  World War II, has been modernized and integrated with that of the
  western part
  domestic: Germany is served by an extensive system of automatic
  telephone exchanges connected by modern networks of fiber-optic
  cable, coaxial cable, microwave radio relay, and a domestic
  satellite system; cellular telephone service is widely available,
  expanding rapidly, and includes roaming service to many foreign
  countries
  international: country code - 49; Germany's international service is
  excellent worldwide, consisting of extensive land and undersea cable
  facilities as well as earth stations in the Inmarsat, Intelsat,
  Eutelsat, and Intersputnik satellite systems (2001)

Ghana
  general assessment: outdated and unreliable fixed-line
  infrastructure heavily concentrated in Accra; competition among
  multiple mobile-cellular providers has spurred growth with
  subscribership about 35 per 100 persons and rising
  domestic: primarily microwave radio relay; wireless local loop has
  been installed
  international: country code - 233; landing point for the SAT-3/WASC
  fiber-optic submarine cable that provides connectivity to Europe and
  Asia; satellite earth stations - 4 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean);
  microwave radio relay link to Panaftel system connects Ghana to its
  neighbors (2007)

Gibraltar
  general assessment: adequate, automatic domestic system
  and adequate international facilities
  domestic: automatic exchange facilities
  international: country code - 350; radiotelephone; microwave radio
  relay; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Greece
  general assessment: adequate, modern networks reach all
  areas; good mobile telephone and international service
  domestic: microwave radio relay trunk system; extensive open-wire
  connections; submarine cable to offshore islands
  international: country code - 30; landing point for the SEA-ME-WE-3
  optical telecommunications submarine cable that provides links to
  Europe, Middle East, and Asia; a number of smaller submarine cables
  provide connectivity to various parts of Europe, the Middle East,
  and Cyprus; tropospheric scatter; satellite earth stations - 4 (2
  Intelsat - 1 Atlantic Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean, 1 Eutelsat, and 1
  Inmarsat - Indian Ocean region)

Greenland
  general assessment: adequate domestic and international
  service provided by satellite, cables and microwave radio relay;
  totally digitalized in 1995
  domestic: microwave radio relay and satellite
  international: country code - 299; satellite earth stations - 15 (12
  Intelsat, 1 Eutelsat, 2 Americom GE-2 (all Atlantic Ocean)) (2000)

Grenada
  general assessment: automatic, islandwide telephone system
  domestic: interisland VHF and UHF radiotelephone links
  international: country code - 1-473; landing point for the East
  Caribbean Fiber Optic System (ECFS) submarine cable with links to 13
  other islands in the eastern Caribbean extending from the British
  Virgin Islands to Trinidad; SHF radiotelephone links to Trinidad and
  Tobago and Saint Vincent; VHF and UHF radio links to Trinidad

Guam
  general assessment: modern system, integrated with US
  facilities for direct dialing, including free use of 800 numbers
  domestic: modern digital system, including cellular mobile service
  and local access to the Internet
  international: country code - 1-671; major landing point for
  submarine cables between Asia and the US (Guam is a trans-Pacific
  communications hub for major carriers linking the US and Asia);
  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Guatemala
  general assessment: fairly modern network centered in the
  city of Guatemala
  domestic: state-owned telecommunications company privatized in the
  late 1990s opening the way for competition; fixed-line teledensity
  11 per 100 persons; mobile-cellular teledensity 80 per 100 persons
  international: country code - 502; landing point for both the
  Americas Region Caribbean Ring System (ARCOS-1) and the SAM-1 fiber
  optic submarine cable system that together provide connectivity to
  South and Central America, parts of the Caribbean, and the US;
  connected to Central American Microwave System; satellite earth
  station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Guernsey
  general assessment: NA
  domestic: NA
  international: 1 submarine cable

Guinea
  general assessment: inadequate system of open-wire lines,
  small radiotelephone communication stations, and new microwave radio
  relay system
  domestic: Conakry reasonably well served; coverage elsewhere remains
  inadequate and large companies tend to rely on their own systems for
  nationwide links; combined fixed and mobile-cellular teledensity is
  about 2 per 100 persons
  international: country code - 224; satellite earth station - 1
  Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Guinea-Bissau
  general assessment: small system
  domestic: combination of microwave radio relay, open-wire lines,
  radiotelephone, and cellular communications; fixed-line teledensity
  less than 1 per 100 persons; mobile-cellular teledensity reached 20
  per 100 in 2007
  international: country code - 245

Guyana
  general assessment: fair system for long-distance service
  domestic: microwave radio relay network for trunk lines; fixed-line
  teledensity is about 15 per 100 persons; many areas still lack
  fixed-line telephone services; mobile-cellular teledensity reached
  37 per 100 persons in 2005
  international: country code - 592; tropospheric scatter to Trinidad;
  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Haiti
  general assessment: domestic facilities barely adequate;
  international facilities slightly better; telephone density in Haiti
  remains the lowest in the Latin American and Caribbean region
  domestic: coaxial cable and microwave radio relay trunk service;
  combined fixed and mobile-cellular teledensity is about 25 per 100
  persons
  international: country code - 509; satellite earth station - 1
  Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Holy See (Vatican City)
  general assessment: automatic digital
  exchange
  domestic: connected via fiber optic cable to Telecom Italia network
  international: country code - 39; uses Italian system

Honduras
  general assessment: inadequate system
  domestic: beginning in 2003, private sub-operators allowed to
  provide fixed-lines in order to expand telephone coverage;
  fixed-line teledensity has increased to about 10 per 100 persons;
  mobile-cellular telephone service has been increasing rapidly and
  subscribership in 2006 exceeded 30 per 100 persons
  international: country code - 504; landing point for both the
  Americas Region Caribbean Ring System (ARCOS-1) and the MAYA-1 fiber
  optic submarine cable system that together provide connectivity to
  South and Central America, parts of the Caribbean, and the US;
  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean); connected to
  Central American Microwave System

Hong Kong
  general assessment: modern facilities provide excellent
  domestic and international services
  domestic: microwave radio relay links and extensive fiber-optic
  network
  international: country code - 852; multiple international submarine
  cables provide connections to Asia, US, Australia, the Middle East,
  and Western Europe; satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (1 Pacific
  Ocean and 2 Indian Ocean); coaxial cable to Guangzhou, China

Hungary
  general assessment: the telephone system has been modernized
  and is capable of satisfying all requests for telecommunication
  service
  domestic: the system is digitalized and highly automated; trunk
  services are carried by fiber-optic cable and digital microwave
  radio relay; a program for fiber-optic subscriber connections was
  initiated in 1996; competition among mobile-cellular service
  providers has led to a sharp increase in the use of mobile cellular
  phones since 2000 and a decrease in the number of fixed-line
  connections
  international: country code - 36; Hungary has fiber-optic cable
  connections with all neighboring countries; the international switch
  is in Budapest; satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic
  Ocean and Indian Ocean regions), 1 Inmarsat, 1 very small aperture
  terminal (VSAT) system of ground terminals

Iceland
  general assessment: telecommunications infrastructure is
  modern and fully digitized, with satellite-earth stations,
  fiber-optic cables, and an extensive broadband network
  domestic: liberalization of the telecommunications sector beginning
  in the late 1990s has led to increased competition especially in the
  mobile services segment of the market
  international: country code - 354; the CANTAT-3 and FARICE-1
  submarine cable systems provide connectivity to Canada, the Faroe
  Islands, UK, Denmark, and Germany; a planned new section of the
  Hibernia-Atlantic submarine cable will provide additional
  connectivity to Canada, US, and Ireland; satellite earth stations -
  2 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean), 1 Inmarsat (Atlantic and Indian Ocean
  regions); note - Iceland shares the Inmarsat earth station with the
  other Nordic countries (Denmark, Finland, Norway, and Sweden)

India
  general assessment: recent deregulation and liberalization of
  telecommunications laws and policies have prompted rapid growth;
  local and long distance service provided throughout all regions of
  the country, with services primarily concentrated in the urban
  areas; steady improvement is taking place with the recent admission
  of private and private-public investors, but combined fixed and
  mobile telephone density remains low at about 30 for each 100
  persons nationwide and much lower for persons in rural areas; rapid
  growth in cellular service with modest declines in fixed lines
  domestic: mobile cellular service introduced in 1994 and organized
  nationwide into four metropolitan areas and 19 telecom circles each
  with about three private service providers and one state-owned
  service provider; in recent years significant trunk capacity added
  in the form of fiber-optic cable and one of the world's largest
  domestic satellite systems, the Indian National Satellite system
  (INSAT), with 6 satellites supporting 33,000 very small aperture
  terminals (VSAT)
  international: country code - 91; a number of major international
  submarine cable systems, including Sea-Me-We-3 with landing sites at
  Cochin and Mumbai (Bombay), Sea-Me-We-4 with a landing site at
  Chennai, Fiber-Optic Link Around the Globe (FLAG) with a landing
  site at Mumbai (Bombay), South Africa - Far East (SAFE) with a
  landing site at Cochin, the i2i cable network linking to Singapore
  with landing sites at Mumbai (Bombay) and Chennai (Madras), and Tata
  Indicom linking Singapore and Chennai (Madras), provide a
  significant increase in the bandwidth available for both voice and
  data traffic; satellite earth stations - 8 Intelsat (Indian Ocean)
  and 1 Inmarsat (Indian Ocean region); 9 gateway exchanges operating
  from Mumbai (Bombay), New Delhi, Kolkata (Calcutta), Chennai
  (Madras), Jalandhar, Kanpur, Gandhinagar, Hyderabad, and Ernakulam
  (2008)

Indonesia
  general assessment: domestic service fair, international
  service good
  domestic: interisland microwave system and HF radio police net;
  domestic satellite communications system; coverage provided by
  existing network has been expanded by use of over 200,000 telephone
  kiosks many located in remote areas; mobile cellular subscribership
  growing rapidly
  international: country code - 62; landing point for both the
  SEA-ME-WE-3 and SEA-ME-WE-4 submarine cable networks that provide
  links throughout Asia, the Middle East, and Europe; satellite earth
  stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Indian Ocean and 1 Pacific Ocean)

Iran
  general assessment: currently being modernized and expanded
  with the goal of not only improving the efficiency and increasing
  the volume of the urban service but also bringing telephone service
  to several thousand villages, not presently connected
  domestic: the addition of new fiber cables and modern switching and
  exchange systems installed by Iran's state-owned telecom company
  have improved and expanded the main line network greatly; main line
  availability has more than doubled to nearly 24 million lines since
  2000; additionally, mobile service has increased dramatically
  serving nearly 30 million subscribers in 2007
  international: country code - 98; submarine fiber-optic cable to UAE
  with access to Fiber-Optic Link Around the Globe (FLAG);
  Trans-Asia-Europe (TAE) fiber-optic line runs from Azerbaijan
  through the northern portion of Iran to Turkmenistan with expansion
  to Georgia and Azerbaijan; HF radio and microwave radio relay to
  Turkey, Azerbaijan, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Turkmenistan, Syria,
  Kuwait, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan; satellite earth stations - 13 (9
  Intelsat and 4 Inmarsat) (2007)

Iraq
  general assessment: the 2003 liberation of Iraq severely
  disrupted telecommunications throughout Iraq including international
  connections; widespread government efforts to rebuild domestic and
  international communications through fiber optic links are in
  progress; the mobile cellular market has expanded rapidly with an
  estimated 14 million current users in 2007
  domestic: repairs to switches and lines destroyed during 2003
  continue; additional switching capacity is improving access;
  cellular service is available and centered on 3 GSM networks which
  are being expanded beyond their regional roots, improving
  country-wide connectivity; wireless local loop licenses have been
  issued with the hope of overcoming the lack of fixed-line
  infrastructure
  international: country code - 964; satellite earth stations - 4 (2
  Intelsat - 1 Atlantic Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean, 1 Intersputnik -
  Atlantic Ocean region, and 1 Arabsat (inoperative)); local microwave
  radio relay connects border regions to Jordan, Kuwait, Syria, and
  Turkey; planned international fiber-optic connections to Iran
  (terrestrial) with a link to the Fiber-Optic Link Around the Globe
  (FLAG) submarine fiber-optic cable (2007)

Ireland
  general assessment: modern digital system using cable and
  microwave radio relay
  domestic: microwave radio relay
  international: country code - 353; landing point for the
  Hibernia-Atlantic submarine cable with links to the US, Canada, and
  UK; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Isle of Man
  general assessment: NA
  domestic: landline, telefax, mobile cellular telephone system
  international: fiber-optic cable, microwave radio relay, satellite
  earth station, submarine cable

Israel
  general assessment: most highly developed system in the
  Middle East although not the largest
  domestic: good system of coaxial cable and microwave radio relay;
  all systems are digital; four privately-owned mobile-cellular
  service providers with countrywide coverage; mobile-cellular
  teledensity is 140 per 100 persons
  international: country code - 972; submarine cables provide links to
  Europe, Cyprus, and parts of the Middle East; satellite earth
  stations - 3 Intelsat (2 Atlantic Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean) (2007)

Italy
  general assessment: modern, well developed, fast; fully
  automated telephone, telex, and data services
  domestic: high-capacity cable and microwave radio relay trunks
  international: country code - 39; a series of submarine cables
  provide links to Asia, Middle East, Europe, North Africa, and US;
  satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (with a total of 5 antennas -
  3 for Atlantic Ocean and 2 for Indian Ocean), 1 Inmarsat (Atlantic
  Ocean region), and NA Eutelsat

Jamaica
  general assessment: fully automatic domestic telephone
  network
  domestic: the 1999 agreement to open the market for
  telecommunications services resulted in rapid growth in
  mobile-cellular telephone usage while the number of fixed-lines in
  use has declined; combined mobile-cellular teledensity now exceeds
  100 per 100 persons
  international: country code - 1-876; the Fibralink submarine cable
  network provides enhanced delivery of business and broadband traffic
  and is linked to the Americas Region Caribbean Ring System (ARCOS-1)
  submarine cable in the Dominican Republic; the link to ARCOS-1
  provides seamless connectivity to US, parts of the Caribbean,
  Central America, and South America; satellite earth stations - 2
  Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2006)

Japan
  general assessment: excellent domestic and international
  service
  domestic: high level of modern technology and excellent service of
  every kind
  international: country code - 81; numerous submarine cables provide
  links throughout Asia, Australia, the Middle East, Europe, and US;
  satellite earth stations - 5 Intelsat (4 Pacific Ocean and 1 Indian
  Ocean), 1 Intersputnik (Indian Ocean region), and 1 Inmarsat
  (Pacific and Indian Ocean regions

Jersey
  general assessment: NA
  domestic: NA
  international: submarine cable connectivity to Guernsey and UK

Jordan
  general assessment: service has improved recently with
  increased use of digital switching equipment; microwave radio relay
  transmission and coaxial and fiber-optic cable are employed on trunk
  lines; growing mobile-cellular usage in both urban and rural areas
  is reducing use of fixed-line services; Internet penetration remains
  modest and slow-growing
  domestic: 1995 telecommunications law opened all non-fixed-line
  services to private competition; in 2005, monopoly over fixed-line
  services terminated and the entire telecommunications sector was
  opened to competition; mobile-cellular usage is increasing rapidly
  and teledensity reached 80 per 100 persons in 2007
  international: country code - 962; landing point for the Fiber-Optic
  Link Around the Globe (FLAG) submarine cable network that provides
  links to Asia, Middle East, Europe; satellite earth stations - 33 (3
  Intelsat, 1 Arabsat, and 29 land and maritime Inmarsat terminals);
  fiber-optic cable to Saudi Arabia and microwave radio relay link
  with Egypt and Syria; participant in Medarabtel (2007)

Kazakhstan
  general assessment: inherited an outdated
  telecommunications network from the Soviet era requiring
  modernization
  domestic: intercity by landline and microwave radio relay; number of
  fixed-line connections is gradually increasing and fixed-line
  teledensity is about 20 per 100 persons; mobile-cellular usage is
  increasing rapidly and subscriptions now exceed 80 per 100 persons
  international: country code - 7; international traffic with other
  former Soviet republics and China carried by landline and microwave
  radio relay and with other countries by satellite and by the
  Trans-Asia-Europe (TAE) fiber-optic cable; satellite earth stations
  - 2 Intelsat (2007)

Kenya
  general assessment: inadequate; fixed-line telephone system is
  small and inefficient; trunks are primarily microwave radio relay;
  business data commonly transferred by a very small aperture terminal
  (VSAT) system
  domestic: no recent growth in fixed-line infrastructure and the sole
  provider, Telkom Kenya, is slated for privatization; multiple
  providers in the mobile-cellular segment of the market fostering a
  boom in mobile-cellular telephone usage
  international: country code - 254; satellite earth stations - 4
  Intelsat

Kiribati
  general assessment: generally good quality national and
  international service
  domestic: wire line service available on Tarawa and Kiritimati
  (Christmas Island); connections to outer islands by HF/VHF
  radiotelephone; wireless service available in Tarawa since 1999
  international: country code - 686; Kiribati is being linked to the
  Pacific Ocean Cooperative Telecommunications Network, which should
  improve telephone service; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat
  (Pacific Ocean)

Korea, North
  general assessment: inadequate system; currently no
  mobile cellular telephone services
  domestic: fiber-optic links installed between cities; telephone
  directories unavailable; mobile cellular service, initiated in 2002,
  terminated in 2004; in January 2008 Orascom Telecom, an Egyptian
  company, announced that it had been granted a commercial license to
  provide mobile telephone services in North Korea
  international: country code - 850; satellite earth stations - 2 (1
  Intelsat - Indian Ocean, 1 Russian - Indian Ocean region); other
  international connections through Moscow and Beijing (2008)

Korea, South
  general assessment: excellent domestic and
  international services featuring rapid incorporation of new
  technologies
  domestic: combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular telephone
  subscribership exceeds 140 per 100 persons; rapid assimilation of a
  full range of telecommunications technologies leading to a boom in
  e-commerce
  international: country code - 82; numerous submarine cables provide
  links throughout Asia, Australia, the Middle East, Europe, and US;
  satellite earth stations - 6 (3 Intelsat - 1 Pacific Ocean and 2
  Indian Ocean; 3 Inmarsat - 1 Pacific Ocean and 2 Indian Ocean)

Kuwait
  general assessment: the quality of service is excellent
  domestic: new telephone exchanges provide a large capacity for new
  subscribers; trunk traffic is carried by microwave radio relay,
  coaxial cable, and open-wire and fiber-optic cable; a cellular
  telephone system operates throughout Kuwait, and the country is well
  supplied with pay telephones
  international: country code - 965; linked to international submarine
  cable Fiber-Optic Link Around the Globe (FLAG); linked to Bahrain,
  Qatar, UAE via the Fiber-Optic Gulf (FOG) cable; coaxial cable and
  microwave radio relay to Saudi Arabia; satellite earth stations - 6
  (3 Intelsat - 1 Atlantic Ocean and 2 Indian Ocean, 1 Inmarsat -
  Atlantic Ocean, and 2 Arabsat)

Kyrgyzstan
  general assessment: telecommunications infrastructure is
  growing; fixed line penetration remains low and concentrated in
  urban areas
  domestic: multiple mobile cellular service providers with growing
  coverage; mobile cellular subscribership reached 40 per 100 persons
  in 2007
  international: country code - 996; connections with other CIS
  countries by landline or microwave radio relay and with other
  countries by leased connections with Moscow international gateway
  switch and by satellite; satellite earth stations - 2 (1
  Intersputnik, 1 Intelsat); connected internationally by the
  Trans-Asia-Europe (TAE) fiber-optic line (2007)

Laos
  general assessment: service to general public is poor but
  improving; the government relies on a radiotelephone network to
  communicate with remote areas
  domestic: multiple service providers; mobile cellular usage growing
  rapidly; combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular subscribership
  about 25 per 100 persons
  international: country code - 856; satellite earth station - 1
  Intersputnik (Indian Ocean region) (2007)

Latvia
  general assessment: recent efforts focused on bringing
  competition to the telecommunications sector; the number of fixed
  lines is decreasing as wireless telephone service expands
  domestic: number of telecommunications operators has grown rapidly
  since the fixed-line market opened to competition in 2003; combined
  fixed-line and mobile-cellular subscribership is roughly 125 per 100
  persons
  international: country code - 371; the Latvian network is now
  connected via fiber optic cable to Estonia, Finland, and Sweden
  (2007)

Lebanon
  general assessment: repair of the telecommunications system,
  severely damaged during the civil war, now complete
  domestic: two wireless networks provide good service; political
  instability hampers privatization and deployment of new
  technologies; combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular subscribership
  50 per 100 persons
  international: country code - 961; submarine cable link to Cyprus;
  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Indian Ocean and 1 Atlantic
  Ocean); coaxial cable to Syria (2007)

Lesotho
  general assessment: rudimentary system consisting of a
  modest but growing number of landlines, a small microwave radio
  relay system, and a small radiotelephone communication system;
  mobile-cellular telephone system is expanding
  domestic: privatized in 2001, Telecom Lesotho tasked with providing
  an additional 50,000 fixed-line connections within five years, a
  target not met; mobile-cellular service is expanding with a
  subscribership approaching 25 per 100 persons; rural services are
  scant
  international: country code - 266; satellite earth station - 1
  Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)

Liberia
  general assessment: the limited services available are found
  almost exclusively in the capital Monrovia; coverage extended to a
  number of other towns and rural areas by four mobile-cellular
  network operators
  domestic: fixed line service stagnant and extremely limited;
  mobile-cellular subscription base growing and teledensity
  approaching 20 per 100 persons
  international: country code - 231; satellite earth station - 1
  Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)

Libya
  general assessment: telecommunications system is being
  modernized; mobile cellular telephone system became operational in
  1996; combined fixed line and mobile telephone density approached 90
  telephones per 100 persons in 2007
  domestic: microwave radio relay, coaxial cable, cellular,
  tropospheric scatter, and a domestic satellite system with 14 earth
  stations
  international: country code - 218; satellite earth stations - 4
  Intelsat, NA Arabsat, and NA Intersputnik; submarine cables to
  France and Italy; microwave radio relay to Tunisia and Egypt;
  tropospheric scatter to Greece; participant in Medarabtel (2007)

Liechtenstein
  general assessment: automatic telephone system
  domestic: NA
  international: country code - 423; linked to Swiss networks by cable
  and microwave radio relay

Lithuania
  general assessment: adequate; being modernized to provide
  improved international capability and better residential access
  domestic: rapid expansion of mobile-cellular services has resulted
  in a steady decline in the number of main line subscriptions;
  mobile-cellular teledensity has increased to about 135 per 100
  persons while fixed-line teledensity has dropped to 22 per 100
  persons
  international: country code - 370; major international connections
  to Denmark, Sweden, and Norway by submarine cable for further
  transmission by satellite; landline connections to Latvia and Poland
  (2007)

Luxembourg
  general assessment: highly developed, completely
  automated and efficient system, mainly buried cables
  domestic: fixed line teledensity over 50 per 100 persons; nationwide
  cellular telephone system with market for mobile-cellular phones
  virtually saturated
  international: country code - 352 (2007)

Macau
  general assessment: fairly modern communication facilities
  maintained for domestic and international services
  domestic: termination of monopoly over mobile-cellular telephone
  services in 2001 spurred sharp increase in subscriptions with
  mobile-cellular teledensity approaching 190 per 100 persons in 2008;
  fixed-line subscribership appears to have peaked and is now in
  decline
  international: country code - 853; landing point for the SEA-ME-WE-3
  submarine cable network that provides links to Asia, the Middle
  East, and Europe; HF radiotelephone communication facility;
  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean) (2008)

Macedonia
  general assessment: competition from the mobile-cellular
  segment of the telecommunications market has led to a drop in
  fixed-line telephone subscriptions
  domestic: combined fixed line and mobile telephone density
  approaching 100 per 100 persons
  international: country code - 389 (2007)

Madagascar
  general assessment: system is above average for the
  region; Antananarivo's main telephone exchange modernized in the
  late 1990s, but the rest of the analogue-based telephone system is
  poorly developed; have added more than 50,000 new fixed lines since
  2005
  domestic: combined fixed-line and mobile telephone density only
  about 12 per 100 persons
  international: country code - 261; submarine cable to Bahrain;
  satellite earth stations - 2 (1 Intelsat - Indian Ocean, 1
  Intersputnik - Atlantic Ocean region) (2007)

Malawi
  general assessment: rudimentary
  domestic: fixed-line subscribership about 1 per 100 persons;
  privatization of Malawi Telecommunications (MTL), a necessary step
  in bringing improvement to telecommunications services, completed in
  2006; mobile-cellular services are expanding but cellular network
  coverage is limited and is based around the main urban areas; mobile
  cellular subscribership roughly 8 per 100 persons
  international: country code - 265; satellite earth stations - 2
  Intelsat (1 Indian Ocean, 1 Atlantic Ocean)

Malaysia
  general assessment: modern system; international service
  excellent
  domestic: good intercity service provided on Peninsular Malaysia
  mainly by microwave radio relay; adequate intercity microwave radio
  relay network between Sabah and Sarawak via Brunei; domestic
  satellite system with 2 earth stations; combined fixed-line and
  mobile cellular teledensity exceeds 110 per 100 persons
  international: country code - 60; landing point for several major
  international submarine cable networks that provide connectivity to
  Asia, Middle East, and Europe; satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat
  (1 Indian Ocean, 1 Pacific Ocean) (2007)

Maldives
  general assessment: telephone services have improved; each
  island now has at least 1 public telephone, and there are mobile
  cellular networks with a rapidly expanding subscribership
  approaching 90 per 100 persons
  domestic: interatoll communication through microwave links; all
  inhabited islands and resorts are connected with telephone and fax
  service
  international: country code - 960; linked to international submarine
  cable Fiber-Optic Link Around the Globe (FLAG); satellite earth
  station - 3 Intelsat (Indian Ocean) (2007)

Mali
  general assessment: domestic system unreliable but improving;
  provides only minimal service
  domestic: fixed-line availability is gradually increasing, but
  subscribership remains less than 1 per 100 persons; increasing use
  of local radio loops to extend network coverage to remote areas;
  mobile-cellular subscribership has increased sharply to 20 per 100
  persons
  international: country code - 223; satellite earth stations - 2
  Intelsat (1 Atlantic Ocean, 1 Indian Ocean) (2007)

Malta
  general assessment: automatic system satisfies normal
  requirements; fixed-line teledensity 50 per 100 persons;
  mobile-cellular teledensity about 90 per 100 persons
  domestic: submarine cable and microwave radio relay between islands
  international: country code - 356; submarine cable connects to
  Italy; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)

Marshall Islands
  general assessment: digital switching equipment;
  modern services include telex, cellular, Internet, international
  calling, caller ID, and leased data circuits
  domestic: Majuro Atoll and Ebeye and Kwajalein islands have regular,
  seven-digit, direct-dial telephones; other islands interconnected by
  high frequency radiotelephone (used mostly for government purposes)
  and mini-satellite telephones
  international: country code - 692; satellite earth stations - 2
  Intelsat (Pacific Ocean); US Government satellite communications
  system on Kwajalein (2005)

Mauritania
  general assessment: limited system of cable and open-wire
  lines, minor microwave radio relay links, and radiotelephone
  communications stations; mobile-cellular services expanding rapidly
  domestic: Mauritel, the national telecommunications company, was
  privatized in 2001 but remains the monopoly provider of fixed-line
  services; fixed-line teledensity 1 per 100 persons; mobile-cellular
  network coverage extends mainly to urban areas with a teledensity
  approaching 40 per 100 persons; mostly cable and open-wire lines; a
  domestic satellite telecommunications system links Nouakchott with
  regional capitals
  international: country code - 222; satellite earth stations - 3 (1
  Intelsat - Atlantic Ocean, 2 Arabsat)

Mauritius
  general assessment: small system with good service
  domestic: monopoly over fixed-line services terminated in 2005;
  fixed-line teledensity roughly 30 per 100 persons; mobile-cellular
  services launched in 1989 with teledensity in 2007 reaching 75 per
  100 persons
  international: country code - 230; landing point for the SAFE
  submarine cable that provides links to Asia and South Africa where
  it connects to the SAT-3/WASC submarine cable that provides further
  links to parts of East Africa, and Europe; satellite earth station -
  1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean); new microwave link to Reunion; HF
  radiotelephone links to several countries

Mayotte
  general assessment: small system administered by French
  Department of Posts and Telecommunications
  domestic: NA
  international: country code - 262; microwave radio relay and HF
  radiotelephone communications to Comoros

Mexico
  general assessment: adequate telephone service for business
  and government, but the population is poorly served; mobile
  subscribers far outnumber fixed-line subscribers; domestic satellite
  system with 120 earth stations; extensive microwave radio relay
  network; considerable use of fiber-optic cable and coaxial cable
  domestic: low telephone density with about 18 fixed lines per 100
  persons; privatized in December 1990; despite the opening to
  competition in January 1997, Telmex remains dominant; legal
  challenges to Telmex's alleged anti-competitive behavior in the
  mobile and fixed-line markets culminated in a World Trade
  Organization ruling in 2004 against Mexico prompting some
  strengthening of the powers granted Mexico's telecom regulator;
  mobile cellular teledensity approaching 65 per 100 persons
  international: country code - 52; Columbus-2 fiber-optic submarine
  cable with access to the US, Virgin Islands, Canary Islands, Spain,
  and Italy; the Americas Region Caribbean Ring System (ARCOS-1) and
  the MAYA-1 submarine cable system together provide access to Central
  America, parts of South America and the Caribbean, and the US;
  satellite earth stations - 120 (32 Intelsat, 2 Solidaridad (giving
  Mexico improved access to South America, Central America, and much
  of the US as well as enhancing domestic communications), 1 Panamsat,
  numerous Inmarsat mobile earth stations); linked to Central American
  Microwave System of trunk connections (2007)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  general assessment: adequate system
  domestic: islands interconnected by shortwave radiotelephone (used
  mostly for government purposes), satellite (Intelsat) ground
  stations, and some coaxial and fiber-optic cable; cellular service
  available on Kosrae, Pohnpei, and Yap
  international: country code - 691; satellite earth stations - 5
  Intelsat (Pacific Ocean) (2002)

Moldova
  general assessment: inadequate, outmoded, poor service
  outside Chisinau; some modernization is under way
  domestic: depending on location, new subscribers may face long wait
  for service; multiple private operators of GSM mobile-cellular
  telephone service are operating; GPRS system is being introduced; a
  CDMA mobile telephone network began operations in 2007; combined
  fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity approaching 70 per 100
  persons
  international: country code - 373; service through Romania and
  Russia via landline; satellite earth stations - at least 3
  (Intelsat, Eutelsat, and Intersputnik) (2007)

Monaco
  general assessment: modern automatic telephone system
  domestic: NA
  international: country code - 377; no satellite earth stations;
  connected by cable into the French communications system

Mongolia
  general assessment: network is improving with international
  direct dialing available in many areas
  domestic: very low fixed-line density; there are multiple mobile
  cellular service providers and subscribership is increasing rapidly;
  a fiber-optic network is also being installed that will improve
  broadband and communication services between major urban centers
  international: country code - 976; satellite earth stations - 7

Montenegro
  general assessment: modern telecommunications system with
  access to European satellites
  domestic: GSM wireless service, available through 2 providers with
  national coverage, is growing rapidly
  international: country code - 382; 2 international switches connect
  the national system

Montserrat
  general assessment: modern and fully digitalized
  domestic: NA
  international: country code - 1-664; landing point for the East
  Caribbean Fiber System (ECFS) optic submarine cable with links to 13
  other islands in the eastern Caribbean extending from the British
  Virgin Islands to Trinidad

Morocco
  general assessment: modern system with all important
  capabilities; however, density is low with only 7 fixed lines
  available for each 100 persons; mobile-cellular subscribership is
  approaching 60 per 100 persons
  domestic: good system composed of open-wire lines, cables, and
  microwave radio relay links; Internet available but expensive;
  principal switching centers are Casablanca and Rabat; national
  network nearly 100% digital using fiber-optic links; improved rural
  service employs microwave radio relay
  international: country code - 212; landing point for the SEA-ME-WE-3
  optical telecommunications submarine cable that provides
  connectivity to Asia, the Middle East, and Europe; satellite earth
  stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) and 1 Arabsat; microwave
  radio relay to Gibraltar, Spain, and Western Sahara; coaxial cable
  and microwave radio relay to Algeria; participant in Medarabtel;
  fiber-optic cable link from Agadir to Algeria and Tunisia (2007)

Mozambique
  general assessment: fair system with an extremely low
  density of less than 1 fixed line per 100 persons
  domestic: the telecommunications sector is shackled with a heavy
  state presence, lack of competition, and high operating costs and
  charges; stagnation in the fixed-line network contrasts with rapid
  growth in the mobile-cellular network; mobile-cellular coverage now
  includes all the main cities and key roads, including those from
  Maputo to the South African and Swaziland borders, the national
  highway through Gaza and Inhambane provinces, the Beira corridor,
  and from Nampula to Nacala
  international: country code - 258; satellite earth stations - 5
  Intelsat (2 Atlantic Ocean and 3 Indian Ocean)

Namibia
  general assessment: good system with a combined fixed-line
  and mobile-cellular teledensity of about 45 per 100 persons
  domestic: core fiber-optic network links most centers and
  connections are now digital; Namibia's first mobile-cellular
  network, launched in 1994, provides coverage to 86 percent of
  Namibia by area
  international: country code - 264; fiber-optic cable to South
  Africa, microwave radio relay link to Botswana, direct links to
  other neighboring countries; connected to the South African Far East
  (SAFE) submarine cable through South Africa; satellite earth
  stations - 4 Intelsat (2007)

Nauru
  general assessment: adequate local and international
  radiotelephone communication provided via Australian facilities
  domestic: NA
  international: country code - 674; satellite earth station - 1
  Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Nepal
  general assessment: poor telephone and telegraph service; fair
  radiotelephone communication service and mobile-cellular telephone
  network
  domestic: NA
  international: country code - 977; radiotelephone communications;
  microwave landline to India; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat
  (Indian Ocean)

Netherlands
  general assessment: highly developed and well maintained
  domestic: extensive fixed-line fiber-optic network; large cellular
  telephone system with 5 major operators utilizing the third
  generation of the Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM)
  technology
  international: country code - 31; submarine cables provide links to
  the US and Europe; satellite earth stations - 5 (3 Intelsat - 1
  Indian Ocean and 2 Atlantic Ocean, 1 Eutelsat, and 1 Inmarsat (2007)

Netherlands Antilles
  general assessment: generally adequate
  facilities
  domestic: extensive interisland microwave radio relay links
  international: country code - 599; the Americas Region Caribbean
  Ring System (ARCOS-1) and the Americas-2 submarine cable systems
  provide connectivity to Central America, parts of South America and
  the Caribbean, and the US; satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat
  (Atlantic Ocean)

New Caledonia
  general assessment: NA
  domestic: a submarine cable network connection between New Caledonia
  and Australia, completed in 2007, is expected to significantly
  increase network capacity and improve high-speed connectivity and
  access to international networks
  international: country code - 687; satellite earth station - 1
  Intelsat (Pacific Ocean) (2007)

New Zealand
  general assessment: excellent domestic and international
  systems
  domestic: NA
  international: country code - 64; the Southern Cross submarine cable
  system provides links to Australia, Fiji, and the US; satellite
  earth stations - 8 (1 Inmarsat - Pacific Ocean, 7 other)

Nicaragua
  general assessment: system being upgraded by foreign
  investment; nearly all installed telecommunications capacity now
  uses digital technology, owing to investments since privatization of
  the formerly state-owned telecommunications company
  domestic: since privatization, access to fixed-line and
  mobile-cellular services has improved but teledensity still lags
  behind other Central American countries; connected to Central
  American Microwave System
  international: country code - 505; the Americas Region Caribbean
  Ring System (ARCOS-1) fiber optic submarine cable provides
  connectivity to South and Central America, parts of the Caribbean,
  and the US; satellite earth stations - 1 Intersputnik (Atlantic
  Ocean region) and 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)

Niger
  general assessment: inadequate; small system of wire, radio
  telephone communications, and microwave radio relay links
  concentrated in the southwestern area of Niger
  domestic: combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity only
  about 7 per 100 persons; domestic satellite system with 3 earth
  stations and 1 planned
  international: country code - 227; satellite earth stations - 2
  Intelsat (1 Atlantic Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean)

Nigeria
  general assessment: further expansion and modernization of
  the fixed-line telephone network is needed
  domestic: the addition of a second fixed-line provider in 2002
  resulted in faster growth but subscribership remains only about 1
  per 100 persons; wireless telephony has grown rapidly, in part
  responding to the shortcomings of the fixed-line network; multiple
  service providers operate nationally; mobile-cellular teledensity
  reached 30 per 100 persons in 2007
  international: country code - 234; landing point for the SAT-3/WASC
  fiber-optic submarine cable that provides connectivity to Europe and
  Asia; satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (2 Atlantic Ocean and 1
  Indian Ocean) (2007)

Niue
  domestic: single-line telephone system connects all villages on
  island
  international: country code - 683 (2001)

Norfolk Island
  general assessment: adequate
  domestic: free local calls
  international: country code - 672; undersea coaxial cable links with
  Australia and New Zealand; satellite earth station - 1

Northern Mariana Islands
  general assessment: NA
  domestic: NA
  international: country code - 1-670; satellite earth stations - 2
  Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Norway
  general assessment: modern in all respects; one of the most
  advanced telecommunications networks in Europe
  domestic: Norway has a domestic satellite system; moreover, the
  prevalence of rural areas encourages the wide use of cellular-mobile
  systems instead of fixed-wire systems
  international: country code - 47; 2 buried coaxial cable systems;
  submarine cables provide links to other Nordic countries and Europe;
  satellite earth stations - NA Eutelsat, NA Intelsat (Atlantic
  Ocean), and 1 Inmarsat (Atlantic and Indian Ocean regions); note -
  Norway shares the Inmarsat earth station with the other Nordic
  countries (Denmark, Finland, Iceland, and Sweden) (1999)

Oman
  general assessment: modern system consisting of open-wire,
  microwave, and radiotelephone communication stations; limited
  coaxial cable
  domestic: fixed-line phone service gradually being introduced to
  remote villages using wireless local loop systems; fixed-line and
  mobile-cellular subscribership both increasing; open-wire,
  microwave, radiotelephone communications, and a domestic satellite
  system with 8 earth stations
  international: country code - 968; the Fiber-Optic Link Around the
  Globe (FLAG) and the SEA-ME-WE-3 submarine cable provide
  connectivity to Asia, the Middle East, and Europe; satellite earth
  stations - 2 Intelsat (Indian Ocean), 1 Arabsat (2007)

Pakistan
  general assessment: the telecommunications infrastructure
  is improving dramatically with foreign and domestic investments into
  fixed-line and mobile networks; mobile-cellular subscribership has
  skyrocketed, reaching some 88 million in 2008, up from only about
  300,000 in 2000; fiber systems are being constructed throughout the
  country to aid in network growth; main line availability has risen
  only marginally over the same period and there are still
  difficulties getting main line service to rural areas
  domestic: microwave radio relay, coaxial cable, fiber-optic cable,
  cellular, and satellite networks
  international: country code - 92; landing point for the SEA-ME-WE-3
  and SEA-ME-WE-4 submarine cable systems that provide links to Asia,
  the Middle East, and Europe; satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat
  (1 Atlantic Ocean and 2 Indian Ocean); 3 operational international
  gateway exchanges (1 at Karachi and 2 at Islamabad); microwave radio
  relay to neighboring countries (2008)

Palau
  general assessment: NA
  domestic: NA
  international: country code - 680; satellite earth station - 1
  Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Panama
  general assessment: domestic and international facilities
  well developed
  domestic: combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity is
  approaching 90 per 100 persons
  international: country code - 507; landing point for the Americas
  Region Caribbean Ring System (ARCOS-1), the MAYA-1, and PAN-AM
  submarine cable systems that together provide links to the US and
  parts of the Caribbean, Central America, and South America;
  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean); connected to
  the Central American Microwave System (2007)

Papua New Guinea
  general assessment: services are minimal;
  facilities provide radiotelephone and telegraph, coastal radio,
  aeronautical radio, and international radio communication services
  domestic: access to telephone services is not widely available;
  combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity is 6 per 100
  persons
  international: country code - 675; submarine cables to Australia and
  Guam; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean);
  international radio communication service (2007)

Paraguay
  general assessment: meager telephone service; principal
  switching center is in Asuncion
  domestic: the fixed-line market is a state monopoly; deficiencies in
  provision of fixed-line service have resulted in a rapid expansion
  of mobile-cellular services fostered by competition among multiple
  providers
  international: country code - 595; satellite earth station - 1
  Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Peru
  general assessment: adequate for most requirements
  domestic: fixed-line teledensity is only about 9 per 100 persons;
  mobile-cellular teledensity, spurred by competition among multiple
  providers, has increased to roughly 55 telephones per 100 persons;
  nationwide microwave radio relay system and a domestic satellite
  system with 12 earth stations
  international: country code - 51; the South America-1 (SAM-1) and
  Pan American (PAN-AM) submarine cable systems provide links to parts
  of Central and South America, the Caribbean, and US; satellite earth
  stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Philippines
  general assessment: good international radiotelephone
  and submarine cable services; domestic and interisland service
  adequate
  domestic: domestic satellite system with 11 earth stations; cellular
  communications now dominate the industry; combined fixed-line and
  mobile-cellular telephone density about 60 telephones per 100 persons
  international: country code - 63; a series of submarine cables
  together provide connectivity to Asia, US, the Middle East, and
  Europe; multiple international gateways (2007)

Pitcairn Islands
  general assessment: satellite phone services
  domestic: domestic communication via radio (CB)
  international: country code - 872; satellite earth station - 1
  (Inmarsat)

Poland
  general assessment: modernization of the telecommunications
  network has accelerated with market based competition finalized in
  2003; fixed-line service, dominated by the former state-owned
  company, is dwarfed by the growth in wireless telephony
  domestic: mobile-cellular service available since 1993 and provided
  by three nation-wide networks with a fourth provider beginning
  operations in late 2006; cellular coverage is generally good with
  some gaps in the east; fixed-line service is growing slowly and
  still lags in rural areas
  international: country code - 48; international direct dialing with
  automated exchanges; satellite earth station - 1 with access to
  Intelsat, Eutelsat, Inmarsat, and Intersputnik (2007)

Portugal
  general assessment: Portugal's telephone system has
  achieved a state-of-the-art network with broadband, high-speed
  capabilities
  domestic: integrated network of coaxial cables, open-wire, microwave
  radio relay, and domestic satellite earth stations
  international: country code - 351; a combination of submarine cables
  provide connectivity to Europe, North and East Africa, South Africa,
  the Middle East, Asia, and the US; satellite earth stations - 3
  Intelsat (2 Atlantic Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean), NA Eutelsat;
  tropospheric scatter to Azores (1998)

Puerto Rico
  general assessment: modern system integrated with that
  of the US by high-capacity submarine cable and Intelsat with
  high-speed data capability
  domestic: digital telephone system; cellular telephone service
  international: country code - 1-787, 939; submarine cables provide
  connectivity to the US, Caribbean, Central and South America;
  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat

Qatar
  general assessment: modern system centered in Doha
  domestic: combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular telephone density
  is roughly 165 telephones per 100 persons
  international: country code - 974; landing point for the Fiber-Optic
  Link Around the Globe (FLAG) submarine cable network that provides
  links to Asia, Middle East, Europe, and the US; tropospheric scatter
  to Bahrain; microwave radio relay to Saudi Arabia and the UAE;
  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Atlantic Ocean and 1 Indian
  Ocean) and 1 Arabsat

Romania
  general assessment: domestic and international service
  improving rapidly, especially in wireless telephony
  domestic: more than 90 percent of telephone network is automatic;
  liberalization in 2003 is transforming telecommunications;
  fixed-line teledensity is roughly 20 telephones per 100 persons;
  mobile-cellular teledensity now slightly exceeds 100 telephones per
  100 persons
  international: country code - 40; the Black Sea Fiber Optic System
  provides connectivity to Bulgaria and Turkey; satellite earth
  stations - 10; digital, international, direct-dial exchanges operate
  in Bucharest (2007)

Russia
  general assessment: the telephone system is experiencing
  significant changes; there are more than 1,000 companies licensed to
  offer communication services; access to digital lines has improved,
  particularly in urban centers; Internet and e-mail services are
  improving; Russia has made progress toward building the
  telecommunications infrastructure necessary for a market economy;
  the estimated number of mobile subscribers jumped from fewer than 1
  million in 1998 to 170 million in 2007; a large demand for main line
  service remains unsatisfied, but fixed-line operators continue to
  grow their services
  domestic: cross-country digital trunk lines run from Saint
  Petersburg to Khabarovsk, and from Moscow to Novorossiysk; the
  telephone systems in 60 regional capitals have modern digital
  infrastructures; cellular services, both analog and digital, are
  available in many areas; in rural areas, the telephone services are
  still outdated, inadequate, and low density
  international: country code - 7; Russia is connected internationally
  by undersea fiber optic cables; digital switches in several cities
  provide more than 50,000 lines for international calls; satellite
  earth stations provide access to Intelsat, Intersputnik, Eutelsat,
  Inmarsat, and Orbita systems

Rwanda
  general assessment: small, inadequate telephone system
  primarily serves business and government
  domestic: the capital, Kigali, is connected to the centers of the
  provinces by microwave radio relay and, recently, by cellular
  telephone service; much of the network depends on wire and HF
  radiotelephone; combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular telephone
  density is only about 7 telephones per 100 persons
  international: country code - 250; international connections employ
  microwave radio relay to neighboring countries and satellite
  communications to more distant countries; satellite earth stations -
  1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean) in Kigali (includes telex and telefax
  service)

Saint Barthelemy
  general assessment: fully integrated access
  domestic: direct dial capability with both fixed and wireless systems
  international: country code - 590; undersea fiber-optic cable
  provides voice and data connectivity to Puerto Rico and Guadeloupe

Saint Helena
  general assessment: can communicate worldwide
  domestic: automatic digital network
  international: country code (Saint Helena) - 290, (Ascension Island)
  - 247; international direct dialing; satellite voice and data
  communications; satellite earth stations - 5 (Ascension Island - 4,
  Saint Helena - 1)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  general assessment: good interisland and
  international connections
  domestic: interisland links via Eastern Caribbean Fiber Optic cable;
  construction of enhanced wireless infrastructure launched in
  November 2004
  international: country code - 1-869; connected internationally by
  the East Caribbean Fiber Optic System (ECFS) and Southern Caribbean
  fiber optic system (SCF) submarine cables

Saint Lucia
  general assessment: adequate system
  domestic: system is automatically switched
  international: country code - 1-758; the East Caribbean Fiber Optic
  System (ECFS) and Southern Caribbean fiber optic system (SCF)
  submarine cables, along with Intelsat from Martinique, carry calls
  internationally; direct microwave radio relay link with Martinique
  and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines; tropospheric scatter to
  Barbados

Saint Martin
  general assessment: fully integrated access
  domestic: direct dial capability with both fixed and wireless systems
  international: country code - 590; undersea fiber-optic cable
  provides voice and data connectivity to Puerto Rico and Guadeloupe

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  general assessment: adequate
  domestic: NA
  international: country code - 508; radiotelephone communication with
  most countries in the world; satellite earth station - 1 in French
  domestic satellite system

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  general assessment: adequate system
  domestic: islandwide, fully automatic telephone system; VHF/UHF
  radiotelephone from Saint Vincent to the other islands of the
  Grenadines; mobile-cellular teledensity roughly 100 telephones per
  100 persons
  international: country code - 1-784; the East Caribbean Fiber Optic
  System (ECFS) and Southern Caribbean fiber optic system (SCF)
  submarine cables carry international calls; connectivity also
  provided by VHF/UHF radiotelephone from Saint Vincent to Barbados;
  SHF radiotelephone to Grenada and Saint Lucia; access to Intelsat
  earth station in Martinique through Saint Lucia

Samoa
  general assessment: adequate
  domestic: combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity
  roughly 50 telephones per 100 persons
  international: country code - 685; satellite earth station - 1
  Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

San Marino
  general assessment: adequate connections
  domestic: automatic telephone system completely integrated into
  Italian system; combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity
  exceeds 130 telephones per 100 persons
  international: country code - 378; connected to Italian
  international network

Sao Tome and Principe
  general assessment: local telephone network of
  adequate quality with most lines connected to digital switches
  domestic: combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity
  approaching 20 telephones per 100 persons
  international: country code - 239; satellite earth station - 1
  Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Saudi Arabia
  general assessment: modern system
  domestic: extensive microwave radio relay, coaxial cable, and
  fiber-optic cable systems; mobile-cellular subscribership has been
  increasing rapidly
  international: country code - 966; landing point for the
  international submarine cable Fiber-Optic Link Around the Globe
  (FLAG) and for both the SEA-ME-WE-3 and SEA-ME-WE-4 submarine cable
  networks providing connectivity to Asia, Middle East, Europe, and
  US; microwave radio relay to Bahrain, Jordan, Kuwait, Qatar, UAE,
  Yemen, and Sudan; coaxial cable to Kuwait and Jordan; satellite
  earth stations - 5 Intelsat (3 Atlantic Ocean and 2 Indian Ocean), 1
  Arabsat, and 1 Inmarsat (Indian Ocean region)

Senegal
  general assessment: good system
  domestic: above-average urban system with a fiber-optic network;
  nearly two-thirds of all fixed-line connections are in Dakar where a
  call-center industry is emerging; expansion of fixed-line services
  in rural areas needed; mobile-cellular service is expanding rapidly;
  microwave radio relay, coaxial cable and fiber-optic cable in trunk
  system
  international: country code - 221; the SAT-3/WASC fiber optic cable
  provides connectivity to Europe and Asia while Atlantis-2 provides
  connectivity to South America; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat
  (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)

Serbia
  general assessment: modernization of the telecommunications
  network has been slow as a result of damage stemming from the 1999
  war and transition to a competitive market-based system; network was
  only 65% digitalized in 2005
  domestic: teledensity remains below the average for neighboring
  states; GSM wireless service, available through multiple providers
  with national coverage, is growing very rapidly; best
  telecommunications service limited to urban centers
  international: country code - 381

Seychelles
  general assessment: effective system
  domestic: combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity is
  nearly 125 telephones per 100 persons; radiotelephone communications
  between islands in the archipelago
  international: country code - 248; direct radiotelephone
  communications with adjacent island countries and African coastal
  countries; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean)

Sierra Leone
  general assessment: marginal telephone service
  domestic: the national microwave radio relay trunk system connects
  Freetown to Bo and Kenema; mobile-cellular service is growing
  rapidly from a small base
  international: country code - 232; satellite earth station - 1
  Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Singapore
  general assessment: excellent service
  domestic: excellent domestic facilities; launched 3G wireless
  service in February 2005; combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular
  teledensity is about 165 telephones per 100 persons
  international: country code - 65; numerous submarine cables provide
  links throughout Asia, Australia, the Middle East, Europe, and US;
  satellite earth stations -4; supplemented by VSAT coverage (2007)

Slovakia
  general assessment: Slovakia has a modern
  telecommunications system that has expanded dramatically in recent
  years with the growth in cellular services
  domestic: analog system is now receiving digital equipment and is
  being enlarged with fiber-optic cable, especially in the larger
  cities; 3 companies provide nationwide cellular services
  international: country code - 421; 3 international exchanges (1 in
  Bratislava and 2 in Banska Bystrica) are available; Slovakia is
  participating in several international telecommunications projects
  that will increase the availability of external services

Slovenia
  general assessment: well-developed telecommunications
  infrastructure
  domestic: combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity
  roughly 140 telephones per 100 persons
  international: country code - 386

Solomon Islands
  general assessment: NA
  domestic: NA
  international: country code - 677; satellite earth station - 1
  Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Somalia
  general assessment: the public telecommunications system was
  almost completely destroyed or dismantled during the civil war;
  private wireless companies offer service in most major cities and
  charge the lowest international rates on the continent
  domestic: local cellular telephone systems have been established in
  Mogadishu and in several other population centers
  international: country code - 252; international connections are
  available from Mogadishu by satellite (2001)

South Africa
  general assessment: the system is the best developed
  and most modern in Africa
  domestic: combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity is
  nearly 110 telephones per 100 persons; consists of carrier-equipped
  open-wire lines, coaxial cables, microwave radio relay links,
  fiber-optic cable, radiotelephone communication stations, and
  wireless local loops; key centers are Bloemfontein, Cape Town,
  Durban, Johannesburg, Port Elizabeth, and Pretoria
  international: country code - 27; the SAT-3/WASC and SAFE fiber
  optic cable systems connect South Africa to Europe and Asia;
  satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (1 Indian Ocean and 2 Atlantic
  Ocean)

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  general assessment: NA
  domestic: NA
  international: coastal radiotelephone station at Grytviken

Spain
  general assessment: well developed, modern facilities;
  fixed-line teledensity is about 45 per 100 persons
  domestic: combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity is
  nearly 170 telephones per 100 persons
  international: country code - 34; submarine cables provide
  connectivity to Europe, Middle East, Asia, and US; satellite earth
  stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Atlantic Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean), NA
  Eutelsat; tropospheric scatter to adjacent countries

Sri Lanka
  general assessment: telephone services have improved
  significantly and are available in most parts of the country
  domestic: national trunk network consists mostly of digital
  microwave radio relay; fiber-optic links now in use in Colombo area
  and fixed wireless local loops have been installed; competition is
  strong in mobile cellular systems and mobile cellular subscribership
  is increasing; combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity
  is about 50 per 100 persons
  international: country code - 94; the SEA-ME-WE-3 and SEA-ME-WE-4
  submarine cables provide connectivity to Asia, Australia, Middle
  East, Europe, US; satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Indian
  Ocean)

Sudan
  general assessment: well-equipped system by regional standards
  and being upgraded; cellular communications started in 1996 and have
  expanded substantially
  domestic: consists of microwave radio relay, cable, radiotelephone
  communications, tropospheric scatter, and a domestic satellite
  system with 14 earth stations
  international: country code - 249; linked to international submarine
  cable Fiber-Optic Link Around the Globe (FLAG); satellite earth
  stations - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean), 1 Arabsat (2000)

Suriname
  general assessment: international facilities are good
  domestic: combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity about
  90 telephones per 100 persons; microwave radio relay network
  international: country code - 597; satellite earth stations - 2
  Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Svalbard
  general assessment: probably adequate
  domestic: local telephone service
  international: country code - 47-790; satellite earth station - 1 of
  unknown type (for communication with Norwegian mainland only)

Swaziland
  general assessment: a somewhat modern but not an advanced
  system
  domestic: mobile-cellular subscribership is increasing; combined
  fixed-line and mobile cellular teledensity approaching 40 telephones
  per 100 persons; telephone system consists of carrier-equipped,
  open-wire lines and low-capacity, microwave radio relay
  international: country code - 268; satellite earth station - 1
  Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007)

Sweden
  general assessment: highly developed telecommunications
  infrastructure; ranked among leading countries for fixed-line,
  mobile-cellular, Internet and broadband penetration
  domestic: coaxial and multiconductor cables carry most of the voice
  traffic; parallel microwave radio relay systems carry some
  additional telephone channels
  international: country code - 46; submarine cables provide links to
  other Nordic countries and Europe; satellite earth stations - 1
  Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean), 1 Eutelsat, and 1 Inmarsat (Atlantic and
  Indian Ocean regions); note - Sweden shares the Inmarsat earth
  station with the other Nordic countries (Denmark, Finland, Iceland,
  and Norway)

Switzerland
  general assessment: highly developed telecommunications
  infrastructure with excellent domestic and international services
  domestic: ranked among leading countries for fixed-line teledensity
  and infrastructure; mobile-cellular subscribership roughly 100 per
  100 persons; extensive cable and microwave radio relay networks
  international: country code - 41; satellite earth stations - 2
  Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean and Indian Ocean)

Syria
  general assessment: fair system currently undergoing
  significant improvement and digital upgrades, including fiber-optic
  technology
  domestic: the number of fixed-line connections has increased
  markedly since 2000; mobile-cellular service growing rapidly and
  teledensity about 35 wireless telephones per 100 persons; coaxial
  cable and microwave radio relay network
  international: country code - 963; submarine cable connection to
  Cyprus; satellite earth stations - 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean) and 1
  Intersputnik (Atlantic Ocean region); coaxial cable and microwave
  radio relay to Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, and Turkey; participant in
  Medarabtel

Taiwan
  general assessment: provides telecommunications service for
  every business and private need
  domestic: thoroughly modern; completely digitalized
  international: country code - 886; numerous submarine cables provide
  links throughout Asia, Australia, the Middle East, Europe, and the
  US; satellite earth stations - 2

Tajikistan
  general assessment: poorly developed and not well
  maintained; many towns are not linked to the national network
  domestic: the domestic telecommunications network has historically
  been under funded and poorly maintained; main line availability has
  not changed significantly since 1998; cellular telephone use is
  growing but geographic coverage remains limited
  international: country code - 992; linked by cable and microwave
  radio relay to other CIS republics and by leased connections to the
  Moscow international gateway switch; Dushanbe linked by Intelsat to
  international gateway switch in Ankara (Turkey); satellite earth
  stations - 3 (2 Intelsat and 1 Orbita) (2006)

Tanzania
  general assessment: telecommunications services are
  inadequate; system operating below capacity and being modernized for
  better service; small aperture terminal (VSAT) system under
  construction
  domestic: fixed-line telephone network inadequate with less than 1
  connection per 100 persons; mobile-cellular service, aided by
  multiple providers, is increasing; trunk service provided by
  open-wire, microwave radio relay, tropospheric scatter, and
  fiber-optic cable; some links being made digital
  international: country code - 255; satellite earth stations - 2
  Intelsat (1 Indian Ocean, 1 Atlantic Ocean)

Thailand
  general assessment: high quality system, especially in
  urban areas like Bangkok
  domestic: fixed line system provided by both a government owned and
  commercial provider; wireless service expanding rapidly and
  outpacing fixed lines
  international: country code - 66; connected to major submarine cable
  systems providing links throughout Asia, Australia, Middle East,
  Europe, and US; satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Indian
  Ocean, 1 Pacific Ocean)

Timor-Leste
  general assessment: rudimentary service limited to urban
  areas
  domestic: system suffered significant damage during the violence
  associated with independence; extremely limited fixed-line services;
  mobile-cellular services and coverage limited primarily to urban
  areas
  international: country code - 670; international service is
  available in major urban centers

Togo
  general assessment: fair system based on a network of microwave
  radio relay routes supplemented by open-wire lines and a
  mobile-cellular system
  domestic: microwave radio relay and open-wire lines for conventional
  system; combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity roughly
  15 telephones per 100 persons
  international: country code - 228; satellite earth stations - 1
  Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean), 1 Symphonie

Tokelau
  general assessment: modern satellite-based communications
  system
  domestic: radiotelephone service between islands
  international: country code - 690; radiotelephone service to Samoa;
  government-regulated telephone service (TeleTok); satellite earth
  stations - 3

Tonga
  general assessment: competition between Tonga
  Telecommunications Corporation (TCC) and Shoreline Communications
  Tonga (SCT) is accelerating expansion of telecommunications; SCT
  recently granted authority to develop high-speed digital service for
  telephone, Internet, and television
  domestic: combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity
  roughly 40 telephones per 100 persons; fully automatic switched
  network
  international: country code - 676; satellite earth station - 1
  Intelsat (Pacific Ocean) (2004)

Trinidad and Tobago
  general assessment: excellent international
  service; good local service
  domestic: mobile-cellular teledensity exceeds 125 telephones per 100
  persons
  international: country code - 1-868; submarine cable systems provide
  connectivity to US and parts of the Caribbean and South America;
  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean); tropospheric
  scatter to Barbados and Guyana

Tunisia
  general assessment: above the African average and continuing
  to be upgraded; key centers are Sfax, Sousse, Bizerte, and Tunis;
  Internet access available
  domestic: in an effort jumpstart expansion of the fixed-line
  network, the government has awarded a concession to build and
  operate a VSAT network with international connectivity; competition
  between the two mobile-cellular service providers has resulted in
  lower activation and usage charges and a strong surge in
  subscribership; expansion of mobile-cellular services to include
  multimedia messaging and e-mail and Internet to mobile phone
  services also leading to a surge in subscribership; overall
  fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity is about 90 telephones
  per 100 persons
  international: country code - 216; a landing point for the
  SEA-ME-WE-4 submarine cable system that provides links to Europe,
  Middle East, and Asia; satellite earth stations - 1 Intelsat
  (Atlantic Ocean) and 1 Arabsat; coaxial cable and microwave radio
  relay to Algeria and Libya; participant in Medarabtel; 2
  international gateway digital switches

Turkey
  general assessment: undergoing rapid modernization and
  expansion especially with cellular telephones
  domestic: additional digital exchanges are permitting a rapid
  increase in subscribers; the construction of a network of
  technologically advanced intercity trunk lines, using both
  fiber-optic cable and digital microwave radio relay, is facilitating
  communication between urban centers; remote areas are reached by a
  domestic satellite system; the number of subscribers to
  mobile-cellular telephone service is growing rapidly
  international: country code - 90; international service is provided
  by the SEA-ME-WE-3 submarine cable and by submarine fiber-optic
  cables in the Mediterranean and Black Seas that link Turkey with
  Italy, Greece, Israel, Bulgaria, Romania, and Russia; satellite
  earth stations - 12 Intelsat; mobile satellite terminals - 328 in
  the Inmarsat and Eutelsat systems (2002)

Turkmenistan
  general assessment: poorly developed
  domestic: Turkmentelekom, in cooperation with foreign investors, is
  planning to upgrade the country's telephone exchanges and install a
  new digital switching system; mobile-cellular usage remains limited
  international: country code - 993; linked by cable and microwave
  radio relay to other CIS republics and to other countries by leased
  connections to the Moscow international gateway switch; a new
  telephone link from Ashgabat to Iran has been established; a new
  exchange in Ashgabat switches international traffic through Turkey
  via Intelsat; satellite earth stations - 1 Orbita and 1 Intelsat
  (2006)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  general assessment: fully digital system
  with international direct dialing
  domestic: full range of services available; GSM wireless service
  available
  international: country code - 1-649; the Americas Region Caribbean
  Ring System (ARCOS-1) fiber optic telecommunications submarine cable
  provides connectivity to South and Central America, parts of the
  Caribbean, and the US; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat
  (Atlantic Ocean)

Tuvalu
  general assessment: serves particular needs for internal
  communications
  domestic: radiotelephone communications between islands
  international: country code - 688; international calls can be made
  by satellite

Uganda
  general assessment: seriously inadequate; mobile cellular
  service is increasing rapidly, but the number of main lines is still
  deficient; e-mail and Internet services are available
  domestic: intercity traffic by wire, microwave radio relay, and
  radiotelephone communication stations, fixed and mobile-cellular
  systems for short-range traffic
  international: country code - 256; satellite earth stations - 1
  Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) and 1 Inmarsat; analog links to Kenya and
  Tanzania

Ukraine
  general assessment: Ukraine's telecommunication development
  plan emphasizes improving domestic trunk lines, international
  connections, and the mobile-cellular system
  domestic: at independence in December 1991, Ukraine inherited a
  telephone system that was antiquated, inefficient, and in disrepair;
  more than 3.5 million applications for telephones could not be
  satisfied; telephone density is rising and the domestic trunk system
  is being improved; about one-third of Ukraine's networks are digital
  and a majority of regional centers now have digital switching
  stations; improvements in local networks and local exchanges
  continue to lag; the mobile-cellular telephone system is expanding
  rapidly
  international: country code - 380; 2 new domestic trunk lines are a
  part of the fiber-optic Trans-Asia-Europe (TAE) system and 3
  Ukrainian links have been installed in the fiber-optic
  Trans-European Lines (TEL) project that connects 18 countries;
  additional international service is provided by the
  Italy-Turkey-Ukraine-Russia (ITUR) fiber-optic submarine cable and
  by an unknown number of earth stations in the Intelsat, Inmarsat,
  and Intersputnik satellite systems

United Arab Emirates
  general assessment: modern fiber-optic
  integrated services; digital network with rapidly growing use of
  mobile-cellular telephones; key centers are Abu Dhabi and Dubai
  domestic: microwave radio relay, fiber optic and coaxial cable
  international: country code - 971; linked to the international
  submarine cable FLAG (Fiber-Optic Link Around the Globe); landing
  point for both the SEA-ME-WE-3 and SEA-ME-WE-4 submarine cable
  networks; satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (1 Atlantic Ocean
  and 2 Indian Ocean) and 1 Arabsat; tropospheric scatter to Bahrain;
  microwave radio relay to Saudi Arabia

United Kingdom
  general assessment: technologically advanced domestic
  and international system
  domestic: equal mix of buried cables, microwave radio relay, and
  fiber-optic systems
  international: country code - 44; numerous submarine cables provide
  links throughout Europe, Asia, Australia, the Middle East, and US;
  satellite earth stations - 10 Intelsat (7 Atlantic Ocean and 3
  Indian Ocean), 1 Inmarsat (Atlantic Ocean region), and 1 Eutelsat;
  at least 8 large international switching centers

United States
  general assessment: a large, technologically advanced,
  multipurpose communications system
  domestic: a large system of fiber-optic cable, microwave radio
  relay, coaxial cable, and domestic satellites carries every form of
  telephone traffic; a rapidly growing cellular system carries mobile
  telephone traffic throughout the country
  international: country code - 1; multiple ocean cable systems
  provide international connectivity; satellite earth stations - 61
  Intelsat (45 Atlantic Ocean and 16 Pacific Ocean), 5 Intersputnik
  (Atlantic Ocean region), and 4 Inmarsat (Pacific and Atlantic Ocean
  regions) (2000)

Uruguay
  general assessment: fully digitalized
  domestic: most modern facilities concentrated in Montevideo; new
  nationwide microwave radio relay network; overall fixed-line and
  mobile-cellular teledensity is 115 telephones per 100 persons
  international: country code - 598; the UNISOR submarine cable system
  provides direct connectivity to Brazil and Argentina; satellite
  earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2002)

Uzbekistan
  general assessment: antiquated and inadequate; in serious
  need of modernization
  domestic: the main line telecommunications system is dilapidated and
  telephone density is low; the state-owned telecommunications
  company, Uzbektelecom, is working on improving main line services;
  mobile services are growing swiftly, with the subscriber base more
  than doubling in 2007 to 5.8 million
  international: country code - 998; linked by landline or microwave
  radio relay with CIS member states and to other countries by leased
  connection via the Moscow international gateway switch; after the
  completion of the Uzbek link to the Trans-Asia-Europe (TAE)
  fiber-optic cable, Uzbekistan will be independent of Russian
  facilities for international communications (2007)

Vanuatu
  general assessment: NA
  domestic: NA
  international: country code - 678; satellite earth station - 1
  Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Venezuela
  general assessment: modern and expanding
  domestic: domestic satellite system with 3 earth stations; recent
  substantial improvement in telephone service in rural areas;
  substantial increase in digitalization of exchanges and trunk lines;
  installation of a national interurban fiber-optic network capable of
  digital multimedia services; fixed-line teledensity 20 per 100
  persons; mobile-cellular teledensity more than 90 per 100 persons
  international: country code - 58; submarine cable systems provide
  connectivity to the Caribbean, Central and South America, and US;
  satellite earth stations - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) and 1
  PanAmSat; participating with Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia in
  the construction of an international fiber-optic network (2007)

Vietnam
  general assessment: Vietnam is putting considerable effort
  into modernization and expansion of its telecommunication system,
  but its performance continues to lag behind that of its more modern
  neighbors
  domestic: all provincial exchanges are digitalized and connected to
  Hanoi, Da Nang, and Ho Chi Minh City by fiber-optic cable or
  microwave radio relay networks; main lines have been substantially
  increased, and the use of mobile telephones is growing rapidly
  international: country code - 84; a landing point for the
  SEA-ME-WE-3, the C2C, and Thailand-Vietnam-Hong Kong submarine cable
  systems; the Asia-America Gateway submarine cable system, scheduled
  for completion by the end of 2008, will provide new access links to
  Asia and the US; satellite earth stations - 2 Intersputnik (Indian
  Ocean region)

Virgin Islands
  general assessment: modern system with total digital
  switching, uses fiber-optic cable and microwave radio relay
  domestic: full range of services available
  international: country code - 1-340; submarine cable connections to
  US, the Caribbean, Central and South America; satellite earth
  stations - NA

Wake Island
  general assessment: satellite communications; 2 DSN
  circuits off the Overseas Telephone System (OTS)
  domestic: NA
  international: NA

Wallis and Futuna
  general assessment: NA
  domestic: NA
  international: country code - 681

West Bank
  general assessment: NA
  domestic: Israeli company BEZEK and the Palestinian company PALTEL
  are responsible for fixed line services; the Palestinian JAWAL
  company provides cellular services
  international: country code - 970 (2004)

Western Sahara
  general assessment: sparse and limited system
  domestic: NA
  international: country code - 212; tied into Morocco's system by
  microwave radio relay, tropospheric scatter, and satellite;
  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) linked to
  Rabat, Morocco

World
  general assessment: NA
  domestic: NA
  international: NA

Yemen
  general assessment: since unification in 1990, efforts have
  been made to create a national telecommunications network
  domestic: the national network consists of microwave radio relay,
  cable, tropospheric scatter, and GSM mobile-cellular telephone
  systems; fixed-line and mobile-cellular teledensity remains low by
  regional standards
  international: country code - 967; landing point for the
  international submarine cable Fiber-Optic Link Around the Globe
  (FLAG); satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (2 Indian Ocean and 1
  Atlantic Ocean), 1 Intersputnik (Atlantic Ocean region), and 2
  Arabsat; microwave radio relay to Saudi Arabia and Djibouti

Zambia
  general assessment: facilities are aging but still among the
  best in Sub-Saharan Africa
  domestic: high-capacity microwave radio relay connects most larger
  towns and cities; several cellular telephone services in operation
  and network coverage is improving; Internet service is widely
  available; very small aperture terminal (VSAT) networks are operated
  by private firms
  international: country code - 260; satellite earth stations - 2
  Intelsat (1 Indian Ocean and 1 Atlantic Ocean)

Zimbabwe
  general assessment: system was once one of the best in
  Africa, but now suffers from poor maintenance; more than 100,000
  outstanding requests for connection despite an equally large number
  of installed but unused main lines
  domestic: consists of microwave radio relay links, open-wire lines,
  radiotelephone communication stations, fixed wireless local loop
  installations, and a substantial mobile-cellular network; Internet
  connection is available in Harare and planned for all major towns
  and for some of the smaller ones
  international: country code - 263; satellite earth stations - 2
  Intelsat; 2 international digital gateway exchanges (in Harare and
  Gweru)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2125  Terrain


Afghanistan
  mostly rugged mountains; plains in north and southwest

Albania
  mostly mountains and hills; small plains along coast

Algeria
  mostly high plateau and desert; some mountains; narrow,
  discontinuous coastal plain

American Samoa
  five volcanic islands with rugged peaks and limited
  coastal plains, two coral atolls (Rose Island, Swains Island)

Andorra
  rugged mountains dissected by narrow valleys

Angola
  narrow coastal plain rises abruptly to vast interior plateau

Anguilla
  flat and low-lying island of coral and limestone

Antarctica
  about 98% thick continental ice sheet and 2% barren rock,
  with average elevations between 2,000 and 4,000 meters; mountain
  ranges up to nearly 5,000 meters; ice-free coastal areas include
  parts of southern Victoria Land, Wilkes Land, the Antarctic
  Peninsula area, and parts of Ross Island on McMurdo Sound; glaciers
  form ice shelves along about half of the coastline, and floating ice
  shelves constitute 11% of the area of the continent

Antigua and Barbuda
  mostly low-lying limestone and coral islands,
  with some higher volcanic areas

Arctic Ocean
  central surface covered by a perennial drifting polar
  icepack that, on average, is about 3 meters thick, although pressure
  ridges may be three times that thickness; clockwise drift pattern in
  the Beaufort Gyral Stream, but nearly straight-line movement from
  the New Siberian Islands (Russia) to Denmark Strait (between
  Greenland and Iceland); the icepack is surrounded by open seas
  during the summer, but more than doubles in size during the winter
  and extends to the encircling landmasses; the ocean floor is about
  50% continental shelf (highest percentage of any ocean) with the
  remainder a central basin interrupted by three submarine ridges
  (Alpha Cordillera, Nansen Cordillera, and Lomonosov Ridge)

Argentina
  rich plains of the Pampas in northern half, flat to
  rolling plateau of Patagonia in south, rugged Andes along western
  border

Armenia
  Armenian Highland with mountains; little forest land; fast
  flowing rivers; good soil in Aras River valley

Aruba
  flat with a few hills; scant vegetation

Ashmore and Cartier Islands
  low with sand and coral

Atlantic Ocean
  surface usually covered with sea ice in Labrador Sea,
  Denmark Strait, and coastal portions of the Baltic Sea from October
  to June; clockwise warm-water gyre (broad, circular system of
  currents) in the northern Atlantic, counterclockwise warm-water gyre
  in the southern Atlantic; the ocean floor is dominated by the
  Mid-Atlantic Ridge, a rugged north-south centerline for the entire
  Atlantic basin

Australia
  mostly low plateau with deserts; fertile plain in southeast

Austria
  in the west and south mostly mountains (Alps); along the
  eastern and northern margins mostly flat or gently sloping

Azerbaijan
  large, flat Kur-Araz Ovaligi (Kura-Araks Lowland) (much
  of it below sea level) with Great Caucasus Mountains to the north,
  Qarabag Yaylasi (Karabakh Upland) in west; Baku lies on Abseron
  Yasaqligi (Apsheron Peninsula) that juts into Caspian Sea

Bahamas, The
  long, flat coral formations with some low rounded hills

Bahrain
  mostly low desert plain rising gently to low central
  escarpment

Bangladesh
  mostly flat alluvial plain; hilly in southeast

Barbados
  relatively flat; rises gently to central highland region

Belarus
  generally flat and contains much marshland

Belgium
  flat coastal plains in northwest, central rolling hills,
  rugged mountains of Ardennes Forest in southeast

Belize
  flat, swampy coastal plain; low mountains in south

Benin
  mostly flat to undulating plain; some hills and low mountains

Bermuda
  low hills separated by fertile depressions

Bhutan
  mostly mountainous with some fertile valleys and savanna

Bolivia
  rugged Andes Mountains with a highland plateau (Altiplano),
  hills, lowland plains of the Amazon Basin

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  mountains and valleys

Botswana
  predominantly flat to gently rolling tableland; Kalahari
  Desert in southwest

Bouvet Island
  volcanic; coast is mostly inaccessible

Brazil
  mostly flat to rolling lowlands in north; some plains, hills,
  mountains, and narrow coastal belt

British Indian Ocean Territory
  flat and low (most areas do not
  exceed two meters in elevation)

British Virgin Islands
  coral islands relatively flat; volcanic
  islands steep, hilly

Brunei
  flat coastal plain rises to mountains in east; hilly lowland
  in west

Bulgaria
  mostly mountains with lowlands in north and southeast

Burkina Faso
  mostly flat to dissected, undulating plains; hills in
  west and southeast

Burma
  central lowlands ringed by steep, rugged highlands

Burundi
  hilly and mountainous, dropping to a plateau in east, some
  plains

Cambodia
  mostly low, flat plains; mountains in southwest and north

Cameroon
  diverse, with coastal plain in southwest, dissected plateau
  in center, mountains in west, plains in north

Canada
  mostly plains with mountains in west and lowlands in southeast

Cape Verde
  steep, rugged, rocky, volcanic

Cayman Islands
  low-lying limestone base surrounded by coral reefs

Central African Republic
  vast, flat to rolling, monotonous plateau;
  scattered hills in northeast and southwest

Chad
  broad, arid plains in center, desert in north, mountains in
  northwest, lowlands in south

Chile
  low coastal mountains; fertile central valley; rugged Andes in
  east

China
  mostly mountains, high plateaus, deserts in west; plains,
  deltas, and hills in east

Christmas Island
  steep cliffs along coast rise abruptly to central
  plateau

Clipperton Island
  coral atoll

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  flat, low-lying coral atolls

Colombia
  flat coastal lowlands, central highlands, high Andes
  Mountains, eastern lowland plains

Comoros
  volcanic islands, interiors vary from steep mountains to low
  hills

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  vast central basin is a low-lying
  plateau; mountains in east

Congo, Republic of the
  coastal plain, southern basin, central
  plateau, northern basin

Cook Islands
  low coral atolls in north; volcanic, hilly islands in
  south

Coral Sea Islands
  sand and coral reefs and islands (or cays)

Costa Rica
  coastal plains separated by rugged mountains including
  over 100 volcanic cones, of which several are major volcanoes

Cote d'Ivoire
  mostly flat to undulating plains; mountains in
  northwest

Croatia
  geographically diverse; flat plains along Hungarian border,
  low mountains and highlands near Adriatic coastline and islands

Cuba
  mostly flat to rolling plains, with rugged hills and mountains
  in the southeast

Cyprus
  central plain with mountains to north and south; scattered
  but significant plains along southern coast

Czech Republic
  Bohemia in the west consists of rolling plains,
  hills, and plateaus surrounded by low mountains; Moravia in the east
  consists of very hilly country

Denmark
  low and flat to gently rolling plains

Djibouti
  coastal plain and plateau separated by central mountains

Dominica
  rugged mountains of volcanic origin

Dominican Republic
  rugged highlands and mountains with fertile
  valleys interspersed

Ecuador
  coastal plain (costa), inter-Andean central highlands
  (sierra), and flat to rolling eastern jungle (oriente)

Egypt
  vast desert plateau interrupted by Nile valley and delta

El Salvador
  mostly mountains with narrow coastal belt and central
  plateau

Equatorial Guinea
  coastal plains rise to interior hills; islands are
  volcanic

Eritrea
  dominated by extension of Ethiopian north-south trending
  highlands, descending on the east to a coastal desert plain, on the
  northwest to hilly terrain and on the southwest to flat-to-rolling
  plains

Estonia
  marshy, lowlands; flat in the north, hilly in the south

Ethiopia
  high plateau with central mountain range divided by Great
  Rift Valley

European Union
  fairly flat along the Baltic and Atlantic coast;
  mountainous in the central and southern areas

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  rocky, hilly, mountainous with
  some boggy, undulating plains

Faroe Islands
  rugged, rocky, some low peaks; cliffs along most of
  coast

Fiji
  mostly mountains of volcanic origin

Finland
  mostly low, flat to rolling plains interspersed with lakes
  and low hills

France
  metropolitan France: mostly flat plains or gently rolling
  hills in north and west; remainder is mountainous, especially
  Pyrenees in south, Alps in east
  French Guiana: low-lying coastal plains rising to hills and small
  mountains
  Guadeloupe: Basse-Terre is volcanic in origin with interior
  mountains; Grande-Terre is low limestone formation; most of the
  seven other islands are volcanic in origin
  Martinique: mountainous with indented coastline; dormant volcano
  Reunion: mostly rugged and mountainous; fertile lowlands along coast

French Polynesia
  mixture of rugged high islands and low islands with
  reefs

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  Ile Amsterdam (Ile Amsterdam et
  Ile Saint-Paul): a volcanic island with steep coastal cliffs; the
  center floor of the volcano is a large plateau
  Ile Saint-Paul (Ile Amsterdam et Ile Saint-Paul): triangular in
  shape, the island is the top of a volcano, rocky with steep cliffs
  on the eastern side; has active thermal springs
  Iles Crozet: a large archipelago formed from the Crozet Plateau is
  divided into two groups of islands
  Iles Kerguelen: the interior of the large island of Ile Kerguelen is
  composed of rugged terrain of high mountains, hills, valleys, and
  plains with a number of peninsulas stretching off its coasts
  Bassas da India (Iles Eparses): atoll, awash at high tide; shallow
  (15 m) lagoon
  Europa Island, Glorioso Islands, Juan de Nova Island: low, flat, and
  sandy
  Tromelin Island (Iles Eparses): low, flat, sandy; likely volcanic
  seamount

Gabon
  narrow coastal plain; hilly interior; savanna in east and south

Gambia, The
  flood plain of the Gambia River flanked by some low hills

Gaza Strip
  flat to rolling, sand- and dune-covered coastal plain

Georgia
  largely mountainous with Great Caucasus Mountains in the
  north and Lesser Caucasus Mountains in the south; Kolkhet'is Dablobi
  (Kolkhida Lowland) opens to the Black Sea in the west; Mtkvari River
  Basin in the east; good soils in river valley flood plains,
  foothills of Kolkhida Lowland

Germany
  lowlands in north, uplands in center, Bavarian Alps in south

Ghana
  mostly low plains with dissected plateau in south-central area

Gibraltar
  a narrow coastal lowland borders the Rock of Gibraltar

Greece
  mostly mountains with ranges extending into the sea as
  peninsulas or chains of islands

Greenland
  flat to gradually sloping icecap covers all but a narrow,
  mountainous, barren, rocky coast

Grenada
  volcanic in origin with central mountains

Guam
  volcanic origin, surrounded by coral reefs; relatively flat
  coralline limestone plateau (source of most fresh water), with steep
  coastal cliffs and narrow coastal plains in north, low hills in
  center, mountains in south

Guatemala
  mostly mountains with narrow coastal plains and rolling
  limestone plateau

Guernsey
  mostly level with low hills in southwest

Guinea
  generally flat coastal plain, hilly to mountainous interior

Guinea-Bissau
  mostly low coastal plain rising to savanna in east

Guyana
  mostly rolling highlands; low coastal plain; savanna in south

Haiti
  mostly rough and mountainous

Heard Island and McDonald Islands
  Heard Island - 80% ice-covered,
  bleak and mountainous, dominated by a large massif (Big Ben) and an
  active volcano (Mawson Peak); McDonald Islands - small and rocky

Holy See (Vatican City)
  urban; low hill

Honduras
  mostly mountains in interior, narrow coastal plains

Hong Kong
  hilly to mountainous with steep slopes; lowlands in north

Hungary
  mostly flat to rolling plains; hills and low mountains on
  the Slovakian border

Iceland
  mostly plateau interspersed with mountain peaks, icefields;
  coast deeply indented by bays and fiords

India
  upland plain (Deccan Plateau) in south, flat to rolling plain
  along the Ganges, deserts in west, Himalayas in north

Indian Ocean
  surface dominated by counterclockwise gyre (broad,
  circular system of currents) in the southern Indian Ocean; unique
  reversal of surface currents in the northern Indian Ocean; low
  atmospheric pressure over southwest Asia from hot, rising, summer
  air results in the southwest monsoon and southwest-to-northeast
  winds and currents, while high pressure over northern Asia from
  cold, falling, winter air results in the northeast monsoon and
  northeast-to-southwest winds and currents; ocean floor is dominated
  by the Mid-Indian Ocean Ridge and subdivided by the Southeast Indian
  Ocean Ridge, Southwest Indian Ocean Ridge, and Ninetyeast Ridge

Indonesia
  mostly coastal lowlands; larger islands have interior
  mountains

Iran
  rugged, mountainous rim; high, central basin with deserts,
  mountains; small, discontinuous plains along both coasts

Iraq
  mostly broad plains; reedy marshes along Iranian border in
  south with large flooded areas; mountains along borders with Iran
  and Turkey

Ireland
  mostly level to rolling interior plain surrounded by rugged
  hills and low mountains; sea cliffs on west coast

Isle of Man
  hills in north and south bisected by central valley

Israel
  Negev desert in the south; low coastal plain; central
  mountains; Jordan Rift Valley

Italy
  mostly rugged and mountainous; some plains, coastal lowlands

Jamaica
  mostly mountains, with narrow, discontinuous coastal plain

Jan Mayen
  volcanic island, partly covered by glaciers

Japan
  mostly rugged and mountainous

Jersey
  gently rolling plain with low, rugged hills along north coast

Jordan
  mostly desert plateau in east, highland area in west; Great
  Rift Valley separates East and West Banks of the Jordan River

Kazakhstan
  extends from the Volga to the Altai Mountains and from
  the plains in western Siberia to oases and desert in Central Asia

Kenya
  low plains rise to central highlands bisected by Great Rift
  Valley; fertile plateau in west

Kiribati
  mostly low-lying coral atolls surrounded by extensive reefs

Korea, North
  mostly hills and mountains separated by deep, narrow
  valleys; coastal plains wide in west, discontinuous in east

Korea, South
  mostly hills and mountains; wide coastal plains in west
  and south

Kosovo
  flat fluvial basin with an elevation of 400-700 m above sea
  level surrounded by several high mountain ranges with elevations of
  2,000 to 2,500 m

Kuwait
  flat to slightly undulating desert plain

Kyrgyzstan
  peaks of Tien Shan and associated valleys and basins
  encompass entire nation

Laos
  mostly rugged mountains; some plains and plateaus

Latvia
  low plain

Lebanon
  narrow coastal plain; El Beqaa (Bekaa Valley) separates
  Lebanon and Anti-Lebanon Mountains

Lesotho
  mostly highland with plateaus, hills, and mountains

Liberia
  mostly flat to rolling coastal plains rising to rolling
  plateau and low mountains in northeast

Libya
  mostly barren, flat to undulating plains, plateaus, depressions

Liechtenstein
  mostly mountainous (Alps) with Rhine Valley in western
  third

Lithuania
  lowland, many scattered small lakes, fertile soil

Luxembourg
  mostly gently rolling uplands with broad, shallow
  valleys; uplands to slightly mountainous in the north; steep slope
  down to Moselle flood plain in the southeast

Macau
  generally flat

Macedonia
  mountainous territory covered with deep basins and
  valleys; three large lakes, each divided by a frontier line; country
  bisected by the Vardar River

Madagascar
  narrow coastal plain, high plateau and mountains in center

Malawi
  narrow elongated plateau with rolling plains, rounded hills,
  some mountains

Malaysia
  coastal plains rising to hills and mountains

Maldives
  flat, with white sandy beaches

Mali
  mostly flat to rolling northern plains covered by sand; savanna
  in south, rugged hills in northeast

Malta
  mostly low, rocky, flat to dissected plains; many coastal
  cliffs

Marshall Islands
  low coral limestone and sand islands

Mauritania
  mostly barren, flat plains of the Sahara; some central
  hills

Mauritius
  small coastal plain rising to discontinuous mountains
  encircling central plateau

Mayotte
  generally undulating, with deep ravines and ancient volcanic
  peaks

Mexico
  high, rugged mountains; low coastal plains; high plateaus;
  desert

Micronesia, Federated States of
  islands vary geologically from high
  mountainous islands to low, coral atolls; volcanic outcroppings on
  Pohnpei, Kosrae, and Chuuk

Moldova
  rolling steppe, gradual slope south to Black Sea

Monaco
  hilly, rugged, rocky

Mongolia
  vast semidesert and desert plains, grassy steppe, mountains
  in west and southwest; Gobi Desert in south-central

Montenegro
  highly indented coastline with narrow coastal plain
  backed by rugged high limestone mountains and plateaus

Montserrat
  volcanic island, mostly mountainous, with small coastal
  lowland

Morocco
  northern coast and interior are mountainous with large areas
  of bordering plateaus, intermontane valleys, and rich coastal plains

Mozambique
  mostly coastal lowlands, uplands in center, high plateaus
  in northwest, mountains in west

Namibia
  mostly high plateau; Namib Desert along coast; Kalahari
  Desert in east

Nauru
  sandy beach rises to fertile ring around raised coral reefs
  with phosphate plateau in center

Navassa Island
  raised coral and limestone plateau, flat to
  undulating; ringed by vertical white cliffs (9 to 15 m high)

Nepal
  Tarai or flat river plain of the Ganges in south, central hill
  region, rugged Himalayas in north

Netherlands
  mostly coastal lowland and reclaimed land (polders);
  some hills in southeast

Netherlands Antilles
  generally hilly, volcanic interiors

New Caledonia
  coastal plains with interior mountains

New Zealand
  predominately mountainous with some large coastal plains

Nicaragua
  extensive Atlantic coastal plains rising to central
  interior mountains; narrow Pacific coastal plain interrupted by
  volcanoes

Niger
  predominately desert plains and sand dunes; flat to rolling
  plains in south; hills in north

Nigeria
  southern lowlands merge into central hills and plateaus;
  mountains in southeast, plains in north

Niue
  steep limestone cliffs along coast, central plateau

Norfolk Island
  volcanic formation with mostly rolling plains

Northern Mariana Islands
  southern islands are limestone with level
  terraces and fringing coral reefs; northern islands are volcanic

Norway
  glaciated; mostly high plateaus and rugged mountains broken
  by fertile valleys; small, scattered plains; coastline deeply
  indented by fjords; arctic tundra in north

Oman
  central desert plain, rugged mountains in north and south

Pacific Ocean
  surface currents in the northern Pacific are dominated
  by a clockwise, warm-water gyre (broad circular system of currents)
  and in the southern Pacific by a counterclockwise, cool-water gyre;
  in the northern Pacific, sea ice forms in the Bering Sea and Sea of
  Okhotsk in winter; in the southern Pacific, sea ice from Antarctica
  reaches its northernmost extent in October; the ocean floor in the
  eastern Pacific is dominated by the East Pacific Rise, while the
  western Pacific is dissected by deep trenches, including the Mariana
  Trench, which is the world's deepest

Pakistan
  flat Indus plain in east; mountains in north and northwest;
  Balochistan plateau in west

Palau
  varying geologically from the high, mountainous main island of
  Babelthuap to low, coral islands usually fringed by large barrier
  reefs

Panama
  interior mostly steep, rugged mountains and dissected, upland
  plains; coastal areas largely plains and rolling hills

Papua New Guinea
  mostly mountains with coastal lowlands and rolling
  foothills

Paracel Islands
  mostly low and flat

Paraguay
  grassy plains and wooded hills east of Rio Paraguay; Gran
  Chaco region west of Rio Paraguay mostly low, marshy plain near the
  river, and dry forest and thorny scrub elsewhere

Peru
  western coastal plain (costa), high and rugged Andes in center
  (sierra), eastern lowland jungle of Amazon Basin (selva)

Philippines
  mostly mountains with narrow to extensive coastal
  lowlands

Pitcairn Islands
  rugged volcanic formation; rocky coastline with
  cliffs

Poland
  mostly flat plain; mountains along southern border

Portugal
  mountainous north of the Tagus River, rolling plains in
  south

Puerto Rico
  mostly mountains with coastal plain belt in north;
  mountains precipitous to sea on west coast; sandy beaches along most
  coastal areas

Qatar
  mostly flat and barren desert covered with loose sand and
  gravel

Romania
  central Transylvanian Basin is separated from the Plain of
  Moldavia on the east by the Carpathian Mountains and separated from
  the Walachian Plain on the south by the Transylvanian Alps

Russia
  broad plain with low hills west of Urals; vast coniferous
  forest and tundra in Siberia; uplands and mountains along southern
  border regions

Rwanda
  mostly grassy uplands and hills; relief is mountainous with
  altitude declining from west to east

Saint Barthelemy
  hilly, almost completely surrounded by
  shallow-water reefs, with 20 beaches

Saint Helena
  the islands of this group result from volcanic activity
  associated with the Atlantic Mid-Ocean Ridge
  Saint Helena: rugged, volcanic; small scattered plateaus and plains
  Ascension: surface covered by lava flows and cinder cones of 44
  dormant volcanoes; ground rises to the east
  Tristan da Cunha: sheer cliffs line the coastline of the nearly
  circular island; the flanks of the central volcanic peak are deeply
  dissected; narrow coastal plain lies between The Peak and the
  coastal cliffs

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  volcanic with mountainous interiors

Saint Lucia
  volcanic and mountainous with some broad, fertile valleys

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  mostly barren rock

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  volcanic, mountainous

Samoa
  two main islands (Savaii, Upolu) and several smaller islands
  and uninhabited islets; narrow coastal plain with volcanic, rocky,
  rugged mountains in interior

San Marino
  rugged mountains

Sao Tome and Principe
  volcanic, mountainous

Saudi Arabia
  mostly uninhabited, sandy desert

Senegal
  generally low, rolling, plains rising to foothills in
  southeast

Serbia
  extremely varied; to the north, rich fertile plains; to the
  east, limestone ranges and basins; to the southeast, ancient
  mountains and hills

Seychelles
  Mahe Group is granitic, narrow coastal strip, rocky,
  hilly; others are coral, flat, elevated reefs

Sierra Leone
  coastal belt of mangrove swamps, wooded hill country,
  upland plateau, mountains in east

Singapore
  lowland; gently undulating central plateau contains water
  catchment area and nature preserve

Slovakia
  rugged mountains in the central and northern part and
  lowlands in the south

Slovenia
  a short coastal strip on the Adriatic, an alpine mountain
  region adjacent to Italy and Austria, mixed mountains and valleys
  with numerous rivers to the east

Solomon Islands
  mostly rugged mountains with some low coral atolls

Somalia
  mostly flat to undulating plateau rising to hills in north

South Africa
  vast interior plateau rimmed by rugged hills and narrow
  coastal plain

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  most of the islands,
  rising steeply from the sea, are rugged and mountainous; South
  Georgia is largely barren and has steep, glacier-covered mountains;
  the South Sandwich Islands are of volcanic origin with some active
  volcanoes

Southern Ocean
  the Southern Ocean is deep, 4,000 to 5,000 m over
  most of its extent with only limited areas of shallow water; the
  Antarctic continental shelf is generally narrow and unusually deep,
  its edge lying at depths of 400 to 800 m (the global mean is 133 m);
  the Antarctic icepack grows from an average minimum of 2.6 million
  sq km in March to about 18.8 million sq km in September, better than
  a sixfold increase in area; the Antarctic Circumpolar Current
  (21,000 km in length) moves perpetually eastward; it is the world's
  largest ocean current, transporting 130 million cubic meters of
  water per second - 100 times the flow of all the world's rivers

Spain
  large, flat to dissected plateau surrounded by rugged hills;
  Pyrenees in north

Spratly Islands
  flat

Sri Lanka
  mostly low, flat to rolling plain; mountains in
  south-central interior

Sudan
  generally flat, featureless plain; mountains in far south,
  northeast and west; desert dominates the north

Suriname
  mostly rolling hills; narrow coastal plain with swamps

Svalbard
  wild, rugged mountains; much of high land ice covered; west
  coast clear of ice about one-half of the year; fjords along west and
  north coasts

Swaziland
  mostly mountains and hills; some moderately sloping plains

Sweden
  mostly flat or gently rolling lowlands; mountains in west

Switzerland
  mostly mountains (Alps in south, Jura in northwest) with
  a central plateau of rolling hills, plains, and large lakes

Syria
  primarily semiarid and desert plateau; narrow coastal plain;
  mountains in west

Taiwan
  eastern two-thirds mostly rugged mountains; flat to gently
  rolling plains in west

Tajikistan
  Pamir and Alay Mountains dominate landscape; western
  Fergana Valley in north, Kofarnihon and Vakhsh Valleys in southwest

Tanzania
  plains along coast; central plateau; highlands in north,
  south

Thailand
  central plain; Khorat Plateau in the east; mountains
  elsewhere

Timor-Leste
  mountainous

Togo
  gently rolling savanna in north; central hills; southern
  plateau; low coastal plain with extensive lagoons and marshes

Tokelau
  low-lying coral atolls enclosing large lagoons

Tonga
  most islands have limestone base formed from uplifted coral
  formation; others have limestone overlying volcanic base

Trinidad and Tobago
  mostly plains with some hills and low mountains

Tunisia
  mountains in north; hot, dry central plain; semiarid south
  merges into the Sahara

Turkey
  high central plateau (Anatolia); narrow coastal plain;
  several mountain ranges

Turkmenistan
  flat-to-rolling sandy desert with dunes rising to
  mountains in the south; low mountains along border with Iran;
  borders Caspian Sea in west

Turks and Caicos Islands
  low, flat limestone; extensive marshes and
  mangrove swamps

Tuvalu
  very low-lying and narrow coral atolls

Uganda
  mostly plateau with rim of mountains

Ukraine
  most of Ukraine consists of fertile plains (steppes) and
  plateaus, mountains being found only in the west (the Carpathians),
  and in the Crimean Peninsula in the extreme south

United Arab Emirates
  flat, barren coastal plain merging into rolling
  sand dunes of vast desert wasteland; mountains in east

United Kingdom
  mostly rugged hills and low mountains; level to
  rolling plains in east and southeast

United States
  vast central plain, mountains in west, hills and low
  mountains in east; rugged mountains and broad river valleys in
  Alaska; rugged, volcanic topography in Hawaii

United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
  low and nearly level
  sandy coral islands with narrow fringing reefs that have developed
  at the top of submerged volcanic mountains, which in most cases rise
  steeply from the ocean floor

Uruguay
  mostly rolling plains and low hills; fertile coastal lowland

Uzbekistan
  mostly flat-to-rolling sandy desert with dunes; broad,
  flat intensely irrigated river valleys along course of Amu Darya,
  Syr Darya (Sirdaryo), and Zarafshon; Fergana Valley in east
  surrounded by mountainous Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan; shrinking Aral
  Sea in west

Vanuatu
  mostly mountainous islands of volcanic origin; narrow
  coastal plains

Venezuela
  Andes Mountains and Maracaibo Lowlands in northwest;
  central plains (llanos); Guiana Highlands in southeast

Vietnam
  low, flat delta in south and north; central highlands;
  hilly, mountainous in far north and northwest

Virgin Islands
  mostly hilly to rugged and mountainous with little
  level land

Wake Island
  atoll of three low coral islands, Peale, Wake, and
  Wilkes, built up on an underwater volcano; central lagoon is former
  crater, islands are part of the rim

Wallis and Futuna
  volcanic origin; low hills

West Bank
  mostly rugged dissected upland, some vegetation in west,
  but barren in east

Western Sahara
  mostly low, flat desert with large areas of rocky or
  sandy surfaces rising to small mountains in south and northeast

World
  the greatest ocean depth is the Mariana Trench at 10,924 m in
  the Pacific Ocean

Yemen
  narrow coastal plain backed by flat-topped hills and rugged
  mountains; dissected upland desert plains in center slope into the
  desert interior of the Arabian Peninsula

Zambia
  mostly high plateau with some hills and mountains

Zimbabwe
  mostly high plateau with higher central plateau (high
  veld); mountains in east

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2127  Total fertility rate (children born/woman)


Afghanistan
  6.58 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Albania
  2.02 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Algeria
  1.82 children born/woman (2008 est.)

American Samoa
  3.35 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Andorra
  1.32 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Angola
  6.2 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Anguilla
  1.75 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  2.08 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Argentina
  2.37 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Armenia
  1.35 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Aruba
  1.85 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Australia
  1.78 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Austria
  1.38 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Azerbaijan
  2.05 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Bahamas, The
  2.13 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Bahrain
  2.53 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Bangladesh
  3.08 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Barbados
  1.65 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Belarus
  1.23 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Belgium
  1.65 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Belize
  3.44 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Benin
  5.58 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Bermuda
  1.88 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Bhutan
  2.48 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Bolivia
  2.67 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  1.24 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Botswana
  2.66 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Brazil
  2.22 children born/woman (2008 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  1.71 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Brunei
  1.94 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Bulgaria
  1.4 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Burkina Faso
  6.34 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Burma
  1.92 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Burundi
  6.4 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Cambodia
  3.08 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Cameroon
  4.41 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Canada
  1.57 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Cape Verde
  3.17 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Cayman Islands
  1.89 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Central African Republic
  4.23 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Chad
  5.43 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Chile
  1.95 children born/woman (2008 est.)

China
  1.77 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Christmas Island
  NA (2008 est.)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  NA (2008 est.)

Colombia
  2.49 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Comoros
  4.9 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  6.28 children born/woman (2008
  est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  5.92 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Cook Islands
  3.1 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Costa Rica
  2.17 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  4.23 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Croatia
  1.41 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Cuba
  1.6 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Cyprus
  1.79 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Czech Republic
  1.23 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Denmark
  1.74 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Djibouti
  5.14 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Dominica
  2.1 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Dominican Republic
  2.78 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Ecuador
  2.59 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Egypt
  2.72 children born/woman (2008 est.)

El Salvador
  3.04 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  5.16 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Eritrea
  4.84 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Estonia
  1.42 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Ethiopia
  6.17 children born/woman (2008 est.)

European Union
  1.5 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  NA (2008 est.)

Faroe Islands
  2.45 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Fiji
  2.68 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Finland
  1.73 children born/woman (2008 est.)

France
  1.98 children born/woman (2008 est.)

French Polynesia
  1.95 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Gabon
  4.68 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Gambia, The
  5.13 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Gaza Strip
  5.19 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Georgia
  1.43 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Germany
  1.41 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Ghana
  3.78 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Gibraltar
  1.65 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Greece
  1.36 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Greenland
  2.22 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Grenada
  2.27 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Guam
  2.55 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Guatemala
  3.59 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Guernsey
  1.4 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Guinea
  5.25 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  4.72 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Guyana
  2.03 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Haiti
  4.79 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Honduras
  3.38 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Hong Kong
  1 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Hungary
  1.34 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Iceland
  1.91 children born/woman (2008 est.)

India
  2.76 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Indonesia
  2.34 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Iran
  1.71 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Iraq
  3.97 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Ireland
  1.85 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Isle of Man
  1.65 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Israel
  2.77 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Italy
  1.3 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Jamaica
  2.3 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Japan
  1.22 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Jersey
  1.58 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Jordan
  2.47 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Kazakhstan
  1.88 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Kenya
  4.7 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Kiribati
  4.08 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Korea, North
  2 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Korea, South
  1.2 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Kuwait
  2.81 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  2.67 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Laos
  4.5 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Latvia
  1.29 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Lebanon
  1.87 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Lesotho
  3.13 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Liberia
  5.87 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Libya
  3.15 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Liechtenstein
  1.51 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Lithuania
  1.22 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Luxembourg
  1.78 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Macau
  0.9 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Macedonia
  1.58 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Madagascar
  5.19 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Malawi
  5.67 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Malaysia
  2.98 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Maldives
  1.97 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Mali
  7.34 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Malta
  1.51 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Marshall Islands
  3.68 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Mauritania
  5.69 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Mauritius
  1.83 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Mayotte
  5.6 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Mexico
  2.37 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  2.98 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Moldova
  1.26 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Monaco
  1.75 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Mongolia
  2.24 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Montserrat
  1.22 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Morocco
  2.57 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Mozambique
  5.24 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Namibia
  2.81 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Nauru
  2.94 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Nepal
  3.91 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Netherlands
  1.66 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  1.98 children born/woman (2008 est.)

New Caledonia
  2.21 children born/woman (2008 est.)

New Zealand
  2.11 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Nicaragua
  2.63 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Niger
  7.29 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Nigeria
  5.01 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Niue
  NA (2008 est.)

Norfolk Island
  NA (2008 est.)

Northern Mariana Islands
  1.18 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Norway
  1.78 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Oman
  5.62 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Pakistan
  3.73 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Palau
  2.45 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Panama
  2.57 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  3.71 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Paraguay
  3.8 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Peru
  2.42 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Philippines
  3.32 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Pitcairn Islands
  NA (2008 est.)

Poland
  1.27 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Portugal
  1.49 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Puerto Rico
  1.76 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Qatar
  2.47 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Romania
  1.38 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Russia
  1.4 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Rwanda
  5.31 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Saint Helena
  1.56 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  2.28 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Saint Lucia
  1.86 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  1.98 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  1.79 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Samoa
  4.18 children born/woman (2008 est.)

San Marino
  1.35 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe
  5.43 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  3.89 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Senegal
  4.86 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Serbia
  1.69 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Seychelles
  1.73 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Sierra Leone
  5.95 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Singapore
  1.08 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Slovakia
  1.34 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Slovenia
  1.27 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Solomon Islands
  3.65 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Somalia
  6.6 children born/woman (2008 est.)

South Africa
  2.43 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Spain
  1.3 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Sri Lanka
  2.02 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Sudan
  4.58 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Suriname
  2.01 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Svalbard
  NA (2008 est.)

Swaziland
  3.34 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Sweden
  1.67 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Switzerland
  1.44 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Syria
  3.21 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Taiwan
  1.13 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Tajikistan
  3.04 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Tanzania
  4.62 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Thailand
  1.64 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Timor-Leste
  3.36 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Togo
  4.85 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Tokelau
  NA (2008 est.)

Tonga
  2.5 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  1.73 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Tunisia
  1.73 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Turkey
  1.87 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Turkmenistan
  3.07 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  2.98 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Tuvalu
  2.94 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Uganda
  6.81 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Ukraine
  1.25 children born/woman (2008 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  2.43 children born/woman (2008 est.)

United Kingdom
  1.66 children born/woman (2008 est.)

United States
  2.1 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Uruguay
  1.94 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Uzbekistan
  2.01 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Vanuatu
  2.57 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Venezuela
  2.52 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Vietnam
  1.86 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Virgin Islands
  1.88 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Wallis and Futuna
  NA (2008 est.)

West Bank
  3.31 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Western Sahara
  NA 5.69 children born/woman (2008 est.)

World
  2.61 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Yemen
  6.41 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Zambia
  5.23 children born/woman (2008 est.)

Zimbabwe
  3.72 children born/woman (2008 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2128  Government type


Afghanistan
  Islamic republic

Albania
  emerging democracy

Algeria
  republic

American Samoa
  NA

Andorra
  parliamentary democracy (since March 1993) that retains as
  its chiefs of state a coprincipality; the two princes are the
  president of France and bishop of Seo de Urgel, Spain, who are
  represented locally by coprinces' representatives

Angola
  republic; multiparty presidential regime

Anguilla
  NA

Antarctica
  Antarctic Treaty Summary - the Antarctic Treaty, signed
  on 1 December 1959 and entered into force on 23 June 1961,
  establishes the legal framework for the management of Antarctica;
  the 30th Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting was held in Delhi,
  India in April/May 2007; at these periodic meetings, decisions are
  made by consensus (not by vote) of all consultative member nations;
  at the end of 2007, there were 46 treaty member nations: 28
  consultative and 18 non-consultative; consultative (decision-making)
  members include the seven nations that claim portions of Antarctica
  as national territory (some claims overlap) and 21 non-claimant
  nations; the US and Russia have reserved the right to make claims;
  the US does not recognize the claims of others; Antarctica is
  administered through meetings of the consultative member nations;
  decisions from these meetings are carried out by these member
  nations (with respect to their own nationals and operations) in
  accordance with their own national laws; the years in parentheses
  indicate when a consultative member-nation acceded to the Treaty and
  when it was accepted as a consultative member, while no date
  indicates the country was an original 1959 treaty signatory;
  claimant nations are - Argentina, Australia, Chile, France, NZ,
  Norway, and the UK. Nonclaimant consultative nations are - Belgium,
  Brazil (1975/1983), Bulgaria (1978/1998) China (1983/1985), Ecuador
  (1987/1990), Finland (1984/1989), Germany (1979/1981), India
  (1983/1983), Italy (1981/1987), Japan, South Korea (1986/1989),
  Netherlands (1967/1990), Peru (1981/1989), Poland (1961/1977),
  Russia, South Africa, Spain (1982/1988), Sweden (1984/1988), Ukraine
  (1992/2004), Uruguay (1980/1985), and the US; non-consultative
  members, with year of accession in parentheses, are - Austria
  (1987), Belarus (2006), Canada (1988), Colombia (1989), Cuba (1984),
  Czech Republic (1962/1993), Denmark (1965), Estonia (2001), Greece
  (1987), Guatemala (1991), Hungary (1984), North Korea (1987), Papua
  New Guinea (1981), Romania (1971), Slovakia (1962/1993), Switzerland
  (1990), Turkey (1996), and Venezuela (1999); note - Czechoslovakia
  acceded to the Treaty in 1962 and separated into the Czech Republic
  and Slovakia in 1993; Article 1 - area to be used for peaceful
  purposes only; military activity, such as weapons testing, is
  prohibited, but military personnel and equipment may be used for
  scientific research or any other peaceful purpose; Article 2 -
  freedom of scientific investigation and cooperation shall continue;
  Article 3 - free exchange of information and personnel, cooperation
  with the UN and other international agencies; Article 4 - does not
  recognize, dispute, or establish territorial claims and no new
  claims shall be asserted while the treaty is in force; Article 5 -
  prohibits nuclear explosions or disposal of radioactive wastes;
  Article 6 - includes under the treaty all land and ice shelves south
  of 60 degrees 00 minutes south and reserves high seas rights;
  Article 7 - treaty-state observers have free access, including
  aerial observation, to any area and may inspect all stations,
  installations, and equipment; advance notice of all expeditions and
  of the introduction of military personnel must be given; Article 8 -
  allows for jurisdiction over observers and scientists by their own
  states; Article 9 - frequent consultative meetings take place among
  member nations; Article 10 - treaty states will discourage
  activities by any country in Antarctica that are contrary to the
  treaty; Article 11 - disputes to be settled peacefully by the
  parties concerned or, ultimately, by the ICJ; Articles 12, 13, 14 -
  deal with upholding, interpreting, and amending the treaty among
  involved nations; other agreements - some 200 recommendations
  adopted at treaty consultative meetings and ratified by governments
  include - Agreed Measures for Fauna and Flora (1964) which were
  later incorporated into the Environmental Protocol; Convention for
  the Conservation of Antarctic Seals (1972); Convention on the
  Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (1980); a mineral
  resources agreement was signed in 1988 but remains unratified; the
  Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty was
  signed 4 October 1991 and entered into force 14 January 1998; this
  agreement provides for the protection of the Antarctic environment
  through six specific annexes: 1) environmental impact assessment, 2)
  conservation of Antarctic fauna and flora, 3) waste disposal and
  waste management, 4) prevention of marine pollution, 5) area
  protection and management and 6) liability arising from
  environmental emergencies; it prohibits all activities relating to
  mineral resources except scientific research; a permanent Antarctic
  Treaty Secretariat was established in 2004 in Buenos Aires, Argentina

Antigua and Barbuda
  constitutional monarchy with a parliamentary
  system of government

Argentina
  republic

Armenia
  republic

Aruba
  parliamentary democracy

Australia
  federal parliamentary democracy

Austria
  federal republic

Azerbaijan
  republic

Bahamas, The
  constitutional parliamentary democracy

Bahrain
  constitutional monarchy

Bangladesh
  parliamentary democracy

Barbados
  parliamentary democracy

Belarus
  republic in name, although in fact a dictatorship

Belgium
  federal parliamentary democracy under a constitutional
  monarchy

Belize
  parliamentary democracy

Benin
  republic

Bermuda
  parliamentary; self-governing territory

Bhutan
  in transition to constitutional monarchy; special treaty
  relationship with India

Bolivia
  republic

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  emerging federal democratic republic

Botswana
  parliamentary republic

Brazil
  federal republic

British Virgin Islands
  NA

Brunei
  constitutional sultanate

Bulgaria
  parliamentary democracy

Burkina Faso
  parliamentary republic

Burma
  military junta

Burundi
  republic

Cambodia
  multiparty democracy under a constitutional monarchy

Cameroon
  republic; multiparty presidential regime

Canada
  constitutional monarchy that is also a parliamentary
  democracy and a federation

Cape Verde
  republic

Cayman Islands
  British crown colony

Central African Republic
  republic

Chad
  republic

Chile
  republic

China
  Communist state

Christmas Island
  NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  NA

Colombia
  republic; executive branch dominates government structure

Comoros
  republic

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  republic

Congo, Republic of the
  republic

Cook Islands
  self-governing parliamentary democracy

Costa Rica
  democratic republic

Cote d'Ivoire
  republic; multiparty presidential regime established
  1960
  note: the government is currently operating under a power-sharing
  agreement mandated by international mediators

Croatia
  presidential/parliamentary democracy

Cuba
  Communist state

Cyprus
  republic
  note: a separation of the two ethnic communities inhabiting the
  island began following the outbreak of communal strife in 1963; this
  separation was further solidified after the Turkish intervention in
  July 1974 that followed a Greek junta-supported coup attempt gave
  the Turkish Cypriots de facto control in the north; Greek Cypriots
  control the only internationally recognized government; on 15
  November 1983 Turkish Cypriot "President" Rauf DENKTASH declared
  independence and the formation of a "Turkish Republic of Northern
  Cyprus" (TRNC), which is recognized only by Turkey

Czech Republic
  parliamentary democracy

Denmark
  constitutional monarchy

Djibouti
  republic

Dominica
  parliamentary democracy

Dominican Republic
  democratic republic

Ecuador
  republic

Egypt
  republic

El Salvador
  republic

Equatorial Guinea
  republic

Eritrea
  transitional government
  note: following a successful referendum on independence for the
  Autonomous Region of Eritrea on 23-25 April 1993, a National
  Assembly, composed entirely of the People's Front for Democracy and
  Justice or PFDJ, was established as a transitional legislature; a
  Constitutional Commission was also established to draft a
  constitution; ISAIAS Afworki was elected president by the
  transitional legislature; the constitution, ratified in May 1997,
  did not enter into effect, pending parliamentary and presidential
  elections; parliamentary elections were scheduled in December 2001,
  but were postponed indefinitely; currently the sole legal party is
  the People's Front for Democracy and Justice (PFDJ)

Estonia
  parliamentary republic

Ethiopia
  federal republic

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  NA

Faroe Islands
  NA

Fiji
  republic

Finland
  republic

France
  republic

French Polynesia
  NA

Gabon
  republic; multiparty presidential regime

Gambia, The
  republic

Georgia
  republic

Germany
  federal republic

Ghana
  constitutional democracy

Gibraltar
  NA

Greece
  parliamentary republic

Greenland
  parliamentary democracy within a constitutional monarchy

Grenada
  parliamentary democracy

Guam
  NA

Guatemala
  constitutional democratic republic

Guernsey
  parliamentary democracy

Guinea
  republic

Guinea-Bissau
  republic

Guyana
  republic

Haiti
  republic

Holy See (Vatican City)
  ecclesiastical

Honduras
  democratic constitutional republic

Hong Kong
  limited democracy

Hungary
  parliamentary democracy

Iceland
  constitutional republic

India
  federal republic

Indonesia
  republic

Iran
  theocratic republic

Iraq
  parliamentary democracy

Ireland
  republic, parliamentary democracy

Isle of Man
  parliamentary democracy

Israel
  parliamentary democracy

Italy
  republic

Jamaica
  constitutional parliamentary democracy

Japan
  constitutional monarchy with a parliamentary government

Jersey
  parliamentary democracy

Jordan
  constitutional monarchy

Kazakhstan
  republic; authoritarian presidential rule, with little
  power outside the executive branch

Kenya
  republic

Kiribati
  republic

Korea, North
  Communist state one-man dictatorship

Korea, South
  republic

Kosovo
  republic

Kuwait
  constitutional emirate

Kyrgyzstan
  republic

Laos
  Communist state

Latvia
  parliamentary democracy

Lebanon
  republic

Lesotho
  parliamentary constitutional monarchy

Liberia
  republic

Libya
  Jamahiriya (a state of the masses) in theory, governed by the
  populace through local councils; in practice, an authoritarian state

Liechtenstein
  constitutional monarchy

Lithuania
  parliamentary democracy

Luxembourg
  constitutional monarchy

Macau
  limited democracy

Macedonia
  parliamentary democracy

Madagascar
  republic

Malawi
  multiparty democracy

Malaysia
  constitutional monarchy
  note: nominally headed by paramount ruler and a bicameral Parliament
  consisting of a nonelected upper house and an elected lower house;
  all Peninsular Malaysian states have hereditary rulers except Melaka
  and Pulau Pinang (Penang); those two states along with Sabah and
  Sarawak in East Malaysia have governors appointed by government;
  powers of state governments are limited by federal constitution;
  under terms of federation, Sabah and Sarawak retain certain
  constitutional prerogatives (e.g., right to maintain their own
  immigration controls); Sabah holds 25 seats in House of
  Representatives; Sarawak has 31 seats

Maldives
  republic

Mali
  republic

Malta
  republic

Marshall Islands
  constitutional government in free association with
  the US; the Compact of Free Association entered into force 21
  October 1986 and the Amended Compact entered into force in May 2004

Mauritania
  Democratic Republic

Mauritius
  parliamentary democracy

Mayotte
  NA

Mexico
  federal republic

Micronesia, Federated States of
  constitutional government in free
  association with the US; the Compact of Free Association entered
  into force 3 November 1986 and the Amended Compact entered into
  force May 2004

Moldova
  republic

Monaco
  constitutional monarchy

Mongolia
  mixed parliamentary/presidential

Montenegro
  republic

Montserrat
  NA

Morocco
  constitutional monarchy

Mozambique
  republic

Namibia
  republic

Nauru
  republic

Nepal
  democratic republic

Netherlands
  constitutional monarchy

Netherlands Antilles
  parliamentary

New Caledonia
  NA

New Zealand
  parliamentary democracy

Nicaragua
  republic

Niger
  republic

Nigeria
  federal republic

Niue
  self-governing parliamentary democracy

Norfolk Island
  NA

Northern Mariana Islands
  commonwealth; self-governing with locally
  elected governor, lieutenant governor, and legislature

Norway
  constitutional monarchy

Oman
  monarchy

Pakistan
  federal republic

Palau
  constitutional government in free association with the US; the
  Compact of Free Association entered into force 1 October 1994

Panama
  constitutional democracy

Papua New Guinea
  constitutional parliamentary democracy

Paraguay
  constitutional republic

Peru
  constitutional republic

Philippines
  republic

Pitcairn Islands
  NA

Poland
  republic

Portugal
  republic; parliamentary democracy

Puerto Rico
  commonwealth

Qatar
  emirate

Romania
  republic

Russia
  federation

Rwanda
  republic; presidential, multiparty system

Saint Helena
  NA

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  parliamentary democracy

Saint Lucia
  parliamentary democracy

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  NA

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  parliamentary democracy

Samoa
  parliamentary democracy

San Marino
  republic

Sao Tome and Principe
  republic

Saudi Arabia
  monarchy

Senegal
  republic

Serbia
  republic

Seychelles
  republic

Sierra Leone
  constitutional democracy

Singapore
  parliamentary republic

Slovakia
  parliamentary democracy

Slovenia
  parliamentary republic

Solomon Islands
  parliamentary democracy

Somalia
  no permanent national government; transitional,
  parliamentary federal government

South Africa
  republic

Spain
  parliamentary monarchy

Sri Lanka
  republic

Sudan
  Government of National Unity (GNU) - the National Congress
  Party (NCP) and Sudan People's Liberation Movement (SPLM) formed a
  power-sharing government under the 2005 Comprehensive Peace
  Agreement (CPA); the NCP, which came to power by military coup in
  1989, is the majority partner; the agreement stipulates national
  elections in 2009

Suriname
  constitutional democracy

Svalbard
  NA

Swaziland
  monarchy

Sweden
  constitutional monarchy

Switzerland
  formally a confederation but similar in structure to a
  federal republic

Syria
  republic under an authoritarian military-dominated regime

Taiwan
  multiparty democracy

Tajikistan
  republic

Tanzania
  republic

Thailand
  constitutional monarchy

Timor-Leste
  republic

Togo
  republic under transition to multiparty democratic rule

Tokelau
  NA

Tonga
  constitutional monarchy

Trinidad and Tobago
  parliamentary democracy

Tunisia
  republic

Turkey
  republican parliamentary democracy

Turkmenistan
  republic; authoritarian presidential rule, with little
  power outside the executive branch

Turks and Caicos Islands
  NA

Tuvalu
  constitutional monarchy with a parliamentary democracy

Uganda
  republic

Ukraine
  republic

United Arab Emirates
  federation with specified powers delegated to
  the UAE federal government and other powers reserved to member
  emirates

United Kingdom
  constitutional monarchy

United States
  Constitution-based federal republic; strong democratic
  tradition

Uruguay
  constitutional republic

Uzbekistan
  republic; authoritarian presidential rule, with little
  power outside the executive branch

Vanuatu
  parliamentary republic

Venezuela
  federal republic

Vietnam
  Communist state

Virgin Islands
  NA

Wallis and Futuna
  NA

Western Sahara
  legal status of territory and issue of sovereignty
  unresolved; territory contested by Morocco and Polisario Front
  (Popular Front for the Liberation of the Saguia el Hamra and Rio de
  Oro), which in February 1976 formally proclaimed a
  government-in-exile of the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic (SADR),
  led by President Mohamed ABDELAZIZ; territory partitioned between
  Morocco and Mauritania in April 1976, with Morocco acquiring
  northern two-thirds; Mauritania, under pressure from Polisario
  guerrillas, abandoned all claims to its portion in August 1979;
  Morocco moved to occupy that sector shortly thereafter and has since
  asserted administrative control; the Polisario's government-in-exile
  was seated as an Organization of African Unity (OAU) member in 1984;
  guerrilla activities continued sporadically until a UN-monitored
  cease-fire was implemented on 6 September 1991 (Security Council
  Resolution 690) by the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in
  Western Sahara or MINURSO

Yemen
  republic

Zambia
  republic

Zimbabwe
  parliamentary democracy

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2129  Unemployment rate (%)


Afghanistan
  40% (2005 est.)

Albania
  13.2% official rate, but may exceed 30% due to preponderance
  of near-subsistence farming (2007 est.)

Algeria
  11.8% (2007 est.)

American Samoa
  29.8% (2005)

Andorra
  0% (1996 est.)

Angola
  extensive unemployment and underemployment affecting more
  than half the population (2001 est.)

Anguilla
  8% (2002)

Antigua and Barbuda
  11% (2001 est.)

Argentina
  8.5% (2007 est.)

Armenia
  7.1% (2007 est.)

Aruba
  6.9% (2005 est.)

Australia
  4.4% (2007 est.)

Austria
  4.4% (2007 est.)

Azerbaijan
  1% official rate (2007 est.)

Bahamas, The
  7.6% (2006 est.)

Bahrain
  15% (2005 est.)

Bangladesh
  2.5% (includes underemployment) (2007 est.)

Barbados
  10.7% (2003 est.)

Belarus
  1.6% officially registered unemployed; large number of
  underemployed workers (2005)

Belgium
  7.5% (2007 est.)

Belize
  9.4% (2006)

Benin
  NA%

Bermuda
  2.1% (2004 est.)

Bhutan
  2.5% (2004)

Bolivia
  7.5% in urban areas; widespread underemployment (2007 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  45.5% official rate; grey economy may reduce
  actual unemployment to 25-30% (31 December 2004 est.)

Botswana
  7.5% (2007 est.)

Brazil
  9.3% (2007 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  3.6% (1997)

Brunei
  4% (2006)

Bulgaria
  7.7% (2007 est.)

Burkina Faso
  77% (2004)

Burma
  5.2% (2007 est.)

Burundi
  NA%

Cambodia
  2.5% (2000 est.)

Cameroon
  30% (2001 est.)

Canada
  6% (2007 est.)

Cape Verde
  21% (2000 est.)

Cayman Islands
  4.4% (2004)

Central African Republic
  8% (23% for Bangui) (2001 est.)

Chad
  NA%

Chile
  7% (2007 est.)

China
  4% unemployment in urban areas; substantial unemployment and
  underemployment in rural areas (2007 est.)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  60% (2000 est.)

Colombia
  11.2% (2007 est.)

Comoros
  20% (1996 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  NA%

Congo, Republic of the
  NA%

Cook Islands
  13.1% (2005)

Costa Rica
  4.6% (2007 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  unemployment may have climbed to 40-50% as a result of
  the civil war

Croatia
  11.8% (2007 est.)

Cuba
  1.8% (2007 est.)

Cyprus
  3.9% (2007 est.)

Czech Republic
  6.6% (2007 est.)

Denmark
  2.8% (2007 est.)

Djibouti
  59% in urban areas, 83% in rural areas (2007 est.)

Dominica
  23% (2000 est.)

Dominican Republic
  15.6% (2007 est.)

Ecuador
  8.8% (2007 est.)

Egypt
  9.1% (2007 est.)

El Salvador
  6.2% official rate; but the economy has much
  underemployment (2007 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  30% (1998 est.)

Eritrea
  NA%

Estonia
  4.7% (2007 est.)

Ethiopia
  NA%

European Union
  8.5% (2006 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  full employment; labor shortage
  (2001)

Faroe Islands
  2.1% (2006)

Fiji
  7.6% (1999)

Finland
  6.9% (2007 est.)

France
  7.9% (2007 est.)

French Polynesia
  11.7% (2005)

Gabon
  21% (2006 est.)

Gambia, The
  NA%

Gaza Strip
  34.8% (2006)

Georgia
  13.6% (2006 est.)

Germany
  9%
  note: this is the International Labor Organization's estimated rate
  for international comparisons; Germany's Federal Employment Office
  estimated a seasonally adjusted rate of 10.8% (2007 est.)

Ghana
  11% (2000 est.)

Gibraltar
  3% (2005 est.)

Greece
  8.3% (2007 est.)

Greenland
  9.3% (2005 est.)

Grenada
  12.5% (2000)

Guam
  11.4% (2002 est.)

Guatemala
  3.2% (2005 est.)

Guernsey
  0.9% (March 2006 est.)

Guinea
  NA%

Guinea-Bissau
  NA%

Guyana
  9.1% (understated) (2000)

Haiti
  widespread unemployment and underemployment; more than
  two-thirds of the labor force do not have formal jobs (2002 est.)

Honduras
  27.8% (2007 est.)

Hong Kong
  4% (2007 est.)

Hungary
  7.3% (2007 est.)

Iceland
  1% (2007 est.)

India
  7.2% (2007 est.)

Indonesia
  9.1% (2007 est.)

Iran
  12% according to the Iranian government (2007 est.)

Iraq
  18% to 30% (2006 est.)

Ireland
  4.6% (2007 est.)

Isle of Man
  1.5% (December 2006 est.)

Israel
  7.3% (2007 est.)

Italy
  6.2% (2007 est.)

Jamaica
  9.9% (2007 est.)

Japan
  3.8% (2007 est.)

Jersey
  2.2% (2006 est.)

Jordan
  13.5% official rate; unofficial rate is approximately 30%
  (2007 est.)

Kazakhstan
  7.3% (2007 est.)

Kenya
  40% (2001 est.)

Kiribati
  2% official rate; underemployment 70% (1992 est.)

Korea, North
  NA%

Korea, South
  3.3% (2007 est.)

Kosovo
  43% (2007 est.)

Kuwait
  2.2% (2004 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  18% (2004 est.)

Laos
  2.4% (2005 est.)

Latvia
  5.7% (2007 est.)

Lebanon
  20% (2006 est.)

Lesotho
  45% (2002)

Liberia
  85% (2003 est.)

Libya
  30% (2004 est.)

Liechtenstein
  1.3% (September 2002)

Lithuania
  3.5%
  note: based on survey data, official registered unemployment of 5.7%
  (2007 est.)

Luxembourg
  4.4% (2007 est.)

Macau
  3.1% (2006)

Macedonia
  34.9% (2007 est.)

Malawi
  NA%

Malaysia
  3.2% (2007 est.)

Maldives
  NEGL% (2003 est.)

Mali
  30% (2004 est.)

Malta
  6.4% (2007 est.)

Marshall Islands
  30.9% (2000 est.)

Mauritania
  20% (2004 est.)

Mauritius
  8.8% (2007 est.)

Mayotte
  25.4% (2005)

Mexico
  3.7% plus underemployment of perhaps 25% (2007 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  22% (2000 est.)

Moldova
  2.1%; note - roughly 25% of working age Moldovans are
  employed abroad (2007 est.)

Monaco
  0% (2005)

Mongolia
  3% (2007)

Montenegro
  14.7% (2007 est.)

Montserrat
  6% (1998 est.)

Morocco
  9.8% (2007 est.)

Mozambique
  21% (1997 est.)

Namibia
  5.2% (2007 est.)

Nauru
  90% (2004 est.)

Nepal
  42% (2004 est.)

Netherlands
  4.6% (2007 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  17% (2002 est.)

New Caledonia
  17.1% (2004)

New Zealand
  3.6% (2007 est.)

Nicaragua
  4.9% plus underemployment of 46.5% (2007 est.)

Niger
  NA%

Nigeria
  4.9% (2007 est.)

Niue
  12% (2001)

Northern Mariana Islands
  3.9% (2001)

Norway
  2.5% (2007 est.)

Oman
  15% (2004 est.)

Pakistan
  5.6% plus substantial underemployment (2007 est.)

Palau
  4.2% (2005 est.)

Panama
  6.4% (2007 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  1.9% up to 80% in urban areas (2004)

Paraguay
  5.6% (2007 est.)

Peru
  6.9% in metropolitan Lima; widespread underemployment (2007
  est.)

Philippines
  7.3% (2007 est.)

Poland
  12.8% (2007 est.)

Portugal
  8% (2007 est.)

Puerto Rico
  12% (2002)

Qatar
  0.7% (2007 est.)

Romania
  4.1% (2007 est.)

Russia
  6.2% (2007 est.)

Rwanda
  NA%

Saint Helena
  14% (1998 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  4.5% (1997)

Saint Lucia
  20% (2003 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  10.3% (1999)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  15% (2001 est.)

Samoa
  NA%

San Marino
  3.8% (2004)

Sao Tome and Principe
  NA%

Saudi Arabia
  13% among Saudi males only (local bank estimate; some
  estimates range as high as 25%) (2004 est.)

Senegal
  48% (2007 est.)

Serbia
  18.8% (2007 est.)

Seychelles
  2% (2006 est.)

Sierra Leone
  NA%

Singapore
  2.1% (2007 est.)

Slovakia
  8.4% (2007 est.)

Slovenia
  7.7% (2007 est.)

Solomon Islands
  NA%

Somalia
  NA%

South Africa
  24.3% (2007 est.)

Spain
  8.3% (2007 est.)

Sri Lanka
  6% (2007 est.)

Sudan
  18.7% (2002 est.)

Suriname
  9.5% (2004)

Swaziland
  40% (2006 est.)

Sweden
  6.1% (2007 est.)

Switzerland
  2.8% (2007 est.)

Syria
  9% (2007 est.)

Taiwan
  3.9% (2007 est.)

Tajikistan
  2.4% official rate; actual unemployment is higher (2007
  est.)

Tanzania
  NA%

Thailand
  1.4% (2007 est.)

Timor-Leste
  50% estimated; note - unemployment in urban areas
  reached 20%; data do not include underemployed (2001 est.)

Togo
  NA%

Tokelau
  NA%

Tonga
  13% (FY03/04 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  4.5% (2007 est.)

Tunisia
  14.1% (2007 est.)

Turkey
  9.9% plus underemployment of 4% (2007 est.)

Turkmenistan
  60% (2004 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  10% (1997 est.)

Tuvalu
  NA%

Uganda
  NA%

Ukraine
  2.3% officially registered; large number of unregistered or
  underemployed workers; the International Labor Organization
  calculates that Ukraine's real unemployment level is nearly 7% (2007
  est.)

United Arab Emirates
  2.4% (2001)

United Kingdom
  5.3% (2007 est.)

United States
  4.6% (2007 est.)

Uruguay
  9.2% (2007 est.)

Uzbekistan
  0.8% officially by the Ministry of Labor, plus another
  20% underemployed (2007 est.)

Vanuatu
  1.7% (1999)

Venezuela
  8.5% (2007 est.)

Vietnam
  4.3% (2007 est.)

Virgin Islands
  6.2% (2004)

Wallis and Futuna
  15.2% (2003)

West Bank
  18.6% (2006)

Western Sahara
  NA%

World
  30% combined unemployment and underemployment in many
  non-industrialized countries; developed countries typically 4%-12%
  unemployment (2007 est.)

Yemen
  35% (2003 est.)

Zambia
  50% (2000 est.)

Zimbabwe
  80% (2005 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2137  Military - note


Akrotiri
  Akrotiri has a full RAF base, Headquarters for British
  Forces on Cyprus, and Episkopi Support Unit

American Samoa
  defense is the responsibility of the US

Andorra
  defense is the responsibility of France and Spain

Anguilla
  defense is the responsibility of the UK

Antarctica
  the Antarctic Treaty prohibits any measures of a military
  nature, such as the establishment of military bases and
  fortifications, the carrying out of military maneuvers, or the
  testing of any type of weapon; it permits the use of military
  personnel or equipment for scientific research or for any other
  peaceful purposes

Argentina
  the Argentine military is a well-organized force
  constrained by the country's prolonged economic hardship; the
  country has recently experienced a strong recovery, and the military
  is implementing a modernization plan aimed at making the ground
  forces lighter and more responsive (2008)

Aruba
  defense is the responsibility of the Kingdom of the Netherlands

Ashmore and Cartier Islands
  defense is the responsibility of
  Australia; periodic visits by the Royal Australian Navy and Royal
  Australian Air Force

Barbados
  the Royal Barbados Defense Force includes a land-based
  Troop Command and a small Coast Guard; the primary role of the land
  element is to defend the island against external aggression; the
  Command consists of a single, part-time battalion with a small
  regular cadre that is deployed throughout the island; it
  increasingly supports the police in patrolling the coastline to
  prevent smuggling and other illicit activities (2007)

Bermuda
  defense is the responsibility of the UK

Bouvet Island
  defense is the responsibility of Norway

British Indian Ocean Territory
  defense is the responsibility of the
  UK; the US lease on Diego Garcia expires in 2016

British Virgin Islands
  defense is the responsibility of the UK

Cayman Islands
  defense is the responsibility of the UK

Christmas Island
  defense is the responsibility of Australia

Clipperton Island
  defense is the responsibility of France

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  defense is the responsibility of Australia;
  the territory has a five-person police force

Cook Islands
  defense is the responsibility of New Zealand, in
  consultation with the Cook Islands and at its request

Coral Sea Islands
  defense is the responsibility of Australia

Cuba
  the collapse of the Soviet Union deprived the Cuban Army of its
  major economic and logistic support, and had a significant impact on
  equipment numbers and serviceability; the army remains well trained
  and professional in nature; while the lack of replacement parts for
  its existing equipment and the current severe shortage of fuel have
  increasingly affected operational capabilities, Cuba remains able to
  offer considerable resistance to any regional power (2008)

Dhekelia
  includes Dhekelia Garrison and Ayios Nikolaos Station
  connected by a roadway

European Union
  the five-nation Eurocorps - created in 1992 by
  France, Germany, Belgium, Spain, and Luxembourg - has deployed
  troops and police on peacekeeping missions to Bosnia-Herzegovina,
  Macedonia, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo and assumed
  command of the ISAF in Afghanistan in August 2004; Eurocorps
  directly commands the 5,000-man Franco-German Brigade, the
  Multinational Command Support Brigade, and EUFOR in Bosnia and
  Herzegovina; in November 2004, the EU Council of Ministers formally
  committed to creating 13 1,500-man battle groups by the end of 2007,
  to respond to international crises on a rotating basis; 22 of the
  EU's 25 nations have agreed to supply troops; France, Italy, and the
  UK formed the first of three battle groups in 2005; Norway, Sweden,
  Estonia, and Finland established the Nordic Battle Group effective 1
  January 2008; nine other groups are to be formed; a rapid-reaction
  naval EU Maritime Task Group was stood up in March 2007 (2007)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  defense is the responsibility of
  the UK

Faroe Islands
  defense is the responsibility of Denmark

French Polynesia
  defense is the responsibility of France

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  defense is the responsibility of
  France

Georgia
  a CIS peacekeeping force of Russian troops is deployed in
  the Abkhazia region of Georgia together with a UN military observer
  group; a Russian peacekeeping battalion is deployed in South Ossetia

Gibraltar
  defense is the responsibility of the UK; the Royal
  Gibraltar Regiment replaced the last British regular infantry forces
  in 1992

Greenland
  defense is the responsibility of Denmark

Guam
  defense is the responsibility of the US

Guernsey
  defense is the responsibility of the UK

Heard Island and McDonald Islands
  defense is the responsibility of
  Australia; Australia conducts fisheries patrols

Holy See (Vatican City)
  defense is the responsibility of Italy;
  ceremonial and limited security duties performed by Pontifical Swiss
  Guard

Hong Kong
  defense is the responsibility of China

Iceland
  Iceland has no standing military force; under a 1951
  bilateral agreement - still valid - its defense was provided by the
  US-manned Icelandic Defense Force (IDF) headquartered at Keflavik;
  however, all US military forces in Iceland were withdrawn as of
  October 2006; although wartime defense of Iceland remains a NATO
  commitment, in April 2007, Iceland and Norway signed a bilateral
  agreement providing for Norwegian aerial surveillance and defense of
  Icelandic airspace (2008)

Isle of Man
  defense is the responsibility of the UK

Jan Mayen
  defense is the responsibility of Norway

Jersey
  defense is the responsibility of the UK

Kiribati
  Kiribati does not have military forces; defense assistance
  is provided by Australia and NZ

Laos
  serving one of the world's least developed countries, the Lao
  People's Armed Forces (LPAF) is small, poorly funded, and
  ineffectively resourced; its mission focus is border and internal
  security, primarily in countering ethnic Hmong insurgent groups;
  together with the Lao People's Revolutionary Party and the
  government, the Lao People's Army (LPA) is the third pillar of state
  machinery, and as such is expected to suppress political and civil
  unrest and similar national emergencies, but the LPA also has
  upgraded skills to respond to avian influenza outbreaks; there is no
  perceived external threat to the state and the LPA maintains strong
  ties with the neighboring Vietnamese military (2008)

Lesotho
  Lesotho's declared policy is maintenance of its independent
  sovereignty and preservation of internal security; in practice,
  external security is guaranteed by South Africa; restructuring of
  the Lesotho Defense Force (LDF) and Ministry of Defense and Public
  Service over the past five years has focused on subordinating the
  defense apparatus to civilian control and restoring the LDF's
  cohesion; the restructuring has considerably improved capabilities
  and professionalism, but the LDF is disproportionately large for a
  small, poor country; the government has outlined a reduction to a
  planned 1,500-man strength, but these plans have met with vociferous
  resistance from the political opposition and from inside the LDF
  (2008)

Liechtenstein
  Liechtenstein has no military forces, but is
  interested in European security policy and is an active member of
  the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE)

Macau
  defense is the responsibility of China

Maldives
  the Maldives National Defense Force (MNDF), with its small
  size and with little serviceable equipment, is inadequate to prevent
  external aggression and is primarily tasked to reinforce the
  Maldives Police Service (MPS) and ensure security in the exclusive
  economic zone (2008)

Marshall Islands
  defense is the responsibility of the US

Mayotte
  defense is the responsibility of France; a small contingent
  of French forces is stationed on the island

Micronesia, Federated States of
  defense is the responsibility of the
  US

Monaco
  defense is the responsibility of France

Montenegro
  Montenegrin plans call for the establishment of a fully
  professional armed forces

Montserrat
  defense is the responsibility of the UK

Nauru
  Nauru maintains no defense forces; under an informal
  agreement, defense is the responsibility of Australia

Navassa Island
  defense is the responsibility of the US

Netherlands Antilles
  defense is the responsibility of the Kingdom of
  the Netherlands

New Caledonia
  defense is the responsibility of France

Niue
  defense is the responsibility of New Zealand

Norfolk Island
  defense is the responsibility of Australia

Northern Mariana Islands
  defense is the responsibility of the US

Palau
  defense is the responsibility of the US; under a Compact of
  Free Association between Palau and the US, the US military is
  granted access to the islands for 50 years, but it has not stationed
  any military forces there (2008)

Panama
  on 10 February 1990, the government of then President ENDARA
  abolished Panama's military and reformed the security apparatus by
  creating the Panamanian Public Forces; in October 1994, Panama's
  Legislative Assembly approved a constitutional amendment prohibiting
  the creation of a standing military force but allowing the temporary
  establishment of special police units to counter acts of "external
  aggression"

Paracel Islands
  occupied by China

Pitcairn Islands
  defense is the responsibility of the UK

Puerto Rico
  defense is the responsibility of the US

Saint Barthelemy
  defense is the responsibility of France

Saint Helena
  defense is the responsibility of the UK

Saint Martin
  defense is the responsibility of France

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  defense is the responsibility of France

Samoa
  Samoa has no formal defense structure or regular armed forces;
  informal defense ties exist with NZ, which is required to consider
  any Samoan request for assistance under the 1962 Treaty of Friendship

San Marino
  defense is the responsibility of Italy

Sao Tome and Principe
  Sao Tome and Principe's army is a tiny force
  with almost no resources at its disposal and would be wholly
  ineffective operating unilaterally; infantry equipment is considered
  simple to operate and maintain but may require refurbishment or
  replacement after 25 years in tropical climates; poor pay, working
  conditions, and alleged nepotism in the promotion of officers have
  been problems in the past, as reflected in the 1995 and 2003 coups;
  these issues are being addressed with foreign assistance aimed at
  improving the army and its focus on realistic security concerns;
  command is exercised from the president, through the Minister of
  Defense, to the Chief of the Armed Forces staff (2005)

South Africa
  with the end of apartheid and the establishment of
  majority rule, former military, black homelands forces, and
  ex-opposition forces were integrated into the South African National
  Defense Force (SANDF); as of 2003 the integration process was
  considered complete

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  defense is the
  responsibility of the UK

Spratly Islands
  Spratly Islands consist of more than 100 small
  islands or reefs of which about 45 are claimed and occupied by
  China, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan, and Vietnam

Svalbard
  Svalbard is a territory of Norway, demilitarized by treaty
  on 9 February 1920

Tokelau
  defense is the responsibility of New Zealand

Turkey
  a "National Security Policy Document" adopted in October 2005
  increases the Turkish Armed Forces (TSK) role in internal security,
  augmenting the General Directorate of Security and Gendarmerie
  General Command (Jandarma); the TSK leadership continues to play a
  key role in politics and considers itself guardian of Turkey's
  secular state; in April 2007, it warned the ruling party about any
  pro-Islamic appointments; despite on-going negotiations on EU
  accession since October 2005, progress has been limited in
  establishing required civilian supremacy over the military; primary
  domestic threats are listed as fundamentalism (with the definition
  in some dispute with the civilian government), separatism (the
  Kurdish problem), and the extreme left wing; Ankara strongly opposed
  establishment of an autonomous Kurdish region; an overhaul of the
  Turkish Land Forces Command (TLFC) taking place under the "Force
  2014" program is to produce 20-30% smaller, more highly trained
  forces characterized by greater mobility and firepower and capable
  of joint and combined operations; the TLFC has taken on increasing
  international peacekeeping responsibilities, and took charge of a
  NATO International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) command in
  Afghanistan in April 2007; the Turkish Navy is a regional naval
  power that wants to develop the capability to project power beyond
  Turkey's coastal waters; the Navy is heavily involved in NATO,
  multinational, and UN operations; its roles include control of
  territorial waters and security for sea lines of communications; the
  Turkish Air Force adopted an "Aerospace and Missile Defense Concept"
  in 2002 and has initiated project work on an integrated missile
  defense system; Air Force priorities include attaining a modern
  deployable, survivable, and sustainable force structure, and
  establishing a sustainable command and control system (2008)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  defense is the responsibility of the UK

United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
  defense is the
  responsibility of the US

Virgin Islands
  defense is the responsibility of the US

Wake Island
  defense is the responsibility of the US; the US Air
  Force is responsible for overall administration and operation of the
  island; the launch support facility is administered by the US
  Missile Defense Agency (MDA)

Wallis and Futuna
  defense is the responsibility of France

Yemen
  a Coast Guard was established in 2002

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2138  Communications - note


Afghanistan
  Internet access is growing through Internet cafes as
  well as public "telekiosks" in Kabul (2005)

Bouvet Island
  automatic meteorological station

Coral Sea Islands
  there are automatic weather stations on many of
  the isles and reefs relaying data to the mainland

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  one or more meteorological
  stations on each possession; note - meteorological station on
  Tromelin Island (Iles Eparses) is important for forecasting cyclones

Saint Helena
  South Africa maintains a meteorological station on
  Gough Island

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2140  Government - note


French Polynesia
  under certain acts of France, French Polynesia has
  acquired autonomy in all areas except those relating to police and
  justice, monetary policy, tertiary education, immigration, and
  defense and foreign affairs; the duties of its president are
  fashioned after those of the French prime minister

Malawi
  no party has a majority in the fractured legislature

New Zealand
  while not an official symbol, the Kiwi, a small native
  flightless bird, represents New Zealand

Solomon Islands
  by the end of 2007, the Regional Assistance Mission
  to the Solomon Islands (RAMSI) - originally made up of police and
  troops from Australia, NZ, Fiji, Papua New Guinea, and Tonga - had
  been scaled back to 303 police officers, 197 civilian technical
  advisers, and 72 military advisers from 15 countries across the
  region

Somalia
  although an interim government was created in 2004, other
  regional and local governing bodies continue to exist and control
  various regions of the country, including the self-declared Republic
  of Somaliland in northwestern Somalia and the semi-autonomous State
  of Puntland in northeastern Somalia

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2142  Country name


Afghanistan
  conventional long form: Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
  conventional short form: Afghanistan
  local long form: Jomhuri-ye Eslami-ye Afghanestan
  local short form: Afghanestan
  former: Republic of Afghanistan

Akrotiri
  conventional long form: Akrotiri Sovereign Base Area
  conventional short form: Akrotiri

Albania
  conventional long form: Republic of Albania
  conventional short form: Albania
  local long form: Republika e Shqiperise
  local short form: Shqiperia
  former: People's Socialist Republic of Albania

Algeria
  conventional long form: People's Democratic Republic of
  Algeria
  conventional short form: Algeria
  local long form: Al Jumhuriyah al Jaza'iriyah ad Dimuqratiyah ash
  Sha'biyah
  local short form: Al Jaza'ir

American Samoa
  conventional long form: Territory of American Samoa
  conventional short form: American Samoa
  abbreviation: AS

Andorra
  conventional long form: Principality of Andorra
  conventional short form: Andorra
  local long form: Principat d'Andorra
  local short form: Andorra

Angola
  conventional long form: Republic of Angola
  conventional short form: Angola
  local long form: Republica de Angola
  local short form: Angola
  former: People's Republic of Angola

Anguilla
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Anguilla

Antarctica
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Antarctica

Antigua and Barbuda
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Antigua and Barbuda

Argentina
  conventional long form: Argentine Republic
  conventional short form: Argentina
  local long form: Republica Argentina
  local short form: Argentina

Armenia
  conventional long form: Republic of Armenia
  conventional short form: Armenia
  local long form: Hayastani Hanrapetut'yun
  local short form: Hayastan
  former: Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic, Armenian Republic

Aruba
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Aruba

Ashmore and Cartier Islands
  conventional long form: Territory of
  Ashmore and Cartier Islands
  conventional short form: Ashmore and Cartier Islands

Australia
  conventional long form: Commonwealth of Australia
  conventional short form: Australia

Austria
  conventional long form: Republic of Austria
  conventional short form: Austria
  local long form: Republik Oesterreich
  local short form: Oesterreich

Azerbaijan
  conventional long form: Republic of Azerbaijan
  conventional short form: Azerbaijan
  local long form: Azarbaycan Respublikasi
  local short form: Azarbaycan
  former: Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Republic

Bahamas, The
  conventional long form: Commonwealth of The Bahamas
  conventional short form: The Bahamas

Bahrain
  conventional long form: Kingdom of Bahrain
  conventional short form: Bahrain
  local long form: Mamlakat al Bahrayn
  local short form: Al Bahrayn
  former: Dilmun

Bangladesh
  conventional long form: People's Republic of Bangladesh
  conventional short form: Bangladesh
  local long form: Gana Prajatantri Banladesh
  local short form: Banladesh
  former: East Bengal, East Pakistan

Barbados
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Barbados

Belarus
  conventional long form: Republic of Belarus
  conventional short form: Belarus
  local long form: Respublika Byelarus'
  local short form: Byelarus'
  former: Belorussian (Byelorussian) Soviet Socialist Republic

Belgium
  conventional long form: Kingdom of Belgium
  conventional short form: Belgium
  local long form: Royaume de Belgique/Koninkrijk Belgie
  local short form: Belgique/Belgie

Belize
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Belize
  former: British Honduras

Benin
  conventional long form: Republic of Benin
  conventional short form: Benin
  local long form: Republique du Benin
  local short form: Benin
  former: Dahomey

Bermuda
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Bermuda
  former: Somers Islands

Bhutan
  conventional long form: Kingdom of Bhutan
  conventional short form: Bhutan
  local long form: Druk Gyalkhap
  local short form: Druk Yul

Bolivia
  conventional long form: Republic of Bolivia
  conventional short form: Bolivia
  local long form: Republica de Bolivia
  local short form: Bolivia

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Bosnia and Herzegovina
  local long form: none
  local short form: Bosna i Hercegovina
  former: People's Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Socialist
  Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina

Botswana
  conventional long form: Republic of Botswana
  conventional short form: Botswana
  local long form: Republic of Botswana
  local short form: Botswana
  former: Bechuanaland

Bouvet Island
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Bouvet Island

Brazil
  conventional long form: Federative Republic of Brazil
  conventional short form: Brazil
  local long form: Republica Federativa do Brasil
  local short form: Brasil

British Indian Ocean Territory
  conventional long form: British
  Indian Ocean Territory
  conventional short form: none
  abbreviation: BIOT

British Virgin Islands
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: British Virgin Islands
  abbreviation: BVI

Brunei
  conventional long form: Brunei Darussalam
  conventional short form: Brunei
  local long form: Negara Brunei Darussalam
  local short form: Brunei

Bulgaria
  conventional long form: Republic of Bulgaria
  conventional short form: Bulgaria
  local long form: Republika Balgariya
  local short form: Balgariya

Burkina Faso
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Burkina Faso
  local long form: none
  local short form: Burkina Faso
  former: Upper Volta, Republic of Upper Volta

Burma
  conventional long form: Union of Burma
  conventional short form: Burma
  local long form: Pyidaungzu Myanma Naingngandaw (translated by the
  US Government as Union of Myanma and by the Burmese as Union of
  Myanmar)
  local short form: Myanma Naingngandaw
  former: Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma
  note: since 1989 the military authorities in Burma have promoted the
  name Myanmar as a conventional name for their state; this decision
  was not approved by any sitting legislature in Burma, and the US
  Government did not adopt the name, which is a derivative of the
  Burmese short-form name Myanma Naingngandaw

Burundi
  conventional long form: Republic of Burundi
  conventional short form: Burundi
  local long form: Republique du Burundi/Republika y'u Burundi
  local short form: Burundi
  former: Urundi

Cambodia
  conventional long form: Kingdom of Cambodia
  conventional short form: Cambodia
  local long form: Preahreacheanachakr Kampuchea (phonetic
  pronunciation)
  local short form: Kampuchea
  former: Khmer Republic, Democratic Kampuchea, People's Republic of
  Kampuchea, State of Cambodia

Cameroon
  conventional long form: Republic of Cameroon
  conventional short form: Cameroon
  local long form: Republique du Cameroun/Republic of Cameroon
  local short form: Cameroun/Cameroon
  former: French Cameroon, British Cameroon, Federal Republic of
  Cameroon, United Republic of Cameroon

Canada
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Canada

Cape Verde
  conventional long form: Republic of Cape Verde
  conventional short form: Cape Verde
  local long form: Republica de Cabo Verde
  local short form: Cabo Verde

Cayman Islands
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Cayman Islands

Central African Republic
  conventional long form: Central African
  Republic
  conventional short form: none
  local long form: Republique Centrafricaine
  local short form: none
  former: Ubangi-Shari, Central African Empire
  abbreviation: CAR

Chad
  conventional long form: Republic of Chad
  conventional short form: Chad
  local long form: Republique du Tchad/Jumhuriyat Tshad
  local short form: Tchad/Tshad

Chile
  conventional long form: Republic of Chile
  conventional short form: Chile
  local long form: Republica de Chile
  local short form: Chile

China
  conventional long form: People's Republic of China
  conventional short form: China
  local long form: Zhonghua Renmin Gongheguo
  local short form: Zhongguo
  abbreviation: PRC

Christmas Island
  conventional long form: Territory of Christmas
  Island
  conventional short form: Christmas Island

Clipperton Island
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Clipperton Island
  local long form: none
  local short form: Ile Clipperton
  former: sometimes called Ile de la Passion

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  conventional long form: Territory of Cocos
  (Keeling) Islands
  conventional short form: Cocos (Keeling) Islands

Colombia
  conventional long form: Republic of Colombia
  conventional short form: Colombia
  local long form: Republica de Colombia
  local short form: Colombia

Comoros
  conventional long form: Union of the Comoros
  conventional short form: Comoros
  local long form: Union des Comores
  local short form: Comores

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  conventional long form: Democratic
  Republic of the Congo
  conventional short form: none
  local long form: Republique Democratique du Congo
  local short form: none
  former: Congo Free State, Belgian Congo, Congo/Leopoldville,
  Congo/Kinshasa, Zaire
  abbreviation: DRC

Congo, Republic of the
  conventional long form: Republic of the Congo
  conventional short form: Congo (Brazzaville)
  local long form: Republique du Congo
  local short form: none
  former: Middle Congo, Congo/Brazzaville, Congo

Cook Islands
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Cook Islands
  former: Harvey Islands

Coral Sea Islands
  conventional long form: Coral Sea Islands Territory
  conventional short form: Coral Sea Islands

Costa Rica
  conventional long form: Republic of Costa Rica
  conventional short form: Costa Rica
  local long form: Republica de Costa Rica
  local short form: Costa Rica

Cote d'Ivoire
  conventional long form: Republic of Cote d'Ivoire
  conventional short form: Cote d'Ivoire
  local long form: Republique de Cote d'Ivoire
  local short form: Cote d'Ivoire
  note: pronounced coat-div-whar
  former: Ivory Coast

Croatia
  conventional long form: Republic of Croatia
  conventional short form: Croatia
  local long form: Republika Hrvatska
  local short form: Hrvatska
  former: People's Republic of Croatia, Socialist Republic of Croatia

Cuba
  conventional long form: Republic of Cuba
  conventional short form: Cuba
  local long form: Republica de Cuba
  local short form: Cuba

Cyprus
  conventional long form: Republic of Cyprus
  conventional short form: Cyprus
  local long form: Kypriaki Dimokratia/Kibris Cumhuriyeti
  local short form: Kypros/Kibris
  note: the Turkish Cypriot community, which administers the northern
  part of the island, refers to itself as the "Turkish Republic of
  Northern Cyprus" (TRNC)

Czech Republic
  conventional long form: Czech Republic
  conventional short form: Czech Republic
  local long form: Ceska Republika
  local short form: Cesko

Denmark
  conventional long form: Kingdom of Denmark
  conventional short form: Denmark
  local long form: Kongeriget Danmark
  local short form: Danmark

Dhekelia
  conventional long form: Dhekelia Sovereign Base Area
  conventional short form: Dhekelia

Djibouti
  conventional long form: Republic of Djibouti
  conventional short form: Djibouti
  local long form: Republique de Djibouti/Jumhuriyat Jibuti
  local short form: Djibouti/Jibuti
  former: French Territory of the Afars and Issas, French Somaliland

Dominica
  conventional long form: Commonwealth of Dominica
  conventional short form: Dominica

Dominican Republic
  conventional long form: Dominican Republic
  conventional short form: The Dominican
  local long form: Republica Dominicana
  local short form: La Dominicana

Ecuador
  conventional long form: Republic of Ecuador
  conventional short form: Ecuador
  local long form: Republica del Ecuador
  local short form: Ecuador

Egypt
  conventional long form: Arab Republic of Egypt
  conventional short form: Egypt
  local long form: Jumhuriyat Misr al-Arabiyah
  local short form: Misr
  former: United Arab Republic (with Syria)

El Salvador
  conventional long form: Republic of El Salvador
  conventional short form: El Salvador
  local long form: Republica de El Salvador
  local short form: El Salvador

Equatorial Guinea
  conventional long form: Republic of Equatorial
  Guinea
  conventional short form: Equatorial Guinea
  local long form: Republica de Guinea Ecuatorial/Republique de Guinee
  equatoriale
  local short form: Guinea Ecuatorial/Guinee equatoriale
  former: Spanish Guinea

Eritrea
  conventional long form: State of Eritrea
  conventional short form: Eritrea
  local long form: Hagere Ertra
  local short form: Ertra
  former: Eritrea Autonomous Region in Ethiopia

Estonia
  conventional long form: Republic of Estonia
  conventional short form: Estonia
  local long form: Eesti Vabariik
  local short form: Eesti
  former: Estonian Soviet Socialist Republic

Ethiopia
  conventional long form: Federal Democratic Republic of
  Ethiopia
  conventional short form: Ethiopia
  local long form: Ityop'iya Federalawi Demokrasiyawi Ripeblik
  local short form: Ityop'iya
  former: Abyssinia, Italian East Africa
  abbreviation: FDRE

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)

Faroe Islands
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Faroe Islands
  local long form: none
  local short form: Foroyar

Fiji
  conventional long form: Republic of the Fiji Islands
  conventional short form: Fiji
  local long form: Republic of the Fiji Islands/Matanitu ko Viti
  local short form: Fiji/Viti

Finland
  conventional long form: Republic of Finland
  conventional short form: Finland
  local long form: Suomen tasavalta/Republiken Finland
  local short form: Suomi/Finland

France
  conventional long form: French Republic
  conventional short form: France
  local long form: Republique francaise
  local short form: France

French Polynesia
  conventional long form: Overseas Lands of French
  Polynesia
  conventional short form: French Polynesia
  local long form: Pays d'outre-mer de la Polynesie Francaise
  local short form: Polynesie Francaise
  former: French Colony of Oceania

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  conventional long form:
  Territory of the French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  conventional short form: French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  local long form: Territoire des Terres Australes et Antarctiques
  Francaises
  local short form: Terres Australes et Antarctiques Francaises
  abbreviation: TAAF

Gabon
  conventional long form: Gabonese Republic
  conventional short form: Gabon
  local long form: Republique gabonaise
  local short form: Gabon

Gambia, The
  conventional long form: Republic of The Gambia
  conventional short form: The Gambia

Gaza Strip
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Gaza Strip
  local long form: none
  local short form: Qita Ghazzah

Georgia
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Georgia
  local long form: none
  local short form: Sak'art'velo
  former: Georgian Soviet Socialist Republic

Germany
  conventional long form: Federal Republic of Germany
  conventional short form: Germany
  local long form: Bundesrepublik Deutschland
  local short form: Deutschland
  former: German Empire, German Republic, German Reich

Ghana
  conventional long form: Republic of Ghana
  conventional short form: Ghana
  former: Gold Coast

Gibraltar
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Gibraltar

Greece
  conventional long form: Hellenic Republic
  conventional short form: Greece
  local long form: Elliniki Dhimokratia
  local short form: Ellas or Ellada
  former: Kingdom of Greece

Greenland
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Greenland
  local long form: none
  local short form: Kalaallit Nunaat

Grenada
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Grenada

Guam
  conventional long form: Territory of Guam
  conventional short form: Guam
  local long form: Guahan
  local short form: Guahan

Guatemala
  conventional long form: Republic of Guatemala
  conventional short form: Guatemala
  local long form: Republica de Guatemala
  local short form: Guatemala

Guernsey
  conventional long form: Bailiwick of Guernsey
  conventional short form: Guernsey

Guinea
  conventional long form: Republic of Guinea
  conventional short form: Guinea
  local long form: Republique de Guinee
  local short form: Guinee
  former: French Guinea

Guinea-Bissau
  conventional long form: Republic of Guinea-Bissau
  conventional short form: Guinea-Bissau
  local long form: Republica da Guine-Bissau
  local short form: Guine-Bissau
  former: Portuguese Guinea

Guyana
  conventional long form: Cooperative Republic of Guyana
  conventional short form: Guyana
  former: British Guiana

Haiti
  conventional long form: Republic of Haiti
  conventional short form: Haiti
  local long form: Republique d'Haiti/Repiblik d' Ayiti
  local short form: Haiti/Ayiti

Heard Island and McDonald Islands
  conventional long form: Territory
  of Heard Island and McDonald Islands
  conventional short form: Heard Island and McDonald Islands
  abbreviation: HIMI

Holy See (Vatican City)
  conventional long form: The Holy See (State
  of the Vatican City)
  conventional short form: Holy See (Vatican City)
  local long form: Santa Sede (Stato della Citta del Vaticano)
  local short form: Santa Sede (Citta del Vaticano)

Honduras
  conventional long form: Republic of Honduras
  conventional short form: Honduras
  local long form: Republica de Honduras
  local short form: Honduras

Hong Kong
  conventional long form: Hong Kong Special Administrative
  Region
  conventional short form: Hong Kong
  local long form: Xianggang Tebie Xingzhengqu
  local short form: Xianggang
  abbreviation: HK

Hungary
  conventional long form: Republic of Hungary
  conventional short form: Hungary
  local long form: Magyar Koztarsasag
  local short form: Magyarorszag

Iceland
  conventional long form: Republic of Iceland
  conventional short form: Iceland
  local long form: Lydveldid Island
  local short form: Island

India
  conventional long form: Republic of India
  conventional short form: India
  local long form: Republic of India/Bharatiya Ganarajya
  local short form: India/Bharat

Indonesia
  conventional long form: Republic of Indonesia
  conventional short form: Indonesia
  local long form: Republik Indonesia
  local short form: Indonesia
  former: Netherlands East Indies, Dutch East Indies

Iran
  conventional long form: Islamic Republic of Iran
  conventional short form: Iran
  local long form: Jomhuri-ye Eslami-ye Iran
  local short form: Iran
  former: Persia

Iraq
  conventional long form: Republic of Iraq
  conventional short form: Iraq
  local long form: Al Jumhuriyah al-Iraqiyah
  local short form: Al Iraq

Ireland
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Ireland
  local long form: none
  local short form: Eire

Isle of Man
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Isle of Man
  abbreviation: I.O.M.

Israel
  conventional long form: State of Israel
  conventional short form: Israel
  local long form: Medinat Yisra'el
  local short form: Yisra'el

Italy
  conventional long form: Italian Republic
  conventional short form: Italy
  local long form: Repubblica Italiana
  local short form: Italia
  former: Kingdom of Italy

Jamaica
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Jamaica

Jan Mayen
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Jan Mayen

Japan
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Japan
  local long form: Nihon-koku/Nippon-koku
  local short form: Nihon/Nippon

Jersey
  conventional long form: Bailiwick of Jersey
  conventional short form: Jersey

Jordan
  conventional long form: Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
  conventional short form: Jordan
  local long form: Al Mamlakah al Urduniyah al Hashimiyah
  local short form: Al Urdun
  former: Transjordan

Kazakhstan
  conventional long form: Republic of Kazakhstan
  conventional short form: Kazakhstan
  local long form: Qazaqstan Respublikasy
  local short form: Qazaqstan
  former: Kazakh Soviet Socialist Republic

Kenya
  conventional long form: Republic of Kenya
  conventional short form: Kenya
  local long form: Republic of Kenya/Jamhuri ya Kenya
  local short form: Kenya
  former: British East Africa

Kiribati
  conventional long form: Republic of Kiribati
  conventional short form: Kiribati
  local long form: Republic of Kiribati
  local short form: Kiribati
  note: pronounced keer-ree-bahss
  former: Gilbert Islands

Korea, North
  conventional long form: Democratic People's Republic of
  Korea
  conventional short form: North Korea
  local long form: Choson-minjujuui-inmin-konghwaguk
  local short form: Choson
  abbreviation: DPRK

Korea, South
  conventional long form: Republic of Korea
  conventional short form: South Korea
  local long form: Taehan-min'guk
  local short form: Han'guk
  abbreviation: ROK

Kosovo
  conventional long form: Republic of Kosovo
  conventional short form: Kosovo
  local long form: Republika e Kosoves (Republika Kosova)
  local short form: Kosova (Kosovo)
  former: Kosovo and Metohija Autonomous Province

Kuwait
  conventional long form: State of Kuwait
  conventional short form: Kuwait
  local long form: Dawlat al Kuwayt
  local short form: Al Kuwayt

Kyrgyzstan
  conventional long form: Kyrgyz Republic
  conventional short form: Kyrgyzstan
  local long form: Kyrgyz Respublikasy
  local short form: Kyrgyzstan
  former: Kirghiz Soviet Socialist Republic

Laos
  conventional long form: Lao People's Democratic Republic
  conventional short form: Laos
  local long form: Sathalanalat Paxathipatai Paxaxon Lao
  local short form: none

Latvia
  conventional long form: Republic of Latvia
  conventional short form: Latvia
  local long form: Latvijas Republika
  local short form: Latvija
  former: Latvian Soviet Socialist Republic

Lebanon
  conventional long form: Lebanese Republic
  conventional short form: Lebanon
  local long form: Al Jumhuriyah al Lubnaniyah
  local short form: Lubnan
  former: Greater Lebanon

Lesotho
  conventional long form: Kingdom of Lesotho
  conventional short form: Lesotho
  local long form: Kingdom of Lesotho
  local short form: Lesotho
  former: Basutoland

Liberia
  conventional long form: Republic of Liberia
  conventional short form: Liberia

Libya
  conventional long form: Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab
  Jamahiriya
  conventional short form: Libya
  local long form: Al Jumahiriyah al Arabiyah al Libiyah ash Shabiyah
  al Ishtirakiyah al Uzma
  local short form: none

Liechtenstein
  conventional long form: Principality of Liechtenstein
  conventional short form: Liechtenstein
  local long form: Fuerstentum Liechtenstein
  local short form: Liechtenstein

Lithuania
  conventional long form: Republic of Lithuania
  conventional short form: Lithuania
  local long form: Lietuvos Respublika
  local short form: Lietuva
  former: Lithuanian Soviet Socialist Republic

Luxembourg
  conventional long form: Grand Duchy of Luxembourg
  conventional short form: Luxembourg
  local long form: Grand Duche de Luxembourg
  local short form: Luxembourg

Macau
  conventional long form: Macau Special Administrative Region
  conventional short form: Macau
  local long form: Aomen Tebie Xingzhengqu (Chinese); Regiao
  Administrativa Especial de Macau (Portuguese)
  local short form: Aomen (Chinese); Macau (Portuguese)

Macedonia
  conventional long form: Republic of Macedonia
  conventional short form: Macedonia
  local long form: Republika Makedonija
  local short form: Makedonija
  note: the provisional designation used by the UN, EU, and NATO is
  the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM)
  former: People's Republic of Macedonia, Socialist Republic of
  Macedonia

Madagascar
  conventional long form: Republic of Madagascar
  conventional short form: Madagascar
  local long form: Republique de Madagascar/Repoblikan'i Madagasikara
  local short form: Madagascar/Madagasikara
  former: Malagasy Republic

Malawi
  conventional long form: Republic of Malawi
  conventional short form: Malawi
  local long form: Dziko la Malawi
  local short form: Malawi
  former: British Central African Protectorate, Nyasaland
  Protectorate, Nyasaland

Malaysia
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Malaysia
  local long form: none
  local short form: Malaysia
  former: Federation of Malaya

Maldives
  conventional long form: Republic of Maldives
  conventional short form: Maldives
  local long form: Dhivehi Raajjeyge Jumhooriyyaa
  local short form: Dhivehi Raajje

Mali
  conventional long form: Republic of Mali
  conventional short form: Mali
  local long form: Republique de Mali
  local short form: Mali
  former: French Sudan and Sudanese Republic

Malta
  conventional long form: Republic of Malta
  conventional short form: Malta
  local long form: Repubblika ta' Malta
  local short form: Malta

Marshall Islands
  conventional long form: Republic of the Marshall
  Islands
  conventional short form: Marshall Islands
  local long form: Republic of the Marshall Islands
  local short form: Marshall Islands
  abbreviation: RMI
  former: Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, Marshall Islands
  District

Mauritania
  conventional long form: Islamic Republic of Mauritania
  conventional short form: Mauritania
  local long form: Al Jumhuriyah al Islamiyah al Muritaniyah
  local short form: Muritaniyah

Mauritius
  conventional long form: Republic of Mauritius
  conventional short form: Mauritius
  local long form: Republic of Mauritius
  local short form: Mauritius

Mayotte
  conventional long form: Territorial Collectivity of Mayotte
  conventional short form: Mayotte

Mexico
  conventional long form: United Mexican States
  conventional short form: Mexico
  local long form: Estados Unidos Mexicanos
  local short form: Mexico

Micronesia, Federated States of
  conventional long form: Federated
  States of Micronesia
  conventional short form: none
  local long form: Federated States of Micronesia
  local short form: none
  former: Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, Ponape, Truk, and
  Yap Districts
  abbreviation: FSM

Moldova
  conventional long form: Republic of Moldova
  conventional short form: Moldova
  local long form: Republica Moldova
  local short form: Moldova
  former: Moldavian Soviet Socialist Republic, Moldovan Soviet
  Socialist Republic

Monaco
  conventional long form: Principality of Monaco
  conventional short form: Monaco
  local long form: Principaute de Monaco
  local short form: Monaco

Mongolia
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Mongolia
  local long form: none
  local short form: Mongol Uls
  former: Outer Mongolia

Montenegro
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Montenegro
  local long form: none
  local short form: Crna Gora
  former: People's Republic of Montenegro, Socialist Republic of
  Montenegro, Republic of Montenegro

Montserrat
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Montserrat

Morocco
  conventional long form: Kingdom of Morocco
  conventional short form: Morocco
  local long form: Al Mamlakah al Maghribiyah
  local short form: Al Maghrib

Mozambique
  conventional long form: Republic of Mozambique
  conventional short form: Mozambique
  local long form: Republica de Mocambique
  local short form: Mocambique
  former: Portuguese East Africa

Namibia
  conventional long form: Republic of Namibia
  conventional short form: Namibia
  local long form: Republic of Namibia
  local short form: Namibia
  former: German Southwest Africa, South-West Africa

Nauru
  conventional long form: Republic of Nauru
  conventional short form: Nauru
  local long form: Republic of Nauru
  local short form: Nauru
  former: Pleasant Island

Navassa Island
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Navassa Island

Nepal
  conventional long form: Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal
  conventional short form: Nepal
  local long form: Sanghiya Loktantrik Ganatantra Nepal
  local short form: Nepal

Netherlands
  conventional long form: Kingdom of the Netherlands
  conventional short form: Netherlands
  local long form: Koninkrijk der Nederlanden
  local short form: Nederland

Netherlands Antilles
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Netherlands Antilles
  local long form: none
  local short form: Nederlandse Antillen
  former: Curacao and Dependencies

New Caledonia
  conventional long form: Territory of New Caledonia and
  Dependencies
  conventional short form: New Caledonia
  local long form: Territoire des Nouvelle-Caledonie et Dependances
  local short form: Nouvelle-Caledonie

New Zealand
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: New Zealand
  abbreviation: NZ

Nicaragua
  conventional long form: Republic of Nicaragua
  conventional short form: Nicaragua
  local long form: Republica de Nicaragua
  local short form: Nicaragua

Niger
  conventional long form: Republic of Niger
  conventional short form: Niger
  local long form: Republique du Niger
  local short form: Niger

Nigeria
  conventional long form: Federal Republic of Nigeria
  conventional short form: Nigeria

Niue
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Niue
  note: pronounciation falls between nyu-way and new-way, but not like
  new-wee
  former: Savage Island

Norfolk Island
  conventional long form: Territory of Norfolk Island
  conventional short form: Norfolk Island

Northern Mariana Islands
  conventional long form: Commonwealth of the
  Northern Mariana Islands
  conventional short form: Northern Mariana Islands
  abbreviation: CNMI
  former: Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, Mariana Islands
  District

Norway
  conventional long form: Kingdom of Norway
  conventional short form: Norway
  local long form: Kongeriket Norge
  local short form: Norge

Oman
  conventional long form: Sultanate of Oman
  conventional short form: Oman
  local long form: Saltanat Uman
  local short form: Uman
  former: Muscat and Oman

Pakistan
  conventional long form: Islamic Republic of Pakistan
  conventional short form: Pakistan
  local long form: Jamhuryat Islami Pakistan
  local short form: Pakistan
  former: West Pakistan

Palau
  conventional long form: Republic of Palau
  conventional short form: Palau
  local long form: Beluu er a Belau
  local short form: Belau
  former: Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, Palau District

Panama
  conventional long form: Republic of Panama
  conventional short form: Panama
  local long form: Republica de Panama
  local short form: Panama

Papua New Guinea
  conventional long form: Independent State of Papua
  New Guinea
  conventional short form: Papua New Guinea
  local short form: Papuaniugini
  former: Territory of Papua and New Guinea
  abbreviation: PNG

Paracel Islands
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Paracel Islands

Paraguay
  conventional long form: Republic of Paraguay
  conventional short form: Paraguay
  local long form: Republica del Paraguay
  local short form: Paraguay

Peru
  conventional long form: Republic of Peru
  conventional short form: Peru
  local long form: Republica del Peru
  local short form: Peru

Philippines
  conventional long form: Republic of the Philippines
  conventional short form: Philippines
  local long form: Republika ng Pilipinas
  local short form: Pilipinas

Pitcairn Islands
  conventional long form: Pitcairn, Henderson, Ducie,
  and Oeno Islands
  conventional short form: Pitcairn Islands

Poland
  conventional long form: Republic of Poland
  conventional short form: Poland
  local long form: Rzeczpospolita Polska
  local short form: Polska

Portugal
  conventional long form: Portuguese Republic
  conventional short form: Portugal
  local long form: Republica Portuguesa
  local short form: Portugal

Puerto Rico
  conventional long form: Commonwealth of Puerto Rico
  conventional short form: Puerto Rico

Qatar
  conventional long form: State of Qatar
  conventional short form: Qatar
  local long form: Dawlat Qatar
  local short form: Qatar
  note: closest approximation of the native pronunciation falls
  between cutter and gutter, but not like guitar

Romania
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Romania
  local long form: none
  local short form: Romania

Russia
  conventional long form: Russian Federation
  conventional short form: Russia
  local long form: Rossiyskaya Federatsiya
  local short form: Rossiya
  former: Russian Empire, Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic

Rwanda
  conventional long form: Republic of Rwanda
  conventional short form: Rwanda
  local long form: Republika y'u Rwanda
  local short form: Rwanda
  former: Ruanda, German East Africa

Saint Barthelemy
  conventional long form: Overseas Collectivity of
  Saint Barthelemy
  conventional short form: Saint Barthelemy
  local long form: Collectivite d'outre mer de Saint-Barthelemy
  local short form: Saint-Barthelemy

Saint Helena
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Saint Helena

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  conventional long form: Federation of Saint
  Kitts and Nevis
  conventional short form: Saint Kitts and Nevis
  former: Federation of Saint Christopher and Nevis

Saint Lucia
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Saint Lucia

Saint Martin
  conventional long form: Overseas Collectivity of Saint
  Martin
  conventional short form: Saint Martin
  local long form: Collectivity d'outre mer de Saint-Martin
  local short form: Saint-Martin

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  conventional long form: Territorial
  Collectivity of Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  conventional short form: Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  local long form: Departement de Saint-Pierre et Miquelon
  local short form: Saint-Pierre et Miquelon

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Saint Vincent and the Grenadines

Samoa
  conventional long form: Independent State of Samoa
  conventional short form: Samoa
  local long form: Malo Sa'oloto Tuto'atasi o Samoa
  local short form: Samoa
  former: Western Samoa

San Marino
  conventional long form: Republic of San Marino
  conventional short form: San Marino
  local long form: Repubblica di San Marino
  local short form: San Marino

Sao Tome and Principe
  conventional long form: Democratic Republic of
  Sao Tome and Principe
  conventional short form: Sao Tome and Principe
  local long form: Republica Democratica de Sao Tome e Principe
  local short form: Sao Tome e Principe

Saudi Arabia
  conventional long form: Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
  conventional short form: Saudi Arabia
  local long form: Al Mamlakah al Arabiyah as Suudiyah
  local short form: Al Arabiyah as Suudiyah

Senegal
  conventional long form: Republic of Senegal
  conventional short form: Senegal
  local long form: Republique du Senegal
  local short form: Senegal
  former: Senegambia (along with The Gambia), Mali Federation

Serbia
  conventional long form: Republic of Serbia
  conventional short form: Serbia
  local long form: Republika Srbija
  local short form: Srbija
  former: People's Republic of Serbia, Socialist Republic of Serbia

Seychelles
  conventional long form: Republic of Seychelles
  conventional short form: Seychelles
  local long form: Republic of Seychelles
  local short form: Seychelles

Sierra Leone
  conventional long form: Republic of Sierra Leone
  conventional short form: Sierra Leone
  local long form: Republic of Sierra Leone
  local short form: Sierra Leone

Singapore
  conventional long form: Republic of Singapore
  conventional short form: Singapore
  local long form: Republic of Singapore
  local short form: Singapore

Slovakia
  conventional long form: Slovak Republic
  conventional short form: Slovakia
  local long form: Slovenska Republika
  local short form: Slovensko

Slovenia
  conventional long form: Republic of Slovenia
  conventional short form: Slovenia
  local long form: Republika Slovenija
  local short form: Slovenija
  former: People's Republic of Slovenia, Socialist Republic of Slovenia

Solomon Islands
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Solomon Islands
  local long form: none
  local short form: Solomon Islands
  former: British Solomon Islands

Somalia
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Somalia
  local long form: Jamhuuriyada Demuqraadiga Soomaaliyeed
  local short form: Soomaaliya
  former: Somali Republic, Somali Democratic Republic

South Africa
  conventional long form: Republic of South Africa
  conventional short form: South Africa
  former: Union of South Africa
  abbreviation: RSA

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  conventional long form:
  South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  conventional short form: none
  abbreviation: SGSSI

Spain
  conventional long form: Kingdom of Spain
  conventional short form: Spain
  local long form: Reino de Espana
  local short form: Espana

Spratly Islands
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Spratly Islands

Sri Lanka
  conventional long form: Democratic Socialist Republic of
  Sri Lanka
  conventional short form: Sri Lanka
  local long form: Shri Lamka Prajatantrika Samajaya di
  Janarajaya/Ilankai Jananayaka Choshalichak Kutiyarachu
  local short form: Shri Lamka/Ilankai
  former: Serendib, Ceylon

Sudan
  conventional long form: Republic of the Sudan
  conventional short form: Sudan
  local long form: Jumhuriyat as-Sudan
  local short form: As-Sudan
  former: Anglo-Egyptian Sudan

Suriname
  conventional long form: Republic of Suriname
  conventional short form: Suriname
  local long form: Republiek Suriname
  local short form: Suriname
  former: Netherlands Guiana, Dutch Guiana

Svalbard
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Svalbard (sometimes referred to as
  Spitzbergen)

Swaziland
  conventional long form: Kingdom of Swaziland
  conventional short form: Swaziland
  local long form: Umbuso weSwatini
  local short form: eSwatini

Sweden
  conventional long form: Kingdom of Sweden
  conventional short form: Sweden
  local long form: Konungariket Sverige
  local short form: Sverige

Switzerland
  conventional long form: Swiss Confederation
  conventional short form: Switzerland
  local long form: Schweizerische Eidgenossenschaft (German);
  Confederation Suisse (French); Confederazione Svizzera (Italian);
  Confederaziun Svizra (Romansh)
  local short form: Schweiz (German); Suisse (French); Svizzera
  (Italian); Svizra (Romansh)

Syria
  conventional long form: Syrian Arab Republic
  conventional short form: Syria
  local long form: Al Jumhuriyah al Arabiyah as Suriyah
  local short form: Suriyah
  former: United Arab Republic (with Egypt)

Taiwan
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Taiwan
  local long form: none
  local short form: T'ai-wan
  former: Formosa

Tajikistan
  conventional long form: Republic of Tajikistan
  conventional short form: Tajikistan
  local long form: Jumhurii Tojikiston
  local short form: Tojikiston
  former: Tajik Soviet Socialist Republic

Tanzania
  conventional long form: United Republic of Tanzania
  conventional short form: Tanzania
  local long form: Jamhuri ya Muungano wa Tanzania
  local short form: Tanzania
  former: United Republic of Tanganyika and Zanzibar

Thailand
  conventional long form: Kingdom of Thailand
  conventional short form: Thailand
  local long form: Ratcha Anachak Thai
  local short form: Prathet Thai
  former: Siam

Timor-Leste
  conventional long form: Democratic Republic of
  Timor-Leste
  conventional short form: Timor-Leste
  local long form: Republika Demokratika Timor Lorosa'e [Tetum];
  Republica Democratica de Timor-Leste [Portuguese]
  local short form: Timor Lorosa'e [Tetum]; Timor-Leste [Portuguese]
  former: East Timor, Portuguese Timor

Togo
  conventional long form: Togolese Republic
  conventional short form: Togo
  local long form: Republique togolaise
  local short form: none
  former: French Togoland

Tokelau
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Tokelau

Tonga
  conventional long form: Kingdom of Tonga
  conventional short form: Tonga
  local long form: Pule'anga Tonga
  local short form: Tonga
  former: Friendly Islands

Trinidad and Tobago
  conventional long form: Republic of Trinidad and
  Tobago
  conventional short form: Trinidad and Tobago

Tunisia
  conventional long form: Tunisian Republic
  conventional short form: Tunisia
  local long form: Al Jumhuriyah at Tunisiyah
  local short form: Tunis

Turkey
  conventional long form: Republic of Turkey
  conventional short form: Turkey
  local long form: Turkiye Cumhuriyeti
  local short form: Turkiye

Turkmenistan
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Turkmenistan
  local long form: none
  local short form: Turkmenistan
  former: Turkmen Soviet Socialist Republic

Turks and Caicos Islands
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Turks and Caicos Islands
  abbreviation: TCI

Tuvalu
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Tuvalu
  local long form: none
  local short form: Tuvalu
  former: Ellice Islands
  note: "Tuvalu" means "group of eight," referring to the country's
  eight traditionally inhabited islands

Uganda
  conventional long form: Republic of Uganda
  conventional short form: Uganda

Ukraine
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Ukraine
  local long form: none
  local short form: Ukrayina
  former: Ukrainian National Republic, Ukrainian State, Ukrainian
  Soviet Socialist Republic

United Arab Emirates
  conventional long form: United Arab Emirates
  conventional short form: none
  local long form: Al Imarat al Arabiyah al Muttahidah
  local short form: none
  former: Trucial Oman, Trucial States
  abbreviation: UAE

United Kingdom
  conventional long form: United Kingdom of Great
  Britain and Northern Ireland; note - Great Britain includes England,
  Scotland, and Wales
  conventional short form: United Kingdom
  abbreviation: UK

United States
  conventional long form: United States of America
  conventional short form: United States
  abbreviation: US or USA

United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
  conventional long
  form: none
  conventional short form: Baker Island; Howland Island; Jarvis
  Island; Johnston Atoll; Kingman Reef; Midway Islands; Palmyra Atoll

Uruguay
  conventional long form: Oriental Republic of Uruguay
  conventional short form: Uruguay
  local long form: Republica Oriental del Uruguay
  local short form: Uruguay
  former: Banda Oriental, Cisplatine Province

Uzbekistan
  conventional long form: Republic of Uzbekistan
  conventional short form: Uzbekistan
  local long form: Ozbekiston Respublikasi
  local short form: Ozbekiston
  former: Uzbek Soviet Socialist Republic

Vanuatu
  conventional long form: Republic of Vanuatu
  conventional short form: Vanuatu
  local long form: Ripablik blong Vanuatu
  local short form: Vanuatu
  former: New Hebrides

Venezuela
  conventional long form: Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela
  conventional short form: Venezuela
  local long form: Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela
  local short form: Venezuela

Vietnam
  conventional long form: Socialist Republic of Vietnam
  conventional short form: Vietnam
  local long form: Cong Hoa Xa Hoi Chu Nghia Viet Nam
  local short form: Viet Nam
  abbreviation: SRV

Virgin Islands
  conventional long form: United States Virgin Islands
  conventional short form: Virgin Islands
  former: Danish West Indies
  abbreviation: USVI

Wake Island
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Wake Island

Wallis and Futuna
  conventional long form: Territory of the Wallis
  and Futuna Islands
  conventional short form: Wallis and Futuna
  local long form: Territoire des Iles Wallis et Futuna
  local short form: Wallis et Futuna

West Bank
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: West Bank

Western Sahara
  conventional long form: none
  conventional short form: Western Sahara
  former: Spanish Sahara

Yemen
  conventional long form: Republic of Yemen
  conventional short form: Yemen
  local long form: Al Jumhuriyah al Yamaniyah
  local short form: Al Yaman
  former: Yemen Arab Republic [Yemen (Sanaa) or North Yemen] and
  People's Democratic Republic of Yemen [Yemen (Aden) or South Yemen]

Zambia
  conventional long form: Republic of Zambia
  conventional short form: Zambia
  former: Northern Rhodesia

Zimbabwe
  conventional long form: Republic of Zimbabwe
  conventional short form: Zimbabwe
  former: Southern Rhodesia, Rhodesia

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2144  Location


Afghanistan
  Southern Asia, north and west of Pakistan, east of Iran

Akrotiri
  Eastern Mediterranean, peninsula on the southwest coast of
  Cyprus

Albania
  Southeastern Europe, bordering the Adriatic Sea and Ionian
  Sea, between Greece in the south and Montenegro and Kosovo to the
  north

Algeria
  Northern Africa, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between
  Morocco and Tunisia

American Samoa
  Oceania, group of islands in the South Pacific Ocean,
  about half way between Hawaii and New Zealand

Andorra
  Southwestern Europe, between France and Spain

Angola
  Southern Africa, bordering the South Atlantic Ocean, between
  Namibia and Democratic Republic of the Congo

Anguilla
  Caribbean, islands between the Caribbean Sea and North
  Atlantic Ocean, east of Puerto Rico

Antarctica
  continent mostly south of the Antarctic Circle

Antigua and Barbuda
  Caribbean, islands between the Caribbean Sea and
  the North Atlantic Ocean, east-southeast of Puerto Rico

Arctic Ocean
  body of water between Europe, Asia, and North America,
  mostly north of the Arctic Circle

Argentina
  Southern South America, bordering the South Atlantic
  Ocean, between Chile and Uruguay

Armenia
  Southwestern Asia, east of Turkey

Aruba
  Caribbean, island in the Caribbean Sea, north of Venezuela

Ashmore and Cartier Islands
  Southeastern Asia, islands in the Indian
  Ocean, midway between northwestern Australia and Timor island

Atlantic Ocean
  body of water between Africa, Europe, the Southern
  Ocean, and the Western Hemisphere

Australia
  Oceania, continent between the Indian Ocean and the South
  Pacific Ocean

Austria
  Central Europe, north of Italy and Slovenia

Azerbaijan
  Southwestern Asia, bordering the Caspian Sea, between
  Iran and Russia, with a small European portion north of the Caucasus
  range

Bahamas, The
  Caribbean, chain of islands in the North Atlantic
  Ocean, southeast of Florida, northeast of Cuba

Bahrain
  Middle East, archipelago in the Persian Gulf, east of Saudi
  Arabia

Bangladesh
  Southern Asia, bordering the Bay of Bengal, between Burma
  and India

Barbados
  Caribbean, island in the North Atlantic Ocean, northeast of
  Venezuela

Belarus
  Eastern Europe, east of Poland

Belgium
  Western Europe, bordering the North Sea, between France and
  the Netherlands

Belize
  Central America, bordering the Caribbean Sea, between
  Guatemala and Mexico

Benin
  Western Africa, bordering the Bight of Benin, between Nigeria
  and Togo

Bermuda
  North America, group of islands in the North Atlantic Ocean,
  east of South Carolina (US)

Bhutan
  Southern Asia, between China and India

Bolivia
  Central South America, southwest of Brazil

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  Southeastern Europe, bordering the Adriatic
  Sea and Croatia

Botswana
  Southern Africa, north of South Africa

Bouvet Island
  island in the South Atlantic Ocean, southwest of the
  Cape of Good Hope (South Africa)

Brazil
  Eastern South America, bordering the Atlantic Ocean

British Indian Ocean Territory
  archipelago in the Indian Ocean,
  south of India, about halfway between Africa and Indonesia

British Virgin Islands
  Caribbean, between the Caribbean Sea and the
  North Atlantic Ocean, east of Puerto Rico

Brunei
  Southeastern Asia, bordering the South China Sea and Malaysia

Bulgaria
  Southeastern Europe, bordering the Black Sea, between
  Romania and Turkey

Burkina Faso
  Western Africa, north of Ghana

Burma
  Southeastern Asia, bordering the Andaman Sea and the Bay of
  Bengal, between Bangladesh and Thailand

Burundi
  Central Africa, east of Democratic Republic of the Congo

Cambodia
  Southeastern Asia, bordering the Gulf of Thailand, between
  Thailand, Vietnam, and Laos

Cameroon
  Western Africa, bordering the Bight of Biafra, between
  Equatorial Guinea and Nigeria

Canada
  Northern North America, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean on
  the east, North Pacific Ocean on the west, and the Arctic Ocean on
  the north, north of the conterminous US

Cape Verde
  Western Africa, group of islands in the North Atlantic
  Ocean, west of Senegal

Cayman Islands
  Caribbean, three-island group (Grand Cayman, Cayman
  Brac, Little Cayman) in Caribbean Sea, 240 km south of Cuba and 268
  km northwest of Jamaica

Central African Republic
  Central Africa, north of Democratic
  Republic of the Congo

Chad
  Central Africa, south of Libya

Chile
  Southern South America, bordering the South Pacific Ocean,
  between Argentina and Peru

China
  Eastern Asia, bordering the East China Sea, Korea Bay, Yellow
  Sea, and South China Sea, between North Korea and Vietnam

Christmas Island
  Southeastern Asia, island in the Indian Ocean,
  south of Indonesia

Clipperton Island
  Middle America, atoll in the North Pacific Ocean,
  1,120 km southwest of Mexico

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  Southeastern Asia, group of islands in the
  Indian Ocean, southwest of Indonesia, about halfway from Australia
  to Sri Lanka

Colombia
  Northern South America, bordering the Caribbean Sea,
  between Panama and Venezuela, and bordering the North Pacific Ocean,
  between Ecuador and Panama

Comoros
  Southern Africa, group of islands at the northern mouth of
  the Mozambique Channel, about two-thirds of the way between northern
  Madagascar and northern Mozambique

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  Central Africa, northeast of Angola

Congo, Republic of the
  Western Africa, bordering the South Atlantic
  Ocean, between Angola and Gabon

Cook Islands
  Oceania, group of islands in the South Pacific Ocean,
  about half way between Hawaii and New Zealand

Coral Sea Islands
  Oceania, islands in the Coral Sea, northeast of
  Australia

Costa Rica
  Central America, bordering both the Caribbean Sea and the
  North Pacific Ocean, between Nicaragua and Panama

Cote d'Ivoire
  Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean,
  between Ghana and Liberia

Croatia
  Southeastern Europe, bordering the Adriatic Sea, between
  Bosnia and Herzegovina and Slovenia

Cuba
  Caribbean, island between the Caribbean Sea and the North
  Atlantic Ocean, 150 km south of Key West, Florida

Cyprus
  Middle East, island in the Mediterranean Sea, south of Turkey

Czech Republic
  Central Europe, southeast of Germany

Denmark
  Northern Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea and the North Sea,
  on a peninsula north of Germany (Jutland); also includes two major
  islands (Sjaelland and Fyn)

Dhekelia
  Eastern Mediterranean, on the southeast coast of Cyprus
  near Famagusta

Djibouti
  Eastern Africa, bordering the Gulf of Aden and the Red Sea,
  between Eritrea and Somalia

Dominica
  Caribbean, island between the Caribbean Sea and the North
  Atlantic Ocean, about half way between Puerto Rico and Trinidad and
  Tobago

Dominican Republic
  Caribbean, eastern two-thirds of the island of
  Hispaniola, between the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean,
  east of Haiti

Ecuador
  Western South America, bordering the Pacific Ocean at the
  Equator, between Colombia and Peru

Egypt
  Northern Africa, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between
  Libya and the Gaza Strip, and the Red Sea north of Sudan, and
  includes the Asian Sinai Peninsula

El Salvador
  Central America, bordering the North Pacific Ocean,
  between Guatemala and Honduras

Equatorial Guinea
  Western Africa, bordering the Bight of Biafra,
  between Cameroon and Gabon

Eritrea
  Eastern Africa, bordering the Red Sea, between Djibouti and
  Sudan

Estonia
  Eastern Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea and Gulf of
  Finland, between Latvia and Russia

Ethiopia
  Eastern Africa, west of Somalia

European Union
  Europe between the North Atlantic Ocean in the west
  and Russia, Belarus, and Ukraine to the east

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  Southern South America, islands in
  the South Atlantic Ocean, east of southern Argentina

Faroe Islands
  Northern Europe, island group between the Norwegian
  Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean, about half way between Iceland and
  Norway

Fiji
  Oceania, island group in the South Pacific Ocean, about
  two-thirds of the way from Hawaii to New Zealand

Finland
  Northern Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea, Gulf of Bothnia,
  and Gulf of Finland, between Sweden and Russia

France
  metropolitan France: Western Europe, bordering the Bay of
  Biscay and English Channel, between Belgium and Spain, southeast of
  the UK; bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between Italy and Spain
  French Guiana: Northern South America, bordering the North Atlantic
  Ocean, between Brazil and Suriname
  Guadeloupe: Caribbean, islands between the Caribbean Sea and the
  North Atlantic Ocean, southeast of Puerto Rico
  Martinique: Caribbean, island between the Caribbean Sea and North
  Atlantic Ocean, north of Trinidad and Tobago
  Reunion: Southern Africa, island in the Indian Ocean, east of
  Madagascar

French Polynesia
  Oceania, archipelagoes in the South Pacific Ocean
  about half way between South America and Australia

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  southeast and east of Africa,
  islands in the southern Indian Ocean, some near Madagascar and
  others about equidistant between Africa, Antarctica, and Australia;
  note - French Southern and Antarctic Lands include Ile Amsterdam,
  Ile Saint-Paul, Iles Crozet, Iles Kerguelen, Bassas da India, Europa
  Island, Glorioso Islands, Juan de Nova Island, and Tromelin Island
  in the southern Indian Ocean, along with the French-claimed sector
  of Antarctica, "Adelie Land"; the US does not recognize the French
  claim to "Adelie Land"

Gabon
  Western Africa, bordering the Atlantic Ocean at the Equator,
  between Republic of the Congo and Equatorial Guinea

Gambia, The
  Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean and
  Senegal

Gaza Strip
  Middle East, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between
  Egypt and Israel

Georgia
  Southwestern Asia, bordering the Black Sea, between Turkey
  and Russia

Germany
  Central Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea and the North Sea,
  between the Netherlands and Poland, south of Denmark

Ghana
  Western Africa, bordering the Gulf of Guinea, between Cote
  d'Ivoire and Togo

Gibraltar
  Southwestern Europe, bordering the Strait of Gibraltar,
  which links the Mediterranean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean, on
  the southern coast of Spain

Greece
  Southern Europe, bordering the Aegean Sea, Ionian Sea, and
  the Mediterranean Sea, between Albania and Turkey

Greenland
  Northern North America, island between the Arctic Ocean
  and the North Atlantic Ocean, northeast of Canada

Grenada
  Caribbean, island between the Caribbean Sea and Atlantic
  Ocean, north of Trinidad and Tobago

Guam
  Oceania, island in the North Pacific Ocean, about
  three-quarters of the way from Hawaii to the Philippines

Guatemala
  Central America, bordering the North Pacific Ocean,
  between El Salvador and Mexico, and bordering the Gulf of Honduras
  (Caribbean Sea) between Honduras and Belize

Guernsey
  Western Europe, islands in the English Channel, northwest
  of France

Guinea
  Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean, between
  Guinea-Bissau and Sierra Leone

Guinea-Bissau
  Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean,
  between Guinea and Senegal

Guyana
  Northern South America, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean,
  between Suriname and Venezuela

Haiti
  Caribbean, western one-third of the island of Hispaniola,
  between the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean, west of the
  Dominican Republic

Heard Island and McDonald Islands
  islands in the Indian Ocean, about
  two-thirds of the way from Madagascar to Antarctica

Holy See (Vatican City)
  Southern Europe, an enclave of Rome (Italy)

Honduras
  Central America, bordering the Caribbean Sea, between
  Guatemala and Nicaragua and bordering the Gulf of Fonseca (North
  Pacific Ocean), between El Salvador and Nicaragua

Hong Kong
  Eastern Asia, bordering the South China Sea and China

Hungary
  Central Europe, northwest of Romania

Iceland
  Northern Europe, island between the Greenland Sea and the
  North Atlantic Ocean, northwest of the UK

India
  Southern Asia, bordering the Arabian Sea and the Bay of
  Bengal, between Burma and Pakistan

Indian Ocean
  body of water between Africa, the Southern Ocean, Asia,
  and Australia

Indonesia
  Southeastern Asia, archipelago between the Indian Ocean
  and the Pacific Ocean

Iran
  Middle East, bordering the Gulf of Oman, the Persian Gulf, and
  the Caspian Sea, between Iraq and Pakistan

Iraq
  Middle East, bordering the Persian Gulf, between Iran and Kuwait

Ireland
  Western Europe, occupying five-sixths of the island of
  Ireland in the North Atlantic Ocean, west of Great Britain

Isle of Man
  Western Europe, island in the Irish Sea, between Great
  Britain and Ireland

Israel
  Middle East, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between Egypt
  and Lebanon

Italy
  Southern Europe, a peninsula extending into the central
  Mediterranean Sea, northeast of Tunisia

Jamaica
  Caribbean, island in the Caribbean Sea, south of Cuba

Jan Mayen
  Northern Europe, island between the Greenland Sea and the
  Norwegian Sea, northeast of Iceland

Japan
  Eastern Asia, island chain between the North Pacific Ocean and
  the Sea of Japan, east of the Korean Peninsula

Jersey
  Western Europe, island in the English Channel, northwest of
  France

Jordan
  Middle East, northwest of Saudi Arabia

Kazakhstan
  Central Asia, northwest of China; a small portion west of
  the Ural River in eastern-most Europe

Kenya
  Eastern Africa, bordering the Indian Ocean, between Somalia
  and Tanzania

Kiribati
  Oceania, group of 33 coral atolls in the Pacific Ocean,
  straddling the Equator; the capital Tarawa is about half way between
  Hawaii and Australia; note - on 1 January 1995, Kiribati proclaimed
  that all of its territory lies in the same time zone as its Gilbert
  Islands group (UTC +12) even though the Phoenix Islands and the Line
  Islands under its jurisdiction lie on the other side of the
  International Date Line

Korea, North
  Eastern Asia, northern half of the Korean Peninsula
  bordering the Korea Bay and the Sea of Japan, between China and
  South Korea

Korea, South
  Eastern Asia, southern half of the Korean Peninsula
  bordering the Sea of Japan and the Yellow Sea

Kosovo
  Southeast Europe, between Serbia and Macedonia

Kuwait
  Middle East, bordering the Persian Gulf, between Iraq and
  Saudi Arabia

Kyrgyzstan
  Central Asia, west of China

Laos
  Southeastern Asia, northeast of Thailand, west of Vietnam

Latvia
  Eastern Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea, between Estonia and
  Lithuania

Lebanon
  Middle East, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between Israel
  and Syria

Lesotho
  Southern Africa, an enclave of South Africa

Liberia
  Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean, between
  Cote d'Ivoire and Sierra Leone

Libya
  Northern Africa, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between
  Egypt and Tunisia

Liechtenstein
  Central Europe, between Austria and Switzerland

Lithuania
  Eastern Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea, between Latvia
  and Russia

Luxembourg
  Western Europe, between France and Germany

Macau
  Eastern Asia, bordering the South China Sea and China

Macedonia
  Southeastern Europe, north of Greece

Madagascar
  Southern Africa, island in the Indian Ocean, east of
  Mozambique

Malawi
  Southern Africa, east of Zambia

Malaysia
  Southeastern Asia, peninsula bordering Thailand and
  northern one-third of the island of Borneo, bordering Indonesia,
  Brunei, and the South China Sea, south of Vietnam

Maldives
  Southern Asia, group of atolls in the Indian Ocean,
  south-southwest of India

Mali
  Western Africa, southwest of Algeria

Malta
  Southern Europe, islands in the Mediterranean Sea, south of
  Sicily (Italy)

Marshall Islands
  Oceania, two archipelagic island chains of 29
  atolls, each made up of many small islets, and five single islands
  in the North Pacific Ocean, about half way between Hawaii and
  Australia

Mauritania
  Northern Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean,
  between Senegal and Western Sahara

Mauritius
  Southern Africa, island in the Indian Ocean, east of
  Madagascar

Mayotte
  Southern Indian Ocean, island in the Mozambique Channel,
  about half way between northern Madagascar and northern Mozambique

Mexico
  Middle America, bordering the Caribbean Sea and the Gulf of
  Mexico, between Belize and the US and bordering the North Pacific
  Ocean, between Guatemala and the US

Micronesia, Federated States of
  Oceania, island group in the North
  Pacific Ocean, about three-quarters of the way from Hawaii to
  Indonesia

Moldova
  Eastern Europe, northeast of Romania

Monaco
  Western Europe, bordering the Mediterranean Sea on the
  southern coast of France, near the border with Italy

Mongolia
  Northern Asia, between China and Russia

Montenegro
  Southeastern Europe, between the Adriatic Sea and Serbia

Montserrat
  Caribbean, island in the Caribbean Sea, southeast of
  Puerto Rico

Morocco
  Northern Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean and the
  Mediterranean Sea, between Algeria and Western Sahara

Mozambique
  Southeastern Africa, bordering the Mozambique Channel,
  between South Africa and Tanzania

Namibia
  Southern Africa, bordering the South Atlantic Ocean, between
  Angola and South Africa

Nauru
  Oceania, island in the South Pacific Ocean, south of the
  Marshall Islands

Navassa Island
  Caribbean, island in the Caribbean Sea, 35 miles west
  of Tiburon Peninsula of Haiti

Nepal
  Southern Asia, between China and India

Netherlands
  Western Europe, bordering the North Sea, between Belgium
  and Germany

Netherlands Antilles
  Caribbean, two island groups in the Caribbean
  Sea - composed of five islands, Curacao and Bonaire located off the
  coast of Venezuela, and Sint Maarten, Saba, and Sint Eustatius lie
  east of the US Virgin Islands

New Caledonia
  Oceania, islands in the South Pacific Ocean, east of
  Australia

New Zealand
  Oceania, islands in the South Pacific Ocean, southeast
  of Australia

Nicaragua
  Central America, bordering both the Caribbean Sea and the
  North Pacific Ocean, between Costa Rica and Honduras

Niger
  Western Africa, southeast of Algeria

Nigeria
  Western Africa, bordering the Gulf of Guinea, between Benin
  and Cameroon

Niue
  Oceania, island in the South Pacific Ocean, east of Tonga

Norfolk Island
  Oceania, island in the South Pacific Ocean, east of
  Australia

Northern Mariana Islands
  Oceania, islands in the North Pacific
  Ocean, about three-quarters of the way from Hawaii to the Philippines

Norway
  Northern Europe, bordering the North Sea and the North
  Atlantic Ocean, west of Sweden

Oman
  Middle East, bordering the Arabian Sea, Gulf of Oman, and
  Persian Gulf, between Yemen and UAE

Pacific Ocean
  body of water between the Southern Ocean, Asia,
  Australia, and the Western Hemisphere

Pakistan
  Southern Asia, bordering the Arabian Sea, between India on
  the east and Iran and Afghanistan on the west and China in the north

Palau
  Oceania, group of islands in the North Pacific Ocean,
  southeast of the Philippines

Panama
  Central America, bordering both the Caribbean Sea and the
  North Pacific Ocean, between Colombia and Costa Rica

Papua New Guinea
  Oceania, group of islands including the eastern
  half of the island of New Guinea between the Coral Sea and the South
  Pacific Ocean, east of Indonesia

Paracel Islands
  Southeastern Asia, group of small islands and reefs
  in the South China Sea, about one-third of the way from central
  Vietnam to the northern Philippines

Paraguay
  Central South America, northeast of Argentina

Peru
  Western South America, bordering the South Pacific Ocean,
  between Chile and Ecuador

Philippines
  Southeastern Asia, archipelago between the Philippine
  Sea and the South China Sea, east of Vietnam

Pitcairn Islands
  Oceania, islands in the South Pacific Ocean, about
  midway between Peru and New Zealand

Poland
  Central Europe, east of Germany

Portugal
  Southwestern Europe, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean,
  west of Spain

Puerto Rico
  Caribbean, island between the Caribbean Sea and the
  North Atlantic Ocean, east of the Dominican Republic

Qatar
  Middle East, peninsula bordering the Persian Gulf and Saudi
  Arabia

Romania
  Southeastern Europe, bordering the Black Sea, between
  Bulgaria and Ukraine

Russia
  Northern Asia (the area west of the Urals is considered part
  of Europe), bordering the Arctic Ocean, between Europe and the North
  Pacific Ocean

Rwanda
  Central Africa, east of Democratic Republic of the Congo

Saint Barthelemy
  located approximately 125 miles northwest of
  Guadeloupe

Saint Helena
  islands in the South Atlantic Ocean, about midway
  between South America and Africa; Ascension Island lies 700 nm
  northwest of Saint Helena; Tristan da Cunha lies 2300 nm southwest
  of Saint Helena

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  Caribbean, islands in the Caribbean Sea, about
  one-third of the way from Puerto Rico to Trinidad and Tobago

Saint Lucia
  Caribbean, island between the Caribbean Sea and North
  Atlantic Ocean, north of Trinidad and Tobago

Saint Martin
  island 300 km southeast of Puerto Rico

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  Northern North America, islands in the
  North Atlantic Ocean, south of Newfoundland (Canada)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  Caribbean, islands between the
  Caribbean Sea and North Atlantic Ocean, north of Trinidad and Tobago

Samoa
  Oceania, group of islands in the South Pacific Ocean, about
  half way between Hawaii and New Zealand

San Marino
  Southern Europe, an enclave in central Italy

Sao Tome and Principe
  Western Africa, islands in the Gulf of Guinea,
  straddling the Equator, west of Gabon

Saudi Arabia
  Middle East, bordering the Persian Gulf and the Red
  Sea, north of Yemen

Senegal
  Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean, between
  Guinea-Bissau and Mauritania

Serbia
  Southeastern Europe, between Macedonia and Hungary

Seychelles
  archipelago in the Indian Ocean, northeast of Madagascar

Sierra Leone
  Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean,
  between Guinea and Liberia

Singapore
  Southeastern Asia, islands between Malaysia and Indonesia

Slovakia
  Central Europe, south of Poland

Slovenia
  Central Europe, eastern Alps bordering the Adriatic Sea,
  between Austria and Croatia

Solomon Islands
  Oceania, group of islands in the South Pacific
  Ocean, east of Papua New Guinea

Somalia
  Eastern Africa, bordering the Gulf of Aden and the Indian
  Ocean, east of Ethiopia

South Africa
  Southern Africa, at the southern tip of the continent
  of Africa

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  Southern South America,
  islands in the South Atlantic Ocean, east of the tip of South America

Southern Ocean
  body of water between 60 degrees south latitude and
  Antarctica

Spain
  Southwestern Europe, bordering the Bay of Biscay,
  Mediterranean Sea, North Atlantic Ocean, and Pyrenees Mountains,
  southwest of France

Spratly Islands
  Southeastern Asia, group of reefs and islands in the
  South China Sea, about two-thirds of the way from southern Vietnam
  to the southern Philippines

Sri Lanka
  Southern Asia, island in the Indian Ocean, south of India

Sudan
  Northern Africa, bordering the Red Sea, between Egypt and
  Eritrea

Suriname
  Northern South America, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean,
  between French Guiana and Guyana

Svalbard
  Northern Europe, islands between the Arctic Ocean, Barents
  Sea, Greenland Sea, and Norwegian Sea, north of Norway

Swaziland
  Southern Africa, between Mozambique and South Africa

Sweden
  Northern Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea, Gulf of Bothnia,
  Kattegat, and Skagerrak, between Finland and Norway

Switzerland
  Central Europe, east of France, north of Italy

Syria
  Middle East, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between Lebanon
  and Turkey

Taiwan
  Eastern Asia, islands bordering the East China Sea,
  Philippine Sea, South China Sea, and Taiwan Strait, north of the
  Philippines, off the southeastern coast of China

Tajikistan
  Central Asia, west of China

Tanzania
  Eastern Africa, bordering the Indian Ocean, between Kenya
  and Mozambique

Thailand
  Southeastern Asia, bordering the Andaman Sea and the Gulf
  of Thailand, southeast of Burma

Timor-Leste
  Southeastern Asia, northwest of Australia in the Lesser
  Sunda Islands at the eastern end of the Indonesian archipelago; note
  - Timor-Leste includes the eastern half of the island of Timor, the
  Oecussi (Ambeno) region on the northwest portion of the island of
  Timor, and the islands of Pulau Atauro and Pulau Jaco

Togo
  Western Africa, bordering the Bight of Benin, between Benin and
  Ghana

Tokelau
  Oceania, group of three atolls in the South Pacific Ocean,
  about one-half of the way from Hawaii to New Zealand

Tonga
  Oceania, archipelago in the South Pacific Ocean, about
  two-thirds of the way from Hawaii to New Zealand

Trinidad and Tobago
  Caribbean, islands between the Caribbean Sea and
  the North Atlantic Ocean, northeast of Venezuela

Tunisia
  Northern Africa, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between
  Algeria and Libya

Turkey
  Southeastern Europe and Southwestern Asia (that portion of
  Turkey west of the Bosporus is geographically part of Europe),
  bordering the Black Sea, between Bulgaria and Georgia, and bordering
  the Aegean Sea and the Mediterranean Sea, between Greece and Syria

Turkmenistan
  Central Asia, bordering the Caspian Sea, between Iran
  and Kazakhstan

Turks and Caicos Islands
  Caribbean, two island groups in the North
  Atlantic Ocean, southeast of The Bahamas, north of Haiti

Tuvalu
  Oceania, island group consisting of nine coral atolls in the
  South Pacific Ocean, about one-half of the way from Hawaii to
  Australia

Uganda
  Eastern Africa, west of Kenya

Ukraine
  Eastern Europe, bordering the Black Sea, between Poland,
  Romania, and Moldova in the west and Russia in the east

United Arab Emirates
  Middle East, bordering the Gulf of Oman and the
  Persian Gulf, between Oman and Saudi Arabia

United Kingdom
  Western Europe, islands including the northern
  one-sixth of the island of Ireland between the North Atlantic Ocean
  and the North Sea, northwest of France

United States
  North America, bordering both the North Atlantic Ocean
  and the North Pacific Ocean, between Canada and Mexico

United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
  Oceania
  Baker Island: atoll in the North Pacific Ocean 1,830 nm (3,389 km)
  southwest of Honolulu, about half way between Hawaii and Australia
  Howland Island: island in the North Pacific Ocean 1,815 nm (3,361
  km) southwest of Honolulu, about half way between Hawaii and
  Australia
  Jarvis Island: island in the South Pacific Ocean 1,305 nm (2,417 km)
  south of Honolulu, about half way between Hawaii and Cook Islands
  Johnston Atoll: atoll in the North Pacific Ocean 717 nm (1,328 km)
  southwest of Honolulu, about one-third of the way from Hawaii to the
  Marshall Islands
  Kingman Reef: reef in the North Pacific Ocean 930 nm (1,722 km)
  south of Honolulu, about half way between Hawaii and American Samoa
  Midway Islands: atoll in the North Pacific Ocean 1,260 nm (2,334 km)
  northwest of Honolulu near the end of the Hawaiian Archipelago,
  about one-third of the way from Honolulu to Tokyo
  Palmyra Atoll: atoll in the North Pacific Ocean 960 nm (1,778 km)
  south of Honolulu, about half way between Hawaii and American Samoa

Uruguay
  Southern South America, bordering the South Atlantic Ocean,
  between Argentina and Brazil

Uzbekistan
  Central Asia, north of Afghanistan

Vanuatu
  Oceania, group of islands in the South Pacific Ocean, about
  three-quarters of the way from Hawaii to Australia

Venezuela
  Northern South America, bordering the Caribbean Sea and
  the North Atlantic Ocean, between Colombia and Guyana

Vietnam
  Southeastern Asia, bordering the Gulf of Thailand, Gulf of
  Tonkin, and South China Sea, alongside China, Laos, and Cambodia

Virgin Islands
  Caribbean, islands between the Caribbean Sea and the
  North Atlantic Ocean, east of Puerto Rico

Wake Island
  Oceania, atoll in the North Pacific Ocean, about
  two-thirds of the way from Hawaii to the Northern Mariana Islands

Wallis and Futuna
  Oceania, islands in the South Pacific Ocean, about
  two-thirds of the way from Hawaii to New Zealand

West Bank
  Middle East, west of Jordan

Western Sahara
  Northern Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean,
  between Mauritania and Morocco

Yemen
  Middle East, bordering the Arabian Sea, Gulf of Aden, and Red
  Sea, between Oman and Saudi Arabia

Zambia
  Southern Africa, east of Angola

Zimbabwe
  Southern Africa, between South Africa and Zambia

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2145  Map references


Afghanistan
  Asia

Akrotiri
  Middle East

Albania
  Europe

Algeria
  Africa

American Samoa
  Oceania

Andorra
  Europe

Angola
  Africa

Anguilla
  Central America and the Caribbean

Antarctica
  Antarctic Region

Antigua and Barbuda
  Central America and the Caribbean

Arctic Ocean
  Arctic Region

Argentina
  South America

Armenia
  Asia

Aruba
  Central America and the Caribbean

Ashmore and Cartier Islands
  Southeast Asia

Atlantic Ocean
  Political Map of the World

Australia
  Oceania

Austria
  Europe

Azerbaijan
  Asia

Bahamas, The
  Central America and the Caribbean

Bahrain
  Middle East

Bangladesh
  Asia

Barbados
  Central America and the Caribbean

Belarus
  Europe

Belgium
  Europe

Belize
  Central America and the Caribbean

Benin
  Africa

Bermuda
  North America

Bhutan
  Asia

Bolivia
  South America

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  Europe

Botswana
  Africa

Bouvet Island
  Antarctic Region

Brazil
  South America

British Indian Ocean Territory
  Political Map of the World

British Virgin Islands
  Central America and the Caribbean

Brunei
  Southeast Asia

Bulgaria
  Europe

Burkina Faso
  Africa

Burma
  Southeast Asia

Burundi
  Africa

Cambodia
  Southeast Asia

Cameroon
  Africa

Canada
  North America

Cape Verde
  Political Map of the World

Cayman Islands
  Central America and the Caribbean

Central African Republic
  Africa

Chad
  Africa

Chile
  South America

China
  Asia

Christmas Island
  Southeast Asia

Clipperton Island
  Political Map of the World

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  Southeast Asia

Colombia
  South America

Comoros
  Africa

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  Africa

Congo, Republic of the
  Africa

Cook Islands
  Oceania

Coral Sea Islands
  Oceania

Costa Rica
  Central America and the Caribbean

Cote d'Ivoire
  Africa

Croatia
  Europe

Cuba
  Central America and the Caribbean

Cyprus
  Middle East

Czech Republic
  Europe

Denmark
  Europe

Dhekelia
  Middle East

Djibouti
  Africa

Dominica
  Central America and the Caribbean

Dominican Republic
  Central America and the Caribbean

Ecuador
  South America

Egypt
  Africa

El Salvador
  Central America and the Caribbean

Equatorial Guinea
  Africa

Eritrea
  Africa

Estonia
  Europe

Ethiopia
  Africa

European Union
  Europe

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  South America

Faroe Islands
  Europe

Fiji
  Oceania

Finland
  Europe

France
  metropolitan France: Europe
  French Guiana: South America
  Guadeloupe: Central America and the Caribbean
  Martinique: Central America and the Caribbean
  Reunion: World

French Polynesia
  Oceania

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  Antarctic Region, Africa

Gabon
  Africa

Gambia, The
  Africa

Gaza Strip
  Middle East

Georgia
  Asia

Germany
  Europe

Ghana
  Africa

Gibraltar
  Europe

Greece
  Europe

Greenland
  Arctic Region

Grenada
  Central America and the Caribbean

Guam
  Oceania

Guatemala
  Central America and the Caribbean

Guernsey
  Europe

Guinea
  Africa

Guinea-Bissau
  Africa

Guyana
  South America

Haiti
  Central America and the Caribbean

Heard Island and McDonald Islands
  Antarctic Region

Holy See (Vatican City)
  Europe

Honduras
  Central America and the Caribbean

Hong Kong
  Southeast Asia

Hungary
  Europe

Iceland
  Arctic Region

India
  Asia

Indian Ocean
  Political Map of the World

Indonesia
  Southeast Asia

Iran
  Middle East

Iraq
  Middle East

Ireland
  Europe

Isle of Man
  Europe

Israel
  Middle East

Italy
  Europe

Jamaica
  Central America and the Caribbean

Jan Mayen
  Arctic Region

Japan
  Asia

Jersey
  Europe

Jordan
  Middle East

Kazakhstan
  Asia

Kenya
  Africa

Kiribati
  Oceania

Korea, North
  Asia

Korea, South
  Asia

Kosovo
  Europe

Kuwait
  Middle East

Kyrgyzstan
  Asia

Laos
  Southeast Asia

Latvia
  Europe

Lebanon
  Middle East

Lesotho
  Africa

Liberia
  Africa

Libya
  Africa

Liechtenstein
  Europe

Lithuania
  Europe

Luxembourg
  Europe

Macau
  Southeast Asia

Macedonia
  Europe

Madagascar
  Africa

Malawi
  Africa

Malaysia
  Southeast Asia

Maldives
  Asia

Mali
  Africa

Malta
  Europe

Marshall Islands
  Oceania

Mauritania
  Africa

Mauritius
  Political Map of the World

Mayotte
  Africa

Mexico
  North America

Micronesia, Federated States of
  Oceania

Moldova
  Europe

Monaco
  Europe

Mongolia
  Asia

Montenegro
  Europe

Montserrat
  Central America and the Caribbean

Morocco
  Africa

Mozambique
  Africa

Namibia
  Africa

Nauru
  Oceania

Navassa Island
  Central America and the Caribbean

Nepal
  Asia

Netherlands
  Europe

Netherlands Antilles
  Central America and the Caribbean

New Caledonia
  Oceania

New Zealand
  Oceania

Nicaragua
  Central America and the Caribbean

Niger
  Africa

Nigeria
  Africa

Niue
  Oceania

Norfolk Island
  Oceania

Northern Mariana Islands
  Oceania

Norway
  Europe

Oman
  Middle East

Pacific Ocean
  Political Map of the World

Pakistan
  Asia

Palau
  Oceania

Panama
  Central America and the Caribbean

Papua New Guinea
  Oceania

Paracel Islands
  Southeast Asia

Paraguay
  South America

Peru
  South America

Philippines
  Southeast Asia

Pitcairn Islands
  Oceania

Poland
  Europe

Portugal
  Europe

Puerto Rico
  Central America and the Caribbean

Qatar
  Middle East

Romania
  Europe

Russia
  Asia

Rwanda
  Africa

Saint Barthelemy
  Central America and the Caribbean

Saint Helena
  Africa

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  Central America and the Caribbean

Saint Lucia
  Central America and the Caribbean

Saint Martin
  Central America and the Caribbean

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  North America

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  Central America and the Caribbean

Samoa
  Oceania

San Marino
  Europe

Sao Tome and Principe
  Africa

Saudi Arabia
  Middle East

Senegal
  Africa

Serbia
  Europe

Seychelles
  Africa

Sierra Leone
  Africa

Singapore
  Southeast Asia

Slovakia
  Europe

Slovenia
  Europe

Solomon Islands
  Oceania

Somalia
  Africa

South Africa
  Africa

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  Antarctic Region

Southern Ocean
  Antarctic Region

Spain
  Europe

Spratly Islands
  Southeast Asia

Sri Lanka
  Asia

Sudan
  Africa

Suriname
  South America

Svalbard
  Arctic Region

Swaziland
  Africa

Sweden
  Europe

Switzerland
  Europe

Syria
  Middle East

Taiwan
  Southeast Asia

Tajikistan
  Asia

Tanzania
  Africa

Thailand
  Southeast Asia

Timor-Leste
  Southeast Asia

Togo
  Africa

Tokelau
  Oceania

Tonga
  Oceania

Trinidad and Tobago
  Central America and the Caribbean

Tunisia
  Africa

Turkey
  Middle East

Turkmenistan
  Asia

Turks and Caicos Islands
  Central America and the Caribbean

Tuvalu
  Oceania

Uganda
  Africa

Ukraine
  Asia, Europe

United Arab Emirates
  Middle East

United Kingdom
  Europe

United States
  North America

United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
  Oceania

Uruguay
  South America

Uzbekistan
  Asia

Vanuatu
  Oceania

Venezuela
  South America

Vietnam
  Southeast Asia

Virgin Islands
  Central America and the Caribbean

Wake Island
  Oceania

Wallis and Futuna
  Oceania

West Bank
  Middle East

Western Sahara
  Africa

World
  Physical Map of the World, Political Map of the World,
  Standard Time Zones of the World

Yemen
  Middle East

Zambia
  Africa

Zimbabwe
  Africa

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2146  Irrigated land (sq km)


Afghanistan
  27,200 sq km (2003)

Albania
  3,530 sq km (2003)

Algeria
  5,690 sq km (2003)

American Samoa
  NA

Andorra
  NA

Angola
  800 sq km (2003)

Anguilla
  NA

Antigua and Barbuda
  NA

Argentina
  15,500 sq km (2003)

Armenia
  2,860 sq km (2003)

Aruba
  0.01 sq km (1998 est.)

Ashmore and Cartier Islands
  0 sq km

Australia
  25,450 sq km (2003)

Austria
  40 sq km (2003)

Azerbaijan
  14,550 sq km (2003)

Bahamas, The
  10 sq km (2003)

Bahrain
  40 sq km (2003)

Bangladesh
  47,250 sq km (2003)

Barbados
  50 sq km (2003)

Belarus
  1,310 sq km (2003)

Belgium
  400 sq km (2003)

Belize
  30 sq km (2003)

Benin
  120 sq km (2003)

Bermuda
  NA

Bhutan
  400 sq km (2003)

Bolivia
  1,320 sq km (2003)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  30 sq km (2003)

Botswana
  10 sq km (2003)

Bouvet Island
  0 sq km

Brazil
  29,200 sq km (2003)

British Indian Ocean Territory
  0 sq km

British Virgin Islands
  NA

Brunei
  10 sq km (2003)

Bulgaria
  5,880 sq km (2003)

Burkina Faso
  250 sq km (2003)

Burma
  18,700 sq km (2003)

Burundi
  210 sq km (2003)

Cambodia
  2,700 sq km (2003)

Cameroon
  260 sq km (2003)

Canada
  7,850 sq km (2003)

Cape Verde
  30 sq km (2003)

Cayman Islands
  NA

Central African Republic
  20 sq km (2003)

Chad
  300 sq km (2003)

Chile
  19,000 sq km (2003)

China
  545,960 sq km (2003)

Christmas Island
  NA

Clipperton Island
  0 sq km

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  NA

Colombia
  9,000 sq km (2003)

Comoros
  NA

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  110 sq km (2003)

Congo, Republic of the
  20 sq km (2003)

Cook Islands
  NA

Coral Sea Islands
  0 sq km

Costa Rica
  1,080 sq km (2003)

Cote d'Ivoire
  730 sq km (2003)

Croatia
  110 sq km (2003)

Cuba
  8,700 sq km (2003)

Cyprus
  400 sq km (2003)

Czech Republic
  240 sq km (2003)

Denmark
  4,490 sq km (2003)

Djibouti
  10 sq km (2003)

Dominica
  NA

Dominican Republic
  2,750 sq km (2003)

Ecuador
  8,650 sq km (2003)

Egypt
  34,220 sq km (2003)

El Salvador
  450 sq km (2003)

Equatorial Guinea
  NA

Eritrea
  210 sq km (2003)

Estonia
  40 sq km (2003)

Ethiopia
  2,900 sq km (2003)

European Union
  168,050 sq km (2003 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  NA

Faroe Islands
  0 sq km

Fiji
  30 sq km (2003)

Finland
  640 sq km (2003)

France
  total: 26,190 sq km;
  metropolitan France: 26,000 sq km (2003)

French Polynesia
  10 sq km (2003)

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  0 sq km

Gabon
  70 sq km (2003)

Gambia, The
  20 sq km (2003)

Gaza Strip
  150 sq km; note - includes West Bank (2003)

Georgia
  4,690 sq km (2003)

Germany
  4,850 sq km (2003)

Ghana
  310 sq km (2003)

Gibraltar
  NA

Greece
  14,530 sq km (2003)

Greenland
  NA

Grenada
  NA

Guam
  NA

Guatemala
  1,300 sq km (2003)

Guernsey
  NA

Guinea
  950 sq km (2003)

Guinea-Bissau
  250 sq km (2003)

Guyana
  1,500 sq km (2003)

Haiti
  920 sq km (2003)

Heard Island and McDonald Islands
  0 sq km

Holy See (Vatican City)
  0 sq km

Honduras
  800 sq km (2003)

Hong Kong
  20 sq km (1998 est.)

Hungary
  2,300 sq km (2003)

Iceland
  NA

India
  558,080 sq km (2003)

Indonesia
  45,000 sq km (2003)

Iran
  76,500 sq km (2003)

Iraq
  35,250 sq km (2003)

Ireland
  NA

Isle of Man
  0 sq km

Israel
  1,940 sq km (2003)

Italy
  27,500 sq km (2003)

Jamaica
  250 sq km (2002)

Jan Mayen
  0 sq km

Japan
  25,920 sq km (2003)

Jersey
  NA

Jordan
  750 sq km (2003)

Kazakhstan
  35,560 sq km (2003)

Kenya
  1,030 sq km (2003)

Kiribati
  NA

Korea, North
  14,600 sq km (2003)

Korea, South
  8,780 sq km (2003)

Kuwait
  130 sq km (2003)

Kyrgyzstan
  10,720 sq km (2003)

Laos
  1,750 sq km (2003)

Latvia
  200 sq km
  note: land in Latvia is often too wet, and in need of drainage, not
  irrigation; approximately 16,000 sq km or 85% of agricultural land
  has been improved by drainage (2003)

Lebanon
  1,040 sq km (2003)

Lesotho
  30 sq km (2003)

Liberia
  30 sq km (2003)

Libya
  4,700 sq km (2003)

Liechtenstein
  NA

Lithuania
  70 sq km (2003)

Luxembourg
  NA

Macau
  NA

Macedonia
  550 sq km (2003)

Madagascar
  10,860 sq km (2003)

Malawi
  560 sq km (2003)

Malaysia
  3,650 sq km (2003)

Maldives
  NA

Mali
  2,360 sq km (2003)

Malta
  20 sq km (2003)

Marshall Islands
  0 sq km

Mauritania
  490 sq km (2002)

Mauritius
  220 sq km (2003)

Mayotte
  NA

Mexico
  63,200 sq km (2003)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  NA

Moldova
  3,000 sq km (2003)

Monaco
  NA

Mongolia
  840 sq km (2003)

Montenegro
  NA

Montserrat
  NA

Morocco
  14,450 sq km (2003)

Mozambique
  1,180 sq km (2003)

Namibia
  80 sq km (2003)

Nauru
  NA

Nepal
  11,700 sq km (2003)

Netherlands
  5,650 sq km (2003)

Netherlands Antilles
  NA

New Caledonia
  100 sq km (2003)

New Zealand
  2,850 sq km (2003)

Nicaragua
  610 sq km (2003)

Niger
  730 sq km (2003)

Nigeria
  2,820 sq km (2003)

Niue
  NA

Norfolk Island
  NA

Northern Mariana Islands
  NA

Norway
  1,270 sq km (2003)

Oman
  720 sq km (2003)

Pakistan
  182,300 sq km (2003)

Palau
  NA

Panama
  430 sq km (2003)

Papua New Guinea
  NA

Paracel Islands
  0 sq km

Paraguay
  670 sq km (2003)

Peru
  12,000 sq km (2003)

Philippines
  15,500 sq km (2003)

Pitcairn Islands
  NA

Poland
  1,000 sq km (2003)

Portugal
  6,500 sq km (2003)

Puerto Rico
  400 sq km (2003)

Qatar
  130 sq km (2002)

Romania
  30,770 sq km (2003)

Russia
  46,000 sq km (2003)

Rwanda
  90 sq km (2003)

Saint Helena
  NA

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  NA

Saint Lucia
  30 sq km (2003)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  NA

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  10 sq km (2003)

Samoa
  NA

San Marino
  NA

Sao Tome and Principe
  100 sq km (2003)

Saudi Arabia
  16,200 sq km (2003)

Senegal
  1,200 sq km (2003)

Serbia
  NA

Seychelles
  NA

Sierra Leone
  300 sq km (2003)

Singapore
  NA

Slovakia
  1,830 sq km (2003)

Slovenia
  30 sq km (2003)

Solomon Islands
  NA

Somalia
  2,000 sq km (2003)

South Africa
  14,980 sq km (2003)

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  0 sq km

Spain
  37,800 sq km (2003)

Spratly Islands
  0 sq km

Sri Lanka
  7,430 sq km (2003)

Sudan
  18,630 sq km (2003)

Suriname
  510 sq km (2003)

Svalbard
  NA

Swaziland
  500 sq km (2003)

Sweden
  1,150 sq km (2003)

Switzerland
  250 sq km (2003)

Syria
  13,330 sq km (2003)

Taiwan
  NA

Tajikistan
  7,220 sq km (2003)

Tanzania
  1,840 sq km (2003)

Thailand
  49,860 sq km (2003)

Timor-Leste
  1,065 sq km (2003)

Togo
  70 sq km (2003)

Tokelau
  NA

Tonga
  NA

Trinidad and Tobago
  40 sq km (2003)

Tunisia
  3,940 sq km (2003)

Turkey
  52,150 sq km (2003)

Turkmenistan
  18,000 sq km (2003)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  NA

Tuvalu
  NA

Uganda
  90 sq km (2003)

Ukraine
  22,080 sq km (2003)

United Arab Emirates
  760 sq km (2003)

United Kingdom
  1,700 sq km (2003)

United States
  223,850 sq km (2003)

Uruguay
  2,100 sq km (2003)

Uzbekistan
  42,810 sq km (2003)

Vanuatu
  NA

Venezuela
  5,750 sq km (2003)

Vietnam
  30,000 sq km (2003)

Virgin Islands
  NA

Wake Island
  0 sq km

Wallis and Futuna
  NA

West Bank
  150 sq km; note - includes Gaza Strip (2003)

Western Sahara
  NA

World
  2,770,980 sq km (2003)

Yemen
  5,500 sq km (2003)

Zambia
  1,560 sq km (2003)

Zimbabwe
  1,740 sq km (2003)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2147  Area (sq km)


Afghanistan
  total: 647,500 sq km
  land: 647,500 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Akrotiri
  total: 123 sq km
  note: includes a salt lake and wetlands

Albania
  total: 28,748 sq km
  land: 27,398 sq km
  water: 1,350 sq km

Algeria
  total: 2,381,740 sq km
  land: 2,381,740 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

American Samoa
  total: 199 sq km
  land: 199 sq km
  water: 0 sq km
  note: includes Rose Island and Swains Island

Andorra
  total: 468 sq km
  land: 468 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Angola
  total: 1,246,700 sq km
  land: 1,246,700 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Anguilla
  total: 102 sq km
  land: 102 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Antarctica
  total: 14 million sq km
  land: 14 million sq km (280,000 sq km ice-free, 13.72 million sq km
  ice-covered) (est.)
  note: fifth-largest continent, following Asia, Africa, North
  America, and South America, but larger than Australia and the
  subcontinent of Europe

Antigua and Barbuda
  total: 442.6 sq km (Antigua 280 sq km; Barbuda
  161 sq km)
  land: 442.6 sq km
  water: 0 sq km
  note: includes Redonda, 1.6 sq km

Arctic Ocean
  total: 14.056 million sq km
  note: includes Baffin Bay, Barents Sea, Beaufort Sea, Chukchi Sea,
  East Siberian Sea, Greenland Sea, Hudson Bay, Hudson Strait, Kara
  Sea, Laptev Sea, Northwest Passage, and other tributary water bodies

Argentina
  total: 2,766,890 sq km
  land: 2,736,690 sq km
  water: 30,200 sq km

Armenia
  total: 29,743 sq km
  land: 28,454 sq km
  water: 1,289 sq km

Aruba
  total: 193 sq km
  land: 193 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Ashmore and Cartier Islands
  total: 5 sq km
  land: 5 sq km
  water: 0 sq km
  note: includes Ashmore Reef (West, Middle, and East Islets) and
  Cartier Island

Atlantic Ocean
  total: 76.762 million sq km
  note: includes Baltic Sea, Black Sea, Caribbean Sea, Davis Strait,
  Denmark Strait, part of the Drake Passage, Gulf of Mexico, Labrador
  Sea, Mediterranean Sea, North Sea, Norwegian Sea, almost all of the
  Scotia Sea, and other tributary water bodies

Australia
  total: 7,686,850 sq km
  land: 7,617,930 sq km
  water: 68,920 sq km
  note: includes Lord Howe Island and Macquarie Island

Austria
  total: 83,870 sq km
  land: 82,444 sq km
  water: 1,426 sq km

Azerbaijan
  total: 86,600 sq km
  land: 86,100 sq km
  water: 500 sq km
  note: includes the exclave of Naxcivan Autonomous Republic and the
  Nagorno-Karabakh region; the region's autonomy was abolished by
  Azerbaijani Supreme Soviet on 26 November 1991

Bahamas, The
  total: 13,940 sq km
  land: 10,070 sq km
  water: 3,870 sq km

Bahrain
  total: 665 sq km
  land: 665 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Bangladesh
  total: 144,000 sq km
  land: 133,910 sq km
  water: 10,090 sq km

Barbados
  total: 431 sq km
  land: 431 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Belarus
  total: 207,600 sq km
  land: 207,600 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Belgium
  total: 30,528 sq km
  land: 30,278 sq km
  water: 250 sq km

Belize
  total: 22,966 sq km
  land: 22,806 sq km
  water: 160 sq km

Benin
  total: 112,620 sq km
  land: 110,620 sq km
  water: 2,000 sq km

Bermuda
  total: 53.3 sq km
  land: 53.3 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Bhutan
  total: 47,000 sq km
  land: 47,000 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Bolivia
  total: 1,098,580 sq km
  land: 1,084,390 sq km
  water: 14,190 sq km

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  total: 51,209.2 sq km
  land: 51,197 sq km
  water: 12.2 sq km

Botswana
  total: 600,370 sq km
  land: 585,370 sq km
  water: 15,000 sq km

Bouvet Island
  total: 49 sq km
  land: 49 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Brazil
  total: 8,511,965 sq km
  land: 8,456,510 sq km
  water: 55,455 sq km
  note: includes Arquipelago de Fernando de Noronha, Atol das Rocas,
  Ilha da Trindade, Ilhas Martin Vaz, and Penedos de Sao Pedro e Sao
  Paulo

British Indian Ocean Territory
  total: 54,400 sq km
  land: 60 sq km; Diego Garcia 44 sq km
  water: 54,340 sq km
  note: includes the entire Chagos Archipelago of 55 islands

British Virgin Islands
  total: 153 sq km
  land: 153 sq km
  water: 0 sq km
  note: comprised of 16 inhabited and more than 20 uninhabited
  islands; includes the islands of Tortola, Anegada, Virgin Gorda,
  Jost van Dyke

Brunei
  total: 5,770 sq km
  land: 5,270 sq km
  water: 500 sq km

Bulgaria
  total: 110,910 sq km
  land: 110,550 sq km
  water: 360 sq km

Burkina Faso
  total: 274,200 sq km
  land: 273,800 sq km
  water: 400 sq km

Burma
  total: 678,500 sq km
  land: 657,740 sq km
  water: 20,760 sq km

Burundi
  total: 27,830 sq km
  land: 25,650 sq km
  water: 2,180 sq km

Cambodia
  total: 181,040 sq km
  land: 176,520 sq km
  water: 4,520 sq km

Cameroon
  total: 475,440 sq km
  land: 469,440 sq km
  water: 6,000 sq km

Canada
  total: 9,984,670 sq km
  land: 9,093,507 sq km
  water: 891,163 sq km

Cape Verde
  total: 4,033 sq km
  land: 4,033 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Cayman Islands
  total: 262 sq km
  land: 262 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Central African Republic
  total: 622,984 sq km
  land: 622,984 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Chad
  total: 1.284 million sq km
  land: 1,259,200 sq km
  water: 24,800 sq km

Chile
  total: 756,950 sq km
  land: 748,800 sq km
  water: 8,150 sq km
  note: includes Easter Island (Isla de Pascua) and Isla Sala y Gomez

China
  total: 9,596,960 sq km
  land: 9,326,410 sq km
  water: 270,550 sq km

Christmas Island
  total: 135 sq km
  land: 135 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Clipperton Island
  total: 6 sq km
  land: 6 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  total: 14 sq km
  land: 14 sq km
  water: 0 sq km
  note: includes the two main islands of West Island and Home Island

Colombia
  total: 1,138,910 sq km
  land: 1,038,700 sq km
  water: 100,210 sq km
  note: includes Isla de Malpelo, Roncador Cay, and Serrana Bank

Comoros
  total: 2,170 sq km
  land: 2,170 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  total: 2,345,410 sq km
  land: 2,267,600 sq km
  water: 77,810 sq km

Congo, Republic of the
  total: 342,000 sq km
  land: 341,500 sq km
  water: 500 sq km

Cook Islands
  total: 236.7 sq km
  land: 236.7 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Coral Sea Islands
  total: less than 3 sq km
  land: less than 3 sq km
  water: 0 sq km
  note: includes numerous small islands and reefs scattered over a sea
  area of about 780,000 sq km, with the Willis Islets the most
  important

Costa Rica
  total: 51,100 sq km
  land: 50,660 sq km
  water: 440 sq km
  note: includes Isla del Coco

Cote d'Ivoire
  total: 322,460 sq km
  land: 318,000 sq km
  water: 4,460 sq km

Croatia
  total: 56,542 sq km
  land: 56,414 sq km
  water: 128 sq km

Cuba
  total: 110,860 sq km
  land: 110,860 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Cyprus
  total: 9,250 sq km (of which 3,355 sq km are in north Cyprus)
  land: 9,240 sq km
  water: 10 sq km

Czech Republic
  total: 78,866 sq km
  land: 77,276 sq km
  water: 1,590 sq km

Denmark
  total: 43,094 sq km
  land: 42,394 sq km
  water: 700 sq km
  note: includes the island of Bornholm in the Baltic Sea and the rest
  of metropolitan Denmark (the Jutland Peninsula, and the major
  islands of Sjaelland and Fyn), but excludes the Faroe Islands and
  Greenland

Dhekelia
  total: 130.8 sq km
  note: area surrounds three Cypriot enclaves

Djibouti
  total: 23,000 sq km
  land: 22,980 sq km
  water: 20 sq km

Dominica
  total: 754 sq km
  land: 754 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Dominican Republic
  total: 48,730 sq km
  land: 48,380 sq km
  water: 350 sq km

Ecuador
  total: 283,560 sq km
  land: 276,840 sq km
  water: 6,720 sq km
  note: includes Galapagos Islands

Egypt
  total: 1,001,450 sq km
  land: 995,450 sq km
  water: 6,000 sq km

El Salvador
  total: 21,040 sq km
  land: 20,720 sq km
  water: 320 sq km

Equatorial Guinea
  total: 28,051 sq km
  land: 28,051 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Eritrea
  total: 121,320 sq km
  land: 121,320 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Estonia
  total: 45,226 sq km
  land: 43,211 sq km
  water: 2,015 sq km
  note: includes 1,520 islands in the Baltic Sea

Ethiopia
  total: 1,127,127 sq km
  land: 1,119,683 sq km
  water: 7,444 sq km

European Union
  total: 4,324,782 sq km

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  total: 12,173 sq km
  land: 12,173 sq km
  water: 0 sq km
  note: includes the two main islands of East and West Falkland and
  about 200 small islands

Faroe Islands
  total: 1,399 sq km
  land: 1,399 sq km
  water: 0 sq km (some lakes and streams)

Fiji
  total: 18,270 sq km
  land: 18,270 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Finland
  total: 338,145 sq km
  land: 304,473 sq km
  water: 33,672 sq km

France
  total: 643,427 sq km; 547,030 sq km (metropolitan France)
  land: 640,053 sq km; 545,630 sq km (metropolitan France)
  water: 3,374 sq km; 1,400 sq km (metropolitan France)
  note: the first numbers include the overseas regions of French
  Guiana, Guadeloupe, Martinique, and Reunion

French Polynesia
  total: 4,167 sq km (118 islands and atolls)
  land: 3,660 sq km
  water: 507 sq km

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  Ile Amsterdam (Ile Amsterdam et
  Ile Saint-Paul): total - 55 sq km; land - 55 sq km; water - 0 sq km
  Ile Saint-Paul (Ile Amsterdam et Ile Saint-Paul): total - 7 sq km;
  land - 7 sq km; water - 0 sq km
  Iles Crozet: total - 352 sq km; land - 352 sq km; water - 0 sq km
  Iles Kerguelen: total - 7,215 sq km; land - 7,215 sq km; water - 0
  sq km
  Bassas da India (Iles Eparses): total - 80 sq km; land - 0.2 sq km;
  water - 79.8 sq km (lagoon)
  Europa Island (Iles Eparses): total - 28 sq km; land - 28 sq km;
  water - 0 sq km
  Glorioso Islands (Iles Eparses): total - 5 sq km; land - 5 sq km;
  water - 0 sq km
  Juan de Nova Island (Iles Eparses): total - 4.4 sq km; land - 4.4 sq
  km; water - 0 sq km
  Tromelin Island (Iles Eparses): total - 1 sq km; land - 1 sq km;
  water - 0 sq km
  note: excludes "Adelie Land" claim of about 500,000 sq km in
  Antarctica that is not recognized by the US

Gabon
  total: 267,667 sq km
  land: 257,667 sq km
  water: 10,000 sq km

Gambia, The
  total: 11,300 sq km
  land: 10,000 sq km
  water: 1,300 sq km

Gaza Strip
  total: 360 sq km
  land: 360 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Georgia
  total: 69,700 sq km
  land: 69,700 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Germany
  total: 357,021 sq km
  land: 349,223 sq km
  water: 7,798 sq km

Ghana
  total: 239,460 sq km
  land: 230,940 sq km
  water: 8,520 sq km

Gibraltar
  total: 6.5 sq km
  land: 6.5 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Greece
  total: 131,940 sq km
  land: 130,800 sq km
  water: 1,140 sq km

Greenland
  total: 2,166,086 sq km
  land: 2,166,086 sq km (410,449 sq km ice-free, 1,755,637 sq km
  ice-covered) (2000 est.)

Grenada
  total: 344 sq km
  land: 344 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Guam
  total: 541.3 sq km
  land: 541.3 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Guatemala
  total: 108,890 sq km
  land: 108,430 sq km
  water: 460 sq km

Guernsey
  total: 78 sq km
  land: 78 sq km
  water: 0 sq km
  note: includes Alderney, Guernsey, Herm, Sark, and some other
  smaller islands

Guinea
  total: 245,857 sq km
  land: 245,857 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Guinea-Bissau
  total: 36,120 sq km
  land: 28,000 sq km
  water: 8,120 sq km

Guyana
  total: 214,970 sq km
  land: 196,850 sq km
  water: 18,120 sq km

Haiti
  total: 27,750 sq km
  land: 27,560 sq km
  water: 190 sq km

Heard Island and McDonald Islands
  total: 412 sq km
  land: 412 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Holy See (Vatican City)
  total: 0.44 sq km
  land: 0.44 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Honduras
  total: 112,090 sq km
  land: 111,890 sq km
  water: 200 sq km

Hong Kong
  total: 1,092 sq km
  land: 1,042 sq km
  water: 50 sq km

Hungary
  total: 93,030 sq km
  land: 92,340 sq km
  water: 690 sq km

Iceland
  total: 103,000 sq km
  land: 100,250 sq km
  water: 2,750 sq km

India
  total: 3,287,590 sq km
  land: 2,973,190 sq km
  water: 314,400 sq km

Indian Ocean
  total: 68.556 million sq km
  note: includes Andaman Sea, Arabian Sea, Bay of Bengal, Flores Sea,
  Great Australian Bight, Gulf of Aden, Gulf of Oman, Java Sea,
  Mozambique Channel, Persian Gulf, Red Sea, Savu Sea, Strait of
  Malacca, Timor Sea, and other tributary water bodies

Indonesia
  total: 1,919,440 sq km
  land: 1,826,440 sq km
  water: 93,000 sq km

Iran
  total: 1.648 million sq km
  land: 1.636 million sq km
  water: 12,000 sq km

Iraq
  total: 437,072 sq km
  land: 432,162 sq km
  water: 4,910 sq km

Ireland
  total: 70,280 sq km
  land: 68,890 sq km
  water: 1,390 sq km

Isle of Man
  total: 572 sq km
  land: 572 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Israel
  total: 20,770 sq km
  land: 20,330 sq km
  water: 440 sq km

Italy
  total: 301,230 sq km
  land: 294,020 sq km
  water: 7,210 sq km
  note: includes Sardinia and Sicily

Jamaica
  total: 10,991 sq km
  land: 10,831 sq km
  water: 160 sq km

Jan Mayen
  total: 377 sq km
  land: 377 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Japan
  total: 377,835 sq km
  land: 374,744 sq km
  water: 3,091 sq km
  note: includes Bonin Islands (Ogasawara-gunto), Daito-shoto,
  Minami-jima, Okino-tori-shima, Ryukyu Islands (Nansei-shoto), and
  Volcano Islands (Kazan-retto)

Jersey
  total: 116 sq km
  land: 116 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Jordan
  total: 92,300 sq km
  land: 91,971 sq km
  water: 329 sq km

Kazakhstan
  total: 2,717,300 sq km
  land: 2,669,800 sq km
  water: 47,500 sq km

Kenya
  total: 582,650 sq km
  land: 569,250 sq km
  water: 13,400 sq km

Kiribati
  total: 811 sq km
  land: 811 sq km
  water: 0 sq km
  note: includes three island groups - Gilbert Islands, Line Islands,
  Phoenix Islands

Korea, North
  total: 120,540 sq km
  land: 120,410 sq km
  water: 130 sq km

Korea, South
  total: 98,480 sq km
  land: 98,190 sq km
  water: 290 sq km

Kosovo
  total: 10,887 sq km
  land: 10,887 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Kuwait
  total: 17,820 sq km
  land: 17,820 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Kyrgyzstan
  total: 198,500 sq km
  land: 191,300 sq km
  water: 7,200 sq km

Laos
  total: 236,800 sq km
  land: 230,800 sq km
  water: 6,000 sq km

Latvia
  total: 64,589 sq km
  land: 63,589 sq km
  water: 1,000 sq km

Lebanon
  total: 10,400 sq km
  land: 10,230 sq km
  water: 170 sq km

Lesotho
  total: 30,355 sq km
  land: 30,355 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Liberia
  total: 111,370 sq km
  land: 96,320 sq km
  water: 15,050 sq km

Libya
  total: 1,759,540 sq km
  land: 1,759,540 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Liechtenstein
  total: 160 sq km
  land: 160 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Lithuania
  total: 65,300 sq km
  land: NA sq km
  water: NA sq km

Luxembourg
  total: 2,586 sq km
  land: 2,586 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Macau
  total: 28.2 sq km
  land: 28.2 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Macedonia
  total: 25,333 sq km
  land: 24,856 sq km
  water: 477 sq km

Madagascar
  total: 587,040 sq km
  land: 581,540 sq km
  water: 5,500 sq km

Malawi
  total: 118,480 sq km
  land: 94,080 sq km
  water: 24,400 sq km

Malaysia
  total: 329,750 sq km
  land: 328,550 sq km
  water: 1,200 sq km

Maldives
  total: 300 sq km
  land: 300 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Mali
  total: 1.24 million sq km
  land: 1.22 million sq km
  water: 20,000 sq km

Malta
  total: 316 sq km
  land: 316 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Marshall Islands
  total: 181.3 sq km
  land: 181.3 sq km
  water: 0 sq km
  note: the archipelago includes 11,673 sq km of lagoon waters and
  includes the atolls of Bikini, Enewetak, Kwajalein, Majuro,
  Rongelap, and Utirik

Mauritania
  total: 1,030,700 sq km
  land: 1,030,400 sq km
  water: 300 sq km

Mauritius
  total: 2,040 sq km
  land: 2,030 sq km
  water: 10 sq km
  note: includes Agalega Islands, Cargados Carajos Shoals (Saint
  Brandon), and Rodrigues

Mayotte
  total: 374 sq km
  land: 374 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Mexico
  total: 1,972,550 sq km
  land: 1,923,040 sq km
  water: 49,510 sq km

Micronesia, Federated States of
  total: 702 sq km
  land: 702 sq km
  water: 0 sq km (fresh water only)
  note: includes Pohnpei (Ponape), Chuuk (Truk) Islands, Yap Islands,
  and Kosrae (Kosaie)

Moldova
  total: 33,843 sq km
  land: 33,371 sq km
  water: 472 sq km

Monaco
  total: 1.95 sq km
  land: 1.95 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Mongolia
  total: 1,564,116 sq km
  land: 1,554,731 sq km
  water: 9,385 sq km

Montenegro
  total: 14,026 sq km
  land: 13,812 sq km
  water: 214 sq km

Montserrat
  total: 102 sq km
  land: 102 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Morocco
  total: 446,550 sq km
  land: 446,300 sq km
  water: 250 sq km

Mozambique
  total: 801,590 sq km
  land: 784,090 sq km
  water: 17,500 sq km

Namibia
  total: 825,418 sq km
  land: 825,418 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Nauru
  total: 21 sq km
  land: 21 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Navassa Island
  total: 5.4 sq km
  land: 5.4 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Nepal
  total: 147,181 sq km
  land: 143,181 sq km
  water: 4,000 sq km

Netherlands
  total: 41,526 sq km
  land: 33,883 sq km
  water: 7,643 sq km

Netherlands Antilles
  total: 960 sq km
  land: 960 sq km
  water: 0 sq km
  note: includes Bonaire, Curacao, Saba, Sint Eustatius, and Sint
  Maarten (Dutch part of the island of Saint Martin)

New Caledonia
  total: 19,060 sq km
  land: 18,575 sq km
  water: 485 sq km

New Zealand
  total: 268,680 sq km
  land: 268,021 sq km
  water: NA
  note: includes Antipodes Islands, Auckland Islands, Bounty Islands,
  Campbell Island, Chatham Islands, and Kermadec Islands

Nicaragua
  total: 129,494 sq km
  land: 120,254 sq km
  water: 9,240 sq km

Niger
  total: 1.267 million sq km
  land: 1,266,700 sq km
  water: 300 sq km

Nigeria
  total: 923,768 sq km
  land: 910,768 sq km
  water: 13,000 sq km

Niue
  total: 260 sq km
  land: 260 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Norfolk Island
  total: 34.6 sq km
  land: 34.6 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Northern Mariana Islands
  total: 477 sq km
  land: 477 sq km
  water: 0 sq km
  note: includes 14 islands including Saipan, Rota, and Tinian

Norway
  total: 323,802 sq km
  land: 307,442 sq km
  water: 16,360 sq km

Oman
  total: 212,460 sq km
  land: 212,460 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Pacific Ocean
  total: 155.557 million sq km
  note: includes Bali Sea, Bering Sea, Bering Strait, Coral Sea, East
  China Sea, Gulf of Alaska, Gulf of Tonkin, Philippine Sea, Sea of
  Japan, Sea of Okhotsk, South China Sea, Tasman Sea, and other
  tributary water bodies

Pakistan
  total: 803,940 sq km
  land: 778,720 sq km
  water: 25,220 sq km

Palau
  total: 458 sq km
  land: 458 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Panama
  total: 78,200 sq km
  land: 75,990 sq km
  water: 2,210 sq km

Papua New Guinea
  total: 462,840 sq km
  land: 452,860 sq km
  water: 9,980 sq km

Paracel Islands
  total: NA sq km
  land: NA sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Paraguay
  total: 406,750 sq km
  land: 397,300 sq km
  water: 9,450 sq km

Peru
  total: 1,285,220 sq km
  land: 1.28 million sq km
  water: 5,220 sq km

Philippines
  total: 300,000 sq km
  land: 298,170 sq km
  water: 1,830 sq km

Pitcairn Islands
  total: 47 sq km
  land: 47 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Poland
  total: 312,679 sq km
  land: 304,459 sq km
  water: 8,220 sq km

Portugal
  total: 92,391 sq km
  land: 91,951 sq km
  water: 440 sq km
  note: includes Azores and Madeira Islands

Puerto Rico
  total: 13,790 sq km
  land: 8,870 sq km
  water: 4,921 sq km

Qatar
  total: 11,437 sq km
  land: 11,437 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Romania
  total: 237,500 sq km
  land: 230,340 sq km
  water: 7,160 sq km

Russia
  total: 17,075,200 sq km
  land: 16,995,800 sq km
  water: 79,400 sq km

Rwanda
  total: 26,338 sq km
  land: 24,948 sq km
  water: 1,390 sq km

Saint Barthelemy
  21 sq km

Saint Helena
  total: 413 sq km
  land: Saint Helena Island 122 sq km; Ascension Island 90 sq km;
  Tristan da Cunha island group 201 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  total: 261 sq km (Saint Kitts 168 sq km; Nevis
  93 sq km)
  land: 261 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Saint Lucia
  total: 616 sq km
  land: 606 sq km
  water: 10 sq km

Saint Martin
  total: 54.4 sq km
  land: 54.4 sq km
  water: NEGL

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  total: 242 sq km
  land: 242 sq km
  water: 0 sq km
  note: includes eight small islands in the Saint Pierre and the
  Miquelon groups

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  total: 389 sq km (Saint Vincent 344
  sq km)
  land: 389 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Samoa
  total: 2,944 sq km
  land: 2,934 sq km
  water: 10 sq km

San Marino
  total: 61.2 sq km
  land: 61.2 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Sao Tome and Principe
  total: 1,001 sq km
  land: 1,001 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Saudi Arabia
  total: 2,149,690 sq km
  land: 2,149,690 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Senegal
  total: 196,190 sq km
  land: 192,000 sq km
  water: 4,190 sq km

Serbia
  total: 77,474 sq km
  land: 77,474 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Seychelles
  total: 455 sq km
  land: 455 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Sierra Leone
  total: 71,740 sq km
  land: 71,620 sq km
  water: 120 sq km

Singapore
  total: 692.7 sq km
  land: 682.7 sq km
  water: 10 sq km

Slovakia
  total: 48,845 sq km
  land: 48,800 sq km
  water: 45 sq km

Slovenia
  total: 20,273 sq km
  land: 20,151 sq km
  water: 122 sq km

Solomon Islands
  total: 28,450 sq km
  land: 27,540 sq km
  water: 910 sq km

Somalia
  total: 637,657 sq km
  land: 627,337 sq km
  water: 10,320 sq km

South Africa
  total: 1,219,912 sq km
  land: 1,219,912 sq km
  water: 0 sq km
  note: includes Prince Edward Islands (Marion Island and Prince
  Edward Island)

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  total: 3,903 sq km
  land: 3,903 sq km
  water: 0 sq km
  note: includes Shag Rocks, Black Rock, Clerke Rocks, South Georgia
  Island, Bird Island, and the South Sandwich Islands, which consist
  of 11 islands

Southern Ocean
  total: 20.327 million sq km
  note: includes Amundsen Sea, Bellingshausen Sea, part of the Drake
  Passage, Ross Sea, a small part of the Scotia Sea, Weddell Sea, and
  other tributary water bodies

Spain
  total: 504,782 sq km
  land: 499,542 sq km
  water: 5,240 sq km
  note: there are two autonomous cities - Ceuta and Melilla - and 17
  autonomous communities including Balearic Islands and Canary
  Islands, and three small Spanish possessions off the coast of
  Morocco - Islas Chafarinas, Penon de Alhucemas, and Penon de Velez
  de la Gomera

Spratly Islands
  total: less than 5 sq km
  land: less than 5 sq km
  water: 0 sq km
  note: includes 100 or so islets, coral reefs, and sea mounts
  scattered over an area of nearly 410,000 sq km of the central South
  China Sea

Sri Lanka
  total: 65,610 sq km
  land: 64,740 sq km
  water: 870 sq km

Sudan
  total: 2,505,810 sq km
  land: 2.376 million sq km
  water: 129,810 sq km

Suriname
  total: 163,270 sq km
  land: 161,470 sq km
  water: 1,800 sq km

Svalbard
  total: 61,020 sq km
  land: 61,020 sq km
  water: 0 sq km
  note: includes Spitsbergen and Bjornoya (Bear Island)

Swaziland
  total: 17,363 sq km
  land: 17,203 sq km
  water: 160 sq km

Sweden
  total: 449,964 sq km
  land: 410,934 sq km
  water: 39,030 sq km

Switzerland
  total: 41,290 sq km
  land: 39,770 sq km
  water: 1,520 sq km

Syria
  total: 185,180 sq km
  land: 184,050 sq km
  water: 1,130 sq km
  note: includes 1,295 sq km of Israeli-occupied territory

Taiwan
  total: 35,980 sq km
  land: 32,260 sq km
  water: 3,720 sq km
  note: includes the Pescadores, Matsu, and Quemoy islands

Tajikistan
  total: 143,100 sq km
  land: 142,700 sq km
  water: 400 sq km

Tanzania
  total: 945,087 sq km
  land: 886,037 sq km
  water: 59,050 sq km
  note: includes the islands of Mafia, Pemba, and Zanzibar

Thailand
  total: 514,000 sq km
  land: 511,770 sq km
  water: 2,230 sq km

Timor-Leste
  total: 15,007 sq km
  land: NA sq km
  water: NA sq km

Togo
  total: 56,785 sq km
  land: 54,385 sq km
  water: 2,400 sq km

Tokelau
  total: 10 sq km
  land: 10 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Tonga
  total: 748 sq km
  land: 718 sq km
  water: 30 sq km

Trinidad and Tobago
  total: 5,128 sq km
  land: 5,128 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Tunisia
  total: 163,610 sq km
  land: 155,360 sq km
  water: 8,250 sq km

Turkey
  total: 780,580 sq km
  land: 770,760 sq km
  water: 9,820 sq km

Turkmenistan
  total: 488,100 sq km
  land: 488,100 sq km
  water: NEGL

Turks and Caicos Islands
  total: 430 sq km
  land: 430 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Tuvalu
  total: 26 sq km
  land: 26 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Uganda
  total: 236,040 sq km
  land: 199,710 sq km
  water: 36,330 sq km

Ukraine
  total: 603,700 sq km
  land: 603,700 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

United Arab Emirates
  total: 83,600 sq km
  land: 83,600 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

United Kingdom
  total: 244,820 sq km
  land: 241,590 sq km
  water: 3,230 sq km
  note: includes Rockall and Shetland Islands

United States
  total: 9,826,630 sq km
  land: 9,161,923 sq km
  water: 664,707 sq km
  note: includes only the 50 states and District of Columbia

United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges
  total - 6,959.41 sq
  km; emergent land - 22.41 sq km; submerged - 6,937 sq km
  Baker Island: total - 129.1 sq km; emergent land - 2.1 sq km;
  submerged - 127 sq km
  Howland Island: total - 138.6 sq km; emergent land - 2.6 sq km;
  submerged - 136 sq km
  Jarvis Island: total - 152 sq km; emergent land - 5 sq km; submerged
  - 147 sq km
  Johnston Atoll: total - 276.6 sq km; emergent land - 2.6 sq km;
  submerged - 274 sq km
  Kingman Reef: total - 1,958.01 sq km; emergent land - 0.01 sq km;
  submerged - 1,958 sq km
  Midway Islands: total - 2,355.2 sq km; emergent land - 6.2 sq km;
  submerged - 2,349 sq km
  Palmyra Atoll: total - 1,949.9 sq km; emergent land - 3.9 sq km;
  submerged - 1,946 sq km

Uruguay
  total: 176,220 sq km
  land: 173,620 sq km
  water: 2,600 sq km

Uzbekistan
  total: 447,400 sq km
  land: 425,400 sq km
  water: 22,000 sq km

Vanuatu
  total: 12,200 sq km
  land: 12,200 sq km
  water: 0 sq km
  note: includes more than 80 islands, about 65 of which are inhabited

Venezuela
  total: 912,050 sq km
  land: 882,050 sq km
  water: 30,000 sq km

Vietnam
  total: 329,560 sq km
  land: 325,360 sq km
  water: 4,200 sq km

Virgin Islands
  total: 1,910 sq km
  land: 346 sq km
  water: 1,564 sq km

Wake Island
  total: 6.5 sq km
  land: 6.5 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

Wallis and Futuna
  total: 274 sq km
  land: 274 sq km
  water: 0 sq km
  note: includes Ile Uvea (Wallis Island), Ile Futuna (Futuna Island),
  Ile Alofi, and 20 islets

West Bank
  total: 5,860 sq km
  land: 5,640 sq km
  water: 220 sq km
  note: includes West Bank, Latrun Salient, and the northwest quarter
  of the Dead Sea, but excludes Mt. Scopus; East Jerusalem and
  Jerusalem No Man's Land are also included only as a means of
  depicting the entire area occupied by Israel in 1967

Western Sahara
  total: 266,000 sq km
  land: 266,000 sq km
  water: 0 sq km

World
  total: 510.072 million sq km
  land: 148.94 million sq km
  water: 361.132 million sq km
  note: 70.9% of the world's surface is water, 29.1% is land

Yemen
  total: 527,970 sq km
  land: 527,970 sq km
  water: 0 sq km
  note: includes Perim, Socotra, the former Yemen Arab Republic (YAR
  or North Yemen), and the former People's Democratic Republic of
  Yemen (PDRY or South Yemen)

Zambia
  total: 752,614 sq km
  land: 740,724 sq km
  water: 11,890 sq km

Zimbabwe
  total: 390,580 sq km
  land: 386,670 sq km
  water: 3,910 sq km

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2149  Diplomatic representation in the US


Afghanistan
  chief of mission: Ambassador Said Tayeb JAWAD
  chancery: 2341 Wyoming Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 483-6410
  FAX: [1] (202) 483-6488
  consulate(s) general: Los Angeles, New York

Akrotiri
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Albania
  chief of mission: Ambassador Aleksander SALLABANDA
  chancery: 2100 S Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 223-4942
  FAX: [1] (202) 628-7342

Algeria
  chief of mission: Ambassador Abdallah BAALI
  chancery: 2118 Kalorama Road NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 265-2800
  FAX: [1] (202) 667-2174

American Samoa
  none (territory of the US)

Andorra
  chief of mission: Ambassador Carles FONT-ROSSELL
  chancery: 2 United Nations Plaza, 25th Floor, New York, NY 10017
  telephone: [1] (212) 750-8064
  FAX: [1] (212) 750-6630

Angola
  chief of mission: Ambassador Josefina Perpetua Pitra DIAKITE
  chancery: 2108 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20009
  telephone: [1] (202) 785-1156
  FAX: [1] (202) 785-1258
  consulate(s) general: Houston, New York

Anguilla
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Antigua and Barbuda
  chief of mission: Ambassador Deborah Mae LOVELL
  chancery: 3216 New Mexico Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20016
  telephone: [1] (202) 362-5122
  FAX: [1] (202) 362-5225
  consulate(s) general: Miami

Argentina
  chief of mission: Ambassador Hector Marcos TIMERMAN
  chancery: 1600 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009
  telephone: [1] (202) 238-6400
  FAX: [1] (202) 332-3171
  consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami,
  New York

Armenia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Tatoul MARKARIAN
  chancery: 2225 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 319-1976
  FAX: [1] (202) 319-2982
  consulate(s) general: Los Angeles

Aruba
  none (represented by the Kingdom of the Netherlands); note -
  Mr. Henry BAARH, Minister Plenipotentiary for Aruba at the Embassy
  of the Kingdom of the Netherlands

Ashmore and Cartier Islands
  none (territory of Australia)

Australia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Dennis J. RICHARDSON
  chancery: 1601 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036
  telephone: [1] (202) 797-3000
  FAX: [1] (202) 797-3168
  consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Chicago, Honolulu, Los Angeles, New
  York, San Francisco

Austria
  chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Deputy Chief of
  Mission Andreas Riecken
  chancery: 3524 International Court NW, Washington, DC 20008-3035
  telephone: [1] (202) 895-6700
  FAX: [1] (202) 895-6750
  consulate(s) general: Chicago, Los Angeles, New York

Azerbaijan
  chief of mission: Ambassador Yashar ALIYEV
  chancery: 2741 34th Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 337-3500
  FAX: [1] (202) 337-5911
  Consulate(s) general: Los Angeles

Bahamas, The
  chief of mission: Ambassador Cornelius A. SMITH
  chancery: 2220 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 319-2660
  FAX: [1] (202) 319-2668
  consulate(s) general: Miami, New York

Bahrain
  chief of mission: Ambassador Houda Ezra Ibrahim NUNU
  chancery: 3502 International Drive NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 342-1111
  FAX: [1] (202) 362-2192
  consulate(s) general: New York

Bangladesh
  chief of mission: Ambassador M. Humayun KABIR
  chancery: 3510 International Drive NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 244-0183
  FAX: [1] (202) 244-7830/2771
  consulate(s) general: Los Angeles, New York

Barbados
  chief of mission: Ambassador Michael Ian KING
  chancery: 2144 Wyoming Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 939-9200
  FAX: [1] (202) 332-7467
  consulate(s) general: Miami, New York
  consulate(s): Los Angeles

Belarus
  chief of mission: Ambassador Mikhail KHVOSTOV
  chancery: 1619 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009
  telephone: [1] (202) 986-1604
  FAX: [1] (202) 986-1805
  consulate(s) general: New York

Belgium
  chief of mission: Ambassador Dominique STRUYE DE SWIELANDE
  chancery: 3330 Garfield Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 333-6900
  FAX: [1] (202) 333-3079
  consulate(s) general: Los Angeles, New York
  consulate(s): Atlanta

Belize
  chief of mission: Ambassador Nestor MENDEZ
  chancery: 2535 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 332-9636
  FAX: [1] (202) 332-6888
  consulate(s) general: Los Angeles

Benin
  chief of mission: Ambassador Cyrille Segbe OGUIN
  chancery: 2124 Kalorama Road NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 232-6656
  FAX: [1] (202) 265-1996

Bermuda
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Bhutan
  none; note - the Permanent Mission to the UN for Bhutan has
  consular jurisdiction in the US; address: 763 First Avenue, New
  York, NY 10017; telephone [1] (212) 682-2268; FAX [1] (212) 661-0551
  consulate(s) general: New York

Bolivia
  chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires
  Erika DUENAS
  chancery: 3014 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 483-4410
  FAX: [1] (202) 328-3712
  consulate(s) general: Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New York,
  Oklahoma City, San Francisco, Seattle, Washington, DC

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  chief of mission: Ambassador Bisera TURKOVIC
  chancery: 2109 E Street NW, Washington, DC 20037
  telephone: [1] (202) 337-1500
  FAX: [1] (202) 337-1502
  consulate(s) general: Chicago, New York

Botswana
  chief of mission: Ambassador Lapologang Caesar LEKOA
  chancery: 1531-1533 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036
  telephone: [1] (202) 244-4990
  FAX: [1] (202) 244-4164

Brazil
  chief of mission: Ambassador Antonio de Aguiar PATRIOTA
  chancery: 3006 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 238-2700
  FAX: [1] (202) 238-2827
  consulate(s) general: Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami,
  New York, San Francisco

British Indian Ocean Territory
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

British Virgin Islands
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Brunei
  chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires
  Angela SHIM
  chancery: 3520 International Court NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 237-1838
  FAX: [1] (202) 885-0560

Bulgaria
  chief of mission: Ambassador Latechezar PETKOV
  chancery: 1621 22nd Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 387-0174
  FAX: [1] (202) 234-7973
  consulate(s) general: Chicago, Los Angeles, New York

Burkina Faso
  chief of mission: Ambassador Paramanga Ernest YONLI
  chancery: 2340 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 332-5577
  FAX: [1] (202) 667-1882

Burma
  chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires MYINT
  LWIN
  chancery: 2300 S Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 332-3344
  FAX: [1] (202) 332-4351
  consulate(s) general: New York

Burundi
  chief of mission: Ambassador Celestin NIYONGABO
  chancery: Suite 212, 2233 Wisconsin Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20007
  telephone: [1] (202) 342-2574
  FAX: [1] (202) 342-2578

Cambodia
  chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires
  MENG EANG NAY
  chancery: 4530 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20011
  telephone: [1] (202) 726-7742
  FAX: [1] (202) 726-8381

Cameroon
  chief of mission: Ambassador Joseph FOE-ATANGANA
  chancery: 2349 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 265-8790
  FAX: [1] (202) 387-3826

Canada
  chief of mission: Ambassador Michael WILSON
  chancery: 501 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20001
  telephone: [1] (202) 682-1740
  FAX: [1] (202) 682-7701
  consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Boston, Buffalo, Chicago, Dallas,
  Denver, Detroit, Los Angeles, Miami, Minneapolis, New York, Phoenix,
  San Diego, San Francisco, Seattle, Tucson
  consulate(s): Anchorage, Houston, Philadelphia, Princeton (New
  Jersey), Raleigh, San Jose (California)

Cape Verde
  chief of mission: Ambassador Fatima Lima VEIGA
  chancery: 3415 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20007
  telephone: [1] (202) 965-6820
  FAX: [1] (202) 965-1207
  consulate(s) general: Boston

Cayman Islands
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Central African Republic
  chief of mission: Ambassador Emmanuel
  TOUABOY
  chancery: 1618 22nd Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 483-7800
  FAX: [1] (202) 332-9893

Chad
  chief of mission: Ambassador Mahamat Adam BECHIR
  chancery: 2002 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20009
  telephone: [1] (202) 462-4009
  FAX: [1] (202) 265-1937

Chile
  chief of mission: Ambassador Mariano FERNANDEZ
  chancery: 1732 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036
  telephone: [1] (202) 785-1746
  FAX: [1] (202) 887-5579
  consulate(s) general: Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New
  York, Philadelphia, San Francisco, San Juan (Puerto Rico)

China
  chief of mission: Ambassador ZHOU Wenzhong
  chancery: 2300 Connecticut Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 328-2500
  FAX: [1] (202) 328-2582
  consulate(s) general: Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, New York, San
  Francisco

Christmas Island
  none (territory of Australia)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  none (territory of Australia)

Colombia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Carolina BARCO Isakson
  chancery: 2118 Leroy Place NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 387-8338
  FAX: [1] (202) 232-8643
  consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los
  Angeles, Miami, New York, San Francisco, San Juan (Puerto Rico),
  Washington, DC

Comoros
  chief of mission: Representative to the US and Ambassador to
  the UN Mohamed TOIHIRI
  chancery: Mission to the US, 866 United Nations Plaza, Suite 418,
  New York, NY 10017
  telephone: [1] (212) 750-1637

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  chief of mission: Ambassador Faida
  MITIFU
  chancery: 1800 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009: note -
  Consular Office at 1726 M Street, NW, Washington, DC, 20036
  telephone: [1] (202) 234-7690, 7691
  FAX: [1] (202) 234-2609

Congo, Republic of the
  chief of mission: Ambassador Serge MOMBOULI
  chancery: 4891 Colorado Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20011
  telephone: [1] (202) 726-5500
  FAX: [1] (202) 726-1860

Cook Islands
  none (self-governing in free association with New
  Zealand)

Coral Sea Islands
  none (territory of Australia)

Costa Rica
  chief of mission: Ambassador Tomas DUENAS
  chancery: 2114 S Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 234-2945
  FAX: [1] (202) 265-4795
  consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami,
  New Orleans, New York, San Juan (Puerto Rico), Tampa (temporarily
  closed), Washington, DC
  consulate(s): San Francisco

Cote d'Ivoire
  chief of mission: Ambassador Yao Charles KOFFI
  chancery: 3421 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20007
  telephone: [1] (202) 797-0300
  FAX: [1] (202) 244-3088

Croatia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Kolinda GRABAR-KITAROVIC
  chancery: 2343 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 588-5899
  FAX: [1] (202) 588-8936
  consulate(s) general: Chicago, Los Angeles, New York

Cuba
  none; note - Cuba has an Interests Section in the Swiss
  Embassy, headed by Principal Officer Jorge BOLANOS Suarez; address:
  Cuban Interests Section, Swiss Embassy, 2630 16th Street NW,
  Washington, DC 20009; telephone: [1] (202) 797-8518; FAX: [1] (202)
  797-8521

Cyprus
  chief of mission: Ambassador Andreas KAKOURIS
  chancery: 2211 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 462-5772, 462-0873
  FAX: [1] (202) 483-6710
  consulate(s) general: New York
  note: representative of the Turkish Cypriot community in the US is
  Hilmi AKIL; office at 1667 K Street NW, Washington, DC; telephone
  [1] (202) 887-6198

Czech Republic
  chief of mission: Ambassador Petr KOLAR
  chancery: 3900 Spring of Freedom Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 274-9100
  FAX: [1] (202) 966-8540
  consulate(s) general: Chicago, Los Angeles, New York

Denmark
  chief of mission: Ambassador Friis Arne PETERSEN
  chancery: 3200 Whitehaven Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 234-4300
  FAX: [1] (202) 328-1470
  consulate(s) general: Chicago, New York

Dhekelia
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Djibouti
  chief of mission: Ambassador Roble OLHAYE Oudine
  chancery: Suite 515, 1156 15th Street NW, Washington, DC 20005
  telephone: [1] (202) 331-0270
  FAX: [1] (202) 331-0302

Dominica
  chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); note - Judith Ann
  ROLLE (Charge d'Affaires)
  chancery: 3216 New Mexico Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20016
  telephone: [1] (202) 364-6781
  FAX: [1] (202) 364-6791
  consulate(s) general: New York

Dominican Republic
  chief of mission: Ambassador Flavio Dario ESPINAL
  Jacobo
  chancery: 1715 22nd Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 332-6280
  FAX: [1] (202) 265-8057
  consulate(s) general: Anchorage, Boston, Chicago, Mayaguez (Puerto
  Rico), Miami, New Orleans, New York, San Francisco, San Juan (Puerto
  Rico)

Ecuador
  chief of mission: Ambassador Luis Benigno GALLEGOS Chiriboga
  chancery: 2535 15th Street NW, Washington, DC 20009
  telephone: [1] (202) 234-7200
  FAX: [1] (202) 667-3482
  consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Denver,
  Houston, Jersey City (New Jersey), Los Angeles, Miami, New Orleans,
  New York, San Francisco, San Juan (Puerto Rico), Washington, DC

Egypt
  chief of mission: Ambassador (designate) Sameh SHOUKRY
  chancery: 3521 International Court NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 895-5400
  FAX: [1] (202) 244-4319
  consulate(s) general: Chicago, Houston, New York, San Francisco

El Salvador
  chief of mission: Ambassador Rene Antonio LEON Rodriguez
  chancery: 1400 16th Street, Washington, DC 20036
  telephone: [1] (202) 265-9671
  FAX: [1] (202) 234-3763
  consulate(s) general: Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Elizabeth (New
  Jersey), Houston, Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Miami, New York (2),
  Nogales (Arizona), Santa Ana (California), San Francisco, Washington
  (DC), Woodbridge (Virginia), Woodstock (Georgia)

Equatorial Guinea
  chief of mission: Ambassador Purificacion ANGUE
  ONDO
  chancery: 2020 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20009
  telephone: [1] (202) 518-5700
  FAX: [1] (202) 518-5252

Eritrea
  chief of mission: Ambassador GHIRMAI Ghebremariam
  chancery: 1708 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009
  telephone: [1] (202) 319-1991
  FAX: [1] (202) 319-1304
  consulate(s) general: Oakland (California)

Estonia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Vaino REINART
  chancery: 2131 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 588-0101
  FAX: [1] (202) 588-0108
  consulate(s) general: New York

Ethiopia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Samuel ASSEFA
  chancery: 3506 International Drive NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 364-1200
  FAX: [1] (202) 587-0195
  consulate(s) general: Los Angeles
  consulate(s): New York

European Union
  chief of mission: Ambassador John BRUTON
  chancery: 2300 M Street, NW, Washington, DC 20037
  telephone: [1] (202) 862-9500
  FAX: [1] (202) 429-1766

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  none (overseas territory of the
  UK; also claimed by Argentina)

Faroe Islands
  none (self-governing overseas administrative division
  of Denmark)

Fiji
  chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); note - Penijamini R.
  LOMALOMA (Charge d'Affaires)
  chancery: 2000 M Street, NW, Suite 710, Washington, DC 20036
  telephone: [1] (202) 466-8320
  FAX: [1] (202) 466-8325

Finland
  chief of mission: Ambassador Pekka LINTU
  chancery: 3301 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 298-5800
  FAX: [1] (202) 298-6030
  consulate(s) general: Los Angeles, New York

France
  chief of mission: Ambassador Pierre VIMONT
  chancery: 4101 Reservoir Road NW, Washington, DC 20007
  telephone: [1] (202) 944-6000
  FAX: [1] (202) 944-6166
  consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los
  Angeles, Miami, New Orleans, New York, San Francisco, Washington, DC

French Polynesia
  none (overseas lands of France)

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  none (overseas territory of
  France)

Gabon
  chief of mission: Ambassador Carlos BOUNGOU
  chancery: Suite 200, 2034 20th Street NW, Washington, DC 20009
  telephone: [1] (202) 797-1000
  FAX: [1] (202) 332-0668
  consulate(s): New York

Gambia, The
  chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires
  Abdul Rahman COLE
  chancery: Suite 600, 1424 K Street NW, Washington, DC 20005
  telephone: [1] (202) 785-1379
  FAX: [1] (202) 785-1430

Georgia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Vasil SIKHARULIDZE
  chancery: 2209 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 387-2390
  FAX: [1] (202) 393-4537

Germany
  chief of mission: Ambassador Klaus SCHARIOTH
  chancery: 4645 Reservoir Road NW, Washington, DC 20007
  telephone: [1] (202) 298-4000
  FAX: [1] (202) 298-4249
  consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los
  Angeles, Miami, New York, San Francisco

Ghana
  chief of mission: Ambassador Dr. Kwame BAWUAH-EDUSEI
  chancery: 3512 International Drive NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 785-1379
  FAX: [1] (202) 785-1430
  consulate(s) general: New York

Gibraltar
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Greece
  chief of mission: Ambassador Alexandros P. MALLIAS
  chancery: 2217 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 939-1300
  FAX: [1] (202) 939-1324
  consulate(s) general: Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, New York, San
  Francisco, Tampa
  consulate(s): Atlanta, Houston

Greenland
  none (self-governing overseas administrative division of
  Denmark)

Grenada
  chief of mission: Ambassador Denis G. ANTOINE
  chancery: 1701 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009
  telephone: [1] (202) 265-2561
  FAX: [1] (202) 265-2468
  consulate(s) general: New York

Guam
  none (territory of the US)

Guatemala
  chief of mission: Ambassador Francisco VILLAGRAN de Leon
  chancery: 2220 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 745-4952
  FAX: [1] (202) 745-1908
  consulate(s) general: Chicago, Denver, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami,
  New York, Providence, San Francisco

Guernsey
  none (British crown dependency)

Guinea
  chief of mission: Ambassador Mory Karamoko KABA
  chancery: 2112 Leroy Place NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 483-9420
  FAX: [1] (202) 483-8688

Guinea-Bissau
  chief of mission: none; note - Guinea-Bissau does not
  have official representation in Washington, DC

Guyana
  chief of mission: Ambassador Bayney KARRAN
  chancery: 2490 Tracy Place NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 265-6900
  FAX: [1] (202) 232-1297
  consulate(s) general: New York

Haiti
  chief of mission: Ambassador Raymond JOSEPH
  chancery: 2311 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 332-4090
  FAX: [1] (202) 745-7215
  consulate(s) general: Boston, Chicago, Miami, New York, San Juan
  (Puerto Rico)

Heard Island and McDonald Islands
  none (territory of Australia)

Holy See (Vatican City)
  chief of mission: Apostolic Nuncio
  Archbishop Pietro SAMBI
  chancery: 3339 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 333-7121
  FAX: [1] (202) 337-4036

Honduras
  chief of mission: Ambassador Roberto FLORES BERMUDEZ
  chancery: Suite 4-M, 3007 Tilden Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 966-7702
  FAX: [1] (202) 966-9751
  consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami,
  New Orleans, New York, Phoenix, San Francisco
  honorary consulate(s): Boston, Detroit, Jacksonville

Hong Kong
  none (special administrative region of China); Hong Kong
  Economic and Trade Office in Washington and two other cities carries
  out normal liaison and communication with the US Government and
  other US entities

Hungary
  chief of mission: Ambassador Ferenc SOMOGYI
  chancery: 3910 Shoemaker Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 362-6730
  FAX: [1] (202) 966-8135
  consulate(s) general: Chicago, Los Angeles, New York

Iceland
  chief of mission: Ambassador Albert JONSSON
  chancery: Suite 1200, 1156 15th Street NW, Washington, DC 20005-1704
  telephone: [1] (202) 265-6653
  FAX: [1] (202) 265-6656
  consulate(s) general: New York

India
  chief of mission: Ambassador Ranendra SEN
  chancery: 2107 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008; note -
  Consular Wing located at 2536 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington,
  DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 939-7000
  FAX: [1] (202) 265-4351
  consulate(s) general: Chicago, Houston, New York, San Francisco

Indonesia
  chief of mission: Ambassador SUDJADNAN Parnohadiningrat
  chancery: 2020 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036
  telephone: [1] (202) 775-5200
  FAX: [1] (202) 775-5365
  consulate(s) general: Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, New York, San
  Francisco

Iran
  none; note - Iran has an Interests Section in the Pakistani
  Embassy; address: Iranian Interests Section, Pakistani Embassy, 2209
  Wisconsin Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20007; telephone: [1] (202)
  965-4990; FAX [1] (202) 965-1073

Iraq
  chief of mission: Ambassador Samir Shakir al-SUMAYDI
  chancery: 3421 Massachusetts Ave, NW, Washington, DC 20007
  telephone: [1] (202) 742-1600
  FAX: [1] (202) 333-1129

Ireland
  chief of mission: Ambassador Michael COLLINS
  chancery: 2234 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 462-3939
  FAX: [1] (202) 232-5993
  consulate(s) general: Boston, Chicago, New York, San Francisco

Isle of Man
  none (British crown dependency)

Israel
  chief of mission: Ambassador Salai MERIDOR
  chancery: 3514 International Drive NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 364-5500
  FAX: [1] (202) 364-5607
  consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los
  Angeles, Miami, New York, Philadelphia, San Francisco

Italy
  chief of mission: Ambassador Giovanni CASTELLANETA
  chancery: 3000 Whitehaven Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 612-4400
  FAX: [1] (202) 518-2151
  consulate(s) general: Boston, Chicago, Houston, Miami, New York, Los
  Angeles, Philadelphia, San Francisco
  consulate(s): Detroit

Jamaica
  chief of mission: Ambassador Anthony JOHNSON
  chancery: 1520 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036
  telephone: [1] (202) 452-0660
  FAX: [1] (202) 452-0081
  consulate(s) general: Miami, New York

Japan
  chief of mission: Ambassador Ichiro FUJISAKI
  chancery: 2520 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 238-6700
  FAX: [1] (202) 328-2187
  consulate(s) general: Anchorage, Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Denver,
  Detroit, Agana (Guam), Honolulu, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New
  Orleans, New York, Portland (Oregon), San Francisco, Seattle

Jersey
  none (British crown dependency)

Jordan
  chief of mission: Ambassador ZEID Ra'ad Zeid al-Hussein,
  Prince
  chancery: 3504 International Drive NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 966-2664
  FAX: [1] (202) 966-3110

Kazakhstan
  chief of mission: Ambassador Yerlan IDRISOV
  chancery: 1401 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20036
  telephone: [1] (202) 232-5488
  FAX: [1] (202) 232-5845
  consulate(s): New York

Kenya
  chief of mission: Ambassador Peter Rateng Oginga OGEGO
  chancery: 2249 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 387-6101
  FAX: [1] (202) 462-3829
  consulate(s) general: Los Angeles

Kiribati
  Kiribati does not have an embassy in the US; there is an
  honorary consulate in Honolulu

Korea, North
  none; North Korea has a Permanent Mission to the UN in
  New York

Korea, South
  chief of mission: Ambassador LEE Tae-sik
  chancery: 2450 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 939-5600
  FAX: [1] (202) 387-0205
  consulate(s) general: Agana (Guam), Atlanta, Boston, Chicago,
  Honolulu, Houston, Los Angeles, New York, San Francisco, Seattle

Kuwait
  chief of mission: Ambassador SALIM al-Abdallah al-Jabir
  al-Sabah
  chancery: 2940 Tilden Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 966-0702
  FAX: [1] (202) 966-0517

Kyrgyzstan
  chief of mission: Ambassador Zamira SYDYKOVA
  chancery: 2360 Massachusetts Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 449-9822
  FAX: [1] (202) 386-7550
  consulate(s): New York

Laos
  chief of mission: Ambassador PHIANE Philakone
  chancery: 2222 S Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 332-6416
  FAX: [1] (202) 332-4923

Latvia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Andrejs PILDEGOVICS
  chancery: 2306 Massachusetts Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 328-2840
  FAX: [1] (202) 328-2860

Lebanon
  chief of mission: Ambassador Antoine CHEDID
  chancery: 2560 28th Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 939-6300
  FAX: [1] (202) 939-6324
  consulate(s) general: Detroit, New York, Los Angeles

Lesotho
  chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires
  Mabasia MOHOBANE
  chancery: 2511 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 797-5533 through 5536
  FAX: [1] (202) 234-6815

Liberia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Milton Nathaniel BARNES
  chancery: 5201 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20011
  telephone: [1] (202) 723-0437
  FAX: [1] (202) 723-0436
  consulate(s) general: New York

Libya
  chief of mission: ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Ali
  Suleiman AUJALI
  chancery: 2600 Virginia Avenue NW, Suite 705, Washington, DC 20037
  telephone: [1] (202) 944-9601
  FAX: [1] (202) 944-9060

Liechtenstein
  chief of mission: Ambassador Claudia FRITSCHE
  chancery: 888 17th Street NW, Suite 1250, Washington, DC 20006
  telephone: [1] (202) 331-0590
  FAX: [1] (202) 331-3221

Lithuania
  chief of mission: Ambassador Audrius BRUZGA
  chancery: temporary address: 2300 Clarendon Boulevard, Suite 302,
  Arlington, VA 22201
  telephone: [1] (202) 234-5860
  FAX: [1] (202) 328-0466
  consulate(s) general: Chicago, New York

Luxembourg
  chief of mission: Ambassador Jean-Paul SENNINGER
  chancery: 2200 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 265-4171/72
  FAX: [1] (202) 328-8270
  consulate(s) general: New York, San Francisco

Macau
  none (special administrative region of China)

Macedonia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Zoran JOLEVSKI
  chancery: 2129 Wyoming Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 667-0501
  FAX: [1] (202) 667-2131
  consulate(s) general: New York, Southfield (Michigan); note -
  consulate general in Chicago is due to open in 2008

Madagascar
  chief of mission: Ambassador Jocelyn Bertin RADIFERA
  chancery: 2374 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 265-5525, 5526
  FAX: [1] (202) 265-3034
  consulate(s) general: New York

Malawi
  chief of mission: Ambassador Hawa NDILOWE
  chancery: 1029 Vermont Avenue, Suite 1000, Washington, DC 20005
  telephone: [1] (202) 721-0270
  FAX: [1] (202) 721-0288

Malaysia
  chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires
  Ilango KARUPPANNAN
  chancery: 3516 International Court NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 572-9700
  FAX: [1] (202) 572-9882
  consulate(s) general: Los Angeles, New York

Maldives
  chief of mission: Ambassador Mohamed Hussain MANIKU
  chancery: 800 2nd Avenue, Suite 400E, New York, NY 10017
  telephone: [1] (212) 599-6194
  FAX: [1] (212) 599-6195

Mali
  chief of mission: Ambassador Abdoulaye DIOP
  chancery: 2130 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 332-2249, 939-8950
  FAX: [1] (202) 332-6603

Malta
  chief of mission: Ambassador Mark MICELI-FARRUGIA
  chancery: 2017 Connecticut Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 462-3611, 3612
  FAX: [1] (202) 387-5470
  consulate(s): New York

Marshall Islands
  chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge
  d'Affaires Charles A. PAUL
  chancery: 2433 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 234-5414
  FAX: [1] (202) 232-3236
  consulate(s) general: Honolulu

Mauritania
  chief of mission: Ambassador Ibrahima DIA
  chancery: 2129 Leroy Place NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 232-5700, 5701
  FAX: [1] (202) 319-2623

Mauritius
  chief of mission: Ambassador Keerteecoomar RUHEE
  chancery: 4301 Connecticut Avenue NW, Suite 441, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 244-1491, 1492
  FAX: [1] (202) 966-0983

Mayotte
  none (territorial overseas collectivity of France)

Mexico
  chief of mission: Ambassador Arturo SARUKHAN Casamitjana
  chancery: 1911 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20006
  telephone: [1] (202) 728-1600
  FAX: [1] (202) 728-1698
  consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Austin, Boston, Chicago, Dallas,
  Denver, El Paso, Houston, Laredo (Texas), Los Angeles, Miami, New
  Orleans, New York, Nogales (Arizona), Omaha, Orlando, Phoenix,
  Sacramento, San Antonio, San Diego, San Francisco, San Jose, San
  Juan (Puerto Rico)
  consulate(s): Albuquerque, Brownsville (Texas), Calexico
  (California), Del Rio (Texas), Detroit, Douglas (Arizona), Eagle
  Pass (Texas), Fresno (California), Indianapolis (Indiana), Kansas
  City (Missouri), Laredo (Texas), Las Vegas, Little Rock (Arkansas),
  McAllen (Texas), New Orleans, Omaha, Orlando, Oxnard (California),
  Philadelphia, Portland (Oregon), Presidio (Texas), Raleigh, Saint
  Paul (Minnesota), Salt Lake City, San Bernardino, Santa Ana
  (California), Seattle, Tucson, Yuma (Arizona)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  chief of mission: Ambassador Yosiwo
  GEORGE
  chancery: 1725 N Street NW, Washington, DC 20036
  telephone: [1] (202) 223-4383
  FAX: [1] (202) 223-4391
  consulate(s) general: Honolulu, Tamuning (Guam)

Moldova
  chief of mission: Ambassador Nicolae CHIRTOACA
  chancery: 2101 S Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 667-1130
  FAX: [1] (202) 667-1204

Monaco
  chief of mission: Ambassador to the US and UN Gilles NOGHES
  chancery: 2314 Wyoming Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: (202) 234-1530
  FAX: (202) 552-5778

Mongolia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Khasbazaryn BEKHBAT
  chancery: 2833 M Street NW, Washington, DC 20007
  telephone: [1] (202) 333-7117
  FAX: [1] (202) 298-9227

Montenegro
  chief of mission: Ambassador Miodrag VLAHOVIC
  chancery: 1610 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC, 20009
  telephone: [1] (202) 234-6108
  FAX: [1] (202) 234-6109
  consulate(s) general: New York

Montserrat
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Morocco
  chief of mission: Ambassador Aziz MEKOUAR
  chancery: 1601 21st Street NW, Washington, DC 20009
  telephone: [1] (202) 462-7979
  FAX: [1] (202) 265-0161
  consulate(s) general: New York

Mozambique
  chief of mission: Ambassador Armando Alexandre PANGUENE
  chancery: 1525 New Hampshire Avenue, Washington, DC 20036
  telephone: [1] (202) 293-7146
  FAX: [1] (202) 835-0245

Namibia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Patrick NANDAGO
  chancery: 1605 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009
  telephone: [1] (202) 986-0540
  FAX: [1] (202) 986-0443

Nauru
  chief of mission: Ambassador Marlene I. MOSES
  chancery: 800 2nd Avenue, Suite 400 D, New York, NY 10017
  telephone: [1] (212) 937-0074
  FAX: [1] (212) 937-0079
  consulate(s): Agana (Guam)

Nepal
  chief of mission: Ambassador Suresh Chandra CHALISE
  chancery: 2131 Leroy Place NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 667-4550
  FAX: [1] (202) 667-5534
  consulate(s) general:
  New York:

Netherlands
  chief of mission: Ambassador Regina "Renee" JONES-BOS
  chancery: 4200 Linnean Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 244-5300, [1] 877-388-2443
  FAX: [1] (202) 362-3430
  consulate(s) general: Chicago, Los Angeles, Miami, New York

Netherlands Antilles
  none (represented by the Kingdom of the
  Netherlands); note - Mr. Jeffrey CORRION, Minister Plenipotentiary
  for Aruba at the Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands

New Caledonia
  none (overseas territory of France)

New Zealand
  chief of mission: Ambassador Roy N. FERGUSON
  chancery: 37 Observatory Circle NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 328-4800
  FAX: [1] (202) 667-5227
  consulate(s) general: Los Angeles, New York

Nicaragua
  chief of mission: Ambassador Arturo CRUZ Sequeira, Jr.
  chancery: 1627 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009
  telephone: [1] (202) 939-6570, [1] (202) 939-6573
  FAX: [1] (202) 939-6545
  consulate(s) general: Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, San
  Francisco

Niger
  chief of mission: Ambassador Aminata Djibrilla Maiga TOURE
  chancery: 2204 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 483-4224 through 4227
  FAX: [1] (202)483-3169

Nigeria
  chief of mission: Ambassador Oluwole ROTIMI
  chancery: 3519 International Court NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 986-8400
  FAX: [1] (202) 775-1385
  consulate(s) general: Atlanta, New York

Niue
  none (self-governing territory in free association with New
  Zealand)

Norfolk Island
  none (territory of Australia)

Norway
  chief of mission: Ambassador Wegger C. STROMMEN
  chancery: 2720 34th Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 333-6000
  FAX: [1] (202) 337-0870
  consulate(s) general: Houston, Minneapolis, New York, San Francisco

Oman
  chief of mission: Ambassador Hunaina bint Sultan bin Ahmad
  al-MUGHAIRI
  chancery: 2535 Belmont Road, NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 387-1980
  FAX: [1] (202) 745-4933

Pakistan
  chief of mission: Ambassador Husain HAQQANI
  chancery: 3517 International Court, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 243-6500
  FAX: [1] (202) 686-1544
  consulate(s) general: Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, New
  York, Sunnyvale (California)

Palau
  chief of mission: Ambassador Hersey KYOTA
  chancery: 1700 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Suite 400, Washington, DC
  20006
  telephone: [1] (202) 452-6814
  FAX: [1] (202) 452-6281
  consulate(s) general: Honolulu
  consulate(s): Tamuning (Guam)

Panama
  chief of mission: Ambassador Federico HUMBERT Arias
  chancery: 2862 McGill Terrace NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 483-1407
  FAX: [1] (202) 483-8416
  consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Honolulu, Houston, Miami, New
  Orleans, New York, Philadelphia, San Diego, San Francisco, San Juan
  (Puerto Rico), Tampa

Papua New Guinea
  chief of mission: Ambassador Evan Jeremy PAKI
  chancery: 1779 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Suite 805, Washington, DC
  20036
  telephone: [1] (202) 745-3680
  FAX: [1] (202) 745-3679

Paraguay
  chief of mission: Ambassador James SPALDING Hellmers
  chancery: 2400 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 483-6960 through 6962
  FAX: [1] (202) 234-4508
  consulate(s) general: Los Angeles, Miami, New York

Peru
  chief of mission: Ambassador Felipe ORTIZ de Zevallos
  chancery: 1700 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036
  telephone: [1] (202) 833-9860 through 9869
  FAX: [1] (202) 659-8124
  consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Denver, Hartford,
  Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, Paterson (New Jersey), San
  Francisco, Washington, DC

Philippines
  chief of mission: Ambassador Willy C. GAA
  chancery: 1600 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036
  telephone: [1] (202) 467-9300
  FAX: [1] (202) 467-9417
  consulate(s) general: Chicago, Honolulu, Los Angeles, New York, San
  Francisco, Saipan (Northern Mariana Islands), Tamuning (Guam)

Pitcairn Islands
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Poland
  chief of mission: Ambassador Robert KUPIECKI
  chancery: 2640 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20009
  telephone: [1] (202) 234-3800 through 3802
  FAX: [1] (202) 328-6271
  consulate(s) general: Chicago, Los Angeles, New York

Portugal
  chief of mission: Ambassador Joao DE VALLERA
  chancery: 2012 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036
  telephone: [1] (202) 350-5400
  FAX: [1] (202) 462-3726
  consulate(s) general: Boston, New York, Newark (New Jersey), San
  Francisco
  consulate(s): New Bedford (Massachusetts), Providence (Rhode Island)

Puerto Rico
  none (territory of the US with commonwealth status)

Qatar
  chief of mission: Ambassador Ali Fahad al-Shahwany al-HAJRI
  chancery: 2555 M Street NW, Washington, DC 20037
  telephone: [1] (202) 274-1600 and 274-1603
  FAX: [1] (202) 237-0061
  consulate(s) general: Houston

Romania
  chief of mission: Ambassador Adrian Cosmin VIERITA
  chancery: 1607 23rd Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 332-4846, 4848, 4851, 4852
  FAX: [1] (202) 232-4748
  consulate(s) general: Chicago, Los Angeles, New York

Russia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Yuriy Viktorovich USHAKOV
  chancery: 2650 Wisconsin Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20007
  telephone: [1] (202) 298-5700, 5701, 5704, 5708
  FAX: [1] (202) 298-5735
  consulate(s) general: Houston, New York, San Francisco, Seattle

Rwanda
  chief of mission: Ambassador James KOMONYO
  chancery: 1714 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009
  telephone: [1] (202) 232-2882
  FAX: [1] (202) 232-4544

Saint Barthelemy
  none (overseas collectivity of France)

Saint Helena
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  chief of mission: Ambassador Dr. Izben
  Cordinal WILLIAMS
  chancery: 3216 New Mexico Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20016
  telephone: [1] (202) 686-2636
  FAX: [1] (202) 686-5740
  consulate(s) general: New York

Saint Lucia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Michael LOUIS
  chancery: 3216 New Mexico Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20016
  telephone: [1] (202) 364-6792 through 6795
  FAX: [1] (202) 364-6723
  consulate(s) general: Miami, New York

Saint Martin
  none (overseas collectivity of France)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  none (territorial overseas collectivity of
  France)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  chief of mission: Ambassador La
  Celia A. PRINCE
  chancery: 3216 New Mexico Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20016
  telephone: [1] (202) 364-6730
  FAX: [1] (202) 364-6736
  consulate(s) general: New York

Samoa
  chief of mission: Ambassador Aliioaiga Feturi ELISAIA
  chancery: 800 Second Avenue, Suite 400D, New York, NY 10017
  telephone: [1] (212) 599-6196, 6197
  FAX: [1] (212) 599-0797

San Marino
  chief of mission: Ambassador Paolo RONDELLI
  chancery: 888 27th Street NW, Suite 900, Washington, DC 20006
  telephone: 202-337-2260

Sao Tome and Principe
  chief of mission: First Secretary Domingos
  Augusto FERREIRA
  chancery: 400 Park Avenue, 7th Floor, New York, NY 10022
  telephone: [1] (212) 317-0580
  FAX: [1] (212) 935-7348
  consulate(s): Atlanta

Saudi Arabia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Adil al-Ahmad al-JUBAYR
  chancery: 601 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20037
  telephone: [1] (202) 342-3800
  FAX: [1] (202) 944-3113
  consulate(s) general: Houston, Los Angeles, New York

Senegal
  chief of mission: Ambassador Amadou Lamine BA
  chancery: 2112 Wyoming Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 234-0540
  FAX: [1] (202) 332-6315
  consulate(s) general: Houston, New York

Serbia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Ivan VUJACIC
  chancery: 2134 Kalorama Road NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 332-0333
  FAX: [1] (202) 332-3933
  consulate(s) general: Chicago, New York

Seychelles
  chief of mission: Ambassador Jean Ronald JUMEAU
  chancery: 800 Second Avenue, Suite 400C, New York, NY 10017
  telephone: [1] (212) 972-1785
  FAX: [1] (212) 972-1786

Sierra Leone
  chief of mission: Ambassador Bockari Kortu STEVENS
  chancery: 1701 19th Street NW, Washington, DC 20009
  telephone: [1] (202) 939-9261 through 9263
  FAX: [1] (202) 483-1793

Singapore
  chief of mission: Ambassador CHAN Heng Chee
  chancery: 3501 International Place NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 537-3100
  FAX: [1] (202) 537-0876
  consulate(s) general: San Francisco
  consulate(s): New York

Slovakia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Peter BURIAN
  chancery: 3523 International Court NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 237-1054
  FAX: [1] (202) 237-6438
  consulate(s) general: Los Angeles, New York

Slovenia
  chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires
  Mariam MOZGAN
  chancery: 2410 California Street N.W., Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 386-6601
  FAX: [1] (202) 386-6633
  consulate(s) general: Cleveland, New York

Solomon Islands
  chief of mission: Ambassador Collin David BECK
  chancery: 800 Second Avenue, Suite 400L, New York, NY 10017
  telephone: [1] (212) 599-6192, 6193
  FAX: [1] (212) 661-8925

Somalia
  Somalia does not have an embassy in the US (ceased
  operations on 8 May 1991); note - the TFG is represented in the
  United States through its Permanent Mission to the United Nations

South Africa
  chief of mission: Ambassador Welile Augustine NHLAPO
  chancery: 3051 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 232-4400
  FAX: [1] (202) 265-1607
  consulate(s) general: Chicago, Los Angeles, New York

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  none (overseas
  territory of the UK, also claimed by Argentina)

Spain
  chief of mission: Ambassador Jorge DEZCALLAR de Mazarredo
  chancery: 2375 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20037
  telephone: [1] (202) 452-0100, 728-2340
  FAX: [1] (202) 833-5670
  consulate(s) general: Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami,
  New Orleans, New York, San Francisco, San Juan (Puerto Rico)

Sri Lanka
  chief of mission: Ambassador Jaliya WICKRAMASURIYA
  chancery: 2148 Wyoming Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 483-4025 (through 4028)
  FAX: [1] (202) 232-7181
  consulate(s) general: Los Angeles
  consulate(s): New York

Sudan
  chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires Akec
  KHOC Aciew Khoc
  chancery: 2210 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 338-8565
  FAX: [1] (202) 667-2406

Suriname
  chief of mission: Ambassador Jacques Ruben Constantijn KROSS
  chancery: Suite 460, 4301 Connecticut Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 244-7488
  FAX: [1] (202) 244-5878
  consulate(s) general: Miami

Swaziland
  chief of mission: Ambassador Ephraim Mandla HLOPHE
  chancery: 1712 New Hampshire Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20009
  telephone: [1] (202) 234-5002
  FAX: [1] (202) 234-8254

Sweden
  chief of mission: Ambassador Jonas HAFSTROM
  chancery: 2900 K Street NW, Washington, DC 20007
  telephone: [1] (202) 467-2600
  FAX: [1] (202) 467-2699
  consulate(s) general: Chicago, Los Angeles, New York

Switzerland
  chief of mission: Ambassador Urs ZISWILER
  chancery: 2900 Cathedral Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 745-7900
  FAX: [1] (202) 387-2564
  consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Chicago, Los Angeles, New York, San
  Francisco

Syria
  chief of mission: Ambassador Imad MUSTAFA
  chancery: 2215 Wyoming Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 232-6313
  FAX: [1] (202) 234-9548

Taiwan
  none; unofficial commercial and cultural relations with the
  people of the US are maintained through an unofficial
  instrumentality, the Taipei Economic and Cultural Representative
  Office (TECRO), which has its headquarters in Taipei and in the US
  in Washington, DC; there are also branch offices called Taipei
  Economic and Cultural Office (TECO) in 12 other US cities

Tajikistan
  chief of mission: Ambassador Abdujabbor SHIRINOV
  chancery: 1005 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20037
  telephone: [1] (202) 223-6090
  FAX: [1] (202) 223-6091

Tanzania
  chief of mission: Ambassador Ombeni Yohana SEFUE
  chancery: 2139 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 939-6125
  FAX: [1] (202) 797-7408

Thailand
  chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires
  DAMRONG Kraikruan
  chancery: 1024 Wisconsin Avenue NW, Suite 401, Washington, DC 20007
  telephone: [1] (202) 944-3600
  FAX: [1] (202) 944-3611
  consulate(s) general: Chicago, Los Angeles, New York

Timor-Leste
  chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires
  Jorge CAMEO
  chancery: 4201 Connecticut Avenue NW, Suite 504,Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 966-3202
  FAX: [1] (202) 966-3205
  consulate(s) general: New York

Togo
  chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires
  Lorempo LANDJERGUE
  chancery: 2208 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 234-4212
  FAX: [1] (202) 232-3190

Tokelau
  none (territory of New Zealand)

Tonga
  chief of mission: Ambassador Fekitamoeloa 'UTOIKAMANU
  chancery: 250 East 51st Street, New York, NY 10022
  telephone: [1] (917) 369-1025
  FAX: [1] (917) 369-1024
  consulate(s) general: San Francisco

Trinidad and Tobago
  chief of mission: Ambassador Glenda
  MOREAN-PHILLIP
  chancery: 1708 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036
  telephone: [1] (202) 467-6490
  FAX: [1] (202) 785-3130
  consulate(s) general: Miami, New York

Tunisia
  chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge D'Affaires
  Tarek Ben YOUSSEF
  chancery: 1515 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20005
  telephone: [1] (202) 862-1850
  FAX: [1] (202) 862-1858

Turkey
  chief of mission: Ambassador Nabi SENSOY
  chancery: 2525 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 612-6700
  FAX: [1] (202) 612-6744
  consulate(s) general: Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, New York

Turkmenistan
  chief of mission: Ambassador Meret Bairamovich ORAZOW
  chancery: 2207 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 588-1500
  FAX: [1] (202) 588-0697

Turks and Caicos Islands
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Tuvalu
  Tuvalu does not have an embassy in the US - the country's
  only diplomatic post is in Fiji - Tuvalu does, however, have a UN
  office located at 800 2nd Avenue, Suite 400D, New York, NY 10017,
  telephone: [1] (212) 490-0534

Uganda
  chief of mission: Ambassador Perezi Karukubiro KAMUNANWIRE
  chancery: 5911 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20011
  telephone: [1] (202) 726-7100 through 7102, 0416
  FAX: [1] (202) 726-1727

Ukraine
  chief of mission: Ambassador Oleh V. SHAMSHUR
  chancery: 3350 M Street NW, Washington, DC 20007
  telephone: [1] (202) 333-0606
  FAX: [1] (202) 333-0817
  consulate(s) general: Chicago, New York, San Francisco

United Arab Emirates
  chief of mission: Ambassador Yousef bin Mani
  Saeed al-OTAIBA
  chancery: 3522 International Court NW, Suite 400, Washington, DC
  20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 243-2400
  FAX: [1] (202) 243-2432
  consulate(s): New York, Houston

United Kingdom
  chief of mission: Ambassador Sir Nigel E. SHEINWALD
  chancery: 3100 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 588-6500
  FAX: [1] (202) 588-7870
  consulate(s) general: Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los
  Angeles, Miami, New York, San Francisco
  consulate(s): Denver, Orlando

Uruguay
  chief of mission: Ambassador Carlos Alberto GIANELLI Derois
  chancery: 1913 I Street NW, Washington, DC 20006
  telephone: [1] (202) 331-1313 through 1316
  FAX: [1] (202) 331-8142
  consulate(s) general: Chicago, Los Angeles, Miami, New York,
  Washington, DC
  consulate(s): San Juan (Puerto Rico)

Uzbekistan
  chief of mission: Ambassador Abdulaziz KAMILOV
  chancery: 1746 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036
  telephone: [1] (202) 887-5300
  FAX: [1] (202) 293-6804
  consulate(s) general: New York

Vanuatu
  Vanuatu does not have an embassy in the US; it does,
  however, have a Permanent Mission to the UN

Venezuela
  chief of mission: Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires
  Angelo SANTOS
  chancery: 1099 30th Street NW, Washington, DC 20007
  telephone: [1] (202) 342-2214
  FAX: [1] (202) 342-6820
  consulate(s) general: Boston, Chicago, Houston, Miami, New Orleans,
  New York, San Francisco, San Juan (Puerto Rico)

Vietnam
  chief of mission: Ambassador Le Cong PHUNG
  chancery: 1233 20th Street NW, Suite 400, Washington, DC 20036
  telephone: [1] (202) 861-0737
  FAX: [1] (202) 861-0917
  consulate(s) general: San Francisco

Virgin Islands
  none (territory of the US)

Wallis and Futuna
  none (overseas territory of France)

Western Sahara
  none

Yemen
  chief of mission: Ambassador Abd al-Wahab Abdallah al-HAJRI
  chancery: 2319 Wyoming Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 965-4760
  FAX: [1] (202) 337-2017

Zambia
  chief of mission: Ambassador Inonge MBIKUSITA-LEWANIKA
  chancery: 2419 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008
  telephone: [1] (202) 265-9717 through 9719
  FAX: [1] (202) 332-0826

Zimbabwe
  chief of mission: Ambassador Marina Annette VALERE
  chancery: 1608 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009
  telephone: [1] (202) 332-7100
  FAX: [1] (202) 483-9326

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2150  Telephones - main lines in use


Afghanistan
  280,000 (2005)

Albania
  353,600 (2005)

Algeria
  3.068 million (2007)

American Samoa
  10,400 (2004)

Andorra
  37,200 (2007)

Angola
  98,200 (2006)

Anguilla
  6,200 (2002)

Antarctica
  0; note - information for US bases only (2001)

Antigua and Barbuda
  37,500 (2006)

Argentina
  9.5 million (2007)

Armenia
  603,900 (2006)

Aruba
  38,700 (2006)

Australia
  9.76 million (2007)

Austria
  3.374 million (2007)

Azerbaijan
  1.254 million (2007)

Bahamas, The
  132,900 (2007)

Bahrain
  194,200 (2006)

Bangladesh
  1.187 million (2007)

Barbados
  134,900 (2005)

Belarus
  3.672 million (2007)

Belgium
  4.668 million (2007)

Belize
  33,900 (2007)

Benin
  110,300 (2007)

Bermuda
  57,700 (2006)

Bhutan
  29,900 (2007)

Bolivia
  678,200 (2007)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  1.065 million (2007)

Botswana
  136,900 (2006)

Brazil
  39.4 million (2007)

British Indian Ocean Territory
  NA

British Virgin Islands
  11,700 (2002)

Brunei
  79,200 (2007)

Bulgaria
  2.3 million (2007)

Burkina Faso
  94,800 (2006)

Burma
  503,900 (2005)

Burundi
  35,000 (2006)

Cambodia
  37,500 (2007)

Cameroon
  130,700 (2006)

Canada
  21 million (2006)

Cape Verde
  71,600 (2006)

Cayman Islands
  38,000 (2002)

Central African Republic
  12,000 (2006)

Chad
  13,000 (2006)

Chile
  3.379 million (2007)

China
  365.4 million (2007)

Christmas Island
  NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  287 (1992)

Colombia
  7.936 million (2007)

Comoros
  19,100 (2006)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  9,700 (2006)

Congo, Republic of the
  15,900 (2005)

Cook Islands
  6,200 (2002)

Costa Rica
  1.437 million (2007)

Cote d'Ivoire
  730,000 (2007)

Croatia
  1.825 million (2007)

Cuba
  1.043 million (2007)

Cyprus
  area under government control: 376,000 (2007); area
  administered by Turkish Cypriots: 86,228 (2002)

Czech Republic
  2.888 million (2006)

Denmark
  2.824 million (2007)

Djibouti
  10,800 (2005)

Dominica
  21,000 (2004)

Dominican Republic
  907,000 (2007)

Ecuador
  1.805 million (2007)

Egypt
  11.229 million (2007)

El Salvador
  1.08 million (2007)

Equatorial Guinea
  10,000 (2005)

Eritrea
  37,500 (2006)

Estonia
  495,500 (2007)

Ethiopia
  880,100 (2007)

European Union
  238 million (2005)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  2,400 (2002)

Faroe Islands
  23,000 (2006)

Fiji
  108,400 (2007)

Finland
  1.74 million (2007)

France
  35.533 million; 34.8 million (metropolitan France) (2007)

French Polynesia
  53,600 (2006)

Gabon
  26,500 (2007)

Gambia, The
  76,400 (2007)

Gaza Strip
  350,400 (includes West Bank) (2007)

Georgia
  544,000 (2007)

Germany
  53.75 million (2007)

Ghana
  376,500 (2007)

Gibraltar
  24,512 (2002)

Greece
  6.227 million (2007)

Greenland
  36,000 (2006)

Grenada
  27,700 (2006)

Guam
  65,500 (2003)

Guatemala
  1.355 million (2006)

Guernsey
  45,100 (2005)

Guinea
  26,300 (2005)

Guinea-Bissau
  4,600 (2007)

Guyana
  110,100 (2005)

Haiti
  150,000 (2006)

Holy See (Vatican City)
  5,120 (2005)

Honduras
  713,600 (2006)

Hong Kong
  3.875 million (2007)

Hungary
  3.251 million (2007)

Iceland
  186,700 (2007)

India
  38.76 million (2008)

Indonesia
  17.828 million (2007)

Iran
  23.835 million (2007)

Iraq
  1.547 million (2005)

Ireland
  2.112 million (2007)

Isle of Man
  51,000 (1999)

Israel
  3.005 million (2006)

Italy
  26.89 million (2006)

Jamaica
  342,000 (2006)

Japan
  51.232 million (2007)

Jersey
  73,900 (2001)

Jordan
  585,500 (2007)

Kazakhstan
  3.237 million (2007)

Kenya
  264,800 (2007)

Kiribati
  4,500 (2002)

Korea, North
  1.18 million (2007)

Korea, South
  23.905 million (2007)

Kosovo
  106,300 (2006)

Kuwait
  517,000 (2006)

Kyrgyzstan
  482,100 (2007)

Laos
  94,800 (2007)

Latvia
  644,000 (2007)

Lebanon
  681,400 (2006)

Lesotho
  53,100 (2006)

Liberia
  6,900 (2002)

Libya
  852,300 (2005)

Liechtenstein
  20,000 (2005)

Lithuania
  799,400 (2007)

Luxembourg
  248,200 (2007)

Macau
  177,851 (2008)

Macedonia
  463,600 (2007)

Madagascar
  133,900 (2007)

Malawi
  175,200 (2007)

Malaysia
  4.35 million (2007)

Maldives
  33,200 (2007)

Mali
  85,000 (2007)

Malta
  198,100 (2007)

Marshall Islands
  4,500 (2004)

Mauritania
  34,900 (2006)

Mauritius
  357,300 (2006)

Mayotte
  10,000 (2002)

Mexico
  19.754 million (2007)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  8,700 (2007)

Moldova
  1.08 million (2007)

Monaco
  34,000 (2005)

Mongolia
  158,900 (2006)

Montenegro
  353,300 (2006)

Montserrat
  NA

Morocco
  2.394 million (2007)

Mozambique
  67,000 (2006)

Namibia
  138,100 (2007)

Nauru
  1,900 (2002)

Nepal
  766,400 (2007)

Netherlands
  7.334 million (2007)

Netherlands Antilles
  81,000 (2001)

New Caledonia
  60,200 (2007)

New Zealand
  1.706 million (2007)

Nicaragua
  247,900 (2006)

Niger
  24,000 (2005)

Nigeria
  1.58 million (2007)

Niue
  1,100 (2002 est.)

Norfolk Island
  2,532; note - a mix of analog (2500) and digital (32)
  circuits (2004)

Northern Mariana Islands
  21,000 (2000)

Norway
  1.988 million (2007)

Oman
  268,100 (2007)

Pakistan
  4.546 million (2008)

Palau
  6,700 (2002)

Panama
  491,900 (2007)

Papua New Guinea
  60,000 (2007)

Paraguay
  453,800 (2007)

Peru
  2.673 million (2007)

Philippines
  3.633 million (2006)

Pitcairn Islands
  1 (there are 17 telephones on one party line);
  (2004)

Poland
  10.336 million (2007)

Portugal
  4.139 million (2007)

Puerto Rico
  1.038 million (2005)

Qatar
  237,400 (2007)

Romania
  4.3 million (2007)

Russia
  43.9 million (2006)

Rwanda
  23,100 (2007)

Saint Helena
  2,200 (2002)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  25,000 (2004)

Saint Lucia
  51,100 (2002)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  4,800 (2002)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  22,800 (2007)

Samoa
  19,500 (2005)

San Marino
  21,000 (2006)

Sao Tome and Principe
  7,700 (2007)

Saudi Arabia
  3.996 million (2007)

Senegal
  269,100 (2007)

Serbia
  2.993 million (2007)

Seychelles
  22,700 (2007)

Sierra Leone
  24,000 (2002)

Singapore
  1.859 million (2007)

Slovakia
  1.151 million (2007)

Slovenia
  857,100 (2007)

Solomon Islands
  7,600 (2006)

Somalia
  100,000 (2007)

South Africa
  4.642 million (2007)

Spain
  18.583 million (2007)

Sri Lanka
  2.742 million (2007)

Sudan
  345,200 (2007)

Suriname
  81,500 (2006)

Svalbard
  NA

Swaziland
  44,000 (2006)

Sweden
  5.506 million (2007)

Switzerland
  5 million (2007)

Syria
  3.452 million (2007)

Taiwan
  14.313 million (2007)

Tajikistan
  280,200 (2005)

Tanzania
  165,013 (2008)

Thailand
  7.024 million (2007)

Timor-Leste
  2,400 (2006)

Togo
  82,100 (2006)

Tokelau
  300 (2002)

Tonga
  21,000 (2007)

Trinidad and Tobago
  323,800 (2007)

Tunisia
  1.273 million (2007)

Turkey
  18.413 million (2007)

Turkmenistan
  398,100 (2005)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  5,700 (2002)

Tuvalu
  900 (2005)

Uganda
  162,300 (2007)

Ukraine
  12.858 million (2007)

United Arab Emirates
  1.385 million (2007)

United Kingdom
  33.682 million (2007)

United States
  163.2 million (2007)

Uruguay
  965,200 (2007)

Uzbekistan
  1.793 million (2005)

Vanuatu
  8,800 (2007)

Venezuela
  5.082 million (2007)

Vietnam
  10.8 million (2007)

Virgin Islands
  71,700 (2005)

Wallis and Futuna
  1,900 (2002)

West Bank
  350,400 (includes Gaza Strip) (2007)

Western Sahara
  about 2,000 (1999 est.)

World
  1,263,367,600 (2005)

Yemen
  968,300 (2006)

Zambia
  91,800 (2007)

Zimbabwe
  344,500 (2007)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2151  Telephones - mobile cellular


Afghanistan
  5.4 million (2008)

Albania
  2.3 million (2007)

Algeria
  27.563 million (2007)

American Samoa
  2,200 (2004)

Andorra
  68,500 (2007)

Angola
  3.307 million (2007)

Anguilla
  1,800 (2002)

Antigua and Barbuda
  110,200 (2006)

Argentina
  40.402 million (2007)

Armenia
  1,185,400 (2006)

Aruba
  105,700 (2006)

Australia
  21.26 million (2007)

Austria
  9.768 million (2007)

Azerbaijan
  4.3 million (2007)

Bahamas, The
  374,000 (2007)

Bahrain
  1.116 million (2007)

Bangladesh
  34.37 million (2007)

Barbados
  237,100 (2006)

Belarus
  5.96 million (2006)

Belgium
  10.23 million (2007)

Belize
  118,300 (2007)

Benin
  1.895 million (2007)

Bermuda
  60,100 (2006)

Bhutan
  149,400 (2007)

Bolivia
  3.254 million (2007)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  2.45 million (2007)

Botswana
  1.427 million (2007)

Brazil
  120.98 million (2007)

British Virgin Islands
  8,000 (2002)

Brunei
  339,800 (2007)

Bulgaria
  9.897 million (2007)

Burkina Faso
  1.611 million (2007)

Burma
  214,200 (2006)

Burundi
  250,000 (2007)

Cambodia
  2.583 million (2007)

Cameroon
  4.536 million (2007)

Canada
  18.749 million (2006)

Cape Verde
  148,000 (2007)

Cayman Islands
  33,800 (2004)

Central African Republic
  130,000 (2007)

Chad
  918,400 (2007)

Chile
  13.955 million (2007)

China
  547.286 million (2007)

Colombia
  33.941 million (2007)

Comoros
  40,000 (2007)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  6.592 million (2007)

Congo, Republic of the
  1.334 million (2007)

Cook Islands
  1,500 (2002)

Costa Rica
  1.503 million (2007)

Cote d'Ivoire
  7.05 million (2007)

Croatia
  5.035 million (2007)

Cuba
  198,300 (2007)

Cyprus
  area under government control: 962,200 (2007); area
  administered by Turkish Cypriots: 147,522 (2002)

Czech Republic
  13.075 million (2007)

Denmark
  6.243 million (2007)

Djibouti
  45,000 (2007)

Dominica
  41,800 (2004)

Dominican Republic
  5.513 million (2007)

Ecuador
  10.086 million (2007)

Egypt
  30.065 million (2007)

El Salvador
  6.137 million (2007)

Equatorial Guinea
  220,000 (2007)

Eritrea
  70,000 (2007)

Estonia
  1.982 million (2007)

Ethiopia
  1.208 million (2007)

European Union
  466 million (2005)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  0 (2001)

Faroe Islands
  50,000 (2006)

Fiji
  437,000 (2007)

Finland
  6.08 million (2007)

France
  56.719 million; 55.358 million (metropolitan France) (2007)

French Polynesia
  174,800 (2007)

Gabon
  1.169 million (2007)

Gambia, The
  795,900 (2007)

Gaza Strip
  1.026 million (includes West Bank) (2007)

Georgia
  2.4 million (2007)

Germany
  97.151 million (2007)

Ghana
  7.604 million (2007)

Gibraltar
  9,797 (2002)

Greece
  11.997 million (2007)

Greenland
  66,400 (2007)

Grenada
  46,200 (2006)

Guam
  98,000 (2004)

Guatemala
  10.15 million (2007)

Guernsey
  43,800 (2004)

Guinea
  189,000 (2005)

Guinea-Bissau
  296,200 (2007)

Guyana
  281,400 (2005)

Haiti
  2.2 million (2007)

Honduras
  2.241 million (2006)

Hong Kong
  10.55 million (2007)

Hungary
  11.03 million (2007)

Iceland
  347,500 (2007)

India
  296.08 million (2008)

Indonesia
  81.835 million (2007)

Iran
  29.77 million (2007)

Iraq
  14.021 million (2007)

Ireland
  4.94 million (2007)

Israel
  8.902 million (2007)

Italy
  78.571 million (2006)

Jamaica
  2.495 million (2006)

Japan
  107.339 million (2007)

Jersey
  83,900 (2004)

Jordan
  4.771 million (2007)

Kazakhstan
  12.588 million (2007)

Kenya
  11.44 million (2007)

Kiribati
  700 (2005)

Korea, South
  43.5 million (2007)

Kosovo
  562,000 (2006)

Kuwait
  2.774 million (2007)

Kyrgyzstan
  2.152 million (2007)

Laos
  1.478 million (2007)

Latvia
  2.217 million (2007)

Lebanon
  1.26 million (2007)

Lesotho
  456,000 (2007)

Liberia
  563,000 (2007)

Libya
  4.5 million (2007)

Liechtenstein
  27,500 (2005)

Lithuania
  4.912 million (2007)

Luxembourg
  604,200 (2007)

Macau
  856,200 (2008)

Macedonia
  1.518 million (2007)

Madagascar
  2.218 million (2007)

Malawi
  1.051 million (2007)

Malaysia
  23.347 million (2007)

Maldives
  317,800 (2007)

Mali
  2.483 million (2007)

Malta
  371,500 (2007)

Marshall Islands
  700 (2005)

Mauritania
  1.3 million (2007)

Mauritius
  936,000 (2007)

Mayotte
  48,100 (2005)

Mexico
  68.254 million (2007)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  27,400 (2007)

Moldova
  1.883 million (2007)

Monaco
  17,200 (2005)

Mongolia
  775,300 (2006)

Montenegro
  643,700 (2006)

Montserrat
  NA

Morocco
  20.029 million (2007)

Mozambique
  3.3 million (2007)

Namibia
  800,300 (2007)

Nauru
  1,500 (2002)

Nepal
  1.157 million (2006)

Netherlands
  17.3 million (2006)

Netherlands Antilles
  200,000 (2004)

New Caledonia
  176,400 (2007)

New Zealand
  4.245 million (2007)

Nicaragua
  2.123 million (2007)

Niger
  900,000 (2007)

Nigeria
  40.395 million (2007)

Niue
  400 (2002)

Norfolk Island
  0; note - proposed cellular service disallowed in
  August 2002 island referendum (2002)

Northern Mariana Islands
  20,500 (2004)

Norway
  5.192 million (2007)

Oman
  2.5 million (2007)

Pakistan
  88.02 million (2008)

Palau
  1,000 (2002)

Panama
  2.392 million (2007)

Papua New Guinea
  300,000 (2007)

Paraguay
  4.33 million (2007)

Peru
  15.417 million (2007)

Philippines
  51.795 million (2007)

Poland
  41.389 million (2007)

Portugal
  13.413 million (2007)

Puerto Rico
  3.354 million (2005)

Qatar
  1.264 million (2007)

Romania
  22.875 million (2007)

Russia
  170 million (2007)

Rwanda
  635,100 (2007)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  10,000 (2004)

Saint Lucia
  105,700 (2005)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  104,000 (2007)

Samoa
  86,000 (2007)

San Marino
  17,390 (2006)

Sao Tome and Principe
  30,100 (2007)

Saudi Arabia
  28.381 million (2007)

Senegal
  4.123 million (2007)

Serbia
  8.453 million (2007)

Seychelles
  77,300 (2007)

Sierra Leone
  776,000 (2007)

Singapore
  5.619 million (2007)

Slovakia
  6.068 million (2007)

Slovenia
  1.928 million (2007)

Solomon Islands
  10,900 (2007)

Somalia
  600,000 (2007)

South Africa
  42.3 million (2007)

Spain
  48.813 million (2007)

Sri Lanka
  7.983 million (2007)

Sudan
  7.464 million (2007)

Suriname
  320,000 (2006)

Swaziland
  380,000 (2007)

Sweden
  10.371 million (2007)

Switzerland
  8.096 million (2007)

Syria
  6.7 million (2007)

Taiwan
  24.302 million (2007)

Tajikistan
  265,000 (2005)

Tanzania
  9.358 million (2008)

Thailand
  51.377 million (2007)

Timor-Leste
  69,000 (2007)

Togo
  1.19 million (2007)

Tonga
  46,500 (2007)

Trinidad and Tobago
  1.008 million (2007)

Tunisia
  7.842 million (2007)

Turkey
  61.976 million (2007)

Turkmenistan
  216,900 (2006)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  1,700 (1999)

Tuvalu
  1,300 (2005)

Uganda
  4.195 million (2007)

Ukraine
  55.24 million (2007)

United Arab Emirates
  7.595 million (2007)

United Kingdom
  71.992 million (2007)

United States
  255 million (2007)

Uruguay
  3.004 million (2007)

Uzbekistan
  5.8 million (2007)

Vanuatu
  26,000 (2007)

Venezuela
  23.82 million (2007)

Vietnam
  33.2 million (2007)

Virgin Islands
  80,300 (2005)

Wallis and Futuna
  NA

West Bank
  1.026 million (includes Gaza Strip) (2007)

Western Sahara
  0 (1999)

World
  2,168,433,600 (2005)

Yemen
  2.978 million (2006)

Zambia
  2.639 million (2007)

Zimbabwe
  1.226 million (2007)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2153  Internet users


Afghanistan
  580,000 (2007)

Albania
  471,200 (2006)

Algeria
  3.5 million (2007)

American Samoa
  NA

Andorra
  58,900 (2007)

Angola
  100,000 (2007)

Anguilla
  3,000 (2002)

Antigua and Barbuda
  60,000 (2007)

Argentina
  9.309 million (2007)

Armenia
  172,800 (2006)

Aruba
  24,000 (2007)

Australia
  11.24 million (2007)

Austria
  4.277 million (2007)

Azerbaijan
  1.036 million (2007)

Bahamas, The
  120,000 (2007)

Bahrain
  250,000 (2007)

Bangladesh
  500,000 (2007)

Barbados
  160,000 (2005)

Belarus
  6 million (2007)

Belgium
  5.22 million (2007)

Belize
  32,000 (2007)

Benin
  150,000 (2007)

Bermuda
  48,000 (2007)

Bhutan
  40,000 (2007)

Bolivia
  1 million (2007)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  1.055 million (2007)

Botswana
  80,000 (2007)

Brazil
  50 million (2007)

British Virgin Islands
  4,000 (2002)

Brunei
  199,532 (2007)

Bulgaria
  1.899 million (2007)

Burkina Faso
  80,000 (2006)

Burma
  40,000 (2007)

Burundi
  60,000 (2006)

Cambodia
  70,000 (2007)

Cameroon
  370,000 (2006)

Canada
  28 million (2007)

Cape Verde
  37,000 (2007)

Cayman Islands
  22,000 (2007)

Central African Republic
  13,000 (2006)

Chad
  60,000 (2006)

Chile
  5.57 million (2007)

China
  253 million (2008)

Christmas Island
  464 (2001)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  NA

Colombia
  12.1 million (2007)

Comoros
  21,000 (2006)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  230,400 (2007)

Congo, Republic of the
  70,000 (2006)

Cook Islands
  3,600 (2002)

Costa Rica
  1.5 million (2007)

Cote d'Ivoire
  300,000 (2006)

Croatia
  1.995 million (2007)

Cuba
  1.31 million
  note: private citizens are prohibited from buying computers or
  accessing the Internet without special authorization; foreigners may
  access the Internet in large hotels but are subject to firewalls;
  some Cubans buy illegal passwords on the black market or take
  advantage of public outlets to access limited email and the
  government-controlled "intranet" (2007)

Cyprus
  380,000 (2007)

Czech Republic
  4.4 million (2007)

Denmark
  3.5 million (2007)

Djibouti
  11,000 (2006)

Dominica
  26,500 (2006)

Dominican Republic
  1.677 million (2007)

Ecuador
  1.549 million (2006)

Egypt
  8.62 million (2007)

El Salvador
  700,000 (2006)

Equatorial Guinea
  8,000 (2006)

Eritrea
  120,000 (2007)

Estonia
  780,000 (2007)

Ethiopia
  291,000 (2007)

European Union
  247 million (2006)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  1,900 (2002)

Faroe Islands
  34,000 (2006)

Fiji
  80,000 (2006)

Finland
  3.6 million (2007)

France
  31.295 million; 30.838 million (metropolitan France) (2007)

French Polynesia
  75,000 (2007)

Gabon
  145,000 (2007)

Gambia, The
  100,200 (2007)

Gaza Strip
  355,500 (includes West Bank) (2007)

Georgia
  360,000 (2007)

Germany
  42.5 million (2007)

Ghana
  650,000 (2007)

Gibraltar
  6,200 (2002)

Greece
  2.54 million (2007)

Greenland
  52,000 (2007)

Grenada
  23,000 (2007)

Guam
  65,000 (2005)

Guatemala
  1.32 million (2006)

Guernsey
  36,000 (2005)

Guinea
  50,000 (2006)

Guinea-Bissau
  37,000 (2006)

Guyana
  190,000 (2007)

Haiti
  1 million (2007)

Holy See (Vatican City)
  93 (2000)

Honduras
  344,100 (2006)

Hong Kong
  3.961 million (2007)

Hungary
  4.2 million (2007)

Iceland
  202,300 (2007)

India
  80 million (2007)

Indonesia
  13 million (2007)

Iran
  23 million (2007)

Iraq
  54,000 (2007)

Ireland
  1.708 million (2007)

Isle of Man
  NA

Israel
  2 million (2007)

Italy
  32 million (2007)

Jamaica
  1.5 million (2007)

Japan
  88.11 million (2007)

Jersey
  27,000 (2005)

Jordan
  1.127 million (2007)

Kazakhstan
  1.901 million (2006)

Kenya
  3 million (2007)

Kiribati
  2,000 (2007)

Korea, North
  NA

Korea, South
  35.59 million (2007)

Kuwait
  900,000 (2007)

Kyrgyzstan
  750,000 (2007)

Laos
  100,000 (2007)

Latvia
  1.177 million (2007)

Lebanon
  950,000 (2006)

Lesotho
  70,000 (2007)

Liberia
  1,000 (2002)

Libya
  260,000 (2006)

Liechtenstein
  22,000 (2006)

Lithuania
  1.333 million (2007)

Luxembourg
  345,000 (2007)

Macau
  300,000 (2007)

Macedonia
  685,000 (2007)

Madagascar
  110,000 (2006)

Malawi
  139,500 (2007)

Malaysia
  15.868 million (2007)

Maldives
  33,000 (2007)

Mali
  100,000 (2007)

Malta
  158,000 (2007)

Marshall Islands
  2,200 (2006)

Mauritania
  30,000 (2006)

Mauritius
  340,000 (2007)

Mayotte
  NA

Mexico
  22.812 million (2007)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  15,000 (2007)

Moldova
  700,000 (2007)

Monaco
  20,000 (2006)

Mongolia
  320,000 (2007)

Montenegro
  280,000 (2007)

Montserrat
  NA

Morocco
  7.3 million (2007)

Mozambique
  200,000 (2007)

Namibia
  101,000 (2007)

Nauru
  300 (2002)

Nepal
  337,100 (2007)

Netherlands
  15 million (2007)

Netherlands Antilles
  2,000 (2000)

New Caledonia
  80,000 (2006)

New Zealand
  3.36 million (2007)

Nicaragua
  155,000 (2006)

Niger
  40,000 (2006)

Nigeria
  10 million (2007)

Niue
  900 (2002)

Norfolk Island
  700 (2002 est.)

Northern Mariana Islands
  10,000 (2003)

Norway
  3.8 million (2007)

Oman
  340,000 (2007)

Pakistan
  17.5 million (2007)

Panama
  525,200 (2007)

Papua New Guinea
  110,000 (2006)

Paraguay
  280,000 (2007)

Peru
  7.636 million (2007)

Philippines
  5.3 million (2007)

Pitcairn Islands
  NA

Poland
  16 million (2007)

Portugal
  3.549 million (2007)

Puerto Rico
  1 million (2007)

Qatar
  351,000 (2007)

Romania
  12 million (2007)

Russia
  30 million (2007)

Rwanda
  100,000 (2007)

Saint Helena
  1,000; note - includes Ascension Island (2003)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  10,000 (2002)

Saint Lucia
  110,000 (2007)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  NA

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  57,000 (2007)

Samoa
  8,000 (2006)

San Marino
  15,400 (2006)

Sao Tome and Principe
  23,000 (2007)

Saudi Arabia
  6.2 million (2007)

Senegal
  820,000 (2007)

Serbia
  1.5 million (2007)

Seychelles
  32,000 (2007)

Sierra Leone
  13,000 (2007)

Singapore
  3.105 million (2007)

Slovakia
  2.35 million (2007)

Slovenia
  1.3 million (2007)

Solomon Islands
  8,000 (2006)

Somalia
  98,000 (2007)

South Africa
  5.1 million (2005)

Spain
  19.69 million (2007)

Sri Lanka
  771,700 (2007)

Sudan
  1.5 million (2007)

Suriname
  44,000 (2007)

Svalbard
  NA

Swaziland
  42,000 (2006)

Sweden
  7 million (2007)

Switzerland
  4.61 million (2007)

Syria
  3.47 million (2007)

Taiwan
  14.76 million (2007)

Tajikistan
  19,500 (2005)

Tanzania
  400,000 (2007)

Thailand
  13.416 million (2007)

Timor-Leste
  1,200 (2006)

Togo
  320,000 (2006)

Tokelau
  NA

Tonga
  8,400 (2007)

Trinidad and Tobago
  430,800 (2007)

Tunisia
  1.722 million (2007)

Turkey
  13.15 million (2006)

Turkmenistan
  70,000 (2007)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  NA

Tuvalu
  1,300 (2002)

Uganda
  2 million (2007)

Ukraine
  10 million (2007)

United Arab Emirates
  2.3 million (2007)

United Kingdom
  40.2 million (2007)

United States
  223 million (2008)

Uruguay
  968,000 (2007)

Uzbekistan
  1.2 million (2007)

Vanuatu
  17,000 (2007)

Venezuela
  5.72 million (2007)

Vietnam
  17.87 million (2007)

Virgin Islands
  30,000 (2007)

Wallis and Futuna
  900 (2002)

West Bank
  355,500 (includes Gaza Strip) (2007)

Western Sahara
  NA

World
  1,018,057,389 (2005)

Yemen
  320,000 (2007)

Zambia
  500,000 (2007)

Zimbabwe
  1.351 million (2007)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2154  Internet country code


Afghanistan
  .af

Albania
  .al

Algeria
  .dz

American Samoa
  .as

Andorra
  .ad

Angola
  .ao

Anguilla
  .ai

Antarctica
  .aq

Antigua and Barbuda
  .ag

Argentina
  .ar

Armenia
  .am

Aruba
  .aw

Australia
  .au

Austria
  .at

Azerbaijan
  .az

Bahamas, The
  .bs

Bahrain
  .bh

Bangladesh
  .bd

Barbados
  .bb

Belarus
  .by

Belgium
  .be

Belize
  .bz

Benin
  .bj

Bermuda
  .bm

Bhutan
  .bt

Bolivia
  .bo

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  .ba

Botswana
  .bw

Bouvet Island
  .bv

Brazil
  .br

British Indian Ocean Territory
  .io

British Virgin Islands
  .vg

Brunei
  .bn

Bulgaria
  .bg

Burkina Faso
  .bf

Burma
  .mm

Burundi
  .bi

Cambodia
  .kh

Cameroon
  .cm

Canada
  .ca

Cape Verde
  .cv

Cayman Islands
  .ky

Central African Republic
  .cf

Chad
  .td

Chile
  .cl

China
  .cn

Christmas Island
  .cx

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  .cc

Colombia
  .co

Comoros
  .km

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  .cd

Congo, Republic of the
  .cg

Cook Islands
  .ck

Costa Rica
  .cr

Cote d'Ivoire
  .ci

Croatia
  .hr

Cuba
  .cu

Cyprus
  .cy

Czech Republic
  .cz

Denmark
  .dk

Djibouti
  .dj

Dominica
  .dm

Dominican Republic
  .do

Ecuador
  .ec

Egypt
  .eg

El Salvador
  .sv

Equatorial Guinea
  .gq

Eritrea
  .er

Estonia
  .ee

Ethiopia
  .et

European Union
  .eu (effective 2005); note - see country entries of
  member states for individual country codes

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  .fk

Faroe Islands
  .fo

Fiji
  .fj

Finland
  .fi; note - Aland Islands assigned .ax

France
  metropolitan France - .fr; French Guiana - .gf; Guadeloupe -
  .gp; Martinique - .mq; Reunion - .re

French Polynesia
  .pf

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  .tf

Gabon
  .ga

Gambia, The
  .gm

Gaza Strip
  .ps; note - same as West Bank

Georgia
  .ge

Germany
  .de

Ghana
  .gh

Gibraltar
  .gi

Greece
  .gr

Greenland
  .gl

Grenada
  .gd

Guam
  .gu

Guatemala
  .gt

Guernsey
  .gg

Guinea
  .gn

Guinea-Bissau
  .gw

Guyana
  .gy

Haiti
  .ht

Heard Island and McDonald Islands
  .hm

Holy See (Vatican City)
  .va

Honduras
  .hn

Hong Kong
  .hk

Hungary
  .hu

Iceland
  .is

India
  .in

Indonesia
  .id

Iran
  .ir

Iraq
  .iq

Ireland
  .ie

Isle of Man
  .im

Israel
  .il

Italy
  .it

Jamaica
  .jm

Japan
  .jp

Jersey
  .je

Jordan
  .jo

Kazakhstan
  .kz

Kenya
  .ke

Kiribati
  .ki

Korea, North
  .kp

Korea, South
  .kr

Kuwait
  .kw

Kyrgyzstan
  .kg

Laos
  .la

Latvia
  .lv

Lebanon
  .lb

Lesotho
  .ls

Liberia
  .lr

Libya
  .ly

Liechtenstein
  .li

Lithuania
  .lt

Luxembourg
  .lu

Macau
  .mo

Macedonia
  .mk

Madagascar
  .mg

Malawi
  .mw

Malaysia
  .my

Maldives
  .mv

Mali
  .ml

Malta
  .mt

Marshall Islands
  .mh

Mauritania
  .mr

Mauritius
  .mu

Mayotte
  .yt

Mexico
  .mx

Micronesia, Federated States of
  .fm

Moldova
  .md

Monaco
  .mc

Mongolia
  .mn

Montenegro
  .me

Montserrat
  .ms

Morocco
  .ma

Mozambique
  .mz

Namibia
  .na

Nauru
  .nr

Nepal
  .np

Netherlands
  .nl

Netherlands Antilles
  .an

New Caledonia
  .nc

New Zealand
  .nz

Nicaragua
  .ni

Niger
  .ne

Nigeria
  .ng

Niue
  .nu

Norfolk Island
  .nf

Northern Mariana Islands
  .mp

Norway
  .no

Oman
  .om

Pakistan
  .pk

Palau
  .pw

Panama
  .pa

Papua New Guinea
  .pg

Paraguay
  .py

Peru
  .pe

Philippines
  .ph

Pitcairn Islands
  .pn

Poland
  .pl

Portugal
  .pt

Puerto Rico
  .pr

Qatar
  .qa

Romania
  .ro

Russia
  .ru; note - Russia also has responsibility for a legacy
  domain ".su" that was allocated to the Soviet Union and is being
  phased out

Rwanda
  .rw

Saint Barthelemy
  .bl; note - .gp, the ccTLD for Guadeloupe, and .fr,
  the ccTLD for France, might also be encountered

Saint Helena
  .sh; note - Ascension Island assigned .ac

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  .kn

Saint Lucia
  .lc

Saint Martin
  .mf; note - .gp, the ccTLD for Guadeloupe, and .fr, the
  ccTLD for France, might also be encountered

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  .pm

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  .vc

Samoa
  .ws

San Marino
  .sm

Sao Tome and Principe
  .st

Saudi Arabia
  .sa

Senegal
  .sn

Serbia
  .rs

Seychelles
  .sc

Sierra Leone
  .sl

Singapore
  .sg

Slovakia
  .sk

Slovenia
  .si

Solomon Islands
  .sb

Somalia
  .so

South Africa
  .za

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  .gs

Spain
  .es

Sri Lanka
  .lk

Sudan
  .sd

Suriname
  .sr

Svalbard
  .sj

Swaziland
  .sz

Sweden
  .se

Switzerland
  .ch

Syria
  .sy

Taiwan
  .tw

Tajikistan
  .tj

Tanzania
  .tz

Thailand
  .th

Timor-Leste
  .tl

Togo
  .tg

Tokelau
  .tk

Tonga
  .to

Trinidad and Tobago
  .tt

Tunisia
  .tn

Turkey
  .tr

Turkmenistan
  .tm

Turks and Caicos Islands
  .tc

Tuvalu
  .tv

Uganda
  .ug

Ukraine
  .ua

United Arab Emirates
  .ae

United Kingdom
  .uk

United States
  .us

Uruguay
  .uy

Uzbekistan
  .uz

Vanuatu
  .vu

Venezuela
  .ve

Vietnam
  .vn

Virgin Islands
  .vi

Wallis and Futuna
  .wf

West Bank
  .ps; note - same as Gaza Strip

Western Sahara
  .eh

Yemen
  .ye

Zambia
  .zm

Zimbabwe
  .zw

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2155  HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate (%)


Afghanistan
  0.01% (2001 est.)

Albania
  NA

Algeria
  0.1%; note - no country specific models provided (2001 est.)

American Samoa
  NA

Andorra
  NA

Angola
  3.9% (2003 est.)

Anguilla
  NA

Antigua and Barbuda
  NA

Argentina
  0.7% (2001 est.)

Armenia
  0.1% (2003 est.)

Aruba
  NA

Australia
  0.1% (2003 est.)

Austria
  0.3% (2003 est.)

Azerbaijan
  less than 0.1% (2003 est.)

Bahamas, The
  3% (2003 est.)

Bahrain
  0.2% (2001 est.)

Bangladesh
  less than 0.1% (2001 est.)

Barbados
  1.5% (2003 est.)

Belarus
  0.3% (2001 est.)

Belgium
  0.2% (2003 est.)

Belize
  2.4% (2003 est.)

Benin
  1.9% (2003 est.)

Bermuda
  0.297% (2005)

Bhutan
  less than 0.1% (2001 est.)

Bolivia
  0.1% (2003 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  less than 0.1% (2001 est.)

Botswana
  37.3% (2003 est.)

Brazil
  0.7% (2003 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  NA

Brunei
  less than 0.1% (2003 est.)

Bulgaria
  less than 0.1% (2001 est.)

Burkina Faso
  4.2% (2003 est.)

Burma
  1.2% (2003 est.)

Burundi
  6% (2003 est.)

Cambodia
  2.6% (2003 est.)

Cameroon
  6.9% (2003 est.)

Canada
  0.3% (2003 est.)

Cape Verde
  0.035% (2001 est.)

Cayman Islands
  NA

Central African Republic
  13.5% (2003 est.)

Chad
  4.8% (2003 est.)

Chile
  0.3% (2003 est.)

China
  0.1% (2003 est.)

Christmas Island
  NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  NA

Colombia
  0.7% (2003 est.)

Comoros
  0.12% (2001 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  4.2% (2003 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  4.9% (2003 est.)

Cook Islands
  NA

Costa Rica
  0.6% (2003 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  7% (2003 est.)

Croatia
  less than 0.1% (2001 est.)

Cuba
  less than 0.1% (2003 est.)

Cyprus
  0.1% (2003 est.)

Czech Republic
  less than 0.1% (2001 est.)

Denmark
  0.2% (2003 est.)

Djibouti
  2.9% (2003 est.)

Dominica
  NA

Dominican Republic
  1.7% (2003 est.)

Ecuador
  0.3% (2003 est.)

Egypt
  less than 0.1% (2001 est.)

El Salvador
  0.7% (2003 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  3.4% (2001 est.)

Eritrea
  2.7% (2003 est.)

Estonia
  1.1% (2001 est.)

Ethiopia
  4.4% (2003 est.)

European Union
  note - see individual country entries of member states

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  NA

Faroe Islands
  NA

Fiji
  0.1% (2003 est.)

Finland
  less than 0.1% (2003 est.)

France
  0.4% (2003 est.)

French Polynesia
  NA

Gabon
  8.1% (2003 est.)

Gambia, The
  1.2% (2003 est.)

Gaza Strip
  NA

Georgia
  less than 0.1% (2001 est.)

Germany
  0.1% (2001 est.)

Ghana
  3.1% (2003 est.)

Gibraltar
  NA

Greece
  0.2% (2001 est.)

Greenland
  NA

Grenada
  NA

Guam
  NA

Guatemala
  1.1% (2003 est.)

Guernsey
  NA

Guinea
  3.2% (2003 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  10% (2003 est.)

Guyana
  2.5% (2003 est.)

Haiti
  5.6% (2003 est.)

Holy See (Vatican City)
  NA

Honduras
  1.8% (2003 est.)

Hong Kong
  0.1% (2003 est.)

Hungary
  0.1% (2001 est.)

Iceland
  0.2% (2001 est.)

India
  0.9% (2001 est.)

Indonesia
  0.1% (2003 est.)

Iran
  0.2% (2005 est.)

Iraq
  less than 0.1% (2001 est.)

Ireland
  0.1% (2001 est.)

Isle of Man
  NA

Israel
  0.1% (2001 est.)

Italy
  0.5% (2001 est.)

Jamaica
  1.2% (2003 est.)

Japan
  less than 0.1% (2003 est.)

Jersey
  NA

Jordan
  less than 0.1% (2001 est.)

Kazakhstan
  0.2% (2001 est.)

Kenya
  6.7% (2003 est.)

Kiribati
  NA

Korea, North
  NA

Korea, South
  less than 0.1% (2003 est.)

Kuwait
  0.12% (2001 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  less than 0.1% (2001 est.)

Laos
  0.1% (2003 est.)

Latvia
  0.6% (2001 est.)

Lebanon
  0.1% (2001 est.)

Lesotho
  28.9% (2003 est.)

Liberia
  5.9% (2003 est.)

Libya
  0.3% (2001 est.)

Liechtenstein
  NA

Lithuania
  0.1% (2001 est.)

Luxembourg
  0.2% (2001 est.)

Macau
  NA

Macedonia
  less than 0.1% (2001 est.)

Madagascar
  1.7% (2003 est.)

Malawi
  14.2% (2003 est.)

Malaysia
  0.4% (2003 est.)

Maldives
  0.1% (2001 est.)

Mali
  1.9% (2003 est.)

Malta
  0.2% (2001 est.)

Marshall Islands
  NA

Mauritania
  0.6% (2003 est.)

Mauritius
  0.1% (2001 est.)

Mayotte
  NA

Mexico
  0.3% (2003 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  NA

Moldova
  0.2% (2001 est.)

Monaco
  NA

Mongolia
  less than 0.1% (2003 est.)

Montserrat
  NA

Morocco
  0.1% (2001 est.)

Mozambique
  12.2% (2003 est.)

Namibia
  21.3% (2003 est.)

Nauru
  NA

Nepal
  0.5% (2001 est.)

Netherlands
  0.2% (2001 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  NA

New Caledonia
  NA

New Zealand
  0.1% (2003 est.)

Nicaragua
  0.2% (2003 est.)

Niger
  1.2% (2003 est.)

Nigeria
  5.4% (2003 est.)

Niue
  NA

Norfolk Island
  NA

Northern Mariana Islands
  NA

Norway
  0.1% (2001 est.)

Oman
  0.1% (2001 est.)

Pakistan
  0.1% (2001 est.)

Palau
  NA

Panama
  0.9% (2003 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  0.6% (2003 est.)

Paraguay
  0.5% (2003 est.)

Peru
  0.5% (2003 est.)

Philippines
  less than 0.1% (2003 est.)

Pitcairn Islands
  NA

Poland
  0.1%; note - no country specific models provided (2001 est.)

Portugal
  0.4% (2001 est.)

Puerto Rico
  NA

Qatar
  0.09% (2001 est.)

Romania
  less than 0.1% (2001 est.)

Russia
  1.1% (2001 est.)

Rwanda
  5.1% (2003 est.)

Saint Helena
  NA

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  NA

Saint Lucia
  NA

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  NA

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  NA

Samoa
  NA

San Marino
  NA

Sao Tome and Principe
  NA

Saudi Arabia
  0.01% (2001 est.)

Senegal
  0.8% (2003 est.)

Seychelles
  NA

Sierra Leone
  7% (2001 est.)

Singapore
  0.2% (2003 est.)

Slovakia
  less than 0.1% (2001 est.)

Slovenia
  less than 0.1% (2001 est.)

Solomon Islands
  NA

Somalia
  1% (2001 est.)

South Africa
  21.5% (2003 est.)

Spain
  0.7% (2001 est.)

Sri Lanka
  less than 0.1% (2001 est.)

Sudan
  2.3% (2001 est.)

Suriname
  1.7% (2001 est.)

Svalbard
  0% (2001)

Swaziland
  38.8% (2003 est.)

Sweden
  0.1% (2001 est.)

Switzerland
  0.4% (2001 est.)

Syria
  less than 0.1% (2001 est.)

Taiwan
  NA

Tajikistan
  less than 0.1% (2001 est.)

Tanzania
  8.8% (2003 est.)

Thailand
  1.5% (2003 est.)

Timor-Leste
  NA

Togo
  4.1% (2003 est.)

Tokelau
  NA

Tonga
  NA

Trinidad and Tobago
  3.2% (2003 est.)

Tunisia
  less than 0.1% (2005 est.)

Turkey
  less than 0.1%; note - no country specific models provided
  (2001 est.)

Turkmenistan
  less than 0.1% (2004 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  NA

Tuvalu
  NA

Uganda
  4.1% (2003 est.)

Ukraine
  1.4% (2003 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  0.18% (2001 est.)

United Kingdom
  0.2% (2001 est.)

United States
  0.6% (2003 est.)

Uruguay
  0.3% (2001 est.)

Uzbekistan
  less than 0.1% (2001 est.)

Vanuatu
  NA

Venezuela
  0.7%; note - no country specific models provided (2001
  est.)

Vietnam
  0.4% (2003 est.)

Virgin Islands
  NA

Wallis and Futuna
  NA

West Bank
  NA

Western Sahara
  NA

World
  NA

Yemen
  0.1% (2001 est.)

Zambia
  16.5% (2003 est.)

Zimbabwe
  24.6% (2001 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2156  HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS


Afghanistan
  NA

Albania
  NA

Algeria
  9,100 (2003 est.)

American Samoa
  NA

Andorra
  NA

Angola
  240,000 (2003 est.)

Anguilla
  NA

Antigua and Barbuda
  NA

Argentina
  130,000 (2001 est.)

Armenia
  2,600 (2003 est.)

Aruba
  NA

Australia
  14,000 (2003 est.)

Austria
  10,000 (2003 est.)

Azerbaijan
  1,400 (2003 est.)

Bahamas, The
  5,600 (2003 est.)

Bahrain
  fewer than 600 (2003 est.)

Bangladesh
  13,000 (2001 est.)

Barbados
  2,500 (2003 est.)

Belarus
  15,000 (2001 est.)

Belgium
  10,000 (2003 est.)

Belize
  3,600 (2003 est.)

Benin
  68,000 (2003 est.)

Bermuda
  163 (2005)

Bhutan
  fewer than 100 (1999 est.)

Bolivia
  4,900 (2003 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  900 (2003 est.)

Botswana
  350,000 (2003 est.)

Brazil
  660,000 (2003 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  NA

Brunei
  fewer than 200 (2003 est.)

Bulgaria
  346 (2001 est.)

Burkina Faso
  300,000 (2003 est.)

Burma
  330,000 (2003 est.)

Burundi
  250,000 (2003 est.)

Cambodia
  170,000 (2003 est.)

Cameroon
  560,000 (2003 est.)

Canada
  56,000 (2003 est.)

Cape Verde
  775 (2001)

Cayman Islands
  NA

Central African Republic
  260,000 (2003 est.)

Chad
  200,000 (2003 est.)

Chile
  26,000 (2003 est.)

China
  840,000 (2003 est.)

Christmas Island
  NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  NA

Colombia
  190,000 (2003 est.)

Comoros
  NA

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  1.1 million (2003 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  90,000 (2003 est.)

Cook Islands
  NA

Costa Rica
  12,000 (2003 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  570,000 (2003 est.)

Croatia
  200 (2001 est.)

Cuba
  3,300 (2003 est.)

Cyprus
  fewer than 1,000 (1999 est.)

Czech Republic
  2,500 (2001 est.)

Denmark
  5,000 (2003 est.)

Djibouti
  9,100 (2003 est.)

Dominica
  NA

Dominican Republic
  88,000 (2003 est.)

Ecuador
  21,000 (2003 est.)

Egypt
  12,000 (2001 est.)

El Salvador
  29,000 (2003 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  5,900 (2001 est.)

Eritrea
  60,000 (2003 est.)

Estonia
  7,800 (2003 est.)

Ethiopia
  1.5 million (2003 est.)

European Union
  note - see individual country entries of member states

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  NA

Faroe Islands
  NA

Fiji
  600 (2003 est.)

Finland
  1,500 (2003 est.)

France
  120,000 (2003 est.)

French Polynesia
  NA

Gabon
  48,000 (2003 est.)

Gambia, The
  6,800 (2003 est.)

Gaza Strip
  NA

Georgia
  3,000 (2003 est.)

Germany
  43,000 (2001 est.)

Ghana
  350,000 (2003 est.)

Gibraltar
  NA

Greece
  9,100 (2001 est.)

Greenland
  100 (1999)

Grenada
  NA

Guam
  NA

Guatemala
  78,000 (2003 est.)

Guernsey
  NA

Guinea
  140,000 (2003 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  17,000 (2001 est.)

Guyana
  11,000 (2003 est.)

Haiti
  280,000 (2003 est.)

Holy See (Vatican City)
  NA

Honduras
  63,000 (2003 est.)

Hong Kong
  2,600 (2003 est.)

Hungary
  2,800 (2001 est.)

Iceland
  220 (2001 est.)

India
  5.1 million (2001 est.)

Indonesia
  110,000 (2003 est.)

Iran
  66,000 (2005 est.)

Iraq
  fewer than 500 (2003 est.)

Ireland
  2,800 (2001 est.)

Isle of Man
  NA

Israel
  3,000 (1999 est.)

Italy
  140,000 (2001 est.)

Jamaica
  22,000 (2003 est.)

Japan
  12,000 (2003 est.)

Jersey
  NA

Jordan
  600 (2003 est.)

Kazakhstan
  16,500 (2001 est.)

Kenya
  1.2 million (2003 est.)

Kiribati
  NA

Korea, North
  NA

Korea, South
  8,300 (2003 est.)

Kuwait
  NA

Kyrgyzstan
  3,900 (2003 est.)

Laos
  1,700 (2003 est.)

Latvia
  7,600 (2001 est.)

Lebanon
  2,800 (2003 est.)

Lesotho
  320,000 (2003 est.)

Liberia
  100,000 (2003 est.)

Libya
  10,000 (2001 est.)

Liechtenstein
  NA

Lithuania
  1,300 (2003 est.)

Luxembourg
  fewer than 500 (2003 est.)

Macau
  NA

Macedonia
  fewer than 200 (2003 est.)

Madagascar
  140,000 (2003 est.)

Malawi
  900,000 (2003 est.)

Malaysia
  52,000 (2003 est.)

Maldives
  fewer than 100 (2001 est.)

Mali
  140,000 (2003 est.)

Malta
  fewer than 500 (2003 est.)

Marshall Islands
  NA

Mauritania
  9,500 (2003 est.)

Mauritius
  700 (2001 est.)

Mayotte
  NA

Mexico
  160,000 (2003 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  NA

Moldova
  5,500 (2001 est.)

Monaco
  NA

Mongolia
  fewer than 500 (2003 est)

Montserrat
  NA

Morocco
  15,000 (2001 est.)

Mozambique
  1.3 million (2003 est.)

Namibia
  210,000 (2001 est.)

Nauru
  NA

Nepal
  61,000 (2001 est.)

Netherlands
  19,000 (2001 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  NA

New Caledonia
  NA

New Zealand
  1,400 (2003 est.)

Nicaragua
  6,400 (2003 est.)

Niger
  70,000 (2003 est.)

Nigeria
  3.6 million (2003 est.)

Niue
  NA

Norfolk Island
  NA

Northern Mariana Islands
  NA

Norway
  2,100 (2001 est.)

Oman
  1,300 (2001 est.)

Pakistan
  74,000 (2001 est.)

Palau
  NA

Panama
  16,000 (2003 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  60,000 (2005 est.)

Paraguay
  15,000 (1999 est.)

Peru
  82,000 (2003 est.)

Philippines
  9,000 (2003 est.)

Pitcairn Islands
  NA

Poland
  14,000 (2003 est.)

Portugal
  22,000 (2001 est.)

Puerto Rico
  7,397 (1997)

Qatar
  NA

Romania
  6,500 (2001 est.)

Russia
  860,000 (2001 est.)

Rwanda
  250,000 (2003 est.)

Saint Helena
  NA

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  NA

Saint Lucia
  NA

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  NA

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  NA

Samoa
  NA

San Marino
  NA

Sao Tome and Principe
  NA

Saudi Arabia
  NA

Senegal
  44,000 (2003 est.)

Seychelles
  NA

Sierra Leone
  170,000 (2001 est.)

Singapore
  4,100 (2003 est.)

Slovakia
  fewer than 200 (2003 est.)

Slovenia
  280 (2001 est.)

Solomon Islands
  NA

Somalia
  43,000 (2001 est.)

South Africa
  5.3 million (2003 est.)

Spain
  140,000 (2001 est.)

Sri Lanka
  3,500 (2001 est.)

Sudan
  400,000 (2001 est.)

Suriname
  5,200 (2001 est.)

Svalbard
  0 (2001)

Swaziland
  220,000 (2003 est.)

Sweden
  3,600 (2001 est.)

Switzerland
  13,000 (2001 est.)

Syria
  fewer than 500 (2003 est.)

Taiwan
  NA

Tajikistan
  fewer than 200 (2003 est.)

Tanzania
  1.6 million (2003 est.)

Thailand
  570,000 (2003 est.)

Timor-Leste
  NA

Togo
  110,000 (2003 est.)

Tokelau
  NA

Tonga
  NA

Trinidad and Tobago
  29,000 (2003 est.)

Tunisia
  1,000 (2003 est.)

Turkey
  NA

Turkmenistan
  fewer than 200 (2003 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  NA

Tuvalu
  NA

Uganda
  530,000 (2001 est.)

Ukraine
  360,000 (2001 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  NA

United Kingdom
  51,000 (2001 est.)

United States
  950,000 (2003 est.)

Uruguay
  6,000 (2001 est.)

Uzbekistan
  11,000 (2003 est.)

Vanuatu
  NA

Venezuela
  110,000 (1999 est.)

Vietnam
  220,000 (2003 est.)

Virgin Islands
  NA

Wallis and Futuna
  NA

West Bank
  NA

Western Sahara
  NA

World
  NA

Yemen
  12,000 (2001 est.)

Zambia
  920,000 (2003 est.)

Zimbabwe
  1.8 million (2001 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2157  HIV/AIDS - deaths


Afghanistan
  NA

Albania
  NA

Algeria
  fewer than 500 (2003 est.)

American Samoa
  NA

Andorra
  NA

Angola
  21,000 (2003 est.)

Anguilla
  NA

Antigua and Barbuda
  NA

Argentina
  1,500 (2003 est.)

Armenia
  fewer than 200 (2003 est.)

Aruba
  NA

Australia
  fewer than 200 (2003 est.)

Austria
  fewer than 100 (2003 est.)

Azerbaijan
  fewer than 100 (2001 est.)

Bahamas, The
  fewer than 200 (2003 est.)

Bahrain
  fewer than 200 (2003 est.)

Bangladesh
  650 (2001 est.)

Barbados
  fewer than 200 (2003 est.)

Belarus
  1,000 (2001 est.)

Belgium
  fewer than 100 (2003 est.)

Belize
  fewer than 200 (2003 est.)

Benin
  5,800 (2003 est.)

Bermuda
  392 (2005)

Bhutan
  NA

Bolivia
  fewer than 500 (2003 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  100 (2001 est.)

Botswana
  33,000 (2003 est.)

Brazil
  15,000 (2003 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  NA

Brunei
  fewer than 200 (2003 est.)

Bulgaria
  100 (2001 est.)

Burkina Faso
  29,000 (2003 est.)

Burma
  20,000 (2003 est.)

Burundi
  25,000 (2003 est.)

Cambodia
  15,000 (2003 est.)

Cameroon
  49,000 (2003 est.)

Canada
  1,500 (2003 est.)

Cape Verde
  225 (as of 2001)

Cayman Islands
  NA

Central African Republic
  23,000 (2003 est.)

Chad
  18,000 (2003 est.)

Chile
  1,400 (2003 est.)

China
  44,000 (2003 est.)

Christmas Island
  NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands
  NA

Colombia
  3,600 (2003 est.)

Comoros
  NA

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  100,000 (2003 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  9,700 (2003 est.)

Cook Islands
  NA

Costa Rica
  900 (2003 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  47,000 (2003 est.)

Croatia
  fewer than 10 (2001 est.)

Cuba
  fewer than 200 (2003 est.)

Cyprus
  NA

Czech Republic
  fewer than 10 (2001 est.)

Denmark
  fewer than 100 (2003 est.)

Djibouti
  690 (2003 est.)

Dominica
  NA

Dominican Republic
  7,900 (2003 est.)

Ecuador
  1,700 (2003 est.)

Egypt
  700 (2003 est.)

El Salvador
  2,200 (2003 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  370 (2001 est.)

Eritrea
  6,300 (2003 est.)

Estonia
  fewer than 200 (2003 est.)

Ethiopia
  120,000 (2003 est.)

European Union
  note - see individual country entries of member states

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  NA

Faroe Islands
  NA

Fiji
  fewer than 200 (2003 est.)

Finland
  fewer than 100 (2003 est.)

France
  fewer than 1,000 (2003 est.)

French Polynesia
  NA

Gabon
  3,000 (2003 est.)

Gambia, The
  600 (2003 est.)

Gaza Strip
  NA

Georgia
  fewer than 200 (2003 est.)

Germany
  fewer than 1,000 (2003 est.)

Ghana
  30,000 (2003 est.)

Gibraltar
  NA

Greece
  fewer than 100 (2003 est.)

Greenland
  NA

Grenada
  NA

Guam
  NA

Guatemala
  5,800 (2003 est.)

Guernsey
  NA

Guinea
  9,000 (2003 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  1,200 (2001 est.)

Guyana
  1,100 (2003 est.)

Haiti
  24,000 (2003 est.)

Holy See (Vatican City)
  NA

Honduras
  4,100 (2003 est.)

Hong Kong
  fewer than 200 (2003 est.)

Hungary
  fewer than 100 (2001 est.)

Iceland
  fewer than 100 (2003 est.)

India
  310,000 (2001 est.)

Indonesia
  2,400 (2003 est.)

Iran
  1,600 (2005 est.)

Iraq
  NA

Ireland
  fewer than 100 (2003 est.)

Isle of Man
  NA

Israel
  100 (2001 est.)

Italy
  fewer than 1,000 (2003 est.)

Jamaica
  900 (2003 est.)

Japan
  500 (2003 est.)

Jersey
  NA

Jordan
  fewer than 500 (2003 est.)

Kazakhstan
  fewer than 200 (2003 est.)

Kenya
  150,000 (2003 est.)

Kiribati
  NA

Korea, North
  NA

Korea, South
  fewer than 200 (2003 est.)

Kuwait
  NA

Kyrgyzstan
  fewer than 200 (2003 est.)

Laos
  fewer than 200 (2003 est.)

Latvia
  fewer than 500 (2003 est.)

Lebanon
  fewer than 200 (2003 est.)

Lesotho
  29,000 (2003 est.)

Liberia
  7,200 (2003 est.)

Libya
  NA

Liechtenstein
  NA

Lithuania
  fewer than 200 (2003 est.)

Luxembourg
  fewer than 100 (2003 est.)

Macau
  NA

Macedonia
  fewer than 100 (2003 est.)

Madagascar
  7,500 (2003 est.)

Malawi
  84,000 (2003 est.)

Malaysia
  2,000 (2003 est.)

Maldives
  NA

Mali
  12,000 (2003 est.)

Malta
  fewer than 100 (2003 est.)

Marshall Islands
  NA

Mauritania
  fewer than 500 (2003 est.)

Mauritius
  fewer than 100 (2001 est.)

Mayotte
  NA

Mexico
  5,000 (2003 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  NA

Moldova
  fewer than 300 (2001 est.)

Monaco
  NA

Mongolia
  fewer than 200 (2003 est.)

Montserrat
  NA

Morocco
  NA

Mozambique
  110,000 (2003 est.)

Namibia
  16,000 (2003 est.)

Nauru
  NA

Nepal
  3,100 (2003 est.)

Netherlands
  fewer than 100 (2003 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  NA

New Caledonia
  NA

New Zealand
  fewer than 200 (2003 est.)

Nicaragua
  fewer than 500 (2003 est.)

Niger
  4,800 (2003 est.)

Nigeria
  310,000 (2003 est.)

Niue
  NA

Norfolk Island
  NA

Northern Mariana Islands
  NA

Norway
  fewer than 100 (2003 est.)

Oman
  fewer than 200 (2003 est.)

Pakistan
  4,900 (2003 est.)

Palau
  NA

Panama
  fewer than 500 (2003 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  600 (2003 est.)

Paraguay
  600 (2003 est.)

Peru
  4,200 (2003 est.)

Philippines
  fewer than 500 (2003 est.)

Pitcairn Islands
  NA

Poland
  100 (2001 est.)

Portugal
  fewer than 1,000 (2003 est.)

Puerto Rico
  NA

Qatar
  NA

Romania
  350 (2001 est.)

Russia
  9,000 (2001 est.)

Rwanda
  22,000 (2003 est.)

Saint Helena
  NA

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  NA

Saint Lucia
  NA

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  NA

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  NA

Samoa
  NA

San Marino
  NA

Sao Tome and Principe
  NA

Saudi Arabia
  NA

Senegal
  3,500 (2003 est.)

Seychelles
  NA

Sierra Leone
  11,000 (2001 est.)

Singapore
  fewer than 200 (2003 est.)

Slovakia
  fewer than 100 (2001 est.)

Slovenia
  fewer than 100 (2003 est.)

Solomon Islands
  NA

Somalia
  NA

South Africa
  370,000 (2003 est.)

Spain
  fewer than 1,000 (2003 est.)

Sri Lanka
  fewer than 200 (2003 est.)

Sudan
  23,000 (2003 est.)

Suriname
  fewer than 500 (2003 est.)

Svalbard
  0 (2001)

Swaziland
  17,000 (2003 est.)

Sweden
  fewer than 100 (2003 est.)

Switzerland
  fewer than 100 (2003 est.)

Syria
  fewer than 200 (2003 est.)

Taiwan
  NA

Tajikistan
  fewer than 100 (2001 est.)

Tanzania
  160,000 (2003 est.)

Thailand
  58,000 (2003 est.)

Timor-Leste
  NA

Togo
  10,000 (2003 est.)

Tokelau
  NA

Tonga
  NA

Trinidad and Tobago
  1,900 (2003 est.)

Tunisia
  fewer than 200 (2003 est.)

Turkey
  NA

Turkmenistan
  fewer than 100 (2004 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  NA

Tuvalu
  NA

Uganda
  78,000 (2003 est.)

Ukraine
  20,000 (2003 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  NA

United Kingdom
  fewer than 500 (2003 est.)

United States
  17,011 (2005 est.)

Uruguay
  fewer than 500 (2003 est.)

Uzbekistan
  fewer than 500 (2003 est.)

Vanuatu
  NA

Venezuela
  4,100 (2003 est.)

Vietnam
  9,000 (2003 est.)

Virgin Islands
  NA

Wallis and Futuna
  NA

West Bank
  NA

Western Sahara
  NA

World
  NA

Yemen
  NA

Zambia
  89,000 (2003 est.)

Zimbabwe
  170,000 (2003 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2172  Distribution of family income - Gini index


Albania
  26.7 (2005)

Algeria
  35.3 (1995)

Argentina
  49 (2006)

Armenia
  37 (2006)

Australia
  30.5 (2006)

Austria
  26 (2005)

Azerbaijan
  36.5 (2001)

Bangladesh
  33.4 (2000)

Belarus
  29.7 (2002)

Belgium
  28 (2005)

Benin
  36.5 (2003)

Bolivia
  59.2 (2006)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  26.2 (2001)

Botswana
  63 (1993)

Brazil
  56.7 (2005)

Bulgaria
  31.6 (2005)

Burkina Faso
  39.5 (2007)

Burundi
  42.4 (1998)

Cambodia
  41.7 (2004 est.)

Cameroon
  44.6 (2001)

Canada
  32.1 (2005)

Central African Republic
  61.3 (1993)

Chile
  54.9 (2003)

China
  47 (2007)

Colombia
  53.8 (2005)

Costa Rica
  49.8 (2003)

Cote d'Ivoire
  44.6 (2002)

Croatia
  29 (2001)

Cyprus
  29 (2005)

Czech Republic
  26 (2005)

Denmark
  24 (2005)

Dominican Republic
  51.6 (2004)

Ecuador
  46
  note: data are for urban households (2006)

Egypt
  34.4 (2001)

El Salvador
  52.4 (2002)

Estonia
  34 (2005)

Ethiopia
  30 (2000)

European Union
  30.7 (2003 est.)

Finland
  26 (2005)

France
  28 (2005)

Gambia, The
  50.2 (1998)

Georgia
  40.4 (2003)

Germany
  28 (2005)

Ghana
  39.4 (2005-06)

Greece
  33 (2005)

Guatemala
  55.1 (2007)

Guinea
  38.1 (2006)

Guyana
  43.2 (1999)

Haiti
  59.2 (2001)

Honduras
  53.8 (2003)

Hong Kong
  53.3 (2007)

Hungary
  28 (2005)

Iceland
  25 (2005)

India
  36.8 (2004)

Indonesia
  36.3 (2005)

Iran
  44.5 (2006)

Ireland
  32 (2005)

Israel
  38.6 (2005)

Italy
  33 (2005)

Jamaica
  45.5 (2004)

Japan
  38.1 (2002)

Jordan
  38.8 (2003)

Kazakhstan
  30.4 (2005)

Kenya
  44.5 (1997)

Korea, South
  35.1 (2006)

Kosovo
  30 (FY05/06)

Kyrgyzstan
  30.3 (2003)

Laos
  34.6 (2002)

Latvia
  37.7 (2003)

Lesotho
  63.2 (1995)

Lithuania
  36 (2005)

Luxembourg
  26 (2005)

Macedonia
  39 (2003)

Madagascar
  47.5 (2001)

Malawi
  39 (2004)

Malaysia
  46.1 (2002)

Mali
  40.1 (2001)

Malta
  28 (2005)

Mauritania
  39 (2000)

Mauritius
  39 (2006 est.)

Mexico
  50.9 (2005)

Moldova
  33.2 (2003)

Mongolia
  32.8 (2002)

Montenegro
  30 (2003)

Morocco
  40 (2005 est.)

Mozambique
  47.3 (2002)

Namibia
  70.7 (2003)

Nepal
  47.2 (2004)

Netherlands
  30.9 (2005)

New Zealand
  36.2 (1997)

Nicaragua
  43.1 (2001)

Niger
  50.5 (1995)

Nigeria
  43.7 (2003)

Norway
  28 (2005)

Pakistan
  30.6 (2002)

Panama
  56.1 (2003)

Papua New Guinea
  50.9 (1996)

Paraguay
  56.8 (2008)

Peru
  52 (2003)

Philippines
  45.8 (2006)

Poland
  36 (2005)

Portugal
  38.5 (2007)

Romania
  31 (2005)

Russia
  41.3 (September 2007)

Rwanda
  46.8 (2000)

Senegal
  41.3 (2001)

Serbia
  30 (2003)

Sierra Leone
  62.9 (1989)

Singapore
  52.2 (2005)

Slovakia
  26 (2005)

Slovenia
  24 (2005)

South Africa
  65 (2005)

Spain
  32 (2005)

Sri Lanka
  50 (FY03/04)

Swaziland
  50.4 (2001)

Sweden
  23 (2005)

Switzerland
  33.7 (2000)

Tajikistan
  32.6 (2003)

Tanzania
  34.6 (2000)

Thailand
  42 (2002)

Timor-Leste
  38 (2002 est.)

Tunisia
  40 (2005 est.)

Turkey
  43.6 (2003)

Turkmenistan
  40.8 (1998)

Uganda
  45.7 (2002)

Ukraine
  31 (2006)

United Kingdom
  34 (2005)

United States
  45 (2007)

Uruguay
  45.2 (2006)

Uzbekistan
  36.8 (2003)

Venezuela
  48.2 (2003)

Vietnam
  37 (2004)

Yemen
  33.4 (1998)

Zambia
  50.8 (2004)

Zimbabwe
  50.1 (2006)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2173  Oil - production (bbl/day)


Afghanistan
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Albania
  6,425 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Algeria
  2.173 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

American Samoa
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Angola
  1.91 million bbl/day (2008 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Argentina
  790,800 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Armenia
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Aruba
  2,356 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Australia
  600,000 bbl/day (2008 est.)

Austria
  24,920 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Azerbaijan
  1.099 million bbl/day (2008 est.)

Bahamas, The
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Bahrain
  48,610 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Bangladesh
  6,746 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Barbados
  1,111 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Belarus
  33,700 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Belgium
  8,671 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Belize
  3,000 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Benin
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Bermuda
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Bhutan
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Bolivia
  61,790 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Botswana
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Brazil
  2.277 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Brunei
  180,500 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Bulgaria
  3,661 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Burkina Faso
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Burma
  21,900 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Burundi
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Cambodia
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Cameroon
  87,400 bbl/day (2008 est.)

Canada
  3.425 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

Cape Verde
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Cayman Islands
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Central African Republic
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Chad
  156,000 bbl/day (2008 est.)

Chile
  11,610 bbl/day (2007 est.)

China
  3.725 million bbl/day (2008 est.)

Colombia
  550,000 bbl/day (2008 est.)

Comoros
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  22,160 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  261,000 bbl/day

Cook Islands
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Costa Rica
  0 bbl/day (2004)

Cote d'Ivoire
  54,400 bbl/day (2008 est.)

Croatia
  23,620 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Cuba
  61,300 bbl/day (2008 est.)

Cyprus
  0 bbl/day (2008 est.)

Czech Republic
  13,530 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Denmark
  313,800 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Djibouti
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Dominica
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Dominican Republic
  12 bbl/day (2004)

Ecuador
  511,600 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Egypt
  664,000 bbl/day (2007 est.)

El Salvador
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Equatorial Guinea
  368,500 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Eritrea
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Estonia
  7,430 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Ethiopia
  7.334 bbl/day (2007 est.)

European Union
  2.674 million bbl/day (2007)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Faroe Islands
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Fiji
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Finland
  8,951 bbl/day (2007 est.)

France
  69,680 bbl/day (2007 est.)

French Polynesia
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Gabon
  243,900 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Gambia, The
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Georgia
  979.1 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Germany
  148,100 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Ghana
  7,571 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Gibraltar
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Greece
  4,265 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Greenland
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Grenada
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Guam
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Guatemala
  15,820 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Guinea
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Guyana
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Haiti
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Honduras
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Hong Kong
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Hungary
  32,580 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Iceland
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

India
  880,500 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Indonesia
  1.044 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

Iran
  4.033 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

Iraq
  2.094 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

Ireland
  0 bbl/day (2005 est.)

Israel
  5,966 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Italy
  166,600 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Jamaica
  0 bbl/day (2005 est.)

Japan
  129,800 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Jordan
  0 bbl/day (2005 est.)

Kazakhstan
  1.445 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

Kenya
  0 bbl/day (2008 est.)

Kiribati
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Korea, North
  141 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Korea, South
  20,970 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Kosovo
  0 bbl/day (2007)

Kuwait
  2.613 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  964.7 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Laos
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Latvia
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Lebanon
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Lesotho
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Liberia
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Libya
  1.845 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

Lithuania
  8,250 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Luxembourg
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Macau
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Macedonia
  0 bbl/day (2007)

Madagascar
  92.18 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Malawi
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Malaysia
  753,700 bbl/day (2008 est.)

Maldives
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Mali
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Malta
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Mauritania
  14,990 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Mauritius
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Mexico
  3.501 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

Moldova
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Mongolia
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Montenegro
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Montserrat
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Morocco
  3,746 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Mozambique
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Namibia
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Nauru
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Nepal
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Netherlands
  88,950 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  0 bbl/day (2005 est.)

New Caledonia
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

New Zealand
  47,850 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Nicaragua
  0 bbl/day (2005 est.)

Niger
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Nigeria
  2.352 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

Niue
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Norway
  2.565 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

Oman
  714,300 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Pakistan
  68,670 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Panama
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  42,100 bbl/day (2008 est.)

Paraguay
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Peru
  125,000 bbl/day (2008 est.)

Philippines
  23,930 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Poland
  37,670 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Portugal
  6,281 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Puerto Rico
  1,354 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Qatar
  1.125 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

Romania
  112,400 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Russia
  9.876 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

Rwanda
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Saint Helena
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Saint Lucia
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Samoa
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  10.25 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

Senegal
  0 bbl/day (2005 est.)

Serbia
  11,410 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Seychelles
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Sierra Leone
  0.7008 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Singapore
  9,836 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Slovakia
  12,770 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Slovenia
  5 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Solomon Islands
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Somalia
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

South Africa
  199,100 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Spain
  29,000 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Sri Lanka
  0 bbl/day (2005 est.)

Sudan
  466,100 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Suriname
  13,000 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Swaziland
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Sweden
  2,350 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Switzerland
  3,202 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Syria
  433,200 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Taiwan
  10,600 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Tajikistan
  281.1 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Tanzania
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Thailand
  348,600 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Timor-Leste
  78,480 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Togo
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Tonga
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  163,300 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Tunisia
  86,210 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Turkey
  42,800 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Turkmenistan
  180,400 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Uganda
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Ukraine
  102,400 bbl/day (2007 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  2.948 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

United Kingdom
  1.69 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

United States
  8.457 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

Uruguay
  935.7 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Uzbekistan
  99,260 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Vanuatu
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Venezuela
  2.667 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

Vietnam
  350,700 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Virgin Islands
  17,620 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Western Sahara
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

World
  84.79 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

Yemen
  320,600 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Zambia
  150 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Zimbabwe
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2174  Oil - consumption (bbl/day)


Afghanistan
  5,036 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Albania
  30,900 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Algeria
  279,800 bbl/day (2006 est.)

American Samoa
  4,053 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Angola
  55,640 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  4,109 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Argentina
  525,100 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Armenia
  41,090 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Aruba
  7,102 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Australia
  966,200 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Austria
  289,400 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Azerbaijan
  160,000 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Bahamas, The
  26,830 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Bahrain
  32,830 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Bangladesh
  89,940 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Barbados
  8,674 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Belarus
  179,700 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Belgium
  628,500 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Belize
  7,000 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Benin
  9,232 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Bermuda
  4,566 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Bhutan
  1,250 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Bolivia
  31,500 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  27,590 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Botswana
  11,640 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Brazil
  2.372 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  650 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Brunei
  13,200 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Bulgaria
  109,600 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Burkina Faso
  8,470 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Burma
  43,140 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Burundi
  2,956 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Cambodia
  3,736 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Cameroon
  24,500 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Canada
  2.371 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

Cape Verde
  2,117 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Cayman Islands
  2,767 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Central African Republic
  2,322 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Chad
  1,352 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Chile
  253,000 bbl/day (2006 est.)

China
  7.578 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

Colombia
  265,400 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Comoros
  712.3 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  10,460 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  7,677 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Cook Islands
  463.7 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Costa Rica
  45,600 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  25,950 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Croatia
  101,800 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Cuba
  203,500 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Cyprus
  57,830 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Czech Republic
  207,400 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Denmark
  190,600 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Djibouti
  12,170 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Dominica
  850.5 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Dominican Republic
  117,300 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Ecuador
  160,500 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Egypt
  652,700 bbl/day (2006 est.)

El Salvador
  44,330 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  918.3 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Eritrea
  5,186 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Estonia
  30,440 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Ethiopia
  30,450 bbl/day (2006 est.)

European Union
  14.39 million bbl/day (2007)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  252.3 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Faroe Islands
  4,628 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Fiji
  9,971 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Finland
  228,200 bbl/day (2007 est.)

France
  1.95 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

French Polynesia
  6,082 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Gabon
  13,170 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Gambia, The
  2,082 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Georgia
  12,980 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Germany
  2.456 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

Ghana
  49,300 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Gibraltar
  22,620 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Greece
  441,400 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Greenland
  3,927 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Grenada
  2,043 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Guam
  12,780 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Guatemala
  74,230 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Guinea
  8,559 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  2,520 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Guyana
  10,440 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Haiti
  12,370 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Honduras
  46,830 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Hong Kong
  293,100 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Hungary
  162,800 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Iceland
  21,120 bbl/day (2007 est.)

India
  2.722 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

Indonesia
  1.219 million bbl/day (2006 est.)

Iran
  1.679 million bbl/day (2006 est.)

Iraq
  295,000 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Ireland
  200,900 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Israel
  232,300 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Italy
  1.702 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

Jamaica
  73,370 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Japan
  5.007 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

Jordan
  110,700 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Kazakhstan
  243,100 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Kenya
  65,530 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Kiribati
  232.4 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Korea, North
  24,000 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Korea, South
  2.214 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

Kosovo
  NA bbl

Kuwait
  334,700 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  12,330 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Laos
  2,996 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Latvia
  35,180 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Lebanon
  106,000 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Lesotho
  1,400 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Liberia
  3,687 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Libya
  278,700 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Lithuania
  57,170 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Luxembourg
  60,640 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Macau
  16,570 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Macedonia
  19,590 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Madagascar
  18,190 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Malawi
  6,160 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Malaysia
  501,100 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Maldives
  5,490 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Mali
  4,640 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Malta
  18,680 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Mauritania
  19,320 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Mauritius
  22,450 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Mexico
  2.119 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

Moldova
  15,770 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Mongolia
  12,860 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Montenegro
  450 bbl/day (2004)

Montserrat
  505.5 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Morocco
  179,700 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Mozambique
  14,390 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Namibia
  19,840 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Nauru
  1,070 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Nepal
  16,960 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Netherlands
  984,200 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  67,450 bbl/day (2006 est.)

New Caledonia
  11,560 bbl/day (2006 est.)

New Zealand
  158,400 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Nicaragua
  28,880 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Niger
  5,550 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Nigeria
  312,000 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Niue
  20 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Norway
  224,500 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Oman
  69,100 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Pakistan
  345,000 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Panama
  92,790 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  29,050 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Paraguay
  27,410 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Peru
  167,900 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Philippines
  340,100 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Poland
  524,000 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Portugal
  301,000 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Puerto Rico
  215,000 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Qatar
  108,900 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Romania
  238,200 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Russia
  2.858 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

Rwanda
  5,320 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Saint Helena
  60 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  950 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Saint Lucia
  2,780 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  560 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  1,570 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Samoa
  1,130 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe
  660 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  2.311 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

Senegal
  36,200 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Serbia
  85,000 bbl/day (2003 est.)

Seychelles
  6,560 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Sierra Leone
  8,430 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Singapore
  834,600 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Slovakia
  82,860 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Slovenia
  54,310 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Solomon Islands
  1,320 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Somalia
  5,040 bbl/day (2006 est.)

South Africa
  504,900 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Spain
  1.611 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

Sri Lanka
  86,030 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Sudan
  79,760 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Suriname
  12,370 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Swaziland
  3,490 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Sweden
  353,700 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Switzerland
  244,900 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Syria
  261,000 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Taiwan
  950,500 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Tajikistan
  31,590 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Tanzania
  27,270 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Thailand
  928,600 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Togo
  17,770 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Tonga
  870 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  28,730 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Tunisia
  91,110 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Turkey
  676,600 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Turkmenistan
  107,400 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  80 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Uganda
  11,570 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Ukraine
  344,000 bbl/day (2006 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  381,000 bbl/day (2006 est.)

United Kingdom
  1.763 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

United States
  20.68 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

Uruguay
  33,400 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Uzbekistan
  157,100 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Vanuatu
  660 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Venezuela
  738,300 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Vietnam
  271,100 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Virgin Islands
  91,680 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Western Sahara
  1,760 bbl/day (2006 est.)

World
  85.27 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

Yemen
  135,400 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Zambia
  14,760 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Zimbabwe
  14,590 bbl/day (2006 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2175  Oil - imports (bbl/day)


Afghanistan
  4,534 bbl/day (2005)

Albania
  24,860 bbl/day (2005 est.)

Algeria
  13,110 bbl/day (2005 est.)

American Samoa
  4,066 bbl/day (2005)

Angola
  19,550 bbl/day (2005)

Antigua and Barbuda
  4,556 bbl/day (2005)

Argentina
  23,380 bbl/day (2005)

Armenia
  44,670 bbl/day (2005)

Aruba
  238,200 bbl/day (2005)

Australia
  615,000 bbl/day (2005)

Austria
  313,500 bbl/day (2005)

Azerbaijan
  4,267 bbl/day (2005)

Bahamas, The
  69,780 bbl/day (2005)

Bahrain
  221,500 bbl/day (2005)

Bangladesh
  83,220 bbl/day (2005)

Barbados
  10,710 bbl/day (2005)

Belarus
  394,100 bbl/day (2005 est.)

Belgium
  1.119 million bbl/day (2005)

Belize
  7,122 bbl/day (2005)

Benin
  16,830 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Bermuda
  4,378 bbl/day (2005)

Bhutan
  1,152 bbl/day (2005)

Bolivia
  8,600 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  27,370 bbl/day (2005)

Botswana
  14,500 bbl/day (2005)

Brazil
  648,800 bbl/day (2005)

British Virgin Islands
  649.8 bbl/day (2005)

Brunei
  304 bbl/day (2005)

Bulgaria
  158,400 bbl/day (2005 est.)

Burkina Faso
  8,446 bbl/day (2005)

Burma
  22,180 bbl/day (2005 est.)

Burundi
  2,635 bbl/day (2005)

Cambodia
  3,618 bbl/day (2005)

Cameroon
  50,750 bbl/day (2005)

Canada
  1.229 million bbl/day (2005)

Cape Verde
  1,785 bbl/day (2005)

Cayman Islands
  2,818 bbl/day (2005)

Central African Republic
  2,057 bbl/day (2005)

Chad
  1,492 bbl/day (2005)

Chile
  222,900 bbl/day (2006 est.)

China
  3.19 million bbl/day (2007)

Colombia
  12,480 bbl/day (2005)

Comoros
  755.4 bbl/day (2005)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  8,220 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  1,702 bbl/day (2005)

Cook Islands
  475.5 bbl/day (2005)

Costa Rica
  43,110 bbl/day (2005)

Cote d'Ivoire
  71,850 bbl/day (2005)

Croatia
  112,200 bbl/day (2005)

Cuba
  123,200 bbl/day (2005)

Cyprus
  55,970 bbl/day (2005)

Czech Republic
  224,600 bbl/day (2005)

Denmark
  164,000 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Djibouti
  11,810 bbl/day (2005)

Dominica
  669.6 bbl/day (2005)

Dominican Republic
  116,600 bbl/day (2005)

Ecuador
  47,060 bbl/day (2005)

Egypt
  140,000 bbl/day (2005)

El Salvador
  45,210 bbl/day (2006)

Equatorial Guinea
  1,070 bbl/day (2005)

Eritrea
  4,924 bbl/day (2005)

Estonia
  28,170 bbl/day (2005)

Ethiopia
  29,820 bbl/day (2005)

European Union
  17.71 million bbl/day (2001)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  248.9 bbl/day (2005)

Faroe Islands
  4,636 bbl/day (2005)

Fiji
  10,900 bbl/day (2005)

Finland
  281,300 bbl/day (January-September 2007 est.)

France
  2.465 million bbl/day (2005)

French Polynesia
  6,271 bbl/day (2005)

Gabon
  2,485 bbl/day (2005)

Gambia, The
  2,123 bbl/day (2005)

Georgia
  15,820 bbl/day (2005)

Germany
  3.026 million bbl/day (2005)

Ghana
  45,520 bbl/day (2005)

Gibraltar
  25,080 bbl/day (2005)

Greece
  527,200 bbl/day (2005)

Greenland
  4,089 bbl/day (2005)

Grenada
  1,844 bbl/day (2005)

Guam
  13,530 bbl/day (2005)

Guatemala
  72,960 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Guinea
  8,811 bbl/day (2005)

Guinea-Bissau
  2,560 bbl/day (2005)

Guyana
  10,960 bbl/day (2005)

Haiti
  11,980 bbl/day (2005)

Honduras
  44,040 bbl/day (2005)

Hong Kong
  314,700 bbl/day (2006)

Hungary
  178,400 bbl/day (2005)

Iceland
  17,450 bbl/day (2005)

India
  2.159 million bbl/day (2005 est.)

Indonesia
  500,000 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Iran
  167,800 bbl/day (2005)

Iraq
  NA bbl/day

Ireland
  194,000 bbl/day (2005)

Israel
  334,300 bbl/day (2005)

Italy
  2.223 million bbl/day (2005)

Jamaica
  71,280 bbl/day (2005)

Japan
  5.47 million bbl/day (2005)

Jordan
  112,300 bbl/day (2005 est.)

Kazakhstan
  127,600 bbl/day (2005)

Kenya
  72,780 bbl/day (2005)

Kiribati
  259.1 bbl/day (2005)

Korea, North
  10,520 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Korea, South
  2.41 million bbl/day (2006)

Kuwait
  8,022 bbl/day (2005)

Kyrgyzstan
  14,240 bbl/day (2005)

Laos
  3,036 bbl/day (2005)

Latvia
  45,340 bbl/day (2005)

Lebanon
  97,590 bbl/day (2005)

Lesotho
  1,500 bbl/day (2005)

Liberia
  3,593 bbl/day (2005)

Libya
  575.3 bbl/day (2005)

Lithuania
  206,700 bbl/day (2005)

Luxembourg
  63,760 bbl/day (2005)

Macau
  13,870 bbl/day (2006)

Macedonia
  26,470 bbl/day (2005)

Madagascar
  17,100 bbl/day (2005)

Malawi
  6,788 bbl/day (2005)

Malaysia
  308,500 bbl/day (2005)

Maldives
  5,362 bbl/day (2005)

Mali
  4,860 bbl/day (2005 est.)

Malta
  18,910 bbl/day (2005)

Mauritania
  23,630 bbl/day (2005)

Mauritius
  23,650 bbl/day (2006)

Mexico
  385,400 bbl/day (2005)

Moldova
  14,450 bbl/day (2005)

Mongolia
  12,630 bbl/day (2005 est.)

Montserrat
  482.6 bbl/day (2005)

Morocco
  192,500 bbl/day (2005 est.)

Mozambique
  13,240 bbl/day (2005)

Namibia
  17,750 bbl/day (2005)

Nauru
  1,049 bbl/day (2005)

Nepal
  11,530 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Netherlands
  2.648 million bbl/day (2005)

Netherlands Antilles
  277,600 bbl/day (2005)

New Caledonia
  11,780 bbl/day (2005)

New Zealand
  137,300 bbl/day (2005)

Nicaragua
  29,700 bbl/day (2005 est.)

Niger
  5,425 bbl/day (2005)

Nigeria
  154,300 bbl/day (2005)

Niue
  26.57 bbl/day (2005)

Norway
  92,650 bbl/day (2005)

Oman
  15,440 bbl/day (2005)

Pakistan
  290,600 bbl/day (2005)

Panama
  88,790 bbl/day (2005)

Papua New Guinea
  24,150 bbl/day (2005)

Paraguay
  25,940 bbl/day (2007)

Peru
  115,600 bbl/day (2005)

Philippines
  355,800 bbl/day (2005)

Poland
  499,200 bbl/day (2005)

Portugal
  390,300 bbl/day (2005)

Puerto Rico
  230,700 bbl/day (2005)

Qatar
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Romania
  219,000 bbl/day (2005)

Russia
  73,140 bbl/day (2005)

Rwanda
  5,597 bbl/day (2005)

Saint Helena
  85.42 bbl/day (2005)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  917.8 bbl/day (2005)

Saint Lucia
  2,631 bbl/day (2005)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  556.8 bbl/day (2005)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  1,460 bbl/day (2005)

Samoa
  1,128 bbl/day (2005)

Sao Tome and Principe
  659.5 bbl/day (2005)

Saudi Arabia
  41,680 bbl/day (2005)

Senegal
  40,450 bbl/day (2005)

Serbia
  NA bbl/day

Seychelles
  5,722 bbl/day (2005)

Sierra Leone
  8,271 bbl/day (2005)

Singapore
  2.003 million bbl/day (2005)

Slovakia
  134,100 bbl/day (2005)

Slovenia
  59,110 bbl/day (2005)

Solomon Islands
  1,426 bbl/day (2005)

Somalia
  4,772 bbl/day (2005)

South Africa
  319,000 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Spain
  1.777 million bbl/day (2005)

Sri Lanka
  87,090 bbl/day (2005)

Sudan
  7,558 bbl/day (2005)

Suriname
  6,369 bbl/day (2005)

Swaziland
  3,530 bbl/day (2005)

Sweden
  581,000 bbl/day (2005)

Switzerland
  274,900 bbl/day (2005)

Syria
  160,000 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Taiwan
  1.208 million bbl/day (2006)

Tajikistan
  7,600 bbl/day (2007)

Tanzania
  26,760 bbl/day (2005)

Thailand
  832,900 bbl/day (2005)

Togo
  16,650 bbl/day (2005)

Tonga
  1,035 bbl/day (2005)

Trinidad and Tobago
  72,780 bbl/day (2005)

Tunisia
  89,130 bbl/day (2005)

Turkey
  714,100 bbl/day (2005)

Turkmenistan
  5,283 bbl/day (2005)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  83.78 bbl/day (2005)

Uganda
  11,540 bbl/day (2005)

Ukraine
  441,200 bbl/day (2005)

United Arab Emirates
  232,300 bbl/day (2005)

United Kingdom
  1.673 million bbl/day (2005)

United States
  13.71 million bbl/day (2005)

Uruguay
  43,670 bbl/day (2007)

Uzbekistan
  31,440 bbl/day (2005)

Vanuatu
  671.1 bbl/day (2005)

Venezuela
  0 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Vietnam
  271,100 bbl/day (2007)

Virgin Islands
  492,300 bbl/day (2005)

Western Sahara
  1,925 bbl/day (2005)

World
  65.41 million bbl/day (2005)

Yemen
  62,850 bbl/day (2005)

Zambia
  13,810 bbl/day (2005)

Zimbabwe
  15,800 bbl/day (2005 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2176  Oil - exports (bbl/day)


Afghanistan
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Albania
  748.9 bbl/day (2005 est.)

Algeria
  1.844 million bbl/day (2005 est.)

American Samoa
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Angola
  1.23 million bbl/day (2005)

Antigua and Barbuda
  157.7 bbl/day (2005)

Argentina
  339,900 bbl/day (2005)

Armenia
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Aruba
  233,300 bbl/day (2005)

Australia
  337,400 bbl/day (2005)

Austria
  46,300 bbl/day (2005)

Azerbaijan
  795,600 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Bahamas, The
  transshipments of 38,740 bbl/day (2005)

Bahrain
  238,900 bbl/day (2005)

Bangladesh
  1,351 bbl/day (2005)

Barbados
  1,750 bbl/day (2005)

Belarus
  256,400 bbl/day (2005 est.)

Belgium
  528,700 bbl/day (2005)

Belize
  1,960 bbl/day (2006)

Benin
  6,484 bbl/day (2005)

Bermuda
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Bhutan
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Bolivia
  18,500 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Botswana
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Brazil
  481,100 bbl/day (2005)

British Virgin Islands
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Brunei
  200,000 bbl/day (2005)

Bulgaria
  50,530 bbl/day (2005 est.)

Burkina Faso
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Burma
  5,000 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Burundi
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Cambodia
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Cameroon
  108,800 bbl/day (2005)

Canada
  2.225 million bbl/day (2005)

Cape Verde
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Cayman Islands
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Central African Republic
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Chad
  176,700 bbl/day (2005)

Chile
  32,500 bbl/day (2005)

China
  79,060 bbl/day (2007)

Colombia
  276,100 bbl/day (2005)

Comoros
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  19,820 bbl/day (2005)

Congo, Republic of the
  230,200 bbl/day (2005 est.)

Cook Islands
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Costa Rica
  2,115 bbl/day (2005)

Cote d'Ivoire
  84,940 bbl/day (2005)

Croatia
  43,680 bbl/day (2005)

Cuba
  0 bbl/day (2006)

Cyprus
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Czech Republic
  27,360 bbl/day (2005)

Denmark
  320,000 bbl/day (2006)

Djibouti
  19.18 bbl/day (2005)

Dominica
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Dominican Republic
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Ecuador
  421,700 bbl/day (2005 est.)

Egypt
  204,700 bbl/day (2005 est.)

El Salvador
  4,963 bbl/day (2006)

Equatorial Guinea
  375,400 bbl/day (2005)

Eritrea
  54.74 bbl/day (2005)

Estonia
  7,000 bbl/day (2005)

Ethiopia
  0 bbl/day (2005)

European Union
  6.979 million bbl/day (2001)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Faroe Islands
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Fiji
  2,848 bbl/day (2005)

Finland
  126,300 bbl/day (January-September 2007 est.)

France
  584,700 bbl/day (2005)

French Polynesia
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Gabon
  255,500 bbl/day (2005)

Gambia, The
  41.62 bbl/day (2005)

Georgia
  2,492 bbl/day (2005)

Germany
  563,400 bbl/day (2005)

Ghana
  5,709 bbl/day (2005)

Gibraltar
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Greece
  125,100 bbl/day (2005)

Greenland
  149.5 bbl/day (2005)

Grenada
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Guam
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Guatemala
  15,560 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Guinea
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Guinea-Bissau
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Guyana
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Haiti
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Honduras
  417.9 bbl/day (2005)

Hong Kong
  22,420 bbl/day (2006)

Hungary
  66,660 bbl/day (2005)

Iceland
  860.8 bbl/day (2005)

India
  450,700 bbl/day (2005 est.)

Indonesia
  470,000 bbl/day (2006 est.)

Iran
  2.52 million bbl/day (2006 est.)

Iraq
  1.67 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

Ireland
  29,780 bbl/day (2005)

Israel
  82,910 bbl/day (2005)

Italy
  616,700 bbl/day (2005)

Jamaica
  1,535 bbl/day (2005)

Japan
  168,800 bbl/day (2005)

Jordan
  0 bbl/day (2005 est.)

Kazakhstan
  1.236 million bbl/day (2005 est.)

Kenya
  5,137 bbl/day (2005)

Kiribati
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Korea, North
  0 bbl/day (2006)

Korea, South
  NA bbl/day

Kuwait
  2.356 million bbl/day (2005)

Kyrgyzstan
  2,534 bbl/day (2005)

Laos
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Latvia
  10,070 bbl/day (2005)

Lebanon
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Lesotho
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Liberia
  23.37 bbl/day (2005)

Libya
  1.455 million bbl/day (2005)

Lithuania
  148,400 bbl/day (2005)

Luxembourg
  281.5 bbl/day (2005)

Macau
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Macedonia
  6,768 bbl/day (2005)

Madagascar
  480.3 bbl/day (2005)

Malawi
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Malaysia
  546,300 bbl/day (2005)

Maldives
  1,499 bbl/day (2005)

Mali
  0 bbl/day (2006)

Malta
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Mauritania
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Mauritius
  0 bbl/day (2006)

Mexico
  2.204 million bbl/day (2005)

Moldova
  50.03 bbl/day (2005)

Mongolia
  0 bbl/day (2005 est.)

Montserrat
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Morocco
  24,360 bbl/day (2005 est.)

Mozambique
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Namibia
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Nauru
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Nepal
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Netherlands
  1.639 million bbl/day (2005)

Netherlands Antilles
  206,900 bbl/day (2005)

New Caledonia
  356.2 bbl/day (2005)

New Zealand
  14,570 bbl/day (2005)

Nicaragua
  808.5 bbl/day (2005)

Niger
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Nigeria
  2.473 million bbl/day (2005)

Niue
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Norway
  2.714 million bbl/day (2005)

Oman
  722,000 bbl/day (2005)

Pakistan
  28,060 bbl/day (2005)

Panama
  4,447 bbl/day (2005)

Papua New Guinea
  39,310 bbl/day (2005)

Paraguay
  0 bbl/day (2007)

Peru
  69,090 bbl/day (2005 est.)

Philippines
  41,160 bbl/day (2005)

Poland
  57,920 bbl/day (2005)

Portugal
  50,490 bbl/day (2005)

Puerto Rico
  10,610 bbl/day (2005)

Qatar
  1.026 million bbl/day (2005)

Romania
  125,200 bbl/day (2005)

Russia
  5.08 million bbl/day (2007)

Rwanda
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Saint Helena
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Saint Lucia
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Samoa
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Sao Tome and Principe
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Saudi Arabia
  8.9 million bbl/day (2007 est.)

Senegal
  4,298 bbl/day (2005)

Serbia
  NA bbl/day

Seychelles
  0 bbl/day (2006)

Sierra Leone
  432.3 bbl/day (2005)

Singapore
  1.203 million bbl/day (2005)

Slovakia
  72,240 bbl/day (2005)

Slovenia
  4,535 bbl/day (2005)

Solomon Islands
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Somalia
  0 bbl/day (2005)

South Africa
  267,700 bbl/day (2005)

Spain
  181,800 bbl/day (2005)

Sri Lanka
  291.9 bbl/day (2005)

Sudan
  282,100 bbl/day (2005)

Suriname
  2,899 bbl/day (2005)

Swaziland
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Sweden
  219,200 bbl/day (2005)

Switzerland
  9,370 bbl/day (2005)

Syria
  254,500 bbl/day (2005 est.)

Taiwan
  289,200 bbl/day (2006)

Tajikistan
  247.7 bbl/day (2005)

Tanzania
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Thailand
  207,400 bbl/day (2005)

Togo
  1,547 bbl/day (2005)

Tonga
  0 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  218,800 bbl/day (2005)

Tunisia
  73,790 bbl/day (2005)

Turkey
  114,600 bbl/day (2005)

Turkmenistan
  40,000 bbl/day (2007 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Uganda
  115.2 bbl/day (2005)

Ukraine
  190,500 bbl/day (2005)

United Arab Emirates
  2.703 million bbl/day (2005 est.)

United Kingdom
  1.749 million bbl/day (2005)

United States
  1.165 million bbl/day (2005)

Uruguay
  4,410 bbl/day (2007)

Uzbekistan
  11,940 bbl/day (2005)

Vanuatu
  0 bbl/day (2005)

Venezuela
  2.203 million bbl/day (2006 est.)

Vietnam
  394,400 bbl/day (2005)

Virgin Islands
  398,500 bbl/day (2005)

Western Sahara
  0 bbl/day (2005)

World
  66.19 million bbl/day (2005)

Yemen
  336,600 bbl/day (2005)

Zambia
  190.6 bbl/day (2005)

Zimbabwe
  0 bbl/day (2005 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2177  Median age (years)


Afghanistan
  total: 17.6 years
  male: 17.6 years
  female: 17.6 years (2008 est.)

Albania
  total: 29.5 years
  male: 28.9 years
  female: 30.2 years (2008 est.)

Algeria
  total: 26 years
  male: 25.8 years
  female: 26.2 years (2008 est.)

American Samoa
  total: 22.8 years
  male: 22.7 years
  female: 23 years (2008 est.)

Andorra
  total: 38.9 years
  male: 39.2 years
  female: 38.6 years (2008 est.)

Angola
  total: 18 years
  male: 18 years
  female: 18 years (2008 est.)

Anguilla
  total: 32.3 years
  male: 31.3 years
  female: 33.4 years (2008 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  total: 29.5 years
  male: 28 years
  female: 30.8 years (2008 est.)

Argentina
  total: 29.7 years
  male: 28.8 years
  female: 30.8 years (2008 est.)

Armenia
  total: 31.1 years
  male: 28.4 years
  female: 34 years (2008 est.)

Aruba
  total: 37.6 years
  male: 35.8 years
  female: 39.3 years (2008 est.)

Australia
  total: 37.1 years
  male: 36.4 years
  female: 37.9 years (2008 est.)

Austria
  total: 41.7 years
  male: 40.7 years
  female: 42.8 years (2008 est.)

Azerbaijan
  total: 27.9 years
  male: 26.3 years
  female: 29.7 years (2008 est.)

Bahamas, The
  total: 28.4 years
  male: 27.6 years
  female: 29.2 years (2008 est.)

Bahrain
  total: 29.9 years
  male: 33 years
  female: 26.4 years (2008 est.)

Bangladesh
  total: 22.8 years
  male: 22.8 years
  female: 22.9 years (2008 est.)

Barbados
  total: 35.4 years
  male: 34.2 years
  female: 36.4 years (2008 est.)

Belarus
  total: 38.4 years
  male: 35.4 years
  female: 41.3 years (2008 est.)

Belgium
  total: 41.4 years
  male: 40.2 years
  female: 42.7 years (2008 est.)

Belize
  total: 20.1 years
  male: 20 years
  female: 20.3 years (2008 est.)

Benin
  total: 17.1 years
  male: 16.7 years
  female: 17.6 years (2008 est.)

Bermuda
  total: 41 years
  male: 40.1 years
  female: 41.8 years (2008 est.)

Bhutan
  total: 23.5 years
  male: 24.1 years
  female: 22.8 years (2008 est.)

Bolivia
  total: 22.6 years
  male: 21.9 years
  female: 23.3 years (2008 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  total: 39.4 years
  male: 38.2 years
  female: 40.5 years (2008 est.)

Botswana
  total: 21.2 years
  male: 21 years
  female: 21.4 years (2008 est.)

Brazil
  total: 28.3 years
  male: 27.5 years
  female: 29 years (2008 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  total: 32 years
  male: 32.1 years
  female: 31.9 years (2008 est.)

Brunei
  total: 27.5 years
  male: 27.5 years
  female: 27.5 years (2008 est.)

Bulgaria
  total: 41.1 years
  male: 38.9 years
  female: 43.4 years (2008 est.)

Burkina Faso
  total: 16.7 years
  male: 16.5 years
  female: 16.9 years (2008 est.)

Burma
  total: 27.8 years
  male: 27.2 years
  female: 28.4 years (2008 est.)

Burundi
  total: 16.7 years
  male: 16.4 years
  female: 17 years (2008 est.)

Cambodia
  total: 21.7 years
  male: 21 years
  female: 22.5 years (2008 est.)

Cameroon
  total: 19 years
  male: 18.9 years
  female: 19.2 years (2008 est.)

Canada
  total: 40.1 years
  male: 39 years
  female: 41.2 years (2008 est.)

Cape Verde
  total: 20.6 years
  male: 19.9 years
  female: 21.5 years (2008 est.)

Cayman Islands
  total: 37.8 years
  male: 37.4 years
  female: 38.2 years (2008 est.)

Central African Republic
  total: 18.7 years
  male: 18.4 years
  female: 19 years (2008 est.)

Chad
  total: 16.4 years
  male: 15.2 years
  female: 17.5 years (2008 est.)

Chile
  total: 31.1 years
  male: 30.1 years
  female: 32.1 years (2008 est.)

China
  total: 33.6 years
  male: 33.1 years
  female: 34.2 years (2008 est.)

Colombia
  total: 26.8 years
  male: 25.9 years
  female: 27.8 years (2008 est.)

Comoros
  total: 18.7 years
  male: 18.5 years
  female: 19 years (2008 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  total: 16.3 years
  male: 16.1 years
  female: 16.5 years (2008 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  total: 16.7 years
  male: 16.5 years
  female: 17 years (2008 est.)

Cook Islands
  total: 29.8 years
  male: 29 years
  female: 30.4 years (2001 census)

Costa Rica
  total: 27.1 years
  male: 26.7 years
  female: 27.6 years (2008 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  total: 19 years
  male: 19.2 years
  female: 18.9 years (2008 est.)

Croatia
  total: 40.8 years
  male: 38.9 years
  female: 42.6 years (2008 est.)

Cuba
  total: 36.8 years
  male: 36.1 years
  female: 37.5 years (2008 est.)

Cyprus
  total: 35.3 years
  male: 34.3 years
  female: 36.4 years (2008 est.)

Czech Republic
  total: 39.8 years
  male: 38.2 years
  female: 41.6 years (2008 est.)

Denmark
  total: 40.3 years
  male: 39.4 years
  female: 41.2 years (2008 est.)

Djibouti
  total: 18.2 years
  male: 18.6 years
  female: 17.7 years (2008 est.)

Dominica
  total: 29.4 years
  male: 29 years
  female: 29.8 years (2008 est.)

Dominican Republic
  total: 24.7 years
  male: 24.6 years
  female: 24.8 years (2008 est.)

Ecuador
  total: 24.2 years
  male: 23.7 years
  female: 24.7 years (2008 est.)

Egypt
  total: 24.5 years
  male: 24.1 years
  female: 24.9 years (2008 est.)

El Salvador
  total: 22.2 years
  male: 21.1 years
  female: 23.4 years (2008 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  total: 18.9 years
  male: 18.3 years
  female: 19.5 years (2008 est.)

Eritrea
  total: 18.3 years
  male: 17.9 years
  female: 18.7 years (2008 est.)

Estonia
  total: 39.6 years
  male: 36.2 years
  female: 43.2 years (2008 est.)

Ethiopia
  total: 16.9 years
  male: 16.6 years
  female: 17.2 years (2008 est.)

European Union
  note - see individual country entries of member states

Faroe Islands
  total: 36.7 years
  male: 36 years
  female: 37.5 years (2008 est.)

Fiji
  total: 25.2 years
  male: 24.7 years
  female: 25.7 years (2008 est.)

Finland
  total: 41.8 years
  male: 40.3 years
  female: 43.4 years (2008 est.)

France
  total: 39.2 years
  male: 37.7 years
  female: 40.7 years (2008 est.)

French Polynesia
  total: 28.7 years
  male: 29 years
  female: 28.4 years (2008 est.)

Gabon
  total: 18.6 years
  male: 18.4 years
  female: 18.9 years (2008 est.)

Gambia, The
  total: 17.9 years
  male: 17.7 years
  female: 18 years (2008 est.)

Gaza Strip
  total: 17.2 years
  male: 17 years
  female: 17.4 years (2008 est.)

Georgia
  total: 38.3 years
  male: 35.8 years
  female: 40.7 years (2008 est.)

Germany
  total: 43.4 years
  male: 42.2 years
  female: 44.7 years (2008 est.)

Ghana
  total: 20.4 years
  male: 20.2 years
  female: 20.7 years (2008 est.)

Gibraltar
  total: 40.3 years
  male: 39.8 years
  female: 40.7 years (2008 est.)

Greece
  total: 41.5 years
  male: 40.4 years
  female: 42.6 years (2008 est.)

Greenland
  total: 33.5 years
  male: 34.9 years
  female: 31.8 years (2008 est.)

Grenada
  total: 22.4 years
  male: 22.9 years
  female: 21.9 years (2008 est.)

Guam
  total: 28.9 years
  male: 28.7 years
  female: 29.2 years (2008 est.)

Guatemala
  total: 19.2 years
  male: 18.6 years
  female: 19.7 years (2008 est.)

Guernsey
  total: 42.1 years
  male: 41 years
  female: 43 years (2008 est.)

Guinea
  total: 18.4 years
  male: 18.2 years
  female: 18.7 years (2008 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  total: 19.2 years
  male: 18.6 years
  female: 19.8 years (2008 est.)

Guyana
  total: 28.2 years
  male: 27.7 years
  female: 28.7 years (2008 est.)

Haiti
  total: 18.5 years
  male: 18.1 years
  female: 19 years (2008 est.)

Honduras
  total: 20 years
  male: 19.7 years
  female: 20.4 years (2008 est.)

Hong Kong
  total: 41.7 years
  male: 41.4 years
  female: 42 years (2008 est.)

Hungary
  total: 39.1 years
  male: 36.8 years
  female: 41.8 years (2008 est.)

Iceland
  total: 34.8 years
  male: 34.4 years
  female: 35.3 years (2008 est.)

India
  total: 25.1 years
  male: 24.7 years
  female: 25.5 years (2008 est.)

Indonesia
  total: 27.2 years
  male: 26.7 years
  female: 27.7 years (2008 est.)

Iran
  total: 26.4 years
  male: 26.2 years
  female: 26.7 years (2008 est.)

Iraq
  total: 20.2 years
  male: 20.1 years
  female: 20.2 years (2008 est.)

Ireland
  total: 34.6 years
  male: 33.9 years
  female: 35.4 years (2008 est.)

Isle of Man
  total: 40 years
  male: 38.8 years
  female: 41.3 years (2008 est.)

Israel
  total: 28.9 years
  male: 28.2 years
  female: 29.7 years (2008 est.)

Italy
  total: 42.9 years
  male: 41.4 years
  female: 44.4 years (2008 est.)

Jamaica
  total: 23.4 years
  male: 22.9 years
  female: 24 years (2008 est.)

Japan
  total: 43.8 years
  male: 42.1 years
  female: 45.7 years (2008 est.)

Jersey
  total: 42.3 years
  male: 41.6 years
  female: 43.1 years (2008 est.)

Jordan
  total: 23.9 years
  male: 24.6 years
  female: 23.2 years (2008 est.)

Kazakhstan
  total: 29.3 years
  male: 27.8 years
  female: 31.1 years (2008 est.)

Kenya
  total: 18.6 years
  male: 18.5 years
  female: 18.8 years (2008 est.)

Kiribati
  total: 20.6 years
  male: 20.1 years
  female: 21.1 years (2008 est.)

Korea, North
  total: 32.7 years
  male: 31.2 years
  female: 34.2 years (2008 est.)

Korea, South
  total: 36.7 years
  male: 35.5 years
  female: 37.9 years (2008 est.)

Kuwait
  total: 26.1 years
  male: 28 years
  female: 22.6 years (2008 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  total: 24.2 years
  male: 23.3 years
  female: 25 years (2008 est.)

Laos
  total: 19.2 years
  male: 18.9 years
  female: 19.5 years (2008 est.)

Latvia
  total: 39.9 years
  male: 36.9 years
  female: 43 years (2008 est.)

Lebanon
  total: 28.8 years
  male: 27.6 years
  female: 30 years (2008 est.)

Lesotho
  total: 21.2 years
  male: 20.6 years
  female: 21.8 years (2008 est.)

Liberia
  total: 18 years
  male: 17.8 years
  female: 18.2 years (2008 est.)

Libya
  total: 23.6 years
  male: 23.7 years
  female: 23.5 years (2008 est.)

Liechtenstein
  total: 40.5 years
  male: 40 years
  female: 41 years (2008 est.)

Lithuania
  total: 39 years
  male: 36.4 years
  female: 41.6 years (2008 est.)

Luxembourg
  total: 39 years
  male: 38 years
  female: 40 years (2008 est.)

Macau
  total: 35 years
  male: 35.6 years
  female: 34.5 years (2008 est.)

Macedonia
  total: 34.8 years
  male: 33.8 years
  female: 35.8 years (2008 est.)

Madagascar
  total: 17.9 years
  male: 17.7 years
  female: 18.1 years (2008 est.)

Malawi
  total: 16.8 years
  male: 16.7 years
  female: 16.8 years (2008 est.)

Malaysia
  total: 24.6 years
  male: 24 years
  female: 25.3 years (2008 est.)

Maldives
  total: 25.1 years
  male: 26 years
  female: 23.7 years (2008 est.)

Mali
  total: 15.8 years
  male: 15.4 years
  female: 16.2 years (2008 est.)

Malta
  total: 39.2 years
  male: 37.9 years
  female: 40.6 years (2008 est.)

Marshall Islands
  total: 21 years
  male: 21 years
  female: 20.9 years (2008 est.)

Mauritania
  total: 17.2 years
  male: 16.9 years
  female: 17.4 years (2008 est.)

Mauritius
  total: 31.5 years
  male: 30.6 years
  female: 32.3 years (2008 est.)

Mayotte
  total: 17.2 years
  male: 18.1 years
  female: 16.2 years (2008 est.)

Mexico
  total: 26 years
  male: 24.9 years
  female: 27 years (2008 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  total: 21.6 years
  male: 21.1 years
  female: 22.1 years (2008 est.)

Moldova
  total: 34.3 years
  male: 32.4 years
  female: 36.4 years (2008 est.)

Monaco
  total: 45.5 years
  male: 43.5 years
  female: 47.5 years (2008 est.)

Mongolia
  total: 24.9 years
  male: 24.6 years
  female: 25.3 years (2008 est.)

Montserrat
  total: 28.1 years
  male: 28 years
  female: 28.1 years (2008 est.)

Morocco
  total: 24.7 years
  male: 24.1 years
  female: 25.2 years (2008 est.)

Mozambique
  total: 17.4 years
  male: 17 years
  female: 17.8 years (2008 est.)

Namibia
  total: 20.7 years
  male: 20.6 years
  female: 20.8 years (2008 est.)

Nauru
  total: 21.3 years
  male: 20.7 years
  female: 21.9 years (2008 est.)

Nepal
  total: 20.7 years
  male: 20.5 years
  female: 20.8 years (2008 est.)

Netherlands
  total: 40 years
  male: 39.2 years
  female: 40.9 years (2008 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  total: 33.4 years
  male: 31.6 years
  female: 35.2 years (2008 est.)

New Caledonia
  total: 28.4 years
  male: 28 years
  female: 28.8 years (2008 est.)

New Zealand
  total: 36.3 years
  male: 35.6 years
  female: 37.1 years (2008 est.)

Nicaragua
  total: 21.7 years
  male: 21.3 years
  female: 22.1 years (2008 est.)

Niger
  total: 16.4 years
  male: 16.5 years
  female: 16.4 years (2008 est.)

Nigeria
  total: 18.9 years
  male: 18.8 years
  female: 19 years (2008 est.)

Northern Mariana Islands
  total: 29.9 years
  male: 32 years
  female: 28.9 years (2008 est.)

Norway
  total: 39 years
  male: 38.2 years
  female: 39.9 years (2008 est.)

Oman
  total: 18.9 years
  male: 21.3 years
  female: 16.6 years (2008 est.)

Pakistan
  total: 20.5 years
  male: 20.3 years
  female: 20.6 years (2008 est.)

Palau
  total: 32.3 years
  male: 33.3 years
  female: 31.3 years (2008 est.)

Panama
  total: 26.7 years
  male: 26.3 years
  female: 27.1 years (2008 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  total: 21.5 years
  male: 21.6 years
  female: 21.4 years (2008 est.)

Paraguay
  total: 21.7 years
  male: 21.5 years
  female: 22 years (2008 est.)

Peru
  total: 25.8 years
  male: 25.5 years
  female: 26.1 years (2008 est.)

Philippines
  total: 22.3 years
  male: 21.8 years
  female: 22.8 years (2008 est.)

Poland
  total: 37.6 years
  male: 35.8 years
  female: 39.5 years (2008 est.)

Portugal
  total: 39.1 years
  male: 37 years
  female: 41.3 years (2008 est.)

Puerto Rico
  total: 35.6 years
  male: 33.8 years
  female: 37.3 years (2008 est.)

Qatar
  total: 30.7 years
  male: 32.8 years
  female: 25.4 years (2008 est.)

Romania
  total: 37.3 years
  male: 35.9 years
  female: 38.7 years (2008 est.)

Russia
  total: 38.3 years
  male: 35.1 years
  female: 41.4 years (2008 est.)

Rwanda
  total: 18.7 years
  male: 18.5 years
  female: 18.9 years (2008 est.)

Saint Helena
  total: 37.1 years
  male: 37.2 years
  female: 37 years (2008 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  total: 28.4 years
  male: 27.7 years
  female: 29.1 years (2008 est.)

Saint Lucia
  total: 29.2 years
  male: 28.2 years
  female: 30.2 years (2008 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  total: 34.9 years
  male: 34.3 years
  female: 35.3 years (2008 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  total: 28 years
  male: 27.8 years
  female: 28.1 years (2008 est.)

Samoa
  total: 20.6 years
  male: 20.8 years
  female: 20.4 years (2008 est.)

San Marino
  total: 41.2 years
  male: 40.9 years
  female: 41.6 years (2008 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe
  total: 16.3 years
  male: 15.8 years
  female: 16.9 years (2008 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  total: 21.5 years
  male: 22.9 years
  female: 19.8 years (2008 est.)

Senegal
  total: 18.8 years
  male: 18.6 years
  female: 19 years (2008 est.)

Serbia
  total: 37.5 years
  male: 36.1 years
  female: 39 years (2008 est.)

Seychelles
  total: 28.7 years
  male: 27.6 years
  female: 29.8 years (2008 est.)

Sierra Leone
  total: 17.5 years
  male: 17.2 years
  female: 17.8 years (2008 est.)

Singapore
  total: 38.4 years
  male: 38 years
  female: 38.8 years (2008 est.)

Slovakia
  total: 36.5 years
  male: 34.8 years
  female: 38.2 years (2008 est.)

Slovenia
  total: 41.4 years
  male: 39.8 years
  female: 42.9 years (2008 est.)

Solomon Islands
  total: 19.4 years
  male: 19.3 years
  female: 19.6 years (2008 est.)

Somalia
  total: 17.5 years
  male: 17.4 years
  female: 17.6 years (2008 est.)

South Africa
  total: 24.2 years
  male: 23.8 years
  female: 24.6 years (2008 est.)

Spain
  total: 40.7 years
  male: 39.3 years
  female: 42.1 years (2008 est.)

Sri Lanka
  total: 30.4 years
  male: 29.5 years
  female: 31.4 years (2008 est.)

Sudan
  total: 18.9 years
  male: 18.7 years
  female: 19.1 years (2008 est.)

Suriname
  total: 27.5 years
  male: 27.1 years
  female: 27.9 years (2008 est.)

Swaziland
  total: 18.7 years
  male: 18 years
  female: 19.4 years (2008 est.)

Sweden
  total: 41.3 years
  male: 40.2 years
  female: 42.4 years (2008 est.)

Switzerland
  total: 40.7 years
  male: 39.6 years
  female: 41.7 years (2008 est.)

Syria
  total: 21.4 years
  male: 21.3 years
  female: 21.5 years (2008 est.)

Taiwan
  total: 36 years
  male: 35.5 years
  female: 36.6 years (2008 est.)

Tajikistan
  total: 21.6 years
  male: 21.2 years
  female: 22.1 years (2008 est.)

Tanzania
  total: 17.8 years
  male: 17.6 years
  female: 18.1 years (2008 est.)

Thailand
  total: 32.8 years
  male: 32 years
  female: 33.7 years (2008 est.)

Timor-Leste
  total: 21.5 years
  male: 21.5 years
  female: 21.5 years (2008 est.)

Togo
  total: 18.6 years
  male: 18.2 years
  female: 19 years (2008 est.)

Tonga
  total: 21.8 years
  male: 21.3 years
  female: 22.3 years (2008 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  total: 32.3 years
  male: 31.9 years
  female: 32.8 years (2008 est.)

Tunisia
  total: 28.8 years
  male: 28.2 years
  female: 29.3 years (2008 est.)

Turkey
  total: 29 years
  male: 28.8 years
  female: 29.2 years (2008 est.)

Turkmenistan
  total: 22.6 years
  male: 22 years
  female: 23.1 years (2008 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  total: 27.8 years
  male: 28.5 years
  female: 27 years (2008 est.)

Tuvalu
  total: 25.2 years
  male: 24.2 years
  female: 26.4 years (2008 est.)

Uganda
  total: 15 years
  male: 14.9 years
  female: 15.1 years (2008 est.)

Ukraine
  total: 39.4 years
  male: 36.1 years
  female: 42.5 years (2008 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  total: 30.1 years
  male: 32 years
  female: 24.6 years (2008 est.)

United Kingdom
  total: 39.9 years
  male: 38.8 years
  female: 41 years (2008 est.)

United States
  total: 36.7 years
  male: 35.4 years
  female: 38.1 years (2008 est.)

Uruguay
  total: 33.2 years
  male: 31.8 years
  female: 34.6 years (2008 est.)

Uzbekistan
  total: 24.3 years
  male: 23.8 years
  female: 24.8 years (2008 est.)

Vanuatu
  total: 23.8 years
  male: 23.8 years
  female: 23.8 years (2008 est.)

Venezuela
  total: 25.2 years
  male: 24.6 years
  female: 25.8 years (2008 est.)

Vietnam
  total: 26.9 years
  male: 25.8 years
  female: 28 years (2008 est.)

Virgin Islands
  total: 38.5 years
  male: 38 years
  female: 39 years (2008 est.)

West Bank
  total: 20.2 years
  male: 20 years
  female: 20.4 years (2008 est.)

World
  total:
  male: 27.4 years
  female: 28.7 years (2008 est.)

Yemen
  total: 16.7 years
  male: 16.7 years
  female: 16.8 years (2008 est.)

Zambia
  total: 16.9 years
  male: 16.8 years
  female: 17.1 years (2008 est.)

Zimbabwe
  total: 17.6 years
  male: 16.4 years
  female: 18.8 years (2008 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2178  Oil - proved reserves (bbl)


Afghanistan
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Albania
  199.1 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Algeria
  12.2 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

American Samoa
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Angola
  9.035 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Argentina
  2.587 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Armenia
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Aruba
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Australia
  1.5 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Austria
  50 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Azerbaijan
  7 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Bahamas, The
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Bahrain
  124.6 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Bangladesh
  28 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Barbados
  2.2 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Belarus
  198 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Belgium
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Belize
  6.7 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Benin
  8 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Bermuda
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Bhutan
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Bolivia
  465 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Botswana
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Brazil
  12.18 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Brunei
  1.1 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Bulgaria
  15 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Burkina Faso
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Burma
  50 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Burundi
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Cambodia
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Cameroon
  200 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Canada
  178.6 billion bbl
  note: includes oil sands (1 January 2008 est.)

Cape Verde
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Cayman Islands
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Central African Republic
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Chad
  1.5 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Chile
  150 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

China
  16 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Colombia
  1.506 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Comoros
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  180 million bbl (1 January 2008
  est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  1.6 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Cook Islands
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Costa Rica
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  100 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Croatia
  79.15 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Cuba
  124 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Cyprus
  NA

Czech Republic
  15 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Denmark
  1.188 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Djibouti
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Dominica
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Dominican Republic
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Ecuador
  4.517 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Egypt
  3.7 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

El Salvador
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  1.1 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Eritrea
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Estonia
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Ethiopia
  428,000 bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

European Union
  6.144 billion bbl (1 January 2008)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Faroe Islands
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Fiji
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Finland
  NA bbl

France
  119.8 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

French Polynesia
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Gabon
  2 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Gambia, The
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Georgia
  35 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Germany
  367 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Ghana
  15 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Gibraltar
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Greece
  10 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Greenland
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Grenada
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Guam
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Guatemala
  83.07 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Guinea
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Guyana
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Haiti
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Honduras
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Hong Kong
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Hungary
  20.18 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Iceland
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

India
  5.625 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Indonesia
  4.37 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Iran
  138.4 billion bbl based on Iranian claims (1 January 2008 est.)

Iraq
  115 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Ireland
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Israel
  1.94 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Italy
  406.5 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Jamaica
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Japan
  44.12 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Jordan
  1 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Kazakhstan
  30 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Kenya
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Kiribati
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Korea, North
  NA bbl

Korea, South
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Kosovo
  NA bbl

Kuwait
  104 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  40 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Laos
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Latvia
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Lebanon
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Lesotho
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Liberia
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Libya
  41.46 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Lithuania
  12 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Luxembourg
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Macau
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Macedonia
  0 bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Madagascar
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Malawi
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Malaysia
  4 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Maldives
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Mali
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Malta
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Mauritania
  100 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Mauritius
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Mexico
  11.65 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Moldova
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Mongolia
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Montenegro
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Montserrat
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Morocco
  836,000 bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Mozambique
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Namibia
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Nauru
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Nepal
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Netherlands
  100 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

New Caledonia
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

New Zealand
  55 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Nicaragua
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Niger
  NA bbl

Nigeria
  36.22 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Niue
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Norway
  6.865 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Oman
  5.5 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Pakistan
  289.2 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Panama
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  88 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Paraguay
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Peru
  382.9 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Philippines
  138.5 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Poland
  96.38 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Portugal
  NA bbl

Puerto Rico
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Qatar
  15.21 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Romania
  600 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Russia
  60 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Rwanda
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Saint Helena
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Saint Lucia
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Samoa
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  266.8 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Senegal
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Serbia
  77.5 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Seychelles
  0 bbl (1 January 2006)

Sierra Leone
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Singapore
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Slovakia
  9 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Slovenia
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Solomon Islands
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Somalia
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

South Africa
  15 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Spain
  150 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Sri Lanka
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Sudan
  5 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Suriname
  88 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Swaziland
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Sweden
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Switzerland
  NA

Syria
  2.5 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Taiwan
  2.38 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Tajikistan
  12 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Tanzania
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Thailand
  460 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Timor-Leste
  NA

Togo
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Tonga
  0 bbl (1 January 2007 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  728.3 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Tunisia
  400 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Turkey
  300 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Turkmenistan
  600 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Uganda
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Ukraine
  395 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  97.8 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

United Kingdom
  3.6 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

United States
  20.97 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Uruguay
  NA

Uzbekistan
  594 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Vanuatu
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

Venezuela
  87.04 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Vietnam
  600 million bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Virgin Islands
  NA

Western Sahara
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

World
  1.332 trillion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Yemen
  3 billion bbl (1 January 2008 est.)

Zambia
  NA

Zimbabwe
  0 bbl (1 January 2006 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2179  Natural gas - proved reserves (cu m)


Afghanistan
  49.55 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Albania
  849.5 million cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Algeria
  4.502 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

American Samoa
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Angola
  269.8 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Argentina
  446 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Armenia
  0 cu m (1 January 2006)

Aruba
  0 cu m (1 January 2006)

Australia
  849.5 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Austria
  16.14 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Azerbaijan
  849.5 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Bahamas, The
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Bahrain
  92.03 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Bangladesh
  141.6 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Barbados
  141.6 million cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Belarus
  2.832 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Belgium
  0 cu m (1 January 2006)

Belize
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Benin
  1.133 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Bermuda
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Bhutan
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Bolivia
  750.4 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  0 cu m (1 January 2006)

Botswana
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Brazil
  347.7 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Brunei
  390.8 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Bulgaria
  5.663 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Burkina Faso
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Burma
  283.2 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Burundi
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Cambodia
  NA

Cameroon
  135.1 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Canada
  1.648 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Cape Verde
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Cayman Islands
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Central African Republic
  0 cu m (1 January 2006)

Chad
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Chile
  97.97 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

China
  2.265 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Colombia
  122.9 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Comoros
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  991.1 million cu m (1 January 2008
  est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  90.61 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Cook Islands
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Costa Rica
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  28.32 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Croatia
  28.54 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Cuba
  70.79 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Cyprus
  0 cu m (1 January 2006)

Czech Republic
  3.964 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Denmark
  70.51 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Djibouti
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Dominica
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Dominican Republic
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Ecuador
  9.369 billion cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Egypt
  1.656 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

El Salvador
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  36.81 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Eritrea
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Estonia
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Ethiopia
  24.92 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

European Union
  2.476 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Faroe Islands
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Fiji
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Finland
  0 cu m (1 January 2006)

France
  7.277 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

French Polynesia
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Gabon
  28.32 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Gambia, The
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Georgia
  8.495 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Germany
  254.8 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Ghana
  22.65 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Gibraltar
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Greece
  1.982 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Greenland
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Grenada
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Guam
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Guatemala
  2.96 billion cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Guinea
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Guyana
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Haiti
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Honduras
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Hong Kong
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Hungary
  8.098 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Iceland
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

India
  1.075 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Indonesia
  2.659 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Iran
  26.85 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Iraq
  3.17 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Ireland
  9.911 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Israel
  30.44 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Italy
  94.15 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Jamaica
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Japan
  20.9 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Jordan
  6.031 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Kazakhstan
  2.832 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Kenya
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Kiribati
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Korea, North
  0 cu m (1 January 2007)

Korea, South
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Kosovo
  NA cu m

Kuwait
  1.586 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  5.663 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Laos
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Lebanon
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Lesotho
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Liberia
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Libya
  1.419 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Lithuania
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Luxembourg
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Macau
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Macedonia
  0 cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Madagascar
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Malawi
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Malaysia
  2.35 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Maldives
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Mali
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Malta
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Mauritania
  28.32 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Mauritius
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Mexico
  392.2 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Moldova
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Mongolia
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Montserrat
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Morocco
  1.557 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Mozambique
  127.4 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Namibia
  62.29 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Nauru
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Nepal
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Netherlands
  1.416 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

New Caledonia
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

New Zealand
  29.67 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Nicaragua
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Niger
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Nigeria
  5.21 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Niue
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Norway
  2.241 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Oman
  849.5 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Pakistan
  792.8 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Panama
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  226.5 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Paraguay
  0 cu m (1 January 2007 est.)

Peru
  337.8 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Philippines
  98.54 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Poland
  164.8 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Portugal
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Puerto Rico
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Qatar
  25.63 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Romania
  63 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Russia
  47.57 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Rwanda
  56.63 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Saint Helena
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Saint Lucia
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Samoa
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  7.167 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Senegal
  NA cu m

Serbia
  48.14 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Seychelles
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Sierra Leone
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Singapore
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Slovakia
  14.16 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Slovenia
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Solomon Islands
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Somalia
  5.663 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

South Africa
  27.16 million cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Spain
  2.548 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Sri Lanka
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Sudan
  84.95 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Suriname
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Swaziland
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Sweden
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Switzerland
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Syria
  240.7 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Taiwan
  6.229 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Tajikistan
  5.663 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Tanzania
  6.513 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Thailand
  331.2 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Timor-Leste
  200 billion cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Togo
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Tonga
  0 cu m (1 January 2007 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  531.5 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Tunisia
  65.13 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Turkey
  8.495 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Turkmenistan
  2.832 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Uganda
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Ukraine
  1.104 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  6.071 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

United Kingdom
  412 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

United States
  5.977 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Uruguay
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Uzbekistan
  1.841 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Vanuatu
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Venezuela
  4.708 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Vietnam
  192.5 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Virgin Islands
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Western Sahara
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

World
  175.4 trillion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Yemen
  478.5 billion cu m (1 January 2008 est.)

Zambia
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

Zimbabwe
  0 cu m (1 January 2006 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2180  Natural gas - production (cu m)


Afghanistan
  20 million cu m (2006 est.)

Albania
  30 million cu m (2006 est.)

Algeria
  85.7 billion cu m (2007 est.)

American Samoa
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Angola
  680 million cu m (2006 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Argentina
  44.8 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Armenia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Aruba
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Australia
  43.62 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Austria
  1.848 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Azerbaijan
  9.77 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Bahamas, The
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Bahrain
  11.33 billion cu m (2006 est.)

Bangladesh
  15.7 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Barbados
  29.17 million cu m (2006 est.)

Belarus
  164 million cu m (2007 est.)

Belgium
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Belize
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Benin
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Bermuda
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Bhutan
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Bolivia
  14.7 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Botswana
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Brazil
  9.8 billion cu m (2007 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Brunei
  13.8 billion cu m (2006 est.)

Bulgaria
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Burkina Faso
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Burma
  12.6 billion cu m (2006 est.)

Burundi
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Cambodia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Cameroon
  20 million cu m (2006 est.)

Canada
  187 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Cape Verde
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Cayman Islands
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Central African Republic
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Chad
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Chile
  1.8 billion cu m (2007 est.)

China
  69.27 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Colombia
  7.22 billion cu m (2006 est.)

Comoros
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  180 million cu m (2006 est.)

Cook Islands
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Costa Rica
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  1.3 billion cu m (2006 est.)

Croatia
  1.58 billion cu m (2006 est.)

Cuba
  1.058 billion cu m (2006)

Cyprus
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Czech Republic
  172 million cu m (2007 est.)

Denmark
  9.223 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Djibouti
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Dominica
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Dominican Republic
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Ecuador
  280 million cu m (2006 est.)

Egypt
  47.5 billion cu m (2007 est.)

El Salvador
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  1.3 billion cu m (2006 est.)

Eritrea
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Estonia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Ethiopia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

European Union
  197.8 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Faroe Islands
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Fiji
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Finland
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

France
  953 million cu m (2007 est.)

French Polynesia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Gabon
  100 million cu m (2006 est.)

Gambia, The
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Georgia
  10 million cu m (2007 est.)

Germany
  17.96 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Ghana
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Gibraltar
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Greece
  24 million cu m (2007 est.)

Greenland
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Grenada
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Guam
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Guatemala
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Guinea
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Guyana
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Haiti
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Honduras
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Hong Kong
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Hungary
  2.545 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Iceland
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

India
  31.7 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Indonesia
  56 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Iran
  111.9 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Iraq
  3.5 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Ireland
  457 million cu m (2007 est.)

Israel
  970 million cu m (2006 est.)

Italy
  9.706 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Jamaica
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Japan
  3.729 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Jordan
  320 million cu m (2006 est.)

Kazakhstan
  27.88 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Kenya
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Kiribati
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Korea, North
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Korea, South
  390 million cu m (2007 est.)

Kosovo
  0 cu m (2007)

Kuwait
  12.5 billion cu m (2006 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  18 million cu m (2007 est.)

Laos
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Latvia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Lebanon
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Lesotho
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Liberia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Libya
  14.8 billion cu m (2006 est.)

Lithuania
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Luxembourg
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Macau
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Macedonia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Madagascar
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Malawi
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Malaysia
  64.5 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Maldives
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Mali
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Malta
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Mauritania
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Mauritius
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Mexico
  55.98 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Moldova
  50 million cu m (2006 est.)

Mongolia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Montserrat
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Morocco
  60 million cu m (2006 est.)

Mozambique
  1.65 billion cu m (2006 est.)

Namibia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Nauru
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Nepal
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Netherlands
  76.33 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

New Caledonia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

New Zealand
  4.573 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Nicaragua
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Niger
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Nigeria
  34.1 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Niue
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Norway
  92.6 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Oman
  24.1 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Pakistan
  30.8 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Panama
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  140 million cu m (2006 est.)

Paraguay
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Peru
  1.78 billion cu m (2006 est.)

Philippines
  2.2 billion cu m (2006 est.)

Poland
  6.025 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Portugal
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Puerto Rico
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Qatar
  59.8 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Romania
  12.5 billion cu m (2006 est.)

Russia
  656.2 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Rwanda
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Saint Helena
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Saint Lucia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Samoa
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  75.9 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Senegal
  50 million cu m (2006 est.)

Serbia
  650 million cu m (2005 est.)

Seychelles
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Sierra Leone
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Singapore
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Slovakia
  128 million cu m (2007 est.)

Slovenia
  4 million cu m (2006 est.)

Solomon Islands
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Somalia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

South Africa
  2.9 billion cu m (2006 est.)

Spain
  88 million cu m (2007 est.)

Sri Lanka
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Sudan
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Suriname
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Swaziland
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Sweden
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Switzerland
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Syria
  7.8 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Taiwan
  400 million cu m (2007 est.)

Tajikistan
  32 million cu m (2007 est.)

Tanzania
  146 million cu m (2006 est.)

Thailand
  25.4 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Timor-Leste
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Togo
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Tonga
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  39 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Tunisia
  2.55 billion cu m (2006 est.)

Turkey
  893 million cu m (2007 est.)

Turkmenistan
  68.88 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Uganda
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Ukraine
  19.5 billion cu m (2007 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  48.79 billion cu m (2006 est.)

United Kingdom
  72.3 billion cu m (2007 est.)

United States
  545.9 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Uruguay
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Uzbekistan
  65.19 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Vanuatu
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Venezuela
  26.5 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Vietnam
  6.86 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Virgin Islands
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Western Sahara
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

World
  3.021 trillion cu m (2007 est.)

Yemen
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Zambia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Zimbabwe
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2181  Natural gas - consumption (cu m)


Afghanistan
  20 million cu m (2006 est.)

Albania
  30 million cu m (2006 est.)

Algeria
  26.3 billion cu m (2007 est.)

American Samoa
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Angola
  680 million cu m (2006 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Argentina
  44.1 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Armenia
  2.05 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Aruba
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Australia
  29.4 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Austria
  8.436 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Azerbaijan
  9.77 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Bahamas, The
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Bahrain
  11.33 billion cu m (2006 est.)

Bangladesh
  15.7 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Barbados
  29.17 million cu m (2006 est.)

Belarus
  21.76 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Belgium
  17.39 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Belize
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Benin
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Bermuda
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Bhutan
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Bolivia
  3 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  400 million cu m (2006 est.)

Botswana
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Brazil
  19.8 billion cu m (2007 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Brunei
  3.99 billion cu m (2006 est.)

Bulgaria
  5.6 billion cu m (2006 est.)

Burkina Faso
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Burma
  3.62 billion cu m (2006 est.)

Burundi
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Cambodia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Cameroon
  20 million cu m (2006 est.)

Canada
  92.9 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Cape Verde
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Cayman Islands
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Central African Republic
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Chad
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Chile
  4.2 billion cu m (2007 est.)

China
  70.51 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Colombia
  7.22 billion cu m (2006 est.)

Comoros
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  180 million cu m (2006 est.)

Cook Islands
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Costa Rica
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  1.3 billion cu m (2006 est.)

Croatia
  2.73 billion cu m (2006 est.)

Cuba
  1.058 billion cu m (2006)

Cyprus
  NA

Czech Republic
  8.622 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Denmark
  4.555 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Djibouti
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Dominica
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Dominican Republic
  250 million cu m (2006 est.)

Ecuador
  280 million cu m (2006 est.)

Egypt
  31.8 billion cu m (2007 est.)

El Salvador
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  1.3 billion cu m (2006 est.)

Eritrea
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Estonia
  1.48 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Ethiopia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

European Union
  500.1 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Faroe Islands
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Fiji
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Finland
  4.581 billion cu m (2007 est.)

France
  42.69 billion cu m (2007 est.)

French Polynesia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Gabon
  100 million cu m (2006 est.)

Gambia, The
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Georgia
  1.49 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Germany
  97.44 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Ghana
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Gibraltar
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Greece
  4.069 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Greenland
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Grenada
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Guam
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Guatemala
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Guinea
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Guyana
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Haiti
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Honduras
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Hong Kong
  2.69 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Hungary
  13.36 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Iceland
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

India
  41.7 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Indonesia
  23.4 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Iran
  111.8 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Iraq
  1.8 billion cu m
  note: 1.48 billion cu m were flared (2006 est.)

Ireland
  4.984 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Israel
  970 million cu m (2006 est.)

Italy
  84.89 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Jamaica
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Japan
  100.3 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Jordan
  2.25 billion cu m (2006 est.)

Kazakhstan
  30.58 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Kenya
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Kiribati
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Korea, North
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Korea, South
  34.83 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Kosovo
  0 cu m (2007)

Kuwait
  12.5 billion cu m (2006 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  768 million cu m (2007 est.)

Laos
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Latvia
  2.04 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Lebanon
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Lesotho
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Liberia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Libya
  6.39 billion cu m (2006 est.)

Lithuania
  3.44 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Luxembourg
  1.329 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Macau
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Macedonia
  100 million cu m (2006 est.)

Madagascar
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Malawi
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Malaysia
  32.9 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Maldives
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Mali
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Malta
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Mauritania
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Mauritius
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Mexico
  68.29 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Moldova
  2.44 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Mongolia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Montenegro
  NA cu m

Montserrat
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Morocco
  60 million cu m (2006 est.)

Mozambique
  1.45 billion cu m (2006 est.)

Namibia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Nauru
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Nepal
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Netherlands
  46.42 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

New Caledonia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

New Zealand
  4.572 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Nicaragua
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Niger
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Nigeria
  12.9 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Niue
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Norway
  6.5 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Oman
  11 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Pakistan
  30.8 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Panama
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  140 million cu m (2006 est.)

Paraguay
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Peru
  1.78 billion cu m (2006 est.)

Philippines
  2.2 billion cu m (2006 est.)

Poland
  16.38 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Portugal
  4.112 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Puerto Rico
  736.2 million cu m (2007 est.)

Qatar
  20.5 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Romania
  17.09 billion cu m (2007)

Russia
  610 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Rwanda
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Saint Helena
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Saint Lucia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Samoa
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  75.9 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Senegal
  50 million cu m (2006 est.)

Serbia
  2.55 billion cu m (2005 est.)

Seychelles
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Sierra Leone
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Singapore
  6.5 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Slovakia
  6.216 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Slovenia
  1.105 billion cu m (2006 est.)

Solomon Islands
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Somalia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

South Africa
  3.1 billion cu m (2006 est.)

Spain
  34.43 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Sri Lanka
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Sudan
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Suriname
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Swaziland
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Sweden
  1.006 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Switzerland
  3.232 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Syria
  4.4 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Taiwan
  11.3 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Tajikistan
  842 million cu m (2007 est.)

Tanzania
  146 million cu m (2006 est.)

Thailand
  35.3 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Timor-Leste
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Togo
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Tonga
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  20.8 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Tunisia
  3.85 billion cu m (2006 est.)

Turkey
  36.6 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Turkmenistan
  19.48 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Uganda
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Ukraine
  84.9 billion cu m (2007 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  43.11 billion cu m (2006 est.)

United Kingdom
  91.1 billion cu m (2007 est.)

United States
  652.9 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Uruguay
  102.8 million cu m (2007 est.)

Uzbekistan
  51.18 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Vanuatu
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Venezuela
  26.5 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Vietnam
  6.86 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Virgin Islands
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Western Sahara
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

World
  3.198 trillion cu m (2007 est.)

Yemen
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Zambia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Zimbabwe
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2182  Natural gas - imports (cu m)


Afghanistan
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Albania
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Algeria
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

American Samoa
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Angola
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Argentina
  1.9 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Armenia
  2.05 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Aruba
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Australia
  5.689 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Austria
  9.658 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Azerbaijan
  0 cu m (2005)

Bahamas, The
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Bahrain
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Bangladesh
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Barbados
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Belarus
  21.6 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Belgium
  17.34 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Belize
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Benin
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Bermuda
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Bhutan
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Bolivia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  0 cu m (2005)

Botswana
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Brazil
  10 billion cu m (2007 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Brunei
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Bulgaria
  5.179 billion cu m (2005)

Burkina Faso
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Burma
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Burundi
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Cambodia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Cameroon
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Canada
  13.2 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Cape Verde
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Cayman Islands
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Central African Republic
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Chad
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Chile
  2.4 billion cu m (2007 est.)

China
  3.92 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Colombia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Comoros
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Cook Islands
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Costa Rica
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Croatia
  1.103 billion cu m (2005)

Cuba
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Cyprus
  NA

Czech Republic
  8.628 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Denmark
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Djibouti
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Dominica
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Dominican Republic
  239.8 million cu m (2005)

Ecuador
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Egypt
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

El Salvador
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Eritrea
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Estonia
  1.48 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Ethiopia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

European Union
  361.2 billion cu m (2005 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Faroe Islands
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Fiji
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Finland
  4.576 billion cu m (2007 est.)

France
  42.9 billion cu m (2007 est.)

French Polynesia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Gabon
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Gambia, The
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Georgia
  1.48 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Germany
  88.35 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Ghana
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Gibraltar
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Greece
  4.1 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Greenland
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Grenada
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Guam
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Guatemala
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Guinea
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Guyana
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Haiti
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Honduras
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Hong Kong
  2.69 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Hungary
  10.45 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Iceland
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

India
  10 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Indonesia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Iran
  6.1 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Iraq
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Ireland
  4.552 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Israel
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Italy
  73.95 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Jamaica
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Japan
  95.62 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Jordan
  2.4 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Kazakhstan
  10.8 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Kenya
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Kiribati
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Korea, North
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Korea, South
  33.38 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Kuwait
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  750 million cu m (2007 est.)

Laos
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Latvia
  2.04 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Lebanon
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Lesotho
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Liberia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Libya
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Lithuania
  3.44 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Luxembourg
  1.329 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Macau
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Macedonia
  102.8 million cu m (2007)

Madagascar
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Malawi
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Malaysia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Maldives
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Mali
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Malta
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Mauritania
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Mauritius
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Mexico
  11.69 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Moldova
  2.44 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Mongolia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Montserrat
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Morocco
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Mozambique
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Namibia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Nauru
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Nepal
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Netherlands
  25.73 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

New Caledonia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

New Zealand
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Nicaragua
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Niger
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Nigeria
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Niue
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Norway
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Oman
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Pakistan
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Panama
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Paraguay
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Peru
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Philippines
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Poland
  10.12 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Portugal
  4.095 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Puerto Rico
  736.2 million cu m (2007 est.)

Qatar
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Romania
  4.8 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Russia
  58.3 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Rwanda
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Saint Helena
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Saint Lucia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Samoa
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Senegal
  NA cu m

Serbia
  2.1 billion cu m (2004 est.)

Seychelles
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Sierra Leone
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Singapore
  6.5 billion cu m
  note: from Indonesia and Malaysia (2007 est.)

Slovakia
  6.268 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Slovenia
  1.073 billion cu m (2005)

Solomon Islands
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Somalia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

South Africa
  0 cu m (2005)

Spain
  34.47 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Sudan
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Suriname
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Swaziland
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Sweden
  1.006 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Switzerland
  3.232 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Syria
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Taiwan
  10.9 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Tajikistan
  810 million cu m (2007 est.)

Tanzania
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Thailand
  9.8 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Timor-Leste
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Togo
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Tonga
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Tunisia
  0 cu m (2005)

Turkey
  35.83 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Turkmenistan
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Uganda
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Ukraine
  65.4 billion cu m (2007 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  1.343 billion cu m (2005)

United Kingdom
  29.2 billion cu m (2007 est.)

United States
  130.3 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Uruguay
  116.9 million cu m (2007)

Uzbekistan
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Vanuatu
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Venezuela
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Vietnam
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Virgin Islands
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Western Sahara
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

World
  957.6 billion cu m (2007)

Yemen
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Zambia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Zimbabwe
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2183  Natural gas - exports (cu m)


Afghanistan
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Albania
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Algeria
  59.4 billion cu m (2007 est.)

American Samoa
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Angola
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Argentina
  2.6 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Armenia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Aruba
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Australia
  19.91 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Austria
  2.767 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Azerbaijan
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Bahamas, The
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Bahrain
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Bangladesh
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Barbados
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Belarus
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Belgium
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Belize
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Benin
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Bermuda
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Bhutan
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Bolivia
  11.7 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Botswana
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Brazil
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Brunei
  9.4 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Bulgaria
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Burkina Faso
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Burma
  9.9 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Burundi
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Cambodia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Cameroon
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Canada
  107.3 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Cape Verde
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Cayman Islands
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Central African Republic
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Chad
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Chile
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

China
  2.69 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Colombia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Comoros
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Cook Islands
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Costa Rica
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Croatia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Cuba
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Cyprus
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Czech Republic
  402 million cu m (2007 est.)

Denmark
  4.517 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Djibouti
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Dominica
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Dominican Republic
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Ecuador
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Egypt
  15.7 billion cu m (2007 est.)

El Salvador
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Eritrea
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Estonia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Ethiopia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

European Union
  76.48 billion cu m (2005 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Faroe Islands
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Fiji
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Finland
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

France
  966 million cu m (2007 est.)

French Polynesia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Gabon
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Gambia, The
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Georgia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Germany
  12.22 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Ghana
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Gibraltar
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Greece
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Greenland
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Grenada
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Guam
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Guatemala
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Guinea
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Guyana
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Haiti
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Honduras
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Hong Kong
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Hungary
  138 million cu m (2007 est.)

Iceland
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

India
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Indonesia
  32.6 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Iran
  6.2 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Iraq
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Ireland
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Israel
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Italy
  68 million cu m (2007 est.)

Jamaica
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Japan
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Jordan
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Kazakhstan
  8.1 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Kenya
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Kiribati
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Korea, North
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Korea, South
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Kuwait
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Laos
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Latvia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Lebanon
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Lesotho
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Liberia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Libya
  9.9 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Lithuania
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Luxembourg
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Macau
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Macedonia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Madagascar
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Malawi
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Malaysia
  31.6 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Maldives
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Mali
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Malta
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Mauritania
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Mauritius
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Mexico
  2.973 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Moldova
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Mongolia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Montserrat
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Morocco
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Mozambique
  0 cu m (2005 est.)

Namibia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Nauru
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Nepal
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Netherlands
  55.66 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

New Caledonia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

New Zealand
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Nicaragua
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Niger
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Nigeria
  21.2 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Niue
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Norway
  86.1 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Oman
  13.1 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Pakistan
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Panama
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Paraguay
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Peru
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Philippines
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Poland
  45 million cu m (2007 est.)

Portugal
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Puerto Rico
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Qatar
  39.3 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Romania
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Russia
  237.2 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Rwanda
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Saint Helena
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Saint Lucia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Samoa
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Senegal
  NA cu m

Serbia
  0 cu m (2005 est.)

Seychelles
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Sierra Leone
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Singapore
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Slovakia
  180 million cu m (2007 est.)

Slovenia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Solomon Islands
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Somalia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

South Africa
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Spain
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Sri Lanka
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Sudan
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Suriname
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Swaziland
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Sweden
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Switzerland
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Syria
  NA cu m

Taiwan
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Tajikistan
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Tanzania
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Thailand
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Timor-Leste
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Togo
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Tonga
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  18.1 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Tunisia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Turkey
  31 million cu m (2007 est.)

Turkmenistan
  49.4 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Uganda
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Ukraine
  4 billion cu m (2006 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  6.848 billion cu m (2005 est.)

United Kingdom
  10.4 billion cu m (2007 est.)

United States
  23.28 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Uruguay
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Uzbekistan
  14.01 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Vanuatu
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Venezuela
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Vietnam
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Virgin Islands
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Western Sahara
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

World
  929.9 billion cu m (2007 est.)

Yemen
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Zambia
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

Zimbabwe
  0 cu m (2007 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2184  Internet hosts


Afghanistan
  31 (2008)

Albania
  10,162 (2008)

Algeria
  477 (2008)

American Samoa
  1,923 (2008)

Andorra
  23,368 (2008)

Angola
  3,562 (2008)

Anguilla
  205 (2008)

Antarctica
  7,748 (2008)

Antigua and Barbuda
  2,215 (2008)

Argentina
  3.813 million (2008)

Armenia
  26,081 (2008)

Aruba
  17,661 (2008)

Australia
  11.134 million (2008)

Austria
  2.806 million (2008)

Azerbaijan
  6,995 (2008)

Bahamas, The
  41 (2008)

Bahrain
  2,621 (2008)

Bangladesh
  1,440 (2008)

Barbados
  104 (2008)

Belarus
  68,118 (2008)

Belgium
  3.841 million (2008)

Belize
  2,751 (2008)

Benin
  848 (2008)

Bermuda
  1,628 (2008)

Bhutan
  9,046 (2008)

Bolivia
  68,428 (2008)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  56,032 (2008)

Botswana
  6,374 (2008)

Bouvet Island
  6 (2008)

Brazil
  9.573 million (2008)

British Indian Ocean Territory
  89 (2008)

British Virgin Islands
  465 (2008)

Brunei
  14,950 (2008)

Bulgaria
  513,470 (2008)

Burkina Faso
  116 (2008)

Burma
  108 (2008)

Burundi
  162 (2008)

Cambodia
  1,230 (2008)

Cameroon
  69 (2008)

Canada
  5.119 million (2008)

Cape Verde
  20 (2008)

Cayman Islands
  4,648 (2008)

Central African Republic
  21 (2008)

Chad
  5 (2008)

Chile
  847,215 (2008)

China
  14.306 million (2008)

Christmas Island
  1,821 (2008)

Colombia
  1.554 million (2008)

Comoros
  8 (2008)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  3,211 (2008)

Congo, Republic of the
  5 (2008)

Cook Islands
  2,234 (2008)

Costa Rica
  16,440 (2008)

Cote d'Ivoire
  5,569 (2008)

Croatia
  1.111 million (2008)

Cuba
  3,664 (2008)

Cyprus
  143,099 (2008)

Czech Republic
  2.434 million (2008)

Denmark
  3.642 million (2008)

Djibouti
  161 (2008)

Dominica
  29 (2008)

Dominican Republic
  105,546 (2008)

Ecuador
  45,404 (2008)

Egypt
  175,342 (2008)

El Salvador
  11,434 (2008)

Equatorial Guinea
  9 (2008)

Eritrea
  1,074 (2008)

Estonia
  645,495 (2008)

Ethiopia
  128 (2008)

European Union
  31,693 (2008); note - this sum reflects the number of
  internet hosts assigned the .eu internet country code

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  91 (2008)

Faroe Islands
  8,516 (2008)

Fiji
  12,592 (2008)

Finland
  3.877 million (2008)

France
  14.256 million; 14,256,000 (metropolitan France) (2008)

French Polynesia
  14,070 (2008)

French Southern and Antarctic Lands
  38 (2008)

Gabon
  88 (2008)

Gambia, The
  320 (2008)

Georgia
  27,905 (2008)

Germany
  22.606 million (2008)

Ghana
  24,018 (2008)

Gibraltar
  1,904 (2008)

Greece
  1.626 million (2008)

Greenland
  14,132 (2008)

Grenada
  9 (2008)

Guam
  36 (2008)

Guatemala
  124,095 (2008)

Guernsey
  156 (2008)

Guinea
  16 (2008)

Guinea-Bissau
  82 (2008)

Guyana
  6,218 (2008)

Haiti
  7 (2008)

Holy See (Vatican City)
  55 (2008)

Honduras
  13,370 (2008)

Hong Kong
  817,766 (2008)

Hungary
  1.879 million (2008)

Iceland
  263,980 (2008)

India
  2.707 million (2008)

Indonesia
  753,200 (2008)

Iran
  2,860 (2008)

Iraq
  3 (2008)

Ireland
  1.242 million (2008)

Isle of Man
  426 (2008)

Israel
  1.415 million (2008)

Italy
  17.702 million (2008)

Jamaica
  1,292 (2008)

Japan
  39.909 million (2008)

Jersey
  190 (2008)

Jordan
  21,150 (2008)

Kazakhstan
  36,417 (2008)

Kenya
  27,376 (2008)

Kiribati
  9 (2008)

Korea, South
  333,823 (2008)

Kuwait
  3,289 (2008)

Kyrgyzstan
  56,905 (2008)

Laos
  1,015 (2008)

Latvia
  220,082 (2008)

Lebanon
  36,681 (2008)

Lesotho
  83 (2008)

Liberia
  7 (2008)

Libya
  31 (2008)

Liechtenstein
  7,639 (2008)

Lithuania
  812,083 (2008)

Luxembourg
  180,756 (2008)

Macau
  263 (2008)

Macedonia
  36,905 (2008)

Madagascar
  11,016 (2008)

Malawi
  107 (2008)

Malaysia
  377,716 (2008)

Maldives
  1,600 (2008)

Mali
  387 (2008)

Malta
  26,494 (2008)

Marshall Islands
  3 (2008)

Mauritania
  34 (2008)

Mauritius
  9,609 (2008)

Mayotte
  1 (2008)

Mexico
  10.653 million (2008)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  866 (2008)

Moldova
  223,869 (2008)

Monaco
  21,058 (2008)

Mongolia
  356 (2008)

Montserrat
  409 (2008)

Morocco
  275,889 (2008)

Mozambique
  22,532 (2008)

Namibia
  6,296 (2008)

Nauru
  42 (2008)

Nepal
  42,219 (2008)

Netherlands
  10.983 million (2008)

Netherlands Antilles
  47,597 (2008)

New Caledonia
  15,487 (2008)

New Zealand
  1.72 million (2008)

Nicaragua
  58,157 (2008)

Niger
  216 (2008)

Nigeria
  1,048 (2008)

Niue
  382,599 (2008)

Norfolk Island
  51 (2008)

Northern Mariana Islands
  6 (2008)

Norway
  2.995 million (2008)

Oman
  4,785 (2008)

Pakistan
  197,264 (2008)

Palau
  0 (2008)

Panama
  7,858 (2008)

Papua New Guinea
  3,422 (2008)

Paraguay
  19,691 (2008)

Peru
  271,745 (2008)

Philippines
  283,579 (2008)

Pitcairn Islands
  12 (2008)

Poland
  7.808 million (2008)

Portugal
  1.858 million (2008)

Puerto Rico
  404 (2008)

Qatar
  563 (2008)

Romania
  2.195 million (2008)

Russia
  4.822 million (2008)

Rwanda
  2,363 (2008)

Saint Helena
  306 (2008)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  45 (2008)

Saint Lucia
  17 (2008)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  0 (2008)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  124 (2008)

Samoa
  11,307 (2008)

San Marino
  6,665 (2008)

Sao Tome and Principe
  1,355 (2008)

Saudi Arabia
  141,232 (2008)

Senegal
  217 (2008)

Serbia
  NA

Seychelles
  284 (2008)

Sierra Leone
  8 (2008)

Singapore
  837,559 (2008)

Slovakia
  717,744 (2008)

Slovenia
  75,984 (2008)

Solomon Islands
  3,804 (2008)

Somalia
  1 (2008)

South Africa
  1.297 million (2008)

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
  196 (2008)

Spain
  3.264 million (2008)

Sri Lanka
  4,940 (2008)

Sudan
  33 (2008)

Suriname
  33 (2008)

Swaziland
  2,582 (2008)

Sweden
  3.579 million (2008)

Switzerland
  3.437 million (2008)

Syria
  7,857 (2008)

Taiwan
  5.225 million (2008)

Tajikistan
  1,158 (2008)

Tanzania
  24,271 (2008)

Thailand
  1.116 million (2008)

Timor-Leste
  285 (2008)

Togo
  769 (2008)

Tokelau
  273 (2008)

Tonga
  19,231 (2008)

Trinidad and Tobago
  155,722 (2008)

Tunisia
  376 (2008)

Turkey
  2.667 million (2008)

Turkmenistan
  640 (2008)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  2,352 (2008)

Tuvalu
  56,209 (2008)

Uganda
  1,090 (2008)

Ukraine
  524,202 (2008)

United Arab Emirates
  381,915 (2008)

United Kingdom
  8.269 million (2008)

United States
  316 million (2008); note - the US Internet total host
  count includes the following top level domain host addresses: .us,
  .com, .edu, .gov, .mil, .net, and .org

Uruguay
  480,593 (2008)

Uzbekistan
  38,183 (2008)

Vanuatu
  990 (2008)

Venezuela
  145,394 (2008)

Vietnam
  84,151 (2008)

Virgin Islands
  4,610 (2008)

Wallis and Futuna
  1 (2008)

Yemen
  167 (2008)

Zambia
  7,610 (2008)

Zimbabwe
  19,157 (2008)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2185  Investment (gross fixed) (% of GDP)


Albania
  23.3% of GDP (2007 est.)

Algeria
  24.5% of GDP (2007 est.)

Angola
  9.1% of GDP (2007 est.)

Argentina
  24.2% of GDP (2007 est.)

Armenia
  33.6% of GDP (2007 est.)

Australia
  27.3% of GDP (2007 est.)

Austria
  20.6% of GDP (2007 est.)

Azerbaijan
  20% of GDP (2007 est.)

Bahrain
  22.3% of GDP (2007 est.)

Bangladesh
  24.3% of GDP (2007 est.)

Belarus
  30.8% of GDP (2007 est.)

Belgium
  21.3% of GDP (2007 est.)

Belize
  19.7% of GDP (2007 est.)

Benin
  19.3% of GDP (2007 est.)

Bolivia
  16.1% of GDP (2007 est.)

Botswana
  19.2% of GDP (2007 est.)

Brazil
  17.6% of GDP (2007 est.)

Bulgaria
  29.8% of GDP (2007 est.)

Burkina Faso
  21.1% of GDP (2007 est.)

Burma
  13.1% of GDP (2007 est.)

Burundi
  24.4% of GDP (2007 est.)

Cambodia
  19.2% of GDP (2007 est.)

Cameroon
  17.3% of GDP (2007 est.)

Canada
  22.6% of GDP (2007 est.)

Cape Verde
  37% of GDP (2007 est.)

Chad
  11.4% of GDP (2007 est.)

Chile
  20.6% of GDP (2007 est.)

China
  42.7% of GDP (2007 est.)

Colombia
  22.5% of GDP (2007 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  40.4% of GDP (2007 est.)

Costa Rica
  21.6% of GDP (2007 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  8.8% of GDP (2007 est.)

Croatia
  30.1% of GDP (2007 est.)

Cuba
  13.1% of GDP (2007 est.)

Cyprus
  20.8% of GDP (2007 est.)

Czech Republic
  24.1% of GDP (2007 est.)

Denmark
  22.9% of GDP (2007 est.)

Dominican Republic
  18.8% of GDP (2007 est.)

Ecuador
  21.9% of GDP (2007 est.)

Egypt
  21.2% of GDP (2007 est.)

El Salvador
  16.1% of GDP (2007 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  37.9% of GDP (2007 est.)

Eritrea
  19.1% of GDP (2007 est.)

Estonia
  31.9% of GDP (2007 est.)

Ethiopia
  25.9% of GDP (2007 est.)

European Union
  21.5% of GDP (2006 est.)

Finland
  20.3% of GDP (2007 est.)

France
  21.5% of GDP (2007 est.)

Gabon
  24.2% of GDP (2007 est.)

Gambia, The
  25.4% of GDP (2007 est.)

Georgia
  29.4% of GDP (2007 est.)

Germany
  18.5% of GDP (2007 est.)

Ghana
  31.6% of GDP (2007 est.)

Greece
  25.7% of GDP (2007 est.)

Guatemala
  17.1% of GDP (2007 est.)

Guinea
  11.3% of GDP (2007 est.)

Guyana
  34.9% of GDP (2007 est.)

Haiti
  28.9% of GDP (2006 est.)

Honduras
  30.4% of GDP (2007 est.)

Hong Kong
  20.3% of GDP (2007 est.)

Hungary
  20.9% of GDP (2007 est.)

Iceland
  27.5% of GDP (2007 est.)

India
  33.9% of GDP (2007 est.)

Indonesia
  24.9% of GDP (2007 est.)

Iran
  27.6% of GDP (2007 est.)

Ireland
  26.3% of GDP (2007 est.)

Israel
  18.5% of GDP (2007 est.)

Italy
  21% of GDP (2007 est.)

Jamaica
  34.2% of GDP (2007 est.)

Japan
  23.2% of GDP (2007 est.)

Jordan
  27.9% of GDP (2007 est.)

Kazakhstan
  30.3% of GDP (2007 est.)

Kenya
  20.7% of GDP (2007 est.)

Korea, South
  28.8% of GDP (2007 est.)

Kosovo
  29% of GDP (2006 est.)

Kuwait
  19.7% of GDP (2007 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  25.6% of GDP (2007 est.)

Latvia
  32.5% of GDP (2007 est.)

Lebanon
  22% of GDP (2007 est.)

Lesotho
  51.9% of GDP (2007 est.)

Libya
  8.8% of GDP (2007 est.)

Lithuania
  26.6% of GDP (2007 est.)

Luxembourg
  20.2% of GDP (2007 est.)

Macedonia
  17.7% of GDP (2007 est.)

Madagascar
  25.9% of GDP (2007 est.)

Malawi
  8.4% of GDP (2007 est.)

Malaysia
  21.7% of GDP (2007 est.)

Malta
  18.9% of GDP (2007 est.)

Mauritius
  25.1% of GDP (2007 est.)

Mexico
  20.8% of GDP (2007 est.)

Moldova
  33.3% of GDP (2007 est.)

Montenegro
  30.5% of GDP (2006 est.)

Morocco
  29.7% of GDP (2007 est.)

Mozambique
  21.3% of GDP (2007 est.)

Namibia
  23.8% of GDP (2007 est.)

Netherlands
  20% of GDP (2007 est.)

New Zealand
  23.3% of GDP (2007 est.)

Nicaragua
  31.8% of GDP (2007 est.)

Nigeria
  23.7% of GDP (2007 est.)

Norway
  20.8% of GDP (2007 est.)

Oman
  20% of GDP (2007 est.)

Pakistan
  21.3% of GDP (2007 est.)

Panama
  20.2% of GDP (2007 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  19.3% of GDP (2007 est.)

Paraguay
  18.9% of GDP (2007 est.)

Peru
  23% of GDP (2007 est.)

Philippines
  14.8% of GDP (2007 est.)

Poland
  21.7% of GDP (2007 est.)

Portugal
  21.7% of GDP (2007 est.)

Qatar
  43.3% of GDP (2007 est.)

Romania
  28% of GDP (2007 est.)

Russia
  21% of GDP (2007 est.)

Rwanda
  22% of GDP (2007 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe
  36.9% of GDP (2007 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  20% of GDP (2007 est.)

Senegal
  25.2% of GDP (2007 est.)

Serbia
  20.1% of GDP (2007 est.)

Seychelles
  8.9% of GDP (2007 est.)

Singapore
  24.9% of GDP (2007 est.)

Slovakia
  25.7% of GDP (2007 est.)

Slovenia
  28.7% of GDP (2007 est.)

South Africa
  20.6% of GDP (2007 est.)

Spain
  31.1% of GDP (2007 est.)

Sri Lanka
  24.7% of GDP (2007 est.)

Sudan
  19% of GDP (2007 est.)

Swaziland
  18.6% of GDP (2007 est.)

Sweden
  19% of GDP (2007 est.)

Switzerland
  21.5% of GDP (2007 est.)

Syria
  21.5% of GDP (2007 est.)

Taiwan
  21.2% of GDP (2007 est.)

Tajikistan
  12.4% of GDP (2007 est.)

Tanzania
  23.2% of GDP (2007 est.)

Thailand
  26.8% of GDP (2007 est.)

Togo
  24.2% of GDP (2007 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  16.7% of GDP (2007 est.)

Tunisia
  23.6% of GDP (2007 est.)

Turkey
  21.5% of GDP (2007 est.)

Turkmenistan
  32.5% of GDP (2007 est.)

Uganda
  25.4% of GDP (2007 est.)

Ukraine
  27.4% of GDP (2007 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  20.3% of GDP (2007 est.)

United Kingdom
  18.2% of GDP (2007 est.)

United States
  15.5% of GDP (2007 est.)

Uruguay
  13.9% of GDP (2007 est.)

Venezuela
  23.7% of GDP (2007 est.)

Vietnam
  37.1% of GDP (2007 est.)

World
  22.7% of GDP (2007 est.)

Yemen
  25% of GDP (2007 est.)

Zambia
  26.2% of GDP (2007 est.)

Zimbabwe
  16.7% of GDP (2007 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2186  Public debt (% of GDP)


Albania
  51.4% of GDP (2007 est.)

Algeria
  18% of GDP (2007 est.)

Angola
  12% of GDP (2007 est.)

Argentina
  56.1% of GDP (2007 est.)

Aruba
  46.3% of GDP (2005)

Australia
  15.6% of GDP
  note: the Commonwealth government eliminated its net debt in 2006,
  but continues a gross debt issue to support the market for risk-free
  securities (2007 est.)

Austria
  59.1% of GDP (2007 est.)

Azerbaijan
  6.7% of GDP (2007 est.)

Bahrain
  31.2% of GDP (2007 est.)

Bangladesh
  37.4% of GDP (2007 est.)

Belgium
  84.6% of GDP (2007 est.)

Bhutan
  81.4% of GDP (2004)

Bolivia
  46.3% of GDP (2007 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  34% of GDP (2007 est.)

Botswana
  5.4% of GDP (2007 est.)

Brazil
  45.1% of GDP (2007 est.)

Bulgaria
  10.5% of GDP (2007 est.)

Cameroon
  15.5% of GDP (2007 est.)

Canada
  64.2% of GDP (2007 est.)

Chile
  4.1% of GDP (2007 est.)

China
  18.4% of GDP (2007 est.)

Colombia
  52.8% of GDP (2007 est.)

Costa Rica
  46.6% of GDP (2007 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  75.2% of GDP (2007 est.)

Croatia
  47.8% of GDP (2007 est.)

Cuba
  36.8% of GDP (2007 est.)

Cyprus
  59.6% of GDP (2007 est.)

Czech Republic
  26% of GDP (2007 est.)

Denmark
  26% of GDP (2007 est.)

Dominican Republic
  41% of GDP (2007 est.)

Ecuador
  33.1% of GDP (2007 est.)

Egypt
  105.8% of GDP (2007 est.)

El Salvador
  37.3% of GDP (2007 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  1.6% of GDP (2007 est.)

Estonia
  3.4% of GDP (2007 est.)

Ethiopia
  44.5% of GDP (2007 est.)

Finland
  35.9% of GDP (2007 est.)

France
  63.9% of GDP (2007 est.)

Gabon
  52.8% of GDP (2007 est.)

Germany
  64.9% of GDP (2007 est.)

Ghana
  58.5% of GDP (2007 est.)

Gibraltar
  15.7% of GDP (2005 est.)

Greece
  89.5% of GDP (2007 est.)

Guatemala
  20.9% of GDP (2007 est.)

Honduras
  24.1% of GDP (2007 est.)

Hong Kong
  12.5% of GDP (2007 est.)

Hungary
  67% of GDP (2007 est.)

Iceland
  27.6% of GDP (2007 est.)

India
  58.2% of GDP (federal and state debt combined) (2007 est.)

Indonesia
  34% of GDP (2007 est.)

Iran
  17.2% of GDP (2007 est.)

Ireland
  24.9% of GDP (2007 est.)

Israel
  80.6% of GDP (2007 est.)

Italy
  104% of GDP (2007 est.)

Jamaica
  126.5% of GDP (2007 est.)

Japan
  170% of GDP (2007 est.)

Jordan
  72.4% of GDP (2007 est.)

Kazakhstan
  7.7% of GDP (2007 est.)

Kenya
  48.7% of GDP (2007 est.)

Korea, South
  28.2% of GDP (2007 est.)

Kosovo
  NA

Kuwait
  9.7% of GDP (2007 est.)

Latvia
  7.4% of GDP (2007 est.)

Lebanon
  186.6% of GDP (2007 est.)

Libya
  4.7% of GDP (2007 est.)

Lithuania
  17.3% of GDP (2007 est.)

Luxembourg
  6.4% of GDP (2007 est.)

Macedonia
  30.8% of GDP (2007 est.)

Malawi
  50.6% of GDP (2007 est.)

Malaysia
  41.6% of GDP (2007 est.)

Mauritius
  63.1% of GDP (2007 est.)

Mexico
  22.8% of GDP (2007 est.)

Moldova
  23.3% of GDP (2007 est.)

Montenegro
  38% of GDP (2006)

Morocco
  67.4% of GDP (2007 est.)

Mozambique
  22.2% of GDP (2007 est.)

Namibia
  22.3% of GDP (2007 est.)

Netherlands
  45.5% of GDP (2007 est.)

New Zealand
  20.7% of GDP (2007 est.)

Nicaragua
  62.9% of GDP (2007 est.)

Nigeria
  14.4% of GDP (2007 est.)

Norway
  83.1% of GDP (2007 est.)

Oman
  3.7% of GDP (2007 est.)

Pakistan
  50.6% of GDP (2007 est.)

Panama
  53% of GDP (2007 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  40.1% of GDP (2007 est.)

Paraguay
  27% of GDP (2007 est.)

Peru
  29.2% of GDP (2007 est.)

Philippines
  55.8% of GDP (2007 est.)

Poland
  43.1% of GDP (2007 est.)

Portugal
  63.6% of GDP (2007 est.)

Qatar
  11% of GDP (2007 est.)

Romania
  13% of GDP (2007 est.)

Russia
  5.9% of GDP (2007 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  24.3% of GDP (2007 est.)

Senegal
  22.9% of GDP (2007 est.)

Serbia
  37% of GDP (2007 est.)

Seychelles
  92.3% of GDP (2007 est.)

Singapore
  96.3% of GDP (2007 est.)

Slovakia
  35.9% of GDP (2007 est.)

Slovenia
  23.6% of GDP (2007 est.)

South Africa
  31.3% of GDP (2007 est.)

Spain
  36.2% of GDP (2007 est.)

Sri Lanka
  85.8% of GDP (2007 est.)

Sudan
  105.9% of GDP (2007 est.)

Sweden
  41.7% of GDP (2007 est.)

Switzerland
  44.2% of GDP (2007 est.)

Syria
  37.7% of GDP (2007 est.)

Taiwan
  27.9% of GDP (2007 est.)

Tanzania
  19.6% of GDP (2007 est.)

Thailand
  37.9% of GDP (2007 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  27.9% of GDP (2007 est.)

Tunisia
  55.4% of GDP (2007 est.)

Turkey
  38.9% of GDP (2007 est.)

Uganda
  20.6% of GDP (2007 est.)

Ukraine
  11.7% of GDP (2007 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  21.2% of GDP (2007 est.)

United Kingdom
  43.6% of GDP (2007 est.)

United States
  60.8% of GDP (2007 est.)

Uruguay
  64.8% of GDP (2007 est.)

Uzbekistan
  18.7% of GDP (2007 est.)

Venezuela
  19.3% of GDP (2007 est.)

Vietnam
  42% of GDP (2007 est.)

Wallis and Futuna
  5.6% of GDP (2004 est.)

Yemen
  33.5% of GDP (2007 est.)

Zambia
  28.1% of GDP (2007 est.)

Zimbabwe
  218.2% of GDP (2007 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2187  Current account balance


Afghanistan
  NA

Albania
  -$1.202 billion (2007 est.)

Algeria
  $32.05 billion (2007 est.)

Angola
  $13.58 billion (2007 est.)

Anguilla
  -$42.87 million (2003 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  $-211 million (2007 est.)

Argentina
  $7.438 billion (2007 est.)

Armenia
  -$571.4 million (2007 est.)

Australia
  -$56.78 billion (2007 est.)

Austria
  $12.03 billion (2007 est.)

Azerbaijan
  $9.019 billion (2007 est.)

Bahamas, The
  -$1.442 billion (2007 est.)

Bahrain
  $2.907 billion (2007 est.)

Bangladesh
  $804.7 million (2007 est.)

Barbados
  -$254 million (2007 est.)

Belarus
  -$2.876 billion (2007 est.)

Belgium
  $3.282 billion (2007 est.)

Belize
  -$43 million (2007 est.)

Benin
  -$441 million (2007 est.)

Bhutan
  $116 million (2007 est.)

Bolivia
  $1.796 billion (2007 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  -$1.939 billion (2007 est.)

Botswana
  $1.973 billion (2007 est.)

Brazil
  $1.712 billion (2007 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  $134.3 million (1999)

Brunei
  $7.101 billion (2007 est.)

Bulgaria
  -$8.53 billion (2007 est.)

Burkina Faso
  -$706 million (2007 est.)

Burma
  $1.427 billion (2007 est.)

Burundi
  -$101 million (2007 est.)

Cambodia
  -$506.3 million (2007 est.)

Cameroon
  -$325 million (2007 est.)

Canada
  $12.67 billion (2007 est.)

Cape Verde
  -$132.6 million (2007 est.)

Central African Republic
  -$77 million (2007 est.)

Chad
  -$171 million (2007 est.)

Chile
  $7.2 billion (2007 est.)

China
  $371.8 billion (2007 est.)

Colombia
  -$5.862 billion (2007 est.)

Comoros
  $8 million (2007 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  -$402 million (2007 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  -$1.491 billion (2007 est.)

Cook Islands
  $26.67 million (2005)

Costa Rica
  -$1.499 billion (2007 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  -$146 million (2007 est.)

Croatia
  -$4.85 billion (2007 est.)

Cuba
  $240 million (2007 est.)

Cyprus
  -$2.144 billion (2007 est.)

Czech Republic
  -$4.534 billion (2007 est.)

Denmark
  $4.279 billion (2007 est.)

Djibouti
  -$212 million (2007 est.)

Dominica
  -$72 million (2007 est.)

Dominican Republic
  -$2.231 billion (2007 est.)

Ecuador
  $1.064 billion (2007 est.)

Egypt
  $500.9 million (2007 est.)

El Salvador
  -$1.119 billion (2007 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  $415 million (2007 est.)

Eritrea
  -$205 million (2007 est.)

Estonia
  -$3.771 billion (2007 est.)

Ethiopia
  -$826.8 million (2007 est.)

European Union
  $NA

Fiji
  -$507 million (2007 est.)

Finland
  $11.4 billion (2007 est.)

France
  -$31.25 billion (2007 est.)

Gabon
  $1.552 billion (2007 est.)

Gambia, The
  -$71 million (2007 est.)

Georgia
  -$2.044 billion (2007 est.)

Germany
  $254.5 billion (2007 est.)

Ghana
  -$1.549 billion (2007 est.)

Greece
  -$44.4 billion (2007 est.)

Grenada
  -$138 million (2007 est.)

Guatemala
  -$1.663 billion (2007 est.)

Guinea
  -$424 million (2007 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  -$6 million (2007 est.)

Guyana
  -$157 million (2007 est.)

Haiti
  -$467 million (2007 est.)

Honduras
  -$1.225 billion (2007 est.)

Hong Kong
  $28.04 billion (2007 est.)

Hungary
  -$8.018 billion (2007 est.)

Iceland
  -$3.189 billion (2007 est.)

India
  -$12.11 billion (2007 est.)

Indonesia
  $11.01 billion (2007 est.)

Iran
  $28.95 billion (2007 est.)

Iraq
  $6.025 billion (2007 est.)

Ireland
  -$14.12 billion (2007 est.)

Israel
  $5.197 billion (2007 est.)

Italy
  -$51.03 billion (2007 est.)

Jamaica
  -$1.83 billion (2007 est.)

Japan
  $210.5 billion (2007 est.)

Jordan
  -$2.767 billion (2007 est.)

Kazakhstan
  -$7.184 billion (2007 est.)

Kenya
  -$1.147 billion (2007 est.)

Kiribati
  -$21 million (2007 est.)

Korea, South
  $5.954 billion (2007 est.)

Kosovo
  -$58.3 million (2007)

Kuwait
  $47.5 billion (2007 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  -$267.9 million (2007 est.)

Laos
  -$285 million (2007 est.)

Latvia
  -$6.231 billion (2007 est.)

Lebanon
  -$2.046 billion (2007 est.)

Lesotho
  $49 million (2007 est.)

Liberia
  -$224 million (2007)

Libya
  $26.38 billion (2007 est.)

Lithuania
  -$5.26 billion (2007 est.)

Luxembourg
  $4.921 billion (2007 est.)

Macedonia
  -$249 million (2007 est.)

Madagascar
  -$890 million (2007 est.)

Malawi
  -$318 million (2007 est.)

Malaysia
  $28.93 billion (2007 est.)

Maldives
  -$472 million (2007)

Mali
  -$446 million (2007 est.)

Malta
  -$424.5 million (2007 est.)

Mauritania
  -$184 million (2007 est.)

Mauritius
  -$408.3 million (2007 est.)

Mexico
  -$5.525 billion (2007 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  -$34.3 million (FY05 est.)

Moldova
  -$694.7 million (2007 est.)

Mongolia
  -$23 million (2007 est.)

Montenegro
  $NA

Morocco
  -$1.834 billion (2007 est.)

Mozambique
  -$795.1 million (2007 est.)

Namibia
  $805.2 million (2007 est.)

Nepal
  $58 million (2007)

Netherlands
  $47.31 billion (2007 est.)

New Zealand
  -$10.23 billion (2007 est.)

Nicaragua
  -$1.001 billion (2007 est.)

Niger
  -$321 million (2007 est.)

Nigeria
  $2.514 billion (2007 est.)

Norway
  $64.07 billion (2007 est.)

Oman
  $4.866 billion (2007 est.)

Pakistan
  -$8.255 billion (2007 est.)

Palau
  $15.09 million (FY03/04)

Panama
  -$1.577 billion (2007 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  $125.8 million (2007 est.)

Paraguay
  $119 million (2007 est.)

Peru
  $1.516 billion (2007 est.)

Philippines
  $6.351 billion (2007 est.)

Poland
  -$15.91 billion (2007 est.)

Portugal
  -$21.75 billion (2007 est.)

Qatar
  $10.41 billion (2007 est.)

Romania
  -$23.02 billion (2007 est.)

Russia
  $78.31 billion (2007 est.)

Rwanda
  -$147 million (2007 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  -$163 million (2007 est.)

Saint Lucia
  -$199 million (2007 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  -$149 million (2007 est.)

Samoa
  -$24 million (2007 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe
  -$55 million (2007 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  $86.62 billion (2007 est.)

Senegal
  -$1.458 billion (2007 est.)

Serbia
  -$6.889 billion (2007 est.)

Seychelles
  -$272 million (2007 est.)

Sierra Leone
  -$63 million (2007 est.)

Singapore
  $46.39 billion (2007 est.)

Slovakia
  -$3.998 billion (2007 est.)

Slovenia
  -$2.181 billion (2007 est.)

Solomon Islands
  -$143 million (2007 est.)

South Africa
  -$20.63 billion (2007 est.)

Spain
  -$145.3 billion (2007 est.)

Sri Lanka
  -$1.019 billion (2007 est.)

Sudan
  -$3.447 billion (2007 est.)

Suriname
  $24 million (2007 est.)

Swaziland
  -$24 million (2007 est.)

Sweden
  $37.97 billion (2007 est.)

Switzerland
  $72.35 billion (2007 est.)

Syria
  $908 million (2007 est.)

Taiwan
  $32.88 billion (2007 est.)

Tajikistan
  -$351 million (2007 est.)

Tanzania
  -$1.856 billion (2007 est.)

Thailand
  $14.92 billion (2007 est.)

Timor-Leste
  $1.161 billion (2007 est.)

Togo
  -$159 million (2007 est.)

Tonga
  -$23 million (2007 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  $5.378 billion (2007 est.)

Tunisia
  -$905 million (2007 est.)

Turkey
  -$37.58 billion (2007 est.)

Turkmenistan
  $1.705 billion (2007 est.)

Tuvalu
  -$11.68 million (2003)

Uganda
  -$744.7 million (2007 est.)

Ukraine
  -$5.918 billion (2007 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  $34.53 billion (2007 est.)

United Kingdom
  -$119.2 billion (2007 est.)

United States
  -$731.2 billion (2007 est.)

Uruguay
  -$185.6 million (2007 est.)

Uzbekistan
  $4.615 billion (2007 est.)

Vanuatu
  -$60 million (2007 est.)

Venezuela
  $20 billion (2007 est.)

Vietnam
  -$6.993 billion (2007 est.)

Yemen
  -$362 million (2007 est.)

Zambia
  -$228 million (2007 est.)

Zimbabwe
  -$649 million (2007 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2188  Reserves of foreign exchange and gold


Albania
  $2.162 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Algeria
  $110.6 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Angola
  $11.2 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Argentina
  $46.12 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Armenia
  $1.657 billion (December 2007 est.)

Australia
  $26.91 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Austria
  $18.22 billion (2006 est.)

Azerbaijan
  $4.273 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Bahrain
  $4.101 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Bangladesh
  $5.278 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Barbados
  $620 million (2007)

Belarus
  $4.266 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Belgium
  $16.51 billion (2007 est.)

Belize
  $109 million (31 December 2007 est.)

Benin
  $1.209 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Bolivia
  $5.318 billion (31 October 2007)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  $4.525 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Botswana
  $9.79 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Brazil
  $180.3 billion (31 December 2007)

Bulgaria
  $17.38 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Burkina Faso
  $1.029 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Burma
  $2.262 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Burundi
  $177.1 million (31 December 2007 est.)

Cambodia
  $2.143 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Cameroon
  $2.932 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Canada
  $41.08 billion (2007 est.)

Cape Verde
  $398 million (31 December 2007 est.)

Chad
  $969 million (31 December 2007 est.)

Chile
  $16.84 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

China
  $1.534 trillion (31 December 2007 est.)

Colombia
  $20.95 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  $2.206 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Costa Rica
  $4.114 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  $2.519 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Croatia
  $13.67 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Cuba
  $4.247 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Cyprus
  $6.507 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Czech Republic
  $34.59 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Denmark
  $34.32 billion (2006 est.)

Dominican Republic
  $2.562 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Ecuador
  $3.521 billion (30 November 2007 est.)

Egypt
  $31.37 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

El Salvador
  $2.199 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  $3.846 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Eritrea
  $23 million (31 December 2007 est.)

Estonia
  $3.27 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Ethiopia
  $1.294 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

European Union
  $NA

Finland
  $8.385 billion (2007)

France
  $115.7 billion (2006 est.)

Gabon
  $1.238 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Gambia, The
  $142.8 million (31 December 2007 est.)

Georgia
  $1.361 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Germany
  $136.2 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Ghana
  $2.204 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Greece
  $3.658 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Guatemala
  $4.139 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Guinea
  $119 million (31 December 2007 est.)

Guyana
  $313 million (31 December 2007 est.)

Haiti
  $444 million (31 December 2007 est.)

Honduras
  $2.546 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Hong Kong
  $152.7 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Hungary
  $24.05 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Iceland
  $2.436 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

India
  $275 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Indonesia
  $56.92 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Iran
  $69.2 billion (2007 est.)

Iraq
  $25.66 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Ireland
  $926.2 million (2006 est.)

Israel
  $28.52 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Italy
  $94.33 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Jamaica
  $1.905 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Japan
  $954.1 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Jordan
  $7.929 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Kazakhstan
  $17.63 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Kenya
  $3.355 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Korea, South
  $262.2 billion (31 December 2007)

Kosovo
  $NA

Kuwait
  $16.78 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  $1.177 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Laos
  $540 million (31 December 2007 est.)

Latvia
  $5.758 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Lebanon
  $20.55 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Lesotho
  $852 million (31 December 2007 est.)

Libya
  $79.6 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Lithuania
  $7.721 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Luxembourg
  $205.5 million (2006 est.)

Macedonia
  $2.265 billion (31 December 2007)

Madagascar
  $846.7 million (31 December 2007 est.)

Malawi
  $217.2 million (31 December 2007 est.)

Malaysia
  $101.1 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Malta
  $3.798 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Mauritius
  $1.822 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Mexico
  $87.19 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Moldova
  $1.334 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Montenegro
  $NA

Morocco
  $24.72 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Mozambique
  $1.445 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Namibia
  $896 million (31 December 2007 est.)

Netherlands
  $26.98 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

New Zealand
  $17.25 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Nicaragua
  $1.103 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Nigeria
  $51.33 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Norway
  $60.84 billion (2006 est.)

Oman
  $9.524 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Pakistan
  $15.69 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Panama
  $1.935 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  $2.087 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Paraguay
  $2.463 billion (31 December 2007)

Peru
  $27.78 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Philippines
  $33.75 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Poland
  $65.75 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Portugal
  $11.55 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Qatar
  $9.752 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Romania
  $39.96 billion (31 December 2007)

Russia
  $476.4 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Rwanda
  $552.8 million (31 December 2007 est.)

Samoa
  $70.15 million (FY03/04)

Sao Tome and Principe
  $34.6 million (31 December 2007 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  $34.01 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Senegal
  $1.66 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Serbia
  $14.22 billion (2007 est.)

Seychelles
  $40.8 million (31 December 2007 est.)

Singapore
  $163 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Slovakia
  $18.98 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Slovenia
  $5.682 billion (30 September 2007 est.)

South Africa
  $32.94 billion (31 December 2007)

Spain
  $19.05 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Sri Lanka
  $3.644 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Sudan
  $1.378 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Suriname
  $263.3 million (2006)

Swaziland
  $762.7 million (31 December 2007 est.)

Sweden
  $31.04 billion (2006 est.)

Switzerland
  $75.37 billion (2006 est.)

Syria
  $6.046 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Taiwan
  $275 billion (31 December 2007)

Tajikistan
  $242 million (31 December 2007 est.)

Tanzania
  $2.91 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Thailand
  $87.46 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Togo
  $438 million (31 December 2007 est.)

Tonga
  $40.83 million (yearend, FY04/05)

Trinidad and Tobago
  $6.745 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Tunisia
  $7.854 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Turkey
  $76.51 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Turkmenistan
  $5.172 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Uganda
  $2.56 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Ukraine
  $32.48 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  $77.24 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

United Kingdom
  $57.3 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

United States
  $70.57 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Uruguay
  $4.121 billion (December 2007 est.)

Uzbekistan
  $6.75 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Vanuatu
  $40.54 million (2003)

Venezuela
  $33.48 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Vietnam
  $23.87 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Yemen
  $7.76 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Zambia
  $1.09 billion (31 December 2007 est.)

Zimbabwe
  $120 million (31 December 2007 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2193  Major infectious diseases


Afghanistan
  degree of risk: high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne disease: malaria
  animal contact disease: rabies
  note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
  this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
  possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)

Angola
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: malaria, African trypanosomiasis (sleeping
  sickness)
  water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008)

Argentina
  degree of risk: intermediate
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A
  water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)

Bangladesh
  degree of risk: high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A and E, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria are high risks in
  some locations
  water contact disease: leptospirosis
  animal contact disease: rabies
  note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
  this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
  possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)

Belize
  degree of risk: intermediate
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
  typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria
  water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)

Benin
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: malaria and yellow fever
  respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis (2008)

Bhutan
  degree of risk: intermediate
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: malaria
  water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)

Bolivia
  degree of risk: high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
  typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: dengue fever, malaria, and yellow fever
  water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)

Botswana
  degree of risk: high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
  typhoid fever
  vectorborne disease: malaria (2008)

Burkina Faso
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne disease: malaria
  water contact disease: schistosomiasis
  respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis
  note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
  this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
  possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)

Burma
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria
  water contact disease: leptospirosis
  animal contact disease: rabies
  note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
  this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
  possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)

Burundi
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne disease: malaria (2008)

Cambodia
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: dengue fever, Japanese encephalitis, and
  malaria
  note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
  this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
  possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)

Cameroon
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A and E, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: malaria and yellow fever
  water contact disease: schistosomiasis
  respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis
  animal contact disease: rabies (2008)

Central African Republic
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne disease: malaria
  respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis (2008)

Chad
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne disease: malaria
  water contact disease: schistosomiasis
  respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis (2008)

China
  degree of risk: intermediate
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
  typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: Crimean Congo hemorrhagic fever, Japanese
  encephalitis, and malaria
  water contact disease: leptospirosis
  animal contact disease: rabies
  note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
  this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
  possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)

Colombia
  degree of risk: high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A
  vectorborne diseases: dengue fever, malaria, and yellow fever
  water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: malaria, plague, and African trypanosomiasis
  (sleeping sickness)
  water contact disease: schistosomiasis
  animal contact disease: rabies (2008)

Congo, Republic of the
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne disease: malaria and African trypanosomiasis (sleeping
  sickness)
  animal contact disease: rabies (2008)

Costa Rica
  degree of risk: intermediate
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A
  vectorborne diseases: dengue fever (2008)

Cote d'Ivoire
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
  typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: malaria and yellow fever
  water contact: schistosomiasis
  animal contact disease: rabies
  note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
  this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
  possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)

Croatia
  degree of risk: intermediate
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A
  vectorborne diseases: tickborne encephalitis
  note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
  this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
  possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)

Cuba
  degree of risk: intermediate
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A
  vectorborne diseases: dengue fever (2008)

Djibouti
  degree of risk: high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A and E, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne disease: malaria
  note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
  this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
  possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)

Dominican Republic
  degree of risk: high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
  typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria
  water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)

Ecuador
  degree of risk: high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
  typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: dengue fever, malaria, and yellow fever
  water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)

Egypt
  degree of risk: intermediate
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
  typhoid fever
  water contact disease: schistosomiasis
  note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
  this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
  possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)

El Salvador
  degree of risk: high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
  typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: dengue fever
  water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)

Equatorial Guinea
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne disease: malaria (2008)

Eritrea
  degree of risk: high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
  typhoid fever
  vectorborne disease: malaria (2008)

Estonia
  degree of risk: intermediate
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A
  vectorborne disease: tickborne encephalitis (2008)

Ethiopia
  degree of risk: high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A and E, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: malaria
  respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis
  animal contact disease: rabies
  water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008)

Gabon
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
  typhoid fever
  vectorborne disease: malaria (2008)

Gambia, The
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: dengue fever, malaria, Crimean-Congo
  hemorrhagic fever, and yellow fever
  water contact disease: schistosomiasis
  respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis (2008)

Ghana
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: malaria and yellow fever
  water contact disease: schistosomiasis
  respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis
  note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
  this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
  possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)

Guatemala
  degree of risk: intermediate
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
  typhoid fever
  vectorborne disease: dengue fever and malaria (2008)

Guinea
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: malaria and yellow fever
  water contact disease: schistosomiasis
  respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis
  aerosolized dust or soil contact disease: Lassa fever (2008)

Guinea-Bissau
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: malaria and yellow fever
  water contact disease: schistosomiasis
  respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis (2008)

Guyana
  degree of risk: high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria
  water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)

Haiti
  degree of risk: high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A and E, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria
  water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)

Honduras
  degree of risk: high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
  typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria
  water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)

Hungary
  degree of risk: intermediate
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A
  vectorborne diseases: tickborne encephalitis (2008)

India
  degree of risk: high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A and E,
  and typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: chikungunya, dengue fever, Japanese
  encephalitis, and malaria
  animal contact disease: rabies
  note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
  this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
  possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)

Indonesia
  degree of risk: high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A and E,
  and typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: chikungunya, dengue fever, and malaria
  note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
  this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
  possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)

Iran
  degree of risk: intermediate
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A
  vectorborne diseases: Crimean Congo hemorrhagic fever and malaria
  note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
  this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
  possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)

Iraq
  degree of risk: intermediate
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
  typhoid fever
  note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
  this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
  possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)

Kenya
  degree of risk: high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne disease: malaria
  water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008)

Laos
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: dengue fever, Japanese encephalitis, and
  malaria
  note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
  this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
  possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)

Latvia
  degree of risk: intermediate
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A
  vectorborne diseases: tickborne encephalitis (2008)

Liberia
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: malaria and yellow fever
  water contact disease: schistosomiasis
  aerosolized dust or soil contact disease: Lassa fever
  animal contact disease: rabies (2008)

Lithuania
  degree of risk: intermediate
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A
  vectorborne diseases: tickborne encephalitis (2008)

Madagascar
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: chikungunya, malaria, and plague
  water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008)

Malawi
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: malaria and plague
  water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008)

Malaysia
  degree of risk: high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
  typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria
  note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
  this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
  possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)

Mali
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne disease: malaria
  water contact disease: schistosomiasis
  respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis (2008)

Mauritania
  degree of risk: high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: malaria and Rift Valley fever (2008)

Mexico
  degree of risk: intermediate
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
  typhoid fever
  vectorborne disease: dengue fever
  water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)

Montenegro
  degree of risk: intermediate
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A
  vectorborne disease: Crimean Congo hemorrhagic fever (2008)

Mozambique
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: malaria and plague
  water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008)

Namibia
  degree of risk: high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
  typhoid fever
  vectorborne disease: malaria
  water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008)

Nepal
  degree of risk: intermediate
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
  typhoid fever
  vectorborne disease: Japanese encephalitis and malaria (2008)

Nicaragua
  degree of risk: intermediate
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
  typhoid fever
  vectorborne disease: dengue fever and malaria
  water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)

Niger
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne disease: malaria
  respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis
  note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
  this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
  possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)

Nigeria
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne disease: malaria and yellow fever
  respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis
  aerosolized dust or soil contact disease: one of the most highly
  endemic areas for Lassa fever
  water contact disease: leptospirosis and shistosomiasis
  note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
  this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
  possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)

Pakistan
  degree of risk: high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A and E,
  and typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria
  animal contact disease: rabies
  note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
  this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
  possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)

Panama
  degree of risk: intermediate
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A
  vectorborne disease: dengue fever and malaria
  water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)

Papua New Guinea
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
  typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria (2008)

Paraguay
  degree of risk: intermediate
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
  typhoid fever
  vectorborne disease: dengue fever and malaria (2008)

Peru
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial, hepatitis A, and typhoid
  fever
  vectorborne disease: dengue fever, malaria, Oroya fever, and yellow
  fever
  water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)

Philippines
  degree of risk: high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
  typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria (2008)

Poland
  degree of risk: intermediate
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea
  vectorborne disease: tickborne encephalitis
  note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
  this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
  possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)

Russia
  degree of risk: intermediate
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A
  vectorborne disease: Crimean Congo hemorrhagic fever and tickborne
  encephalitis
  note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
  this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
  possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)

Rwanda
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
  typhoid fever
  vectorborne disease: malaria (2008)

Sao Tome and Principe
  degree of risk: high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
  typhoid fever
  vectorborne disease: malaria (2008)

Senegal
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever, dengue fever,
  malaria, Rift Valley fever, and yellow fever
  water contact disease: schistosomiasis
  respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis (2008)

Serbia
  degree of risk: intermediate
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A
  vectorborne disease: Crimean Congo hemorrhagic fever
  note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
  this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
  possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)

Sierra Leone
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: malaria and yellow fever
  water contact disease: schistosomiasis
  aerosolized dust or soil contact disease: Lassa fever (2008)

Somalia
  degree of risk: high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A and E, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: dengue fever, malaria, and Rift Valley fever
  water contact disease: schistosomiasis
  animal contact disease: rabies (2008)

South Africa
  degree of risk: intermediate
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
  typhoid fever
  vectorborne disease: Crimean Congo hemorrhagic fever and malaria
  water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008)

Sri Lanka
  degree of risk: high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A
  vectorborne disease: dengue fever and malaria
  water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)

Sudan
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: malaria, dengue fever, African trypanosomiasis
  (sleeping sickness)
  water contact disease: schistosomiasis
  respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis
  note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
  this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
  possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)

Suriname
  degree of risk: high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne disease: dengue fever, Mayaro virus, and malaria
  water contact disease: leptospirosis (2008)

Swaziland
  degree of risk: intermediate
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
  typhoid fever
  vectorborne disease: malaria
  water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008)

Tajikistan
  degree of risk: high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
  typhoid fever
  vectorborne disease: malaria (2008)

Tanzania
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
  typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: malaria and plague
  water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008)

Thailand
  degree of risk: high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A
  vectorborne diseases: dengue fever, Japanese encephalitis, and
  malaria
  animal contact disease: rabies
  water contact disease: leptospirosis
  note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
  this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
  possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)

Timor-Leste
  degree of risk: high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: chikungunya, dengue fever and malaria (2008)

Togo
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: malaria and yellow fever
  water contact disease: schistosomiasis
  respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis
  note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
  this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
  possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)

Uganda
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
  typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: chikungunya, malaria, plague, and African
  trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness)
  water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008)

Venezuela
  degree of risk: high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A
  vectorborne disease: dengue fever, malaria, and Venezuelan equine
  encephalitis (2008)

Vietnam
  degree of risk: high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and
  typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: dengue fever, malaria, Japanese encephalitis,
  and plague
  water contact disease: leptospirosis
  note: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in
  this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases
  possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)

Yemen
  degree of risk: high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: dengue fever and malaria
  water contact disease: schistosomiasis (2008)

Zambia
  degree of risk: very high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne diseases: malaria and plague are high risks in some
  locations
  water contact disease: schistosomiasis
  animal contact disease: rabies (2008)

Zimbabwe
  degree of risk: high
  food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea,
  hepatitis A, and typhoid fever
  vectorborne disease: malaria
  water contact disease: schistosomiasis
  animal contact disease: rabies (2008)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2194  Refugees and internally displaced persons


Afghanistan
  IDPs: 132,246 (mostly Pashtuns and Kuchis displaced in
  south and west due to drought and instability) (2007)

Algeria
  refugees (country of origin): 90,000 (Western Saharan
  Sahrawi, mostly living in Algerian-sponsored camps in the
  southwestern Algerian town of Tindouf)
  IDPs: undetermined (civil war during 1990s) (2007)

Angola
  refugees (country of origin): 12,615 (Democratic Republic of
  Congo)
  IDPs: 61,700 (27-year civil war ending in 2002; 4 million IDPs
  already have returned) (2007)

Armenia
  refugees (country of origin): 113,295 (Azerbaijan)
  IDPs: 8,400 (conflict with Azerbaijan over Nagorno-Karabakh,
  majority have returned home since 1994 ceasefire) (2007)

Azerbaijan
  refugees (country of origin): 2,400 (Russia)
  IDPs: 580,000-690,000 (conflict with Armenia over Nagorno-Karabakh)
  (2007)

Bangladesh
  refugees (country of origin): 26,268 (Burma)
  IDPs: 65,000 (land conflicts, religious persecution) (2007)

Benin
  refugees (country of origin): 9,444 (Togo) (2007)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  refugees (country of origin): 7,269 (Croatia)
  IDPs: 131,600 (Bosnian Croats, Serbs, and Muslims displaced in
  1992-95 war) (2007)

Burma
  IDPs: 503,000 (government offensives against ethnic insurgent
  groups near the eastern borders; most IDPs are ethnic Karen,
  Karenni, Shan, Tavoyan, and Mon) (2007)

Burundi
  refugees (country of origin): 9,849 (Democratic Republic of
  the Congo)
  IDPs: 100,000 (armed conflict between government and rebels; most
  IDPs in northern and western Burundi) (2007)

Cameroon
  refugees (country of origin): 20,000-30,000 (Chad); 3,000
  (Nigeria); 24,000 (Central African Republic) (2007)

Central African Republic
  refugees (country of origin): 7,900
  (Sudan); 3,700 (Democratic Republic of the Congo); note - UNHCR
  resumed repatriation of Southern Sudanese refugees in 2006
  IDPs: 197,000 (ongoing unrest following coup in 2003) (2007)

Chad
  refugees (country of origin): 234,000 (Sudan); 54,200 (Central
  African Republic)
  IDPs: 178,918 (2007)

China
  refugees (country of origin): 300,897 (Vietnam); estimated
  30,000-50,000 (North Korea)
  IDPs: 90,000 (2007)

Colombia
  IDPs: 1.8-3.5 million (conflict between government and
  illegal armed groups and drug traffickers) (2007)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  refugees (country of origin):
  132,295 (Angola); 37,313 (Rwanda); 17,777 (Burundi); 13,904
  (Uganda); 6,181 (Sudan); 5,243 (Republic of Congo)
  IDPs: 1.4 million (fighting between government forces and rebels
  since mid-1990s; most IDPs are in eastern provinces) (2007)

Congo, Republic of the
  refugees (country of origin): 46,341
  (Democratic Republic of Congo); 6,564 (Rwanda)
  IDPs: 48,000 (multiple civil wars since 1992; most IDPs are ethnic
  Lari) (2007)

Costa Rica
  refugees (country of origin): 9,699-11,500 (Colombia)
  (2007)

Cote d'Ivoire
  refugees (country of origin): 25,615 (Liberia)
  IDPs: 709,000 (2002 coup; most IDPs are in western regions) (2007)

Croatia
  IDPs: 2,900-7,000 (Croats and Serbs displaced in 1992-95
  war) (2007)

Cyprus
  IDPs: 210,000 (both Turkish and Greek Cypriots; many
  displaced for over 30 years) (2007)

Djibouti
  refugees (country of origin): 8,642 (Somalia) (2007)

Ecuador
  refugees (country of origin): 11,526 (Colombia); note -
  UNHCR estimates as many as 250,000 Columbians are seeking asylum in
  Ecuador, many of whom do not register as refugees for fear of
  deportation (2007)

Egypt
  refugees (country of origin): 60,000 - 80,000 (Iraq); 70,198
  (Palestinian Territories); 12,157 (Sudan) (2007)

Eritrea
  IDPs: 32,000 (border war with Ethiopia from 1998-2000; most
  IDPs are near the central border region) (2007)

Ethiopia
  refugees (country of origin): 66,980 (Sudan); 16,576
  (Somalia); 13,078 (Eritrea)
  IDPs: 200,000 (border war with Eritrea from 1998-2000, ethnic
  clashes in Gambela, and ongoing Ethiopian military counterinsurgency
  in Somali region; most IDPs are in Tigray and Gambela Provinces)
  (2007)

Gabon
  refugees (country of origin): 7,178 (Republic of Congo) (2007)

Gambia, The
  refugees (country of origin): 5,955 (Sierra Leone) (2007)

Gaza Strip
  refugees (country of origin): 1.017 million (Palestinian
  Refugees (UNRWA)) (2007)

Georgia
  refugees (country of origin): 1,100 (Russia)
  IDPs: 220,000-240,000 (displaced from Abkhazia and South Ossetia)
  (2007)

Ghana
  refugees (country of origin): 35,653 (Liberia); 8,517 (Togo)
  (2007)

Guatemala
  IDPs: undetermined (the UN does not estimate there are any
  IDPs, although some NGOs estimate over 200,000 IDPs as a result of
  over three decades of internal conflict that ended in 1996) (2007)

Guinea
  refugees (country of origin): 21,856 (Liberia); 5,259 (Sierra
  Leone); 3,900 (Cote d'Ivoire)
  IDPs: 19,000 (cross-border incursions from Cote d'Ivoire, Liberia,
  Sierra Leone) (2007)

Guinea-Bissau
  refugees (country of origin): 7,454 (Senegal) (2007)

India
  refugees (country of origin): 77,200 (Tibet/China); 69,609
  (Sri Lanka); 9,472 (Afghanistan)
  IDPs: at least 600,000 (about half are Kashmiri Pandits from Jammu
  and Kashmir) (2007)

Indonesia
  IDPs: 200,000-350,000 (government offensives against
  rebels in Aceh; most IDPs in Aceh, Central Kalimantan, Central
  Sulawesi Provinces, and Maluku) (2007)

Iran
  refugees (country of origin): 914,268 (Afghanistan); 54,024
  (Iraq) (2007)

Iraq
  refugees (country of origin): 10,000-15,000 (Palestinian
  Territories); 11,773 (Iran); 16,832 (Turkey)
  IDPs: 2.4 million (ongoing US-led war and ethno-sectarian violence)
  (2007)

Israel
  IDPs: 150,000-420,000 (Arab villagers displaced from homes in
  northern Israel) (2007)

Jordan
  refugees (country of origin): 1,835,704 (Palestinian Refugees
  (UNRWA)); 500,000 (Iraq)
  IDPs: 160,000 (1967 Arab-Israeli War) (2007)

Kazakhstan
  refugees (country of origin): 3,700 (Russia); 508
  (Afghanistan) (2007)

Kenya
  refugees (country of origin): 173,702 (Somalia); 73,004
  (Sudan); 16,428 (Ethiopia)
  IDPs: 250,000-400,000 (2007 post-election violence; KANU attacks on
  opposition tribal groups in 1990s) (2007)

Korea, North
  IDPs: undetermined (flooding in mid-2007 and famine
  during mid-1990s) (2007)

Kosovo
  IDP's: 21,000 (2007)

Lebanon
  refugees (country of origin): 405,425 (Palestinian refugees
  (UNRWA)); 50,000-60,000 (Iraq)
  IDPs: 17,000 (1975-90 civil war, Israeli invasions); 200,000
  (July-August 2006 war) (2007)

Liberia
  refugees (country of origin): 12,600 (Cote d'Ivoire)
  IDPs: 13,000 (civil war from 1990-2004; IDP resettlement began in
  November 2004) (2007)

Libya
  refugees (country of origin): 8,000 (Palestinian Territories)
  (2007)

Macedonia
  IDPs: fewer than 1,000 (ethnic conflict in 2001) (2007)

Malaysia
  refugees (country of origin): 15,174 (Indonesia); 21,544
  (Burma) (2007)

Maldives
  IDPs: 1,000-10,000 (December 2004 tsunami victims) (2007)

Mali
  refugees (country of origin): 6,300 (Mauritania) (2007)

Mexico
  IDPs: 5,500-10,000 (government's quashing of Zapatista
  uprising in 1994 in eastern Chiapas Region) (2007)

Montenegro
  refugees (country of origin): 7,000 (Kosovo); note -
  mostly ethnic Serbs and Roma who fled Kosovo in 1999
  IDPs: 16,192 (ethnic conflict in 1999 and riots in 2004) (2007)

Namibia
  refugees (country of origin): 4,700 (Angola) (2007)

Nepal
  refugees (country of origin): 107,803 (Bhutan); 20,153
  (Tibet/China)
  IDPs: 50,000-70,000 (remaining from ten-year Maoist insurgency that
  officially ended in 2006; displacement spread across the country)
  (2007)

Nigeria
  refugees (country of origin): 5,778 (Liberia)
  IDPs: undetermined (communal violence between Christians and Muslims
  since President OBASANJO's election in 1999; displacement is mostly
  short-term) (2007)

Pakistan
  refugees (country of origin): 1,043,984 (Afghanistan)
  IDPs: undetermined (government strikes on Islamic militants in South
  Waziristan); 34,000 (October 2005 earthquake; most of those
  displaced returned to their home villages in the spring of 2006)
  (2007)

Papua New Guinea
  refugees (country of origin): 10,177 (Indonesia)
  (2007)

Peru
  IDPs: 60,000-150,000 (civil war from 1980-2000; most IDPs are
  indigenous peasants in Andean and Amazonian regions) (2007)

Philippines
  IDPs: 300,000 (fighting between government troops and
  MILF and Abu Sayyaf groups) (2007)

Russia
  IDPs: 18,000-160,000 (displacement from Chechnya and North
  Ossetia) (2007)

Rwanda
  refugees (country of origin): 46,272 (Democratic Republic of
  the Congo); 4,400 (Burundi) (2007)

Saudi Arabia
  refugees (country of origin): 240,015 (Palestinian
  Territories) (2007)

Senegal
  refugees (country of origin): 19,630 (Mauritania)
  IDPs: 22,400 (approximately 65% of the IDP population returned in
  2005, but new displacement is occurring due to clashes between
  government troops and separatists in Casamance region) (2007)

Serbia
  refugees (country of origin): 71,111 (Croatia); 27,414
  (Bosnia and Herzegovina); 206,000 (Kosovo), note - mostly ethnic
  Serbs and Roma who fled Kosovo in 1999 (2007)

Sierra Leone
  refugees (country of origin): 27,311 (Liberia) (2007)

Solomon Islands
  IDPs: 5,400 (displaced by tsunami on 2 April 2007)
  (2007)

Somalia
  IDPs: 1.1 million (civil war since 1988, clan-based
  competition for resources) (2007)

South Africa
  refugees (country of origin): 10,772 (Democratic
  Republic of Congo); 7,818 (Somalia); 5,759 (Angola) (2007)

Sri Lanka
  IDPs: 460,000 (both Tamils and non-Tamils displaced due to
  long-term civil war between the government and the separatist
  Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE)) (2007)

Sudan
  refugees (country of origin): 157,220 (Eritrea); 25,023
  (Chad); 11,009 (Ethiopia); 7,895 (Uganda); 5,023 (Central African
  Republic)
  IDPs: 5.3 - 6.2 million (civil war 1983-2005; ongoing conflict in
  Darfur region) (2007)

Syria
  refugees (country of origin): 1-1.4 million (Iraq); 522,100
  (Palestinian Refugees (UNRWA))
  IDPs: 305,000 (most displaced from Golan Heights during 1967
  Arab-Israeli War) (2007)

Tanzania
  refugees (country of origin): 352,640 (Burundi); 127,973
  (Democratic Republic of the Congo) (2007)

Thailand
  refugees (country of origin): 132,241 (Burma) (2007)

Timor-Leste
  IDPs: 100,000 (2007)

Togo
  refugees (country of origin): 5,000 (Ghana)
  IDPs: 1,500 (2007)

Turkey
  IDPs: 1-1.2 million (fighting 1984-99 between Kurdish PKK and
  Turkish military; most IDPs in southeastern provinces) (2007)

Turkmenistan
  refugees (country of origin): 11,173 (Tajikistan); less
  than 1,000 (Afghanistan) (2007)

Uganda
  refugees (country of origin): 215,700 (Sudan); 28,880
  (Democratic Republic of Congo); 24,900 (Rwanda)
  IDPs: 1.27 million (350,000 IDPs returned in 2006 following ongoing
  peace talks between the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) and the
  Government of Uganda) (2007)

United States
  refugees (country of origin): the US admitted 62,643
  refugees during FY04/05 including; 10,586 (Somalia); 8,549 (Laos);
  6,666 (Russia); 6,479 (Cuba); 3,100 (Haiti); 2,136 (Iran) (2006)

Uzbekistan
  refugees (country of origin): 39,202 (Tajikistan); 1,060
  (Afghanistan)
  IDPs: 3,400 (forced population transfers by government from villages
  near Tajikistan border) (2007)

West Bank
  refugees (country of origin): 722,000 (Palestinian
  Refugees (UNRWA)) (2007)

World
  the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR)
  estimated that in December 2006 there was a global population of 8.8
  million registered refugees and as many as 24.5 million IDPs in more
  than 50 countries; the actual global population of refugees is
  probably closer to 10 million given the estimated 1.5 million Iraqi
  refugees displaced throughout the Middle East (2007)

Yemen
  refugees (country of origin): 91,587 (Somalia) (2007)

Zambia
  refugees (country of origin): 42,565 (Angola); 60,874
  (Democratic Republic of the Congo); 4,100 (Rwanda) (2007)

Zimbabwe
  refugees (country of origin): 2,500 (Democratic Republic of
  Congo)
  IDPs: 569,685 (MUGABE-led political violence, human rights
  violations, land reform, and economic collapse) (2007)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2195  GDP (official exchange rate)


Afghanistan
  $8.842 billion (2007 est.)

Albania
  $10.62 billion (2007 est.)

Algeria
  $131.6 billion (2007 est.)

American Samoa
  $333.8 million (2005)

Andorra
  $NA

Angola
  $61.36 billion (2007 est.)

Anguilla
  $108.9 million (2004 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda
  $1.089 billion (2007 est.)

Argentina
  $260 billion (2007 est.)

Armenia
  $7.974 billion (2007 est.)

Aruba
  $2.258 billion (2005 est.)

Australia
  $908.8 billion (2007 est.)

Austria
  $373.9 billion (2007 est.)

Azerbaijan
  $31.32 billion (2007 est.)

Bahamas, The
  $6.586 billion (2007 est.)

Bahrain
  $19.66 billion (2007 est.)

Bangladesh
  $72.42 billion (2007 est.)

Barbados
  $3.739 billion (2007 est.)

Belarus
  $44.77 billion (2007 est.)

Belgium
  $453.6 billion (2007 est.)

Belize
  $1.274 billion (2007 est.)

Benin
  $5.433 billion (2007 est.)

Bermuda
  $NA

Bhutan
  $1.308 billion (2007 est.)

Bolivia
  $13.19 billion (2007 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  $14.78 billion (2007 est.)

Botswana
  $12.31 billion (2007 est.)

Brazil
  $1.314 trillion (2007 est.)

British Virgin Islands
  $839.7 million (2003)

Brunei
  $12.39 billion (2007 est.)

Bulgaria
  $39.61 billion (2007 est.)

Burkina Faso
  $6.977 billion (2007 est.)

Burma
  $13.53 billion (2007 est.)

Burundi
  $1.001 billion (2007 est.)

Cambodia
  $8.604 billion (2007 est.)

Cameroon
  $20.65 billion (2007 est.)

Canada
  $1.432 trillion (2007 est.)

Cape Verde
  $1.428 billion (2007 est.)

Cayman Islands
  $NA

Central African Republic
  $1.714 billion (2007 est.)

Chad
  $7.095 billion (2007 est.)

Chile
  $163.8 billion (2007 est.)

China
  $3.251 trillion (2007 est.)

Colombia
  $171.6 billion (2007 est.)

Comoros
  $442 million (2007 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  $10.14 billion (2007 est.)

Congo, Republic of the
  $7.657 billion (2007 est.)

Cook Islands
  $183.2 million (2005 est.)

Costa Rica
  $26.24 billion (2007 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  $19.6 billion (2007 est.)

Croatia
  $51.36 billion (2007 est.)

Cuba
  $45.58 billion (2007 est.)

Cyprus
  $21.3 billion (2007 est.)

Czech Republic
  $175.3 billion (2007 est.)

Denmark
  $311.9 billion (2007 est.)

Djibouti
  $841 million (2007 est.)

Dominica
  $311 million (2007 est.)

Dominican Republic
  $36.4 billion (2007 est.)

Ecuador
  $44.18 billion (2007 est.)

Egypt
  $127.9 billion (2007 est.)

El Salvador
  $20.37 billion (2007 est.)

Equatorial Guinea
  $10.49 billion (2007 est.)

Eritrea
  $1.316 billion (2007 est.)

Estonia
  $21.28 billion (2007 est.)

Ethiopia
  $19.43 billion (2007 est.)

European Union
  $16.62 trillion (2007 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
  $NA

Faroe Islands
  $1.7 billion (2005 est.)

Fiji
  $3.409 billion (2007 est.)

Finland
  $245 billion (2007 est.)

France
  $2.56 trillion (2007 est.)

French Polynesia
  $3.8 billion (2002)

Gabon
  $11.3 billion (2007 est.)

Gambia, The
  $653 million (2007 est.)

Gaza Strip
  $5.328 billion (includes West Bank) (2006 est.)

Georgia
  $10.29 billion (2007 est.)

Germany
  $3.322 trillion (2007 est.)

Ghana
  $14.86 billion (2007 est.)

Gibraltar
  $1.066 billion (2005 est.)

Greece
  $314.6 billion (2007 est.)

Greenland
  $1.7 billion (2005)

Grenada
  $590 million (2007 est.)

Guam
  $2.773 billion (2001)

Guatemala
  $33.69 billion (2007 est.)

Guernsey
  $2.742 billion (2005)

Guinea
  $4.714 billion (2007 est.)

Guinea-Bissau
  $343 million (2007 est.)

Guyana
  $1.039 billion (2007 est.)

Haiti
  $5.435 billion (2007 est.)

Honduras
  $12.28 billion (2007 est.)

Hong Kong
  $206.7 billion (2007 est.)

Hungary
  $138.4 billion (2007 est.)

Iceland
  $20 billion (2007 est.)

India
  $1.099 trillion (2007 est.)

Indonesia
  $432.9 billion (2007 est.)

Iran
  $294.1 billion (2007 est.)

Iraq
  $60.12 billion (2007 est.)

Ireland
  $258.6 billion (2007 est.)

Isle of Man
  $2.719 billion (2005 est.)

Israel
  $161.9 billion (2007 est.)

Italy
  $2.105 trillion (2007 est.)

Jamaica
  $11.21 billion (2007 est.)

Japan
  $4.384 trillion (2007 est.)

Jersey
  $5.1 billion (2005 est.)

Jordan
  $16.01 billion (2007 est.)

Kazakhstan
  $103.8 billion (2007 est.)

Kenya
  $29.3 billion (2007 est.)

Kiribati
  $67 million (2007 est.)

Korea, North
  $25.96 billion (2007 est.)

Korea, South
  $957.1 billion (2007 est.)

Kosovo
  $3.237 billion (2007 est.)

Kuwait
  $111.3 billion (2007 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  $3.748 billion (2007 est.)

Laos
  $4.028 billion (2007 est.)

Latvia
  $27.34 billion (2007 est.)

Lebanon
  $24.64 billion (2007 est.)

Lesotho
  $1.6 billion (2007 est.)

Liberia
  $730 million (2007 est.)

Libya
  $57.06 billion (2007 est.)

Liechtenstein
  $36.33 billion (2007 est.)

Lithuania
  $38.35 billion (2007 est.)

Luxembourg
  $50.16 billion (2007 est.)

Macau
  $14.3 billion (2006)

Macedonia
  $7.497 billion (2007 est.)

Madagascar
  $7.322 billion (2007 est.)

Malawi
  $3.538 billion (2007 est.)

Malaysia
  $186.5 billion (2007 est.)

Maldives
  $1.049 billion (2007 est.)

Mali
  $6.745 billion (2007 est.)

Malta
  $7.419 billion (2007 est.)

Marshall Islands
  $144 million (2005)

Mauritania
  $2.756 billion (2007 est.)

Mauritius
  $6.959 billion (2007 est.)

Mayotte
  $NA

Mexico
  $893.4 billion (2007 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  $232 million (2005)

Moldova
  $4.227 billion (2007 est.)

Monaco
  $NA

Mongolia
  $3.905 billion (2007 est.)

Montenegro
  $2.974 billion (2007 est.)

Montserrat
  $NA

Morocco
  $73.43 billion (2007 est.)

Mozambique
  $7.559 billion (2007 est.)

Namibia
  $7.4 billion (2007 est.)

Nauru
  $NA

Nepal
  $9.627 billion (2007 est.)

Netherlands
  $768.7 billion (2007 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  $NA

New Caledonia
  $3.3 billion (2003 est.)

New Zealand
  $128.1 billion (2007 est.)

Nicaragua
  $5.723 billion (2007 est.)

Niger
  $4.174 billion (2007 est.)

Nigeria
  $166.8 billion (2007 est.)

Niue
  $10.01 million (2003)

Northern Mariana Islands
  $633.4 million (2000)

Norway
  $391.5 billion (2007 est.)

Oman
  $40.06 billion (2007 est.)

Pakistan
  $143.8 billion (2007 est.)

Palau
  $145 million (2005)

Panama
  $19.74 billion (2007 est.)

Papua New Guinea
  $6.001 billion (2007 est.)

Paraguay
  $10.87 billion (2007 est.)

Peru
  $109.1 billion (2007 est.)

Philippines
  $144.1 billion (2007 est.)

Poland
  $420.3 billion (2007 est.)

Portugal
  $223.3 billion (2007 est.)

Puerto Rico
  $NA (2007 est.)

Qatar
  $67.76 billion (2007 est.)

Romania
  $166 billion (2007 est.)

Russia
  $1.29 trillion (2007 est.)

Rwanda
  $3.32 billion (2007 est.)

Saint Helena
  $NA

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  $527 million (2007 est.)

Saint Lucia
  $958 million (2007 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  $NA

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  $559 million (2007 est.)

Samoa
  $397 million (2007 est.)

San Marino
  $1.048 billion (2004)

Sao Tome and Principe
  $144 million (2007 est.)

Saudi Arabia
  $376 billion (2007 est.)

Senegal
  $11.12 billion (2007 est.)

Serbia
  $41.68 billion (2007 est.)

Seychelles
  $710 million (2007 est.)

Sierra Leone
  $1.664 billion (2007 est.)

Singapore
  $161.3 billion (2007 est.)

Slovakia
  $74.99 billion (2007 est.)

Slovenia
  $46.08 billion (2007 est.)

Solomon Islands
  $358 million (2007 est.)

Somalia
  $2.509 billion (2007 est.)

South Africa
  $282.6 billion (2007 est.)

Spain
  $1.439 trillion (2007 est.)

Sri Lanka
  $30.01 billion (2007 est.)

Sudan
  $46.16 billion (2007 est.)

Suriname
  $2.404 billion (2007 est.)

Swaziland
  $2.936 billion (2007 est.)

Sweden
  $455.3 billion (2007 est.)

Switzerland
  $423.9 billion (2007 est.)

Syria
  $37.76 billion (2007 est.)

Taiwan
  $383.3 billion (2007 est.)

Tajikistan
  $3.712 billion (2007 est.)

Tanzania
  $16.18 billion (2007 est.)

Thailand
  $245.7 billion (2007 est.)

Timor-Leste
  $459 million (2007 est.)

Togo
  $2.497 billion (2007 est.)

Tokelau
  $NA

Tonga
  $219 million (2007 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  $20.7 billion (2007 est.)

Tunisia
  $35.01 billion (2007 est.)

Turkey
  $663.4 billion (2007 est.)

Turkmenistan
  $26.91 billion (2007 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  $NA

Tuvalu
  $14.94 million (2002)

Uganda
  $11.23 billion (2007 est.)

Ukraine
  $140.5 billion (2007 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  $192.6 billion (2007 est.)

United Kingdom
  $2.773 trillion (2007 est.)

United States
  $13.84 trillion (2007 est.)

Uruguay
  $22.95 billion (2007 est.)

Uzbekistan
  $22.31 billion (2007 est.)

Vanuatu
  $455 million (2007 est.)

Venezuela
  $236.4 billion (2007 est.)

Vietnam
  $70.02 billion (2007 est.)

Virgin Islands
  $NA

Wallis and Futuna
  $NA

West Bank
  $5.328 billion (includes Gaza Strip) (2006 est.)

Western Sahara
  $NA

World
  GWP (gross world product): $54.62 trillion (2007 est.)

Yemen
  $21.66 billion (2007 est.)

Zambia
  $11.16 billion (2007 est.)

Zimbabwe
  $641 million
  note: hyperinflation and the plunging value of the Zimbabwean dollar
  makes Zimbabwe's GDP at the official exchange rate a highly
  inaccurate statistic (2007 est.)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2196  Trafficking in persons


Albania
  current situation: Albania is a source country for women and
  girls trafficked for the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation
  and forced labor; it is no longer considered a major country of
  transit; Albanian victims are trafficked to Greece, Italy,
  Macedonia, and Kosovo, with many trafficked onward to Western
  European countries; children were also trafficked to Greece for
  begging and other forms of child labor; approximately half of all
  Albanian trafficking victims are under age 18; internal sex
  trafficking of women and children is on the rise
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Albania is on the Tier 2 Watch List
  for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to combat
  trafficking in persons in 2007, particularly in the area of victim
  protection; the government did not appropriately identify
  trafficking victims during 2007, and has not demonstrated that it is
  vigorously investigating or prosecuting complicit officials (2008)

Algeria
  current situation: Algeria is a transit country for men and
  women trafficked from sub-Saharan Africa to Europe for the purposes
  of commercial sexual exploitation and involuntary servitude;
  Algerian children are trafficked internally for the purpose of
  domestic servitude or street vending
  tier rating: Tier 3 - Algeria did not report any serious law
  enforcement actions to punish traffickers who force women into
  commercial sexual exploitation or men into involuntary servitude in
  2007; the government again reported no investigations of trafficking
  of children for domestic servitude or improvements in protection
  services available to victims of trafficking; Algeria still lacks
  victim protection services, and its failure to distinguish between
  trafficking and illegal migration may result in the punishment of
  victims of trafficking (2008)

Argentina
  current situation: Argentina is a source, transit, and
  destination country for men, women, and children trafficked for the
  purposes of commercial sexual exploitation and forced labor; most
  victims are trafficked within the country, from rural to urban
  areas; child sex tourism is a problem; foreign women and children,
  primarily from Paraguay, Brazil, and the Dominican Republic, are
  trafficked to Argentina for commercial sexual exploitation;
  Argentine women and girls are also trafficked to neighboring
  countries, Mexico, and Western Europe for sexual exploitation; a
  significant number of Bolivians, Peruvians, and Paraguayans are
  trafficked into the country for forced labor in sweatshops,
  agriculture, and as domestic servants
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - despite some progress, Argentina
  remains on the Tier 2 Watch List for the third consecutive year for
  its failure to show evidence of increasing efforts to combat human
  trafficking, particularly in terms of providing adequate assistance
  to victims and curbing official complicity with trafficking
  activity, especially on the provincial and local levels; the
  Argentine Congress has demonstrated progress by enacting much-needed
  and first-ever federal anti-trafficking legislation (2008)

Armenia
  current situation: Armenia is primarily a source country for
  women and girls trafficked to the UAE and Turkey for the purpose of
  commercial sexual exploitation; Armenian men and women are
  trafficked to Turkey and Russia for the purpose of forced labor
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Armenia is placed on the Tier 2
  Watch List for a fourth consecutive year; its efforts to increase
  compliance with the minimum standards were assessed based on its
  commitments to undertake future actions, particularly in the areas
  of improving victim protection and assistance; while the government
  elevated anti-trafficking responsibilities to the ministerial level,
  adopted a new National Action Plan, and drafted a National Referral
  Mechanism, it has yet to show tangible progress in identifying and
  protecting victims or in tackling trafficking complicity of
  government officials; the Armenian Government made some notable
  improvements in its anti-trafficking law enforcement efforts, but it
  failed to demonstrate evidence of investigations, prosecutions,
  convictions, and sentences of officials complicit in trafficking
  (2008)

Azerbaijan
  current situation: Azerbaijan is primarily a source and
  transit country for men, women, and children trafficked for the
  purposes of commercial sexual exploitation and forced labor; women
  and some children from Azerbaijan are trafficked to Turkey and the
  UAE for the purpose of sexual exploitation; men and boys are
  trafficked to Russia for the purpose of forced labor; Azerbaijan
  serves as a transit country for victims from Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan,
  Kazakhstan, and Moldova trafficked to Turkey and the UAE for sexual
  exploitation
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Azerbaijan is on the Tier 2 Watch
  List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to
  combat trafficking in persons, particularly efforts to investigate,
  prosecute, and punish traffickers; to address complicity among law
  enforcement personnel; and to adequately identify and protect
  victims in Azerbaijan; the government has yet to develop a
  much-needed mechanism to identify potential trafficking victims and
  refer them to safety and care; poor treatment of trafficking victims
  in courtrooms continues to be a problem (2008)

Bahrain
  current situation: Bahrain is a destination country for men
  and women trafficked for the purposes of involuntary servitude and
  commercial sexual exploitation; men and women from Africa, South
  Asia, and Southeast Asia migrate voluntarily to Bahrain to work as
  laborers or domestic servants where some face conditions of
  involuntary servitude such as unlawful withholding of passports,
  restrictions on movements, non-payment of wages, threats, and
  physical or sexual abuse; women from Thailand, Morocco, Eastern
  Europe, and Central Asia are trafficked to Bahrain for the purpose
  of commercial sexual exploitation
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Bahrain is on the Tier 2 Watch List
  for failing to show evidence of increased efforts to combat human
  trafficking, particularly efforts that enforce laws against
  trafficking in persons, and that prevent the punishment of victims
  of trafficking; during 2007, Bahrain passed a comprehensive law
  prohibiting all forms of trafficking in persons; the government also
  established a specialized anti-trafficking unit within the Ministry
  of Interior to investigate trafficking crimes; however, the
  government did not report any prosecutions or convictions for
  trafficking offenses during 2007, despite reports of a substantial
  problem of involuntary servitude and sex trafficking (2008)

Burma
  current situation: Burma is a source country for women,
  children, and men trafficked for the purpose of forced labor and
  commercial sexual exploitation; Burmese women and children are
  trafficked to East and Southeast Asia for commercial sexual
  exploitation, domestic servitude, and forced labor; Burmese children
  are subjected to conditions of forced labor in Thailand as hawkers,
  beggars, and for work in shops, agriculture, fish processing, and
  small-scale industries; women are trafficked for commercial sexual
  exploitation to Malaysia and China; some trafficking victims transit
  Burma from Bangladesh to Malaysia and from China to Thailand;
  internal trafficking occurs primarily from villages to urban centers
  and economic hubs for labor in industrial zones, agricultural
  estates, and commercial sexual exploitation; military and civilian
  officials continue to use a significant amount of forced labor;
  ethnic insurgent groups also used compulsory labor of adults and
  unlawful recruitment of children; the military junta's gross
  economic mismanagement, human rights abuses, and its policy of using
  forced labor are the top causal factors for Burma's significant
  trafficking problem
  tier rating: Tier 3 - Burma does not fully comply with the minimum
  standards for the elimination of trafficking and is not making
  significant efforts to do so; military and civilian officials remain
  directly involved in significant acts of forced labor and unlawful
  conscription of child soldiers (2008)

Burundi
  current situation: Burundi is a source country for children
  trafficked for the purposes of child soldiering, domestic servitude,
  and commercial sexual exploitation; a small number of Burundian
  children may be trafficked internally for domestic servitude or
  commercial sexual exploitation; in early 2008, Burundian children
  were allegedly trafficked to Uganda, via Rwanda, for agricultural
  labor and commercial sexual exploitation
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Burundi is on the Tier 2 Watch List
  for the second consecutive year for its failure to provide
  sufficient evidence of increasing efforts to combat trafficking in
  persons in 2007; the government's inability to provide adequate
  protective services to children accused of association with armed
  groups and to conduct anti-trafficking law enforcement activities
  continue to be causes for concern; Burundi has not ratified the 2000
  UN TIP Protocol (2008)

Cameroon
  current situation: Cameroon is a source, transit, and
  destination country for women and children trafficked for the
  purposes of forced labor and commercial sexual exploitation; most
  victims are children trafficked within country, with girls primarily
  trafficked for domestic servitude and sexual exploitation; both boys
  and girls are also trafficked within Cameroon for forced labor in
  sweatshops, bars, restaurants, and on tea and cocoa plantations;
  children are trafficked into Cameroon from neighboring states for
  forced labor in agriculture, fishing, street vending, and
  spare-parts shops; Cameroon is a transit country for children
  trafficked between Gabon and Nigeria, and from Nigeria to Saudi
  Arabia; it is a source country for women transported by
  sex-trafficking rings to Europe
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Cameroon is on the Tier 2 Watch
  List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to
  combat human trafficking in 2007, particularly in terms of efforts
  to prosecute and convict trafficking offenders; while Cameroon
  reported some arrests of traffickers, none of them were prosecuted
  or punished; the government does not identify trafficking victims
  among vulnerable populations nor does it monitor the number of
  victims it intercepts (2008)

Central African Republic
  current situation: Central African Republic
  is a source, transit, and destination country for men, women, and
  children trafficked for the purposes of forced labor and sexual
  exploitation; the majority of victims are children trafficked within
  the country for sexual exploitation, domestic servitude, street
  vending, and forced agricultural, mine, market and restaurant labor;
  to a lesser extent, children are trafficked from the Central African
  Republic to Cameroon, Nigeria, and the Democratic Republic of Congo;
  rebels conscript children into armed forces within the country
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Central African Republic is on the
  Tier 2 Watch List for the third consecutive year for its failure to
  show evidence of increasing efforts to combat trafficking in 2007;
  efforts to address trafficking through vigorous law enforcement
  measures and victim protection efforts were minimal, though
  awareness about trafficking appeared to be increasing in the
  country; the government does not actively investigate cases, work to
  identify trafficking victims among vulnerable populations, or rescue
  and provide care to victims; the government has not taken measures
  to reduce demand for commercial sex acts (2008)

Chad
  current situation: Chad is a source, transit, and destination
  country for children trafficked for the purposes of forced labor and
  commercial sexual exploitation; the majority of children are
  trafficked within Chad for involuntary domestic servitude, forced
  cattle herding, forced begging, forced labor in petty commerce or
  the fishing industry, or for commercial sexual exploitation; to a
  lesser extent, Chadian children are also trafficked to Cameroon, the
  Central African Republic, and Nigeria for cattle herding; children
  may also be trafficked from Cameroon and the Central African
  Republic to Chad's oil producing regions for sexual exploitation
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Chad is on the Tier 2 Watch List
  for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to combat
  human trafficking in 2007; Chad was destabilized during 2007 by
  civil conflict leading to a declared state of emergency in February
  2008, and a steady influx of refugees fleeing Sudan and the Central
  African Republic; the government demonstrated insufficient overall
  efforts to combat trafficking; Chad has not ratified the 2000 UN TIP
  Protocol (2008)

China
  current situation: China is a source, transit, and destination
  country for men, women, and children trafficked for the purposes of
  sexual exploitation and forced labor; the majority of trafficking in
  China occurs within the country's borders, but there is also
  considerable international trafficking of Chinese citizens to
  Africa, Asia, Europe, Latin America, the Middle East, and North
  America; Chinese women are lured abroad through false promises of
  legitimate employment, only to be forced into commercial sexual
  exploitation, largely in Taiwan, Thailand, Malaysia, and Japan;
  women and children are trafficked to China from Mongolia, Burma,
  North Korea, Russia, and Vietnam for forced labor, marriage, and
  prostitution; some North Korean women and children seeking to leave
  their country voluntarily cross the border into China and are then
  sold into prostitution, marriage, or forced labor
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - China is on the Tier 2 Watch List
  for the fourth consecutive year for its failure to provide evidence
  of increasing efforts to combat human trafficking, particularly in
  terms of punishment of trafficking crimes and the protection of
  Chinese and foreign victims of trafficking; victims are sometimes
  punished for unlawful acts that were committed as a direct result of
  their being trafficked, such as violations of prostitution or
  immigration/emigration controls; the Chinese Government continued to
  treat North Korean victims of trafficking solely as economic
  migrants, routinely deporting them back to horrendous conditions in
  North Korea; additional challenges facing the Chinese Government
  include the enormous size of its trafficking problem and the
  significant level of corruption and complicity in trafficking by
  some local government officials (2008)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  current situation: Democratic
  Republic of the Congo is a source and destination country for men,
  women, and children trafficked for the purposes of forced labor and
  sexual exploitation; much of this trafficking occurs within the
  country's unstable eastern provinces and is perpetrated by armed
  groups outside government control
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Democratic Republic of the Congo is
  on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to provide evidence of
  increasing efforts to combat trafficking in persons in 2007; while
  some significant initial advances were noted, the government's
  capacity to apprehend, convict, or imprison traffickers remained
  weak; the government lacks sufficient financial, technical, and
  human resources to effectively address not only trafficking crimes,
  but also to provide basic levels of security in some parts of the
  country (2008)

Congo, Republic of the
  current situation: Republic of the Congo is a
  source and destination country for children trafficked for the
  purposes of forced labor and commercial sexual exploitation; girls
  are trafficked from rural areas within the country for commercial
  sexual exploitation, forced street vending, and domestic servitude;
  children are trafficked from other African countries for domestic
  servitude, forced market vending, and forced labor in the fishing
  industry
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Republic of the Congo is on the
  Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to show evidence of increasing
  efforts to combat trafficking in persons in 2007; struggling to
  recover from six years of civil conflict that ended in 2003, the
  Republic of the Congo's capacity to address trafficking is
  handicapped; the government neither monitors its borders for
  trafficking activity nor provides specialized anti-trafficking
  training for law enforcement officials; the government does not
  encourage victims to assist in trafficking investigations or
  prosecutions, and has not taken measures to reduce demand for
  commercial sex acts in the Republic of the Congo (2008)

Costa Rica
  current situation: Costa Rica is a source, transit, and
  destination country for men, women, and children trafficked for the
  purposes of commercial sexual exploitation and forced labor; women
  and girls from neighboring states, Russia, Uzbekistan, and the
  Philippines are trafficked into the country for sexual exploitation;
  Costa Rica also serves as a transit point for victims trafficked to
  North America and Europe; the government identifies child sex
  tourism as a serious problem; men, women, and children are also
  trafficked within the country for forced labor in fishing and
  construction, and as domestic servants
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Costa Rica is on the Tier 2 Watch
  List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to
  combat human trafficking, particularly in terms of its failure to
  improve its inadequate assistance to victims; while Costa Rican
  officials recognize human trafficking as a serious problem, the lack
  of a stronger response by the government is of concern (2008)

Cote d'Ivoire
  Cote d'Ivoire is a source, transit, and destination
  country for women and children trafficked for forced labor and
  commercial sexual exploitation; trafficking within the country is
  more prevalent than international trafficking and the majority of
  victims are children; women and girls are trafficked from northern
  areas to southern cities for domestic servitude, restaurant labor,
  and sexual exploitation; boys are trafficked internally for
  agricultural and service labor and transnationally for forced labor
  in agriculture, mining, construction, and in the fishing industry;
  women and girls are trafficked to and from other West and Central
  African countries for domestic servitude and forced street vending
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Cote d'Ivoire is on the Tier 2
  Watch List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts
  to eliminate trafficking in 2007, particularly with regard to its
  law enforcement efforts and protection of sex trafficking victims;
  in addition, Ivoirian law does not prohibit all forms of
  trafficking, and Cote d'Ivoire has not ratified the 2000 UN TIP
  Protocol (2008)

Cuba
  current situation: Cuba is principally a source country for
  women and children trafficked within the country for the purpose of
  commercial sexual exploitation and possibly for forced labor; the
  country is a destination for sex tourism, including child sex
  tourism, which is a problem in many areas of the country; some Cuban
  nationals willingly migrate to the United States, but are
  subsequently exploited for forced labor by their smugglers; Cuba is
  also a transit point for the smuggling of migrants from China, Sri
  Lanka, Bangladesh, Lebanon, and other nations to the United States
  and Canada
  tier rating: Tier 3 - Cuba does not fully comply with the minimum
  standards for the elimination of trafficking and is not making
  significant efforts to do so; exact information about trafficking in
  Cuba is difficult to obtain because the government does not
  acknowledge or condemn human trafficking as a problem in Cuba;
  tangible efforts to prosecute offenders, protect victims, or prevent
  human trafficking activity do not appear to have been made during
  2007; Cuba has not ratified the 2000 UN TIP Protocol (2008)

Cyprus
  current situation: Cyprus is primarily a destination country
  for a large number of women trafficked from Eastern and Central
  Europe, the Philippines, and the Dominican Republic for the purpose
  of sexual exploitation; traffickers continued to fraudulently
  recruit victims for work as dancers in cabarets and nightclubs on
  short-term "artiste" visas, for work in pubs and bars on employment
  visas, or for illegal work on tourist or student visas
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Cyprus is on the Tier 2 Watch List
  for a third consecutive year for failure to show evidence of
  increasing efforts to combat human trafficking during 2007; although
  Cyprus passed a new trafficking law and opened a government
  trafficking shelter, these efforts are outweighed by its failure to
  show tangible and critically needed progress in the areas of law
  enforcement, victim protection, and the prevention of trafficking
  (2008)

Dominican Republic
  current situation: the Dominican Republic is a
  source, transit, and destination country for men, women, and
  children trafficked for the purposes of commercial sexual
  exploitation and forced labor; a large number of Dominican women are
  trafficked into prostitution and sexual exploitation in Western
  Europe, Australia, Central and South America, and Caribbean
  destinations; a significant number of women, boys, and girls are
  trafficked within the country for sexual exploitation and domestic
  servitude
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - for a second consecutive year, the
  Dominican Republic is on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to
  show evidence of increasing efforts to combat human trafficking,
  particularly in terms of not adequately investigating and
  prosecuting public officials who may be complicit with trafficking
  activity, and inadequate government efforts to protect trafficking
  victims; the government has taken measures to reduce demand for
  commercial sex acts with children through criminal prosecutions
  (2008)

Egypt
  current situation: Egypt is a transit country for women
  trafficked from Eastern European countries to Israel for sexual
  exploitation, and is a source for children trafficked within the
  country for commercial sexual exploitation and domestic servitude,
  although the extent to which children are trafficked internally is
  unknown; children were also recruited for domestic and agricultural
  work; some of these children face conditions of involuntary
  servitude, such as restrictions on movement, non-payment of wages,
  threats, and physical or sexual abuse
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Egypt is on the Tier 2 Watch List
  for the third year in a row because it did not provide evidence of
  increasing efforts to investigate and prosecute traffickers;
  however, in July 2007, the government established the "National
  Coordinating Committee to Combat and Prevent Trafficking in
  Persons," which improved inter-governmental coordination on
  anti-trafficking initiatives; Egypt made no discernible efforts to
  punish trafficking crimes in 2007 and the Egyptian penal code does
  not prohibit all forms of trafficking; Egypt did not increase its
  services to trafficking victims during the reporting period (2008)

Equatorial Guinea
  current situation: Equatorial Guinea is primarily
  a destination country for children trafficked for the purpose of
  forced labor and possibly for the purpose of sexual exploitation;
  children have been trafficked from nearby countries for domestic
  servitude, market labor, ambulant vending, and possibly sexual
  exploitation; women may also be trafficked to Equatorial Guinea from
  Cameroon, Benin, other neighboring countries, and China for sexual
  exploitation
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Equatorial Guinea is on the Tier 2
  Watch List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts
  to eliminate trafficking, particularly in the areas of prosecuting
  and convicting trafficking offenders and failing to formalize
  mechanisms to provide assistance to victims; although the government
  made some effort to enforce laws against child labor exploitation,
  it failed to report any trafficking prosecutions or convictions in
  2007; the government continued to lack shelters or formal procedures
  for providing care to victims (2008)

Fiji
  current situation: Fiji is a source country for children
  trafficked for the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation and a
  destination country for a small number of women from China and India
  trafficked for the purposes of forced labor and commercial sexual
  exploitation
  tier rating: Tier 3 - Fiji does not fully comply with the minimum
  standards for the elimination of trafficking and is not making
  significant efforts to do so; the government has demonstrated no
  action to investigate or prosecute traffickers, assist victims, take
  steps to reduce the demand for commercial sex acts, or support any
  anti-trafficking information or education campaigns; Fiji has not
  ratified the 2000 UN TIP Protocol (2008)

Gabon
  current situation: Gabon is predominantly a destination
  country for children trafficked from other African countries for the
  purpose of forced labor; girls are primarily trafficked for domestic
  servitude, forced market vending, forced restaurant labor, and
  sexual exploitation, while boys are trafficked for forced street
  hawking and forced labor in small workshops
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Gabon is on the Tier 2 Watch List
  for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to combat
  human trafficking in 2007, particularly in terms of efforts to
  convict and punish trafficking offenders; the government has not
  reported the convictions or sentences of any trafficking offenders;
  the government did not take steps to reduce demand for commercial
  sex acts (2008)

Gambia, The
  current situation: The Gambia is a source, transit, and
  destination country for children and women trafficked for the
  purposes of forced labor and commercial sexual exploitation; women
  and girls, and to a lesser extent boys, are trafficked for sexual
  exploitation - in particular to meet the demand for European sex
  tourism - and for domestic servitude; boys are trafficked within the
  country for forced begging and street vending; Gambian women and
  children may be trafficked to Europe through trafficking schemes
  disguised as migrant smuggling
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - for a second consecutive year, The
  Gambia is on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to provide
  evidence of increasing efforts to eliminate trafficking; The Gambia
  failed to report any trafficking arrests, prosecutions, or
  convictions in 2007, and the government demonstrated weak victim
  protection efforts during the reporting period (2008)

Guatemala
  current situation: Guatemala is a source, transit, and
  destination country for Guatemalans and Central Americans trafficked
  for the purposes of commercial sexual exploitation and forced labor;
  human trafficking is a significant and growing problem in the
  country; Guatemalan women and children are trafficked within the
  country for commercial sexual exploitation, primarily to Mexico and
  the United States; Guatemalan men, women, and children are also
  trafficked within the country, and to Mexico and the United States,
  for forced labor
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - for a second consecutive year,
  Guatemala is on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to provide
  evidence of increasing efforts to combat trafficking in persons,
  particularly with respect to ensuring that trafficking offenders are
  appropriately prosecuted for their crimes; while prosecutors
  initiated trafficking prosecutions, they continued to face problems
  in court with application of Guatemala's comprehensive
  anti-trafficking law; the government made modest improvements to its
  protection efforts, but assistance remained inadequate overall in
  2007 (2008)

Guinea
  current situation: Guinea is a source, transit, and
  destination country for men, women, and children trafficked for the
  purposes of forced labor and sexual exploitation; the majority of
  victims are children, and internal trafficking is more prevalent
  than transnational trafficking; within the country, girls are
  trafficked primarily for domestic servitude and sexual exploitation,
  while boys are trafficked for forced agricultural labor, and as
  forced beggars, street vendors, shoe shiners, and laborers in gold
  and diamond mines; some Guinean men are also trafficked for
  agricultural labor within Guinea; transnationally, girls are
  trafficked into Guinea for domestic servitude and likely also for
  sexual exploitation
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Guinea is on the Tier 2 Watch List
  for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to
  eliminate trafficking over 2006; Guinea demonstrated minimal law
  enforcement efforts for a second year in a row, while protection
  efforts diminished over efforts in 2006; the government did not
  report any trafficking convictions in 2007; due to a lack of
  resources, the government does not provide shelter services for
  trafficking victims; the government took no measures to reduce the
  demand for commercial sexual exploitation (2008)

Guinea-Bissau
  current situation: Guinea-Bissau is a source country
  for children trafficked primarily for forced begging and forced
  agricultural labor to other West African countries
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - for the second year in a row,
  Guinea-Bissau is on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to combat
  severe forms of trafficking in persons, as evidenced by the
  continued failure to pass an anti-trafficking law and inadequate
  efforts to investigate or prosecute trafficking crimes or convict
  and punish trafficking offenders (2008)

Guyana
  current situation: Guyana is a source, transit, and
  destination country for men, women, and children trafficked for the
  purposes of commercial sexual exploitation and forced labor; most
  trafficking appears to take place in remote mining camps in the
  country's interior; some women and girls are trafficked from
  northern Brazil; reporting from other nations suggests Guyanese
  women and girls are trafficked for sexual exploitation to
  neighboring countries and Guyanese men and boys are subject to labor
  exploitation in construction and agriculture; trafficking victims
  from Suriname, Brazil, and Venezuela transit Guyana en route to
  Caribbean destinations
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - for a second consecutive year,
  Guyana is on the Tier 2 Watch List for failing to provide evidence
  of increasing efforts to combat trafficking, particularly in the
  area of law enforcement actions against trafficking offenders; the
  government has yet to produce an anti-trafficking conviction under
  the comprehensive Combating of Trafficking in Persons Act, which
  became law in 2005; the government operates no shelters for
  trafficking victims, but did include limited funding for
  anti-trafficking NGOs in its 2008 budget; the government did not
  make any effort to reduce demand for commercial sex acts during 2007
  (2008)

India
  current situation: India is a source, destination, and transit
  country for men, women, and children trafficked for the purposes of
  forced labor and commercial sexual exploitation; internal forced
  labor may constitute India's largest trafficking problem; men,
  women, and children are held in debt bondage and face forced labor
  working in brick kilns, rice mills, agriculture, and embroidery
  factories; women and girls are trafficked within the country for the
  purposes of commercial sexual exploitation and forced marriage;
  children are subjected to forced labor as factory workers, domestic
  servants, beggars, and agriculture workers, and have been used as
  armed combatants by some terrorist and insurgent groups; India is
  also a destination for women and girls from Nepal and Bangladesh
  trafficked for the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation; Indian
  women are trafficked to the Middle East for commercial sexual
  exploitation; men and women from Bangladesh and Nepal are trafficked
  through India for forced labor and commercial sexual exploitation in
  the Middle East
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - India is on the Tier 2 Watch List
  for a fifth consecutive year for its failure to provide evidence of
  increasing efforts to combat human trafficking in 2007; despite the
  reported extent of the trafficking crisis in India, government
  authorities made uneven efforts to prosecute traffickers and protect
  trafficking victims; government authorities continued to rescue
  victims of commercial sexual exploitation and forced child labor and
  child armed combatants, and began to show progress in law
  enforcement against these forms of trafficking; a critical challenge
  overall is the lack of punishment for traffickers, effectively
  resulting in impunity for acts of human trafficking; India has not
  ratified the 2000 UN TIP Protocol (2008)

Iran
  current situation: Iran is a source, transit, and destination
  country for women trafficked for the purposes of sexual exploitation
  and involuntary servitude; Iranian women are trafficked internally
  for the purpose of forced prostitution and for forced marriages to
  settle debts; Iranian children are trafficked internally and Afghan
  children are trafficked into Iran for the purpose of forced
  marriages, commercial sexual exploitation, and involuntary servitude
  as beggars or laborers
  tier rating: Tier 3 - Iran did not provide evidence of law
  enforcement activities against trafficking, and credible reports
  indicate that Iranian authorities punish victims of trafficking with
  beatings, imprisonment, and execution; Iran has not ratified the
  2000 UN TIP Protocol (2008)

Jordan
  current situation: Jordan is a destination and transit
  country for women and men from South and Southeast Asia trafficked
  for the purpose of forced labor; Jordan is also a destination for
  women from Eastern Europe and Morocco for prostitution; women from
  Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Indonesia, and the Philippines migrate
  willingly to work as domestic servants, but some are subjected to
  conditions of forced labor, including unlawful withholding of
  passports, restrictions on movement, non-payment of wages, threats,
  and physical or sexual abuse
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Jordan is on the Tier 2 Watch List
  for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to combat
  trafficking in persons in 2007, particularly in the area of law
  enforcement against trafficking for forced labor; the government
  made minimal efforts to investigate or prosecute numerous
  allegations related to exploitation of foreign domestic workers;
  Jordan failed for a second year to criminally prosecute and punish
  those who committed acts of forced labor; Jordan also continues to
  lack victim protection services; Jordan has not ratified the 2000 UN
  TIP Protocol (2008)

Korea, North
  current situation: North Korea is a source country for
  men, women, and children trafficked for the purposes of forced labor
  and commercial sexual exploitation; the most common form of
  trafficking involves North Korean women and girls who cross the
  border into China voluntarily; additionally, North Korean women and
  girls are lured out of North Korea to escape poor social and
  economic conditions by the promise of food, jobs, and freedom, only
  to be forced into prostitution, marriage, or exploitative labor
  arrangements once in China
  tier rating: Tier 3 - North Korea does not fully comply with minimum
  standards for the elimination of trafficking and is not making
  significant efforts to do so; the government does not acknowledge
  the existence of human rights abuses in the country or recognize
  trafficking, either within the country or transnationally; North
  Korea has not ratified the 2000 UN TIP Protocol (2008)

Kuwait
  current situation: Kuwait is a destination country for men
  and women who migrate legally from South and Southeast Asia for
  domestic or low-skilled labor, but are subjected to conditions of
  involuntary servitude by employers in Kuwait including conditions of
  physical and sexual abuse, non-payment of wages, confinement to the
  home, and withholding of passports to restrict their freedom of
  movement; Kuwait is reportedly a transit point for South and East
  Asian workers recruited for low-skilled work in Iraq; some of these
  workers are deceived as to the true location and nature of this
  work, and others are subjected to conditions of involuntary
  servitude in Iraq
  tier rating: Tier 3 - insufficient efforts in 2007 to prosecute and
  punish abusive employers and those who traffic women for sexual
  exploitation; the government failed for the fourth year in a row to
  live up to promises to provide shelter and protective services for
  victims of involuntary domestic servitude and other forms of
  trafficking (2008)

Libya
  current situation: Libya is a transit and destination country
  for men and women from sub-Saharan Africa and Asia trafficked for
  the purposes of forced labor and commercial sexual exploitation
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Libya is on the Tier 2 Watch List
  for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to address
  trafficking in persons in 2007 when compared to 2006, particularly
  in the area of investigating and prosecuting trafficking offenses;
  Libya did not publicly release any data on investigations or
  punishment of any trafficking offenses (2008)

Malaysia
  current situation: Malaysia is a destination and, to a
  lesser extent, a source and transit country for women and children
  trafficked for the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation, and
  men, women, and children for forced labor; Malaysia is mainly a
  destination country for men, women, and children who migrate
  willingly from South and Southeast Asia to work, some of whom are
  subjected to conditions of involuntary servitude by Malaysian
  employers in the domestic, agricultural, construction, plantation,
  and industrial sectors; to a lesser extent, some Malaysian women,
  primarily of Chinese ethnicity, are trafficked abroad for commercial
  sexual exploitation
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Malaysia improved from Tier 3 to
  the Tier 2 Watch List for 2008 when it enacted comprehensive
  anti-trafficking legislation in July 2007; however, it did not take
  action against exploitative employers or labor traffickers in 2007;
  the government has not ratified the 2000 UN TIP Protocol (2008)

Moldova
  current situation: Moldova is a major source and, to a
  lesser extent, a transit country for women and girls trafficked for
  the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation; Moldovan women are
  trafficked to the Middle East, Eastern Europe, and Western Europe;
  girls and young women are trafficked within the country from rural
  areas to Chisinau; children are also trafficked to neighboring
  countries for forced labor and begging; labor trafficking of men to
  work in the construction, agriculture, and service sectors of Russia
  is increasingly a problem
  tier rating: Tier 3 - Moldova does not fully comply with the minimum
  standards for the elimination of trafficking and is not making
  significant efforts to do so; the government failed to follow-up on
  allegations of officials complicit in trafficking cited in the 2007
  Report, and it did not demonstrate proactive efforts to identify
  trafficking victims (2008)

Montenegro
  current situation: Montenegro is primarily a transit
  country for the trafficking of women and girls to Western Europe for
  the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation; women and girls from
  the Balkans and Eastern Europe are trafficked across Montenegro to
  Western European countries
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Montenegro is on the Tier 2 Watch
  List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to
  combat trafficking in persons in 2007; public attention to the issue
  of trafficking has diminished considerably in Montenegro in recent
  years (2008)

Mozambique
  current situation: Mozambique is a source and, to a much
  lesser extent, a destination country for men, women, and children
  trafficked for the purposes of forced labor and sexual exploitation;
  the use of forced and bonded child laborers is a common practice in
  Mozambique's rural areas; women and girls are trafficked from rural
  to urban areas of Mozambique, as well as to South Africa, for
  domestic servitude and commercial sexual exploitation; young men and
  boys are trafficked to South Africa for farm work and mining
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - for the second consecutive year,
  Mozambique is on the Tier 2 Watch List for its failure to provide
  evidence of increasing efforts to combat human trafficking in 2007;
  while the government conducted investigations into cases of human
  trafficking, there were no prosecutions or convictions of
  traffickers; government efforts to protect victims of trafficking
  continued to suffer from limited resources and a lack of political
  commitment (2008)

Niger
  current situation: Niger is a source, transit, and destination
  country for children and women trafficked for forced labor and
  sexual exploitation; caste-based slavery practices, rooted in
  ancestral master-slave relationships, continue in isolated areas of
  the country - an estimated 8,800 to 43,000 Nigeriens live under
  conditions of traditional slavery; children are trafficked within
  Niger for forced begging, forced labor in gold mines, domestic
  servitude, sexual exploitation, and possibly for forced labor in
  agriculture and stone quarries; women and children from neighboring
  states are trafficked to and through Niger for domestic servitude,
  sexual exploitation, forced labor in mines and on farms, and as
  mechanics and welders
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Niger is on the Tier 2 Watch List
  for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to
  eliminate trafficking in 2007; in particular, measures to combat and
  eliminate traditional slavery practices were weak; the government's
  overall law enforcement efforts have stalled from 2006; while
  efforts to protect child trafficking victims were steady, the
  government failed to provide services to or rescue adult victims
  subjected to traditional slavery practices, and made poor efforts to
  educate the public about traditional slavery practices in general
  (2008)

Oman
  current situation: Oman is a destination country for men and
  women primarily from Bangladesh, India, Sri Lanka, and Pakistan who
  migrate willingly, but some of whom become victims of trafficking
  when subjected to conditions of involuntary servitude as domestic
  workers and laborers; mistreatment includes non-payment of wages,
  restrictions on movement and withholding of passports, threats, and
  physical or sexual abuse; Oman may also be a destination country for
  women from Asia, Eastern Europe, and North Africa for commercial
  sexual exploitation
  tier rating: Tier 3 - Oman was rated as Tier 3 for the second
  consecutive year because it did not report any law enforcement
  efforts to prosecute and punish trafficking offenses in 2007 and
  continues to lack victim protection services or a systematic
  procedure to identify victims of trafficking (2008)

Panama
  current situation: Panama is a source, transit, and
  destination country for women and children trafficked for the
  purpose of commercial sexual exploitation; the majority of victims
  are Panamanian women and children trafficked within the country into
  the sex trade; rural children in Panama may be trafficked internally
  to urban areas for labor exploitation
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Panama is on the Tier 2 Watch List
  for failing to show evidence of increasing efforts to combat human
  trafficking, particularly with respect to prosecuting, convicting,
  and sentencing human traffickers for their crimes, and for failing
  to provide adequate victim assistance (2008)

Papua New Guinea
  current situation: Papua New Guinea is a country of
  destination for women and children from Malaysia, the Philippines,
  Thailand, and China trafficked for the purpose of commercial sexual
  exploitation; internal trafficking of women and children for the
  purposes of sexual exploitation and involuntary domestic servitude
  occurs as well
  tier rating: Tier 3 - Papua New Guinea does not fully comply with
  the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking and is not
  making significant efforts to do so; the current legal framework
  does not contain elements of crimes that characterize trafficking;
  the government lacks victim protection services or a systematic
  procedure to identify victims of trafficking; the government did not
  prosecute anyone in 2007 for trafficking; Papua New Guinea has not
  ratified the 2000 UN TIP Protocol (2008)

Qatar
  current situation: Qatar is a destination country for men and
  women from South and Southeast Asia who migrate willingly, but are
  subsequently trafficked into involuntary servitude as domestic
  workers and laborers, and, to a lesser extent, commercial sexual
  exploitation; the most common offense was forcing workers to accept
  worse contract terms than those under which they were recruited;
  other conditions include bonded labor, withholding of pay,
  restrictions on movement, arbitrary detention, and physical, mental,
  and sexual abuse
  tier rating: Tier 3 - Qatar failed, for the second consecutive year,
  to enforce criminal laws against traffickers, or to provide an
  effective mechanism to identify and protect victims; it continues to
  detain and deport victims rather than providing them protection; the
  government made little progress to increase prosecutions for
  trafficking in a meaningful way in 2007; workers complaining of
  working conditions or non-payment of wages were sometimes penalized
  (2008)

Russia
  current situation: Russia is a source, transit, and
  destination country for men, women, and children trafficked for
  various purposes; it remains a significant source of women
  trafficked to over 50 countries for commercial sexual exploitation;
  Russia is also a transit and destination country for men and women
  trafficked from Central Asia, Eastern Europe, and North Korea to
  Central and Western Europe and the Middle East for purposes of
  forced labor and sexual exploitation; internal trafficking remains a
  problem in Russia with women trafficked from rural areas to urban
  centers for commercial sexual exploitation, and men trafficked
  internally and from Central Asia for forced labor in the
  construction and agricultural industries; debt bondage is common
  among trafficking victims, and child sex tourism remains a concern
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Russia is on the Tier 2 Watch List
  for a fifth consecutive year for its failure to show evidence of
  increasing efforts to combat trafficking over the previous year,
  particularly in providing assistance to victims of trafficking;
  comprehensive trafficking victim assistance legislation, which would
  address key deficiencies, has been pending before the Duma since
  2003 and was neither passed nor enacted in 2007 (2008)

Saudi Arabia
  current situation: Saudi Arabia is a destination
  country for workers from South and Southeast Asia who are subjected
  to conditions that constitute involuntary servitude including being
  subjected to physical and sexual abuse, non-payment of wages,
  confinement, and withholding of passports as a restriction on their
  movement; domestic workers are particularly vulnerable because some
  are confined to the house in which they work unable to seek help;
  Saudi Arabia is also a destination country for Nigerian, Yemeni,
  Pakistani, Afghan, Somali, Malian, and Sudanese children trafficked
  for forced begging and involuntary servitude as street vendors; some
  Nigerian women were reportedly trafficked into Saudi Arabia for
  commercial sexual exploitation
  tier rating: Tier 3 - Saudi Arabia does not fully comply with the
  minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking and is not
  making significant efforts to do so; the government continues to
  lack adequate anti-trafficking laws and, despite evidence of
  widespread trafficking abuses, did not report any criminal
  prosecutions, convictions, or prison sentences for trafficking
  crimes committed against foreign domestic workers (2008)

South Africa
  current situation: South Africa is a source, transit,
  and destination country for men, women, and children trafficked for
  forced labor and sexual exploitation; women and girls are trafficked
  internally - and occasionally to European and Asian countries - for
  sexual exploitation; women from other African countries are
  trafficked to South Africa and, less frequently, onward to Europe
  for sexual exploitation; men and boys are trafficked from
  neighboring countries for forced agricultural labor; Asian and
  Eastern European women are trafficked to South Africa for
  debt-bonded sexual exploitation
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - South Africa is on the Tier 2 Watch
  List for a fourth consecutive year for its failure to show
  increasing efforts to address trafficking; the government provided
  inadequate data in 2007 on trafficking crimes investigated or
  prosecuted, or on resulting convictions or sentences; it also did
  not provide information on its efforts to protect victims of
  trafficking; the country continues to deport and/or prosecute
  suspected foreign victims without providing appropriate protective
  services (2008)

Sri Lanka
  current situation: Sri Lanka is a source and destination
  country for men and women trafficked for the purposes of involuntary
  servitude and commercial sexual exploitation; Sri Lankan men and
  women migrate willingly to the Persian Gulf, Middle East, and East
  Asia to work as construction workers, domestic servants, or garment
  factory workers, where some find themselves in situations of
  involuntary servitude when faced with restrictions on movement,
  withholding of passports, threats, physical or sexual abuse, and
  debt bondage; children are trafficked internally for commercial
  sexual exploitation and, less frequently, for forced labor
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - for a second consecutive year, Sri
  Lanka is on the Tier 2 Watch List for failing to provide evidence of
  increasing efforts to combat severe forms of human trafficking,
  particularly in the area of law enforcement; the government failed
  to arrest, prosecute, or convict any person for trafficking offenses
  and continued to punish some victims of trafficking for crimes
  committed as a result of being trafficked; Sri Lanka has not
  ratified the 2000 UN TIP Protocol (2008)

Sudan
  current situation: Sudan is a source country for men, women,
  and children trafficked internally for the purposes of forced labor
  and sexual exploitation; Sudan is also a transit and destination
  country for Ethiopian women trafficked abroad for domestic
  servitude; Sudanese women and girls are trafficked within the
  country, as well as possibly to Middle Eastern countries for
  domestic servitude; the terrorist rebel organization, Lord's
  Resistance Army, continues to harbor small numbers of Sudanese and
  Ugandan children in the southern part of the country for use as
  cooks, porters, and combatants; some of these children are also
  trafficked across borders into Uganda or the Democratic Republic of
  the Congo; militia groups in Darfur, some of which are linked to the
  government, abduct women for short periods of forced labor and to
  perpetrate sexual violence; during the two decades-long north-south
  civil war, thousands of Dinka women and children were abducted and
  subsequently enslaved by members of the Missiriya and Rezeigat
  tribes; while there have been no known new abductions of Dinka by
  members of Baggara tribes in the last few years, inter-tribal
  abductions continue in southern Sudan
  tier rating: Tier 3 - Sudan does not fully comply with the minimum
  standards for the elimination of trafficking and is not making
  significant efforts to do so; combating human trafficking through
  law enforcement or prevention measures was not a priority for the
  government in 2007 (2008)

Syria
  current situation: Syria is a destination and transit country
  for women and children trafficked for commercial sexual exploitation
  and forced labor; a significant number of women and children in the
  large and expanding Iraqi refugee community in Syria are reportedly
  forced into commercial sexual exploitation by Iraqi gangs or, in
  some cases, their families; women from Indonesia, Sri Lanka, the
  Philippines, Ethiopia, and Sierra Leone are recruited for work in
  Syria as domestic servants, but some face conditions of involuntary
  servitude, including long hours, non-payment of wages, withholding
  of passports, restrictions on movement, threats, and physical or
  sexual abuse
  tier rating: Tier 3 - Syria again failed to report any law
  enforcement efforts to punish trafficking offenses in 2007; in
  addition, the government did not offer protection services to
  victims of trafficking and may have arrested, prosecuted, or
  deported some victims for prostitution or immigration violations;
  Syria has not ratified the 2000 UN TIP Protocol (2008)

Tajikistan
  current situation: Tajikistan is a source country for
  women trafficked through Kyrgyzstan and Russia to the UAE, Turkey,
  and Russia for the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation; men
  are trafficked to Russia and Kazakhstan for the purpose of forced
  labor, primarily in the construction and agricultural industries;
  boys and girls are trafficked internally for various purposes,
  including forced labor and forced begging
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Tajikistan is on the Tier 2 Watch
  List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to
  combat human trafficking, especially efforts to investigate,
  prosecute, convict, and sentence traffickers; despite evidence of
  low- and mid-level officials' complicity in trafficking, the
  government did not punish any public officials for trafficking
  complicity during 2007; lack of capacity and poor coordination
  between government institutions remained key obstacles to effective
  anti-trafficking efforts (2008)

Uzbekistan
  current situation: Uzbekistan is a source country for
  women and girls trafficked to Kazakhstan, Russia, Middle East, and
  Asia for the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation; men are
  trafficked to Kazakhstan and Russia for purposes of forced labor in
  the construction, cotton, and tobacco industries; men and women are
  also trafficked internally for the purposes of domestic servitude,
  forced labor in the agricultural and construction industries, and
  for commercial sexual exploitation
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Uzbekistan is on the Tier 2 Watch
  List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to
  combat severe forms of trafficking in 2007; the government did not
  amend its criminal code to increase penalties for convicted
  traffickers; in March 2008, Uzbekistan adopted ILO Conventions on
  minimum age of employment and on the elimination of the worst forms
  of child labor and is working with the ILO on implementation; the
  government also demonstrated its increasing commitment to combat
  trafficking in March 2008 by adopting a comprehensive
  anti-trafficking law; Uzbekistan has not ratified the 2000 UN TIP
  Protocol (2008)

Venezuela
  current situation: Venezuela is a source, transit, and
  destination country for men, women, and children trafficked for the
  purposes of commercial sexual exploitation and forced labor;
  Venezuelan women and girls are trafficked within the country for
  sexual exploitation, lured from the nation's interior to urban and
  tourist areas; child prostitution in urban areas and child sex
  tourism in resort destinations appear to be growing; Venezuelan
  women and girls are trafficked for commercial sexual exploitation to
  Western Europe, Mexico, and Caribbean destinations
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Venezuela is placed on the Tier 2
  Watch List, up from Tier 3, as it showed greater resolve to address
  trafficking through law enforcement measures and prevention efforts
  in 2007, although stringent punishment of offenders and victim
  assistance remain lacking (2008)

World
  current situation: approximately 800,000 people, mostly women
  and children, are trafficked annually across national borders, not
  including millions trafficked within their own countries; at least
  80% of the victims are female and up to 50% are minors; 75% of all
  victims are trafficked into commercial sexual exploitation; almost
  two-thirds of the global victims are trafficked intra-regionally
  within East Asia and the Pacific (260,000 to 280,000 people) and
  Europe and Eurasia (170,000 to 210,000 people)
  Tier 2 Watch List: Albania, Argentina, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain,
  Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, China, Costa
  Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Cyprus, Democratic Republic of the Congo,
  Dominican Republic, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, The Gambia,
  Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, India, Jordan, Libya,
  Malaysia, Montenegro, Mozambique, Niger, Panama, Republic of the
  Congo, Russia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan,
  Venezuela, Zambia, Zimbabwe
  Tier 3: Algeria, Burma, Cuba, Fiji, Iran, Kuwait, Moldova, North
  Korea, Oman, Papua New Guinea, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Syria
  (2008)

Zambia
  current situation: Zambia is a source, transit, and
  destination country for women and children trafficked for the
  purposes of forced labor and sexual exploitation; many Zambian child
  laborers, particularly those in the agriculture, domestic service,
  and fishing sectors, are also victims of human trafficking; Zambian
  women, lured by false employment or marriage offers abroad, are
  trafficked to South Africa via Zimbabwe and to Europe via Malawi for
  sexual exploitation; Zambia is a transit point for regional
  trafficking of women and children, particularly from Angola to
  Namibia and from the Democratic Republic of the Congo to South
  Africa for agricultural labor
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Zambia is on the Tier 2 Watch List
  for failing to provide evidence of increasing efforts to combat
  severe forms of trafficking, particularly in regard to its inability
  to bring alleged traffickers to justice through prosecutions and
  convictions; unlike 2006, there were no new prosecutions or
  convictions of alleged traffickers in 2007; government efforts to
  protect victims of trafficking remained extremely limited throughout
  the year (2008)

Zimbabwe
  current situation: Zimbabwe is a source, transit, and
  destination country for men, women, and children trafficked for the
  purposes of forced labor and sexual exploitation; large scale
  migration of Zimbabweans to surrounding countries - as they flee a
  progressively more desperate situation at home - has increased;
  rural Zimbabwean men, women, and children are trafficked internally
  to farms for agricultural labor and domestic servitude and to cities
  for domestic labor and commercial sexual exploitation; young men and
  boys are trafficked to South Africa for farm work, often laboring
  for months in South Africa without pay before "employers" have them
  arrested and deported as illegal immigrants; young women and girls
  are lured abroad with false employment offers that result in
  involuntary domestic servitude or commercial sexual exploitation;
  men, women, and children from neighboring states are trafficked
  through Zimbabwe en route to South Africa
  tier rating: Tier 2 Watch List - Zimbabwe is on the Tier 2 Watch
  List for its failure to provide evidence of increasing efforts to
  combat severe forms of human trafficking, and because the absolute
  number of victims of severe forms of trafficking is significantly
  increasing; the trafficking situation in the country is worsening as
  more of the population is made vulnerable by declining
  socio-economic conditions (2008)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2198  Stock of direct foreign investment - at home


Algeria
  $12.04 billion (2007 est.)

Angola
  $17.23 billion (2007 est.)

Argentina
  $65.31 billion (2007 est.)

Australia
  $315 billion (2007 est.)

Austria
  $222.9 billion (2007 est.)

Azerbaijan
  $7.829 billion (2007 est.)

Bahrain
  $13.31 billion (2007 est.)

Bangladesh
  $4.971 billion (2007 est.)

Belgium
  $678.2 billion (2007 est.)

Bermuda
  $NA

Bolivia
  $6.88 billion (31 December 2004)

Brazil
  $248.9 billion (2007 est.)

Bulgaria
  $33.91 billion (2007 est.)

Canada
  $527.4 billion (2007 est.)

Cayman Islands
  $NA

Chad
  $4.5 billion (2006 est.)

Chile
  $91.49 billion (2007 est.)

China
  $758.9 billion (2007 est.)

Colombia
  $56.19 billion (2007 est.)

Costa Rica
  $8.53 billion (2007 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  $NA

Croatia
  $23.13 billion (2007 est.)

Cuba
  $11.24 billion (2006 est.)

Cyprus
  $13.36 billion (2007 est.)

Czech Republic
  $86.75 billion (2007 est.)

Denmark
  $149.7 billion (2007 est.)

Dominican Republic
  $12.75 billion (2007 est.)

Ecuador
  $16.31 billion (2007 est.)

Egypt
  $48.46 billion (2007 est.)

El Salvador
  $5.918 billion (2007 est.)

Estonia
  $16.59 billion (2007 est.)

Fiji
  $NA

Finland
  $85.24 billion (2007 est.)

France
  $942.3 billion (2007 est.)

Germany
  $855.8 billion (2007 est.)

Ghana
  $NA

Greece
  $52.84 billion (2007 est.)

Hong Kong
  $1.185 trillion (2007 est.)

Hungary
  $108.6 billion (2007 est.)

Iceland
  $NA

India
  $95.96 billion (2007 est.)

Indonesia
  $57.6 billion (2007 est.)

Iran
  $6.026 billion (2007 est.)

Ireland
  $191.4 billion (2007 est.)

Israel
  $57.97 billion (2007 est.)

Italy
  $364.8 billion (2007 est.)

Japan
  $110.8 billion (2007 est.)

Jordan
  $18.18 billion (2007 est.)

Kazakhstan
  $40.16 billion (2007 est.)

Kenya
  $1.249 billion (2007 est.)

Korea, South
  $119.6 billion (2007 est.)

Kuwait
  $898 million (2007 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  $NA

Latvia
  $8.62 billion (2007 est.)

Lebanon
  $NA

Liberia
  $NA

Libya
  $6.286 billion (2007 est.)

Lithuania
  $14.63 billion (2007 est.)

Luxembourg
  $NA

Macau
  $6.5 billion (2006)

Macedonia
  $2.405 billion (2007 est.)

Madagascar
  $NA

Malawi
  $NA

Malaysia
  $86.16 billion (2007 est.)

Malta
  $NA

Mauritius
  $NA

Mexico
  $260.9 billion (2007 est.)

Moldova
  $NA

Mongolia
  $NA

Morocco
  $32.9 billion (2007 est.)

Namibia
  $NA

Nepal
  $NA

Netherlands
  $673.4 billion (2007 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  $NA

New Zealand
  $71.31 billion (2007 est.)

Nigeria
  $33.64 billion (2007 est.)

Norway
  $62.63 billion (2007 est.)

Oman
  $NA

Pakistan
  $20.01 billion (2007 est.)

Panama
  $NA

Papua New Guinea
  $NA

Paraguay
  $2.057 million (2007)

Peru
  $24.72 billion (2007 est.)

Philippines
  $19.88 billion (2007 est.)

Poland
  $143 billion (2007 est.)

Portugal
  $91.19 billion (2007 est.)

Qatar
  $11.18 billion (2007 est.)

Romania
  $60.82 billion (2007 est.)

Russia
  $271.6 billion (2006)

Saudi Arabia
  $NA

Serbia
  $11.95 billion (2006 est.)

Singapore
  $214.5 billion (2007 est.)

Slovakia
  $45.25 billion (2007 est.)

Slovenia
  $10.41 billion (2007 est.)

South Africa
  $93.51 billion (2007 est.)

Spain
  $568.8 billion (2007 est.)

Sri Lanka
  $NA

Swaziland
  $NA

Sweden
  $216.6 billion (2007 est.)

Switzerland
  $306.4 billion (2007 est.)

Taiwan
  $92.83 billion (2007)

Tanzania
  $NA

Thailand
  $80.83 billion (2007 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  $12.44 billion (2007)

Tunisia
  $26.22 billion (2007 est.)

Turkey
  $106.4 billion (2007 est.)

Uganda
  $NA

Ukraine
  $31.08 billion (2007 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  $44.37 billion (2007 est.)

United Kingdom
  $1.288 trillion (2007 est.)

United States
  $2.093 trillion (2007 est.)

Uruguay
  $4.19 billion (2007)

Uzbekistan
  $NA

Venezuela
  $43.96 billion (2007 est.)

Vietnam
  $32.74 billion (2007 est.)

World
  World total DFI $14 trillion
  top ten recipients of DFI: US $1.966 trillion; UK $1.324 trillion;
  France $872.4 billion; Germany $811.0 billion; HK $780.4 billion;
  China $758.9 billion; Belgium $703.9 billion; Netherlands $535.1
  billion; Canada $527.4 billion; Spain $487.8 billion (year-end 2007
  est.)

Zambia
  $NA

Zimbabwe
  $NA

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2199  Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad


Algeria
  $851 million (2007 est.)

Angola
  $227 million (2006 est.)

Argentina
  $26.26 billion (2007 est.)

Australia
  $280.6 billion (2007 est.)

Austria
  $208.1 billion (2007 est.)

Azerbaijan
  $4.912 billion (2007 est.)

Bahrain
  $7.72 billion (2007 est.)

Bangladesh
  $104 million (2007 est.)

Belgium
  $540.1 billion (2007 est.)

Bermuda
  $NA

Bolivia
  $NA

Brazil
  $107.1 billion (2007 est.)

Bulgaria
  $559 million (2007 est.)

Canada
  $514.7 billion (2007 est.)

Cayman Islands
  $NA

Chad
  $NA

Chile
  $24.68 billion (2007 est.)

China
  $93.75 billion ( 2007 est.)

Colombia
  $10.38 billion (2007 est.)

Costa Rica
  $490 million (2007 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire
  $NA

Croatia
  $3.161 billion (2007 est.)

Cuba
  $4.138 billion (2006 est.)

Cyprus
  $5.419 billion (2007 est.)

Czech Republic
  $6.058 billion (2007 est.)

Denmark
  $166.6 billion (2007 est.)

Dominican Republic
  $59 million (2007 est.)

Ecuador
  $1.456 billion (2007 est.)

Egypt
  $1.295 billion (2007 est.)

El Salvador
  $384 million (2007 est.)

Estonia
  $5.873 billion (2007 est.)

Fiji
  $NA

Finland
  $113 billion (2007 est.)

France
  $1.307 trillion (2007 est.)

Germany
  $1.218 trillion (2007 est.)

Ghana
  $NA

Greece
  $30.8 billion (2007 est.)

Hong Kong
  $1.027 trillion (2007 est.)

Hungary
  $45.54 billion (2007 est.)

Iceland
  $NA

India
  $37.5 billion (2007 est.)

Indonesia
  $9.225 billion (2006 est.)

Iran
  $903 million (2007 est.)

Ireland
  $139.6 billion (2007 est.)

Israel
  $41.96 billion (2007 est.)

Italy
  $520.1 billion (2007 est.)

Japan
  $533.1 billion (2007 est.)

Kazakhstan
  $3.97 billion (September 2007)

Kenya
  $47 million (2007 est.)

Korea, South
  $82.1 billion (2006)

Kuwait
  $24.22 billion (2007 est.)

Kyrgyzstan
  $NA

Latvia
  $699 million (2007 est.)

Lebanon
  $NA

Liberia
  $NA

Libya
  $3.333 billion (2007 est.)

Lithuania
  $1.642 billion (2007 est.)

Luxembourg
  $NA

Macau
  $1.1 billion (2006)

Macedonia
  $NA

Madagascar
  $NA

Malawi
  $NA

Malaysia
  $42.55 billion (2007 est.)

Malta
  $NA

Mauritius
  $NA

Mexico
  $39.01 billion (2007 est.)

Moldova
  $NA

Mongolia
  $NA

Morocco
  $882 million (2006 est.)

Namibia
  $NA

Nepal
  $NA

Netherlands
  $851.3 billion (2007 est.)

Netherlands Antilles
  $NA

New Zealand
  $NA

Nigeria
  $12.63 billion (2007 est.)

Norway
  $126.1 billion (2007 est.)

Oman
  $NA

Pakistan
  $982 million (2007 est.)

Panama
  $NA

Papua New Guinea
  $NA

Paraguay
  $NA

Peru
  $1.476 billion (2007 est.)

Philippines
  $5.584 billion (2007 est.)

Poland
  $19.69 billion (2007 est.)

Portugal
  $54.85 billion (2007 est.)

Qatar
  $5.625 billion (2007 est.)

Romania
  $915 million (2007 est.)

Russia
  $209.6 billion (2006)

Saudi Arabia
  $NA

Serbia
  $NA

Singapore
  $111.2 billion (2005)

Slovakia
  $1.509 billion (2007 est.)

Slovenia
  $6.127 billion (2007 est.)

South Africa
  $53.98 billion (2007 est.)

Spain
  $681.7 billion (2007 est.)

Sri Lanka
  $NA

Swaziland
  $NA

Sweden
  $261.5 billion (2007 est.)

Switzerland
  $605.6 billion (2007 est.)

Taiwan
  $108.9 billion (2007)

Tanzania
  $NA

Thailand
  $7.013 billion (2007 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago
  $1.419 billion (2007)

Tunisia
  $118 million (2007 est.)

Turkey
  $11.35 billion (2007 est.)

Uganda
  $NA

Ukraine
  $895 million (2007 est.)

United Arab Emirates
  $14.14 billion (2007 est.)

United Kingdom
  $1.707 trillion (2007 est.)

United States
  $2.791 trillion (2007 est.)

Uruguay
  $156 million (2007)

Uzbekistan
  $NA

Venezuela
  $13.81 billion (2007 est.)

Vietnam
  $NA

World
  World total DFI $14 trillion
  top ten sources of DFI: US $2.627 trillion; UK $1.741 trillion;
  France $1.211 trillion; Germany $1.123 trillion; Netherlands $811.4
  billion; HK $716.2 billion; Spain $613.9 billion; Switzerland $591.5
  billion; Belgium $537.6 billion; Japan $527.8 billion (year-end 2007
  est.)

Zambia
  $NA

Zimbabwe
  $NA

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2200  Market value of publicly traded shares


Afghanistan
  $NA

Albania
  $NA

Algeria
  $NA

Argentina
  $79.73 billion (2006)

Armenia
  $42.8 million (2005)

Australia
  $804.1 billion (2005)

Austria
  $126.3 billion (2005)

Azerbaijan
  $NA

Bahamas, The
  $NA

Bahrain
  $21.12 billion (2006)

Bangladesh
  $3.61 billion (2006)

Barbados
  $5.513 billion (2005)

Belarus
  $NA

Belgium
  $422.7 billion (2006)

Belize
  $NA

Benin
  $NA

Bermuda
  $2.125 billion (2005)

Bhutan
  $NA

Bolivia
  $2.2 billion (2005)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  $NA

Botswana
  $3.947 billion (2006)

Brazil
  $711.1 billion (2006)

Brunei
  $NA

Bulgaria
  $10.32 billion (2006)

Burkina Faso
  $NA

Burma
  $NA

Burundi
  $NA

Cambodia
  $NA

Cameroon
  $NA

Canada
  $1.481 trillion (2005)

Cayman Islands
  $130 million (2005)

Central African Republic
  $NA

Chad
  $NA

Chile
  $174.6 billion (2006)

China
  $4.477 trillion (31 December 2007 est.)

Colombia
  $56.2 billion (2006)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  $NA

Congo, Republic of the
  $NA

Costa Rica
  $1.478 billion (2005)

Cote d'Ivoire
  $4.155 billion (2006)

Croatia
  $29.01 billion (2006)

Cyprus
  $48.2 billion (2005)

Czech Republic
  $48.6 billion (2006)

Denmark
  $178 billion (2005)

Dominican Republic
  $NA

Ecuador
  $4.04 billion (2006)

Egypt
  $93.48 billion (2006)

El Salvador
  $3.623 billion (2005)

Estonia
  $5.963 billion (2006)

Ethiopia
  $NA

European Union
  $11.64 trillion (2006)

Fiji
  $586.7 million (2005)

Finland
  $1.095 trillion (January 2008)

France
  $1.71 trillion (2005)

French Polynesia
  $NA

Gabon
  $NA

Gambia, The
  $NA

Georgia
  $1.39 billion (2007)

Germany
  $1.221 trillion (2005)

Ghana
  $13.01 billion (2007)

Greece
  $145 billion (2005)

Grenada
  $NA

Guatemala
  $NA

Guinea
  $NA

Guinea-Bissau
  $NA

Guyana
  $187.3 million (2005)

Haiti
  $NA

Honduras
  $NA

Hong Kong
  $2.97 trillion (2007 est.)

Hungary
  $41.93 billion (2006)

Iceland
  $27.8 billion (2005)

India
  $818.9 billion (2006)

Indonesia
  $138.9 billion (2006)

Iran
  $45.2 billion (December 2007)

Iraq
  $NA

Ireland
  $114.1 billion (2005)

Isle of Man
  $NA

Israel
  $173.3 billion (2006)

Italy
  $798.2 billion (2005)

Jamaica
  $12.28 billion (2006)

Japan
  $4.737 trillion (2005)

Jersey
  $NA

Jordan
  $29.73 billion (2006)

Kazakhstan
  $10.52 billion (2005)

Kenya
  $11.38 billion (2006)

Kiribati
  $NA

Korea, South
  $1.051 trillion (2007)

Kuwait
  $128.9 billion (2006)

Kyrgyzstan
  $41.99 million (2005)

Latvia
  $2.705 billion (2006)

Lebanon
  $8.279 billion (2006)

Liberia
  $NA

Libya
  $NA

Liechtenstein
  $NA

Lithuania
  $10.19 billion (2006)

Luxembourg
  $79.4 billion (2006)

Macau
  $413.1 million (2004)

Macedonia
  $646 million (2005)

Madagascar
  $NA

Malawi
  $NA

Malaysia
  $235.4 billion (2006)

Maldives
  $NA

Mali
  $NA

Malta
  $4.097 billion (2005)

Mauritania
  $NA

Mauritius
  $5.7 billion (2007)

Mayotte
  $NA

Mexico
  $348.3 billion (2006)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  $NA

Moldova
  $573.9 million (2004)

Monaco
  $NA

Mongolia
  $613.3 million (2007)

Montenegro
  $NA

Morocco
  $49.6 billion (2006)

Mozambique
  $NA

Namibia
  $541.8 million (2006)

Nepal
  $963.5 million (2005)

Netherlands
  $924.4 billion (November 2007)

Netherlands Antilles
  $488.6 billion (2003)

New Caledonia
  $NA

New Zealand
  $40.62 billion (2005)

Nicaragua
  $NA

Niger
  $NA

Nigeria
  $32.82 billion (2006)

Norway
  $191 billion (2005)

Oman
  $16.16 billion (2006)

Pakistan
  $45.52 billion (2006)

Palau
  $NA

Panama
  $5.074 billion (2005)

Papua New Guinea
  $4.863 billion (2005)

Paraguay
  $233.8 million (2005)

Peru
  $59.66 billion (2006)

Philippines
  $103.4 billion (2007)

Poland
  $149.1 billion (2006)

Portugal
  $66.98 billion (2005)

Puerto Rico
  $NA

Qatar
  $61.56 billion (2006)

Romania
  $45.42 billion (2007)

Russia
  $1.322 trillion (2006)

Rwanda
  $NA

Samoa
  $NA

San Marino
  $NA

Sao Tome and Principe
  $NA

Saudi Arabia
  $326.9 billion (2006)

Senegal
  $NA

Serbia
  $5.409 billion (2005)

Seychelles
  $NA

Sierra Leone
  $NA

Singapore
  $382.4 billion (2007)

Slovakia
  $5.574 billion (2006)

Slovenia
  $15.18 billion (2006)

South Africa
  $842 billion (January 2008)

Spain
  $960 billion (2005)

Sri Lanka
  $7.769 billion (2006)

Sudan
  $NA

Suriname
  $NA

Swaziland
  $196.8 million (2005)

Sweden
  $403.9 billion (2005)

Switzerland
  $938.6 billion (2005)

Syria
  $NA

Taiwan
  $654 billion (28 December 2007)

Tajikistan
  $NA

Tanzania
  $587.9 million (2005)

Thailand
  $139.6 billion (2006)

Timor-Leste
  $NA

Togo
  $NA

Tonga
  $NA

Trinidad and Tobago
  $15.57 billion (2006)

Tunisia
  $4.446 billion (2006)

Turkey
  $162.4 billion (2006)

Turkmenistan
  $NA

Uganda
  $103.4 million (2005)

Ukraine
  $42.87 billion (2006)

United Arab Emirates
  $138.5 billion (2006)

United Kingdom
  $3.058 trillion (2005)

United States
  $17 trillion (2005)

Uruguay
  $224 million (2007)

Uzbekistan
  $36.89 million (2005)

Vanuatu
  $NA

Venezuela
  $8.251 billion (2006)

Vietnam
  $NA

West Bank
  $4.461 billion (2005)

World
  $53.51 trillion (2006)

Yemen
  $NA

Zambia
  $4.5 billion (2007)

Zimbabwe
  $26.56 billion (2006)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2201  Total renewable water resources (cu km)


Afghanistan
  65 cu km (1997)

Albania
  41.7 cu km (2001)

Algeria
  14.3 cu km (1997)

Angola
  184 cu km (1987)

Antigua and Barbuda
  0.1 cu km (2000)

Argentina
  814 cu km (2000)

Armenia
  10.5 cu km (1997)

Australia
  398 cu km (1995)

Austria
  84 cu km (2005)

Azerbaijan
  30.3 cu km (1997)

Bahamas, The
  NA

Bahrain
  0.1 cu km (1997)

Bangladesh
  1,210.6 cu km (1999)

Barbados
  0.1 cu km (2003)

Belarus
  58 cu km (1997)

Belgium
  20.8 cu km (2005)

Belize
  18.6 cu km (2000)

Benin
  25.8 cu km (2001)

Bhutan
  95 cu km (1987)

Bolivia
  622.5 cu km (2000)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  37.5 cu km (2003)

Botswana
  14.7 cu km (2001)

Brazil
  8,233 cu km (2000)

Brunei
  8.5 cu km (1999)

Bulgaria
  19.4 cu km (2005)

Burkina Faso
  17.5 cu km (2001)

Burma
  1,045.6 cu km (1999)

Burundi
  3.6 cu km (1987)

Cambodia
  476.1 cu km (1999)

Cameroon
  285.5 cu km (2003)

Canada
  3,300 cu km (1985)

Cape Verde
  0.3 cu km (1990)

Central African Republic
  144.4 cu km (2003)

Chad
  43 cu km (1987)

Chile
  922 cu km (2000)

China
  2,829.6 cu km (1999)

Colombia
  2,132 cu km (2000)

Comoros
  1.2 cu km (2003)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  1,283 cu km (2001)

Congo, Republic of the
  832 cu km (1987)

Costa Rica
  112.4 cu km (2000)

Cote d'Ivoire
  81 cu km (2001)

Croatia
  105.5 cu km (1998)

Cuba
  38.1 cu km (2000)

Cyprus
  0.4 cu km (2005)

Czech Republic
  16 cu km (2005)

Denmark
  6.1 cu km (2003)

Djibouti
  0.3 cu km (1997)

Dominica
  NA

Dominican Republic
  21 cu km (2000)

Ecuador
  432 cu km (2000)

Egypt
  86.8 cu km (1997)

El Salvador
  25.2 cu km (2001)

Equatorial Guinea
  26 cu km (2001)

Eritrea
  6.3 cu km (2001)

Estonia
  21.1 cu km (2005)

Ethiopia
  110 cu km (1987)

Fiji
  28.6 cu km (1987)

Finland
  110 cu km (2005)

France
  189 cu km (2005)

Gabon
  164 cu km (1987)

Gambia, The
  8 cu km (1982)

Georgia
  63.3 cu km (1997)

Germany
  188 cu km (2005)

Ghana
  53.2 cu km (2001)

Greece
  72 cu km (2005)

Grenada
  NA

Guatemala
  111.3 cu km (2000)

Guinea
  226 cu km (1987)

Guinea-Bissau
  31 cu km (2003)

Guyana
  241 cu km (2000)

Haiti
  14 cu km (2000)

Honduras
  95.9 cu km (2000)

Hungary
  120 cu km (2005)

Iceland
  170 cu km (2005)

India
  1,907.8 cu km (1999)

Indonesia
  2,838 cu km (1999)

Iran
  137.5 cu km (1997)

Iraq
  96.4 cu km (1997)

Ireland
  46.8 cu km (2003)

Israel
  1.7 cu km (2001)

Italy
  175 cu km (2005)

Jamaica
  9.4 cu km (2000)

Japan
  430 cu km (1999)

Jordan
  0.9 cu km (1997)

Kazakhstan
  109.6 cu km (1997)

Kenya
  30.2 cu km (1990)

Korea, North
  77.1 cu km (1999)

Korea, South
  69.7 cu km (1999)

Kuwait
  0.02 cu km (1997)

Kyrgyzstan
  46.5 cu km (1997)

Laos
  333.6 cu km (2003)

Latvia
  49.9 cu km (2005)

Lebanon
  4.8 cu km (1997)

Lesotho
  5.2 cu km (1987)

Liberia
  232 cu km (1987)

Libya
  0.6 cu km (1997)

Lithuania
  24.5 cu km (2005)

Luxembourg
  1.6 cu km (2005)

Macedonia
  6.4 cu km (2001)

Madagascar
  337 cu km (1984)

Malawi
  17.3 cu km (2001)

Malaysia
  580 cu km (1999)

Maldives
  0.03 cu km (1999)

Mali
  100 cu km (2001)

Malta
  0.07 cu km (2005)

Mauritania
  11.4 cu km (1997)

Mauritius
  2.2 cu km (2001)

Mexico
  457.2 cu km (2000)

Moldova
  11.7 cu km (1997)

Mongolia
  34.8 cu km (1999)

Morocco
  29 cu km (2003)

Mozambique
  216 cu km (1992)

Namibia
  45.5 cu km (1991)

Nepal
  210.2 cu km (1999)

Netherlands
  89.7 cu km (2005)

New Zealand
  397 cu km (1995)

Nicaragua
  196.7 cu km (2000)

Niger
  33.7 cu km (2003)

Nigeria
  286.2 cu km (2003)

Norway
  381.4 cu km (2005)

Oman
  1 cu km (1997)

Pakistan
  233.8 cu km (2003)

Panama
  148 cu km (2000)

Papua New Guinea
  801 cu km (1987)

Paraguay
  336 cu km (2000)

Peru
  1,913 cu km (2000)

Philippines
  479 cu km (1999)

Poland
  63.1 cu km (2005)

Portugal
  73.6 cu km (2005)

Qatar
  0.1 cu km (1997)

Romania
  42.3 cu km (2003)

Russia
  4,498 cu km (1997)

Rwanda
  5.2 cu km (2003)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  0.02 cu km (2000)

Saudi Arabia
  2.4 cu km (1997)

Senegal
  39.4 cu km (1987)

Serbia
  208.5 cu km (note - includes Kosovo) (2003)

Sierra Leone
  160 cu km (1987)

Singapore
  0.6 cu km (1975)

Slovakia
  50.1 cu km (2003)

Slovenia
  32.1 cu km (2005)

Solomon Islands
  44.7 cu km (1987)

Somalia
  15.7 cu km (1997)

South Africa
  50 cu km (1990)

Spain
  111.1 cu km (2005)

Sri Lanka
  50 cu km (1999)

Sudan
  154 cu km (1997)

Suriname
  122 cu km (2003)

Swaziland
  4.5 cu km (1987)

Sweden
  179 cu km (2005)

Switzerland
  53.3 cu km (2005)

Syria
  46.1 cu km (1997)

Taiwan
  67 cu km (2000)

Tajikistan
  99.7 cu km (1997)

Tanzania
  91 cu km (2001)

Thailand
  409.9 cu km (1999)

Togo
  14.7 cu km (2001)

Trinidad and Tobago
  3.8 cu km (2000)

Tunisia
  4.6 cu km (2003)

Turkey
  234 cu km (2003)

Turkmenistan
  60.9 cu km (1997)

Uganda
  66 cu km (1970)

Ukraine
  139.5 cu km (1997)

United Arab Emirates
  0.2 cu km (1997)

United Kingdom
  160.6 cu km (2005)

United States
  3,069 cu km (1985)

Uruguay
  139 cu km (2000)

Uzbekistan
  72.2 cu km (2003)

Venezuela
  1,233.2 cu km (2000)

Vietnam
  891.2 cu km (1999)

Yemen
  4.1 cu km (1997)

Zambia
  105.2 cu km (2001)

Zimbabwe
  20 cu km (1987)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2202  Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural) ()


Afghanistan
  total: 23.26 cu km/yr (2%/0%/98%)
  per capita: 779 cu m/yr (2000)

Albania
  total: 1.71 cu km/yr (27%/11%/62%)
  per capita: 546 cu m/yr (2000)

Algeria
  total: 6.07 cu km/yr (22%/13%/65%)
  per capita: 185 cu m/yr (2000)

Angola
  total: 0.35 cu km/yr (23%/17%/60%)
  per capita: 22 cu m/yr (2000)

Antigua and Barbuda
  total: 0.005 cu km/yr (60%/20%/20%)
  per capita: 63 cu m/yr (1990)

Argentina
  total: 29.19 cu km/yr (17%/9%/74%)
  per capita: 753 cu m/yr (2000)

Armenia
  total: 2.95 cu km/yr (30%/4%/66%)
  per capita: 977 cu m/yr (2000)

Australia
  total: 24.06 cu km/yr (15%/10%/75%)
  per capita: 1,193 cu m/yr (2000)

Austria
  total: 3.67 cu km/yr (35%/64%/1%)
  per capita: 448 cu m/yr (1999)

Azerbaijan
  total: 17.25 cu km/yr (5%/28%/68%)
  per capita: 2,051 cu m/yr (2000)

Bahrain
  total: 0.3 cu km/yr (40%/3%/57%)
  per capita: 411 cu m/yr (2000)

Bangladesh
  total: 79.4 cu km/yr (3%/1%/96%)
  per capita: 560 cu m/yr (2000)

Barbados
  total: 0.09 cu km/yr (33%/44%/22%)
  per capita: 333 cu m/yr (2000)

Belarus
  total: 2.79 cu km/yr (23%/47%/30%)
  per capita: 286 cu m/yr (2000)

Belgium
  total: 7.44 cu km/yr (13%/85%/1%)
  per capita: 714 cu m/yr (1998)

Belize
  total: 0.15 cu km/yr (7%/73%/20%)
  per capita: 556 cu m/yr (2000)

Benin
  total: 0.13 cu km/yr (32%/23%/45%)
  per capita: 15 cu m/yr (2001)

Bhutan
  total: 0.43 cu km/yr (5%/1%/94%)
  per capita: 199 cu m/yr (2000)

Bolivia
  total: 1.44 cu km/yr (13%/7%/81%)
  per capita: 157 cu m/yr (2000)

Botswana
  total: 0.19 cu km/yr (41%/18%/41%)
  per capita: 107 cu m/yr (2000)

Brazil
  total: 59.3 cu km/yr (20%/18%/62%)
  per capita: 318 cu m/yr (2000)

Brunei
  total: 0.09
  per capita: 243 cu m/yr (1994)

Bulgaria
  total: 6.92 cu km/yr (3%/78%/19%)
  per capita: 895 cu m/yr (2003)

Burkina Faso
  total: 0.8 cu km/yr (13%/1%/86%)
  per capita: 60 cu m/yr (2000)

Burma
  total: 33.23 cu km/yr (1%/1%/98%)
  per capita: 658 cu m/yr (2000)

Burundi
  total: 0.29 cu km/yr (17%/6%/77%)
  per capita: 38 cu m/yr (2000)

Cambodia
  total: 4.08 cu km/yr (1%/0%/98%)
  per capita: 290 cu m/yr (2000)

Cameroon
  total: 0.99 cu km/yr (18%/8%/74%)
  per capita: 61 cu m/yr (2000)

Canada
  total: 44.72 cu km/yr (20%/69%/12%)
  per capita: 1,386 cu m/yr (1996)

Cape Verde
  total: 0.02 cu km/yr (7%/2%/91%)
  per capita: 39 cu m/yr (2000)

Central African Republic
  total: 0.03 cu km/yr (80%/16%/4%)
  per capita: 7 cu m/yr (2000)

Chad
  total: 0.23 cu km/yr (17%/0%/83%)
  per capita: 24 cu m/yr (2000)

Chile
  total: 12.55 cu km/yr (11%/25%/64%)
  per capita: 770 cu m/yr (2000)

China
  total: 549.76 cu km/yr (7%/26%/68%)
  per capita: 415 cu m/yr (2000)

Colombia
  total: 10.71 cu km/yr (50%/4%/46%)
  per capita: 235 cu m/yr (2000)

Comoros
  total: 0.01 cu km/yr (48%/5%/47%)
  per capita: 13 cu m/yr (1999)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  total: 0.36 cu km/yr (53%/17%/31%)
  per capita: 6 cu m/yr (2000)

Congo, Republic of the
  total: 0.03 cu km/yr (59%/29%/12%)
  per capita: 8 cu m/yr (2000)

Costa Rica
  total: 2.68 cu km/yr (29%/17%/53%)
  per capita: 619 cu m/yr (2000)

Cote d'Ivoire
  total: 0.93 cu km/yr (24%/12%/65%)
  per capita: 51 cu m/yr (2000)

Cuba
  total: 8.2 cu km/yr (19%/12%/69%)
  per capita: 728 cu m/yr (2000)

Cyprus
  total: 0.21 cu km/yr (27%/1%/71%)
  per capita: 250 cu m/yr (2000)

Czech Republic
  total: 1.91 cu km/yr (41%/57%/2%)
  per capita: 187 cu m/yr (2002)

Denmark
  total: 0.67 cu km/yr (32%/26%/42%)
  per capita: 123 cu m/yr (2002)

Djibouti
  total: 0.02 cu km/yr (84%/0%/16%)
  per capita: 25 cu m/yr (2000)

Dominica
  total: 0.02 cu km/yr
  per capita: 213 cu m/yr (1996)

Dominican Republic
  total: 3.39 cu km/yr (32%/2%/66%)
  per capita: 381 cu m/yr (2000)

Ecuador
  total: 16.98 cu km/yr (12%/5%/82%)
  per capita: 1,283 cu m/yr (2000)

Egypt
  total: 68.3 cu km/yr (8%/6%/86%)
  per capita: 923 cu m/yr (2000)

El Salvador
  total: 1.28 cu km/yr (25%/16%/59%)
  per capita: 186 cu m/yr (2000)

Equatorial Guinea
  total: 0.11 cu km/yr (83%/16%/1%)
  per capita: 220 cu m/yr (2000)

Eritrea
  total: 0.3 cu km/yr (3%/0%/97%)
  per capita: 68 cu m/yr (2000)

Estonia
  total: 1.41 cu km/yr (56%/39%/5%)
  per capita: 1,060 cu m/yr (2002)

Ethiopia
  total: 5.56 cu km/yr (6%/0%/94%)
  per capita: 72 cu m/yr (2002)

Fiji
  total: 0.07 cu km/yr (14%/14%/71%)
  per capita: 82 cu m/yr (2000)

Finland
  total: 2.33 cu km/yr (14%/84%/3%)
  per capita: 444 cu m/yr (1999)

France
  total: 33.16 cu km/yr (16%/74%/10%)
  per capita: 548 cu m/yr (2000)

Gabon
  total: 0.12 cu km/yr (50%/8%/42%)
  per capita: 87 cu m/yr (2000)

Gambia, The
  total: 0.03 cu km/yr (23%/12%/65%)
  per capita: 20 cu m/yr (2000)

Georgia
  total: 3.61 cu km/yr (20%/21%/59%)
  per capita: 808 cu m/yr (2000)

Germany
  total: 38.01 cu km/yr (12%/68%/20%)
  per capita: 460 cu m/yr (2001)

Ghana
  total: 0.98 cu km/yr (24%/10%/66%)
  per capita: 44 cu m/yr (2000)

Greece
  total: 8.7 cu km/yr (16%/3%/81%)
  per capita: 782 cu m/yr (1997)

Guatemala
  total: 2.01 cu km/yr (6%/13%/80%)
  per capita: 160 cu m/yr (2000)

Guinea
  total: 1.51 cu km/yr (8%/2%/90%)
  per capita: 161 cu m/yr (2000)

Guinea-Bissau
  total: 0.18 cu km/yr (13%/5%/82%)
  per capita: 113 cu m/yr (2000)

Guyana
  total: 1.64 cu km/yr (2%/1%/98%)
  per capita: 2,187 cu m/yr (2000)

Haiti
  total: 0.99 cu km/yr (5%/1%/94%)
  per capita: 116 cu m/yr (2000)

Honduras
  total: 0.86 cu km/yr (8%/12%/80%)
  per capita: 119 cu m/yr (2000)

Hungary
  total: 21.03 cu km/yr (9%/59%/32%)
  per capita: 2,082 cu m/yr (2001)

Iceland
  total: 0.17 cu km/yr (34%/66%/0%)
  per capita: 567 cu m/yr (2003)

India
  total: 645.84 cu km/yr (8%/5%/86%)
  per capita: 585 cu m/yr (2000)

Indonesia
  total: 82.78 cu km/yr (8%/1%/91%)
  per capita: 372 cu m/yr (2000)

Iran
  total: 72.88 cu km/yr (7%/2%/91%)
  per capita: 1,048 cu m/yr (2000)

Iraq
  total: 42.7 cu km/yr (3%/5%/92%)
  per capita: 1,482 cu m/yr (2000)

Ireland
  total: 1.18 cu km/yr (23%/77%/0%)
  per capita: 284 cu m/yr (1994)

Israel
  total: 2.05 cu km/yr (31%/7%/62%)
  per capita: 305 cu m/yr (2000)

Italy
  total: 41.98 cu km/yr (18%/37%/45%)
  per capita: 723 cu m/yr (1998)

Jamaica
  total: 0.41 cu km/yr (34%/17%/49%)
  per capita: 155 cu m/yr (2000)

Japan
  total: 88.43 cu km/yr (20%/18%/62%)
  per capita: 690 cu m/yr (2000)

Jordan
  total: 1.01 cu km/yr (21%/4%/75%)
  per capita: 177 cu m/yr (2000)

Kazakhstan
  total: 35 cu km/yr (2%/17%/82%)
  per capita: 2,360 cu m/yr (2000)

Kenya
  total: 1.58 cu km/yr (30%/6%/64%)
  per capita: 46 cu m/yr (2000)

Korea, North
  total: 9.02 cu km/yr (20%/25%/55%)
  per capita: 401 cu m/yr (2000)

Korea, South
  total: 18.59 cu km/yr (36%/16%/48%)
  per capita: 389 cu m/yr (2000)

Kuwait
  total: 0.44 cu km/yr (45%/2%/52%)
  per capita: 164 cu m/yr (2000)

Kyrgyzstan
  total: 10.08 cu km/yr (3%/3%/94%)
  per capita: 1,916 cu m/yr (2000)

Laos
  total: 3 cu km/yr (4%/6%/90%)
  per capita: 507 cu m/yr (2000)

Latvia
  total: 0.25 cu km/yr (55%/33%/12%)
  per capita: 108 cu m/yr (2003)

Lebanon
  total: 1.38 cu km/yr (33%/1%/67%)
  per capita: 385 cu m/yr (2000)

Lesotho
  total: 0.05 cu km/yr (40%/40%/20%)
  per capita: 28 cu m/yr (2000)

Liberia
  total: 0.11 cu km/yr (27%/18%/55%)
  per capita: 34 cu m/yr (2000)

Libya
  total: 4.27 cu km/yr (14%/3%/83%)
  per capita: 730 cu m/yr (2000)

Lithuania
  total: 3.33 cu km/yr (78%/15%/7%)
  per capita: 971 cu m/yr (2003)

Luxembourg
  total: 0.06 cu km/yr (42%/45%/13%)
  per capita: 121 cu m/yr (1999)

Macedonia
  total: 2.27
  per capita: 1,118 cu m/yr (2000)

Madagascar
  total: 14.96 cu km/yr (3%/2%/96%)
  per capita: 804 cu m/yr (2000)

Malawi
  total: 1.01 cu km/yr (15%/5%/80%)
  per capita: 78 cu m/yr (2000)

Malaysia
  total: 9.02 cu km/yr (17%/21%/62%)
  per capita: 356 cu m/yr (2000)

Maldives
  total: 0.003 cu km/yr (98%/2%/0%)
  per capita: 9 cu m/yr (1987)

Mali
  total: 6.55 cu km/yr (9%/1%/90%)
  per capita: 484 cu m/yr (2000)

Malta
  total: 0.02 cu km/yr (74%/1%/25%)
  per capita: 50 cu m/yr (2000)

Mauritania
  total: 1.7 cu km/yr (9%/3%/88%)
  per capita: 554 cu m/yr (2000)

Mauritius
  total: 0.61 cu km/yr (25%/14%/60%)
  per capita: 488 cu m/yr (2000)

Mexico
  total: 78.22 cu km/yr (17%/5%/77%)
  per capita: 731 cu m/yr (2000)

Moldova
  total: 2.31 cu km/yr (10%/58%/33%)
  per capita: 549 cu m/yr (2000)

Mongolia
  total: 0.44 cu km/yr (20%/27%/52%)
  per capita: 166 cu m/yr (2000)

Morocco
  total: 12.6 cu km/yr (10%/3%/87%)
  per capita: 400 cu m/yr (2000)

Mozambique
  total: 0.63 cu km/yr (11%/2%/87%)
  per capita: 32 cu m/yr (2000)

Namibia
  total: 0.3 cu km/yr (24%/5%/71%)
  per capita: 148 cu m/yr (2000)

Nepal
  total: 10.18 cu km/yr (3%/1%/96%)
  per capita: 375 cu m/yr (2000)

Netherlands
  total: 8.86 cu km/yr (6%/60%/34%)
  per capita: 544 cu m/yr (2001)

New Zealand
  total: 2.11 cu km/yr (48%/9%/42%)
  per capita: 524 cu m/yr (2000)

Nicaragua
  total: 1.3 cu km/yr (15%/2%/83%)
  per capita: 237 cu m/yr (2000)

Niger
  total: 2.18 cu km/yr (4%/0%/95%)
  per capita: 156 cu m/yr (2000)

Nigeria
  total: 8.01 cu km/yr (21%/10%/69%)
  per capita: 61 cu m/yr (2000)

Norway
  total: 2.4 cu km/yr (23%/67%/10%)
  per capita: 519 cu m/yr (1996)

Oman
  total: 1.36 cu km/yr (7%/2%/90%)
  per capita: 529 cu m/yr (2000)

Pakistan
  total: 169.39 cu km/yr (2%/2%/96%)
  per capita: 1,072 cu m/yr (2000)

Panama
  total: 0.82 cu km/yr (67%/5%/28%)
  per capita: 254 cu m/yr (2000)

Papua New Guinea
  total: 0.1 cu km/yr (56%/43%/1%)
  per capita: 17 cu m/yr (1987)

Paraguay
  total: 0.49 cu km/yr (20%/8%/71%)
  per capita: 80 cu m/yr (2000)

Peru
  total: 20.13 cu km/yr (8%/10%/82%)
  per capita: 720 cu m/yr (2000)

Philippines
  total: 28.52 cu km/yr (17%/9%/74%)
  per capita: 343 cu m/yr (2000)

Poland
  total: 11.73 cu km/yr (13%/79%/8%)
  per capita: 304 cu m/yr (2002)

Portugal
  total: 11.09 cu km/yr (10%/12%/78%)
  per capita: 1,056 cu m/yr (1998)

Qatar
  total: 0.29 cu km/yr (24%/3%/72%)
  per capita: 358 cu m/yr (2000)

Romania
  total: 6.5 cu km/yr (9%/34%/57%)
  per capita: 299 cu m/yr (2003)

Russia
  total: 76.68 cu km/yr (19%/63%/18%)
  per capita: 535 cu m/yr (2000)

Rwanda
  total: 0.15 cu km/yr (24%/8%/68%)
  per capita: 17 cu m/yr (2000)

Saint Lucia
  total: 0.01
  per capita: 81 cu m/yr (1997)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  total: 0.01
  per capita: 83 cu m/yr (1995)

Saudi Arabia
  total: 17.32 cu km/yr (10%/1%/89%)
  per capita: 705 cu m/yr (2000)

Senegal
  total: 2.22 cu km/yr (4%/3%/93%)
  per capita: 190 cu m/yr (2002)

Sierra Leone
  total: 0.38 cu km/yr (5%/3%/92%)
  per capita: 69 cu m/yr (2000)

Singapore
  total: 0.19 cu km/yr (45%/51%/4%)
  per capita: 44 cu m/yr (1975)

Slovakia
  total: 1.04
  per capita: 193 cu m/yr (2003)

Slovenia
  total: 0.9
  per capita: 457 cu m/yr (2002)

Somalia
  total: 3.29 cu km/yr (0%/0%/100%)
  per capita: 400 cu m/yr (2000)

South Africa
  total: 12.5 cu km/yr (31%/6%/63%)
  per capita: 264 cu m/yr (2000)

Spain
  total: 37.22 cu km/yr (13%/19%/68%)
  per capita: 864 cu m/yr (2002)

Sri Lanka
  total: 12.61 cu km/yr (2%/2%/95%)
  per capita: 608 cu m/yr (2000)

Sudan
  total: 37.32 cu km/yr (3%/1%/97%)
  per capita: 1,030 cu m/yr (2000)

Suriname
  total: 0.67 cu km/yr (4%/3%/93%)
  per capita: 1,489 cu m/yr (2000)

Swaziland
  total: 1.04 cu km/yr (2%/1%/97%)
  per capita: 1,010 cu m/yr (2000)

Sweden
  total: 2.68 cu km/yr (37%/54%/9%)
  per capita: 296 cu m/yr (2002)

Switzerland
  total: 2.52 cu km/yr (24%/74%/2%)
  per capita: 348 cu m/yr (2002)

Syria
  total: 19.95 cu km/yr (3%/2%/95%)
  per capita: 1,048 cu m/yr (2000)

Tajikistan
  total: 11.96 cu km/yr (4%/5%/92%)
  per capita: 1,837 cu m/yr (2000)

Tanzania
  total: 5.18 cu km/yr (10%/0%/89%)
  per capita: 135 cu m/yr (2000)

Thailand
  total: 82.75 cu km/yr (2%/2%/95%)
  per capita: 1,288 cu m/yr (2000)

Togo
  total: 0.17 cu km/yr (53%/2%/45%)
  per capita: 28 cu m/yr (2000)

Trinidad and Tobago
  total: 0.31 cu km/yr (68%/26%/6%)
  per capita: 237 cu m/yr (2000)

Tunisia
  total: 2.64 cu km/yr (14%/4%/82%)
  per capita: 261 cu m/yr (2000)

Turkey
  total: 39.78 cu km/yr (15%/11%/74%)
  per capita: 544 cu m/yr (2001)

Turkmenistan
  total: 24.65 cu km/yr (2%/1%/98%)
  per capita: 5,104 cu m/yr (2000)

Uganda
  total: 0.3 cu km/yr (43%/17%/40%)
  per capita: 10 cu m/yr (2002)

Ukraine
  total: 37.53 cu km/yr (12%/35%/52%)
  per capita: 807 cu m/yr (2000)

United Arab Emirates
  total: 2.3 cu km/yr (23%/9%/68%)
  per capita: 511 cu m/yr (2000)

United Kingdom
  total: 11.75 cu km/yr (22%/75%/3%)
  per capita: 197 cu m/yr (1994)

United States
  total: 477 cu km/yr (13%/46%/41%)
  per capita: 1,600 cu m/yr (2000)

Uruguay
  total: 3.15 cu km/yr (2%/1%/96%)
  per capita: 910 cu m/yr (2000)

Uzbekistan
  total: 58.34 cu km/yr (5%/2%/93%)
  per capita: 2,194 cu m/yr (2000)

Venezuela
  total: 8.37 cu km/yr (6%/7%/47%)
  per capita: 313 cu m/yr (2000)

Vietnam
  total: 71.39 cu km/yr (8%/24%/68%)
  per capita: 847 cu m/yr (2000)

Yemen
  total: 6.63 cu km/yr (4%/1%/95%)
  per capita: 316 cu m/yr (2000)

Zambia
  total: 1.74 cu km/yr (17%/7%/76%)
  per capita: 149 cu m/yr (2000)

Zimbabwe
  total: 4.21 cu km/yr (14%/7%/79%)
  per capita: 324 cu m/yr (2002)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2203  Geographic overview


World
  The surface of the earth is approximately 70.9% water and
  29.1% land. The former portion is divided into large water bodies
  termed oceans. The World Factbook recognizes and describes five
  oceans, which are in decreasing order of size: the Pacific Ocean,
  Atlantic Ocean, Indian Ocean, Southern Ocean, and Arctic Ocean.
  The land portion is generally divided into several, large, discrete
  landmasses termed continents. Depending on the convention used, the
  number of continents can vary from five to seven. The most common
  classification recognizes seven, which are (from largest to
  smallest): Asia, Africa, North America, South America, Antarctica,
  Europe, and Australia. Asia and Europe are sometimes lumped together
  into a Eurasian continent resulting in six continents.
  Alternatively, North and South America are sometimes grouped as
  simply the Americas, resulting in a continent total of six (or five,
  if the Eurasia designation is used).
  North America is commonly understood to include the island of
  Greenland, the isles of the Caribbean, and to extend south all the
  way to the Isthmus of Panama. The easternmost extent of Europe is
  generally defined as being the Ural Mountains and the Ural River; on
  the southeast the Caspian Sea; and on the south the Caucasus
  Mountains, the Black Sea, and the Mediterranean. Africa's northeast
  extremity is frequently delimited at the Isthmus of Suez, but for
  geopolitical purposes, the Egyptian Sinai Peninsula is often
  included as part of Africa. Asia usually incorporates all the
  islands of the Philippines, Malaysia, and Indonesia. The islands of
  the Pacific are often lumped with Australia into a "land mass"
  termed Oceania or Australasia.
  Although the above groupings are the most common, different
  continental dispositions are recognized or taught in certain parts
  of the world, with some arrangements more heavily based on cultural
  spheres rather than physical geographic considerations.

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2204  Economy of the area administered by Turkish Cypriots


Cyprus
  Economy - overview: The Turkish Cypriot economy has roughly
  30% of the per capita GDP of the south, and economic growth tends to
  be volatile, given the north's relative isolation, bloated public
  sector, reliance on the Turkish lira, and small market size.
  Agriculture and services, together, employ more than half of the
  work force. The Turkish Cypriot economy grew around 10.6% in 2006,
  fueled by growth in the construction and education sectors, as well
  as increased employment of Turkish Cypriots in the area under
  government control. GDP declined about 2.0% in 2007. The Turkish
  Cypriots are heavily dependent on transfers from the Turkish
  Government. Ankara directly finances around one-third of the
  "TRNC's" budget. Aid from Turkey has exceeded $400 million annually
  in recent years.
  GDP (purchasing power parity): $1.865 billion (2006 est.)
  GDP - real growth rate: -2% (2007 est.)
  GDP - per capita: $11,800 (2006 est.)
  GDP - composition by sector: agriculture: 8.6%, industry: 22.5%,
  services: 69.1% (2006 est.)
  Labor force: 95,030 (2007 est.)
  Labor force - by occupation: agriculture: 14.5%, industry: 29%,
  services: 56.5% (2004)
  Unemployment rate: 9.4% (2005 est.)
  Population below poverty line: %NA
  Inflation rate: 11.4% (2006)
  Budget: revenues: $2.5 billion, expenditures: $2.5 billion (2006)
  Agriculture - products: citrus fruit, dairy, potatoes, grapes,
  olives, poultry, lamb
  Industries: foodstuffs, textiles, clothing, ship repair, clay,
  gypsum, copper, furniture
  Industrial production growth rate: -0.3% (2007 est.)
  Electricity production: 998.9 million kWh (2005)
  Electricity consumption: 797.9 million kWh (2005)
  Exports: $68.1 million, f.o.b. (2007 est.)
  Export - commodities: citrus, dairy, potatoes, textiles
  Export - partners: Turkey 40%; direct trade between the area
  administered by Turkish Cypriots and the area under government
  control remains limited
  Imports: $1.2 billion, f.o.b. (2007 est.)
  Import - commodities: vehicles, fuel, cigarettes, food, minerals,
  chemicals, machinery
  Import - partners: Turkey 60%; direct trade between the area
  administered by Turkish Cypriots and the area under government
  control remains limited
  Economic aid - recipient: under a July 2006 agreement, Turkey plans
  to provide the area administered by Turkish Cypriots 1.875 billion
  YTL ($1.3 billion) over three years (600 million YTL in 2006, 625
  million YTL in 2007 and 650 million YTL in 2008); Turkey has
  forgiven most past aid; additionally, the EU pledged financial
  assistance of Euro 259 million ($388 million) in 2004, which is yet
  to be disbursed.
  Reserves of foreign exchange and gold: $NA
  Debt - external: $NA
  Currency (code): Turkish new lira (YTL)
  Exchange rates: Turkish new lira per US dollar: 1.319 (2007) 1.4286
  (2006) 1.3436 (2005) 1.4255 (2004) 1.5009 (2003)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2205  School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education) (years)


Afghanistan
  total: 8 years
  male: 11 years
  female: 4 years (2004)

Albania
  total: 11 years
  male: 11 years
  female: 11 years (2004)

Algeria
  total: 13 years
  male: 13 years
  female: 13 years (2005)

Andorra
  total: 11 years
  male: 11 years
  female: 11 years (2006)

Anguilla
  total: 11 years
  male: 11 years
  female: 11 years (2006)

Argentina
  total: 15 years
  male: 14 years
  female: 16 years (2005)

Armenia
  total: 11 years
  male: 11 years
  female: 12 years (2006)

Aruba
  total: 14 years
  male: 13 years
  female: 14 years (2006)

Australia
  total: 20 years
  male: 20 years
  female: 21 years (2006)

Austria
  total: 15 years
  male: 15 years
  female: 16 years (2006)

Azerbaijan
  total: 11 years
  male: 11 years
  female: 11 years (2006)

Bahrain
  total: 15 years
  male: 14 years
  female: 16 years (2006)

Bangladesh
  total: 8 years
  male: 8 years
  female: 8 years (2004)

Barbados
  total: 13 years
  male: 13 years
  female: 14 years (2001)

Belarus
  total: 15 years
  male: 14 years
  female: 15 years (2006)

Belgium
  total: 16 years
  male: 16 years
  female: 16 years (2006)

Belize
  total: 13 years
  male: 13 years
  female: 13 years (2004)

Benin
  total: 7 years
  male: 9 years
  female: 6 years (2001)

Bermuda
  total: 13 years
  male: 13 years
  female: 14 years (2005)

Bhutan
  total: 10 years
  male: 11 years
  female: 10 years (2006)

Botswana
  total: 12 years
  male: 12 years
  female: 12 years (2005)

Brazil
  total: 14 years
  male: 14 years
  female: 15 years (2005)

British Virgin Islands
  total: 17 years
  male: 15 years
  female: 19 years (2005)

Brunei
  total: 14 years
  male: 14 years
  female: 14 years (2006)

Bulgaria
  total: 14 years
  male: 13 years
  female: 14 years (2006)

Burkina Faso
  total: 5 years
  male: 5 years
  female: 4 years (2006)

Burma
  total: 8 years
  male: 8 years
  female: 8 years (2001)

Burundi
  total: 7 years
  male: 8 years
  female: 7 years (2006)

Cambodia
  total: 10 years
  male: 10 years
  female: 9 years (2006)

Cameroon
  total: 9 years
  male: 10 years
  female: 8 years (2006)

Canada
  total: 17 years
  male: 17 years
  female: 17 years (2004)

Cape Verde
  total: 12 years
  male: 11 years
  female: 12 years (2006)

Cayman Islands
  total: 13 years
  male: 12 years
  female: 13 years (2001)

Chad
  total: 6 years
  male: 7 years
  female: 4 years (2005)

Chile
  total: 14 years
  male: 14 years
  female: 14 years (2006)

China
  total: 11 years
  male: 11 years
  female: 11 years (2006)

Colombia
  total: 12 years
  male: 12 years
  female: 13 years (2006)

Comoros
  total: 8 years
  male: 9 years
  female: 7 years (2004)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  total: 9 years
  male: 10 years
  female: 8 years (2003)

Congo, Republic of the
  total: 9 years
  male: 10 years
  female: 8 years (2003)

Cook Islands
  total: 10 years
  male: 10 years
  female: 10 years (2005)

Costa Rica
  total: 12 years
  male: 12 years
  female: 12 years (2005)

Croatia
  total: 14 years
  male: 13 years
  female: 14 years (2006)

Cuba
  total: 16 years
  male: 15 years
  female: 17 years (2006)

Cyprus
  total: 14 years
  male: 13 years
  female: 14 years (2006)

Czech Republic
  total: 15 years
  male: 15 years
  female: 15 years (2006)

Denmark
  total: 17 years
  male: 16 years
  female: 17 years (2006)

Djibouti
  total: 4 years
  male: 5 years
  female: 4 years (2006)

Dominica
  total: 13 years
  male: 13 years
  female: 14 years (2005)

Dominican Republic
  total: 12 years
  male: 12 years
  female: 13 years (2004)

El Salvador
  total: 12 years
  male: 12 years
  female: 12 years (2006)

Equatorial Guinea
  total: 10 years
  male: 10 years
  female: 9 years (2000)

Eritrea
  total: 5 years
  male: 6 years
  female: 4 years (2004)

Estonia
  total: 16 years
  male: 15 years
  female: 17 years (2006)

Ethiopia
  total: 8 years
  male: 8 years
  female: 7 years (2007)

Fiji
  total: 13 years
  male: 13 years
  female: 13 years (2005)

Finland
  total: 17 years
  male: 17 years
  female: 18 years (2006)

France
  total: 16 years
  male: 16 years
  female: 17 years (2006)

Gambia, The
  total: 7 years
  male: 7 years
  female: 7 years (2004)

Gaza Strip
  total: 14 years
  male: 13 years
  female: 14 years (2006)

Georgia
  total: 12 years
  male: 12 years
  female: 13 years (2006)

Germany
  total: 16 years
  male: 16 years
  female: 16 years (2006)

Ghana
  total: 9 years
  male: 10 years
  female: 9 years (2007)

Greece
  total: 17 years
  male: 17 years
  female: 17 years (2006)

Grenada
  total: 12 years
  male: 12 years
  female: 12 years (2005)

Guatemala
  total: 10 years
  male: 11 years
  female: 10 years (2006)

Guinea
  total: 8 years
  male: 10 years
  female: 7 years (2006)

Guinea-Bissau
  total: 5 years
  male: 7 years
  female: 4 years (2001)

Guyana
  total: 13 years
  male: 13 years
  female: 14 years (2005)

Honduras
  total: 11 years
  male: 11 years
  female: 12 years (2004)

Hong Kong
  total: 14 years
  male: 14 years
  female: 13 years (2006)

Hungary
  total: 15 years
  male: 15 years
  female: 16 years (2006)

Iceland
  total: 18 years
  male: 17 years
  female: 19 years (2006)

India
  total: 10 years
  male: 11 years
  female: 9 years (2005)

Indonesia
  total: 11 years
  male: 12 years
  female: 11 years (2005)

Iran
  total: 13 years
  male: 13 years
  female: 13 years (2005)

Iraq
  total: 10 years
  male: 11 years
  female: 8 years (2005)

Ireland
  total: 18 years
  male: 17 years
  female: 18 years (2006)

Israel
  total: 15 years
  male: 15 years
  female: 16 years (2006)

Italy
  total: 16 years
  male: 16 years
  female: 17 years (2006)

Jamaica
  total: 12 years
  male: 11 years
  female: 12 years (2003)

Japan
  total: 15 years
  male: 15 years
  female: 15 years (2006)

Jordan
  total: 13 years
  male: 13 years
  female: 13 years (2006)

Kazakhstan
  total: 15 years
  male: 15 years
  female: 16 years (2007)

Kenya
  total: 10 years
  male: 10 years
  female: 9 years (2004)

Kiribati
  total: 12 years
  male: 12 years
  female: 13 years (2005)

Korea, South
  total: 17 years
  male: 18 years
  female: 15 years (2007)

Kuwait
  total: 13 years
  male: 12 years
  female: 13 years (2006)

Kyrgyzstan
  total: 12 years
  male: 12 years
  female: 13 years (2006)

Laos
  total: 9 years
  male: 10 years
  female: 8 years (2006)

Latvia
  total: 16 years
  male: 14 years
  female: 17 years (2006)

Lebanon
  total: 13 years
  male: 13 years
  female: 13 years (2006)

Lesotho
  total: 10 years
  male: 10 years
  female: 10 years (2006)

Liberia
  total: 10 years
  male: 11 years
  female: 8 years (2000)

Libya
  total: 17 years
  male: 16 years
  female: 17 years (2003)

Liechtenstein
  total: 15 years
  male: 16 years
  female: 13 years (2004)

Lithuania
  total: 16 years
  male: 15 years
  female: 17 years (2006)

Luxembourg
  total: 14 years
  male: 13 years
  female: 14 years (2006)

Macau
  total: 15 years
  male: 16 years
  female: 14 years (2006)

Macedonia
  total: 12 years
  male: 12 years
  female: 12 years (2005)

Madagascar
  total: 9 years
  male: 10 years
  female: 9 years (2006)

Malawi
  total: 9 years
  male: 10 years
  female: 9 years (2004)

Malaysia
  total: 13 years
  male: 12 years
  female: 13 years (2005)

Maldives
  total: 12 years
  male: 12 years
  female: 12 years (2006)

Mali
  total: 7 years
  male: 8 years
  female: 5 years (2005)

Malta
  total: 15 years
  male: 15 years
  female: 15 years (2005)

Marshall Islands
  total: 13 years
  male: 13 years
  female: 13 years (2003)

Mauritania
  total: 8 years
  male: 8 years
  female: 8 years (2006)

Mauritius
  total: 14 years
  male: 14 years
  female: 13 years (2005)

Mexico
  total: 13 years
  male: 14 years
  female: 13 years (2006)

Moldova
  total: 12 years
  male: 12 years
  female: 13 years (2006)

Mongolia
  total: 13 years
  male: 12 years
  female: 14 years (2006)

Montserrat
  total: 16 years
  male: 15 years
  female: 16 years (2006)

Morocco
  total: 10 years
  male: 11 years
  female: 9 years (2005)

Mozambique
  total: 8 years
  male: 9 years
  female: 7 years (2005)

Namibia
  total: 11 years
  male: 11 years
  female: 11 years (2006)

Nauru
  total: 8 years
  male: 8 years
  female: 9 years (2006)

Nepal
  total: 9 years
  male: 10 years
  female: 8 years (2003)

Netherlands
  total: 16 years
  male: 17 years
  female: 16 years (2006)

Netherlands Antilles
  total: 14 years
  male: 14 years
  female: 15 years (2002)

New Zealand
  total: 19 years
  male: 19 years
  female: 20 years (2006)

Nicaragua
  total: 11 years
  male: 11 years
  female: 11 years (2003)

Niger
  total: 4 years
  male: 5 years
  female: 3 years (2006)

Nigeria
  total: 8 years
  male: 9 years
  female: 7 years (2004)

Niue
  total: 12 years
  male: 12 years
  female: 12 years (2005)

Norway
  total: 17 years
  male: 17 years
  female: 18 years (2006)

Oman
  total: 12 years
  male: 12 years
  female: 11 years (2006)

Pakistan
  total: 7 years
  male: 7 years
  female: 6 years (2006)

Palau
  total: 15 years
  male: 14 years
  female: 15 years (2000)

Panama
  total: 13 years
  male: 13 years
  female: 14 years (2006)

Paraguay
  total: 12 years
  male: 12 years
  female: 12 years (2005)

Peru
  total: 14 years
  male: 14 years
  female: 14 years (2006)

Philippines
  total: 12 years
  male: 11 years
  female: 12 years (2006)

Poland
  total: 15 years
  male: 15 years
  female: 16 years (2006)

Portugal
  total: 15 years
  male: 15 years
  female: 16 years (2006)

Qatar
  total: 13 years
  male: 13 years
  female: 14 years (2006)

Romania
  total: 14 years
  male: 14 years
  female: 14 years (2006)

Russia
  total: 14 years
  male: 13 years
  female: 14 years (2006)

Rwanda
  total: 9 years
  male: 8 years
  female: 9 years (2005)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  total: 12 years
  male: 12 years
  female: 13 years (2005)

Saint Lucia
  total: 14 years
  male: 13 years
  female: 14 years (2006)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  total: 12 years
  male: 12 years
  female: 12 years (2005)

Samoa
  total: 12 years
  male: 12 years
  female: 12 years (2001)

Sao Tome and Principe
  total: 10 years
  male: 10 years
  female: 10 years (2006)

Seychelles
  total: 15 years
  male: 14 years
  female: 15 years (2007)

Sierra Leone
  total: 7 years
  male: 8 years
  female: 6 years (2001)

Slovakia
  total: 15 years
  male: 14 years
  female: 15 years (2006)

Slovenia
  total: 17 years
  male: 16 years
  female: 17 years (2006)

Solomon Islands
  total: 8 years
  male: 9 years
  female: 8 years (2005)

South Africa
  total: 13 years
  male: 13 years
  female: 13 years (2004)

Spain
  total: 16 years
  male: 16 years
  female: 17 years (2006)

Suriname
  total: 12 years
  male: 11 years
  female: 13 years (2002)

Swaziland
  total: 10 years
  male: 10 years
  female: 10 years (2005)

Sweden
  total: 16 years
  male: 15 years
  female: 17 years (2006)

Switzerland
  total: 15 years
  male: 15 years
  female: 15 years (2006)

Tajikistan
  total: 11 years
  male: 12 years
  female: 10 years (2006)

Thailand
  total: 14 years
  male: 13 years
  female: 14 years (2006)

Togo
  total: 9 years
  male: 11 years
  female: 7 years (2000)

Tokelau
  total: 11 years
  male: 10 years
  female: 11 years (2004)

Tonga
  total: 13 years
  male: 13 years
  female: 13 years (2004)

Trinidad and Tobago
  total: 11 years
  male: 11 years
  female: 11 years (2005)

Tunisia
  total: 14 years
  male: 13 years
  female: 14 years (2006)

Turkey
  total: 11 years
  male: 12 years
  female: 11 years (2006)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  total: 11 years
  male: 11 years
  female: 12 years (2005)

Tuvalu
  total: 11 years
  male: 11 years
  female: 11 years (2001)

Uganda
  total: 10 years
  male: 11 years
  female: 10 years (2004)

Ukraine
  total: 14 years
  male: 14 years
  female: 15 years (2006)

United Arab Emirates
  total: 11 years
  male: 11 years
  female: 12 years (2003)

United Kingdom
  total: 16 years
  male: 16 years
  female: 17 years (2006)

United States
  total: 16 years
  male: 15 years
  female: 16 years (2006)

Uruguay
  total: 15 years
  male: 14 years
  female: 16 years (2006)

Uzbekistan
  total: 11 years
  male: 12 years
  female: 11 years (2007)

Vanuatu
  total: 10 years
  male: 11 years
  female: 10 years (2004)

Venezuela
  total: 12 years
  male: 11 years
  female: 12 years (2003)

Vietnam
  total: 10 years
  male: 11 years
  female: 10 years (2000)

West Bank
  total: 14 years
  male: 13 years
  female: 14 years (2006)

Yemen
  total: 9 years
  male: 11 years
  female: 7 years (2005)

Zambia
  total: 7 years
  male: 7 years
  female: 7 years (2000)

Zimbabwe
  total: 9 years
  male: 9 years
  female: 9 years (2003)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2206  Education expenditures (% of GDP)


Afghanistan
  NA

Albania
  2.9% of GDP (2002)

Algeria
  5.1% of GDP (1999)

American Samoa
  NA

Andorra
  2.3% of GDP (2006)

Angola
  2.4% of GDP (2005)

Anguilla
  4% of GDP (2005)

Antigua and Barbuda
  3.9% of GDP (2002)

Argentina
  3.8% of GDP (2004)

Armenia
  3.2% of GDP (2001)

Aruba
  4.8% of GDP (2005)

Australia
  4.5% of GDP (2005)

Austria
  5.4% of GDP (2005)

Azerbaijan
  2.1% of GDP (2006)

Bahamas, The
  3.6% of GDP (2000)

Bahrain
  3.9% of GDP (1991)

Bangladesh
  2.7% of GDP (2005)

Barbados
  6.9% of GDP (2005)

Belarus
  6.1% of GDP (2006)

Belgium
  6% of GDP (2004)

Belize
  5.3% of GDP (2004)

Benin
  4.4% of GDP (2004)

Bermuda
  1.2% of GDP (2006)

Bhutan
  7% of GDP (2005)

Bolivia
  6.4% of GDP (2003)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  NA

Botswana
  8.7% of GDP (2007)

Brazil
  4% of GDP (2004)

British Virgin Islands
  3.7% of GDP (2006)

Brunei
  5.2% of GDP (2000)

Bulgaria
  4.5% of GDP (2005)

Burkina Faso
  4.2% of GDP (2006)

Burma
  1.2% of GDP (2001)

Burundi
  5.1% of GDP (2005)

Cambodia
  1.7% of GDP (2004)

Cameroon
  3.3% of GDP (2006)

Canada
  5.2% of GDP (2002)

Cape Verde
  6.3% of GDP (2006)

Cayman Islands
  2.8% of GDP (2005)

Central African Republic
  1.4% of GDP (2006)

Chad
  1.9% of GDP (2005)

Chile
  3.2% of GDP (2006)

China
  1.9% of GDP (1999)

Colombia
  4.7% of GDP (2006)

Comoros
  3.8% of GDP (2002)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  NA

Congo, Republic of the
  1.9% of GDP (2005)

Cook Islands
  0.2% of GDP (2001)

Costa Rica
  4.9% of GDP (2004)

Cote d'Ivoire
  4.6% of GDP (2001)

Croatia
  4.5% of GDP (2004)

Cuba
  9.1% of GDP (2006)

Cyprus
  6.3% of GDP (2004)

Czech Republic
  4.4% of GDP (2004)

Denmark
  8.3% of GDP (2005)

Djibouti
  8.4% of GDP (2006)

Dominica
  5% of GDP (1999)

Dominican Republic
  3.6% of GDP (2006)

Ecuador
  1% of GDP (2001)

Egypt
  4.2% of GDP (2006)

El Salvador
  3.1% of GDP (2006)

Equatorial Guinea
  0.6% of GDP (2003)

Eritrea
  2.4% of GDP (2006)

Estonia
  5.1% of GDP (2004)

Ethiopia
  6% of GDP (2006)

Fiji
  6.5% of GDP (2004)

Finland
  6.4% of GDP (2005)

France
  5.7% of GDP (2005)

French Polynesia
  ( )

Gabon
  3.8% of GDP (2000)

Gambia, The
  2% of GDP (2004)

Gaza Strip
  NA

Georgia
  3.1% of GDP (2006)

Germany
  4.6% of GDP (2004)

Ghana
  5.4% of GDP (2005)

Gibraltar
  NA

Greece
  4.4% of GDP (2005)

Greenland
  NA

Grenada
  5.2% of GDP (2003)

Guam
  NA

Guatemala
  2.6% of GDP (2006)

Guernsey
  NA

Guinea
  1.6% of GDP (2005)

Guinea-Bissau
  5.2% of GDP (1999)

Guyana
  8.3% of GDP (2006)

Haiti
  1.4% of GDP (1991)

Honduras
  3.8% of GDP (1991)

Hong Kong
  3.9% of GDP (2006)

Hungary
  5.5% of GDP (2005)

Iceland
  7.6% of GDP (2004)

India
  3.2% of GDP (2005)

Indonesia
  3.6% of GDP (2006)

Iran
  5.1% of GDP (2006)

Iraq
  NA

Ireland
  4.7% of GDP (2005)

Isle of Man
  NA

Israel
  6.9% of GDP (2004)

Italy
  4.5% of GDP (2005)

Jamaica
  5.3% of GDP (2005)

Japan
  3.5% of GDP (2005)

Jersey
  NA

Jordan
  4.9% of GDP (1999)

Kazakhstan
  2.3% of GDP (2005)

Kenya
  6.9% of GDP (2006)

Kiribati
  17.8% of GDP (2002)

Korea, North
  NA

Korea, South
  4.6% of GDP (2004)

Kuwait
  3.8% of GDP (2006)

Kyrgyzstan
  4.9% of GDP (2005)

Laos
  3% of GDP (2006)

Latvia
  5.1% of GDP (2004)

Lebanon
  2.7% of GDP (2006)

Lesotho
  13% of GDP (2006)

Liberia
  NA

Libya
  2.7% of GDP (1999)

Liechtenstein
  NA

Lithuania
  5% of GDP (2005)

Luxembourg
  3.4% of GDP (1999)

Macau
  2.4% of GDP (2005)

Macedonia
  3.5% of GDP (2002)

Madagascar
  3.1% of GDP (2006)

Malawi
  5.8% of GDP (2003)

Malaysia
  6.2% of GDP (2004)

Maldives
  8% of GDP (2006)

Mali
  4.5% of GDP (2006)

Malta
  5.1% of GDP (2004)

Marshall Islands
  11.8% of GDP (2004)

Mauritania
  2.9% of GDP (2006)

Mauritius
  3.9% of GDP (2006)

Mayotte
  NA

Mexico
  5.5% of GDP (2005)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  7.3% of GDP (2000)

Moldova
  7.6% of GDP (2006)

Monaco
  4.4% of GDP (2004)

Mongolia
  5% of GDP (2004)

Montenegro
  NA

Montserrat
  3.3% of GDP (2004)

Morocco
  NA

Mozambique
  5% of GDP (2005)

Namibia
  6.9% of GDP (2003)

Nauru
  NA

Nepal
  3.4% of GDP (2003)

Netherlands
  5.3% of GDP (2005)

Netherlands Antilles
  NA

New Zealand
  6.2% of GDP (2006)

Nicaragua
  3.1% of GDP (2003)

Niger
  3.4% of GDP (2006)

Nigeria
  0.9% of GDP (1991)

Niue
  NA

Norfolk Island
  NA

Northern Mariana Islands
  NA

Norway
  7.2% of GDP (2005)

Oman
  4% of GDP (2006)

Pakistan
  2.6% of GDP (2006)

Palau
  10.3% of GDP (2002)

Panama
  3.8% of GDP (2004)

Papua New Guinea
  NA

Paraguay
  4% of GDP (2004)

Peru
  2.5% of GDP (2006)

Philippines
  2.5% of GDP (2005)

Poland
  5.5% of GDP (2005)

Portugal
  5.5% of GDP (2005)

Puerto Rico
  NA

Qatar
  3.3% of GDP (2005)

Romania
  3.5% of GDP (2005)

Russia
  3.8% of GDP (2005)

Rwanda
  3.8% of GDP (2005)

Saint Helena
  NA

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  9.3% of GDP (2005)

Saint Lucia
  6.6% of GDP (2006)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon
  NA

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  8.1% of GDP (2005)

Samoa
  4.3% of GDP (2002)

San Marino
  NA

Sao Tome and Principe
  NA

Saudi Arabia
  6.8% of GDP (2004)

Senegal
  5% of GDP (2006)

Serbia
  NA

Seychelles
  6.5% of GDP (2006)

Sierra Leone
  3.8% of GDP (2005)

Singapore
  3.7% of GDP (2001)

Slovakia
  3.9% of GDP (2005)

Slovenia
  6% of GDP (2005)

Solomon Islands
  3.3% of GDP (1999)

Somalia
  NA

South Africa
  5.4% of GDP (2006)

Spain
  4.2% of GDP (2005)

Sri Lanka
  NA

Sudan
  6% of GDP (1991)

Suriname
  NA

Swaziland
  7% of GDP (2005)

Sweden
  7.1% of GDP (2005)

Switzerland
  5.8% of GDP (2005)

Syria
  3.9% of GDP (1999)

Taiwan
  NA

Tajikistan
  3.4% of GDP (2006)

Tanzania
  2.2% of GDP (1999)

Thailand
  4.2% of GDP (2005)

Timor-Leste
  NA

Togo
  2.6% of GDP (2002)

Tokelau
  NA

Tonga
  5% of GDP (2004)

Trinidad and Tobago
  4.2% of GDP (200)

Tunisia
  7.3% of GDP (2005)

Turkey
  4% of GDP (2004)

Turkmenistan
  3.9% of GDP (1991)

Turks and Caicos Islands
  NA

Tuvalu
  NA

Uganda
  5.2% of GDP (2004)

Ukraine
  6.3% of GDP (2006)

United Arab Emirates
  1.3% of GDP (2005)

United Kingdom
  5.6% of GDP (2005)

United States
  5.3% of GDP (2005)

Uruguay
  2.9% of GDP (2006)

Uzbekistan
  9.4% of GDP (1991)

Vanuatu
  9.5% of GDP (2003)

Venezuela
  3.7% of GDP (2006)

Vietnam
  1.8% of GDP (1991)

Virgin Islands
  NA

West Bank
  NA

Yemen
  9.6% of GDP (2001)

Zambia
  2% of GDP (2005)

Zimbabwe
  4.6% of GDP (2000)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2207  Central bank discount rate (%)


Afghanistan
  NA

Albania
  6.25% (31 December 2007)

Algeria
  4% (31 December 2007)

Angola
  19.57% (31 December 2007)

Anguilla
  6.5% (31 December 2007)

Antigua and Barbuda
  6.5% (31 December 2007)

Argentina
  NA

Aruba
  5% (31 December 2007)

Australia
  NA

Azerbaijan
  13% (31 December 2007)

Bahamas, The
  5.25% (31 December 2007)

Bangladesh
  5% (31 December 2007)

Barbados
  12% (31 December 2007)

Belarus
  10% (31 December 2007)

Belize
  12% (31 December 2007)

Benin
  4.25% (31 December 2007)

Bolivia
  6.5% (31 December 2007)

Botswana
  14.5% (31 December 2007)

Brazil
  17.85% (31 December 2007)

Bulgaria
  4.58% (31 December 2007)

Burkina Faso
  4.25% (31 December 2007)

Burma
  12% (31 December 2007)

Burundi
  10.12% (31 December 2007)

Cambodia
  5.25% (31 December 2007)

Canada
  4.5% (31 December 2007)

Cape Verde
  8.5% (31 December 2007)

Central African Republic
  5.25% (31 December 2007)

Chad
  5.25% (31 December 2007)

Chile
  6% (31 December 2007)

China
  3.33% (31 December 2007)

Colombia
  11.5% (31 December 2007)

Comoros
  5.36% (31 December 2007)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  5.25% (31 December 2007)

Costa Rica
  17% (31 December 2007)

Cote d'Ivoire
  4.25% (31 December 2007)

Croatia
  9% (31 December 2007)

Cuba
  NA

Cyprus
  5% (31 December 2007)

Czech Republic
  3.5% (31 December 2007)

Denmark
  4% (31 December 2007)

Dominica
  6.5% (31 December 2007)

Ecuador
  10.72% (31 December 2007)

Egypt
  9% (31 December 2007)

Equatorial Guinea
  5.25% (31 December 2007)

European Union
  5%
  note: This is the European Central Bank's rate on the marginal
  lending facility, which offers overnight credit to banks from the
  Eurosystem (31 December 2007)

Fiji
  9.25% (31 December 2007)

France
  NA

Gabon
  5.25% (31 December 2007)

Gambia, The
  10% (31 December 2007)

Germany
  NA

Ghana
  13.5% (31 December 2007)

Greece
  NA

Grenada
  6.5% (31 December 2007)

Guatemala
  NA (31 December 2007)

Guinea
  22.25% (31 December 2005)

Guinea-Bissau
  4.25% (31 December 2007)

Guyana
  6.5% (31 December 2007)

Honduras
  NA (31 December 2007)

Hong Kong
  5.75% (31 December 2007)

Hungary
  7.5% (31 December 2007)

Iceland
  15.25% (31 December 2007)

India
  6% (31 December 2007)

Indonesia
  8% (31 December 2007)

Iraq
  20% (31 December 2007)

Ireland
  NA

Israel
  4% (31 December 2007)

Italy
  NA

Jamaica
  NA (31 December 2007)

Japan
  0.75% (31 December 2007)

Jordan
  7% (31 December 2007)

Kazakhstan
  11% (31 December 2007)

Korea, South
  3.25% (31 December 2007)

Kuwait
  6.25% (31 December 2007)

Laos
  12.67% (31 December 2007)

Latvia
  6% (31 December 2007)

Lebanon
  12% (31 December 2007)

Lesotho
  12.82% (31 December 2007)

Libya
  4% (31 December 2007)

Lithuania
  4.85% (31 December 2007)

Macedonia
  6.5% (31 December 2007)

Malawi
  15% (31 December 2007)

Maldives
  12.5% (31 December 2007)

Mali
  4.25% (31 December 2007)

Malta
  NA (31 December 2007)

Mauritania
  NA

Mexico
  NA

Mongolia
  9.87% (31 December 2007)

Montserrat
  6.5% (31 December 2007)

Morocco
  3.25% (31 December 2007)

Mozambique
  9.95% (31 December 2007)

Namibia
  10.5% (31 December 2007)

Nepal
  6.25% (31 December 2007)

Netherlands
  NA (31 December 2007)

Netherlands Antilles
  NA (31 December 2007)

New Zealand
  8.25% (31 December 2007)

Nicaragua
  NA (31 December 2007)

Niger
  4.25% (31 December 2007)

Nigeria
  9.5% (31 December 2007)

Norway
  6.25% (31 December 2007)

Oman
  1.98% (31 December 2007)

Pakistan
  10% (31 December 2007)

Papua New Guinea
  7.38% (31 December 2007)

Paraguay
  20% (31 December 2007)

Peru
  5.75% (31 December 2007)

Philippines
  4.28% (31 December 2007)

Poland
  5% (31 December 2007)

Qatar
  NA

Romania
  NA

Russia
  10% (31 December 2007)

Rwanda
  12.5% (31 December 2007)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  6.5% (31 December 2007)

Saint Lucia
  6.5% (31 December 2007)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  6.5% (31 December 2007)

Sao Tome and Principe
  28% (31 December 2007)

Saudi Arabia
  NA

Senegal
  4.25% (31 December 2007)

Serbia
  9.57% (31 December 2007)

Seychelles
  5.13% (31 December 2007)

Sierra Leone
  NA (31 December 2007)

Slovakia
  4.25% (31 December 2007)

Slovenia
  NA (31 December 2007)

South Africa
  11% (31 December 2007)

Spain
  NA

Sri Lanka
  15% (31 December 2007)

Swaziland
  11% (31 December 2007)

Sweden
  3.5% (31 December 2007)

Switzerland
  2.05% (31 December 2007)

Taiwan
  NA

Tajikistan
  15% (31 December 2007)

Tanzania
  16.4% (31 December 2007)

Thailand
  3.75% (31 December 2007)

Togo
  4.25% (31 December 2007)

Trinidad and Tobago
  10% (31 December 2007)

Turkey
  25% (31 December 2007)

Uganda
  14.68% (31 December 2007)

Ukraine
  8% (31 December 2007)

United Arab Emirates
  NA

United Kingdom
  NA

United States
  4.83% (31 December 2007)

Uruguay
  10% (31 December 2007)

Vanuatu
  6% (31 December 2007)

Venezuela
  28.5% (31 December 2007)

Vietnam
  6.5% (31 December 2007)

Yemen
  NA

Zambia
  11.73% (31 December 2007)

Zimbabwe
  975% (31 December 2007)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2208  Commercial bank prime lending rate (%)


Afghanistan
  18.14% (31 December 2007)

Albania
  14.1% (31 December 2007)

Algeria
  8% (31 December 2007)

Angola
  17.7% (31 December 2007)

Anguilla
  9.76% (31 December 2007)

Antigua and Barbuda
  10.44% (31 December 2007)

Argentina
  11.05% (31 December 2007)

Armenia
  17.52% (31 December 2007)

Aruba
  11.01% (31 December 2007)

Australia
  10.02% (31 December 2007)

Austria
  6.3% (31 December 2007)

Azerbaijan
  19.13% (31 December 2007)

Bahamas, The
  5.5% (31 December 2007)

Bahrain
  8.35% (31 December 2007)

Bangladesh
  16% (31 December 2007)

Barbados
  10.8% (31 December 2007)

Belarus
  8.58% (31 December 2007)

Belgium
  6.98% (31 December 2007)

Belize
  14.33% (31 December 2007)

Benin
  NA

Bhutan
  14% (31 December 2007)

Bolivia
  12.86% (31 December 2007)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  7.17% (31 December 2007)

Botswana
  16.22% (31 December 2007)

Brazil
  43.72% (31 December 2007)

Brunei
  5.5% (31 December 2007)

Bulgaria
  10% (31 December 2007)

Burkina Faso
  NA

Burma
  17% (31 December 2007)

Burundi
  16.84% (31 December 2007)

Cameroon
  15% (31 December 2007)

Canada
  6.1% (31 December 2007)

Cape Verde
  10.55% (31 December 2007)

Central African Republic
  15% (31 December 2007)

Chad
  15% (31 December 2007)

Chile
  8.67% (31 December 2007)

China
  7.47% (31 December 2007)

Colombia
  15.38% (31 December 2007)

Comoros
  10.5% (31 December 2007)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  NA

Congo, Republic of the
  15% (31 December 2007)

Costa Rica
  12.8% (31 December 2007)

Cote d'Ivoire
  NA

Croatia
  9.33% (31 December 2007)

Cuba
  NA

Cyprus
  6.74% (31 December 2007)

Czech Republic
  5.79% (31 December 2007)

Denmark
  NA

Djibouti
  NA

Dominica
  9.17% (31 December 2007)

Dominican Republic
  15.83% (31 December 2007)

Ecuador
  12.08% (31 December 2007)

Egypt
  12.51% (31 December 2007)

El Salvador
  NA

Equatorial Guinea
  15% (31 December 2007)

Estonia
  6.46% (31 December 2007)

Ethiopia
  7% (31 December 2006)

European Union
  8.03% (31 December 2007)

Fiji
  9.01% (31 December 2007)

Finland
  5.62% (31 December 2007)

France
  7.28% (31 December 2007)

Gabon
  15% (31 December 2007)

Gambia, The
  27.92% (31 December 2007)

Gaza Strip
  7.73% (31 December 2006)

Georgia
  20.41% (31 December 2007)

Germany
  5.96% (31 December 2007)

Ghana
  NA

Greece
  7.71% (31 December 2007)

Grenada
  9.76% (31 December 2007)

Guatemala
  12.84% (31 December 2007)

Guinea
  NA (31 December 2007)

Guyana
  14.61% (31 December 2007)

Haiti
  46.99% (31 December 2007)

Honduras
  16.61% (31 December 2007)

Hong Kong
  6.75% (31 December 2007)

Hungary
  9.09% (31 December 2007)

Iceland
  19.29% (31 December 2007)

India
  13.02% (31 December 2007)

Indonesia
  13.86% (31 December 2007)

Iran
  12% (31 December 2007)

Iraq
  19.74% (31 December 2007)

Ireland
  6.52% (31 December 2007)

Israel
  6.27% (31 December 2007)

Italy
  10.93% (31 December 2007)

Jamaica
  17.2% (31 December 2007)

Japan
  1.88% (31 December 2007)

Jordan
  8.68% (31 December 2007)

Kenya
  13.34% (31 December 2007)

Korea, South
  6.55% (31 December 2007)

Kuwait
  8.54% (31 December 2007)

Kyrgyzstan
  25.32% (31 December 2007)

Laos
  28.5% (31 December 2007)

Latvia
  10.91% (31 December 2007)

Lebanon
  10.26% (31 December 2007)

Lesotho
  14.13% (31 December 2007)

Liberia
  15.05% (31 December 2007)

Libya
  6% (31 December 2007)

Lithuania
  6.86% (31 December 2007)

Macau
  7.81% (31 December 2007)

Macedonia
  10.23% (31 December 2007)

Madagascar
  45% (31 December 2007)

Malawi
  27.72% (31 December 2007)

Malaysia
  6.41% (31 December 2007)

Maldives
  13% (31 December 2007)

Mali
  NA (31 December 2007)

Malta
  6.24% (31 December 2007)

Mauritius
  21.87% (31 December 2007)

Mexico
  7.56% (31 December 2007)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  14.03% (31 December 2007)

Moldova
  18.83% (31 December 2007)

Mongolia
  17.54% (31 December 2007)

Montenegro
  9.09% (31 December 2007)

Montserrat
  10.4% (31 December 2007)

Morocco
  NA (31 December 2007)

Mozambique
  19.52% (31 December 2007)

Namibia
  12.88% (31 December 2007)

Nepal
  8% (31 December 2007)

Netherlands
  8.72% (31 December 2007)

Netherlands Antilles
  9.21% (31 December 2007)

New Zealand
  12.83% (31 December 2007)

Nicaragua
  13.04% (31 December 2007)

Niger
  NA (31 December 2007)

Nigeria
  16.94% (31 December 2007)

Norway
  6.65% (31 December 2007)

Oman
  7.29% (31 December 2007)

Panama
  8.25% (31 December 2007)

Papua New Guinea
  9.78% (31 December 2007)

Paraguay
  25.03% (31 December 2007)

Peru
  22.86% (31 December 2007)

Philippines
  8.69% (31 December 2007)

Poland
  5.48% (31 December 2006)

Portugal
  7.92% (31 December 2007)

Qatar
  7.43% (31 December 2007)

Romania
  13.35% (31 December 2007)

Russia
  10.03% (31 December 2007)

Rwanda
  15.84% (31 December 2007)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  9.28% (31 December 2007)

Saint Lucia
  10.12% (31 December 2007)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  9.61% (31 December 2007)

Samoa
  12.65% (31 December 2007)

San Marino
  7.58% (31 December 2007)

Sao Tome and Principe
  32.4% (31 December 2007)

Saudi Arabia
  NA

Senegal
  NA (31 December 2007)

Serbia
  11.13% (31 December 2007)

Seychelles
  10.89% (31 December 2007)

Sierra Leone
  25% (31 December 2007)

Singapore
  5.33% (31 December 2007)

Slovakia
  7.99% (31 December 2007)

Slovenia
  6.82% (31 December 2007)

Solomon Islands
  14.12% (31 December 2007)

South Africa
  13.17% (31 December 2007)

Spain
  9.89% (31 December 2007)

Sri Lanka
  17.08% (31 December 2007)

Suriname
  13.77% (31 December 2007)

Swaziland
  13.17% (31 December 2007)

Sweden
  4% (31 December 2004)

Switzerland
  3.15% (31 December 2007)

Syria
  8% (31 December 2005)

Taiwan
  NA

Tajikistan
  22.87% (31 December 2007)

Tanzania
  16.03% (31 December 2007)

Thailand
  7.05% (31 December 2007)

Timor-Leste
  15.05% (31 December 2007)

Togo
  NA (31 December 2007)

Tonga
  12.16% (31 December 2007)

Trinidad and Tobago
  11.75% (31 December 2007)

Uganda
  19.11% (31 December 2007)

Ukraine
  13.9% (31 December 2007)

United Kingdom
  5.52% (31 December 2007)

United States
  8.05% (31 December 2007)

Uruguay
  8.94% (31 December 2007)

Vanuatu
  8.16% (31 December 2007)

Venezuela
  17.11% (31 December 2007)

Vietnam
  11.18% (31 December 2007)

West Bank
  7.73% (31 December 2006)

Yemen
  18% (31 December 2007)

Zambia
  18.89% (31 December 2007)

Zimbabwe
  578.96% (31 December 2007)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2209  Stock of money


Afghanistan
  $1.426 billion (31 December 2007)

Albania
  $2.707 billion (31 December 2007)

Algeria
  $55.43 billion (31 December 2007)

Angola
  $4.153 billion (31 December 2007)

Anguilla
  $23.57 million (31 December 2007)

Antigua and Barbuda
  $294.8 million (31 December 2007)

Argentina
  $33.93 billion (31 December 2007)

Armenia
  $1.507 billion (31 December 2007)

Aruba
  $640.9 million (31 December 2007)

Australia
  $298.5 billion (31 December 2007)

Austria
  NA
  note: see entry for the European Union for money supply in the Euro
  Area; the European Central Bank (ECB) controls monetary policy for
  the 15 members of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU); individual
  members of the EMU do not control the quantity of money and quasi
  money circulating within their own borders

Azerbaijan
  $4.261 billion (31 December 2007)

Bahamas, The
  $1.274 billion (31 December 2007)

Bahrain
  $4.169 billion (31 December 2007)

Bangladesh
  $8.444 billion (31 December 2007)

Barbados
  $1.478 billion (31 December 2007)

Belarus
  $4.065 billion (31 December 2007)

Belgium
  NA
  note: see entry for the European Union for money supply in the Euro
  Area; the European Central Bank (ECB) controls monetary policy for
  the 15 members of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU); individual
  members of the EMU do not control the quantity of money and quasi
  money circulating within their own borders

Belize
  $323.9 million (31 December 2007)

Benin
  $1.324 billion (31 December 2007)

Bhutan
  $381.1 million (31 December 2007)

Bolivia
  $3.032 billion (31 December 2007)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  $5.13 billion (31 December 2007)

Botswana
  $1.026 billion (31 December 2007)

Brazil
  $131.1 billion (31 December 2007)

Brunei
  $2.674 billion (31 December 2007)

Bulgaria
  $15.58 billion (31 December 2007)

Burkina Faso
  $1.051 billion (31 December 2007)

Burma
  $598 billion
  note: This number reflects the vastly overvalued official exchange
  rate of 5.38 kyat per dollar. At the unofficial black market rate of
  1305 kyat per dollar, the stock of kyats would equal only US$2.465
  billion and Burma's velocity of money (the number of times money
  turns over in the course of a year) would be six, in line with the
  velocity of money for other countries in the region. (31 December
  2007)

Burundi
  $208.7 million (31 December 2007)

Cambodia
  $513.6 million (31 December 2007)

Cameroon
  $2.616 billion (31 December 2007)

Canada
  $391.6 billion (31 December 2007)

Cape Verde
  $574 million (31 December 2007)

Central African Republic
  $218.3 million (31 December 2007)

Chad
  $874.5 million (31 December 2007)

Chile
  $16.6 billion (31 December 2007)

China
  $2.09 trillion (31 December 2007)

Colombia
  $21.81 billion (31 December 2007)

Comoros
  $76.68 million (31 December 2007)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  $597 million (31 December 2007)

Congo, Republic of the
  $1.4 billion (31 December 2007)

Costa Rica
  $4.504 billion (31 December 2007)

Cote d'Ivoire
  $4.451 billion (31 December 2007)

Croatia
  $11.61 billion (31 December 2007)

Cuba
  NA

Cyprus
  $4.094 billion
  note: see entry for the European Union for money supply in the Euro
  Area; the European Central Bank (ECB) controls monetary policy for
  the 15 members of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU); individual
  members of the EMU do not control the quantity of money and quasi
  money circulating within their own borders (31 December 2007)

Czech Republic
  $84.43 billion (31 December 2007)

Denmark
  $148.7 billion (31 December 2007)

Djibouti
  $380 million (31 December 2007)

Dominica
  $73.71 million (31 December 2007)

Dominican Republic
  $4.074 billion (31 December 2007)

Ecuador
  $4.395 billion (31 December 2007)

Egypt
  $27.6 billion (31 December 2007)

El Salvador
  $1.802 billion (31 December 2007)

Equatorial Guinea
  $835.2 million (31 December 2007)

Eritrea
  $749.1 million (31 December 2007)

Estonia
  $7.158 billion (31 December 2007)

Ethiopia
  $3.651 billion (31 December 2006)

European Union
  $5.742 trillion
  note: this is the quantity of money, M1, for the Euro Area,
  converted into US dollars at the exchange rate for the date
  indicated; it excludes the stock of money carried by non-Eurozone
  members of the European Union

Fiji
  $1.042 billion (31 December 2007)

Finland
  NA
  note: see entry for the European Union for money supply in the Euro
  Area; the European Central Bank (ECB) controls monetary policy for
  the 15 members of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU); individual
  members of the EMU do not control the quantity of money and quasi
  money circulating within their own borders

France
  NA
  note: see entry for the European Union for money supply in the Euro
  Area; the European Central Bank (ECB) controls monetary policy for
  the 15 members of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU); individual
  members of the EMU do not control the quantity of money and quasi
  money circulating within their own borders

Gabon
  $1.547 billion (31 December 2007)

Gambia, The
  $186.7 million (31 December 2007)

Gaza Strip
  $1.574 billion (31 December 2007)

Georgia
  $1.154 billion (31 December 2007)

Germany
  NA
  note: see entry for the European Union for money supply in the Euro
  Area; the European Central Bank (ECB) controls monetary policy for
  the 15 members of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU); individual
  members of the EMU do not control the quantity of money and quasi
  money circulating within their own borders

Ghana
  $2.179 billion (31 December 2006)

Greece
  NA
  note: see entry for the European Union for money supply in the Euro
  Area; the European Central Bank (ECB) controls monetary policy for
  the 15 members of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU); individual
  members of the EMU do not control the quantity of money and quasi
  money circulating within their own borders

Grenada
  $151.2 million (31 December 2007)

Guatemala
  $6.227 billion (31 December 2007)

Guinea
  $309.8 million (31 December 2005)

Guinea-Bissau
  $142.5 million (31 December 2007)

Guyana
  $315.2 million (31 December 2007)

Haiti
  $704.7 million (31 December 2007)

Honduras
  $1.573 billion (31 December 2007)

Hong Kong
  $51.25 billion (31 December 2007)

Hungary
  $36.78 billion (31 December 2007)

Iceland
  $6.64 billion (31 December 2007)

India
  $250.9 billion (31 December 2007)

Indonesia
  $47.78 billion (31 December 2007)

Iran
  $46.13 billion (31 December 2007)

Iraq
  $18.81 billion (31 December 2007)

Ireland
  NA
  note: see entry for the European Union for money supply in the Euro
  Area; the European Central Bank (ECB) controls monetary policy for
  the 15 members of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU); individual
  members of the EMU do not control the quantity of money and quasi
  money circulating within their own borders

Israel
  $15.36 billion (31 December 2006)

Italy
  NA
  note: see entry for the European Union for money supply in the Euro
  Area; the European Central Bank (ECB) controls monetary policy for
  the 15 members of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU); individual
  members of the EMU do not control the quantity of money and quasi
  money circulating within their own borders

Jamaica
  $1.369 billion (31 December 2007)

Japan
  $4.37 trillion (31 December 2007)

Jordan
  $6.765 billion (31 December 2007)

Kazakhstan
  $12.74 billion (31 December 2007)

Kenya
  $5.932 billion (31 December 2007)

Korea, South
  $92.59 billion (31 December 2007)

Kuwait
  $15.12 billion (31 December 2007)

Kyrgyzstan
  $911.1 million (31 December 2007)

Laos
  $327.9 million (31 December 2007)

Latvia
  $8.196 billion (31 December 2007)

Lebanon
  $2.374 billion (31 December 2007)

Lesotho
  $439.2 million (31 December 2007)

Liberia
  $145.6 million (31 December 2007)

Libya
  $18.04 billion (31 December 2007)

Lithuania
  $11.84 billion (31 December 2007)

Luxembourg
  NA
  note: see entry for the European Union for money supply in the Euro
  Area; the European Central Bank (ECB) controls monetary policy for
  the 15 members of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU); individual
  members of the EMU do not control the quantity of money and quasi
  money circulating within their own borders

Macau
  $1.16 billion (31 December 2007)

Macedonia
  $1.173 billion (31 December 2007)

Madagascar
  $1.161 billion (31 December 2007)

Malawi
  $361.5 million (31 December 2007)

Malaysia
  $49.41 billion (31 December 2007)

Maldives
  $344.1 million (31 December 2007)

Mali
  $1.58 billion (31 December 2007)

Malta
  $4.603 billion
  note: see entry for the European Union for money supply in the Euro
  Area; the European Central Bank (ECB) controls monetary policy for
  the 15 members of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU); individual
  members of the EMU do not control the quantity of money and quasi
  money circulating within their own borders (31 December 2007)

Mauritania
  NA (31 December 2007)

Mauritius
  $1.673 billion (31 December 2007)

Mexico
  $103.5 billion (31 December 2007)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  $22.45 million (31 December 2007)

Moldova
  $965 million (31 December 2007)

Mongolia
  $504.7 million (31 December 2007)

Montenegro
  $1.172 billion (31 December 2007)

Montserrat
  $17.9 million (31 December 2007)

Morocco
  $67.42 billion (31 December 2007)

Mozambique
  $1.261 billion (31 December 2007)

Namibia
  $2.149 billion (31 December 2007)

Nepal
  $2.184 billion (31 December 2007)

Netherlands
  NA
  note: see entry for the European Union for money supply in the Euro
  Area; the European Central Bank (ECB) controls monetary policy for
  the 15 members of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU); individual
  members of the EMU do not control the quantity of money and quasi
  money circulating within their own borders

Netherlands Antilles
  $1.133 billion (31 December 2007)

New Zealand
  $24.2 billion (31 December 2007)

Nicaragua
  $465.1 million (31 December 2007)

Niger
  $604.5 million (31 December 2007)

Nigeria
  $21.72 billion (31 December 2007)

Norway
  NA (31 December 2007)

Oman
  $5.044 billion (31 December 2007)

Pakistan
  $52.76 billion (31 December 2007)

Panama
  $3.054 billion (31 December 2007)

Papua New Guinea
  $1.685 billion (31 December 2007)

Paraguay
  $1.943 billion (31 December 2007)

Peru
  $14.66 billion (31 December 2007)

Philippines
  $21.27 billion (31 December 2007)

Poland
  $137.4 billion (31 December 2007)

Portugal
  NA
  note: see entry for the European Union for money supply in the Euro
  Area; the European Central Bank (ECB) controls monetary policy for
  the 15 members of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU); individual
  members of the EMU do not control the quantity of money and quasi
  money circulating within their own borders

Qatar
  $9.718 billion (31 December 2007)

Romania
  $25.17 billion (31 December 2007)

Russia
  $303.7 billion (31 December 2007)

Rwanda
  $233.6 million (31 December 2005)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  $97.31 million (31 December 2007)

Saint Lucia
  $264.7 million (31 December 2007)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  $155.5 million (31 December 2007)

Samoa
  $69.97 million (31 December 2007)

San Marino
  $1.326 billion (31 December 2007)

Sao Tome and Principe
  $19.99 million (31 December 2007)

Saudi Arabia
  $102.4 billion (31 December 2007)

Senegal
  $2.842 billion (31 December 2007)

Serbia
  $4.632 billion (31 December 2007)

Seychelles
  $330.8 million (31 December 2007)

Sierra Leone
  $184.6 million (31 December 2007)

Singapore
  $44.4 billion (31 December 2007)

Slovakia
  $26.17 billion (31 December 2007)

Slovenia
  $9.347 billion
  note: see entry for the European Union for money supply in the Euro
  Area; the European Central Bank (ECB) controls monetary policy for
  the 15 members of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU); individual
  members of the EMU do not control the quantity of money and quasi
  money circulating within their own borders (31 December 2006)

Solomon Islands
  $118.3 million (31 December 2007)

South Africa
  $58.49 billion (31 December 2007)

Spain
  NA
  note: see entry for the European Union for money supply in the Euro
  Area; the European Central Bank (ECB) controls monetary policy for
  the 15 members of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU); individual
  members of the EMU do not control the quantity of money and quasi
  money circulating within their own borders

Sri Lanka
  $2.465 billion (31 December 2007)

Sudan
  $5.549 billion (31 December 2007)

Suriname
  $416.6 million (31 December 2007)

Swaziland
  $244.8 million (31 December 2007)

Sweden
  $217.1 billion (31 December 2007)

Switzerland
  $213.9 billion (31 December 2007)

Syria
  $58.84 billion
  note: This number reflects the greatly overvalued official exchange
  rate of 11.23 Syrian pounds per dollar. At the unofficial rate of 50
  Syrian pounds per dollar, the stock of Syrian pounds would equal
  US$13.22 billion and Syria's velocity of money (the number of times
  money turns over in the course of a year) would be three, in line
  with the velocity of money for other countries in the region. (31
  December 2006)

Taiwan
  NA

Tajikistan
  $91.59 million (31 December 2006)

Tanzania
  $2.263 billion (31 December 2007)

Thailand
  $28.62 billion (31 December 2007)

Timor-Leste
  $74.94 million (31 December 2007)

Togo
  $624.9 million (31 December 2007)

Tonga
  $46.38 million (31 December 2007)

Trinidad and Tobago
  $2.646 billion (31 December 2007)

Tunisia
  $9.491 billion (31 December 2007)

Turkey
  $64.43 billion (31 December 2007)

Uganda
  $1.363 billion (31 December 2007)

Ukraine
  $35.97 billion (31 December 2007)

United Arab Emirates
  $49.5 billion (31 December 2007)

United States
  $1.374 trillion (31 December 2007)

Uruguay
  $2.145 billion (31 December 2007)

Vanuatu
  $107.1 million (31 December 2007)

Venezuela
  $63.18 billion (31 December 2007)

Vietnam
  $27.15 billion (31 December 2007)

West Bank
  $1.574 billion (31 December 2007)

Yemen
  $3.076 billion (31 December 2007)

Zambia
  $995.8 million (31 December 2007)

Zimbabwe
  $14.18 billion
  note: This number reflects the vastly overvalued official exchange
  rate of 30,000 Zimbabwe dollars per US dollar. At an unofficial rate
  of 800,000 Zimbabwe dollars per US dollar, the stock of Zimbabwe
  dollars would equal only about US$500 million and Zimbabwe's
  velocity of money (the number of times money turns over in the
  course of a year) would be nine, in line with the velocity of money
  for other countries in the region. (31 December 2007)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2210  Stock of quasi money


Afghanistan
  $958.6 million (31 December 2007)

Albania
  $6.433 billion (31 December 2007)

Algeria
  $28.59 billion (31 December 2007)

Angola
  $7.216 billion (31 December 2007)

Anguilla
  $470.1 million (31 December 2007)

Antigua and Barbuda
  $902 million (31 December 2007)

Argentina
  $45.92 billion (31 December 2007)

Armenia
  $765.2 million (31 December 2007)

Aruba
  $792.9 million (31 December 2007)

Australia
  $667.2 billion (31 December 2007)

Austria
  NA

Azerbaijan
  $2.593 billion (31 December 2007)

Bahamas, The
  $4.324 billion (31 December 2007)

Bahrain
  $10.63 billion (31 December 2007)

Bangladesh
  $32.4 billion (31 December 2007)

Barbados
  $2.717 billion (31 December 2007)

Belarus
  $6.823 billion (31 December 2007)

Belgium
  NA

Belize
  $549 million (31 December 2007)

Benin
  $627.2 million (31 December 2007)

Bhutan
  $220.3 million (31 December 2007)

Bolivia
  $4.729 billion (31 December 2007)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  $5.597 billion (31 December 2007)

Botswana
  $4.336 billion (31 December 2007)

Brazil
  $792.8 billion (31 December 2007)

Brunei
  $4.258 billion (31 December 2007)

Bulgaria
  $17.03 billion (31 December 2007)

Burkina Faso
  $663 million (31 December 2007)

Burma
  $216.9 billion (31 December 2007)

Burundi
  $141 million (31 December 2007)

Cambodia
  $2.309 billion (31 December 2007)

Cameroon
  $1.698 billion (31 December 2007)

Canada
  $1.381 trillion (31 December 2007)

Cape Verde
  $689 million (31 December 2007)

Central African Republic
  $47.58 million (31 December 2007)

Chad
  $55.23 million (31 December 2007)

Chile
  $80.42 billion (31 December 2007)

China
  $3.437 trillion (31 December 2007)

Colombia
  $27.25 billion (31 December 2007)

Comoros
  $23.39 million (31 December 2007)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  $677.9 million (31 December 2007)

Congo, Republic of the
  $204.3 million (31 December 2007)

Costa Rica
  $2.87 billion (31 December 2007)

Cote d'Ivoire
  $1.915 billion (31 December 2007)

Croatia
  $31.86 billion (31 December 2007)

Cuba
  NA

Cyprus
  $43.93 billion (31 December 2007)

Czech Republic
  $58.77 billion (31 December 2007)

Denmark
  $81.64 billion (31 December 2007)

Djibouti
  $284.1 million (31 December 2007)

Dominica
  $269.1 million (31 December 2007)

Dominican Republic
  $5.631 billion (31 December 2007)

Ecuador
  $7.974 billion (31 December 2007)

Egypt
  $102.6 billion (31 December 2007)

El Salvador
  $764.1 million (31 December 2007)

Equatorial Guinea
  $174.5 million (31 December 2007)

Eritrea
  $932.9 million (31 December 2007)

Estonia
  $4.253 billion (31 December 2007)

Ethiopia
  $3.258 billion (31 December 2007)

European Union
  $10.93 trillion
  note: this is the quantity of quasi money, M2, for the Euro Area,
  converted into US dollars at the exchange rate for the date
  indicated; it excludes the stock of quasi money carried by
  non-Eurozone members of the European Union

Fiji
  $1.088 billion (31 December 2007)

Finland
  NA

France
  NA

Gabon
  $799.3 million (31 December 2007)

Gambia, The
  $180.4 million (31 December 2007)

Gaza Strip
  $3.048 billion (31 December 2007)

Georgia
  $1.379 billion (31 December 2007)

Germany
  NA

Ghana
  $2.174 billion (31 December 2006)

Greece
  NA

Grenada
  $533.4 million (31 December 2007)

Guatemala
  $8.928 billion (31 December 2007)

Guinea
  NA (31 December 2007)

Guinea-Bissau
  $12.04 million (31 December 2007)

Guyana
  $728.8 million (31 December 2007)

Haiti
  $1.561 billion (31 December 2007)

Honduras
  $5.266 billion (31 December 2007)

Hong Kong
  $578.1 billion (31 December 2007)

Hungary
  $43.07 billion (31 December 2007)

Iceland
  $15.05 billion (31 December 2006)

India
  $647.3 billion (31 December 2007)

Indonesia
  $127 billion (31 December 2007)

Iran
  $68.71 billion (31 December 2007)

Iraq
  $3.67 billion (31 December 2007)

Ireland
  NA (31 December 2007)

Israel
  $154.3 billion (31 December 2007)

Italy
  NA (31 December 2007)

Jamaica
  $4.54 billion (31 December 2007)

Japan
  $4.783 trillion (31 December 2007)

Jordan
  $15.38 billion (31 December 2007)

Kazakhstan
  $25.75 billion (31 December 2007)

Kenya
  $6.273 billion (31 December 2007)

Korea, South
  $541.7 billion (31 December 2007)

Kuwait
  $55.2 billion (31 December 2007)

Kyrgyzstan
  $303.7 million (31 December 2007)

Laos
  $717.9 million (31 December 2007)

Latvia
  $5.113 billion (31 December 2007)

Lebanon
  $57.4 billion (31 December 2007)

Lesotho
  $160.2 million (31 December 2007)

Liberia
  $49.89 million (31 December 2007)

Libya
  $3.192 billion (31 December 2007)

Lithuania
  $6.917 billion (31 December 2007)

Luxembourg
  NA (31 December 2007)

Macau
  $21.91 billion (31 December 2007)

Macedonia
  $3.127 billion (31 December 2007)

Madagascar
  $577.4 million (31 December 2007)

Malawi
  $250.4 million (31 December 2007)

Malaysia
  $187.6 billion (31 December 2007)

Maldives
  $434.9 million (31 December 2007)

Mali
  $697.1 million (31 December 2007)

Malta
  $7.645 billion (31 December 2007)

Mauritania
  NA (31 December 2007)

Mauritius
  $6.759 billion (31 December 2007)

Mexico
  $168.4 billion (31 December 2007)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  $72.49 million (31 December 2007)

Moldova
  $1.449 billion (31 December 2007)

Mongolia
  $1.539 billion (31 December 2007)

Montenegro
  $1.446 billion (31 December 2007)

Montserrat
  $43.9 million (31 December 2007)

Morocco
  $16.23 billion (31 December 2007)

Mozambique
  $1.467 billion (31 December 2007)

Namibia
  $1.493 billion (31 December 2007)

Nepal
  $4.745 billion (31 December 2007)

Netherlands
  NA (31 December 2007)

Netherlands Antilles
  $2.309 billion (31 December 2007)

New Zealand
  $117.8 billion (31 December 2007)

Nicaragua
  $1.802 billion (31 December 2007)

Niger
  $193.7 million (31 December 2007)

Nigeria
  $19.07 billion (31 December 2007)

Norway
  NA (31 December 2007)

Oman
  $11.04 billion (31 December 2007)

Pakistan
  $18.42 billion (31 December 2007)

Panama
  $14.26 billion (31 December 2007)

Papua New Guinea
  $1.482 billion (31 December 2007)

Paraguay
  $1.368 billion (31 December 2007)

Peru
  $19.95 billion (31 December 2007)

Philippines
  $65.85 billion (31 December 2007)

Poland
  $93.99 billion (31 December 2007)

Portugal
  NA (31 December 2007)

Qatar
  $22.6 billion (31 December 2007)

Romania
  $34.96 billion (31 December 2007)

Russia
  $292.5 billion (31 December 2007)

Rwanda
  $227.4 million (31 December 2005)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  $688.6 million (31 December 2007)

Saint Lucia
  $720.9 million (31 December 2007)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  $280.2 million (31 December 2007)

Samoa
  $168.7 million (31 December 2007)

San Marino
  $4.584 billion (31 December 2007)

Sao Tome and Principe
  $33.5 million (31 December 2007)

Saudi Arabia
  $109.5 billion (31 December 2007)

Senegal
  $1.579 billion (31 December 2007)

Serbia
  $12.19 billion (31 December 2007)

Seychelles
  $249 million (31 December 2007)

Sierra Leone
  $177.7 million (31 December 2007)

Singapore
  $162.2 billion (31 December 2007)

Slovakia
  $21.11 billion (31 December 2007)

Slovenia
  $12.69 billion (31 December 2006)

Solomon Islands
  $57.89 million (31 December 2007)

South Africa
  $141.9 billion (31 December 2007)

Spain
  NA (31 December 2007)

Sri Lanka
  $10.46 billion (31 December 2007)

Sudan
  $4.068 billion (31 December 2007)

Suriname
  $824.4 million (31 December 2007)

Swaziland
  $529.4 million (31 December 2007)

Sweden
  $48.49 billion (31 December 2007)

Switzerland
  $450.7 billion (31 December 2007)

Syria
  $45.93 billion (31 December 2006)

Taiwan
  NA

Tajikistan
  $161 million (31 December 2006)

Tanzania
  $2.885 billion (31 December 2007)

Thailand
  $216.6 billion (31 December 2007)

Timor-Leste
  $68.78 million (31 December 2007)

Togo
  $383.9 million (31 December 2007)

Tonga
  $106.8 million (31 December 2007)

Trinidad and Tobago
  $5.707 billion (31 December 2007)

Tunisia
  $13.56 billion (31 December 2007)

Turkey
  $254.3 billion (31 December 2007)

Uganda
  $1.302 billion (31 December 2007)

Ukraine
  $41.51 billion (31 December 2007)

United Arab Emirates
  $104.6 billion (31 December 2007)

United States
  $10.1 trillion (31 December 2007)

Uruguay
  $7.919 billion (31 December 2007)

Vanuatu
  $421.8 million (31 December 2007)

Venezuela
  $8.889 billion (31 December 2007)

Vietnam
  $51.08 billion (31 December 2007)

West Bank
  $3.048 billion (31 December 2007)

Yemen
  $4.526 billion (31 December 2007)

Zambia
  $1.709 billion (31 December 2007)

Zimbabwe
  $5.349 billion (31 December 2007)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




@2211  Stock of domestic credit


Afghanistan
  $20.06 million (31 December 2007)

Albania
  $7.341 billion (31 December 2007)

Algeria
  NA

Angola
  $1.385 billion (31 December 2007)

Anguilla
  $447.7 million (31 December 2007)

Antigua and Barbuda
  $1.002 billion (31 December 2007)

Argentina
  $72.55 billion (31 December 2007)

Armenia
  $1.256 billion (31 December 2007)

Aruba
  $1.348 billion (31 December 2007)

Australia
  $1.312 trillion (31 December 2007)

Austria
  $599.5 billion (31 December 2007)

Azerbaijan
  $5.726 billion (31 December 2007)

Bahamas, The
  $7.395 billion (31 December 2007)

Bahrain
  $10.32 billion (31 December 2007)

Bangladesh
  $40.15 billion (31 December 2007)

Barbados
  $3.533 billion (31 December 2007)

Belarus
  $12.16 billion (31 December 2007)

Belgium
  $767.7 billion (31 December 2007)

Belize
  $877.6 million (31 December 2007)

Benin
  $520.6 million (31 December 2007)

Bhutan
  $169.9 million (31 December 2007)

Bolivia
  $4.759 billion (31 December 2007)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
  $8.895 billion (31 December 2007)

Botswana
  NA

Brazil
  $1.377 trillion (31 December 2007)

Brunei
  $2.38 billion (31 December 2007)

Bulgaria
  $25.18 billion (31 December 2007)

Burkina Faso
  $905.1 million (31 December 2007)

Burma
  $887.7 billion (31 December 2007)

Burundi
  $342 million (31 December 2007)

Cambodia
  $1.131 billion (31 December 2007)

Cameroon
  $1.3 billion (31 December 2007)

Canada
  $2.382 trillion (31 December 2007)

Cape Verde
  $1.049 billion (31 December 2007)

Central African Republic
  $320.2 million (31 December 2007)

Chad
  $82.81 million (31 December 2007)

Chile
  $127.1 billion (31 December 2007)

China
  $4.653 trillion (31 December 2007)

Colombia
  $85.34 billion (31 December 2007)

Comoros
  $45.09 million (31 December 2007)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the
  $559.5 million (31 December 2007)

Congo, Republic of the
  NA

Costa Rica
  $12.91 billion (31 December 2007)

Cote d'Ivoire
  $4.404 billion (31 December 2007)

Croatia
  $45.7 billion (31 December 2007)

Cuba
  NA

Cyprus
  $52.09 billion (31 December 2007)

Czech Republic
  $103.9 billion (31 December 2007)

Denmark
  $684.7 billion (31 December 2007)

Djibouti
  $224.7 million (31 December 2007)

Dominica
  $193.1 million (31 December 2007)

Dominican Republic
  $15.92 billion (31 December 2007)

Ecuador
  $8.926 billion (31 December 2007)

Egypt
  $113.9 billion (31 December 2007)

El Salvador
  $9.729 billion (31 December 2007)

Equatorial Guinea
  NA

Eritrea
  $1.711 billion (31 December 2007)

Estonia
  $21.35 billion (31 December 2007)

Ethiopia
  $6.694 billion (31 December 2006)

European Union
  $20.94 trillion
  note: this figure refers to the Euro area only; it excludes credit
  data for members of the EU outside the Eurozone (31 December 2007)

Fiji
  $1.948 billion (31 December 2007)

Finland
  $240.7 billion (31 December 2007)

France
  $4.105 trillion (31 December 2007)

Gabon
  $359.8 million (31 December 2007)

Gambia, The
  $169.9 million (31 December 2007)

Gaza Strip
  $1.455 billion (31 December 2007)

Georgia
  $3.374 billion (31 December 2007)

Germany
  $5.081 trillion (31 December 2007)

Ghana
  $4.173 billion (31 December 2006)

Greece
  $392.4 billion (31 December 2007)

Grenada
  $575.8 million (31 December 2007)

Guatemala
  $13.96 billion (31 December 2007)

Guinea
  $422.1 million (31 December 2005)

Guinea-Bissau
  $46.44 million (31 December 2007)

Guyana
  $739.3 million (31 December 2007)

Haiti
  $1.537 billion (31 December 2007)

Honduras
  $6.298 billion (31 December 2007)

Hong Kong
  $259.7 billion (31 December 2007)

Hungary
  $109.5 billion (31 December 2007)

Iceland
  $49.67 billion (31 December 2006)

India
  $769.3 billion (31 December 2007)

Indonesia
  $170.2 billion (31 December 2007)

Iran
  $109.7 billion (31 December 2007)

Iraq
  NA (31 December 2007)

Ireland
  $768.9 billion (31 December 2007)

Israel
  $113.4 billion (31 December 2006)

Italy
  $3.084 trillion (31 December 2007)

Jamaica
  $6.609 billion (31 December 2007)

Japan
  $9.653 trillion (31 December 2007)

Jordan
  $19.53 billion (31 December 2007)

Kazakhstan
  $43.75 billion (31 December 2007)

Kenya
  $10.43 billion (31 December 2007)

Korea, South
  $1.061 trillion (31 December 2007)

Kuwait
  $78.25 billion (31 December 2007)

Kyrgyzstan
  $558.3 million (31 December 2007)

Laos
  $285.8 million (31 December 2007)

Latvia
  $27.56 billion (31 December 2007)

Lebanon
  $45.51 billion (31 December 2007)

Lesotho
  NA (31 December 2007)

Liberia
  $1.157 billion (31 December 2007)

Libya
  NA (31 December 2007)

Lithuania
  $25.05 billion (31 December 2007)

Luxembourg
  $357.9 billion (31 December 2007)

Macau
  NA (31 December 2007)

Macedonia
  $2.924 billion (31 December 2007)

Madagascar
  $767.5 million (31 December 2007)

Malawi
  $406.2 million (31 December 2007)

Malaysia
  $220 billion (31 December 2007)

Maldives
  $1.08 billion (31 December 2007)

Mali
  $1.099 billion (31 December 2007)

Malta
  $10.99 billion (31 December 2007)

Mauritania
  NA (31 December 2007)

Mauritius
  $8.582 billion (31 December 2007)

Mexico
  $349.1 billion (31 December 2007)

Micronesia, Federated States of
  NA (31 December 2007)

Moldova
  $1.896 billion (31 December 2007)

Mongolia
  $1.191 billion (31 December 2007)

Montenegro
  $3.083 billion (31 December 2007)

Montserrat
  $5.537 million (31 December 2007)

Morocco
  $71.9 billion (31 December 2007)

Mozambique
  $877.2 million (31 December 2007)

Namibia
  $4.446 billion (31 December 2007)

Nepal
  $5.636 billion (31 December 2007)

Netherlands
  $1.876 trillion (31 December 2007)

Netherlands Antilles
  $2.927 billion (31 December 2007)

New Zealand
  $200.1 billion (31 December 2007)

Nicaragua
  $4.133 billion (31 December 2007)

Niger
  $318.9 million (31 December 2007)

Nigeria
  $16.15 billion (31 December 2007)

Norway
  NA (31 December 2007)

Oman
  $13.88 billion (31 December 2007)

Pakistan
  $65.05 billion (31 December 2007)

Panama
  $17.4 billion (31 December 2007)

Papua New Guinea
  $1.486 billion (31 December 2007)

Paraguay
  $2.457 billion (31 December 2007)

Peru
  $17.88 billion (31 December 2007)

Philippines
  $65.66 billion (31 December 2007)

Poland
  $223.2 billion (31 December 2007)

Portugal
  $451.9 billion (31 December 2007)

Qatar
  $30.52 billion (31 December 2007)

Romania
  $58.76 billion (31 December 2007)

Russia
  $339.1 billion (31 December 2007)

Rwanda
  $209.2 million (31 December 2005)

Saint Kitts and Nevis
  $782.4 million (31 December 2007)

Saint Lucia
  $1.217 billion (31 December 2007)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
  $387.8 million (31 December 2007)

Samoa
  $215.1 million (31 December 2007)

San Marino
  $7.513 billion (31 December 2007)

Sao Tome and Principe
  $31.84 million (31 December 2007)

Saudi Arabia
  $66.94 billion (31 December 2007)

Senegal
  $2.97 billion (31 December 2007)

Serbia
  $13.44 billion (31 December 2007)

Seychelles
  $660.2 million (31 December 2007)

Sierra Leone
  $162.9 million (31 December 2007)

Singapore
  $129.2 billion (31 December 2007)

Slovakia
  $41.76 billion (31 December 2007)

Slovenia
  NA (31 December 2007)

Solomon Islands
  $126.9 million (31 December 2007)

South Africa
  $254.9 billion (31 December 2007)

Spain
  $3.177 trillion (31 December 2007)

Sri Lanka
  $14.82 billion (31 December 2007)

Sudan
  $8.659 billion (31 December 2007)

Suriname
  $651 million (31 December 2007)

Swaziland
  $204.1 million (31 December 2007)

Sweden
  $630.8 billion (31 December 2007)

Switzerland
  $855.4 billion (31 December 2007)

Syria
  $50.92 billion (31 December 2006)

Taiwan
  NA

Tajikistan
  $417.4 million (31 December 2006)

Tanzania
  $2.25 billion (31 December 2007)

Thailand
  $241.8 billion (31 December 2007)

Timor-Leste
  NA (31 December 2007)

Togo
  $590.7 million (31 December 2007)

Tonga
  $163.1 million (31 December 2007)

Trinidad and Tobago
  $3.721 billion (31 December 2007)

Tunisia
  $25.23 billion (31 December 2007)

Turkey
  $358.1 billion (31 December 2007)

Uganda
  $907.3 million (31 December 2007)

Ukraine
  $87.13 billion (31 December 2007)

United Arab Emirates
  $155.4 billion (31 December 2007)

United Kingdom
  $5.278 trillion (31 December 2007)

United States
  $14.15 trillion (31 December 2007)

Uruguay
  $6.396 billion (31 December 2007)

Vanuatu
  $229.5 million (31 December 2007)

Venezuela
  $50.24 billion (31 December 2007)

Vietnam
  $68.63 billion (31 December 2007)

West Bank
  $1.455 billion (31 December 2007)

Yemen
  $2.224 billion (31 December 2007)

Zambia
  $1.968 billion (31 December 2007)

Zimbabwe
  $24.91 billion (31 December 2007)

This page was last updated on 18 December 2008



======================================================================




Rank code: @2001

Rank   Country                           GDP (purchasing power parity)  Date of Information

1      World                             $   65,610,000,000,000  2007 est.
2      European Union                    $   14,430,000,000,000  2007 est.
3      United States                     $   13,780,000,000,000  2007 est.
4      China                             $    7,099,000,000,000  2007 est.
5      Japan                             $    4,272,000,000,000  2007 est.
6      India                             $    2,966,000,000,000  2007 est.
7      Germany                           $    2,807,000,000,000  2007 est.
8      United Kingdom                    $    2,130,000,000,000  2007 est.
9      Russia                            $    2,097,000,000,000  2007 est.
10     France                            $    2,075,000,000,000  2007 est.
11     Brazil                            $    1,849,000,000,000  2007 est.
12     Italy                             $    1,800,000,000,000  2007 est.
13     Spain                             $    1,361,000,000,000  2007 est.
14     Mexico                            $    1,353,000,000,000  2007 est.
15     Canada                            $    1,271,000,000,000  2007 est.
16     Korea, South                      $    1,206,000,000,000  2007 est.
17     Turkey                            $     853,900,000,000  2007 est.
18     Indonesia                         $     843,700,000,000  2007 est.
19     Australia                         $     773,000,000,000  2007 est.
20     Iran                              $     762,900,000,000  2007 est.
21     Taiwan                            $     698,600,000,000  2007 est.
22     Netherlands                       $     645,500,000,000  2007 est.
23     Poland                            $     623,100,000,000  2007 est.
24     Saudi Arabia                      $     546,000,000,000  2007 est.
25     Argentina                         $     526,400,000,000  2007 est.
26     Thailand                          $     521,500,000,000  2007 est.
27     South Africa                      $     467,800,000,000  2007 est.
28     Pakistan                          $     411,900,000,000  2007 est.
29     Egypt                             $     405,400,000,000  2007 est.
30     Belgium                           $     376,500,000,000  2007 est.
31     Malaysia                          $     361,200,000,000  2007 est.
32     Sweden                            $     338,500,000,000  2007 est.
33     Venezuela                         $     334,300,000,000  2007 est.
34     Colombia                          $     327,700,000,000  2007 est.
35     Greece                            $     327,600,000,000  2007 est.
36     Ukraine                           $     324,800,000,000  2007 est.
37     Austria                           $     322,000,000,000  2007 est.
38     Switzerland                       $     303,200,000,000  2007 est.
39     Philippines                       $     300,100,000,000  2007 est.
40     Nigeria                           $     296,100,000,000  2007 est.
41     Hong Kong                         $     293,300,000,000  2007 est.
42     Czech Republic                    $     251,000,000,000  2007 est.
43     Romania                           $     247,100,000,000  2007 est.
44     Norway                            $     246,600,000,000  2007 est.
45     Chile                             $     232,800,000,000  2007 est.
46     Portugal                          $     232,300,000,000  2007 est.
47     Singapore                         $     227,100,000,000  2007 est.
48     Algeria                           $     222,300,000,000  2007 est.
49     Vietnam                           $     221,100,000,000  2007 est.
50     Peru                              $     219,600,000,000  2007 est.
51     Bangladesh                        $     208,300,000,000  2007 est.
52     Denmark                           $     203,300,000,000  2007 est.
53     Hungary                           $     191,700,000,000  2007 est.
54     Ireland                           $     191,600,000,000  2007 est.
55     Finland                           $     188,400,000,000  2007 est.
56     Israel                            $     185,800,000,000  2007 est.
57     Kazakhstan                        $     168,200,000,000  2007 est.
58     United Arab Emirates              $     164,400,000,000  2007 est.
59     Kuwait                            $     140,000,000,000  2007 est.
60     Cuba                              $     125,500,000,000  2007 est.
61     Morocco                           $     125,000,000,000  2007 est.
62     New Zealand                       $     112,400,000,000  2007 est.
63     Slovakia                          $     110,200,000,000  2007 est.
64     Belarus                           $     103,500,000,000  2007 est.
65     Iraq                              $     102,400,000,000  2007 est.
66     Ecuador                           $      98,710,000,000  2007 est.
67     Angola                            $      95,460,000,000  2007 est.
68     Burma                             $      91,130,000,000  2007 est.
69     Syria                             $      90,370,000,000  2007 est.
70     Bulgaria                          $      86,710,000,000  2007 est.
71     Sri Lanka                         $      82,020,000,000  2007 est.
72     Sudan                             $      80,980,000,000  2007 est.
73     Serbia                            $      77,280,000,000  2007 est.
74     Tunisia                           $      76,070,000,000  2007 est.
75     Libya                             $      74,720,000,000  2007 est.
76     Puerto Rico                       $      72,610,000,000  2007 est.
77     Qatar                             $      71,420,000,000  2007 est.
78     Croatia                           $      69,590,000,000  2007 est.
79     Guatemala                         $      64,760,000,000  2007 est.
80     Azerbaijan                        $      64,660,000,000  2007 est.
81     Uzbekistan                        $      64,400,000,000  2007 est.
82     Dominican Republic                $      61,670,000,000  2007 est.
83     Kenya                             $      61,220,000,000  2007 est.
84     Oman                              $      60,890,000,000  2007 est.
85     Lithuania                         $      59,980,000,000  2007 est.
86     Yemen                             $      56,240,000,000  2007 est.
87     Slovenia                          $      56,190,000,000  2007 est.
88     Ethiopia                          $      56,050,000,000  2007 est.
89     Tanzania                          $      51,070,000,000  2007 est.
90     Costa Rica                        $      45,770,000,000  2007 est.
91     El Salvador                       $      41,630,000,000  2007 est.
92     Lebanon                           $      40,440,000,000  2007 est.
93     Cameroon                          $      40,240,000,000  2007 est.
94     Latvia                            $      40,050,000,000  2007 est.
95     Korea, North                      $      40,000,000,000  2007 est.
96     Bolivia                           $      39,750,000,000  2007 est.
97     Luxembourg                        $      38,140,000,000  2007 est.
98     Uruguay                           $      37,500,000,000  2007 est.
99     Afghanistan                       $      35,000,000,000  2007 est.
100    Panama                            $      34,810,000,000  2007 est.
101    Cote d'Ivoire                     $      32,850,000,000  2007 est.
102    Honduras                          $      32,260,000,000  2007 est.
103    Ghana                             $      31,130,000,000  2007 est.
104    Nepal                             $      29,290,000,000  2007 est.
105    Uganda                            $      29,130,000,000  2007 est.
106    Estonia                           $      28,690,000,000  2007 est.
107    Jordan                            $      28,450,000,000  2007 est.
108    Bosnia and Herzegovina            $      27,700,000,000  2007 est.
109    Turkmenistan                      $      26,920,000,000  2007 est.
110    Trinidad and Tobago               $      26,790,000,000  2007 est.
111    Paraguay                          $      26,700,000,000  2007 est.
112    Cambodia                          $      26,190,000,000  2007 est.
113    Botswana                          $      26,040,000,000  2007 est.
114    Bahrain                           $      24,010,000,000  2007 est.
115    Cyprus                            $      21,400,000,000  2007 est.
116    Senegal                           $      21,020,000,000  2007 est.
117    Albania                           $      20,870,000,000  2007 est.
118    Georgia                           $      20,600,000,000  2007 est.
119    Jamaica                           $      20,480,000,000  2007 est.
120    Gabon                             $      20,440,000,000  2007 est.
121    Brunei                            $      19,640,000,000  2007 est.
122    Congo, Democratic Republic of the  $      19,030,000,000  2007 est.
123    Madagascar                        $      18,440,000,000  2007 est.
124    Mozambique                        $      17,640,000,000  2007 est.
125    Burkina Faso                      $      17,410,000,000  2007 est.
126    Macedonia                         $      17,350,000,000  2007 est.
127    Armenia                           $      17,170,000,000  2007 est.
128    Nicaragua                         $      16,170,000,000  2007 est.
129    Zambia                            $      16,100,000,000  2007 est.
130    Equatorial Guinea                 $      15,540,000,000  2007 est.
131    Chad                              $      15,260,000,000  2007 est.
132    Mauritius                         $      14,270,000,000  2007 est.
133    Mali                              $      13,630,000,000  2007 est.
134    Congo, Republic of the            $      12,860,000,000  2007 est.
135    Laos                              $      12,800,000,000  2007 est.
136    Macau                             $      12,500,000,000  2006
137    Iceland                           $      12,190,000,000  2007 est.
138    Papua New Guinea                  $      12,050,000,000  2007 est.
139    Benin                             $      12,000,000,000  2007 est.
140    Tajikistan                        $      11,960,000,000  2007 est.
141    Haiti                             $      11,380,000,000  2007 est.
142    Guinea                            $      10,960,000,000  2007 est.
143    Namibia                           $      10,690,000,000  2007 est.
144    Malawi                            $      10,590,000,000  2007 est.
145    Kyrgyzstan                        $      10,550,000,000  2007 est.
146    Moldova                           $       9,756,000,000  2007 est.
147    Malta                             $       9,400,000,000  2007 est.
148    Niger                             $       8,859,000,000  2007 est.
149    Bahamas, The                      $       8,553,000,000  2007 est.
150    Mongolia                          $       8,542,000,000  2007 est.
151    Rwanda                            $       8,057,000,000  2007 est.
152    Mauritania                        $       5,974,000,000  2007 est.
153    Montenegro                        $       5,918,000,000  2007 est.
154    Somalia                           $       5,387,000,000  2007 est.
155    Swaziland                         $       5,364,000,000  2007 est.
156    Barbados                          $       5,310,000,000  2007 est.
157    Jersey                            $       5,100,000,000  2005 est.
158    Fiji                              $       5,079,000,000  2007 est.
159    Togo                              $       5,042,000,000  2007 est.
160    Gaza Strip                        $       5,034,000,000  2006 est.
161    West Bank                         $       5,034,000,000  2006 est.
162    French Polynesia                  $       4,580,000,000  2003 est.
163    Bermuda                           $       4,500,000,000  2004 est.
164    Kosovo                            $       4,000,000,000  2007 est.
165    Sierra Leone                      $       3,991,000,000  2007 est.
166    Suriname                          $       3,846,000,000  2007 est.
167    Eritrea                           $       3,619,000,000  2007 est.
168    Bhutan                            $       3,359,000,000  2007 est.
169    New Caledonia                     $       3,158,000,000  2003 est.
170    Lesotho                           $       3,063,000,000  2007 est.
171    Central African Republic          $       3,007,000,000  2007 est.
172    Burundi                           $       2,907,000,000  2007 est.
173    Guyana                            $       2,819,000,000  2007 est.
174    Netherlands Antilles              $       2,800,000,000  2004 est.
175    Andorra                           $       2,770,000,000  2005
176    Guernsey                          $       2,742,000,000  2005
177    Isle of Man                       $       2,719,000,000  2005 est.
178    Timor-Leste                       $       2,608,000,000  2007 est.
179    Guam                              $       2,500,000,000  2005 est.
180    Belize                            $       2,444,000,000  2007 est.
181    Zimbabwe                          $       2,342,000,000  2007 est.
182    Aruba                             $       2,258,000,000  2005 est.
183    Gambia, The                       $       2,061,000,000  2007 est.
184    Cayman Islands                    $       1,939,000,000  2004 est.
185    Saint Lucia                       $       1,794,000,000  2007 est.
186    Liechtenstein                     $       1,786,000,000  2001 est.
187    Djibouti                          $       1,738,000,000  2007 est.
188    Cape Verde                        $       1,603,000,000  2007 est.
189    Maldives                          $       1,588,000,000  2007 est.
190    Virgin Islands                    $       1,577,000,000  2004 est.
191    Antigua and Barbuda               $       1,526,000,000  2007 est.
192    Liberia                           $       1,525,000,000  2007 est.
193    Seychelles                        $       1,378,000,000  2007 est.
194    Comoros                           $       1,262,000,000  2007 est.
195    Grenada                           $       1,108,000,000  2007 est.
196    Greenland                         $       1,100,000,000  2001 est.
197    Gibraltar                         $       1,066,000,000  2005 est.
198    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines  $       1,042,000,000  2007 est.
199    Samoa                             $       1,029,000,000  2007 est.
200    Faroe Islands                     $       1,000,000,000  2001 est.
201    Monaco                            $        976,300,000  2006 est.
202    Mayotte                           $        953,600,000  2005 est.
203    Solomon Islands                   $        948,000,000  2007 est.
204    Northern Mariana Islands          $        900,000,000  2000 est.
205    Vanuatu                           $        897,000,000  2007 est.
206    British Virgin Islands            $        853,400,000  2004 est.
207    San Marino                        $        850,000,000  2004 est.
208    Guinea-Bissau                     $        826,400,000  2007 est.
209    Saint Kitts and Nevis             $        721,000,000  2007 est.
210    Dominica                          $        648,000,000  2007 est.
211    Tonga                             $        526,000,000  2007 est.
212    American Samoa                    $        510,100,000  2003 est.
213    Kiribati                          $        348,000,000  2007 est.
214    Micronesia, Federated States of   $        277,000,000  2002 est.
215    Sao Tome and Principe             $        256,000,000  2007 est.
216    Turks and Caicos Islands          $        216,000,000  2002 est.
217    Cook Islands                      $        183,200,000  2005 est.
218    Palau                             $        124,500,000  2004 est.
219    Marshall Islands                  $        115,000,000  2001 est.
220    Anguilla                          $        108,900,000  2004 est.
221    Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)  $         75,000,000  2002 est.
222    Nauru                             $         60,000,000  2005 est.
223    Wallis and Futuna                 $         60,000,000  2004 est.
224    Saint Pierre and Miquelon         $         48,300,000  2003 est.
225    Montserrat                        $         29,000,000  2002 est.
226    Saint Helena                      $         18,000,000  1998 est.
227    Tuvalu                            $         14,940,000  2002 est.
228    Niue                              $          7,600,000  2000 est.
229    Tokelau                           $          1,500,000  1993 est.

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2002

Rank   Country                           Population growth rate(%)  Date of Information

1      Maldives                                     5.57     2008 est.
2      United Arab Emirates                         3.83     2008 est.
3      Liberia                                      3.66     2008 est.
4      Uganda                                       3.60     2008 est.
5      Kuwait                                       3.59     2008 est.
6      Mayotte                                      3.47     2008 est.
7      Yemen                                        3.46     2008 est.
8      Burundi                                      3.44     2008 est.
9      Gaza Strip                                   3.42     2008 est.
10     Congo, Democratic Republic of the             3.24    2008 est.
11     Ethiopia                                     3.21     2008 est.
12     Oman                                         3.19     2008 est.
13     Macau                                        3.15     2008 est.
14     Sao Tome and Principe                        3.12     2008 est.
15     Burkina Faso                                 3.11     2008 est.
16     Benin                                        3.01     2008 est.
17     Madagascar                                   3.01     2008 est.
18     Niger                                        2.88     2008 est.
19     Western Sahara                               2.87     2008 est.
20     Mauritania                                   2.85     2008 est.
21     Somalia                                      2.82     2008 est.
22     Comoros                                      2.80     2008 est.
23     Rwanda                                       2.78     2008 est.
24     Kenya                                        2.76     2008 est.
25     Equatorial Guinea                            2.73     2008 est.
26     Mali                                         2.73     2008 est.
27     Gambia, The                                  2.72     2008 est.
28     Togo                                         2.72     2008 est.
29     Congo, Republic of the                       2.70     2008 est.
30     Turks and Caicos Islands                     2.64     2008 est.
31     Eritrea                                      2.63     2008 est.
32     Afghanistan                                  2.63     2008 est.
33     Senegal                                      2.58     2008 est.
34     Iraq                                         2.56     2008 est.
35     Haiti                                        2.49     2008 est.
36     Guinea                                       2.49     2008 est.
37     Solomon Islands                              2.47     2008 est.
38     Cayman Islands                               2.45     2008 est.
39     Malawi                                       2.39     2008 est.
40     Paraguay                                     2.39     2008 est.
41     Northern Mariana Islands                     2.38     2008 est.
42     Laos                                         2.34     2008 est.
43     Jordan                                       2.34     2008 est.
44     Anguilla                                     2.33     2008 est.
45     Sierra Leone                                 2.28     2008 est.
46     Kiribati                                     2.24     2008 est.
47     West Bank                                    2.23     2008 est.
48     Cameroon                                     2.22     2008 est.
49     Libya                                        2.22     2008 est.
50     Belize                                       2.21     2008 est.
51     Chad                                         2.20     2008 est.
52     Syria                                        2.19     2008 est.
53     Cote d'Ivoire                                2.16     2008 est.
54     Marshall Islands                             2.14     2008 est.
55     Angola                                       2.14     2008 est.
56     Sudan                                        2.13     2008 est.
57     Papua New Guinea                             2.12     2008 est.
58     Guatemala                                    2.11     2008 est.
59     Nepal                                        2.10     2008 est.
60     Tanzania                                     2.07     2008 est.
61     Timor-Leste                                  2.05     2008 est.
62     Guinea-Bissau                                2.04     2008 est.
63     Nigeria                                      2.03     2008 est.
64     Honduras                                     2.02     2008 est.
65     Bangladesh                                   2.02     2008 est.
66     Pakistan                                     2.00     2008 est.
67     Philippines                                  1.99     2008 est.
68     Gabon                                        1.95     2008 est.
69     Saudi Arabia                                 1.95     2008 est.
70     Djibouti                                     1.95     2008 est.
71     Ghana                                        1.93     2008 est.
72     Andorra                                      1.90     2008 est.
73     Tajikistan                                   1.89     2008 est.
74     British Virgin Islands                       1.88     2008 est.
75     Nicaragua                                    1.83     2008 est.
76     Mozambique                                   1.79     2008 est.
77     Brunei                                       1.79     2008 est.
78     Nauru                                        1.77     2008 est.
79     Cambodia                                     1.75     2008 est.
80     Malaysia                                     1.74     2008 est.
81     Israel                                       1.71     2008 est.
82     Egypt                                        1.68     2008 est.
83     El Salvador                                  1.68     2008 est.
84     Tonga                                        1.67     2008 est.
85     Zambia                                       1.65     2008 est.
86     Turkmenistan                                 1.60     2008 est.
87     India                                        1.58     2008 est.
88     Tuvalu                                       1.58     2008 est.
89     Panama                                       1.54     2008 est.
90     Central African Republic                     1.51     2008 est.
91     Morocco                                      1.51     2008 est.
92     Aruba                                        1.50     2008 est.
93     Venezuela                                    1.50     2008 est.
94     Dominican Republic                           1.50     2008 est.
95     Mongolia                                     1.49     2008 est.
96     Botswana                                     1.43     2008 est.
97     Vanuatu                                      1.43     2008 est.
98     French Polynesia                             1.43     2008 est.
99     Colombia                                     1.41     2008 est.
100    Costa Rica                                   1.39     2008 est.
101    Fiji                                         1.39     2008 est.
102    Bolivia                                      1.38     2008 est.
103    Kyrgyzstan                                   1.38     2008 est.
104    Guam                                         1.37     2008 est.
105    Bahrain                                      1.34     2008 est.
106    Samoa                                        1.32     2008 est.
107    Antigua and Barbuda                          1.31     2008 est.
108    Bhutan                                       1.30     2008 est.
109    Peru                                         1.26     2008 est.
110    American Samoa                               1.24     2008 est.
111    Brazil                                       1.23     2008 est.
112    Australia                                    1.22     2008 est.
113    Algeria                                      1.21     2008 est.
114    Luxembourg                                   1.19     2008 est.
115    World                                        1.19     2008 est.
116    San Marino                                   1.18     2008 est.
117    Indonesia                                    1.18     2008 est.
118    New Caledonia                                1.18     2008 est.
119    Palau                                        1.16     2008 est.
120    Lebanon                                      1.15     2008 est.
121    Mexico                                       1.14     2008 est.
122    Singapore                                    1.14     2008 est.
123    Ireland                                      1.13     2008 est.
124    Suriname                                     1.10     2008 est.
125    Qatar                                        1.09     2008 est.
126    Argentina                                    1.07     2008 est.
127    Turkey                                       1.01     2008 est.
128    Vietnam                                      0.99     2008 est.
129    Tunisia                                      0.99     2008 est.
130    New Zealand                                  0.97     2008 est.
131    Uzbekistan                                   0.97     2008 est.
132    Namibia                                      0.95     2008 est.
133    Sri Lanka                                    0.94     2008 est.
134    Ecuador                                      0.94     2008 est.
135    Chile                                        0.91     2008 est.
136    United States                                0.88     2008 est.
137    Canada                                       0.83     2008 est.
138    South Africa                                 0.83     2008 est.
139    Burma                                        0.80     2008 est.
140    Mauritius                                    0.80     2008 est.
141    Iran                                         0.79     2008 est.
142    Iceland                                      0.78     2008 est.
143    Jamaica                                      0.78     2008 est.
144    Netherlands Antilles                         0.75     2008 est.
145    Korea, North                                 0.73     2008 est.
146    Azerbaijan                                   0.72     2008 est.
147    Saint Kitts and Nevis                        0.72     2008 est.
148    Liechtenstein                                0.71     2008 est.
149    Bosnia and Herzegovina                       0.67     2008 est.
150    Thailand                                     0.64     2008 est.
151    China                                        0.63     2008 est.
152    Cape Verde                                   0.60     2008 est.
153    France                                       0.57     2008 est.
154    Bahamas, The                                 0.57     2008 est.
155    Bermuda                                      0.55     2008 est.
156    Albania                                      0.54     2008 est.
157    Hong Kong                                    0.53     2008 est.
158    Cyprus                                       0.52     2008 est.
159    Isle of Man                                  0.51     2008 est.
160    Saint Helena                                 0.49     2008 est.
161    Uruguay                                      0.49     2008 est.
162    Netherlands                                  0.44     2008 est.
163    Saint Lucia                                  0.44     2008 est.
164    Seychelles                                   0.43     2008 est.
165    Malta                                        0.41     2008 est.
166    Grenada                                      0.41     2008 est.
167    Faroe Islands                                0.38     2008 est.
168    Monaco                                       0.38     2008 est.
169    Kazakhstan                                   0.37     2008 est.
170    Puerto Rico                                  0.37     2008 est.
171    Barbados                                     0.36     2008 est.
172    Norway                                       0.35     2008 est.
173    Switzerland                                  0.33     2008 est.
174    Montserrat                                   0.32     2008 est.
175    Portugal                                     0.31     2008 est.
176    Denmark                                      0.30     2008 est.
177    United Kingdom                               0.28     2008 est.
178    Korea, South                                 0.27     2008 est.
179    Macedonia                                    0.26     2008 est.
180    Cuba                                         0.25     2008 est.
181    Taiwan                                       0.24     2008 est.
182    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines             0.23     2008 est.
183    Guernsey                                     0.23     2008 est.
184    Jersey                                       0.22     2008 est.
185    Guyana                                       0.21     2008 est.
186    Dominica                                     0.20     2008 est.
187    Sweden                                       0.16     2008 est.
188    Greece                                       0.15     2008 est.
189    Slovakia                                     0.14     2008 est.
190    Lesotho                                      0.13     2008 est.
191    Gibraltar                                    0.13     2008 est.
192    Saint Pierre and Miquelon                    0.11     2008 est.
193    Finland                                      0.11     2008 est.
194    European Union                               0.11     2008 est.
195    Belgium                                      0.11     2008 est.
196    Spain                                        0.10     2008 est.
197    Austria                                      0.06     2008 est.
198    Greenland                                    0.06     2008 est.
199    Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)             0.01    2008 est.
200    Norfolk Island                               0.01     2008 est.
201    Holy See (Vatican City)                      0.00     2008 est.
202    Virgin Islands                               0.00     2008 est.
203    Cocos (Keeling) Islands                      0.00     2008 est.
204    Christmas Island                             0.00     2008 est.
205    Pitcairn Islands                             0.00     2008 est.
206    Tokelau                                     -0.01     2008 est.
207    Italy                                       -0.02     2008 est.
208    Svalbard                                    -0.02     2008 est.
209    Niue                                        -0.03     2008 est.
210    Croatia                                     -0.04     2008 est.
211    Germany                                     -0.04     2008 est.
212    Poland                                      -0.05     2008 est.
213    Armenia                                     -0.08     2008 est.
214    Czech Republic                              -0.08     2008 est.
215    Slovenia                                    -0.09     2008 est.
216    Moldova                                     -0.09     2008 est.
217    Romania                                     -0.14     2008 est.
218    Japan                                       -0.14     2008 est.
219    Micronesia, Federated States of             -0.19     2008 est.
220    Hungary                                     -0.25     2008 est.
221    Lithuania                                   -0.28     2008 est.
222    Georgia                                     -0.33     2008 est.
223    Belarus                                     -0.39     2008 est.
224    Swaziland                                   -0.41     2008 est.
225    Russia                                      -0.47     2008 est.
226    Latvia                                      -0.63     2008 est.
227    Estonia                                     -0.63     2008 est.
228    Ukraine                                     -0.65     2008 est.
229    Zimbabwe                                    -0.79     2008 est.
230    Bulgaria                                    -0.81     2008 est.
231    Trinidad and Tobago                         -0.89     2008 est.
232    Montenegro                                  -0.93     2008 est.

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2003

Rank   Country                           GDP - real growth rate(%)  Date of Information

1      Azerbaijan                                  23.40     2007 est.
2      Bhutan                                      22.40     2007 est.
3      Timor-Leste                                 19.80     2007 est.
4      Angola                                      16.70     2007 est.
5      Macau                                       16.60     2006
6      Armenia                                     13.70     2007 est.
7      Equatorial Guinea                           12.40     2007 est.
8      Georgia                                     12.00     2007 est.
9      China                                       11.90     2007 est.
10     Afghanistan                                 11.50     2007 est.
11     Turkmenistan                                11.50     2007 est.
12     Panama                                      11.20     2007 est.
13     Ethiopia                                    11.10     2007 est.
14     Liechtenstein                               11.00     1999 est.
15     Slovakia                                    10.40     2007 est.
16     Latvia                                      10.30     2007 est.
17     Anguilla                                    10.20     2004 est.
18     Sudan                                       10.20     2007 est.
19     Cambodia                                    10.10     2007 est.
20     Mongolia                                     9.90     2007 est.
21     Uzbekistan                                   9.50     2007 est.
22     Liberia                                      9.40     2007 est.
23     India                                        9.00     2007 est.
24     Peru                                         9.00     2007 est.
25     Lithuania                                    8.80     2007 est.
26     Argentina                                    8.70     2007 est.
27     Dominican Republic                           8.50     2007 est.
28     Vietnam                                      8.50     2007 est.
29     Kazakhstan                                   8.50     2007 est.
30     Qatar                                        8.40     2007 est.
31     Venezuela                                    8.40     2007 est.
32     Belarus                                      8.20     2007 est.
33     Kyrgyzstan                                   8.20     2007 est.
34     Colombia                                     8.20     2007 est.
35     Russia                                       8.10     2007 est.
36     Malawi                                       8.00     2007 est.
37     Tajikistan                                   7.80     2007 est.
38     Singapore                                    7.70     2007 est.
39     Ukraine                                      7.70     2007 est.
40     United Arab Emirates                         7.50     2007 est.
41     Montenegro                                   7.50     2007 est.
42     Laos                                         7.50     2007 est.
43     Uruguay                                      7.40     2007 est.
44     Mozambique                                   7.30     2007 est.
45     Philippines                                  7.30     2007 est.
46     Tanzania                                     7.30     2007 est.
47     Serbia                                       7.30     2007 est.
48     Egypt                                        7.10     2007 est.
49     Estonia                                      7.10     2007 est.
50     Congo, Democratic Republic of the             7.00    2007 est.
51     Gibraltar                                    7.00     2005 est.
52     Sierra Leone                                 7.00     2007 est.
53     Kenya                                        7.00     2007 est.
54     Gambia, The                                  7.00     2007 est.
55     Cape Verde                                   6.90     2007 est.
56     Sri Lanka                                    6.80     2007 est.
57     Costa Rica                                   6.80     2007 est.
58     Bahrain                                      6.70     2007 est.
59     Czech Republic                               6.60     2007 est.
60     Paraguay                                     6.60     2007 est.
61     Saint Vincent and the Grenadines             6.60     2007 est.
62     Poland                                       6.60     2007 est.
63     Maldives                                     6.60     2007 est.
64     Cuba                                         6.50     2007 est.
65     Hong Kong                                    6.40     2007 est.
66     Nigeria                                      6.40     2007 est.
67     Bangladesh                                   6.30     2007 est.
68     Tunisia                                      6.30     2007 est.
69     Honduras                                     6.30     2007 est.
70     Madagascar                                   6.30     2007 est.
71     Indonesia                                    6.30     2007 est.
72     Malaysia                                     6.30     2007 est.
73     Bulgaria                                     6.20     2007 est.
74     Gabon                                        6.20     2007 est.
75     Niue                                         6.20     2003 est.
76     Iran                                         6.20     2007 est.
77     Antigua and Barbuda                          6.10     2007 est.
78     Slovenia                                     6.10     2007 est.
79     Albania                                      6.00     2007 est.
80     Ireland                                      6.00     2007 est.
81     Papua New Guinea                             6.00     2007 est.
82     Rwanda                                       6.00     2007 est.
83     Romania                                      6.00     2007 est.
84     Jordan                                       6.00     2007 est.
85     Bosnia and Herzegovina                       6.00     2007 est.
86     Zambia                                       6.00     2007 est.
87     Samoa                                        6.00     2007 est.
88     Uganda                                       6.00     2007 est.
89     Sao Tome and Principe                        6.00     2007 est.
90     Iraq                                         5.90     2007 est.
91     Libya                                        5.80     2007 est.
92     Guatemala                                    5.70     2007 est.
93     Croatia                                      5.70     2007 est.
94     Taiwan                                       5.70     2007 est.
95     Oman                                         5.60     2007 est.
96     Ghana                                        5.50     2007 est.
97     Trinidad and Tobago                          5.50     2007 est.
98     Palau                                        5.50     2005 est.
99     Solomon Islands                              5.40     2007 est.
100    Mauritius                                    5.40     2007 est.
101    Brazil                                       5.40     2007 est.
102    Guyana                                       5.30     2007 est.
103    Seychelles                                   5.30     2007 est.
104    Pakistan                                     5.30     2007 est.
105    Israel                                       5.30     2007 est.
106    Djibouti                                     5.20     2007 est.
107    Isle of Man                                  5.20     2005
108    World                                        5.20     2007 est.
109    Chile                                        5.10     2007 est.
110    French Polynesia                             5.10     2002
111    Macedonia                                    5.10     2007 est.
112    South Africa                                 5.10     2007 est.
113    Suriname                                     5.10     2007 est.
114    Korea, South                                 5.00     2007 est.
115    Vanuatu                                      5.00     2007 est.
116    Turks and Caicos Islands                     4.90     2000 est.
117    Botswana                                     4.80     2007 est.
118    Thailand                                     4.80     2007 est.
119    Lesotho                                      4.80     2007 est.
120    El Salvador                                  4.70     2007 est.
121    Kuwait                                       4.70     2007 est.
122    Bermuda                                      4.60     2004 est.
123    Bolivia                                      4.60     2007 est.
124    Senegal                                      4.60     2007 est.
125    San Marino                                   4.60     2004 est.
126    Algeria                                      4.50     2007 est.
127    Finland                                      4.50     2007 est.
128    Benin                                        4.50     2007 est.
129    Turkey                                       4.50     2007 est.
130    Luxembourg                                   4.50     2007 est.
131    Cyprus                                       4.40     2007 est.
132    Australia                                    4.30     2007 est.
133    Barbados                                     4.30     2007 est.
134    Syria                                        4.30     2007 est.
135    Burkina Faso                                 4.20     2007 est.
136    Central African Republic                     4.00     2007 est.
137    Greece                                       4.00     2007 est.
138    Burma                                        3.80     2007 est.
139    Spain                                        3.80     2007 est.
140    Iceland                                      3.80     2007 est.
141    Malta                                        3.80     2007 est.
142    Nicaragua                                    3.80     2007 est.
143    Norway                                       3.70     2007 est.
144    Burundi                                      3.60     2007 est.
145    Lebanon                                      3.60     2007 est.
146    Namibia                                      3.60     2007 est.
147    Andorra                                      3.50     2005 est.
148    Saudi Arabia                                 3.50     2007 est.
149    Netherlands                                  3.50     2007 est.
150    Marshall Islands                             3.50     2005 est.
151    Saint Kitts and Nevis                        3.30     2007 est.
152    Haiti                                        3.20     2007 est.
153    Saint Lucia                                  3.20     2007 est.
154    Nepal                                        3.20     2007 est.
155    Niger                                        3.20     2007 est.
156    Mexico                                       3.20     2007 est.
157    Austria                                      3.10     2007 est.
158    Grenada                                      3.10     2007 est.
159    New Zealand                                  3.10     2007 est.
160    Switzerland                                  3.10     2007 est.
161    United Kingdom                               3.10     2007 est.
162    American Samoa                               3.00     2003 est.
163    European Union                               3.00     2007 est.
164    Moldova                                      3.00     2007 est.
165    Guernsey                                     3.00     2005 est.
166    Tuvalu                                       3.00     2006 est.
167    Belgium                                      2.80     2007 est.
168    Mali                                         2.80     2007 est.
169    Yemen                                        2.80     2007 est.
170    Bahamas, The                                 2.80     2007 est.
171    Canada                                       2.70     2007 est.
172    Sweden                                       2.70     2007 est.
173    Guinea-Bissau                                2.70     2007 est.
174    Cameroon                                     2.70     2007 est.
175    Kosovo                                       2.60     2007 est.
176    Somalia                                      2.60     2007 est.
177    Germany                                      2.50     2007 est.
178    Aruba                                        2.40     2005 est.
179    Faroe Islands                                2.40     2005 est.
180    Swaziland                                    2.30     2007 est.
181    Belize                                       2.20     2007 est.
182    Morocco                                      2.20     2007 est.
183    France                                       2.10     2007 est.
184    Togo                                         2.10     2007 est.
185    Ecuador                                      2.00     2007 est.
186    Greenland                                    2.00     2005 est.
187    Virgin Islands                               2.00     2002 est.
188    United States                                2.00     2007 est.
189    Kiribati                                     2.00     2007 est.
190    Japan                                        2.00     2007 est.
191    Portugal                                     1.80     2007 est.
192    Denmark                                      1.70     2007 est.
193    Cote d'Ivoire                                1.60     2007 est.
194    Guinea                                       1.50     2007 est.
195    Italy                                        1.40     2007 est.
196    Chad                                         1.30     2007 est.
197    Eritrea                                      1.30     2007 est.
198    Hungary                                      1.30     2007 est.
199    Jamaica                                      1.20     2007 est.
200    Mauritania                                   1.00     2007 est.
201    British Virgin Islands                       1.00     2002 est.
202    Netherlands Antilles                         1.00     2004 est.
203    Cayman Islands                               0.90     2004 est.
204    Monaco                                       0.90     2000 est.
205    Dominica                                     0.90     2007 est.
206    Brunei                                       0.40     2007 est.
207    Micronesia, Federated States of              0.30     2005 est.
208    Cook Islands                                 0.10     2005 est.
209    Comoros                                     -1.00     2007 est.
210    Montserrat                                  -1.00     2002 est.
211    Korea, North                                -1.10     2007 est.
212    Puerto Rico                                 -1.20     2007 est.
213    Congo, Republic of the                      -1.60     2007 est.
214    Tonga                                       -3.50     2007 est.
215    Fiji                                        -4.40     2007 est.
216    Zimbabwe                                    -5.50     2007 est.
217    Gaza Strip                                  -8.00     2006 est.
218    West Bank                                   -8.00     2006 est.

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2004

Rank   Country                           GDP - per capita (PPP)  Date of Information

1      Qatar                             $            87,600  2007 est.
2      Luxembourg                        $            79,400  2007 est.
3      Bermuda                           $            69,900  2004 est.
4      Jersey                            $            57,000  2005 est.
5      Kuwait                            $            55,900  2007 est.
6      Norway                            $            53,300  2007 est.
7      Brunei                            $            51,000  2007 est.
8      Singapore                         $            49,900  2007 est.
9      Ireland                           $            46,600  2007 est.
10     United States                     $            45,800  2007 est.
11     Guernsey                          $            44,600  2005
12     Cayman Islands                    $            43,800  2004 est.
13     Hong Kong                         $            42,000  2007 est.
14     Iceland                           $            40,400  2007 est.
15     Switzerland                       $            40,100  2007 est.
16     Austria                           $            39,300  2007 est.
17     Netherlands                       $            39,000  2007 est.
18     Andorra                           $            38,800  2005
19     Canada                            $            38,600  2007 est.
20     British Virgin Islands            $            38,500  2004 est.
21     Gibraltar                         $            38,200  2005 est.
22     Sweden                            $            37,500  2007 est.
23     Australia                         $            37,300  2007 est.
24     Denmark                           $            37,200  2007 est.
25     United Arab Emirates              $            37,000  2007 est.
26     Belgium                           $            36,200  2007 est.
27     Finland                           $            36,000  2007 est.
28     Isle of Man                       $            35,000  2005 est.
29     United Kingdom                    $            35,000  2007 est.
30     Germany                           $            34,100  2007 est.
31     San Marino                        $            34,100  2004 est.
32     Bahrain                           $            33,900  2007 est.
33     Spain                             $            33,600  2007 est.
34     Japan                             $            33,500  2007 est.
35     European Union                    $            32,700  2007 est.
36     France                            $            32,600  2007 est.
37     Faroe Islands                     $            31,000  2001 est.
38     Italy                             $            30,900  2007 est.
39     Greece                            $            30,600  2007 est.
40     Taiwan                            $            30,100  2007 est.
41     Monaco                            $            30,000  2006 est.
42     Macau                             $            28,400  2006
43     Equatorial Guinea                 $            28,200  2007 est.
44     Bahamas, The                      $            28,000  2007 est.
45     Slovenia                          $            28,000  2007 est.
46     New Zealand                       $            27,200  2007 est.
47     Cyprus                            $            27,100  2007 est.
48     Israel                            $            26,600  2007 est.
49     Trinidad and Tobago               $            25,400  2007 est.
50     Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)  $            25,000  2002 est.
51     Liechtenstein                     $            25,000  1999 est.
52     Korea, South                      $            25,000  2007 est.
53     Czech Republic                    $            24,500  2007 est.
54     Malta                             $            23,400  2007 est.
55     Aruba                             $            21,800  2004 est.
56     Portugal                          $            21,800  2007 est.
57     Estonia                           $            21,800  2007 est.
58     Slovakia                          $            20,200  2007 est.
59     Greenland                         $            20,000  2001 est.
60     Saudi Arabia                      $            19,800  2007 est.
61     Hungary                           $            19,300  2007 est.
62     Oman                              $            19,000  2007 est.
63     Barbados                          $            18,900  2007 est.
64     Puerto Rico                       $            18,400  2007 est.
65     Antigua and Barbuda               $            18,300  2007 est.
66     Latvia                            $            17,700  2007 est.
67     French Polynesia                  $            17,500  2003 est.
68     Lithuania                         $            16,800  2007 est.
69     Seychelles                        $            16,600  2007 est.
70     Poland                            $            16,200  2007 est.
71     Netherlands Antilles              $            16,000  2004 est.
72     Croatia                           $            15,500  2007 est.
73     Guam                              $            15,000  2005 est.
74     New Caledonia                     $            15,000  2003 est.
75     Russia                            $            14,800  2007 est.
76     Malaysia                          $            14,500  2007 est.
77     Virgin Islands                    $            14,500  2004 est.
78     Botswana                          $            14,300  2007 est.
79     Chile                             $            14,300  2007 est.
80     Gabon                             $            14,000  2007 est.
81     Saint Kitts and Nevis             $            13,900  2007 est.
82     Argentina                         $            13,100  2007 est.
83     Venezuela                         $            12,800  2007 est.
84     Northern Mariana Islands          $            12,500  2000 est.
85     Libya                             $            12,400  2007 est.
86     Mexico                            $            12,400  2007 est.
87     Turkey                            $            12,000  2007 est.
88     Bulgaria                          $            11,800  2007 est.
89     Iran                              $            11,700  2007 est.
90     Turks and Caicos Islands          $            11,500  2002 est.
91     Mauritius                         $            11,300  2007 est.
92     Costa Rica                        $            11,100  2007 est.
93     Romania                           $            11,100  2007 est.
94     Cuba                              $            11,000  2007 est.
95     Kazakhstan                        $            11,000  2007 est.
96     Uruguay                           $            10,800  2007 est.
97     Panama                            $            10,700  2007 est.
98     Saint Lucia                       $            10,700  2007 est.
99     Belarus                           $            10,600  2007 est.
100    Grenada                           $            10,500  2007 est.
101    Serbia                            $            10,400  2007 est.
102    Lebanon                           $            10,300  2007 est.
103    World                             $            10,000  2007 est.
104    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines  $             9,800  2007 est.
105    South Africa                      $             9,700  2007 est.
106    Brazil                            $             9,500  2007 est.
107    Cook Islands                      $             9,100  2005 est.
108    Dominica                          $             9,000  2007 est.
109    Anguilla                          $             8,800  2004 est.
110    Suriname                          $             8,700  2007 est.
111    Macedonia                         $             8,400  2007 est.
112    Azerbaijan                        $             8,000  2007 est.
113    Thailand                          $             8,000  2007 est.
114    Belize                            $             7,900  2007 est.
115    Angola                            $             7,800  2007 est.
116    Peru                              $             7,600  2007 est.
117    Palau                             $             7,600  2005 est.
118    Colombia                          $             7,400  2007 est.
119    Jamaica                           $             7,400  2007 est.
120    Tunisia                           $             7,400  2007 est.
121    Ecuador                           $             7,200  2007 est.
122    Saint Pierre and Miquelon         $             7,000  2001 est.
123    Ukraine                           $             7,000  2007 est.
124    Algeria                           $             6,700  2007 est.
125    Dominican Republic                $             6,600  2007 est.
126    Bosnia and Herzegovina            $             6,100  2007 est.
127    El Salvador                       $             6,000  2007 est.
128    Albania                           $             5,800  2007 est.
129    Armenia                           $             5,800  2007 est.
130    American Samoa                    $             5,800  2005 est.
131    Niue                              $             5,800  2003 est.
132    China                             $             5,400  2007 est.
133    Samoa                             $             5,400  2007 est.
134    Turkmenistan                      $             5,300  2007 est.
135    Bhutan                            $             5,200  2007 est.
136    Namibia                           $             5,200  2007 est.
137    Guatemala                         $             5,100  2007 est.
138    Tonga                             $             5,100  2007 est.
139    Egypt                             $             5,000  2007 est.
140    Nauru                             $             5,000  2005 est.
141    Mayotte                           $             4,900  2005 est.
142    Jordan                            $             4,700  2007 est.
143    Swaziland                         $             4,700  2007 est.
144    Syria                             $             4,700  2007 est.
145    Maldives                          $             4,600  2007 est.
146    Bolivia                           $             4,400  2007 est.
147    Georgia                           $             4,400  2007 est.
148    Honduras                          $             4,300  2007 est.
149    Sri Lanka                         $             4,000  2007 est.
150    Paraguay                          $             4,000  2007 est.
151    Fiji                              $             3,900  2007 est.
152    Vanuatu                           $             3,900  2007 est.
153    Montenegro                        $             3,800  2005 est.
154    Wallis and Futuna                 $             3,800  2004 est.
155    Guyana                            $             3,700  2007 est.
156    Morocco                           $             3,700  2007 est.
157    Iraq                              $             3,700  2007 est.
158    Indonesia                         $             3,600  2007 est.
159    Kiribati                          $             3,600  2007 est.
160    Congo, Republic of the            $             3,400  2007 est.
161    Montserrat                        $             3,400  2002 est.
162    Cape Verde                        $             3,200  2007 est.
163    Philippines                       $             3,200  2007 est.
164    Mongolia                          $             2,900  2007 est.
165    Marshall Islands                  $             2,900  2005 est.
166    Nicaragua                         $             2,800  2007 est.
167    India                             $             2,600  2007 est.
168    Vietnam                           $             2,600  2007 est.
169    Saint Helena                      $             2,500  1998 est.
170    Timor-Leste                       $             2,500  2007 est.
171    Yemen                             $             2,500  2007 est.
172    Pakistan                          $             2,400  2007 est.
173    Uzbekistan                        $             2,400  2007 est.
174    Djibouti                          $             2,300  2007 est.
175    Micronesia, Federated States of   $             2,300  2005 est.
176    Moldova                           $             2,300  2007 est.
177    Cameroon                          $             2,200  2007 est.
178    Nigeria                           $             2,100  2007 est.
179    Papua New Guinea                  $             2,100  2007 est.
180    Kyrgyzstan                        $             2,000  2007 est.
181    Laos                              $             2,000  2007 est.
182    Burma                             $             1,900  2007 est.
183    Solomon Islands                   $             1,900  2007 est.
184    Sudan                             $             1,900  2007 est.
185    Cambodia                          $             1,900  2007 est.
186    Kosovo                            $             1,800  2007 est.
187    Mauritania                        $             1,800  2007 est.
188    Cote d'Ivoire                     $             1,700  2007 est.
189    Korea, North                      $             1,700  2007 est.
190    Kenya                             $             1,700  2007 est.
191    Senegal                           $             1,700  2007 est.
192    Tajikistan                        $             1,600  2007 est.
193    Sao Tome and Principe             $             1,600  2007 est.
194    Tuvalu                            $             1,600  2002 est.
195    Chad                              $             1,500  2007 est.
196    Bangladesh                        $             1,400  2007 est.
197    Zambia                            $             1,400  2007 est.
198    Benin                             $             1,400  2007 est.
199    Lesotho                           $             1,400  2007 est.
200    Ghana                             $             1,400  2007 est.
201    Haiti                             $             1,300  2007 est.
202    Tanzania                          $             1,300  2007 est.
203    Gambia, The                       $             1,200  2007 est.
204    Burkina Faso                      $             1,200  2007 est.
205    Comoros                           $             1,100  2007 est.
206    Guinea                            $             1,100  2007 est.
207    West Bank                         $             1,100  2006 est.
208    Mali                              $             1,100  2007 est.
209    Gaza Strip                        $             1,100  2006 est.
210    Afghanistan                       $             1,000  2007 est.
211    Uganda                            $             1,000  2007 est.
212    Nepal                             $             1,000  2007 est.
213    Tokelau                           $             1,000  1993 est.
214    Madagascar                        $              900  2007 est.
215    Togo                              $              900  2007 est.
216    Eritrea                           $              800  2007 est.
217    Rwanda                            $              800  2007 est.
218    Malawi                            $              800  2007 est.
219    Mozambique                        $              800  2007 est.
220    Central African Republic          $              700  2007 est.
221    Niger                             $              700  2007 est.
222    Ethiopia                          $              700  2007 est.
223    Guinea-Bissau                     $              600  2007 est.
224    Sierra Leone                      $              600  2007 est.
225    Somalia                           $              600  2007 est.
226    Liberia                           $              500  2007 est.
227    Burundi                           $              300  2007 est.
228    Congo, Democratic Republic of the  $              300  2007 est.
229    Zimbabwe                          $              200  2007 est.

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2034

Rank   Country                           Military expenditures(% of GDP)  Date of Information

1      Oman                                  11.40           2005 est.
2      Qatar                                 10.00           2005 est.
3      Saudi Arabia                          10.00           2005 est.
4      Iraq                                   8.60           2006
5      Jordan                                 8.60           2006
6      Israel                                 7.30           2006
7      Yemen                                  6.60           2006
8      Armenia                                6.50           FY01
9      Eritrea                                6.30           2006 est.
10     Macedonia                              6.00           2005 est.
11     Burundi                                5.90           2006 est.
12     Syria                                  5.90           2005 est.
13     Angola                                 5.70           2006
14     Mauritania                             5.50           2006
15     Maldives                               5.50           2005 est.
16     Kuwait                                 5.30           2006
17     Turkey                                 5.30           2005 est.
18     El Salvador                            5.00           2006
19     Morocco                                5.00           2003 est.
20     Singapore                              4.90           2005 est.
21     Swaziland                              4.70           2006
22     Bahrain                                4.50           2006
23     Bosnia and Herzegovina                 4.50           2005 est.
24     Brunei                                 4.50           2006
25     China                                  4.30           2006
26     Greece                                 4.30           2005 est.
27     Chad                                   4.20           2006
28     United States                          4.06           2005 est.
29     Libya                                  3.90           2005 est.
30     Russia                                 3.90           2005
31     Tajikistan                             3.90           2005 est.
32     Cuba                                   3.80           2006 est.
33     Djibouti                               3.80           2006
34     Cyprus                                 3.80           2005 est.
35     Zimbabwe                               3.80           2006
36     Namibia                                3.70           2006
37     Colombia                               3.40           2005 est.
38     Gabon                                  3.40           2005 est.
39     Egypt                                  3.40           2005 est.
40     Turkmenistan                           3.40           2005 est.
41     Algeria                                3.30           2006
42     Botswana                               3.30           2006
43     United Arab Emirates                   3.10           2005 est.
44     Guinea-Bissau                          3.10           2005 est.
45     Lebanon                                3.10           2005 est.
46     Congo, Republic of the                 3.10           2006
47     Solomon Islands                        3.00           2006
48     Cambodia                               3.00           2005 est.
49     Ethiopia                               3.00           2006
50     Indonesia                              3.00           2005 est.
51     Sudan                                  3.00           2005 est.
52     Pakistan                               3.00           2007 est.
53     Rwanda                                 2.90           2006 est.
54     Comoros                                2.80           2006
55     Ecuador                                2.80           2006
56     Kenya                                  2.80           2006
57     Chile                                  2.70           2006
58     Korea, South                           2.70           2006
59     Azerbaijan                             2.60           2005 est.
60     Lesotho                                2.60           2006
61     France                                 2.60           2005 est.
62     Brazil                                 2.60           2006 est.
63     Sri Lanka                              2.60           2006
64     Bulgaria                               2.60           2005 est.
65     Congo, Democratic Republic of the       2.50          2006
66     India                                  2.50           2006
67     Iran                                   2.50           2006
68     Vietnam                                2.50           2005 est.
69     Australia                              2.40           2006
70     United Kingdom                         2.40           2005 est.
71     Croatia                                2.39           2005 est.
72     Portugal                               2.30           2005 est.
73     Sierra Leone                           2.30           2006
74     Fiji                                   2.20           2005 est.
75     Taiwan                                 2.20
76     Uganda                                 2.20           2006
77     Burma                                  2.10           2005 est.
78     Malaysia                               2.03           2005 est.
79     Estonia                                2.00           2005 est.
80     World                                  2.00           2005 est.
81     Uzbekistan                             2.00           2005 est.
82     Seychelles                             2.00           2006 est.
83     Finland                                2.00           2005 est.
84     Afghanistan                            1.90           2006 est.
85     Romania                                1.90           2007 est.
86     Norway                                 1.90           2005 est.
87     Mali                                   1.90           2006
88     Bolivia                                1.90           2006
89     Slovakia                               1.87           2005 est.
90     Guyana                                 1.80           2006
91     Thailand                               1.80           2005 est.
92     Zambia                                 1.80           2005 est.
93     Italy                                  1.80           2005 est.
94     Hungary                                1.75           2005 est.
95     Poland                                 1.71           2005 est.
96     Benin                                  1.70           2006
97     Guinea                                 1.70           2006
98     South Africa                           1.70           2006
99     Slovenia                               1.70           2005 est.
100    Cote d'Ivoire                          1.60           2005 est
101    Netherlands                            1.60           2005 est.
102    Togo                                   1.60           2005 est.
103    Uruguay                                1.60           2006
104    Nepal                                  1.60           2006
105    Bangladesh                             1.50           2006
106    Sweden                                 1.50           2005 est.
107    Peru                                   1.50           2006
108    Nigeria                                1.50           2006
109    Denmark                                1.50
110    Germany                                1.50           2005 est.
111    Albania                                1.49           2005 est.
112    Czech Republic                         1.46           2007 est.
113    Belize                                 1.40           2006
114    Ukraine                                1.40           2005 est.
115    Belarus                                1.40           2005 est.
116    Kyrgyzstan                             1.40           2005 est.
117    Papua New Guinea                       1.40           2005 est.
118    Tunisia                                1.40           2006
119    Senegal                                1.40           2005 est.
120    Mongolia                               1.40           2006
121    Argentina                              1.30           2005 est.
122    Cameroon                               1.30           2006
123    Niger                                  1.30           2006
124    Malawi                                 1.30           2006
125    Liberia                                1.30           2006 est.
126    Belgium                                1.30           2005 est.
127    Latvia                                 1.20           2005 est.
128    Burkina Faso                           1.20           2006
129    Venezuela                              1.20           2005 est.
130    Spain                                  1.20           2005 est.
131    Lithuania                              1.20
132    Canada                                 1.10           2005 est.
133    Central African Republic               1.10           2006 est.
134    Bhutan                                 1.00           2005 est.
135    Madagascar                             1.00           2006
136    Switzerland                            1.00           2005 est.
137    Panama                                 1.00           2006
138    Paraguay                               1.00           2006 est.
139    New Zealand                            1.00           2005 est.
140    Austria                                0.90           2005 est.
141    Kazakhstan                             0.90           FY02
142    Luxembourg                             0.90           2005 est.
143    Tonga                                  0.90           2006 est.
144    Somalia                                0.90           2005 est.
145    Philippines                            0.90           2005 est.
146    Ireland                                0.90           2005 est.
147    Dominican Republic                     0.80           2006
148    Sao Tome and Principe                  0.80           2006
149    Japan                                  0.80           2006
150    Mozambique                             0.80           2006
151    Ghana                                  0.80           2006 est.
152    Cape Verde                             0.70           2005
153    Malta                                  0.70           2006 est.
154    Honduras                               0.60           2006 est.
155    Nicaragua                              0.60           2006
156    Suriname                               0.60           2006 est.
157    Jamaica                                0.60           2006 est.
158    Georgia                                0.59           2005 est.
159    Barbados                               0.50           2006 est.
160    Gambia, The                            0.50           2006
161    Bahamas, The                           0.50           2006
162    Mexico                                 0.50           2006 est.
163    Laos                                   0.50           2006
164    Costa Rica                             0.40           2006
165    Guatemala                              0.40           2006
166    Moldova                                0.40           2005 est.
167    Haiti                                  0.40           2006
168    Mauritius                              0.30           2006 est.
169    Trinidad and Tobago                    0.30           2006
170    Tanzania                               0.20           2005 est.
171    Bermuda                                0.11           2005 est.
172    Equatorial Guinea                      0.10           2006 est.
173    Iceland                                0.00           2005 est.

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2038

Rank   Country                           Electricity - production(kWh)  Date of Information

1      World                              18,960,000,000,000  2007 est.
2      United States                       4,167,000,000,000  2007 est.
3      China                               3,256,000,000,000  2007
4      European Union                      3,056,000,000,000  2007 est.
5      Japan                               1,082,000,000,000  2007 est.
6      Russia                               964,200,000,000  2007 est.
7      India                                665,300,000,000  2007 est.
8      Canada                               612,600,000,000  2007 est.
9      Germany                              594,700,000,000  2007 est.
10     France                               537,900,000,000  2007 est.
11     Brazil                               437,300,000,000  2007 est.
12     Korea, South                         412,700,000,000  2007 est.
13     United Kingdom                       371,000,000,000  2007 est.
14     Italy                                292,100,000,000  2007 est.
15     Spain                                287,400,000,000  2007 est.
16     South Africa                         264,000,000,000  2007
17     Australia                            244,200,000,000  2007 est.
18     Mexico                               243,300,000,000  2007 est.
19     Taiwan                               216,600,000,000  2006 est.
20     Iran                                 189,900,000,000  2006 est.
21     Ukraine                              182,400,000,000  2006 est.
22     Turkey                               181,600,000,000  2007 est.
23     Saudi Arabia                         179,100,000,000  2007 est.
24     Poland                               149,300,000,000  2007 est.
25     Sweden                               143,800,000,000  2007 est.
26     Norway                               135,000,000,000  2007 est.
27     Thailand                             130,700,000,000  2006 est.
28     Indonesia                            125,700,000,000  2006 est.
29     Venezuela                            110,700,000,000  2007 est.
30     Argentina                            109,400,000,000  2006 est.
31     Egypt                                109,100,000,000  2006 est.
32     Malaysia                             102,900,000,000  2007 est.
33     Netherlands                           97,330,000,000  2007 est.
34     Pakistan                              93,260,000,000  2007 est.
35     Belgium                               82,940,000,000  2007 est.
36     Czech Republic                        82,880,000,000  2007 est.
37     Finland                               77,020,000,000  2007 est.
38     Kazakhstan                            74,930,000,000  2007 est.
39     Paraguay                              70,000,000,000  2007
40     Switzerland                           64,560,000,000  2007 est.
41     United Arab Emirates                  62,760,000,000  2006 est.
42     Vietnam                               61,020,000,000  2007 est.
43     Greece                                59,330,000,000  2007 est.
44     Austria                               59,310,000,000  2007 est.
45     Romania                               58,250,000,000  2007 est.
46     Philippines                           56,510,000,000  2007 est.
47     Colombia                              51,830,000,000  2006 est.
48     Chile                                 50,370,000,000  2006 est.
49     Uzbekistan                            48,790,000,000  2007 est.
50     Israel                                48,700,000,000  2006 est.
51     Portugal                              44,830,000,000  2007 est.
52     Kuwait                                44,750,000,000  2006 est.
53     Bulgaria                              43,150,000,000  2006 est.
54     New Zealand                           42,410,000,000  2007 est.
55     Singapore                             38,680,000,000  2007 est.
56     Hungary                               37,660,000,000  2007 est.
57     Denmark                               36,990,000,000  2007 est.
58     Hong Kong                             36,610,000,000  2007 est.
59     Syria                                 34,940,000,000  2007 est.
60     Serbia                                33,870,000,000  2004
61     Iraq                                  33,530,000,000  2007 est.
62     Algeria                               33,120,000,000  2006 est.
63     Belarus                               29,910,000,000  2006 est.
64     Slovakia                              26,170,000,000  2007 est.
65     Ireland                               25,770,000,000  2007 est.
66     Peru                                  24,920,000,000  2006 est.
67     Libya                                 23,980,000,000  2007 est.
68     Puerto Rico                           23,840,000,000  2006 est.
69     Azerbaijan                            23,800,000,000  2007 est.
70     Bangladesh                            22,780,000,000  2007 est.
71     Nigeria                               22,110,000,000  2006 est.
72     Morocco                               21,880,000,000  2006 est.
73     Korea, North                          21,720,000,000  2006 est.
74     Tajikistan                            17,400,000,000  2007
75     Cuba                                  16,970,000,000  2007 est.
76     Kyrgyzstan                            15,620,000,000  2006 est.
77     Ecuador                               14,840,000,000  2006 est.
78     Mozambique                            14,620,000,000  2006 est.
79     Qatar                                 14,410,000,000  2006 est.
80     Slovenia                              14,130,000,000  2007 est.
81     Oman                                  13,580,000,000  2007 est.
82     Dominican Republic                    13,370,000,000  2006 est.
83     Bosnia and Herzegovina                12,840,000,000  2006 est.
84     Turkmenistan                          12,830,000,000  2006 est.
85     Tunisia                               12,650,000,000  2006 est.
86     Croatia                               12,410,000,000  2006 est.
87     Lithuania                             11,910,000,000  2006 est.
88     Iceland                               11,710,000,000  2007 est.
89     Jordan                                10,870,000,000  2006 est.
90     Zimbabwe                               9,467,000,000  2006 est.
91     Zambia                                 9,289,000,000  2006 est.
92     Bahrain                                9,233,000,000  2006 est.
93     Uruguay                                9,200,000,000  2007
94     Estonia                                9,158,000,000  2006 est.
95     Lebanon                                8,764,000,000  2006 est.
96     Costa Rica                             8,521,000,000  2006 est.
97     Sri Lanka                              8,317,000,000  2006 est.
98     Ghana                                  8,204,000,000  2006 est.
99     Trinidad and Tobago                    7,704,000,000  2007
100    Guatemala                              7,643,000,000  2006 est.
101    Congo, Democratic Republic of the       7,243,000,000  2006 est.
102    Georgia                                7,116,000,000  2006 est.
103    Jamaica                                7,040,000,000  2006 est.
104    Kenya                                  6,264,000,000  2006 est.
105    Macedonia                              6,051,000,000  2007
106    Burma                                  5,961,000,000  2006 est.
107    Panama                                 5,805,000,000  2006 est.
108    Honduras                               5,753,000,000  2006 est.
109    Bolivia                                5,668,000,000  2007 est.
110    Armenia                                5,544,000,000  2007 est.
111    El Salvador                            5,338,000,000  2007 est.
112    Cote d'Ivoire                          5,274,000,000  2006 est.
113    Yemen                                  5,017,000,000  2006 est.
114    Latvia                                 4,734,000,000  2006 est.
115    Cyprus                                 4,520,000,000  2007 est.
116    Bhutan                                 4,475,000,000  2007 est.
117    Sudan                                  4,037,000,000  2006 est.
118    Kosovo                                 3,996,000,000  2006
119    Cameroon                               3,903,000,000  2006 est.
120    Moldova                                3,824,000,000  2006 est.
121    Angola                                 3,513,000,000  2006 est.
122    Ethiopia                               3,268,000,000  2006 est.
123    Brunei                                 3,100,000,000  2006 est.
124    Mongolia                               3,078,000,000  2007 est.
125    Nicaragua                              3,012,000,000  2006 est.
126    Luxembourg                             3,010,000,000  2007 est.
127    Albania                                2,892,000,000  2007 est.
128    Papua New Guinea                       2,875,000,000  2006 est.
129    Montenegro                             2,864,000,000  2005 est.
130    Nepal                                  2,703,000,000  2007 est.
131    Tanzania                               2,682,000,000  2006 est.
132    Mauritius                              2,321,000,000  2007 est.
133    Senegal                                2,280,000,000  2006 est.
134    Malta                                  2,146,000,000  2007 est.
135    Bahamas, The                           2,050,000,000  2007 est.
136    Guam                                   1,789,000,000  2006 est.
137    Gabon                                  1,671,000,000  2006 est.
138    Laos                                   1,639,000,000  2006 est.
139    Namibia                                1,606,000,000  2007 est.
140    New Caledonia                          1,602,000,000  2006 est.
141    Suriname                               1,595,000,000  2006 est.
142    Macau                                  1,454,000,000  2007 est.
143    Netherlands Antilles                   1,195,000,000  2006 est.
144    Cambodia                               1,163,000,000  2006 est.
145    Uganda                                 1,161,000,000  2006 est.
146    Malawi                                 1,130,000,000  2006 est.
147    Madagascar                             1,045,000,000  2007 est.
148    Barbados                               1,003,000,000  2007 est.
149    Botswana                                979,000,000   2006 est.
150    Virgin Islands                          960,000,000   2006 est.
151    Fiji                                    928,000,000   2007 est.
152    Guyana                                  901,000,000   2006 est.
153    Afghanistan                             839,000,000   2007 est.
154    Aruba                                   800,000,000   2006 est.
155    Guinea                                  800,000,000   2006 est.
156    Bermuda                                 675,600,000   2007 est.
157    Burkina Faso                            611,600,000   2007 est.
158    Haiti                                   549,000,000   2006 est.
159    Cayman Islands                          546,100,000   2007 est.
160    Mali                                    505,000,000   2006 est.
161    French Polynesia                        475,000,000   2006 est.
162    Swaziland                               460,000,000   2007
163    Congo, Republic of the                  444,000,000   2006 est.
164    Mauritania                              412,300,000   2006 est.
165    Saint Lucia                             325,000,000   2007 est.
166    Liberia                                 320,000,000   2006 est.
167    Greenland                               305,000,000   2006 est.
168    Faroe Islands                           295,000,000   2006 est.
169    Somalia                                 280,000,000   2006 est.
170    Eritrea                                 253,000,000   2006 est.
171    Djibouti                                250,000,000   2006 est.
172    Sierra Leone                            250,000,000   2006 est.
173    Niger                                   240,000,000   2006 est.
174    Maldives                                230,000,000   2007 est.
175    Belize                                  213,500,000   2007 est.
176    Seychelles                              208,000,000   2006 est.
177    Togo                                    203,000,000   2006 est.
178    Gambia, The                             200,200,000   2007 est.
179    Lesotho                                 200,000,000   2006 est.
180    Micronesia, Federated States of         192,000,000   2002
181    American Samoa                          180,000,000   2006 est.
182    Grenada                                 167,200,000   2006 est.
183    Gibraltar                               142,000,000   2006 est.
184    Rwanda                                  134,000,000   2006 est.
185    Saint Kitts and Nevis                   130,000,000   2006 est.
186    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines        129,000,000   2006 est.
187    Benin                                   120,000,000   2006 est.
188    Central African Republic                110,000,000   2006 est.
189    Samoa                                   109,000,000   2006 est.
190    Antigua and Barbuda                     105,000,000   2006 est.
191    Chad                                     95,000,000   2006 est.
192    Dominica                                 90,000,000   2006 est.
193    Western Sahara                           90,000,000   2006 est.
194    Burundi                                  87,000,000   2006 est.
195    Solomon Islands                          70,000,000   2007 est.
196    Guinea-Bissau                            60,000,000   2006 est.
197    Saint Pierre and Miquelon                53,000,000   2006 est.
198    Cape Verde                               47,000,000   2006 est.
199    Vanuatu                                  46,000,000   2007 est.
200    British Virgin Islands                   45,000,000   2006 est.
201    Tonga                                    43,000,000   2007 est.
202    Nauru                                    31,000,000   2006 est.
203    Cook Islands                             30,000,000   2006 est.
204    Equatorial Guinea                        27,000,000   2006 est.
205    Montserrat                               22,000,000   2006 est.
206    Comoros                                  20,000,000   2006 est.
207    Sao Tome and Principe                    18,000,000   2006 est.
208    Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)         16,000,000  2006 est.
209    Kiribati                                 10,000,000   2006 est.
210    Turks and Caicos Islands                 10,000,000   2006 est.
211    Saint Helena                              8,000,000   2006 est.
212    Niue                                      4,000,000   2006 est.
213    Gaza Strip                                 140,000    2005

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2042

Rank   Country                           Electricity - consumption(kWh)  Date of Information

1      World                              16,880,000,000,000  2007 est.
2      United States                       3,892,000,000,000  2007 est.
3      China                               2,859,000,000,000  2006
4      European Union                      2,858,000,000,000  2007 est.
5      Japan                                982,500,000,000  2006 est.
6      Russia                               819,600,000,000  2006 est.
7      Germany                              549,100,000,000  2006 est.
8      Canada                               530,000,000,000  2006 est.
9      India                                517,200,000,000  2006 est.
10     France                               447,300,000,000  2006 est.
11     Brazil                               402,200,000,000  2007 est.
12     Korea, South                         368,600,000,000  2007
13     United Kingdom                       348,500,000,000  2006 est.
14     Italy                                316,300,000,000  2006 est.
15     Spain                                254,100,000,000  2006 est.
16     South Africa                         241,400,000,000  2007
17     Australia                            220,000,000,000  2006 est.
18     Taiwan                               208,700,000,000  2006 est.
19     Mexico                               202,000,000,000  2007 est.
20     Saudi Arabia                         156,800,000,000  2006 est.
21     Iran                                 149,400,000,000  2006 est.
22     Ukraine                              148,100,000,000  2006 est.
23     Turkey                               141,500,000,000  2006 est.
24     Sweden                               133,600,000,000  2006 est.
25     Poland                               126,200,000,000  2006 est.
26     Thailand                             123,900,000,000  2006 est.
27     Norway                               111,500,000,000  2006 est.
28     Indonesia                            110,700,000,000  2006 est.
29     Netherlands                          109,600,000,000  2006 est.
30     Argentina                             97,720,000,000  2006 est.
31     Egypt                                 96,200,000,000  2006 est.
32     Malaysia                              95,980,000,000  2006 est.
33     Finland                               86,040,000,000  2006 est.
34     Belgium                               85,540,000,000  2006 est.
35     Venezuela                             83,840,000,000  2006 est.
36     Pakistan                              68,400,000,000  2006 est.
37     Austria                               62,350,000,000  2006 est.
38     Kazakhstan                            61,810,000,000  2006 est.
39     Czech Republic                        61,520,000,000  2006 est.
40     Switzerland                           58,770,000,000  2006 est.
41     United Arab Emirates                  57,880,000,000  2006 est.
42     Greece                                55,980,000,000  2006 est.
43     Romania                               48,430,000,000  2006 est.
44     Vietnam                               48,080,000,000  2006 est.
45     Portugal                              48,020,000,000  2006 est.
46     Philippines                           47,040,000,000  2006 est.
47     Chile                                 45,520,000,000  2006 est.
48     Israel                                44,740,000,000  2006 est.
49     Uzbekistan                            42,230,000,000  2006 est.
50     Colombia                              39,580,000,000  2006 est.
51     Kuwait                                39,540,000,000  2006 est.
52     New Zealand                           38,930,000,000  2006 est.
53     Hong Kong                             38,020,000,000  2006 est.
54     Hungary                               37,110,000,000  2006 est.
55     Iraq                                  35,840,000,000  2007 est.
56     Singapore                             35,130,000,000  2006 est.
57     Denmark                               34,680,000,000  2006 est.
58     Syria                                 34,000,000,000  2007 est.
59     Bulgaria                              30,500,000,000  2006 est.
60     Belarus                               30,430,000,000  2006 est.
61     Azerbaijan                            27,500,000,000  2007 est.
62     Algeria                               26,910,000,000  2006 est.
63     Slovakia                              26,000,000,000  2006 est.
64     Ireland                               25,670,000,000  2006 est.
65     Peru                                  22,370,000,000  2006 est.
66     Puerto Rico                           22,170,000,000  2006 est.
67     Bangladesh                            21,370,000,000  2006 est.
68     Libya                                 20,710,000,000  2006 est.
69     Morocco                               19,580,000,000  2006 est.
70     Korea, North                          18,180,000,000  2006 est.
71     Tajikistan                            17,900,000,000  2007
72     Nigeria                               15,850,000,000  2006 est.
73     Croatia                               15,570,000,000  2006 est.
74     Cuba                                  14,020,000,000  2007 est.
75     Slovenia                              13,400,000,000  2006 est.
76     Qatar                                 13,190,000,000  2006 est.
77     Ecuador                               12,900,000,000  2006 est.
78     Dominican Republic                    11,810,000,000  2006 est.
79     Zimbabwe                              11,590,000,000  2006 est.
80     Tunisia                               10,750,000,000  2006 est.
81     Oman                                  10,530,000,000  2006 est.
82     Lithuania                             10,400,000,000  2006 est.
83     Jordan                                 9,852,000,000  2006 est.
84     Turkmenistan                           9,584,000,000  2006 est.
85     Mozambique                             9,555,000,000  2006 est.
86     Iceland                                9,312,000,000  2006 est.
87     Kyrgyzstan                             8,997,000,000  2006 est.
88     Bahrain                                8,742,000,000  2006 est.
89     Macedonia                              8,651,000,000  2007
90     Zambia                                 8,625,000,000  2006 est.
91     Bosnia and Herzegovina                 8,501,000,000  2006 est.
92     Lebanon                                8,161,000,000  2006 est.
93     Costa Rica                             7,779,000,000  2006 est.
94     Estonia                                7,331,000,000  2006 est.
95     Trinidad and Tobago                    7,083,000,000  2007
96     Uruguay                                7,030,000,000  2007
97     Sri Lanka                              6,884,000,000  2006 est.
98     Ghana                                  6,760,000,000  2006 est.
99     Luxembourg                             6,748,000,000  2006 est.
100    Georgia                                6,694,000,000  2006 est.
101    Guatemala                              6,617,000,000  2006 est.
102    Latvia                                 6,424,000,000  2006 est.
103    Jamaica                                6,100,000,000  2006 est.
104    Paraguay                               6,000,000,000  2007
105    Moldova                                5,806,000,000  2006 est.
106    Congo, Democratic Republic of the       5,158,000,000  2006 est.
107    Kenya                                  5,124,000,000  2006 est.
108    Bolivia                                5,092,000,000  2007 est.
109    Panama                                 4,768,000,000  2006 est.
110    Armenia                                4,539,000,000  2006 est.
111    El Salvador                            4,426,000,000  2007 est.
112    Burma                                  4,289,000,000  2006 est.
113    Kosovo                                 4,281,000,000  2006
114    Honduras                               4,233,000,000  2006 est.
115    Cyprus                                 4,151,000,000  2006 est.
116    Yemen                                  3,804,000,000  2006 est.
117    Albania                                3,607,000,000  2007 est.
118    Sudan                                  3,398,000,000  2006 est.
119    Cameroon                               3,323,000,000  2006 est.
120    Namibia                                3,194,000,000  2006 est.
121    Cote d'Ivoire                          3,177,000,000  2006 est.
122    Angola                                 3,084,000,000  2006 est.
123    Macau                                  2,984,000,000  2007 est.
124    Ethiopia                               2,941,000,000  2006 est.
125    Brunei                                 2,924,000,000  2006 est.
126    Papua New Guinea                       2,674,000,000  2006 est.
127    Mongolia                               2,638,000,000  2006 est.
128    Botswana                               2,574,000,000  2006 est.
129    Nicaragua                              2,413,000,000  2006 est.
130    Nepal                                  2,276,000,000  2006 est.
131    Tanzania                               2,225,000,000  2006 est.
132    Mauritius                              2,058,000,000  2006 est.
133    Malta                                  1,850,000,000  2006 est.
134    Bahamas, The                           1,793,000,000  2006 est.
135    Guam                                   1,664,000,000  2006 est.
136    Senegal                                1,657,000,000  2006 est.
137    New Caledonia                          1,490,000,000  2006 est.
138    Suriname                               1,457,000,000  2006 est.
139    Gabon                                  1,365,000,000  2006 est.
140    Laos                                   1,344,000,000  2006 est.
141    Swaziland                              1,200,000,000  2007
142    Cambodia                               1,178,000,000  2006 est.
143    Afghanistan                            1,088,000,000  2006 est.
144    Malawi                                 1,051,000,000  2006 est.
145    Fiji                                   1,016,000,000  2006 est.
146    Netherlands Antilles                    992,000,000   2006 est.
147    Barbados                                939,900,000   2007 est.
148    Madagascar                              907,000,000   2006 est.
149    Uganda                                  899,700,000   2006 est.
150    Virgin Islands                          892,800,000   2006 est.
151    Guyana                                  747,000,000   2006 est.
152    Aruba                                   744,000,000   2006 est.
153    Guinea                                  744,000,000   2006 est.
154    Jersey                                  630,100,000   2004 est.
155    Bermuda                                 619,800,000   2006 est.
156    Togo                                    607,000,000   2006 est.
157    Benin                                   595,000,000   2006 est.
158    Congo, Republic of the                  564,000,000   2006 est.
159    Cayman Islands                          546,100,000   2007 est.
160    Bhutan                                  528,800,000   2007 est.
161    Burkina Faso                            509,300,000   2006 est.
162    Mali                                    469,700,000   2006 est.
163    Niger                                   443,200,000   2006 est.
164    French Polynesia                        441,800,000   2006 est.
165    Mauritania                              383,400,000   2006 est.
166    Haiti                                   330,000,000   2006 est.
167    Liberia                                 297,600,000   2006 est.
168    Saint Lucia                             289,200,000   2006 est.
169    Greenland                               283,700,000   2006 est.
170    Faroe Islands                           274,400,000   2006 est.
171    Somalia                                 260,400,000   2006 est.
172    Rwanda                                  234,600,000   2006 est.
173    Djibouti                                232,500,000   2006 est.
174    Sierra Leone                            232,500,000   2006 est.
175    Lesotho                                 226,000,000   2006 est.
176    Eritrea                                 216,000,000   2006 est.
177    Maldives                                203,700,000   2006 est.
178    Seychelles                              193,400,000   2006 est.
179    Belize                                  193,300,000   2006 est.
180    Micronesia, Federated States of         178,600,000   2002
181    American Samoa                          167,400,000   2006 est.
182    Grenada                                 144,200,000   2006 est.
183    Gambia, The                             143,600,000   2006 est.
184    Gibraltar                               142,000,000   2006 est.
185    Mayotte                                 139,200,000   2005
186    Burundi                                 120,900,000   2006 est.
187    Saint Kitts and Nevis                   120,900,000   2006 est.
188    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines        120,000,000   2006 est.
189    Central African Republic                102,300,000   2006 est.
190    Samoa                                   101,400,000   2006 est.
191    Antigua and Barbuda                      97,650,000   2006 est.
192    Chad                                     88,350,000   2006 est.
193    Dominica                                 83,700,000   2006 est.
194    Western Sahara                           83,700,000   2006 est.
195    Solomon Islands                          70,000,000   2007 est.
196    Guinea-Bissau                            55,800,000   2006 est.
197    Saint Pierre and Miquelon                49,290,000   2006 est.
198    Cape Verde                               43,710,000   2006 est.
199    British Virgin Islands                   41,850,000   2006 est.
200    Vanuatu                                  39,990,000   2006 est.
201    Tonga                                    39,990,000   2006 est.
202    Nauru                                    28,830,000   2006 est.
203    Cook Islands                             27,900,000   2006 est.
204    Equatorial Guinea                        25,110,000   2006 est.
205    Montserrat                               20,460,000   2006 est.
206    Comoros                                  18,600,000   2006 est.
207    Montenegro                               18,600,000   2005
208    Sao Tome and Principe                    16,740,000   2006 est.
209    Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)         14,880,000  2006 est.
210    Kiribati                                  9,300,000   2006 est.
211    Turks and Caicos Islands                  9,300,000   2006 est.
212    Saint Helena                              7,440,000   2006 est.
213    Niue                                      3,720,000   2006 est.
214    Gaza Strip                                 230,000    2005

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2053

Rank   Country                           Airports            Date of Information

1      World                                       49,024    2006
2      United States                               14,947    2007
3      Brazil                                       4,263    2007
4      Mexico                                       1,834    2007
5      Canada                                       1,343    2007
6      Argentina                                    1,272    2007
7      Russia                                       1,260    2007
8      Bolivia                                      1,061    2007
9      Colombia                                      934     2007
10     Paraguay                                      838     2007
11     South Africa                                  728     2007
12     Indonesia                                     652     2007
13     Papua New Guinea                              578     2007
14     Germany                                       550     2007
15     France                                        476     2007
16     China                                         467     2007
17     Australia                                     461     2007
18     United Kingdom                                449     2007
19     Ukraine                                       437     2007
20     Ecuador                                       406     2007
21     Guatemala                                     402     2007
22     Venezuela                                     390     2007
23     Chile                                         358     2007
24     India                                         346     2007
25     Zimbabwe                                      341     2007
26     Iran                                          331     2007
27     Philippines                                   255     2007
28     Sweden                                        250     2007
29     Congo, Democratic Republic of the              237    2007
30     Peru                                          237     2007
31     Angola                                        232     2007
32     Kenya                                         225     2007
33     Bulgaria                                      214     2007
34     Saudi Arabia                                  213     2007
35     Japan                                         176     2007
36     Cuba                                          165     2007
37     Nicaragua                                     163     2007
38     Spain                                         154     2007
39     Costa Rica                                    151     2007
40     Algeria                                       150     2007
41     Finland                                       148     2007
42     Mozambique                                    147     2007
43     Pakistan                                      146     2007
44     Libya                                         141     2007
45     Oman                                          137     2007
46     Namibia                                       137     2007
47     Italy                                         132     2007
48     Tanzania                                      124     2007
49     Poland                                        123     2007
50     Czech Republic                                122     2007
51     New Zealand                                   121     2007
52     Turkey                                        117     2007
53     Malaysia                                      116     2007
54     Panama                                        116     2007
55     Honduras                                      112     2007
56     Iraq                                          110     2007
57     Zambia                                        107     2007
58     Thailand                                      106     2007
59     Korea, South                                  105     2007
60     Madagascar                                    104     2007
61     Sudan                                         101     2007
62     Iceland                                        99     2007
63     Norway                                         98     2007
64     Kazakhstan                                     97     2007
65     Guyana                                         93     2007
66     Denmark                                        91     2007
67     Syria                                          90     2007
68     Egypt                                          88     2007
69     Lithuania                                      87     2007
70     Burma                                          86     2007
71     Botswana                                       85     2007
72     Ethiopia                                       84     2007
73     Greece                                         81     2007
74     Korea, North                                   77     2007
75     Nigeria                                        70     2007
76     Croatia                                        68     2007
77     Belarus                                        67     2007
78     Somalia                                        67     2007
79     Portugal                                       66     2007
80     El Salvador                                    65     2007
81     Switzerland                                    65     2007
82     Bahamas, The                                   62     2007
83     Romania                                        61     2007
84     Morocco                                        60     2007
85     Uruguay                                        60     2007
86     Austria                                        55     2007
87     Chad                                           55     2007
88     French Polynesia                               54     2007
89     Uzbekistan                                     54     2007
90     Gabon                                          53     2007
91     Israel                                         53     2007
92     Liberia                                        53     2007
93     Central African Republic                       51     2007
94     Suriname                                       50     2007
95     Yemen                                          50     2007
96     Nepal                                          47     2007
97     Afghanistan                                    46     2007
98     Hungary                                        46     2007
99     Cameroon                                       45     2007
100    Belize                                         44     2007
101    Mongolia                                       44     2007
102    Vietnam                                        44     2007
103    Belgium                                        43     2007
104    Laos                                           42     2007
105    Latvia                                         42     2007
106    Taiwan                                         41     2007
107    United Arab Emirates                           39     2007
108    Serbia                                         39     2007
109    Malawi                                         39     2007
110    Azerbaijan                                     35     2007
111    Solomon Islands                                35     2007
112    Slovakia                                       35     2007
113    Dominican Republic                             34     2007
114    Ireland                                        34     2007
115    Jamaica                                        34     2007
116    Cote d'Ivoire                                  34     2007
117    Burkina Faso                                   33     2007
118    Uganda                                         32     2007
119    Congo, Republic of the                         31     2007
120    Vanuatu                                        31     2007
121    Kyrgyzstan                                     30     2007
122    Tunisia                                        30     2007
123    Mali                                           29     2007
124    Puerto Rico                                    29     2007
125    Bosnia and Herzegovina                         28     2007
126    Fiji                                           28     2007
127    Turkmenistan                                   28     2007
128    Niger                                          28     2007
129    Lesotho                                        28     2007
130    Antarctica                                     27     2008
131    Guinea-Bissau                                  27     2007
132    Netherlands                                    27     2007
133    Tajikistan                                     26     2007
134    Mauritania                                     25     2007
135    New Caledonia                                  25     2007
136    Georgia                                        23     2007
137    Senegal                                        20     2007
138    Estonia                                        19     2007
139    Kiribati                                       19     2007
140    Sri Lanka                                      18     2007
141    Eritrea                                        18     2007
142    Swaziland                                      18     2007
143    Cambodia                                       17     2007
144    Macedonia                                      17     2007
145    Jordan                                         17     2007
146    Bangladesh                                     16     2007
147    Guinea                                         16     2007
148    Cyprus                                         16     2007
149    Marshall Islands                               15     2007
150    Seychelles                                     15     2007
151    Greenland                                      14     2007
152    Slovenia                                       14     2007
153    Haiti                                          14     2007
154    Djibouti                                       13     2007
155    Armenia                                        12     2007
156    Ghana                                          12     2007
157    Albania                                        11     2007
158    Kosovo                                         10     2008
159    Moldova                                        10     2007
160    Sierra Leone                                   10     2007
161    Cook Islands                                    9     2007
162    Rwanda                                          9     2007
163    Western Sahara                                  9     2007
164    Togo                                            9     2007
165    Burundi                                         8     2007
166    Cape Verde                                      8     2007
167    Singapore                                       8     2007
168    Turks and Caicos Islands                        8     2007
169    Timor-Leste                                     8     2007
170    Kuwait                                          7     2007
171    Lebanon                                         7     2007
172    Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)                6    2007
173    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines                6     2007
174    Tonga                                           6     2007
175    Trinidad and Tobago                             6     2007
176    Micronesia, Federated States of                 6     2007
177    Benin                                           5     2007
178    Equatorial Guinea                               5     2007
179    Northern Mariana Islands                        5     2007
180    Mauritius                                       5     2007
181    Netherlands Antilles                            5     2007
182    Qatar                                           5     2007
183    Maldives                                        5     2007
184    Montenegro                                      5     2007
185    Guam                                            5     2007
186    Comoros                                         4     2007
187    French Southern and Antarctic Lands                4  2006
188    Samoa                                           4     2007
189    Svalbard                                        4     2007
190    Antigua and Barbuda                             3     2007
191    West Bank                                       3     2007
192    British Virgin Islands                          3     2007
193    Palau                                           3     2007
194    Spratly Islands                                 3     2007
195    Grenada                                         3     2007
196    Bahrain                                         3     2007
197    Anguilla                                        3     2007
198    American Samoa                                  3     2007
199    Cayman Islands                                  3     2007
200    Bhutan                                          2     2007
201    Luxembourg                                      2     2007
202    Wallis and Futuna                               2     2007
203    Virgin Islands                                  2     2007
204    Sao Tome and Principe                           2     2007
205    Saint Lucia                                     2     2007
206    Saint Kitts and Nevis                           2     2007
207    Saint Pierre and Miquelon                       2     2007
208    Montserrat                                      2     2007
209    Hong Kong                                       2     2007
210    Brunei                                          2     2007
211    Dominica                                        2     2007
212    Gaza Strip                                      2     2007
213    Guernsey                                        2     2007
214    Aruba                                           1     2007
215    Barbados                                        1     2007
216    Wake Island                                     1     2007
217    Tuvalu                                          1     2007
218    Saint Barthelemy                                1
219    Saint Helena                                    1     2007
220    Saint Martin                                    1
221    Paracel Islands                                 1     2007
222    Nauru                                           1     2007
223    Norfolk Island                                  1     2007
224    Niue                                            1     2007
225    Malta                                           1     2007
226    Mayotte                                         1     2007
227    Macau                                           1     2007
228    Christmas Island                                1     2007
229    Jan Mayen                                       1     2007
230    Jersey                                          1     2007
231    British Indian Ocean Territory                  1     2007
232    Isle of Man                                     1     2007
233    Gibraltar                                       1     2007
234    Gambia, The                                     1     2007
235    Faroe Islands                                   1     2007
236    Cocos (Keeling) Islands                         1     2007
237    Bermuda                                         1     2007

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2054

Rank   Country                           Birth rate(births/1,000 population)  Date of Information

1      Niger                                 49.62           2008 est.
2      Mali                                  49.38           2008 est.
3      Uganda                                48.15           2008 est.
4      Afghanistan                           45.82           2008 est.
5      Sierra Leone                          45.08           2008 est.
6      Burkina Faso                          44.68           2008 est.
7      Somalia                               44.12           2008 est.
8      Angola                                44.09           2008 est.
9      Ethiopia                              43.97           2008 est.
10     Congo, Democratic Republic of the      43.00          2008 est.
11     Liberia                               42.92           2008 est.
12     Yemen                                 42.42           2008 est.
13     Malawi                                41.79           2008 est.
14     Congo, Republic of the                41.76           2008 est.
15     Burundi                               41.72           2008 est.
16     Chad                                  41.61           2008 est.
17     Zambia                                40.52           2008 est.
18     Mauritania                            40.14           2008 est.
19     Rwanda                                39.97           2008 est.
20     Western Sahara                        39.95           2008 est.
21     Benin                                 39.80           2008 est.
22     Mayotte                               39.79           2008 est.
23     Sao Tome and Principe                 39.12           2008 est.
24     Djibouti                              38.61           2008 est.
25     Madagascar                            38.38           2008 est.
26     Gambia, The                           38.36           2008 est.
27     Mozambique                            38.21           2008 est.
28     Kenya                                 37.89           2008 est.
29     Guinea                                37.84           2008 est.
30     Gaza Strip                            37.75           2008 est.
31     Nigeria                               37.23           2008 est.
32     Equatorial Guinea                     37.04           2008 est.
33     Togo                                  36.66           2008 est.
34     Senegal                               36.52           2008 est.
35     Guinea-Bissau                         36.40           2008 est.
36     Comoros                               35.78           2008 est.
37     Gabon                                 35.75           2008 est.
38     Haiti                                 35.69           2008 est.
39     Oman                                  35.26           2008 est.
40     Tanzania                              35.12           2008 est.
41     Eritrea                               34.94           2008 est.
42     Cameroon                              34.59           2008 est.
43     Laos                                  34.46           2008 est.
44     Sudan                                 34.31           2008 est.
45     Central African Republic              33.13           2008 est.
46     Cote d'Ivoire                         32.73           2008 est.
47     Zimbabwe                              31.62           2008 est.
48     Marshall Islands                      31.52           2008 est.
49     Iraq                                  30.77           2008 est.
50     Kiribati                              30.31           2008 est.
51     Nepal                                 29.92           2008 est.
52     Ghana                                 29.22           2008 est.
53     Bangladesh                            28.86           2008 est.
54     Saudi Arabia                          28.85           2008 est.
55     Guatemala                             28.55           2008 est.
56     Solomon Islands                       28.48           2008 est.
57     Paraguay                              28.47           2008 est.
58     Pakistan                              28.35           2008 est.
59     Samoa                                 28.20           2008 est.
60     Papua New Guinea                      28.14           2008 est.
61     Belize                                27.84           2008 est.
62     Tajikistan                            27.18           2008 est.
63     Honduras                              26.93           2008 est.
64     Swaziland                             26.60           2008 est.
65     Syria                                 26.57           2008 est.
66     Timor-Leste                           26.52           2008 est.
67     Philippines                           26.42           2008 est.
68     West Bank                             25.95           2008 est.
69     El Salvador                           25.72           2008 est.
70     Cambodia                              25.68           2008 est.
71     Libya                                 25.62           2008 est.
72     Turkmenistan                          25.07           2008 est.
73     Lesotho                               24.41           2008 est.
74     Nauru                                 24.26           2008 est.
75     Cape Verde                            23.95           2008 est.
76     Nicaragua                             23.70           2008 est.
77     American Samoa                        23.66           2008 est.
78     Micronesia, Federated States of       23.66           2008 est.
79     Kyrgyzstan                            23.31           2008 est.
80     Namibia                               23.19           2008 est.
81     Botswana                              22.96           2008 est.
82     Tuvalu                                22.75           2008 est.
83     Dominican Republic                    22.65           2008 est.
84     Malaysia                              22.44           2008 est.
85     Bolivia                               22.31           2008 est.
86     India                                 22.22           2008 est.
87     Fiji                                  22.15           2008 est.
88     Egypt                                 22.12           2008 est.
89     Vanuatu                               21.95           2008 est.
90     Kuwait                                21.90           2008 est.
91     Tonga                                 21.81           2008 est.
92     Grenada                               21.61           2008 est.
93     Ecuador                               21.54           2008 est.
94     Morocco                               21.31           2008 est.
95     Turks and Caicos Islands              21.12           2008 est.
96     Mongolia                              21.09           2008 est.
97     Venezuela                             20.92           2008 est.
98     Panama                                20.68           2008 est.
99     Bhutan                                20.56           2008 est.
100    South Africa                          20.23           2008 est.
101    World                                 20.18           2008 est.
102    Jordan                                20.13           2008 est.
103    Jamaica                               20.04           2008 est.
104    Mexico                                20.04           2008 est.
105    Israel                                20.02           2008 est.
106    Colombia                              19.86           2008 est.
107    Peru                                  19.77           2008 est.
108    Indonesia                             19.24           2008 est.
109    Northern Mariana Islands              19.04           2008 est.
110    Brazil                                18.72           2008 est.
111    Brunei                                18.39           2008 est.
112    Guam                                  18.37           2008 est.
113    Argentina                             18.11           2008 est.
114    Uzbekistan                            17.99           2008 est.
115    Guyana                                17.85           2008 est.
116    Saint Kitts and Nevis                 17.73           2008 est.
117    Costa Rica                            17.71           2008 est.
118    Lebanon                               17.61           2008 est.
119    Azerbaijan                            17.52           2008 est.
120    Palau                                 17.40           2008 est.
121    New Caledonia                         17.39           2008 est.
122    Bahrain                               17.26           2008 est.
123    Burma                                 17.23           2008 est.
124    Bahamas, The                          17.06           2008 est.
125    Algeria                               17.03           2008 est.
126    Suriname                              17.02           2008 est.
127    Iran                                  16.89           2008 est.
128    Antigua and Barbuda                   16.78           2008 est.
129    Cook Islands                          16.71           2008 est.
130    Sri Lanka                             16.63           2008 est.
131    Vietnam                               16.47           2008 est.
132    Kazakhstan                            16.44           2008 est.
133    French Polynesia                      16.16           2008 est.
134    Turkey                                16.15           2008 est.
135    United Arab Emirates                  16.06           2008 est.
136    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines      15.82           2008 est.
137    Dominica                              15.73           2008 est.
138    Qatar                                 15.69           2008 est.
139    Seychelles                            15.60           2008 est.
140    Tunisia                               15.50           2008 est.
141    Saint Lucia                           15.40           2008 est.
142    Albania                               15.22           2008 est.
143    Greenland                             14.87           2008 est.
144    Maldives                              14.84           2008 est.
145    Chile                                 14.82           2008 est.
146    British Virgin Islands                14.72           2008 est.
147    Mauritius                             14.64           2008 est.
148    Korea, North                          14.61           2008 est.
149    Netherlands Antilles                  14.37           2008 est.
150    Ireland                               14.33           2008 est.
151    United States                         14.18           2008 est.
152    Uruguay                               14.17           2008 est.
153    New Zealand                           14.09           2008 est.
154    China                                 13.71           2008 est.
155    Thailand                              13.57           2008 est.
156    Iceland                               13.50           2008 est.
157    Faroe Islands                         13.25           2008 est.
158    Trinidad and Tobago                   13.22           2008 est.
159    Anguilla                              13.11           2008 est.
160    Saint Pierre and Miquelon             12.92           2008 est.
161    Aruba                                 12.81           2008 est.
162    France                                12.73           2008 est.
163    Puerto Rico                           12.61           2008 est.
164    Cyprus                                12.56           2008 est.
165    Australia                             12.55           2008 est.
166    Armenia                               12.53           2008 est.
167    Barbados                              12.48           2008 est.
168    Cayman Islands                        12.43           2008 est.
169    Virgin Islands                        12.29           2008 est.
170    Montserrat                            12.01           2008 est.
171    Macedonia                             12.00           2008 est.
172    Luxembourg                            11.77           2008 est.
173    Saint Helena                          11.45           2008 est.
174    Cuba                                  11.27           2008 est.
175    Montenegro                            11.17           2008 est.
176    Bermuda                               11.15           2008 est.
177    Norway                                11.12           2008 est.
178    Russia                                11.03           2008 est.
179    Moldova                               11.01           2008 est.
180    Isle of Man                           10.86           2008 est.
181    Denmark                               10.71           2008 est.
182    Gibraltar                             10.71           2008 est.
183    United Kingdom                        10.65           2008 est.
184    Slovakia                              10.64           2008 est.
185    Georgia                               10.62           2008 est.
186    Romania                               10.61           2008 est.
187    Andorra                               10.59           2008 est.
188    Netherlands                           10.53           2008 est.
189    Portugal                              10.45           2008 est.
190    Finland                               10.39           2008 est.
191    Malta                                 10.33           2008 est.
192    Canada                                10.29           2008 est.
193    Estonia                               10.28           2008 est.
194    European Union                        10.25           2008 est.
195    Belgium                               10.22           2008 est.
196    Sweden                                10.15           2008 est.
197    Poland                                10.01           2008 est.
198    Spain                                  9.87           2008 est.
199    Liechtenstein                          9.86           2008 est.
200    San Marino                             9.74           2008 est.
201    Croatia                                9.64           2008 est.
202    Belarus                                9.62           2008 est.
203    Switzerland                            9.62           2008 est.
204    Latvia                                 9.62           2008 est.
205    Hungary                                9.59           2008 est.
206    Bulgaria                               9.58           2008 est.
207    Ukraine                                9.55           2008 est.
208    Greece                                 9.54           2008 est.
209    Korea, South                           9.09           2008 est.
210    Monaco                                 9.09           2008 est.
211    Lithuania                              9.00           2008 est.
212    Slovenia                               8.99           2008 est.
213    Taiwan                                 8.99           2008 est.
214    Singapore                              8.99           2008 est.
215    Czech Republic                         8.89           2008 est.
216    Jersey                                 8.84           2008 est.
217    Bosnia and Herzegovina                 8.82           2008 est.
218    Macau                                  8.69           2008 est.
219    Austria                                8.66           2008 est.
220    Guernsey                               8.57           2008 est.
221    Italy                                  8.36           2008 est.
222    Germany                                8.18           2008 est.
223    Japan                                  7.87           2008 est.
224    Hong Kong                              7.37           2008 est.

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2066

Rank   Country                           Death rate(deaths/1,000 population)  Date of Information

1      Swaziland                             30.70           2008 est.
2      Angola                                24.44           2008 est.
3      Lesotho                               22.33           2008 est.
4      Sierra Leone                          22.26           2008 est.
5      Liberia                               21.45           2008 est.
6      Zambia                                21.35           2008 est.
7      Mozambique                            20.29           2008 est.
8      Niger                                 20.26           2008 est.
9      Afghanistan                           19.56           2008 est.
10     Djibouti                              19.16           2008 est.
11     Central African Republic              18.04           2008 est.
12     Malawi                                17.89           2008 est.
13     Zimbabwe                              17.29           2008 est.
14     South Africa                          16.94           2008 est.
15     Nigeria                               16.88           2008 est.
16     Chad                                  16.39           2008 est.
17     Mali                                  16.16           2008 est.
18     Russia                                16.06           2008 est.
19     Guinea-Bissau                         16.05           2008 est.
20     Ukraine                               15.93           2008 est.
21     Somalia                               15.89           2008 est.
22     Rwanda                                14.46           2008 est.
23     Bulgaria                              14.30           2008 est.
24     Namibia                               14.07           2008 est.
25     Botswana                              14.02           2008 est.
26     Belarus                               13.92           2008 est.
27     Sudan                                 13.64           2008 est.
28     Latvia                                13.63           2008 est.
29     Burkina Faso                          13.59           2008 est.
30     Estonia                               13.35           2008 est.
31     Hungary                               12.99           2008 est.
32     Monaco                                12.96           2008 est.
33     Tanzania                              12.92           2008 est.
34     Burundi                               12.91           2008 est.
35     Gabon                                 12.59           2008 est.
36     Cameroon                              12.41           2008 est.
37     Uganda                                12.32           2008 est.
38     Congo, Republic of the                12.28           2008 est.
39     Congo, Democratic Republic of the      11.88          2008 est.
40     Romania                               11.84           2008 est.
41     Ethiopia                              11.83           2008 est.
42     Gambia, The                           11.74           2008 est.
43     Western Sahara                        11.74           2008 est.
44     Croatia                               11.66           2008 est.
45     Mauritania                            11.61           2008 est.
46     Guinea                                11.29           2008 est.
47     Cote d'Ivoire                         11.17           2008 est.
48     Lithuania                             11.12           2008 est.
49     Isle of Man                           11.02           2008 est.
50     Laos                                  11.02           2008 est.
51     Trinidad and Tobago                   10.93           2008 est.
52     Germany                               10.80           2008 est.
53     Moldova                               10.80           2008 est.
54     Senegal                               10.72           2008 est.
55     Czech Republic                        10.69           2008 est.
56     Portugal                              10.62           2008 est.
57     Italy                                 10.61           2008 est.
58     Slovenia                              10.51           2008 est.
59     Greece                                10.42           2008 est.
60     European Union                        10.39           2008 est.
61     Belgium                               10.38           2008 est.
62     Kenya                                 10.30           2008 est.
63     Denmark                               10.25           2008 est.
64     Sweden                                10.24           2008 est.
65     Haiti                                 10.15           2008 est.
66     Guernsey                              10.09           2008 est.
67     United Kingdom                        10.05           2008 est.
68     Finland                               10.00           2008 est.
69     Poland                                 9.99           2008 est.
70     Austria                                9.91           2008 est.
71     Spain                                  9.90           2008 est.
72     Equatorial Guinea                      9.72           2008 est.
73     Benin                                  9.69           2008 est.
74     Georgia                                9.51           2008 est.
75     Slovakia                               9.50           2008 est.
76     Togo                                   9.48           2008 est.
77     Gibraltar                              9.46           2008 est.
78     Ghana                                  9.39           2008 est.
79     Kazakhstan                             9.39           2008 est.
80     Jersey                                 9.36           2008 est.
81     Norway                                 9.33           2008 est.
82     Japan                                  9.26           2008 est.
83     Burma                                  9.23           2008 est.
84     Bahamas, The                           9.22           2008 est.
85     Uruguay                                9.12           2008 est.
86     Nepal                                  8.97           2008 est.
87     Montserrat                             8.86           2008 est.
88     Macedonia                              8.81           2008 est.
89     Netherlands                            8.71           2008 est.
90     Faroe Islands                          8.67           2008 est.
91     Eritrea                                8.63           2008 est.
92     Barbados                               8.58           2008 est.
93     Bosnia and Herzegovina                 8.54           2008 est.
94     Switzerland                            8.54           2008 est.
95     Montenegro                             8.51           2008 est.
96     France                                 8.48           2008 est.
97     Luxembourg                             8.43           2008 est.
98     San Marino                             8.37           2008 est.
99     Armenia                                8.34           2008 est.
100    Azerbaijan                             8.32           2008 est.
101    Madagascar                             8.32           2008 est.
102    Dominica                               8.32           2008 est.
103    Guyana                                 8.29           2008 est.
104    Malta                                  8.29           2008 est.
105    United States                          8.27           2008 est.
106    Greenland                              8.23           2008 est.
107    World                                  8.23           2008 est.
108    Saint Kitts and Nevis                  8.19           2008 est.
109    Cambodia                               8.16           2008 est.
110    Bangladesh                             8.00           2008 est.
111    Bermuda                                7.98           2008 est.
112    Kiribati                               7.97           2008 est.
113    Puerto Rico                            7.88           2008 est.
114    Pakistan                               7.85           2008 est.
115    Yemen                                  7.83           2008 est.
116    Ireland                                7.77           2008 est.
117    Comoros                                7.76           2008 est.
118    Cyprus                                 7.76           2008 est.
119    Aruba                                  7.65           2008 est.
120    Canada                                 7.61           2008 est.
121    Vanuatu                                7.61           2008 est.
122    Bhutan                                 7.54           2008 est.
123    Argentina                              7.43           2008 est.
124    Liechtenstein                          7.42           2008 est.
125    Mayotte                                7.36           2008 est.
126    Bolivia                                7.35           2008 est.
127    Korea, North                           7.29           2008 est.
128    Cuba                                   7.19           2008 est.
129    Thailand                               7.17           2008 est.
130    China                                  7.03           2008 est.
131    New Zealand                            7.00           2008 est.
132    Tuvalu                                 6.98           2008 est.
133    Kyrgyzstan                             6.97           2008 est.
134    Papua New Guinea                       6.96           2008 est.
135    Tajikistan                             6.94           2008 est.
136    Iceland                                6.81           2008 est.
137    Saint Pierre and Miquelon              6.81           2008 est.
138    Palau                                  6.73           2008 est.
139    Saint Lucia                            6.71           2008 est.
140    Australia                              6.68           2008 est.
141    Taiwan                                 6.65           2008 est.
142    Hong Kong                              6.60           2008 est.
143    Saint Helena                           6.58           2008 est.
144    Mauritius                              6.55           2008 est.
145    Virgin Islands                         6.55           2008 est.
146    Nauru                                  6.54           2008 est.
147    Netherlands Antilles                   6.43           2008 est.
148    India                                  6.40           2008 est.
149    Jamaica                                6.37           2008 est.
150    Brazil                                 6.35           2008 est.
151    Grenada                                6.31           2008 est.
152    Cape Verde                             6.26           2008 est.
153    Indonesia                              6.24           2008 est.
154    Seychelles                             6.21           2008 est.
155    Vietnam                                6.18           2008 est.
156    Mongolia                               6.16           2008 est.
157    Peru                                   6.16           2008 est.
158    Antigua and Barbuda                    6.14           2008 est.
159    Turkmenistan                           6.11           2008 est.
160    Sri Lanka                              6.07           2008 est.
161    Lebanon                                6.06           2008 est.
162    Timor-Leste                            6.02           2008 est.
163    Turkey                                 6.02           2008 est.
164    Sao Tome and Principe                  5.98           2008 est.
165    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines       5.96           2008 est.
166    Samoa                                  5.84           2008 est.
167    Belize                                 5.77           2008 est.
168    Chile                                  5.77           2008 est.
169    Korea, South                           5.73           2008 est.
170    Iran                                   5.69           2008 est.
171    Fiji                                   5.66           2008 est.
172    New Caledonia                          5.64           2008 est.
173    Andorra                                5.59           2008 est.
174    Colombia                               5.54           2008 est.
175    El Salvador                            5.53           2008 est.
176    Suriname                               5.51           2008 est.
177    Morocco                                5.49           2008 est.
178    Albania                                5.44           2008 est.
179    Israel                                 5.41           2008 est.
180    Honduras                               5.36           2008 est.
181    Dominican Republic                     5.30           2008 est.
182    Uzbekistan                             5.30           2008 est.
183    Guatemala                              5.19           2008 est.
184    Tunisia                                5.17           2008 est.
185    Philippines                            5.15           2008 est.
186    Iraq                                   5.14           2008 est.
187    Tonga                                  5.12           2008 est.
188    Venezuela                              5.10           2008 est.
189    Egypt                                  5.09           2008 est.
190    Malaysia                               5.02           2008 est.
191    Cayman Islands                         4.83           2008 est.
192    Mexico                                 4.78           2008 est.
193    Panama                                 4.71           2008 est.
194    Syria                                  4.68           2008 est.
195    French Polynesia                       4.67           2008 est.
196    Guam                                   4.65           2008 est.
197    Algeria                                4.62           2008 est.
198    Marshall Islands                       4.57           2008 est.
199    Micronesia, Federated States of        4.53           2008 est.
200    Singapore                              4.53           2008 est.
201    Paraguay                               4.49           2008 est.
202    Anguilla                               4.39           2008 est.
203    British Virgin Islands                 4.37           2008 est.
204    Nicaragua                              4.33           2008 est.
205    Costa Rica                             4.31           2008 est.
206    Bahrain                                4.29           2008 est.
207    Ecuador                                4.21           2008 est.
208    Turks and Caicos Islands               4.16           2008 est.
209    American Samoa                         4.13           2008 est.
210    Solomon Islands                        3.81           2008 est.
211    West Bank                              3.70           2008 est.
212    Oman                                   3.68           2008 est.
213    Maldives                               3.66           2008 est.
214    Gaza Strip                             3.53           2008 est.
215    Libya                                  3.46           2008 est.
216    Macau                                  3.43           2008 est.
217    Brunei                                 3.28           2008 est.
218    Jordan                                 2.72           2008 est.
219    Saudi Arabia                           2.49           2008 est.
220    Qatar                                  2.47           2008 est.
221    Kuwait                                 2.37           2008 est.
222    Northern Mariana Islands               2.31           2008 est.
223    United Arab Emirates                   2.13           2008 est.

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2067

Rank   Country                           Death rate(deaths/1,000 population)  Date of Information


 This file was last updated on 3 October, 2007




======================================================================




Rank code: @2078

Rank   Country                           Exports             Date of Information

1      World                             $   13,890,000,000,000  2006 est.
2      Germany                           $    1,354,000,000,000  2007 est.
3      European Union                    $    1,330,000,000,000  2005
4      China                             $    1,220,000,000,000  2007 est.
5      United States                     $    1,148,000,000,000  2007 est.
6      Japan                             $     678,100,000,000  2007 est.
7      France                            $     546,000,000,000  2007 est.
8      Italy                             $     502,400,000,000  2007 est.
9      Netherlands                       $     456,800,000,000  2007 est.
10     United Kingdom                    $     442,200,000,000  2007 est.
11     Canada                            $     431,100,000,000  2007 est.
12     Korea, South                      $     379,000,000,000  2007 est.
13     Russia                            $     355,500,000,000  2007 est.
14     Hong Kong                         $     345,900,000,000  2007 est.
15     Belgium                           $     322,200,000,000  2007 est.
16     Singapore                         $     302,700,000,000  2007 est.
17     Mexico                            $     271,900,000,000  2007 est.
18     Spain                             $     256,700,000,000  2007 est.
19     Taiwan                            $     246,500,000,000  2007 est.
20     Saudi Arabia                      $     226,700,000,000  2007 est.
21     Switzerland                       $     200,100,000,000  2007 est.
22     United Arab Emirates              $     178,900,000,000  2007 est.
23     Malaysia                          $     176,400,000,000  2007 est.
24     Sweden                            $     170,100,000,000  2007 est.
25     Austria                           $     162,100,000,000  2007 est.
26     Brazil                            $     160,600,000,000  2007 est.
27     India                             $     151,300,000,000  2007 est.
28     Thailand                          $     151,100,000,000  2007 est.
29     Poland                            $     144,600,000,000  2007 est.
30     Australia                         $     142,100,000,000  2007 est.
31     Norway                            $     140,300,000,000  2007 est.
32     Czech Republic                    $     122,300,000,000  2007 est.
33     Indonesia                         $     118,000,000,000  2007 est.
34     Ireland                           $     115,500,000,000  2007 est.
35     Turkey                            $     115,300,000,000  2007 est.
36     Denmark                           $     101,200,000,000  2007 est.
37     Finland                           $      89,910,000,000  2007 est.
38     Iran                              $      88,260,000,000  2007 est.
39     Hungary                           $      87,770,000,000  2007 est.
40     South Africa                      $      76,190,000,000  2007 est.
41     Venezuela                         $      69,170,000,000  2007 est.
42     Chile                             $      67,640,000,000  2007 est.
43     Kuwait                            $      63,720,000,000  2007 est.
44     Nigeria                           $      61,790,000,000  2007 est.
45     Algeria                           $      60,510,000,000  2007 est.
46     Slovakia                          $      57,530,000,000  2007 est.
47     Argentina                         $      55,780,000,000  2007 est.
48     Portugal                          $      51,500,000,000  2007 est.
49     Israel                            $      50,370,000,000  2007 est.
50     Ukraine                           $      49,840,000,000  2007 est.
51     Philippines                       $      49,320,000,000  2007 est.
52     Vietnam                           $      48,560,000,000  2007 est.
53     Kazakhstan                        $      48,350,000,000  2007 est.
54     Puerto Rico                       $      46,900,000,000  2001
55     Angola                            $      45,030,000,000  2007 est.
56     Libya                             $      42,970,000,000  2007 est.
57     Qatar                             $      42,020,000,000  2007 est.
58     Romania                           $      40,320,000,000  2007 est.
59     Iraq                              $      38,140,000,000  2007 est.
60     Colombia                          $      30,580,000,000  2007 est.
61     Peru                              $      27,960,000,000  2007 est.
62     New Zealand                       $      27,350,000,000  2007 est.
63     Slovenia                          $      27,060,000,000  2007 est.
64     Belarus                           $      24,470,000,000  2007 est.
65     Egypt                             $      24,450,000,000  2007 est.
66     Greece                            $      23,910,000,000  2007 est.
67     Oman                              $      23,100,000,000  2007 est.
68     Azerbaijan                        $      21,270,000,000  2007 est.
69     Bulgaria                          $      18,440,000,000  2007 est.
70     Luxembourg                        $      18,420,000,000  2007 est.
71     Pakistan                          $      18,120,000,000  2007 est.
72     Lithuania                         $      17,180,000,000  2007 est.
73     Tunisia                           $      15,150,000,000  2007 est.
74     Ecuador                           $      14,370,000,000  2007 est.
75     Bahrain                           $      13,790,000,000  2007 est.
76     Trinidad and Tobago               $      13,390,000,000  2007 est.
77     Morocco                           $      12,750,000,000  2007 est.
78     Croatia                           $      12,620,000,000  2007 est.
79     Bangladesh                        $      12,450,000,000  2007 est.
80     Syria                             $      11,140,000,000  2007 est.
81     Estonia                           $      11,080,000,000  2007 est.
82     Equatorial Guinea                 $       9,904,000,000  2007 est.
83     Panama                            $       9,312,000,000  2007 est.
84     Costa Rica                        $       9,268,000,000  2007 est.
85     Sudan                             $       8,879,000,000  2007 est.
86     Serbia                            $       8,824,000,000  2007 est.
87     Cote d'Ivoire                     $       8,476,000,000  2007 est.
88     Latvia                            $       8,143,000,000  2007 est.
89     Sri Lanka                         $       8,135,000,000  2007 est.
90     Uzbekistan                        $       8,050,000,000  2007 est.
91     Turkmenistan                      $       7,567,000,000  2007 est.
92     Yemen                             $       7,311,000,000  2007 est.
93     Dominican Republic                $       7,237,000,000  2007 est.
94     Gabon                             $       6,956,000,000  2007 est.
95     Guatemala                         $       6,940,000,000  2007 est.
96     Brunei                            $       6,767,000,000  2006
97     Burma                             $       6,122,000,000  2007 est.
98     Congo, Republic of the            $       5,800,000,000  2007 est.
99     Jordan                            $       5,700,000,000  2007 est.
100    Honduras                          $       5,594,000,000  2007 est.
101    Paraguay                          $       5,463,000,000  2007 est.
102    Uruguay                           $       5,063,000,000  2007 est.
103    Botswana                          $       5,025,000,000  2007 est.
104    Iceland                           $       4,793,000,000  2007 est.
105    Papua New Guinea                  $       4,686,000,000  2007 est.
106    Zambia                            $       4,594,000,000  2007 est.
107    Bolivia                           $       4,490,000,000  2007 est.
108    Bosnia and Herzegovina            $       4,243,000,000  2007 est.
109    Virgin Islands                    $       4,234,000,000  2001
110    Chad                              $       4,201,000,000  2007 est.
111    Ghana                             $       4,162,000,000  2007 est.
112    Kenya                             $       4,127,000,000  2007 est.
113    Cambodia                          $       4,089,000,000  2007 est.
114    Lebanon                           $       4,077,000,000  2007 est.
115    El Salvador                       $       4,035,000,000  2007 est.
116    Cameroon                          $       3,827,000,000  2007 est.
117    Cuba                              $       3,734,000,000  2007 est.
118    Netherlands Antilles              $       3,710,000,000  2006
119    Macedonia                         $       3,350,000,000  2007 est.
120    Malta                             $       3,238,000,000  2007 est.
121    Namibia                           $       2,919,000,000  2007 est.
122    Macau                             $       2,557,000,000  2006
123    Liechtenstein                     $       2,470,000,000  1996
124    Mozambique                        $       2,412,000,000  2007 est.
125    Jamaica                           $       2,331,000,000  2007 est.
126    Nicaragua                         $       2,313,000,000  2007 est.
127    Mauritius                         $       2,231,000,000  2007 est.
128    Tanzania                          $       2,227,000,000  2007 est.
129    Georgia                           $       2,104,000,000  2007 est.
130    Swaziland                         $       1,926,000,000  2007 est.
131    Mongolia                          $       1,889,000,000  2007
132    Uganda                            $       1,686,000,000  2007 est.
133    Senegal                           $       1,650,000,000  2007 est.
134    Tajikistan                        $       1,606,000,000  2007 est.
135    Congo, Democratic Republic of the  $       1,587,000,000  2006
136    Zimbabwe                          $       1,520,000,000  2007 est.
137    Cyprus                            $       1,495,000,000  2007 est.
138    Korea, North                      $       1,466,000,000  2006
139    Mauritania                        $       1,395,000,000  2006
140    Suriname                          $       1,391,000,000  2006 est.
141    Moldova                           $       1,361,000,000  2007 est.
142    New Caledonia                     $       1,341,000,000  2006
143    Kyrgyzstan                        $       1,337,000,000  2007 est.
144    San Marino                        $       1,291,000,000  2004
145    Ethiopia                          $       1,288,000,000  2007 est.
146    Fiji                              $       1,202,000,000  2006
147    Armenia                           $       1,200,000,000  2007 est.
148    Liberia                           $       1,197,000,000  2006
149    Guinea                            $       1,128,000,000  2007 est.
150    Albania                           $       1,076,000,000  2007 est.
151    Madagascar                        $        986,000,000  2007 est.
152    Laos                              $        970,000,000  2007 est.
153    Lesotho                           $        853,000,000  2007 est.
154    Nepal                             $        830,000,000  2006
155    Bermuda                           $        763,000,000  2006
156    Monaco                            $        716,300,000  2005
157    Togo                              $        702,000,000  2007 est.
158    Guyana                            $        683,000,000  2007 est.
159    Bahamas, The                      $        674,000,000  2006
160    Faroe Islands                     $        634,000,000  2006
161    Burkina Faso                      $        617,000,000  2007 est.
162    Malawi                            $        604,000,000  2007 est.
163    Benin                             $        586,000,000  2007 est.
164    Haiti                             $        522,000,000  2007 est.
165    Greenland                         $        480,000,000  2006
166    American Samoa                    $        445,600,000  FY04 est.
167    Belize                            $        429,000,000  2007 est.
168    Niger                             $        428,000,000  2006
169    Seychelles                        $        395,000,000  2007 est.
170    Barbados                          $        385,000,000  2006
171    Bhutan                            $        350,000,000  2006
172    Djibouti                          $        340,000,000  2006
173    Gaza Strip                        $        301,000,000  2005
174    West Bank                         $        301,000,000  2005
175    Somalia                           $        300,000,000  2006
176    Mali                              $        294,000,000  2006
177    Saint Lucia                       $        288,000,000  2006
178    Afghanistan                       $        274,000,000  2006
179    Gibraltar                         $        271,000,000  2004 est.
180    Solomon Islands                   $        237,000,000  2006
181    Sierra Leone                      $        216,000,000  2006
182    French Polynesia                  $        211,000,000  2005 est.
183    Svalbard                          $        197,600,000  2004
184    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines  $        193,000,000  2006
185    Rwanda                            $        184,000,000  2007 est.
186    Montenegro                        $        171,300,000  2003
187    Turks and Caicos Islands          $        169,200,000  2000
188    Maldives                          $        167,000,000  2006
189    Andorra                           $        148,700,000  2005
190    Kosovo                            $        148,400,000  2007
191    Central African Republic          $        146,700,000  2007 est.
192    Guinea-Bissau                     $        133,000,000  2006
193    Samoa                             $        131,000,000  2006
194    Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)  $        125,000,000  2004 est.
195    Aruba                             $        124,000,000  2006
196    Dominica                          $         94,000,000  2006
197    Gambia, The                       $         88,000,000  2007 est.
198    Antigua and Barbuda               $         84,300,000  2007 est.
199    Saint Kitts and Nevis             $         84,000,000  2006
200    Cape Verde                        $         76,500,000  2007 est.
201    Guam                              $         45,000,000  2004 est.
202    Burundi                           $         44,000,000  2007 est.
203    Vanuatu                           $         40,000,000  2006
204    Grenada                           $         38,000,000  2006
205    Comoros                           $         32,000,000  2006
206    British Virgin Islands            $         25,300,000  2002
207    Tonga                             $         22,000,000  2006
208    Saint Helena                      $         19,000,000  2004 est.
209    Kiribati                          $         17,000,000  2004 est.
210    Micronesia, Federated States of   $         14,000,000  2004 est.
211    Anguilla                          $         13,000,000  2006
212    Eritrea                           $         12,000,000  2007 est.
213    Timor-Leste                       $         10,000,000  2005 est.
214    Marshall Islands                  $          9,100,000  2000
215    Sao Tome and Principe             $          9,000,000  2007 est.
216    Mayotte                           $          6,500,000  2005
217    Palau                             $          5,882,000  2004 est.
218    Saint Pierre and Miquelon         $          5,500,000  2005 est.
219    Cook Islands                      $          5,222,000  2005
220    Cayman Islands                    $          2,520,000  2004
221    Norfolk Island                    $          1,500,000  FY91/92
222    Tuvalu                            $          1,000,000  2004 est.
223    Montserrat                        $           700,000  2001
224    Niue                              $           201,400  2004
225    Nauru                             $            64,000  2005 est.
226    Wallis and Futuna                 $            47,450  2004
227    Tokelau                           $                0  2002

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2079

Rank   Country                           Debt - external     Date of Information

1      World                             $   51,780,000,000,000  2004 est.
2      United States                     $   12,250,000,000,000  30 June 2007
3      United Kingdom                    $   10,450,000,000,000  30 June 2007
4      Germany                           $    4,489,000,000,000  30 June 2007
5      France                            $    4,396,000,000,000  30 June 2007
6      Netherlands                       $    2,277,000,000,000  30 June 2007
7      Ireland                           $    1,841,000,000,000  30 June 2007
8      Japan                             $    1,492,000,000,000  30 June 2007
9      Switzerland                       $    1,340,000,000,000  30 June 2007
10     Belgium                           $    1,313,000,000,000  30 June 2007
11     Spain                             $    1,084,000,000,000  30 June 2007 est.
12     Italy                             $     996,300,000,000  31 December 2007
13     Australia                         $     826,400,000,000  31 December 2007
14     Canada                            $     758,600,000,000  30 June 2007
15     Austria                           $     752,500,000,000  30 June 2007
16     Sweden                            $     598,200,000,000  30 June 2006
17     Hong Kong                         $     588,000,000,000  2007 est.
18     Denmark                           $     492,600,000,000  30 June 2007
19     Norway                            $     469,100,000,000  30 June 2007
20     Portugal                          $     461,200,000,000  31 December 2007
21     China                             $     363,000,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
22     Russia                            $     356,500,000,000  31 December 2007
23     Finland                           $     271,200,000,000  30 June 2007
24     Turkey                            $     247,100,000,000  31 December 2007
25     Brazil                            $     229,400,000,000  31 December 2007
26     Korea, South                      $     220,100,000,000  31 December 2007
27     Mexico                            $     179,800,000,000  31 December 2007
28     Poland                            $     169,800,000,000  31 December 2007
29     India                             $     149,200,000,000  31 December 2007
30     Indonesia                         $     140,000,000,000  31 December 2007
31     Argentina                         $     135,800,000,000  31 December 2007
32     Hungary                           $     125,900,000,000  31 December 2007
33     Iraq                              $     100,900,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
34     Taiwan                            $      97,850,000,000  31 December 2007
35     Kazakhstan                        $      96,360,000,000  31 December 2007
36     Israel                            $      89,950,000,000  31 December 2007
37     Greece                            $      86,720,000,000  31 December 2007
38     Czech Republic                    $      74,700,000,000  31 December 2007
39     Romania                           $      74,540,000,000  31 December 2007
40     Ukraine                           $      69,040,000,000  31 December 2007
41     Philippines                       $      61,780,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
42     United Arab Emirates              $      61,680,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
43     Thailand                          $      59,520,000,000  31 December 2007
44     Saudi Arabia                      $      58,600,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
45     Chile                             $      57,600,000,000  31 December 2007
46     Malaysia                          $      53,090,000,000  31 December 2007
47     New Zealand                       $      51,440,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
48     Croatia                           $      46,300,000,000  30 June 2007
49     Venezuela                         $      43,330,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
50     Colombia                          $      41,390,000,000  30 June 2007
51     Slovenia                          $      40,420,000,000  30 June 2007
52     South Africa                      $      39,780,000,000  31 December 2007
53     Pakistan                          $      38,800,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
54     Slovakia                          $      36,630,000,000  31 December 2007
55     Bulgaria                          $      34,880,000,000  30 June 2007
56     Kuwait                            $      33,620,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
57     Latvia                            $      33,530,000,000  31 December 2007
58     Qatar                             $      33,090,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
59     Peru                              $      32,830,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
60     Lebanon                           $      31,600,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
61     Sudan                             $      29,420,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
62     Egypt                             $      29,200,000,000  30 June 2007
63     Lithuania                         $      27,190,000,000  31 December 2007
64     Cyprus                            $      26,970,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
65     Serbia                            $      26,240,000,000  2007 est.
66     Singapore                         $      25,590,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
67     Estonia                           $      24,820,000,000  30 June 2007
68     Vietnam                           $      21,830,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
69     Bangladesh                        $      21,230,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
70     Iran                              $      20,680,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
71     Morocco                           $      19,910,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
72     Tunisia                           $      19,270,000,000  December 2007
73     Monaco                            $      18,000,000,000  2000 est.
74     Ecuador                           $      17,120,000,000  31 December 2007
75     Cuba                              $      16,790,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
76     Cote d'Ivoire                     $      13,790,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
77     Korea, North                      $      12,500,000,000  2001 est.
78     Sri Lanka                         $      12,200,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
79     Uruguay                           $      11,420,000,000  31 December 2007
80     Panama                            $      10,450,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
81     Dominican Republic                $      10,210,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
82     Congo, Democratic Republic of the  $      10,000,000,000  2006 est.
83     Jamaica                           $       9,657,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
84     El Salvador                       $       9,574,000,000  December 2007
85     Angola                            $       8,357,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
86     Jordan                            $       8,133,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
87     Nigeria                           $       8,007,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
88     Afghanistan                       $       8,000,000,000  2004
89     Bahrain                           $       7,858,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
90     Costa Rica                        $       7,416,000,000  30 June 2007
91     Belarus                           $       7,347,000,000  31 December 2007
92     Burma                             $       7,022,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
93     Bosnia and Herzegovina            $       6,734,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
94     Kenya                             $       6,713,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
95     Syria                             $       6,633,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
96     Yemen                             $       6,044,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
97     Guatemala                         $       5,908,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
98     Oman                              $       5,297,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
99     Zimbabwe                          $       5,155,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
100    Congo, Republic of the            $       5,000,000,000  2000 est.
101    Gabon                             $       4,895,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
102    Ghana                             $       4,891,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
103    Libya                             $       4,837,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
104    Madagascar                        $       4,600,000,000  2002
105    Georgia                           $       4,500,000,000  2007
106    Bolivia                           $       4,495,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
107    Tanzania                          $       4,382,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
108    Mozambique                        $       4,189,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
109    Macedonia                         $       3,967,000,000  31 December 2007
110    Algeria                           $       3,957,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
111    Uzbekistan                        $       3,927,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
112    Cambodia                          $       3,890,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
113    Paraguay                          $       3,492,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
114    Honduras                          $       3,411,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
115    Guinea                            $       3,351,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
116    Nicaragua                         $       3,341,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
117    Moldova                           $       3,300,000,000  31 December 2007
118    Liberia                           $       3,200,000,000  2005 est.
119    Laos                              $       3,179,000,000  2006
120    Iceland                           $       3,073,000,000  2002
121    Nepal                             $       3,070,000,000  March 2006
122    Somalia                           $       3,000,000,000  2001 est.
123    Kyrgyzstan                        $       2,966,000,000  30 June 2007
124    Trinidad and Tobago               $       2,869,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
125    Mali                              $       2,800,000,000  2002
126    Netherlands Antilles              $       2,680,000,000  2004
127    Ethiopia                          $       2,621,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
128    Zambia                            $       2,596,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
129    Cameroon                          $       2,554,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
130    Azerbaijan                        $       2,439,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
131    Senegal                           $       2,190,000,000  31 December 2007
132    Mauritius                         $       2,149,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
133    Niger                             $       2,100,000,000  2003 est.
134    Togo                              $       2,000,000,000  2005
135    Papua New Guinea                  $       1,646,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
136    Sierra Leone                      $       1,610,000,000  2003 est.
137    Chad                              $       1,600,000,000  2005 est.
138    Tajikistan                        $       1,560,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
139    Albania                           $       1,550,000,000  2004
140    Uganda                            $       1,498,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
141    Haiti                             $       1,475,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
142    Mongolia                          $       1,438,000,000  2007
143    Rwanda                            $       1,400,000,000  2004 est.
144    Turkmenistan                      $       1,400,000,000  2004 est.
145    Armenia                           $       1,372,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
146    Burkina Faso                      $       1,330,000,000  2007
147    Belize                            $       1,200,000,000  June 2005 est.
148    Burundi                           $       1,200,000,000  2003
149    Guyana                            $       1,200,000,000  2002
150    Benin                             $       1,200,000,000  2007
151    Central African Republic          $       1,153,000,000  2007 est.
152    Seychelles                        $       1,059,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
153    Namibia                           $       1,003,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
154    Guinea-Bissau                     $        941,500,000  2000 est.
155    Malawi                            $        894,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
156    Bhutan                            $        713,300,000  2006
157    Lesotho                           $        689,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
158    Barbados                          $        668,000,000  2003
159    Montenegro                        $        650,000,000  2006
160    Gambia, The                       $        628,800,000  2003 est.
161    Swaziland                         $        524,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
162    Suriname                          $        504,300,000  2005 est.
163    Maldives                          $        482,000,000  2006 est.
164    Aruba                             $        478,600,000  2005 est.
165    Djibouti                          $        428,000,000  2006
166    Botswana                          $        408,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
167    Antigua and Barbuda               $        359,800,000  June 2006
168    Grenada                           $        347,000,000  2004
169    Bahamas, The                      $        342,600,000  2004 est.
170    Equatorial Guinea                 $        338,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
171    Cape Verde                        $        325,000,000  2002
172    Sao Tome and Principe             $        318,000,000  2002
173    Saint Kitts and Nevis             $        314,000,000  2004
174    Eritrea                           $        311,000,000  2000 est.
175    Saint Lucia                       $        257,000,000  2004
176    Comoros                           $        232,000,000  2000 est.
177    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines  $        223,000,000  2004
178    Dominica                          $        213,000,000  2004
179    Malta                             $        188,800,000  2005
180    Samoa                             $        177,000,000  2004
181    Solomon Islands                   $        166,000,000  2004
182    Bermuda                           $        160,000,000  FY99/00
183    Cook Islands                      $        141,000,000  1996 est.
184    Fiji                              $        127,000,000  2004 est.
185    Marshall Islands                  $         86,500,000  FY99/00 est.
186    Vanuatu                           $         81,200,000  2004
187    Tonga                             $         80,700,000  2004
188    New Caledonia                     $         79,000,000  1998 est.
189    Cayman Islands                    $         70,000,000  1996
190    Faroe Islands                     $         64,000,000  1999
191    Micronesia, Federated States of   $         60,800,000  FY05 est.
192    British Virgin Islands            $         36,100,000  1997
193    Nauru                             $         33,300,000  2002
194    Greenland                         $         25,000,000  1999
195    Kiribati                          $         10,000,000  1999 est.
196    Montserrat                        $          8,900,000  1997
197    Anguilla                          $          8,800,000  1998
198    Wallis and Futuna                 $          3,670,000  2004
199    Niue                              $           418,000  2002 est.
200    Brunei                            $                0  2005
201    Liechtenstein                     $                0  2001
202    Palau                             $                0  FY99/00
203    Macau                             $                0  2006

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2085

Rank   Country                           Roadways(km)        Date of Information

1      World                                    68,937,575   2008
2      United States                             6,465,799   2007
3      European Union                            5,454,446   2008
4      India                                     3,316,452   2006
5      China                                     1,930,544   2005
6      Brazil                                    1,751,868   2004
7      Japan                                     1,196,999   2006
8      Canada                                    1,042,300   2006
9      France                                     951,500    2006
10     Russia                                     933,000    2006
11     Australia                                  812,972    2004
12     Spain                                      681,224    2006
13     Germany                                    644,480    2006
14     Italy                                      487,700    2005
15     Turkey                                     426,951    2006
16     Sweden                                     425,300    2008
17     Poland                                     423,997    2006
18     United Kingdom                             398,366    2006
19     Indonesia                                  391,009    2005
20     South Africa                               362,099    2002
21     Mexico                                     356,945    2006
22     Pakistan                                   259,758    2005
23     Bangladesh                                 239,226    2003
24     Argentina                                  231,374    2004
25     Vietnam                                    222,179    2004
26     Saudi Arabia                               221,372    2006
27     Philippines                                200,037    2003
28     Romania                                    198,817    2004
29     Nigeria                                    193,200    2004
30     Thailand                                   180,053    2006
31     Iran                                       172,927    2006
32     Ukraine                                    169,422    2007
33     Colombia                                   164,257    2005
34     Hungary                                    159,568    2005
35     Congo, Democratic Republic of the           153,497   2004
36     Belgium                                    152,256    2006
37     Netherlands                                134,981    2006
38     Czech Republic                             128,512    2007
39     Greece                                     117,533    2005
40     Algeria                                    108,302    2004
41     Austria                                    107,262    2006
42     Korea, South                               102,062    2006
43     Libya                                      100,024    2003
44     Malaysia                                    98,721    2004
45     Syria                                       97,401    2006
46     Sri Lanka                                   97,286    2003
47     Zimbabwe                                    97,267    2002
48     Ireland                                     96,602    2003
49     Venezuela                                   96,155    2002
50     Belarus                                     94,797    2005
51     New Zealand                                 93,576    2006
52     Norway                                      92,946    2007
53     Burkina Faso                                92,495    2004
54     Egypt                                       92,370    2004
55     Kazakhstan                                  91,563    2006
56     Zambia                                      91,440    2001
57     Uzbekistan                                  86,496    2000
58     Portugal                                    82,900    2005
59     Chile                                       80,505    2004
60     Cote d'Ivoire                               80,000    2006
61     Lithuania                                   79,984    2006
62     Tanzania                                    78,891    2003
63     Peru                                        78,829    2004
64     Finland                                     78,821    2008
65     Uruguay                                     77,732    2004
66     Denmark                                     72,362    2006
67     Yemen                                       71,300    2005
68     Switzerland                                 71,298    2006
69     Uganda                                      70,746    2003
70     Latvia                                      69,675    2006
71     Madagascar                                  65,663    2003
72     Kenya                                       63,265    2004
73     Bolivia                                     62,479    2004
74     Ghana                                       62,221    2006
75     Cuba                                        60,858    2000
76     Azerbaijan                                  59,141    2004
77     Turkmenistan                                58,592    2002
78     Morocco                                     57,625    2006
79     Estonia                                     57,016    2005
80     Angola                                      51,429    2001
81     Cameroon                                    50,000    2004
82     Mongolia                                    49,250    2002
83     Iraq                                        44,900    2002
84     Guinea                                      44,348    2003
85     Slovakia                                    43,761    2006
86     Ecuador                                     43,670    2006
87     Oman                                        42,300    2005
88     Namibia                                     42,237    2002
89     Afghanistan                                 42,150    2006
90     Taiwan                                      40,262    2007
91     Bulgaria                                    40,231    2005
92     Slovenia                                    38,562    2006
93     Cambodia                                    38,257    2004
94     Serbia                                      36,875    2006
95     Ethiopia                                    36,469    2004
96     Costa Rica                                  35,330    2004
97     Chad                                        33,400    2002
98     Mozambique                                  30,400    2000
99     Laos                                        29,811    2006
100    Paraguay                                    29,500    2000
101    Croatia                                     28,788    2006
102    Tajikistan                                  27,767    2000
103    Burma                                       27,000    2006
104    Puerto Rico                                 26,186    2007
105    Botswana                                    25,798    2005
106    Korea, North                                25,554    2006
107    Central African Republic                    24,307    2000
108    Somalia                                     22,100    2000
109    Bosnia and Herzegovina                      21,846    2006
110    Jamaica                                     21,552    2005
111    Georgia                                     20,329    2006
112    Dominican Republic                          19,705    2002
113    Papua New Guinea                            19,600    2000
114    Tunisia                                     19,232    2004
115    Nicaragua                                   19,036    2005
116    Mali                                        18,709    2004
117    Niger                                       18,550    2006
118    Kyrgyzstan                                  18,500    2003
119    Albania                                     18,000    2002
120    Israel                                      17,870    2007
121    Congo, Republic of the                      17,289    2004
122    Nepal                                       17,280    2004
123    Benin                                       16,000    2006
124    Malawi                                      15,451    2003
125    Cyprus                                      14,630    2006
126    Guatemala                                   14,095    2000
127    Rwanda                                      14,008    2004
128    Honduras                                    13,600    2000
129    Senegal                                     13,576    2003
130    Macedonia                                   13,182    2002
131    Iceland                                     13,058    2007
132    Moldova                                     12,666    2007
133    Burundi                                     12,322    2004
134    Panama                                      11,978    2002
135    Sudan                                       11,900    2000
136    Sierra Leone                                11,300    2002
137    Mauritania                                  11,066    2006
138    El Salvador                                 10,886    2000
139    Liberia                                     10,600    2000
140    Gabon                                        9,170    2004
141    Trinidad and Tobago                          8,320    2000
142    Bhutan                                       8,050    2003
143    Guyana                                       7,970    2000
144    Qatar                                        7,790    2006
145    Armenia                                      7,700    2006
146    Jordan                                       7,694    2006
147    Togo                                         7,520    2000
148    Montenegro                                   7,368    2006
149    Lesotho                                      7,091    2003
150    Lebanon                                      6,970    2005
151    Timor-Leste                                  6,040    2005
152    Kuwait                                       5,749    2004
153    New Caledonia                                5,622    2006
154    Luxembourg                                   5,227    2004
155    West Bank                                    5,147    2006
156    Suriname                                     4,304    2003
157    Haiti                                        4,160    2000
158    United Arab Emirates                         4,080    2008
159    Eritrea                                      4,010    2000
160    Gambia, The                                  3,742    2004
161    Brunei                                       3,650    2005
162    Swaziland                                    3,594    2002
163    Bahrain                                      3,498    2003
164    Guinea-Bissau                                3,455    2002
165    Fiji                                         3,440    2000
166    Singapore                                    3,262    2006
167    Djibouti                                     3,065    2000
168    Belize                                       3,007    2006
169    Equatorial Guinea                            2,880    2000
170    Bahamas, The                                 2,717    2002
171    French Polynesia                             2,590    1999
172    Samoa                                        2,337    2001
173    Malta                                        2,227    2005
174    Mauritius                                    2,028    2007
175    Marshall Islands                             2,028    2007
176    Hong Kong                                    2,009    2007
177    Kosovo                                       1,924    2006
178    Barbados                                     1,600    2004
179    Solomon Islands                              1,360    2002
180    Cape Verde                                   1,350    2000
181    Virgin Islands                               1,257    2007
182    Saint Lucia                                  1,210    2002
183    Antigua and Barbuda                          1,165    2002
184    Grenada                                      1,127    2000
185    Vanuatu                                      1,070    1999
186    Guam                                         1,045    2007
187    Comoros                                       880     2002
188    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines              829     2003
189    Cayman Islands                                785     2007
190    Dominica                                      780     2000
191    Tonga                                         680     2000
192    Kiribati                                      670     2000
193    Northern Mariana Islands                      536     2007
194    Isle of Man                                   500     2008
195    Faroe Islands                                 463     2006
196    Seychelles                                    458     2003
197    Bermuda                                       447     2007
198    Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)              440    2008
199    Macau                                         384     2006
200    Liechtenstein                                 380     2007
201    Jersey                                        358     2002
202    Cook Islands                                  320     2003
203    Saint Kitts and Nevis                         320     2002
204    Sao Tome and Principe                         320     2000
205    San Marino                                    292     2006
206    Andorra                                       270
207    Micronesia, Federated States of               240     2000
208    American Samoa                                221     2007
209    British Virgin Islands                        200     2007
210    Saint Helena                                  198     2002
211    Anguilla                                      175     2004
212    Christmas Island                              140     2007
213    Turks and Caicos Islands                      121     2003
214    Niue                                          120     2008
215    Saint Pierre and Miquelon                     117     2000
216    Maldives                                       88     2006
217    Norfolk Island                                 80     2008
218    Monaco                                         50     2007
219    Gibraltar                                      29     2007
220    Nauru                                          24     2002
221    Cocos (Keeling) Islands                        22     2006
222    Tuvalu                                          8     2002

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2087

Rank   Country                           Imports             Date of Information

1      World                             $   13,740,000,000,000  2006 est.
2      United States                     $    1,968,000,000,000  2007 est.
3      European Union                    $    1,466,000,000,000  2005
4      Germany                           $    1,075,000,000,000  2007 est.
5      China                             $     904,600,000,000  2007 est.
6      United Kingdom                    $     621,400,000,000  2007 est.
7      France                            $     600,900,000,000  2007 est.
8      Japan                             $     573,300,000,000  2007 est.
9      Italy                             $     498,100,000,000  2007 est.
10     Netherlands                       $     406,300,000,000  2007 est.
11     Canada                            $     386,400,000,000  2007 est.
12     Spain                             $     380,200,000,000  2007 est.
13     Hong Kong                         $     365,600,000,000  2007 est.
14     Korea, South                      $     349,600,000,000  2007 est.
15     Belgium                           $     323,200,000,000  2007 est.
16     Mexico                            $     281,900,000,000  2007 est.
17     Singapore                         $     252,000,000,000  2007 est.
18     India                             $     230,500,000,000  2007 est.
19     Russia                            $     223,400,000,000  2007 est.
20     Taiwan                            $     215,100,000,000  2007 est.
21     Switzerland                       $     187,100,000,000  2007 est.
22     Turkey                            $     162,000,000,000  2007 est.
23     Austria                           $     160,300,000,000  2007 est.
24     Poland                            $     160,200,000,000  2007 est.
25     Australia                         $     160,000,000,000  2007 est.
26     Sweden                            $     151,400,000,000  2007 est.
27     Malaysia                          $     139,100,000,000  2007 est.
28     Thailand                          $     125,200,000,000  2007 est.
29     Brazil                            $     120,600,000,000  2007 est.
30     United Arab Emirates              $     116,600,000,000  2007 est.
31     Czech Republic                    $     116,600,000,000  2007 est.
32     Denmark                           $     102,000,000,000  2007 est.
33     Hungary                           $      86,880,000,000  2007 est.
34     Indonesia                         $      84,930,000,000  2007 est.
35     Ireland                           $      84,760,000,000  2007 est.
36     Saudi Arabia                      $      82,640,000,000  2007 est.
37     South Africa                      $      81,890,000,000  2007 est.
38     Greece                            $      80,790,000,000  2007 est.
39     Finland                           $      78,050,000,000  2007 est.
40     Norway                            $      77,240,000,000  2007 est.
41     Portugal                          $      75,300,000,000  2007 est.
42     Romania                           $      64,540,000,000  2007 est.
43     Ukraine                           $      60,410,000,000  2007 est.
44     Vietnam                           $      58,920,000,000  2007 est.
45     Slovakia                          $      58,400,000,000  2007 est.
46     Philippines                       $      57,560,000,000  2007 est.
47     Israel                            $      55,790,000,000  2007 est.
48     Iran                              $      53,880,000,000  2007 est.
49     Venezuela                         $      45,460,000,000  2007 est.
50     Egypt                             $      44,950,000,000  2007 est.
51     Chile                             $      43,990,000,000  2007 est.
52     Argentina                         $      42,530,000,000  2007 est.
53     Nigeria                           $      38,500,000,000  2007 est.
54     Kazakhstan                        $      33,210,000,000  2007 est.
55     Colombia                          $      31,170,000,000  2007 est.
56     Slovenia                          $      29,390,000,000  2007 est.
57     Puerto Rico                       $      29,100,000,000  2001
58     New Zealand                       $      29,060,000,000  2007 est.
59     Pakistan                          $      28,760,000,000  2007 est.
60     Bulgaria                          $      28,670,000,000  2007 est.
61     Morocco                           $      28,500,000,000  2007 est.
62     Belarus                           $      28,320,000,000  2007 est.
63     Algeria                           $      26,250,000,000  2007 est.
64     Croatia                           $      25,990,000,000  2007 est.
65     Iraq                              $      25,670,000,000  2007 est.
66     Luxembourg                        $      23,130,000,000  2007 est.
67     Lithuania                         $      22,800,000,000  2007 est.
68     Kuwait                            $      20,640,000,000  2007 est.
69     Qatar                             $      19,860,000,000  2007 est.
70     Peru                              $      19,600,000,000  2007 est.
71     Serbia                            $      18,350,000,000  2007 est.
72     Tunisia                           $      18,020,000,000  2007 est.
73     Bangladesh                        $      16,670,000,000  2007 est.
74     Netherlands Antilles              $      15,740,000,000  2006
75     Latvia                            $      14,820,000,000  2007 est.
76     Estonia                           $      14,750,000,000  2007 est.
77     Libya                             $      14,430,000,000  2007 est.
78     Dominican Republic                $      13,820,000,000  2007 est.
79     Ecuador                           $      12,760,000,000  2007 est.
80     Guatemala                         $      12,620,000,000  2007 est.
81     Panama                            $      12,620,000,000  2007 est.
82     Angola                            $      12,290,000,000  2007 est.
83     Costa Rica                        $      12,260,000,000  2007 est.
84     Jordan                            $      12,020,000,000  2007 est.
85     Lebanon                           $      11,930,000,000  2007 est.
86     Oman                              $      11,000,000,000  2007 est.
87     Bahrain                           $      10,930,000,000  2007 est.
88     Syria                             $      10,500,000,000  2007 est.
89     Sri Lanka                         $      10,360,000,000  2007 est.
90     Cuba                              $      10,080,000,000  2007 est.
91     Bosnia and Herzegovina            $       9,947,000,000  2007 est.
92     Honduras                          $       8,556,000,000  2007 est.
93     Kenya                             $       8,540,000,000  2007 est.
94     El Salvador                       $       8,108,000,000  2007 est.
95     Ghana                             $       8,053,000,000  2007 est.
96     Cyprus                            $       7,840,000,000  2007 est.
97     Sudan                             $       7,722,000,000  2007 est.
98     Trinidad and Tobago               $       7,670,000,000  2007 est.
99     Liberia                           $       7,143,000,000  2006
100    Yemen                             $       6,735,000,000  2007 est.
101    Iceland                           $       6,181,000,000  2007 est.
102    Paraguay                          $       6,094,000,000  2007 est.
103    Azerbaijan                        $       6,045,000,000  2007 est.
104    Cote d'Ivoire                     $       5,932,000,000  2007 est.
105    Jamaica                           $       5,784,000,000  2007 est.
106    Uruguay                           $       5,554,000,000  2007 est.
107    Cambodia                          $       5,424,000,000  2007 est.
108    Ethiopia                          $       5,165,000,000  2007 est.
109    Georgia                           $       4,977,000,000  2007 est.
110    Macedonia                         $       4,977,000,000  2007 est.
111    Tanzania                          $       4,861,000,000  2007 est.
112    Virgin Islands                    $       4,609,000,000  2001
113    Macau                             $       4,559,000,000  2006
114    Malta                             $       4,541,000,000  2007 est.
115    Turkmenistan                      $       4,516,000,000  2007 est.
116    Uzbekistan                        $       4,480,000,000  2007 est.
117    Nicaragua                         $       4,078,000,000  2007 est.
118    Albania                           $       3,999,000,000  2007 est.
119    Afghanistan                       $       3,823,000,000  2006
120    Senegal                           $       3,731,000,000  2007 est.
121    Cameroon                          $       3,714,000,000  2007 est.
122    Moldova                           $       3,677,000,000  2007 est.
123    Mauritius                         $       3,656,000,000  2007 est.
124    Zambia                            $       3,611,000,000  2007 est.
125    Botswana                          $       3,403,000,000  2007 est.
126    Bolivia                           $       3,249,000,000  2007 est.
127    Fiji                              $       3,120,000,000  2006
128    Namibia                           $       3,091,000,000  2007 est.
129    Equatorial Guinea                 $       3,083,000,000  2007 est.
130    Uganda                            $       2,983,000,000  2007 est.
131    Gibraltar                         $       2,967,000,000  2004 est.
132    Burma                             $       2,942,000,000  2007 est.
133    Korea, North                      $       2,879,000,000  2006
134    Mozambique                        $       2,811,000,000  2007 est.
135    Armenia                           $       2,807,000,000  2007 est.
136    Tajikistan                        $       2,762,000,000  2007 est.
137    Kyrgyzstan                        $       2,636,000,000  2007 est.
138    Congo, Republic of the            $       2,634,000,000  2007 est.
139    Papua New Guinea                  $       2,629,000,000  2007 est.
140    Gaza Strip                        $       2,440,000,000  2005
141    West Bank                         $       2,440,000,000  2005
142    Bahamas, The                      $       2,401,000,000  2006
143    Nepal                             $       2,398,000,000  2006
144    Mali                              $       2,358,000,000  2006
145    Congo, Democratic Republic of the  $       2,263,000,000  2006
146    Zimbabwe                          $       2,183,000,000  2007 est.
147    Mongolia                          $       2,117,000,000  2007
148    Gabon                             $       2,107,000,000  2007 est.
149    San Marino                        $       2,035,000,000  2004
150    Brunei                            $       2,000,000,000  2006
151    New Caledonia                     $       1,998,000,000  2006
152    Madagascar                        $       1,918,000,000  2007 est.
153    Swaziland                         $       1,914,000,000  2007 est.
154    Andorra                           $       1,879,000,000  2005
155    Haiti                             $       1,734,000,000  2007 est.
156    French Polynesia                  $       1,706,000,000  2005 est.
157    Barbados                          $       1,586,000,000  2006
158    Djibouti                          $       1,555,000,000  2006
159    Lesotho                           $       1,536,000,000  2007 est.
160    Mauritania                        $       1,475,000,000  2006
161    Laos                              $       1,378,000,000  2007 est.
162    Suriname                          $       1,297,000,000  2006 est.
163    Burkina Faso                      $       1,296,000,000  2007 est.
164    Guinea                            $       1,202,000,000  2007 est.
165    Togo                              $       1,201,000,000  2007 est.
166    Bermuda                           $       1,162,000,000  2006
167    Chad                              $       1,158,000,000  2007 est.
168    Benin                             $       1,085,000,000  2007 est.
169    Aruba                             $       1,054,000,000  2006
170    Guyana                            $       1,006,000,000  2007 est.
171    Maldives                          $        930,000,000  2006
172    Liechtenstein                     $        917,300,000  1996
173    Monaco                            $        916,100,000  2005
174    Cayman Islands                    $        866,900,000  2004
175    Malawi                            $        866,000,000  2007 est.
176    Seychelles                        $        823,000,000  2007 est.
177    Niger                             $        800,000,000  2006
178    Somalia                           $        798,000,000  2006
179    Saint Lucia                       $        791,000,000  2006
180    Faroe Islands                     $        751,000,000  2006
181    Cape Verde                        $        743,600,000  2007 est.
182    Greenland                         $        712,000,000  2006
183    Guam                              $        701,000,000  2004 est.
184    Belize                            $        642,000,000  2007 est.
185    Rwanda                            $        637,000,000  2007 est.
186    Montenegro                        $        601,700,000  2003
187    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines  $        578,000,000  2006
188    Eritrea                           $        573,000,000  2007 est.
189    Sierra Leone                      $        560,000,000  2006
190    Antigua and Barbuda               $        522,800,000  2007 est.
191    Saint Kitts and Nevis             $        383,000,000  2006
192    Grenada                           $        343,000,000  2006
193    Mayotte                           $        341,000,000  2005
194    Samoa                             $        324,000,000  2006
195    Bhutan                            $        320,000,000  2006
196    American Samoa                    $        308,800,000  FY04 est.
197    Dominica                          $        296,000,000  2006
198    Burundi                           $        272,000,000  2007 est.
199    Gambia, The                       $        271,000,000  2007 est.
200    Solomon Islands                   $        256,000,000  2006
201    Central African Republic          $        237,300,000  2007 est.
202    Northern Mariana Islands          $        214,400,000  2001
203    Timor-Leste                       $        202,000,000  2004 est.
204    Guinea-Bissau                     $        200,000,000  2006
205    British Virgin Islands            $        187,000,000  2002 est.
206    Turks and Caicos Islands          $        175,600,000  2000
207    Vanuatu                           $        156,000,000  2006
208    Anguilla                          $        143,000,000  2006
209    Comoros                           $        143,000,000  2006
210    Tonga                             $        139,000,000  2006
211    Micronesia, Federated States of   $        132,700,000  2004
212    Palau                             $        107,300,000  2004 est.
213    Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)  $         90,000,000  2004 est.
214    Cook Islands                      $         81,040,000  2005
215    Saint Pierre and Miquelon         $         68,200,000  2005 est.
216    Sao Tome and Principe             $         66,000,000  2007 est.
217    Kiribati                          $         62,000,000  2004 est.
218    Wallis and Futuna                 $         61,170,000  2004
219    Marshall Islands                  $         54,700,000  2000
220    Saint Helena                      $         45,000,000  2004 est.
221    Nauru                             $         20,000,000  2004 est.
222    Norfolk Island                    $         17,900,000  FY91/92
223    Montserrat                        $         17,000,000  2001
224    Tuvalu                            $         12,910,000  2005
225    Niue                              $          9,038,000  2004
226    Tokelau                           $           969,200  2002

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2089

Rank   Country                           Industrial production growth rate(%)  Date of Information

1      Azerbaijan                                  25.00     2007 est.
2      Angola                                      23.90     2007 est.
3      Sudan                                       22.00     2007 est.
4      Slovakia                                    17.20     2007 est.
5      Cambodia                                    15.00     2007 est.
6      Bulgaria                                    14.00     2007 est.
7      China                                       13.40     2007 est.
8      Georgia                                     13.40     2007 est.
9      Rwanda                                      13.10     2007 est.
10     Uzbekistan                                  12.10     2007 est.
11     Laos                                        12.00     2007 est.
12     Lesotho                                     12.00     2007 est.
13     Chile                                       11.10     2007 est.
14     Ethiopia                                    11.00     2007 est.
15     Romania                                     10.60     2007 est.
16     Vietnam                                     10.60     2007 est.
17     Panama                                      10.50     2007 est.
18     Turkmenistan                                10.30     2007 est.
19     Equatorial Guinea                           10.10     2007 est.
20     Mozambique                                  10.00     2007 est.
21     Colombia                                     9.80     2007 est.
22     Czech Republic                               9.80     2007 est.
23     Peru                                         9.80     2007 est.
24     Slovenia                                     9.50     2007 est.
25     Tanzania                                     9.50     2007 est.
26     Bhutan                                       9.30     1996 est.
27     Kyrgyzstan                                   9.30     2007 est.
28     Taiwan                                       9.20     2007 est.
29     Burma                                        9.00     2007 est.
30     Namibia                                      9.00     2007 est.
31     Iceland                                      9.00     2007 est.
32     Poland                                       8.90     2007 est.
33     India                                        8.50     2007 est.
34     Timor-Leste                                  8.50     2004 est.
35     Bangladesh                                   8.40     2007 est.
36     Finland                                      8.10     2007 est.
37     Faroe Islands                                8.00     1999 est.
38     Pakistan                                     8.00     2007 est.
39     Qatar                                        8.00     2007 est.
40     Iraq                                         7.90     2007 est.
41     Uruguay                                      7.90     2007 est.
42     Ghana                                        7.80     2007 est.
43     Estonia                                      7.70     2007 est.
44     Jordan                                       7.70     2007 est.
45     Sri Lanka                                    7.60     2007 est.
46     Guinea                                       7.60     2007 est.
47     Argentina                                    7.50     2007 est.
48     Egypt                                        7.50     2007 est.
49     Cape Verde                                   7.50     2007 est.
50     Lithuania                                    7.40     2007 est.
51     Russia                                       7.40     2007 est.
52     Singapore                                    7.40     2007 est.
53     Costa Rica                                   7.30     2007 est.
54     Kazakhstan                                   7.20     2007 est.
55     Tunisia                                      7.20     2007 est.
56     Philippines                                  7.10     2007 est.
57     Seychelles                                   7.00     2007 est.
58     Sao Tome and Principe                        7.00     2007 est.
59     Kenya                                        6.80     2007 est.
60     Bosnia and Herzegovina                       6.70     2007 est.
61     Suriname                                     6.50     1994 est.
62     Trinidad and Tobago                          6.50     2007 est.
63     Switzerland                                  6.50     2006 est.
64     Burundi                                      6.40     2007 est.
65     Papua New Guinea                             6.40     2007 est.
66     Zambia                                       6.30     2007 est.
67     Madagascar                                   6.00     2007 est.
68     Ukraine                                      6.00     2007 est.
69     Uganda                                       5.80     2007 est.
70     Austria                                      5.70     2007 est.
71     Libya                                        5.60     2007 est.
72     San Marino                                   5.60     2005 est.
73     Korea, South                                 5.50     2007 est.
74     Latvia                                       5.40     2007 est.
75     Turkey                                       5.40     2007 est.
76     Thailand                                     5.40     2007 est.
77     Croatia                                      5.30     2007 est.
78     Bahrain                                      5.20     2007 est.
79     Germany                                      5.20     2007 est.
80     Senegal                                      5.20     2007 est.
81     Gabon                                        5.20     2007 est.
82     Burkina Faso                                 5.20     2007 est.
83     Niger                                        5.10     2003 est.
84     Algeria                                      5.00     2007 est.
85     Belarus                                      5.00     2007 est.
86     Ireland                                      5.00     2007 est.
87     World                                        5.00     2007 est.
88     Tajikistan                                   5.00     2007 est.
89     Nicaragua                                    5.00     2007 est.
90     Morocco                                      5.00     2007 est.
91     Brazil                                       4.90     2007 est.
92     Guatemala                                    4.80     2007 est.
93     Iran                                         4.80     2007 est.
94     Indonesia                                    4.70     2007 est.
95     Guinea-Bissau                                4.70     2003 est.
96     Mauritius                                    4.70     2007 est.
97     Benin                                        4.50     2007 est.
98     Honduras                                     4.40     2007 est.
99     South Africa                                 4.40     2007 est.
100    Malawi                                       4.40     2007 est.
101    United Arab Emirates                         4.30     2007 est.
102    Botswana                                     4.20     2007 est.
103    Australia                                    4.10     2007 est.
104    Israel                                       4.10     2007 est.
105    Albania                                      4.00     2007 est.
106    Venezuela                                    3.90     2007 est.
107    Cyprus                                       3.80     2007 est.
108    Macau                                        3.80     3rd quarter, 2007
109    Cameroon                                     3.50     2007 est.
110    Hungary                                      3.50     2007 est.
111    El Salvador                                  3.40     2007 est.
112    Malaysia                                     3.30     2007 est.
113    Armenia                                      3.20     2007 est.
114    Oman                                         3.20     2007 est.
115    Yemen                                        3.20     2007 est.
116    Nigeria                                      3.20     2007 est.
117    Isle of Man                                  3.20     FY96/97
118    European Union                               3.20     2006 est.
119    Anguilla                                     3.10     1997 est.
120    Spain                                        3.10     2007 est.
121    Netherlands                                  3.10     2007 est.
122    Central African Republic                     3.00     2002
123    Sweden                                       3.00     2007 est.
124    Djibouti                                     3.00     1996 est.
125    Mongolia                                     3.00     2006 est.
126    Saudi Arabia                                 2.90     2007 est.
127    Belgium                                      2.80     2007 est.
128    Samoa                                        2.80     2000
129    Cuba                                         2.50     2007 est.
130    Haiti                                        2.50     2007 est.
131    Syria                                        2.50     2007 est.
132    Dominican Republic                           2.40     2007 est.
133    West Bank                                    2.40     2005
134    Gaza Strip                                   2.40     2005
135    Portugal                                     2.30     2007 est.
136    Greece                                       2.20     2007 est.
137    Nepal                                        2.20     FY05/06
138    Chad                                         2.00     2007 est.
139    Mauritania                                   2.00     2000 est.
140    Eritrea                                      2.00     2007 est.
141    Brunei                                       1.80     2005 est.
142    France                                       1.80     2007 est.
143    Serbia                                       1.80     2007 est.
144    Kuwait                                       1.70     2007 est.
145    Luxembourg                                   1.70     2007 est.
146    Macedonia                                    1.70     2007 est.
147    New Zealand                                  1.50     2007 est.
148    Ecuador                                      1.40     2007 est.
149    Mexico                                       1.40     2007 est.
150    Japan                                        1.30     2007 est.
151    Jamaica                                      1.20     2007 est.
152    Bolivia                                      1.10     2007 est.
153    Swaziland                                    1.10     2007 est.
154    Cook Islands                                 1.00     2002
155    Moldova                                      1.00     2007 est.
156    Tonga                                        1.00     2003 est.
157    Togo                                         1.00     2007 est.
158    Vanuatu                                      1.00     1997 est.
159    Grenada                                      0.70     1997 est.
160    Kiribati                                     0.70     1991 est.
161    Italy                                        0.60     2007 est.
162    Belize                                       0.50     2007 est.
163    United Kingdom                               0.50     2007 est.
164    Denmark                                      0.50     2007 est.
165    Canada                                       0.30     2007 est.
166    Norway                                       0.10     2007 est.
167    New Caledonia                               -0.60     1996
168    Hong Kong                                   -0.80     2007 est.
169    Maldives                                    -0.90     2004 est.
170    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines            -0.90     1997 est.
171    Paraguay                                    -1.00     2007 est.
172    United States                               -1.70     2007 est.
173    Cote d'Ivoire                               -1.80     2007 est.
174    Comoros                                     -2.00     1999 est.
175    Gambia, The                                 -2.30     2007 est.
176    Barbados                                    -3.20     2000 est.
177    Zimbabwe                                    -5.00     2007 est.
178    Saint Lucia                                 -8.90     1997 est.
179    Dominica                                   -10.00     1997 est.
180    Congo, Republic of the                     -12.00     2007 est.
181    Guyana                                     -26.40     2007 est.

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2091

Rank   Country                           Infant mortality rate(deaths/1,000 live births)  Date of Information

1      Angola                               182.31           2008 est.
2      Sierra Leone                         156.48           2008 est.
3      Afghanistan                          154.67           2008 est.
4      Liberia                              143.89           2008 est.
5      Niger                                115.42           2008 est.
6      Somalia                              110.97           2008 est.
7      Mozambique                           107.84           2008 est.
8      Mali                                 103.83           2008 est.
9      Guinea-Bissau                        101.64           2008 est.
10     Zambia                               100.96           2008 est.
11     Chad                                 100.36           2008 est.
12     Djibouti                              99.13           2008 est.
13     Nigeria                               95.74           2008 est.
14     Malawi                                90.55           2008 est.
15     Sudan                                 86.98           2008 est.
16     Burkina Faso                          86.02           2008 est.
17     Equatorial Guinea                     83.75           2008 est.
18     Rwanda                                83.42           2008 est.
19     Congo, Democratic Republic of the      83.11          2008 est.
20     Ethiopia                              82.64           2008 est.
21     Central African Republic              82.13           2008 est.
22     Congo, Republic of the                81.29           2008 est.
23     Laos                                  79.61           2008 est.
24     Lesotho                               78.59           2008 est.
25     Western Sahara                        71.13           2008 est.
26     Tanzania                              70.46           2008 est.
27     Cote d'Ivoire                         69.76           2008 est.
28     Swaziland                             69.59           2008 est.
29     Gambia, The                           68.72           2008 est.
30     Comoros                               68.58           2008 est.
31     Guinea                                67.41           2008 est.
32     Pakistan                              66.94           2008 est.
33     Mauritania                            66.65           2008 est.
34     Benin                                 66.20           2008 est.
35     Uganda                                65.99           2008 est.
36     Cameroon                              64.57           2008 est.
37     Haiti                                 62.33           2008 est.
38     Nepal                                 62.00           2008 est.
39     Burundi                               60.77           2008 est.
40     Senegal                               58.93           2008 est.
41     Mayotte                               57.88           2008 est.
42     Togo                                  57.66           2008 est.
43     Bangladesh                            57.45           2008 est.
44     Cambodia                              56.59           2008 est.
45     Azerbaijan                            56.43           2008 est.
46     Yemen                                 56.27           2008 est.
47     Kenya                                 56.01           2008 est.
48     Madagascar                            55.59           2008 est.
49     Gabon                                 52.65           2008 est.
50     Ghana                                 52.31           2008 est.
51     Bhutan                                51.92           2008 est.
52     Turkmenistan                          51.81           2008 est.
53     Vanuatu                               50.77           2008 est.
54     Burma                                 49.12           2008 est.
55     Bolivia                               49.09           2008 est.
56     Papua New Guinea                      46.67           2008 est.
57     Namibia                               45.64           2008 est.
58     Iraq                                  45.43           2008 est.
59     South Africa                          45.11           2008 est.
60     Kiribati                              44.69           2008 est.
61     Eritrea                               44.34           2008 est.
62     Botswana                              44.01           2008 est.
63     Cape Verde                            42.55           2008 est.
64     Tajikistan                            42.31           2008 est.
65     World                                 42.09           2008 est.
66     Timor-Leste                           41.98           2008 est.
67     Mongolia                              41.24           2008 est.
68     Sao Tome and Principe                 38.36           2008 est.
69     Morocco                               38.22           2008 est.
70     Turkey                                36.98           2008 est.
71     Iran                                  36.93           2008 est.
72     Zimbabwe                              33.86           2008 est.
73     India                                 32.31           2008 est.
74     Kyrgyzstan                            32.30           2008 est.
75     Indonesia                             31.04           2008 est.
76     Maldives                              30.63           2008 est.
77     Guyana                                30.43           2008 est.
78     Peru                                  29.53           2008 est.
79     Guatemala                             28.79           2008 est.
80     Algeria                               28.75           2008 est.
81     Egypt                                 28.36           2008 est.
82     Micronesia, Federated States of       27.03           2008 est.
83     Dominican Republic                    26.93           2008 est.
84     Syria                                 26.78           2008 est.
85     Kazakhstan                            26.56           2008 est.
86     Marshall Islands                      26.36           2008 est.
87     Nicaragua                             25.91           2008 est.
88     Paraguay                              25.55           2008 est.
89     Samoa                                 25.04           2008 est.
90     Honduras                              24.61           2008 est.
91     Uzbekistan                            24.23           2008 est.
92     Romania                               23.73           2008 est.
93     Bahamas, The                          23.67           2008 est.
94     Belize                                23.65           2008 est.
95     Vietnam                               23.61           2008 est.
96     Trinidad and Tobago                   23.59           2008 est.
97     Tunisia                               23.43           2008 est.
98     Brazil                                23.33           2008 est.
99     Lebanon                               22.59           2008 est.
100    El Salvador                           22.19           2008 est.
101    Venezuela                             22.02           2008 est.
102    Libya                                 21.94           2008 est.
103    Korea, North                          21.86           2008 est.
104    Ecuador                               21.35           2008 est.
105    Philippines                           21.20           2008 est.
106    China                                 21.16           2008 est.
107    Armenia                               20.94           2008 est.
108    Solomon Islands                       19.67           2008 est.
109    Colombia                              19.51           2008 est.
110    Suriname                              19.45           2008 est.
111    Albania                               19.31           2008 est.
112    Sri Lanka                             19.01           2008 est.
113    Mexico                                19.01           2008 est.
114    Gaza Strip                            19.00           2008 est.
115    Tuvalu                                18.97           2008 est.
116    Bulgaria                              18.51           2008 est.
117    Saint Helena                          18.31           2008 est.
118    Thailand                              18.23           2008 est.
119    Antigua and Barbuda                   17.49           2008 est.
120    Oman                                  17.45           2008 est.
121    Georgia                               16.78           2008 est.
122    West Bank                             16.51           2008 est.
123    Montserrat                            16.46           2008 est.
124    Malaysia                              16.39           2008 est.
125    Bahrain                               15.64           2008 est.
126    Jamaica                               15.57           2008 est.
127    Jordan                                15.57           2008 est.
128    British Virgin Islands                15.20           2008 est.
129    Seychelles                            14.36           2008 est.
130    Turks and Caicos Islands              14.35           2008 est.
131    Saint Kitts and Nevis                 14.34           2008 est.
132    Aruba                                 14.26           2008 est.
133    Dominica                              14.12           2008 est.
134    Saint Lucia                           13.80           2008 est.
135    Palau                                 13.69           2008 est.
136    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines      13.62           2008 est.
137    Grenada                               13.58           2008 est.
138    Moldova                               13.50           2008 est.
139    Panama                                13.40           2008 est.
140    United Arab Emirates                  13.11           2008 est.
141    Qatar                                 13.09           2008 est.
142    Brunei                                12.69           2008 est.
143    Mauritius                             12.56           2008 est.
144    Saudi Arabia                          11.94           2008 est.
145    Fiji                                  11.88           2008 est.
146    Tonga                                 11.88           2008 est.
147    Argentina                             11.78           2008 est.
148    Uruguay                               11.66           2008 est.
149    Greenland                             11.20           2008 est.
150    Barbados                              11.05           2008 est.
151    Russia                                10.81           2008 est.
152    American Samoa                        10.46           2008 est.
153    Nauru                                  9.43           2008 est.
154    Netherlands Antilles                   9.36           2008 est.
155    Bosnia and Herzegovina                 9.34           2008 est.
156    Macedonia                              9.27           2008 est.
157    Ukraine                                9.23           2008 est.
158    Kuwait                                 9.22           2008 est.
159    Costa Rica                             9.01           2008 est.
160    Latvia                                 8.96           2008 est.
161    Puerto Rico                            8.65           2008 est.
162    Hungary                                8.03           2008 est.
163    Chile                                  7.90           2008 est.
164    Bermuda                                7.87           2008 est.
165    Virgin Islands                         7.72           2008 est.
166    French Polynesia                       7.70           2008 est.
167    Estonia                                7.45           2008 est.
168    New Caledonia                          7.19           2008 est.
169    Cayman Islands                         7.10           2008 est.
170    Saint Pierre and Miquelon              7.04           2008 est.
171    Slovakia                               6.98           2008 est.
172    Poland                                 6.93           2008 est.
173    Cyprus                                 6.75           2008 est.
174    Northern Mariana Islands               6.72           2008 est.
175    Lithuania                              6.57           2008 est.
176    Guam                                   6.55           2008 est.
177    Belarus                                6.53           2008 est.
178    Croatia                                6.49           2008 est.
179    Faroe Islands                          6.46           2008 est.
180    European Union                         6.38           2008 est.
181    United States                          6.30           2008 est.
182    Cuba                                   5.93           2008 est.
183    Isle of Man                            5.62           2008 est.
184    Italy                                  5.61           2008 est.
185    Taiwan                                 5.45           2008 est.
186    San Marino                             5.44           2008 est.
187    Greece                                 5.25           2008 est.
188    Monaco                                 5.18           2008 est.
189    Ireland                                5.14           2008 est.
190    Canada                                 5.08           2008 est.
191    Jersey                                 5.01           2008 est.
192    New Zealand                            4.99           2008 est.
193    United Kingdom                         4.93           2008 est.
194    Gibraltar                              4.91           2008 est.
195    Portugal                               4.85           2008 est.
196    Australia                              4.82           2008 est.
197    Netherlands                            4.81           2008 est.
198    Luxembourg                             4.62           2008 est.
199    Guernsey                               4.53           2008 est.
200    Liechtenstein                          4.52           2008 est.
201    Belgium                                4.50           2008 est.
202    Austria                                4.48           2008 est.
203    Denmark                                4.40           2008 est.
204    Slovenia                               4.30           2008 est.
205    Korea, South                           4.29           2008 est.
206    Israel                                 4.28           2008 est.
207    Spain                                  4.26           2008 est.
208    Switzerland                            4.23           2008 est.
209    Germany                                4.03           2008 est.
210    Czech Republic                         3.83           2008 est.
211    Malta                                  3.79           2008 est.
212    Andorra                                3.68           2008 est.
213    Norway                                 3.61           2008 est.
214    Anguilla                               3.54           2008 est.
215    Finland                                3.50           2008 est.
216    France                                 3.36           2008 est.
217    Iceland                                3.25           2008 est.
218    Macau                                  3.23           2008 est.
219    Hong Kong                              2.93           2008 est.
220    Japan                                  2.80           2008 est.
221    Sweden                                 2.75           2008 est.
222    Singapore                              2.30           2008 est.

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2092

Rank   Country                           Inflation rate (consumer prices)(%)  Date of Information

1      Nauru                                 -3.60           1993
2      San Marino                            -1.50           2006
3      Northern Mariana Islands              -0.80           2000
4      Burkina Faso                          -0.20           2007 est.
5      Japan                                  0.10           2007 est.
6      Niger                                  0.10           2007 est.
7      Kiribati                               0.20           2007 est.
8      Brunei                                 0.40           2007 est.
9      Israel                                 0.50           2007 est.
10     Switzerland                            0.70           2007 est.
11     Norway                                 0.80           2007 est.
12     Central African Republic               0.90           2007 est.
13     Papua New Guinea                       0.90           2007 est.
14     Greenland                              1.00           2005 est.
15     Liechtenstein                          1.00           2001
16     Togo                                   1.00           2007 est.
17     Cameroon                               1.10           2007 est.
18     French Polynesia                       1.10           2006 est.
19     Benin                                  1.30           2007 est.
20     Malta                                  1.30           2007 est.
21     New Caledonia                          1.40           2000 est.
22     Antigua and Barbuda                    1.50           2007 est.
23     France                                 1.50           2007 est.
24     Bosnia and Herzegovina                 1.60           2007 est.
25     Netherlands                            1.60           2007 est.
26     Denmark                                1.70           2007 est.
27     Mayotte                                1.70           2005
28     Belgium                                1.80           2007 est.
29     Taiwan                                 1.80           2007 est.
30     Peru                                   1.80           2007 est.
31     Italy                                  1.80           2007 est.
32     Faroe Islands                          1.80           2005
33     European Union                         1.80           2006 est.
34     Cote d'Ivoire                          1.90           2007 est.
35     Monaco                                 1.90           2000
36     Saint Lucia                            1.90           2007 est.
37     Hong Kong                              2.00           2007 est.
38     Kosovo                                 2.00           2007 est.
39     Morocco                                2.00           2007 est.
40     British Virgin Islands                 2.00           2005
41     Malaysia                               2.00           2007 est.
42     Canada                                 2.10           2007 est.
43     Cook Islands                           2.10           2005 est.
44     Singapore                              2.10           2007 est.
45     Netherlands Antilles                   2.10           2003 est.
46     Austria                                2.20           2007 est.
47     Virgin Islands                         2.20           2003
48     Thailand                               2.20           2007 est.
49     Micronesia, Federated States of        2.20           2005
50     Sweden                                 2.20           2007 est.
51     Australia                              2.30           2007 est.
52     Luxembourg                             2.30           2007 est.
53     Macedonia                              2.30           2007 est.
54     Belize                                 2.30           2007 est.
55     United Kingdom                         2.30           2007 est.
56     Germany                                2.30           2007 est.
57     Ecuador                                2.30           2007 est.
58     Bahamas, The                           2.40           2007 est.
59     Portugal                               2.40           2007 est.
60     New Zealand                            2.40           2007 est.
61     Cyprus                                 2.40           2007 est.
62     Finland                                2.50           2007 est.
63     Korea, South                           2.50           2007 est.
64     Poland                                 2.50           2007 est.
65     Mali                                   2.50           2007 est.
66     Guam                                   2.50           2005 est.
67     Montserrat                             2.60           2002 est.
68     Congo, Republic of the                 2.70           2007 est.
69     Palau                                  2.70           2005 est.
70     Dominica                               2.70           2007 est.
71     Bermuda                                2.80           November 2005
72     Slovakia                               2.80           2007 est.
73     Philippines                            2.80           2007 est.
74     Spain                                  2.80           2007 est.
75     Wallis and Futuna                      2.80           2005
76     Albania                                2.90           2007 est.
77     Gibraltar                              2.90           2005
78     United States                          2.90           2007 est.
79     Greece                                 2.90           2007 est.
80     Czech Republic                         2.90           2007 est.
81     Comoros                                3.00           2007 est.
82     Marshall Islands                       3.00           2005 est.
83     Cuba                                   3.10           2007 est.
84     Tunisia                                3.10           2007 est.
85     Isle of Man                            3.10           December 2006 est.
86     Andorra                                3.20           2005
87     Saint Helena                           3.20           1997 est.
88     Bahrain                                3.30           2007 est.
89     Aruba                                  3.40           2005
90     Montenegro                             3.40           2007
91     Guernsey                               3.40           June 2006
92     Algeria                                3.50           2007 est.
93     Brazil                                 3.60           2007 est.
94     Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)       3.60          1998
95     Gaza Strip                             3.60           2006
96     Slovenia                               3.60           2007 est.
97     West Bank                              3.60           2006
98     Grenada                                3.70           2007 est.
99     Jersey                                 3.70           December 2006
100    Guinea-Bissau                          3.80           2007 est.
101    Tuvalu                                 3.80           2006 est.
102    Vanuatu                                3.90           2007 est.
103    Chad                                   4.00           2007 est.
104    Mexico                                 4.00           2007 est.
105    Niue                                   4.00           2005
106    Turks and Caicos Islands               4.00           1995
107    Saudi Arabia                           4.10           2007 est.
108    Lebanon                                4.20           2007 est.
109    Panama                                 4.20           2007 est.
110    Armenia                                4.40           2007 est.
111    Cape Verde                             4.40           2007 est.
112    Cayman Islands                         4.40           2004
113    Chile                                  4.40           2007 est.
114    Croatia                                4.50           2007 est.
115    Saint Kitts and Nevis                  4.50           2007 est.
116    Laos                                   4.50           2007 est.
117    El Salvador                            4.60           2007 est.
118    Iraq                                   4.70           2007 est.
119    China                                  4.80           2007 est.
120    Fiji                                   4.80           2007
121    Romania                                4.80           2007 est.
122    Bhutan                                 4.90           2007 est.
123    Ireland                                4.90           2007 est.
124    Djibouti                               5.00           2007 est.
125    Gabon                                  5.00           2007 est.
126    Maldives                               5.00           2007 est.
127    Gambia, The                            5.10           2007 est.
128    Iceland                                5.10           2007 est.
129    Anguilla                               5.30           2006 est.
130    Seychelles                             5.30           2007 est.
131    Jordan                                 5.40           2007 est.
132    Nigeria                                5.40           2007 est.
133    Barbados                               5.50           2007 est.
134    Kuwait                                 5.50           2007 est.
135    Colombia                               5.50           2007 est.
136    Lithuania                              5.70           2007 est.
137    Cambodia                               5.90           2007 est.
138    Tonga                                  5.90           2007 est.
139    Senegal                                5.90           2007 est.
140    Oman                                   5.90           2007 est.
141    Equatorial Guinea                      6.00           2007 est.
142    Samoa                                  6.00           2007 est.
143    Dominican Republic                     6.10           2007 est.
144    Uganda                                 6.10           2007 est.
145    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines       6.10           2007 est.
146    Solomon Islands                        6.30           2007 est.
147    Indonesia                              6.30           2007 est.
148    Libya                                  6.30           2007 est.
149    India                                  6.40           2007 est.
150    Suriname                               6.40           2007 est.
151    Nepal                                  6.40           2007 est.
152    Puerto Rico                            6.50           2003 est.
153    South Africa                           6.50           2007 est.
154    Estonia                                6.60           2007 est.
155    Namibia                                6.70           2007 est.
156    Guatemala                              6.80           2007 est.
157    Serbia                                 6.80           2007
158    Honduras                               6.90           2007 est.
159    Tanzania                               7.00           2007 est.
160    Botswana                               7.10           2007 est.
161    Macau                                  7.20           2006
162    Mauritania                             7.30           2007 est.
163    Pakistan                               7.60           2007 est.
164    Timor-Leste                            7.80           2007 est.
165    Malawi                                 7.90           2007 est.
166    Trinidad and Tobago                    7.90           2007 est.
167    Hungary                                8.00           2007 est.
168    Sudan                                  8.00           2007 est.
169    Lesotho                                8.00           2007 est.
170    Paraguay                               8.10           2007 est.
171    Swaziland                              8.10           2007 est.
172    Saint Pierre and Miquelon              8.10           2005
173    Uruguay                                8.10           2007 est.
174    Mozambique                             8.20           2007 est.
175    Burundi                                8.30           2007 est.
176    Vietnam                                8.30           2007 est.
177    Belarus                                8.40           2007 est.
178    Haiti                                  8.50           2007 est.
179    Bolivia                                8.70           2007 est.
180    Turkey                                 8.70           2007 est.
181    Argentina                              8.80           2007 est.
182    Mauritius                              8.80           2007 est.
183    Mongolia                               9.00           2007
184    Russia                                 9.00           2007 est.
185    Bangladesh                             9.10           2007 est.
186    Rwanda                                 9.10           2007 est.
187    Georgia                                9.30           2007 est.
188    Costa Rica                             9.40           2007 est.
189    Egypt                                  9.50           2007 est.
190    Jamaica                                9.50           2007 est.
191    Kenya                                  9.70           2007 est.
192    Bulgaria                               9.80           2007 est.
193    Yemen                                 10.00           2007 est.
194    Latvia                                10.10           2007 est.
195    Kyrgyzstan                            10.20           2007 est.
196    Madagascar                            10.30           2007 est.
197    Zambia                                10.60           2007 est.
198    Ghana                                 10.70           2007 est.
199    Kazakhstan                            10.80           2007 est.
200    Nicaragua                             11.10           2007 est.
201    Liberia                               11.20           2007 est.
202    Turkmenistan                          11.30           2007 est.
203    Sierra Leone                          11.70           2007 est.
204    Uzbekistan                            12.00           2007 est.
205    Angola                                12.20           2007 est.
206    Syria                                 12.20           2007 est.
207    Guyana                                12.30           2007 est.
208    Moldova                               12.30           2007 est.
209    Ukraine                               12.80           2007 est.
210    Afghanistan                           13.00           2007 est.
211    Tajikistan                            13.10           2007 est.
212    Qatar                                 13.70           2007 est.
213    United Arab Emirates                  14.00           2007 est.
214    Sri Lanka                             15.80           2007 est.
215    Azerbaijan                            16.70           2007 est.
216    Congo, Democratic Republic of the      16.70          2007 est.
217    Eritrea                               17.00           2007 est.
218    Iran                                  17.10           2007 est.
219    Ethiopia                              17.20           2007 est.
220    Sao Tome and Principe                 18.00           2007 est.
221    Venezuela                             18.70           2007 est.
222    Guinea                                23.40           2007 est.
223    Burma                                 35.00           2007 est.
224    Zimbabwe                           12,563.00          2007 est.

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2093

Rank   Country                           Waterways(km)       Date of Information

1      World                                      671,886    2004
2      China                                      124,000    2006
3      Russia                                     102,000    2006
4      European Union                              52,332    2006
5      Brazil                                      50,000    2007
6      United States                               41,009    2007
7      Indonesia                                   21,579    2007
8      Colombia                                    18,000    2006
9      Vietnam                                     17,702    2005
10     Congo, Democratic Republic of the            15,000   2005
11     India                                       14,500    2006
12     Burma                                       12,800    2007
13     Argentina                                   11,000    2006
14     Papua New Guinea                            11,000    2006
15     Bolivia                                     10,000    2007
16     Peru                                         8,808    2007
17     Nigeria                                      8,600    2007
18     France                                       8,500    2006
19     Bangladesh                                   8,370    2006
20     Finland                                      7,842    2006
21     Germany                                      7,467    2006
22     Malaysia                                     7,200    2005
23     Venezuela                                    7,100    2005
24     Netherlands                                  6,211    2006
25     Iraq                                         5,279    2006
26     Laos                                         4,600    2007
27     Sudan                                        4,068    2006
28     Kazakhstan                                   4,000    2006
29     Thailand                                     4,000    2005
30     Poland                                       3,997    2006
31     France                                       3,760    2006
32     Egypt                                        3,500    2006
33     Philippines                                  3,219    2007
34     United Kingdom                               3,200    2003
35     Paraguay                                     3,100    2007
36     Mexico                                       2,900    2007
37     Central African Republic                     2,800    2006
38     Belarus                                      2,500    2003
39     Cambodia                                     2,400    2005
40     Italy                                        2,400    2006
41     Ukraine                                      2,253    2006
42     Korea, North                                 2,250    2007
43     Zambia                                       2,250    2005
44     Nicaragua                                    2,220    2007
45     Sweden                                       2,052    2005
46     Belgium                                      2,043    2006
47     Australia                                    2,000    2006
48     Mali                                         1,800    2007
49     Japan                                        1,770    2007
50     Romania                                      1,731    2006
51     Hungary                                      1,622    2007
52     Korea, South                                 1,608    2007
53     Gabon                                        1,600    2007
54     Uruguay                                      1,600    2005
55     Norway                                       1,577    2007
56     Ecuador                                      1,500    2006
57     Angola                                       1,300    2007
58     Turkmenistan                                 1,300    2006
59     Guinea                                       1,300    2005
60     Ghana                                        1,293    2007
61     Afghanistan                                  1,200    2007
62     Turkey                                       1,200    2005
63     Suriname                                     1,200    2005
64     Congo, Republic of the                       1,125    2006
65     Uzbekistan                                   1,100    2006
66     Senegal                                      1,000    2005
67     Spain                                        1,000    2003
68     Guatemala                                     990     2007
69     Cote d'Ivoire                                 980     2006
70     Ireland                                       956     2007
71     Syria                                         900     2005
72     Iran                                          850     2006
73     Belize                                        825     2007
74     Panama                                        800     2007
75     Sierra Leone                                  800     2005
76     Croatia                                       785     2007
77     Costa Rica                                    730     2007
78     Malawi                                        700     2007
79     Czech Republic                                664     2006
80     Canada                                        636     2007
81     Kyrgyzstan                                    600     2007
82     Madagascar                                    600     2006
83     Serbia                                        587     2005
84     Mongolia                                      580     2004
85     Bulgaria                                      470     2007
86     Honduras                                      465     2007
87     Mozambique                                    460     2007
88     Lithuania                                     441     2006
89     Moldova                                       424     2007
90     Denmark                                       400     2007
91     Gambia, The                                   390     2006
92     Austria                                       358     2007
93     Estonia                                       320     2006
94     Latvia                                        300     2006
95     Niger                                         300     2005
96     Cuba                                          240     2007
97     Portugal                                      210     2006
98     Brunei                                        209     2007
99     Fiji                                          203     2006
100    Tajikistan                                    200     2006
101    Slovakia                                      172     2005
102    Sri Lanka                                     160     2006
103    Benin                                         150     2005
104    Switzerland                                    65     2003
105    Togo                                           50     2005
106    Albania                                        43     2007
107    Luxembourg                                     37     2007
108    Liechtenstein                                  28     2006
109    Greece                                          6     2007
110    Kiribati                                        5     2007

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2095

Rank   Country                           Labor force         Date of Information

1      World                                  3,131,000,000  2007 est.
2      China                                   800,700,000   2007 est.
3      India                                   516,400,000   2007 est.
4      European Union                          222,700,000   2006 est.
5      United States                           153,100,000   2007 est.
6      Indonesia                               109,900,000   2007 est.
7      Brazil                                   99,230,000   2007 est.
8      Russia                                   75,100,000   2007 est.
9      Bangladesh                               69,400,000   2007 est.
10     Japan                                    66,690,000   2007 est.
11     Nigeria                                  50,130,000   2007 est.
12     Pakistan                                 48,230,000   2007 est.
13     Vietnam                                  46,420,000   2007 est.
14     Mexico                                   44,710,000   2007 est.
15     Germany                                  43,540,000   2007 est.
16     Thailand                                 36,900,000   2007 est.
17     Philippines                              36,220,000   2007 est.
18     United Kingdom                           30,890,000   2007 est.
19     Burma                                    29,260,000   2007 est.
20     Iran                                     28,700,000   2006 est.
21     France                                   27,910,000   2007 est.
22     Ethiopia                                 27,270,000   1999
23     Italy                                    24,740,000   2007 est.
24     Korea, South                             24,220,000   2007 est.
25     Turkey                                   23,530,000   2007 est.
26     Spain                                    22,190,000   2007 est.
27     Egypt                                    22,100,000   2007 est.
28     Ukraine                                  21,580,000   2007 est.
29     Colombia                                 20,500,000   2007 est.
30     South Africa                             20,490,000   2007 est.
31     Tanzania                                 20,040,000   2007 est.
32     Korea, North                             20,000,000   2004 est.
33     Canada                                   17,950,000   2007 est.
34     Poland                                   16,860,000   2007 est.
35     Argentina                                16,030,000   2007 est.
36     Afghanistan                              15,000,000   2004 est.
37     Congo, Democratic Republic of the         15,000,000  2006 est.
38     Uzbekistan                               14,600,000   2007 est.
39     Uganda                                   14,020,000   2007 est.
40     Venezuela                                12,370,000   2007 est.
41     Kenya                                    11,850,000   2005 est.
42     Morocco                                  11,390,000   2007 est.
43     Ghana                                    11,290,000   2007 est.
44     Nepal                                    11,110,000   2006 est.
45     Australia                                10,950,000   2007 est.
46     Malaysia                                 10,940,000   2007 est.
47     Taiwan                                   10,710,000   2007 est.
48     Peru                                      9,839,000   2007 est.
49     Mozambique                                9,600,000   2007 est.
50     Algeria                                   9,380,000   2007 est.
51     Romania                                   9,300,000   2007 est.
52     Kazakhstan                                8,229,000   2007 est.
53     Netherlands                               7,604,000   2007 est.
54     Sri Lanka                                 7,489,000   2007 est.
55     Sudan                                     7,415,000   1996 est.
56     Iraq                                      7,400,000   2004 est.
57     Madagascar                                7,300,000   2000
58     Chile                                     7,167,000   2007 est.
59     Angola                                    7,148,000   2007 est.
60     Cambodia                                  7,000,000   2003 est.
61     Cote d'Ivoire                             6,907,000   2007 est.
62     Cameroon                                  6,674,000   2007 est.
63     Saudi Arabia                              6,563,000   2007 est.
64     Yemen                                     6,305,000   2007 est.
65     Portugal                                  5,618,000   2007 est.
66     Syria                                     5,462,000   2007 est.
67     Mali                                      5,400,000   2007 est.
68     Benin                                     5,380,000   2007 est.
69     Czech Republic                            5,360,000   2007 est.
70     Azerbaijan                                5,243,000   2007 est.
71     Burkina Faso                              5,000,000   2003
72     Zambia                                    4,989,000   2007 est.
73     Cuba                                      4,956,000   2007 est.
74     Belgium                                   4,940,000   2007 est.
75     Greece                                    4,920,000   2007 est.
76     Senegal                                   4,850,000   2007 est.
77     Sweden                                    4,839,000   2007 est.
78     Rwanda                                    4,600,000   2000
79     Ecuador                                   4,510,000   2007 est.
80     Malawi                                    4,500,000   2001 est.
81     Bolivia                                   4,377,000   2007 est.
82     Belarus                                   4,300,000   31 December 2005
83     Hungary                                   4,190,000   2007 est.
84     Zimbabwe                                  4,032,000   2007 est.
85     Dominican Republic                        4,027,000   2007 est.
86     Guatemala                                 3,958,000   2007 est.
87     Switzerland                               3,954,000   2007 est.
88     Chad                                      3,747,000   2006
89     Guinea                                    3,700,000   2006 est.
90     Somalia                                   3,700,000   1975
91     Hong Kong                                 3,640,000   2007 est.
92     Haiti                                     3,600,000   1995
93     Tunisia                                   3,593,000   2007 est.
94     Austria                                   3,566,000   2007 est.
95     Papua New Guinea                          3,557,000   2007 est.
96     United Arab Emirates                      3,065,000   2007 est.
97     Burundi                                   2,990,000   2002
98     Serbia                                    2,961,000   2002 est.
99     El Salvador                               2,913,000   2007 est.
100    Israel                                    2,894,000   2007 est.
101    Denmark                                   2,860,000   2007 est.
102    Paraguay                                  2,787,000   2007 est.
103    Honduras                                  2,779,000   2007 est.
104    Singapore                                 2,751,000   2007 est.
105    Kyrgyzstan                                2,700,000   2000
106    Finland                                   2,675,000   2007 est.
107    Slovakia                                  2,654,000   2007 est.
108    Bulgaria                                  2,593,000   2007 est.
109    Norway                                    2,507,000   2007 est.
110    Nicaragua                                 2,262,000   2007 est.
111    New Zealand                               2,236,000   2007 est.
112    Ireland                                   2,217,000   2007 est.
113    Laos                                      2,100,000   2006 est.
114    Tajikistan                                2,100,000   2007
115    Kuwait                                    2,093,000   2007 est.
116    Turkmenistan                              2,089,000   2004 est.
117    Georgia                                   2,020,000   2007 est.
118    Costa Rica                                1,920,000   2007 est.
119    Central African Republic                  1,857,000   2006
120    Libya                                     1,830,000   2007 est.
121    Croatia                                   1,749,000   2007 est.
122    Uruguay                                   1,631,000   2007 est.
123    Lithuania                                 1,603,000   2007 est.
124    Jordan                                    1,563,000   2007 est.
125    Lebanon                                   1,500,000   2005 est.
126    Sierra Leone                              1,369,000   1981 est.
127    Panama                                    1,362,000   2007 est.
128    Moldova                                   1,333,000   2007 est.
129    Togo                                      1,302,000   1998
130    Puerto Rico                               1,300,000   2000
131    Jamaica                                   1,255,000   2007 est.
132    Armenia                                   1,200,000   2007 est.
133    Latvia                                    1,167,000   2007 est.
134    Albania                                   1,090,000   September 2006 est.
135    Mongolia                                  1,042,000   2006
136    Bosnia and Herzegovina                    1,026,000   2001
137    Slovenia                                   925,000    2007 est.
138    Oman                                       920,000    2002 est.
139    Macedonia                                  890,000    2007 est.
140    Qatar                                      881,000    2007 est.
141    Lesotho                                    838,000    2000 est.
142    Kosovo                                     832,000    June 2007 est.
143    Mauritania                                 786,000    2001
144    Estonia                                    687,000    2007 est.
145    Namibia                                    660,000    2007 est.
146    Trinidad and Tobago                        622,000    2007 est.
147    West Bank                                  605,000    2006
148    Gabon                                      582,000    2007 est.
149    Mauritius                                  574,000    2007 est.
150    Guinea-Bissau                              480,000    1999
151    Bahrain                                    437,000    2007 est.
152    Guyana                                     418,000    2001 est.
153    Gambia, The                                400,000    1996
154    Cyprus                                     393,000    2007 est.
155    Swaziland                                  300,000    2006
156    Botswana                                   288,400    2004
157    Djibouti                                   282,000    2000
158    Macau                                      275,000    2006
159    Gaza Strip                                 267,000    2006
160    Montenegro                                 259,100    2004
161    Solomon Islands                            249,200    1999
162    Luxembourg                                 205,000    2007 est.
163    Bahamas, The                               181,900    2006
164    Iceland                                    181,000    2007 est.
165    Brunei                                     180,400    2006 est.
166    Malta                                      166,000    2007 est.
167    Suriname                                   156,700    2004
168    Comoros                                    144,500    1996 est.
169    Barbados                                   128,500    2001 est.
170    Cape Verde                                 120,600    1990
171    Fiji                                       117,500    2006 est.
172    Belize                                     113,000    2006 est.
173    Maldives                                   101,300    2004
174    Samoa                                       90,000    2000 est.
175    Netherlands Antilles                        83,600    2005
176    New Caledonia                               78,990    2004
177    Vanuatu                                     76,410    1999
178    Niger                                       70,000    1995
179    French Polynesia                            65,930    December 2005
180    Guam                                        62,050    2002 est.
181    Jersey                                      53,560    June 2006
182    Mayotte                                     44,560    2002
183    Northern Mariana Islands                    44,470    2000
184    Monaco                                      44,000    2005 est.
185    Virgin Islands                              43,980    2004 est.
186    Saint Lucia                                 43,800    2001 est.
187    Andorra                                     42,420    2005
188    Grenada                                     42,300    1996
189    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines            41,680    1991 est.
190    Aruba                                       41,500    2004 est.
191    Isle of Man                                 39,690    2001
192    Seychelles                                  39,560    2006
193    Bermuda                                     38,360    2004
194    Micronesia, Federated States of             37,410    2000
195    Sao Tome and Principe                       35,050    1991
196    Tonga                                       33,910    2003
197    Greenland                                   32,120    2004
198    Guernsey                                    31,470    March 2006
199    Antigua and Barbuda                         30,000    1991
200    Liechtenstein                               29,500    31 December 2001
201    Dominica                                    25,000    2000 est.
202    Faroe Islands                               24,250    October 2000
203    Cayman Islands                              23,450    2004
204    San Marino                                  20,470    2004
205    Saint Kitts and Nevis                       18,170    June 1995
206    American Samoa                              17,630    2005
207    Marshall Islands                            14,680    2000
208    British Virgin Islands                      12,770    2004
209    Gibraltar                                   12,690    2001
210    Western Sahara                              12,000    2005 est.
211    Palau                                        9,777    2005
212    Kiribati                                     7,870    2001 est.
213    Cook Islands                                 6,820    2001
214    Anguilla                                     6,049    2001
215    Turks and Caicos Islands                     4,848    1990 est.
216    Montserrat                                   4,521    2000 est.
217    Tuvalu                                       3,615    2004 est.
218    Saint Pierre and Miquelon                    3,450    2005
219    Wallis and Futuna                            3,104    2003
220    Saint Helena                                 2,486    1998 est.
221    Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)             1,724   1996
222    Niue                                          663     2001
223    Tokelau                                       440     2001
224    Pitcairn Islands                               15     2004

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2102

Rank   Country                           Life expectancy at birth(years)  Date of Information

1      Macau                                 84.33           2008 est.
2      Andorra                               82.67           2008 est.
3      Japan                                 82.07           2008 est.
4      Singapore                             81.89           2008 est.
5      San Marino                            81.88           2008 est.
6      Hong Kong                             81.77           2008 est.
7      Australia                             81.53           2008 est.
8      Canada                                81.16           2008 est.
9      France                                80.87           2008 est.
10     Sweden                                80.74           2008 est.
11     Switzerland                           80.74           2008 est.
12     Guernsey                              80.65           2008 est.
13     Israel                                80.61           2008 est.
14     Iceland                               80.55           2008 est.
15     Anguilla                              80.53           2008 est.
16     Cayman Islands                        80.32           2008 est.
17     New Zealand                           80.24           2008 est.
18     Italy                                 80.07           2008 est.
19     Gibraltar                             80.06           2008 est.
20     Monaco                                79.96           2008 est.
21     Liechtenstein                         79.95           2008 est.
22     Spain                                 79.92           2008 est.
23     Norway                                79.81           2008 est.
24     Jersey                                79.65           2008 est.
25     Greece                                79.52           2008 est.
26     Austria                               79.36           2008 est.
27     Malta                                 79.30           2008 est.
28     Faroe Islands                         79.29           2008 est.
29     Netherlands                           79.25           2008 est.
30     Luxembourg                            79.18           2008 est.
31     Germany                               79.10           2008 est.
32     Belgium                               79.07           2008 est.
33     Guam                                  78.93           2008 est.
34     Virgin Islands                        78.92           2008 est.
35     Saint Pierre and Miquelon             78.91           2008 est.
36     United Kingdom                        78.85           2008 est.
37     Finland                               78.82           2008 est.
38     Isle of Man                           78.80           2008 est.
39     Jordan                                78.71           2008 est.
40     Korea, South                          78.64           2008 est.
41     Puerto Rico                           78.58           2008 est.
42     Bosnia and Herzegovina                78.33           2008 est.
43     Bermuda                               78.30           2008 est.
44     Saint Helena                          78.27           2008 est.
45     Cyprus                                78.15           2008 est.
46     United States                         78.14           2008 est.
47     Denmark                               78.13           2008 est.
48     Ireland                               78.07           2008 est.
49     Portugal                              78.04           2008 est.
50     Albania                               77.78           2008 est.
51     Taiwan                                77.76           2008 est.
52     Kuwait                                77.53           2008 est.
53     Costa Rica                            77.40           2008 est.
54     European Union                        77.32           2008 est.
55     Cuba                                  77.27           2008 est.
56     Chile                                 77.15           2008 est.
57     Libya                                 77.07           2008 est.
58     British Virgin Islands                77.07           2008 est.
59     Panama                                76.88           2008 est.
60     Ecuador                               76.81           2008 est.
61     Slovenia                              76.73           2008 est.
62     Czech Republic                        76.62           2008 est.
63     French Polynesia                      76.51           2008 est.
64     Georgia                               76.51           2008 est.
65     Northern Mariana Islands              76.50           2008 est.
66     Netherlands Antilles                  76.45           2008 est.
67     Argentina                             76.36           2008 est.
68     Saint Lucia                           76.25           2008 est.
69     Uruguay                               76.14           2008 est.
70     Saudi Arabia                          76.09           2008 est.
71     United Arab Emirates                  75.89           2008 est.
72     Mexico                                75.84           2008 est.
73     Paraguay                              75.56           2008 est.
74     Tunisia                               75.56           2008 est.
75     Brunei                                75.52           2008 est.
76     Poland                                75.41           2008 est.
77     Dominica                              75.33           2008 est.
78     Serbia                                75.29           2008 est.
79     Qatar                                 75.19           2008 est.
80     Turks and Caicos Islands              75.19           2008 est.
81     Slovakia                              75.17           2008 est.
82     Croatia                               75.13           2008 est.
83     Aruba                                 75.06           2008 est.
84     Sri Lanka                             74.97           2008 est.
85     Bahrain                               74.92           2008 est.
86     New Caledonia                         74.75           2008 est.
87     Lithuania                             74.67           2008 est.
88     Macedonia                             74.45           2008 est.
89     Saint Vincent and the Grenadines      74.34           2008 est.
90     West Bank                             74.29           2008 est.
91     Antigua and Barbuda                   74.25           2008 est.
92     Oman                                  73.91           2008 est.
93     Algeria                               73.77           2008 est.
94     Mauritius                             73.75           2008 est.
95     Maldives                              73.72           2008 est.
96     Jamaica                               73.59           2008 est.
97     Suriname                              73.48           2008 est.
98     American Samoa                        73.47           2008 est.
99     Venezuela                             73.45           2008 est.
100    Solomon Islands                       73.44           2008 est.
101    Lebanon                               73.41           2008 est.
102    Dominican Republic                    73.39           2008 est.
103    Barbados                              73.21           2008 est.
104    China                                 73.18           2008 est.
105    Hungary                               73.18           2008 est.
106    Gaza Strip                            73.16           2008 est.
107    Turkey                                73.14           2008 est.
108    Malaysia                              73.03           2008 est.
109    Saint Kitts and Nevis                 72.94           2008 est.
110    Bulgaria                              72.83           2008 est.
111    Thailand                              72.83           2008 est.
112    Montserrat                            72.60           2008 est.
113    Seychelles                            72.60           2008 est.
114    Estonia                               72.56           2008 est.
115    Colombia                              72.54           2008 est.
116    Armenia                               72.40           2008 est.
117    Korea, North                          72.20           2008 est.
118    Romania                               72.18           2008 est.
119    El Salvador                           72.06           2008 est.
120    Latvia                                71.88           2008 est.
121    Egypt                                 71.85           2008 est.
122    Brazil                                71.71           2008 est.
123    Uzbekistan                            71.69           2008 est.
124    Samoa                                 71.58           2008 est.
125    Morocco                               71.52           2008 est.
126    Cape Verde                            71.33           2008 est.
127    Vietnam                               71.33           2008 est.
128    Nicaragua                             71.21           2008 est.
129    Palau                                 71.00           2008 est.
130    Marshall Islands                      70.90           2008 est.
131    Syria                                 70.90           2008 est.
132    Iran                                  70.86           2008 est.
133    Philippines                           70.80           2008 est.
134    Micronesia, Federated States of       70.65           2008 est.
135    Moldova                               70.50           2008 est.
136    Indonesia                             70.46           2008 est.
137    Fiji                                  70.44           2008 est.
138    Peru                                  70.44           2008 est.
139    Tonga                                 70.44           2008 est.
140    Belarus                               70.34           2008 est.
141    Guatemala                             69.99           2008 est.
142    Iraq                                  69.62           2008 est.
143    Greenland                             69.46           2008 est.
144    Honduras                              69.37           2008 est.
145    India                                 69.25           2008 est.
146    Kyrgyzstan                            69.12           2008 est.
147    Tuvalu                                68.97           2008 est.
148    Turkmenistan                          68.60           2008 est.
149    Belize                                68.19           2008 est.
150    Ukraine                               68.06           2008 est.
151    Sao Tome and Principe                 68.00           2008 est.
152    Kazakhstan                            67.55           2008 est.
153    Mongolia                              67.32           2008 est.
154    Trinidad and Tobago                   67.00           2008 est.
155    Timor-Leste                           66.94           2008 est.
156    Bolivia                               66.53           2008 est.
157    Guyana                                66.43           2008 est.
158    Azerbaijan                            66.31           2008 est.
159    World                                 66.26           2008 est.
160    Papua New Guinea                      66.00           2008 est.
161    Russia                                65.94           2008 est.
162    Bahamas, The                          65.72           2008 est.
163    Grenada                               65.60           2008 est.
164    Bhutan                                65.53           2008 est.
165    Tajikistan                            64.97           2008 est.
166    Pakistan                              64.13           2008 est.
167    Nauru                                 63.81           2008 est.
168    Vanuatu                               63.61           2008 est.
169    Bangladesh                            63.21           2008 est.
170    Comoros                               63.10           2008 est.
171    Burma                                 62.94           2008 est.
172    Yemen                                 62.90           2008 est.
173    Kiribati                              62.85           2008 est.
174    Mayotte                               62.54           2008 est.
175    Madagascar                            62.52           2008 est.
176    Cambodia                              61.69           2008 est.
177    Eritrea                               61.38           2008 est.
178    Equatorial Guinea                     61.23           2008 est.
179    Nepal                                 60.94           2008 est.
180    Ghana                                 59.49           2008 est.
181    Benin                                 58.56           2008 est.
182    Togo                                  58.28           2008 est.
183    Haiti                                 57.56           2008 est.
184    Senegal                               57.08           2008 est.
185    Kenya                                 56.64           2008 est.
186    Guinea                                56.58           2008 est.
187    Laos                                  56.29           2008 est.
188    Ethiopia                              54.99           2008 est.
189    Gambia, The                           54.95           2008 est.
190    Cote d'Ivoire                         54.64           2008 est.
191    Congo, Democratic Republic of the      53.98          2008 est.
192    Western Sahara                        53.92           2008 est.
193    Mauritania                            53.91           2008 est.
194    Congo, Republic of the                53.74           2008 est.
195    Gabon                                 53.52           2008 est.
196    Cameroon                              53.30           2008 est.
197    Burkina Faso                          52.55           2008 est.
198    Uganda                                52.34           2008 est.
199    Burundi                               51.71           2008 est.
200    Tanzania                              51.45           2008 est.
201    Sudan                                 50.28           2008 est.
202    Botswana                              50.16           2008 est.
203    Mali                                  49.94           2008 est.
204    Namibia                               49.89           2008 est.
205    Rwanda                                49.76           2008 est.
206    Somalia                               49.25           2008 est.
207    South Africa                          48.89           2008 est.
208    Guinea-Bissau                         47.52           2008 est.
209    Chad                                  47.43           2008 est.
210    Nigeria                               46.53           2008 est.
211    Niger                                 44.28           2008 est.
212    Zimbabwe                              44.28           2008 est.
213    Central African Republic              44.22           2008 est.
214    Afghanistan                           44.21           2008 est.
215    Malawi                                43.45           2008 est.
216    Djibouti                              43.31           2008 est.
217    Liberia                               41.13           2008 est.
218    Mozambique                            41.04           2008 est.
219    Sierra Leone                          40.93           2008 est.
220    Lesotho                               40.17           2008 est.
221    Zambia                                38.59           2008 est.
222    Angola                                37.92           2008 est.
223    Swaziland                             31.99           2008 est.

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2108

Rank   Country                           Merchant marine     Date of Information

1      Panama                                       6,323    2008
2      Liberia                                      2,204    2008
3      China                                        1,826    2008
4      Malta                                        1,438    2008
5      Singapore                                    1,292    2008
6      Bahamas, The                                 1,223    2008
7      Antigua and Barbuda                          1,146    2008
8      Hong Kong                                    1,114    2008
9      Russia                                       1,074    2008
10     Marshall Islands                             1,049    2008
11     Indonesia                                     971     2008
12     Greece                                        869     2008
13     Cyprus                                        858     2008
14     Korea, South                                  812     2008
15     Norway                                        688     2008
16     Japan                                         683     2008
17     Cambodia                                      626     2008
18     Netherlands                                   622     2008
19     Turkey                                        612     2008
20     Italy                                         609     2008
21     Saint Vincent and the Grenadines              525     2008
22     United Kingdom                                518     2008
23     India                                         501     2008
24     United States                                 422     2008
25     Thailand                                      398     2008
26     Germany                                       393     2008
27     Philippines                                   391     2008
28     Vietnam                                       387     2008
29     Denmark                                       327     2008
30     Malaysia                                      306     2008
31     Isle of Man                                   273     2008
32     Gibraltar                                     240     2008
33     Belize                                        216     2008
34     Sweden                                        195     2008
35     Georgia                                       191     2008
36     Ukraine                                       189     2008
37     Sierra Leone                                  182     2008
38     Canada                                        175     2008
39     Korea, North                                  167     2008
40     Saint Kitts and Nevis                         159     2008
41     Spain                                         158     2008
42     Netherlands Antilles                          147     2008
43     France                                        138     2008
44     Bermuda                                       137     2008
45     Brazil                                        136     2008
46     Comoros                                       136     2008
47     Honduras                                      123     2008
48     Portugal                                      117     2008
49     Cayman Islands                                109     2008
50     Taiwan                                        102     2008
51     Finland                                        98     2008
52     Azerbaijan                                     89     2008
53     Barbados                                       85     2008
54     Croatia                                        80     2008
55     Tuvalu                                         80     2008
56     Belgium                                        79     2008
57     Mongolia                                       77     2008
58     Syria                                          77     2008
59     Bulgaria                                       74     2008
60     Iran                                           74     2008
61     Monaco                                         70     2008
62     Nigeria                                        68     2008
63     Egypt                                          67     2008
64     Saudi Arabia                                   62     2008
65     Venezuela                                      62     2008
66     United Arab Emirates                           58     2008
67     Mexico                                         55     2008
68     Vanuatu                                        54     2008
69     Dominica                                       53     2008
70     Slovakia                                       51     2008
71     Australia                                      50     2008
72     Argentina                                      46     2008
73     Lithuania                                      45     2008
74     Luxembourg                                     45     2008
75     Chile                                          44     2008
76     Kiribati                                       43     2008
77     Bangladesh                                     40     2008
78     Moldova                                        39     2008
79     Kuwait                                         38     2008
80     Ecuador                                        37     2008
81     Morocco                                        35     2008
82     Switzerland                                    35     2008
83     Algeria                                        33     2008
84     Lebanon                                        33     2008
85     Ireland                                        29     2008
86     Maldives                                       29     2008
87     Estonia                                        29     2008
88     Slovenia                                       29     2008
89     Sri Lanka                                      26     2008
90     Cook Islands                                   26     2008
91     Albania                                        24     2008
92     Burma                                          24     2008
93     Bolivia                                        23     2008
94     Paraguay                                       23     2008
95     Latvia                                         22     2008
96     Qatar                                          22     2008
97     Jordan                                         21     2008
98     Papua New Guinea                               21     2008
99     Jamaica                                        20     2008
100    Colombia                                       17     2008
101    Libya                                          17     2008
102    Uruguay                                        17     2008
103    Romania                                        17     2008
104    French Polynesia                               15     2008
105    Pakistan                                       15     2008
106    Poland                                         15     2008
107    Iraq                                           14     2008
108    New Zealand                                    13     2008
109    Tonga                                          13     2008
110    Faroe Islands                                  12     2008
111    Cuba                                           11     2008
112    Israel                                         11     2008
113    Togo                                           10     2008
114    Bahrain                                         9     2008
115    Ethiopia                                        9     2008
116    Fiji                                            9     2008
117    Tanzania                                        9     2008
118    Trinidad and Tobago                             9     2008
119    Brunei                                          8     2008
120    Madagascar                                      8     2008
121    Seychelles                                      8     2008
122    Wallis and Futuna                               8     2008
123    Peru                                            8     2008
124    Guyana                                          8     2008
125    Cape Verde                                      8     2008
126    Tunisia                                         7     2008
127    Turkmenistan                                    7     2008
128    Angola                                          6     2008
129    Montenegro                                      6     2008
130    Sao Tome and Principe                           6     2008
131    Eritrea                                         5     2008
132    Kazakhstan                                      5     2008
133    Gambia, The                                     5     2008
134    Austria                                         4     2008
135    Yemen                                           4     2008
136    Ghana                                           4     2008
137    Micronesia, Federated States of                 3     2008
138    South Africa                                    3     2008
139    Sudan                                           3     2008
140    Puerto Rico                                     3     2008
141    Mauritius                                       3     2008
142    Oman                                            3     2008
143    Gabon                                           2     2008
144    Greenland                                       2     2008
145    Iceland                                         2     2008
146    New Caledonia                                   2     2008
147    Mozambique                                      2     2008
148    Congo, Republic of the                          1     2008
149    Dominican Republic                              1     2008
150    Czech Republic                                  1     2008
151    Suriname                                        1     2008
152    Turks and Caicos Islands                        1     2008
153    British Virgin Islands                          1     2008
154    Samoa                                           1     2008
155    Namibia                                         1     2008
156    Timor-Leste                                     1     2008
157    Somalia                                         1     2008
158    Equatorial Guinea                               1     2008
159    Laos                                            1     2008
160    Kenya                                           1     2008
161    Costa Rica                                      1     2008
162    Congo, Democratic Republic of the                1    2008

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2112

Rank   Country                           Net migration rate(migrant(s)/1,000 population)  Date of Information

1      Macau                                       26.21     2008 est.
2      United Arab Emirates                        24.41     2008 est.
3      Afghanistan                                 21.00     2008 est.
4      Cayman Islands                              16.88     2008 est.
5      Kuwait                                      16.39     2008 est.
6      Liberia                                     15.14     2008 est.
7      Anguilla                                    14.60     2008 est.
8      Andorra                                     13.99     2008 est.
9      San Marino                                  10.44     2008 est.
10     Aruba                                        9.85     2008 est.
11     Turks and Caicos Islands                     9.48     2008 est.
12     Luxembourg                                   8.54     2008 est.
13     British Virgin Islands                       8.44     2008 est.
14     Monaco                                       7.62     2008 est.
15     Northern Mariana Islands                     7.04     2008 est.
16     Singapore                                    6.88     2008 est.
17     Bosnia and Herzegovina                       6.38     2008 est.
18     Australia                                    6.34     2008 est.
19     Jordan                                       5.97     2008 est.
20     Burundi                                      5.62     2008 est.
21     Canada                                       5.62     2008 est.
22     Botswana                                     5.41     2008 est.
23     Isle of Man                                  5.25     2008 est.
24     South Africa                                 4.98     2008 est.
25     Ireland                                      4.76     2008 est.
26     Liechtenstein                                4.70     2008 est.
27     Hong Kong                                    4.55     2008 est.
28     Guernsey                                     3.80     2008 est.
29     Portugal                                     3.23     2008 est.
30     United States                                2.92     2008 est.
31     French Polynesia                             2.77     2008 est.
32     Brunei                                       2.74     2008 est.
33     Jersey                                       2.73     2008 est.
34     New Zealand                                  2.62     2008 est.
35     Netherlands                                  2.55     2008 est.
36     Israel                                       2.52     2008 est.
37     Denmark                                      2.49     2008 est.
38     Antigua and Barbuda                          2.41     2008 est.
39     Greece                                       2.33     2008 est.
40     Rwanda                                       2.29     2008 est.
41     Bermuda                                      2.28     2008 est.
42     Mayotte                                      2.22     2008 est.
43     Switzerland                                  2.21     2008 est.
44     Germany                                      2.19     2008 est.
45     United Kingdom                               2.17     2008 est.
46     Italy                                        2.06     2008 est.
47     Malta                                        2.03     2008 est.
48     Austria                                      1.88     2008 est.
49     Angola                                       1.72     2008 est.
50     Norway                                       1.71     2008 est.
51     Sweden                                       1.66     2008 est.
52     Croatia                                      1.58     2008 est.
53     France                                       1.48     2008 est.
54     Congo, Democratic Republic of the             1.24    2008 est.
55     European Union                               1.23     2008 est.
56     Belgium                                      1.22     2008 est.
57     Iceland                                      1.13     2008 est.
58     Spain                                        0.99     2008 est.
59     Czech Republic                               0.97     2008 est.
60     Palau                                        0.90     2008 est.
61     Hungary                                      0.86     2008 est.
62     Finland                                      0.73     2008 est.
63     Sudan                                        0.67     2008 est.
64     Slovenia                                     0.64     2008 est.
65     Gambia, The                                  0.61     2008 est.
66     Costa Rica                                   0.48     2008 est.
67     Cyprus                                       0.42     2008 est.
68     Bahrain                                      0.40     2008 est.
69     Belarus                                      0.38     2008 est.
70     Namibia                                      0.35     2008 est.
71     Oman                                         0.33     2008 est.
72     Slovakia                                     0.30     2008 est.
73     Russia                                       0.28     2008 est.
74     Uganda                                       0.21     2008 est.
75     Taiwan                                       0.04     2008 est.
76     Argentina                                    0.00     2008 est.
77     Gibraltar                                    0.00     2008 est.
78     Benin                                        0.00     2008 est.
79     Gaza Strip                                   0.00     2008 est.
80     Kenya                                        0.00     2008 est.
81     West Bank                                    0.00     2008 est.
82     Turkey                                       0.00     2008 est.
83     Somalia                                      0.00     2008 est.
84     Sierra Leone                                 0.00     2008 est.
85     Senegal                                      0.00     2008 est.
86     Guinea-Bissau                                0.00     2008 est.
87     India                                       -0.05     2008 est.
88     Paraguay                                    -0.07     2008 est.
89     Brazil                                      -0.09     2008 est.
90     Mauritius                                   -0.09     2008 est.
91     Nigeria                                     -0.10     2008 est.
92     Ukraine                                     -0.12     2008 est.
93     Romania                                     -0.13     2008 est.
94     Uruguay                                     -0.18     2008 est.
95     Egypt                                       -0.21     2008 est.
96     Colombia                                    -0.28     2008 est.
97     Algeria                                     -0.31     2008 est.
98     Barbados                                    -0.31     2008 est.
99     China                                       -0.39     2008 est.
100    Vietnam                                     -0.39     2008 est.
101    Netherlands Antilles                        -0.39     2008 est.
102    Tunisia                                     -0.44     2008 est.
103    Poland                                      -0.46     2008 est.
104    Pakistan                                    -0.51     2008 est.
105    Suriname                                    -0.52     2008 est.
106    Panama                                      -0.53     2008 est.
107    Ghana                                       -0.55     2008 est.
108    Macedonia                                   -0.57     2008 est.
109    Niger                                       -0.57     2008 est.
110    Haiti                                       -0.61     2008 est.
111    Bangladesh                                  -0.65     2008 est.
112    Lithuania                                   -0.72     2008 est.
113    Morocco                                     -0.77     2008 est.
114    Lesotho                                     -0.78     2008 est.
115    Faroe Islands                               -0.82     2008 est.
116    Venezuela                                   -0.84     2008 est.
117    Peru                                        -0.97     2008 est.
118    Puerto Rico                                 -1.03     2008 est.
119    Sri Lanka                                   -1.12     2008 est.
120    Moldova                                     -1.13     2008 est.
121    Nicaragua                                   -1.13     2008 est.
122    Bolivia                                     -1.14     2008 est.
123    Indonesia                                   -1.25     2008 est.
124    Tajikistan                                  -1.31     2008 est.
125    Honduras                                    -1.33     2008 est.
126    Philippines                                 -1.36     2008 est.
127    Tanzania                                    -1.48     2008 est.
128    Cuba                                        -1.57     2008 est.
129    Guinea                                      -1.63     2008 est.
130    Azerbaijan                                  -1.97     2008 est.
131    Sao Tome and Principe                       -1.97     2008 est.
132    Bahamas, The                                -2.14     2008 est.
133    Guatemala                                   -2.26     2008 est.
134    Qatar                                       -2.28     2008 est.
135    Latvia                                      -2.29     2008 est.
136    Saint Kitts and Nevis                       -2.31     2008 est.
137    Dominican Republic                          -2.40     2008 est.
138    Congo, Republic of the                      -2.52     2008 est.
139    Kyrgyzstan                                  -2.55     2008 est.
140    Fiji                                        -2.62     2008 est.
141    Zambia                                      -2.63     2008 est.
142    Turkmenistan                                -3.00     2008 est.
143    Uzbekistan                                  -3.04     2008 est.
144    Estonia                                     -3.24     2008 est.
145    Chad                                        -3.27     2008 est.
146    Iran                                        -3.28     2008 est.
147    Kazakhstan                                  -3.31     2008 est.
148    El Salvador                                 -3.40     2008 est.
149    Bulgaria                                    -3.41     2008 est.
150    Gabon                                       -3.62     2008 est.
151    Mexico                                      -3.84     2008 est.
152    Saint Lucia                                 -4.33     2008 est.
153    Georgia                                     -4.36     2008 est.
154    Albania                                     -4.41     2008 est.
155    Armenia                                     -4.95     2008 est.
156    Saint Pierre and Miquelon                   -4.97     2008 est.
157    Seychelles                                  -5.11     2008 est.
158    Dominica                                    -5.46     2008 est.
159    Marshall Islands                            -5.52     2008 est.
160    Virgin Islands                              -5.72     2008 est.
161    Jamaica                                     -5.88     2008 est.
162    Mali                                        -5.97     2008 est.
163    Greenland                                   -5.99     2008 est.
164    Saudi Arabia                                -6.82     2008 est.
165    American Samoa                              -7.17     2008 est.
166    Guyana                                      -7.45     2008 est.
167    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines            -7.56     2008 est.
168    Ecuador                                     -7.98     2008 est.
169    Samoa                                       -9.14     2008 est.
170    Trinidad and Tobago                        -11.20     2008 est.
171    Grenada                                    -11.23     2008 est.
172    Cape Verde                                 -11.74     2008 est.
173    Micronesia, Federated States of            -21.04     2008 est.

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2119

Rank   Country                           Population          Date of Information

1      World                                  6,706,993,152  July 2008 est.
2      China                                  1,330,044,544  July 2008 est.
3      India                                  1,147,995,904  July 2008 est.
4      European Union                          491,018,683   July 2008 est.
5      United States                           303,824,640   July 2008 est.
6      Indonesia                               237,512,352   July 2008 est.
7      Brazil                                  196,342,592   July 2008 est.
8      Pakistan                                172,800,048   July 2008 est.
9      Bangladesh                              153,546,896   July 2008 est.
10     Nigeria                                 146,255,312   July 2008 est.
11     Russia                                  140,702,096   July 2008 est.
12     Japan                                   127,288,416   July 2008 est.
13     Mexico                                  109,955,400   July 2008 est.
14     Philippines                              96,061,680   July 2008 est.
15     Vietnam                                  86,116,560   July 2008 est.
16     Ethiopia                                 82,544,840   July 2008 est.
17     Germany                                  82,369,552   July 2008 est.
18     Egypt                                    81,713,520   July 2008 est.
19     Turkey                                   71,892,808   July 2008 est.
20     Congo, Democratic Republic of the         66,514,504  July 2008 est.
21     Iran                                     65,875,224   July 2008 est.
22     Thailand                                 65,493,296   July 2008 est.
23     France                                   64,057,792   July 2008 est.
24     United Kingdom                           60,943,912   July 2008 est.
25     Italy                                    58,145,320   July 2008 est.
26     South Africa                             48,782,756   July 2008 est.
27     Korea, South                             48,379,392   July 2008 est.
28     Burma                                    47,758,180   July 2008 est.
29     Ukraine                                  45,994,288   July 2008 est.
30     Colombia                                 45,013,672   July 2008 est.
31     Spain                                    40,491,052   July 2008 est.
32     Argentina                                40,482,000   July 2008 est.
33     Sudan                                    40,218,456   July 2008 est.
34     Tanzania                                 40,213,160   July 2008 est.
35     Poland                                   38,500,696   July 2008 est.
36     Kenya                                    37,953,840   July 2008 est.
37     Morocco                                  34,343,220   July 2008 est.
38     Algeria                                  33,769,668   July 2008 est.
39     Canada                                   33,212,696   July 2008 est.
40     Afghanistan                              32,738,376   July 2008 est.
41     Uganda                                   31,367,972   July 2008 est.
42     Nepal                                    29,519,114   July 2008 est.
43     Peru                                     29,180,900   July 2008 est.
44     Iraq                                     28,221,180   July 2008 est.
45     Saudi Arabia                             28,146,656   July 2008 est.
46     Uzbekistan                               27,345,026   July 2008 est.
47     Venezuela                                26,414,816   July 2008 est.
48     Malaysia                                 25,274,132   July 2008 est.
49     Korea, North                             23,479,088   July 2008 est.
50     Ghana                                    23,382,848   July 2008 est.
51     Yemen                                    23,013,376   July 2008 est.
52     Taiwan                                   22,920,946   July 2008 est.
53     Romania                                  22,246,862   July 2008 est.
54     Mozambique                               21,284,700   July 2008 est.
55     Sri Lanka                                21,128,772   July 2008 est.
56     Australia                                21,007,310   July 2008 est.
57     Cote d'Ivoire                            20,179,602   July 2008 est.
58     Madagascar                               20,042,552   July 2008 est.
59     Syria                                    19,747,586   July 2008 est.
60     Cameroon                                 18,467,692   July 2008 est.
61     Netherlands                              16,645,313   July 2008 est.
62     Chile                                    16,454,143   July 2008 est.
63     Kazakhstan                               15,340,533   July 2008 est.
64     Burkina Faso                             15,264,735   July 2008 est.
65     Cambodia                                 14,241,640   July 2008 est.
66     Malawi                                   13,931,831   July 2008 est.
67     Ecuador                                  13,927,650   July 2008 est.
68     Niger                                    13,272,679   July 2008 est.
69     Guatemala                                13,002,206   July 2008 est.
70     Senegal                                  12,853,259   July 2008 est.
71     Angola                                   12,531,357   July 2008 est.
72     Mali                                     12,324,029   July 2008 est.
73     Zambia                                   11,669,534   July 2008 est.
74     Cuba                                     11,423,952   July 2008 est.
75     Zimbabwe                                 11,350,111   July 2008 est.
76     Greece                                   10,722,816   July 2008 est.
77     Portugal                                 10,676,910   July 2008 est.
78     Belgium                                  10,403,951   July 2008 est.
79     Tunisia                                  10,383,577   July 2008 est.
80     Czech Republic                           10,220,911   July 2008 est.
81     Rwanda                                   10,186,063   July 2008 est.
82     Serbia                                   10,159,046   July 2008 est.
83     Chad                                     10,111,337   July 2008 est.
84     Hungary                                   9,930,915   July 2008 est.
85     Guinea                                    9,806,509   July 2008 est.
86     Belarus                                   9,685,768   July 2008 est.
87     Somalia                                   9,558,666   July 2008 est.
88     Dominican Republic                        9,507,133   July 2008 est.
89     Bolivia                                   9,247,816   July 2008 est.
90     Sweden                                    9,045,389   July 2008 est.
91     Haiti                                     8,924,553   July 2008 est.
92     Burundi                                   8,691,005   July 2008 est.
93     Benin                                     8,532,547   July 2008 est.
94     Austria                                   8,205,533   July 2008 est.
95     Azerbaijan                                8,177,717   July 2008 est.
96     Honduras                                  7,639,327   July 2008 est.
97     Switzerland                               7,581,520   July 2008 est.
98     Bulgaria                                  7,262,675   July 2008 est.
99     Tajikistan                                7,211,884   July 2008 est.
100    Israel                                    7,112,359   July 2008 est.
101    El Salvador                               7,066,403   July 2008 est.
102    Hong Kong                                 7,018,636   July 2008 est.
103    Paraguay                                  6,831,306   July 2008 est.
104    Laos                                      6,677,534   July 2008 est.
105    Sierra Leone                              6,294,774   July 2008 est.
106    Jordan                                    6,198,677   July 2008 est.
107    Libya                                     6,173,579   July 2008 est.
108    Papua New Guinea                          5,931,769   July 2008 est.
109    Togo                                      5,858,673   July 2008 est.
110    Nicaragua                                 5,785,846   July 2008 est.
111    Eritrea                                   5,502,026   July 2008 est.
112    Denmark                                   5,484,723   July 2008 est.
113    Slovakia                                  5,455,407   July 2008 est.
114    Kyrgyzstan                                5,356,869   July 2008 est.
115    Finland                                   5,244,749   July 2008 est.
116    Turkmenistan                              5,179,571   July 2008 est.
117    Norway                                    4,644,457   July 2008 est.
118    Georgia                                   4,630,841   July 2008 est.
119    United Arab Emirates                      4,621,399   July 2008 est.
120    Singapore                                 4,608,167   July 2008 est.
121    Bosnia and Herzegovina                    4,590,310   July 2008 est.
122    Croatia                                   4,491,543   July 2008 est.
123    Central African Republic                  4,444,330   July 2008 est.
124    Moldova                                   4,324,450   July 2008 est.
125    Costa Rica                                4,195,914   July 2008 est.
126    New Zealand                               4,173,460   July 2008 est.
127    Ireland                                   4,156,119   July 2008 est.
128    Lebanon                                   3,971,941   July 2008 est.
129    Puerto Rico                               3,958,128   July 2008 est.
130    Congo, Republic of the                    3,903,318   July 2008 est.
131    Albania                                   3,619,778   July 2008 est.
132    Lithuania                                 3,565,205   July 2008 est.
133    Uruguay                                   3,477,778   July 2008 est.
134    Mauritania                                3,364,940   July 2008 est.
135    Liberia                                   3,334,587   July 2008 est.
136    Oman                                      3,311,640   July 2008 est.
137    Panama                                    3,309,679   July 2008 est.
138    Mongolia                                  2,996,081   July 2008 est.
139    Armenia                                   2,968,586   July 2008 est.
140    Jamaica                                   2,804,332   July 2008 est.
141    Kuwait                                    2,596,799   July 2008 est.
142    West Bank                                 2,407,681   July 2008 est.
143    Latvia                                    2,245,423   July 2008 est.
144    Lesotho                                   2,128,180   July 2008 est.
145    Kosovo                                    2,126,708   2007 est.
146    Namibia                                   2,088,669   July 2008 est.
147    Macedonia                                 2,061,315   July 2008 est.
148    Slovenia                                  2,007,711   July 2008 est.
149    Botswana                                  1,842,323   July 2008 est.
150    Gambia, The                               1,735,464   July 2008 est.
151    Guinea-Bissau                             1,503,182   July 2008 est.
152    Gaza Strip                                1,500,202   July 2008 est.
153    Gabon                                     1,485,832   July 2008 est.
154    Estonia                                   1,307,605   July 2008 est.
155    Mauritius                                 1,274,189   July 2008 est.
156    Swaziland                                 1,128,814   July 2008 est.
157    Timor-Leste                               1,108,777   July 2008 est.
158    Trinidad and Tobago                       1,047,366   July 2008 est.
159    Fiji                                       931,741    July 2008 est.
160    Qatar                                      824,789    July 2008 est.
161    Cyprus                                     792,604    July 2008 est.
162    Guyana                                     770,794    July 2008 est.
163    Comoros                                    731,775    July 2008 est.
164    Bahrain                                    718,306    July 2008 est.
165    Bhutan                                     682,321    July 2008 est.
166    Montenegro                                 678,177    July 2008 est.
167    Equatorial Guinea                          616,459    July 2008 est.
168    Solomon Islands                            581,318    July 2008 est.
169    Macau                                      545,674    July 2008 est.
170    Djibouti                                   506,221    July 2008 est.
171    Luxembourg                                 486,006    July 2008 est.
172    Suriname                                   475,996    July 2008 est.
173    Cape Verde                                 426,998    July 2008 est.
174    Malta                                      403,532    July 2008 est.
175    Western Sahara                             393,831    July 2008 est.
176    Maldives                                   385,925    July 2008 est.
177    Brunei                                     381,371    July 2008 est.
178    Bahamas, The                               307,451    July 2008 est.
179    Iceland                                    304,367    July 2008 est.
180    Belize                                     301,270    July 2008 est.
181    French Polynesia                           283,019    July 2008 est.
182    Barbados                                   281,968    July 2008 est.
183    Netherlands Antilles                       225,369    July 2008 est.
184    New Caledonia                              224,824    July 2008 est.
185    Samoa                                      217,083    July 2008 est.
186    Mayotte                                    216,306    July 2008 est.
187    Vanuatu                                    215,446    July 2008 est.
188    Sao Tome and Principe                      206,178    July 2008 est.
189    Guam                                       175,877    July 2008 est.
190    Saint Lucia                                159,585    July 2008 est.
191    Tonga                                      119,009    July 2008 est.
192    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines           118,432    July 2008 est.
193    Kiribati                                   110,356    July 2008 est.
194    Virgin Islands                             109,840    July 2008 est.
195    Micronesia, Federated States of            107,665    July 2008 est.
196    Aruba                                      101,541    July 2008 est.
197    Jersey                                      91,533    July 2008 est.
198    Grenada                                     90,343    July 2008 est.
199    Northern Mariana Islands                    86,616    July 2008 est.
200    Antigua and Barbuda                         84,522    July 2008 est.
201    Andorra                                     82,627    July 2008 est.
202    Seychelles                                  82,247    July 2008 est.
203    Isle of Man                                 76,220    July 2008 est.
204    Dominica                                    72,514    July 2008 est.
205    Bermuda                                     66,536    July 2008 est.
206    Guernsey                                    65,726    July 2008 est.
207    American Samoa                              64,827    July 2008 est.
208    Marshall Islands                            63,174    July 2008 est.
209    Greenland                                   57,564    July 2008 est.
210    Faroe Islands                               48,668    July 2008 est.
211    Cayman Islands                              47,862    July 2008 est.
212    Saint Kitts and Nevis                       39,817    July 2008 est.
213    Liechtenstein                               34,498    July 2008 est.
214    Monaco                                      32,796    July 2008 est.
215    San Marino                                  29,973    July 2008 est.
216    Saint Martin                                29,376    July 2008 est.
217    Gibraltar                                   28,002    July 2008 est.
218    British Virgin Islands                      24,041    July 2008 est.
219    Turks and Caicos Islands                    22,352    July 2008 est.
220    Palau                                       21,093    July 2008 est.
221    Akrotiri                                    15,700
222    Dhekelia                                    15,700
223    Wallis and Futuna                           15,237    July 2008 est.
224    Anguilla                                    14,108    July 2008 est.
225    Nauru                                       13,770    July 2008 est.
226    Cook Islands                                12,271    July 2008 est.
227    Tuvalu                                      12,177    July 2008 est.
228    Saint Helena                                 7,601    July 2008 est.
229    Saint Barthelemy                             7,492    July 2008 est.
230    Saint Pierre and Miquelon                    7,044    July 2008 est.
231    Montserrat                                   5,079    July 2008 est.
232    Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)             3,140   July 2008 est.
233    Svalbard                                     2,165    July 2008 est.
234    Norfolk Island                               2,128    July 2008 est.
235    Niue                                         1,444    July 2008 est.
236    Tokelau                                      1,433    July 2008 est.
237    Christmas Island                             1,402    July 2007 est.
238    Holy See (Vatican City)                       824     July 2008 est.
239    Cocos (Keeling) Islands                       596     July 2007 est.
240    Pitcairn Islands                               48     July 2008 est.

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2121

Rank   Country                           Railways(km)        Date of Information

1      World                                     1,370,782   2006
2      European Union                             236,436    2007
3      United States                              226,612    2005
4      Russia                                      87,157    2006
5      China                                       75,438    2005
6      India                                       63,221    2006
7      Germany                                     48,215    2006
8      Canada                                      48,068    2006
9      Australia                                   38,550    2006
10     Argentina                                   31,902    2006
11     France                                      29,370    2006
12     Brazil                                      29,295    2006
13     Japan                                       23,474    2006
14     Poland                                      23,072    2006
15     Ukraine                                     22,473    2006
16     South Africa                                20,872    2006
17     Italy                                       19,460    2006
18     Mexico                                      17,665    2006
19     United Kingdom                              16,567    2006
20     Spain                                       14,974    2006
21     Kazakhstan                                  13,700    2006
22     Sweden                                      11,528    2006
23     Romania                                     11,385    2006
24     Czech Republic                               9,597    2006
25     Turkey                                       8,697    2006
26     Iran                                         8,367    2006
27     Pakistan                                     8,163    2006
28     Hungary                                      8,057    2006
29     Chile                                        6,585    2006
30     Indonesia                                    6,458    2006
31     Austria                                      6,383    2006
32     Sudan                                        5,978    2006
33     Finland                                      5,741    2006
34     Belarus                                      5,512    2006
35     Korea, North                                 5,235    2006
36     Congo, Democratic Republic of the             5,138   2006
37     Egypt                                        5,063    2006
38     Switzerland                                  4,839    2006
39     Bulgaria                                     4,294    2006
40     Cuba                                         4,226    2006
41     New Zealand                                  4,128    2006
42     Norway                                       4,114    2008
43     Thailand                                     4,071    2006
44     Algeria                                      3,973    2006
45     Burma                                        3,955    2006
46     Uzbekistan                                   3,950    2006
47     Tanzania                                     3,690    2006
48     Slovakia                                     3,662    2006
49     Belgium                                      3,536    2006
50     Nigeria                                      3,505    2006
51     Bolivia                                      3,504    2006
52     Korea, South                                 3,472    2006
53     Serbia                                       3,379    2006
54     Colombia                                     3,304    2006
55     Ireland                                      3,237    2006
56     Mozambique                                   3,123    2006
57     Zimbabwe                                     3,077    2006
58     Netherlands                                  2,797    2006
59     Portugal                                     2,786    2006
60     Kenya                                        2,778    2006
61     Bangladesh                                   2,768    2006
62     Angola                                       2,761    2006
63     Croatia                                      2,726    2006
64     Syria                                        2,711    2006
65     Denmark                                      2,644    2007
66     Vietnam                                      2,600    2006
67     Greece                                       2,571    2006
68     Turkmenistan                                 2,440    2006
69     Namibia                                      2,382    2006
70     Latvia                                       2,303    2006
71     Iraq                                         2,272    2006
72     Zambia                                       2,157    2006
73     Tunisia                                      2,153    2006
74     Azerbaijan                                   2,122    2006
75     Uruguay                                      2,073    2006
76     Peru                                         1,989    2006
77     Morocco                                      1,907    2006
78     Malaysia                                     1,890    2006
79     Mongolia                                     1,810    2006
80     Lithuania                                    1,771    2006
81     Georgia                                      1,612    2006
82     Taiwan                                       1,588    2007
83     Sri Lanka                                    1,449    2006
84     Saudi Arabia                                 1,392    2006
85     Uganda                                       1,244    2006
86     Slovenia                                     1,229    2006
87     Moldova                                      1,138    2006
88     Cameroon                                      987     2006
89     Estonia                                       968     2006
90     Ecuador                                       966     2006
91     Ghana                                         953     2006
92     Senegal                                       906     2006
93     Philippines                                   897     2006
94     Congo, Republic of the                        894     2006
95     Botswana                                      888     2006
96     Guatemala                                     886     2006
97     Madagascar                                    854     2006
98     Israel                                        853     2006
99     Armenia                                       839     2006
100    Guinea                                        837     2006
101    Gabon                                         814     2006
102    Malawi                                        797     2006
103    Benin                                         758     2006
104    Mali                                          729     2006
105    Ethiopia                                      699     2006
106    Macedonia                                     699     2006
107    Honduras                                      699     2006
108    Venezuela                                     682     2006
109    Cote d'Ivoire                                 660     2006
110    Burkina Faso                                  622     2006
111    Bosnia and Herzegovina                        608     2006
112    Cambodia                                      602     2006
113    Fiji                                          597     2006
114    Togo                                          568     2006
115    El Salvador                                   562     2007
116    Dominican Republic                            517     2006
117    Jordan                                        505     2006
118    Liberia                                       490     2008
119    Tajikistan                                    482     2006
120    Kyrgyzstan                                    470     2006
121    Albania                                       447     2006
122    Kosovo                                        430     2005
123    Lebanon                                       401     2006
124    Panama                                        355     2006
125    Eritrea                                       306     2006
126    Swaziland                                     301     2006
127    Costa Rica                                    278     2007
128    Luxembourg                                    275     2006
129    Montenegro                                    250     2006
130    Djibouti                                      100     2006
131    Puerto Rico                                    96     2006
132    Isle of Man                                    65     2006
133    Nepal                                          59     2006
134    Saint Kitts and Nevis                          50     2006
135    Paraguay                                       36     2006
136    Nicaragua                                       6     2006

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2127

Rank   Country                           Total fertility rate(children born/woman)  Date of Information

1      Mali                                   7.34           2008 est.
2      Niger                                  7.29           2008 est.
3      Uganda                                 6.81           2008 est.
4      Somalia                                6.60           2008 est.
5      Afghanistan                            6.58           2008 est.
6      Yemen                                  6.41           2008 est.
7      Burundi                                6.40           2008 est.
8      Burkina Faso                           6.34           2008 est.
9      Congo, Democratic Republic of the       6.28          2008 est.
10     Angola                                 6.20           2008 est.
11     Ethiopia                               6.17           2008 est.
12     Sierra Leone                           5.95           2008 est.
13     Congo, Republic of the                 5.92           2008 est.
14     Liberia                                5.87           2008 est.
15     Mauritania                             5.69           2008 est.
16     Western Sahara                         5.69           2008 est.
17     Malawi                                 5.67           2008 est.
18     Oman                                   5.62           2008 est.
19     Mayotte                                5.60           2008 est.
20     Benin                                  5.58           2008 est.
21     Chad                                   5.43           2008 est.
22     Sao Tome and Principe                  5.43           2008 est.
23     Rwanda                                 5.31           2008 est.
24     Guinea                                 5.25           2008 est.
25     Mozambique                             5.24           2008 est.
26     Zambia                                 5.23           2008 est.
27     Gaza Strip                             5.19           2008 est.
28     Madagascar                             5.19           2008 est.
29     Equatorial Guinea                      5.16           2008 est.
30     Djibouti                               5.14           2008 est.
31     Gambia, The                            5.13           2008 est.
32     Nigeria                                5.01           2008 est.
33     Comoros                                4.90           2008 est.
34     Senegal                                4.86           2008 est.
35     Togo                                   4.85           2008 est.
36     Eritrea                                4.84           2008 est.
37     Haiti                                  4.79           2008 est.
38     Guinea-Bissau                          4.72           2008 est.
39     Kenya                                  4.70           2008 est.
40     Gabon                                  4.68           2008 est.
41     Tanzania                               4.62           2008 est.
42     Sudan                                  4.58           2008 est.
43     Laos                                   4.50           2008 est.
44     Cameroon                               4.41           2008 est.
45     Central African Republic               4.23           2008 est.
46     Cote d'Ivoire                          4.23           2008 est.
47     Samoa                                  4.18           2008 est.
48     Kiribati                               4.08           2008 est.
49     Iraq                                   3.97           2008 est.
50     Nepal                                  3.91           2008 est.
51     Saudi Arabia                           3.89           2008 est.
52     Paraguay                               3.80           2008 est.
53     Ghana                                  3.78           2008 est.
54     Pakistan                               3.73           2008 est.
55     Zimbabwe                               3.72           2008 est.
56     Papua New Guinea                       3.71           2008 est.
57     Marshall Islands                       3.68           2008 est.
58     Solomon Islands                        3.65           2008 est.
59     Guatemala                              3.59           2008 est.
60     Belize                                 3.44           2008 est.
61     Honduras                               3.38           2008 est.
62     Timor-Leste                            3.36           2008 est.
63     American Samoa                         3.35           2008 est.
64     Swaziland                              3.34           2008 est.
65     Philippines                            3.32           2008 est.
66     West Bank                              3.31           2008 est.
67     Syria                                  3.21           2008 est.
68     Cape Verde                             3.17           2008 est.
69     Libya                                  3.15           2008 est.
70     Lesotho                                3.13           2008 est.
71     Bangladesh                             3.08           2008 est.
72     Cambodia                               3.08           2008 est.
73     Turkmenistan                           3.07           2008 est.
74     El Salvador                            3.04           2008 est.
75     Tajikistan                             3.04           2008 est.
76     Micronesia, Federated States of        2.98           2008 est.
77     Malaysia                               2.98           2008 est.
78     Turks and Caicos Islands               2.98           2008 est.
79     Nauru                                  2.94           2008 est.
80     Tuvalu                                 2.94           2008 est.
81     Kuwait                                 2.81           2008 est.
82     Namibia                                2.81           2008 est.
83     Dominican Republic                     2.78           2008 est.
84     Israel                                 2.77           2008 est.
85     India                                  2.76           2008 est.
86     Egypt                                  2.72           2008 est.
87     Fiji                                   2.68           2008 est.
88     Bolivia                                2.67           2008 est.
89     Kyrgyzstan                             2.67           2008 est.
90     Botswana                               2.66           2008 est.
91     Nicaragua                              2.63           2008 est.
92     World                                  2.61           2008 est.
93     Ecuador                                2.59           2008 est.
94     Morocco                                2.57           2008 est.
95     Vanuatu                                2.57           2008 est.
96     Panama                                 2.57           2008 est.
97     Guam                                   2.55           2008 est.
98     Bahrain                                2.53           2008 est.
99     Venezuela                              2.52           2008 est.
100    Tonga                                  2.50           2008 est.
101    Colombia                               2.49           2008 est.
102    Bhutan                                 2.48           2008 est.
103    Jordan                                 2.47           2008 est.
104    Qatar                                  2.47           2008 est.
105    Faroe Islands                          2.45           2008 est.
106    Palau                                  2.45           2008 est.
107    United Arab Emirates                   2.43           2008 est.
108    South Africa                           2.43           2008 est.
109    Peru                                   2.42           2008 est.
110    Argentina                              2.37           2008 est.
111    Mexico                                 2.37           2008 est.
112    Indonesia                              2.34           2008 est.
113    Jamaica                                2.30           2008 est.
114    Saint Kitts and Nevis                  2.28           2008 est.
115    Grenada                                2.27           2008 est.
116    Mongolia                               2.24           2008 est.
117    Brazil                                 2.22           2008 est.
118    Greenland                              2.22           2008 est.
119    New Caledonia                          2.21           2008 est.
120    Costa Rica                             2.17           2008 est.
121    Bahamas, The                           2.13           2008 est.
122    New Zealand                            2.11           2008 est.
123    Dominica                               2.10           2008 est.
124    United States                          2.10           2008 est.
125    Antigua and Barbuda                    2.08           2008 est.
126    Azerbaijan                             2.05           2008 est.
127    Guyana                                 2.03           2008 est.
128    Albania                                2.02           2008 est.
129    Sri Lanka                              2.02           2008 est.
130    Suriname                               2.01           2008 est.
131    Uzbekistan                             2.01           2008 est.
132    Korea, North                           2.00           2008 est.
133    France                                 1.98           2008 est.
134    Saint Pierre and Miquelon              1.98           2008 est.
135    Netherlands Antilles                   1.98           2008 est.
136    Maldives                               1.97           2008 est.
137    Chile                                  1.95           2008 est.
138    French Polynesia                       1.95           2008 est.
139    Brunei                                 1.94           2008 est.
140    Uruguay                                1.94           2008 est.
141    Burma                                  1.92           2008 est.
142    Iceland                                1.91           2008 est.
143    Cayman Islands                         1.89           2008 est.
144    Bermuda                                1.88           2008 est.
145    Kazakhstan                             1.88           2008 est.
146    Virgin Islands                         1.88           2008 est.
147    Lebanon                                1.87           2008 est.
148    Turkey                                 1.87           2008 est.
149    Saint Lucia                            1.86           2008 est.
150    Vietnam                                1.86           2008 est.
151    Aruba                                  1.85           2008 est.
152    Ireland                                1.85           2008 est.
153    Mauritius                              1.83           2008 est.
154    Algeria                                1.82           2008 est.
155    Cyprus                                 1.79           2008 est.
156    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines       1.79           2008 est.
157    Australia                              1.78           2008 est.
158    Luxembourg                             1.78           2008 est.
159    Norway                                 1.78           2008 est.
160    China                                  1.77           2008 est.
161    Puerto Rico                            1.76           2008 est.
162    Anguilla                               1.75           2008 est.
163    Monaco                                 1.75           2008 est.
164    Denmark                                1.74           2008 est.
165    Finland                                1.73           2008 est.
166    Seychelles                             1.73           2008 est.
167    Tunisia                                1.73           2008 est.
168    Trinidad and Tobago                    1.73           2008 est.
169    Iran                                   1.71           2008 est.
170    British Virgin Islands                 1.71           2008 est.
171    Serbia                                 1.69           2008 est.
172    Sweden                                 1.67           2008 est.
173    Netherlands                            1.66           2008 est.
174    United Kingdom                         1.66           2008 est.
175    Barbados                               1.65           2008 est.
176    Isle of Man                            1.65           2008 est.
177    Gibraltar                              1.65           2008 est.
178    Belgium                                1.65           2008 est.
179    Thailand                               1.64           2008 est.
180    Cuba                                   1.60           2008 est.
181    Jersey                                 1.58           2008 est.
182    Macedonia                              1.58           2008 est.
183    Canada                                 1.57           2008 est.
184    Saint Helena                           1.56           2008 est.
185    Liechtenstein                          1.51           2008 est.
186    Malta                                  1.51           2008 est.
187    European Union                         1.50           2008 est.
188    Portugal                               1.49           2008 est.
189    Switzerland                            1.44           2008 est.
190    Georgia                                1.43           2008 est.
191    Estonia                                1.42           2008 est.
192    Germany                                1.41           2008 est.
193    Croatia                                1.41           2008 est.
194    Bulgaria                               1.40           2008 est.
195    Russia                                 1.40           2008 est.
196    Guernsey                               1.40           2008 est.
197    Austria                                1.38           2008 est.
198    Romania                                1.38           2008 est.
199    Greece                                 1.36           2008 est.
200    Armenia                                1.35           2008 est.
201    San Marino                             1.35           2008 est.
202    Hungary                                1.34           2008 est.
203    Slovakia                               1.34           2008 est.
204    Andorra                                1.32           2008 est.
205    Italy                                  1.30           2008 est.
206    Spain                                  1.30           2008 est.
207    Latvia                                 1.29           2008 est.
208    Poland                                 1.27           2008 est.
209    Slovenia                               1.27           2008 est.
210    Moldova                                1.26           2008 est.
211    Ukraine                                1.25           2008 est.
212    Bosnia and Herzegovina                 1.24           2008 est.
213    Belarus                                1.23           2008 est.
214    Czech Republic                         1.23           2008 est.
215    Japan                                  1.22           2008 est.
216    Montserrat                             1.22           2008 est.
217    Lithuania                              1.22           2008 est.
218    Korea, South                           1.20           2008 est.
219    Northern Mariana Islands               1.18           2008 est.
220    Taiwan                                 1.13           2008 est.
221    Singapore                              1.08           2008 est.
222    Hong Kong                              1.00           2008 est.
223    Macau                                  0.90           2008 est.

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2129

Rank   Country                           Unemployment rate(%)  Date of Information

1      Andorra                                0.00           1996 est.
2      Monaco                                 0.00           2005
3      Qatar                                  0.70           2007 est.
4      Uzbekistan                             0.80           2007 est.
5      Guernsey                               0.90           March 2006 est.
6      Azerbaijan                             1.00           2007 est.
7      Iceland                                1.00           2007 est.
8      Liechtenstein                          1.30           September 2002
9      Thailand                               1.40           2007 est.
10     Isle of Man                            1.50           December 2006 est.
11     Belarus                                1.60           2005
12     Vanuatu                                1.70           1999
13     Cuba                                   1.80           2007 est.
14     Papua New Guinea                       1.90           2004
15     Kiribati                               2.00           1992 est.
16     Seychelles                             2.00           2006 est.
17     Bermuda                                2.10           2004 est.
18     Singapore                              2.10           2007 est.
19     Moldova                                2.10           2007 est.
20     Faroe Islands                          2.10           2006
21     Jersey                                 2.20           2006 est.
22     Kuwait                                 2.20           2004 est.
23     Ukraine                                2.30           2007 est.
24     United Arab Emirates                   2.40           2001
25     Laos                                   2.40           2005 est.
26     Tajikistan                             2.40           2007 est.
27     Bangladesh                             2.50           2007 est.
28     Cambodia                               2.50           2000 est.
29     Bhutan                                 2.50           2004
30     Norway                                 2.50           2007 est.
31     Denmark                                2.80           2007 est.
32     Switzerland                            2.80           2007 est.
33     Gibraltar                              3.00           2005 est.
34     Mongolia                               3.00           2007
35     Macau                                  3.10           2006
36     Guatemala                              3.20           2005 est.
37     Malaysia                               3.20           2007 est.
38     Korea, South                           3.30           2007 est.
39     Lithuania                              3.50           2007 est.
40     New Zealand                            3.60           2007 est.
41     British Virgin Islands                 3.60           1997
42     Mexico                                 3.70           2007 est.
43     Japan                                  3.80           2007 est.
44     San Marino                             3.80           2004
45     Northern Mariana Islands               3.90           2001
46     Cyprus                                 3.90           2007 est.
47     Taiwan                                 3.90           2007 est.
48     Brunei                                 4.00           2006
49     China                                  4.00           2007 est.
50     Hong Kong                              4.00           2007 est.
51     Romania                                4.10           2007 est.
52     Palau                                  4.20           2005 est.
53     Vietnam                                4.30           2007 est.
54     Australia                              4.40           2007 est.
55     Austria                                4.40           2007 est.
56     Cayman Islands                         4.40           2004
57     Luxembourg                             4.40           2007 est.
58     Saint Kitts and Nevis                  4.50           1997
59     Trinidad and Tobago                    4.50           2007 est.
60     Costa Rica                             4.60           2007 est.
61     Ireland                                4.60           2007 est.
62     Netherlands                            4.60           2007 est.
63     United States                          4.60           2007 est.
64     Estonia                                4.70           2007 est.
65     Nigeria                                4.90           2007 est.
66     Nicaragua                              4.90           2007 est.
67     Burma                                  5.20           2007 est.
68     Namibia                                5.20           2007 est.
69     United Kingdom                         5.30           2007 est.
70     Paraguay                               5.60           2007 est.
71     Pakistan                               5.60           2007 est.
72     Latvia                                 5.70           2007 est.
73     Canada                                 6.00           2007 est.
74     Montserrat                             6.00           1998 est.
75     Sri Lanka                              6.00           2007 est.
76     Sweden                                 6.10           2007 est.
77     El Salvador                            6.20           2007 est.
78     Italy                                  6.20           2007 est.
79     Virgin Islands                         6.20           2004
80     Russia                                 6.20           2007 est.
81     Malta                                  6.40           2007 est.
82     Panama                                 6.40           2007 est.
83     Czech Republic                         6.60           2007 est.
84     Aruba                                  6.90           2005 est.
85     Peru                                   6.90           2007 est.
86     Finland                                6.90           2007 est.
87     Chile                                  7.00           2007 est.
88     Armenia                                7.10           2007 est.
89     India                                  7.20           2007 est.
90     Hungary                                7.30           2007 est.
91     Israel                                 7.30           2007 est.
92     Kazakhstan                             7.30           2007 est.
93     Philippines                            7.30           2007 est.
94     Botswana                               7.50           2007 est.
95     Belgium                                7.50           2007 est.
96     Bolivia                                7.50           2007 est.
97     Bahamas, The                           7.60           2006 est.
98     Fiji                                   7.60           1999
99     Bulgaria                               7.70           2007 est.
100    Slovenia                               7.70           2007 est.
101    France                                 7.90           2007 est.
102    Anguilla                               8.00           2002
103    Portugal                               8.00           2007 est.
104    Central African Republic               8.00           2001 est.
105    Greece                                 8.30           2007 est.
106    Spain                                  8.30           2007 est.
107    Slovakia                               8.40           2007 est.
108    Argentina                              8.50           2007 est.
109    Venezuela                              8.50           2007 est.
110    European Union                         8.50           2006 est.
111    Ecuador                                8.80           2007 est.
112    Mauritius                              8.80           2007 est.
113    Germany                                9.00           2007 est.
114    Syria                                  9.00           2007 est.
115    Egypt                                  9.10           2007 est.
116    Indonesia                              9.10           2007 est.
117    Uruguay                                9.20           2007 est.
118    Brazil                                 9.30           2007 est.
119    Greenland                              9.30           2005 est.
120    Belize                                 9.40           2006
121    Suriname                               9.50           2004
122    Morocco                                9.80           2007 est.
123    Jamaica                                9.90           2007 est.
124    Turkey                                 9.90           2007 est.
125    Turks and Caicos Islands              10.00           1997 est.
126    Saint Pierre and Miquelon             10.30           1999
127    Barbados                              10.70           2003 est.
128    Antigua and Barbuda                   11.00           2001 est.
129    Ghana                                 11.00           2000 est.
130    Colombia                              11.20           2007 est.
131    Guam                                  11.40           2002 est.
132    French Polynesia                      11.70           2005
133    Algeria                               11.80           2007 est.
134    Croatia                               11.80           2007 est.
135    Iran                                  12.00           2007 est.
136    Niue                                  12.00           2001
137    Puerto Rico                           12.00           2002
138    Grenada                               12.50           2000
139    Poland                                12.80           2007 est.
140    Saudi Arabia                          13.00           2004 est.
141    Tonga                                 13.00           FY03/04 est.
142    Cook Islands                          13.10           2005
143    Albania                               13.20           2007 est.
144    Jordan                                13.50           2007 est.
145    Georgia                               13.60           2006 est.
146    Saint Helena                          14.00           1998 est.
147    Tunisia                               14.10           2007 est.
148    Montenegro                            14.70           2007 est.
149    Bahrain                               15.00           2005 est.
150    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines      15.00           2001 est.
151    Oman                                  15.00           2004 est.
152    Wallis and Futuna                     15.20           2003
153    Dominican Republic                    15.60           2007 est.
154    Netherlands Antilles                  17.00           2002 est.
155    New Caledonia                         17.10           2004
156    Iraq                                  18.00           2006 est.
157    Kyrgyzstan                            18.00           2004 est.
158    West Bank                             18.60           2006
159    Sudan                                 18.70           2002 est.
160    Serbia                                18.80           2007 est.
161    Comoros                               20.00           1996 est.
162    Lebanon                               20.00           2006 est.
163    Mauritania                            20.00           2004 est.
164    Saint Lucia                           20.00           2003 est.
165    Cape Verde                            21.00           2000 est.
166    Gabon                                 21.00           2006 est.
167    Mozambique                            21.00           1997 est.
168    Micronesia, Federated States of       22.00           2000 est.
169    Dominica                              23.00           2000 est.
170    South Africa                          24.30           2007 est.
171    Mayotte                               25.40           2005
172    Honduras                              27.80           2007 est.
173    American Samoa                        29.80           2005
174    Cameroon                              30.00           2001 est.
175    Libya                                 30.00           2004 est.
176    Equatorial Guinea                     30.00           1998 est.
177    Mali                                  30.00           2004 est.
178    World                                 30.00           2007 est.
179    Marshall Islands                      30.90           2000 est.
180    Gaza Strip                            34.80           2006
181    Macedonia                             34.90           2007 est.
182    Yemen                                 35.00           2003 est.
183    Afghanistan                           40.00           2005 est.
184    Kenya                                 40.00           2001 est.
185    Swaziland                             40.00           2006 est.
186    Nepal                                 42.00           2004 est.
187    Kosovo                                43.00           2007 est.
188    Lesotho                               45.00           2002
189    Bosnia and Herzegovina                45.50           31 December 2004 est.
190    Senegal                               48.00           2007 est.
191    Timor-Leste                           50.00           2001 est.
192    Zambia                                50.00           2000 est.
193    Djibouti                              59.00           2007 est.
194    Cocos (Keeling) Islands               60.00           2000 est.
195    Turkmenistan                          60.00           2004 est.
196    Burkina Faso                          77.00           2004
197    Zimbabwe                              80.00           2005 est.
198    Liberia                               85.00           2003 est.
199    Nauru                                 90.00           2004 est.

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2147

Rank   Country                           Area(sq km)         Date of Information

1      World                                   510,072,000
2      Pacific Ocean                           155,557,000
3      Atlantic Ocean                           76,762,000
4      Indian Ocean                             68,556,000
5      Southern Ocean                           20,327,000
6      Russia                                   17,075,200
7      Arctic Ocean                             14,056,000
8      Antarctica                               14,000,000
9      Canada                                    9,984,670
10     United States                             9,826,630
11     China                                     9,596,960
12     Brazil                                    8,511,965
13     Australia                                 7,686,850
14     European Union                            4,324,782
15     India                                     3,287,590
16     Argentina                                 2,766,890
17     Kazakhstan                                2,717,300
18     Sudan                                     2,505,810
19     Algeria                                   2,381,740
20     Congo, Democratic Republic of the          2,345,410
21     Greenland                                 2,166,086
22     Saudi Arabia                              2,149,690
23     Mexico                                    1,972,550
24     Indonesia                                 1,919,440
25     Libya                                     1,759,540
26     Iran                                      1,648,000
27     Mongolia                                  1,564,116
28     Peru                                      1,285,220
29     Chad                                      1,284,000
30     Niger                                     1,267,000
31     Angola                                    1,246,700
32     Mali                                      1,240,000
33     South Africa                              1,219,912
34     Colombia                                  1,138,910
35     Ethiopia                                  1,127,127
36     Bolivia                                   1,098,580
37     Mauritania                                1,030,700
38     Egypt                                     1,001,450
39     Tanzania                                   945,087
40     Nigeria                                    923,768
41     Venezuela                                  912,050
42     Namibia                                    825,418
43     Pakistan                                   803,940
44     Mozambique                                 801,590
45     Turkey                                     780,580
46     Chile                                      756,950
47     Zambia                                     752,614
48     Burma                                      678,500
49     Afghanistan                                647,500
50     France                                     643,427
51     Somalia                                    637,657
52     Central African Republic                   622,984
53     Ukraine                                    603,700
54     Botswana                                   600,370
55     Madagascar                                 587,040
56     Kenya                                      582,650
57     Yemen                                      527,970
58     Thailand                                   514,000
59     Spain                                      504,782
60     Turkmenistan                               488,100
61     Cameroon                                   475,440
62     Papua New Guinea                           462,840
63     Sweden                                     449,964
64     Uzbekistan                                 447,400
65     Morocco                                    446,550
66     Iraq                                       437,072
67     Paraguay                                   406,750
68     Zimbabwe                                   390,580
69     Japan                                      377,835
70     Germany                                    357,021
71     Congo, Republic of the                     342,000
72     Finland                                    338,145
73     Malaysia                                   329,750
74     Vietnam                                    329,560
75     Norway                                     323,802
76     Cote d'Ivoire                              322,460
77     Poland                                     312,679
78     Italy                                      301,230
79     Philippines                                300,000
80     Ecuador                                    283,560
81     Burkina Faso                               274,200
82     New Zealand                                268,680
83     Gabon                                      267,667
84     Western Sahara                             266,000
85     Guinea                                     245,857
86     United Kingdom                             244,820
87     Ghana                                      239,460
88     Romania                                    237,500
89     Laos                                       236,800
90     Uganda                                     236,040
91     Guyana                                     214,970
92     Oman                                       212,460
93     Belarus                                    207,600
94     Kyrgyzstan                                 198,500
95     Senegal                                    196,190
96     Syria                                      185,180
97     Cambodia                                   181,040
98     Uruguay                                    176,220
99     Tunisia                                    163,610
100    Suriname                                   163,270
101    Nepal                                      147,181
102    Bangladesh                                 144,000
103    Tajikistan                                 143,100
104    Greece                                     131,940
105    Nicaragua                                  129,494
106    Eritrea                                    121,320
107    Korea, North                               120,540
108    Malawi                                     118,480
109    Benin                                      112,620
110    Honduras                                   112,090
111    Liberia                                    111,370
112    Bulgaria                                   110,910
113    Cuba                                       110,860
114    Guatemala                                  108,890
115    Iceland                                    103,000
116    Korea, South                                98,480
117    Hungary                                     93,030
118    Portugal                                    92,391
119    Jordan                                      92,300
120    Azerbaijan                                  86,600
121    Austria                                     83,870
122    United Arab Emirates                        83,600
123    Czech Republic                              78,866
124    Panama                                      78,200
125    Serbia                                      77,474
126    Sierra Leone                                71,740
127    Ireland                                     70,280
128    Georgia                                     69,700
129    Sri Lanka                                   65,610
130    Lithuania                                   65,300
131    Latvia                                      64,589
132    Svalbard                                    61,020
133    Togo                                        56,785
134    Croatia                                     56,542
135    British Indian Ocean Territory              54,400
136    Bosnia and Herzegovina                      51,209
137    Costa Rica                                  51,100
138    Slovakia                                    48,845
139    Dominican Republic                          48,730
140    Bhutan                                      47,000
141    Estonia                                     45,226
142    Denmark                                     43,094
143    Netherlands                                 41,526
144    Switzerland                                 41,290
145    Guinea-Bissau                               36,120
146    Taiwan                                      35,980
147    Moldova                                     33,843
148    Belgium                                     30,528
149    Lesotho                                     30,355
150    Armenia                                     29,743
151    Albania                                     28,748
152    Solomon Islands                             28,450
153    Equatorial Guinea                           28,051
154    Burundi                                     27,830
155    Haiti                                       27,750
156    Rwanda                                      26,338
157    Macedonia                                   25,333
158    Djibouti                                    23,000
159    Belize                                      22,966
160    El Salvador                                 21,040
161    Israel                                      20,770
162    Slovenia                                    20,273
163    New Caledonia                               19,060
164    Fiji                                        18,270
165    Kuwait                                      17,820
166    Swaziland                                   17,363
167    Timor-Leste                                 15,007
168    Montenegro                                  14,026
169    Bahamas, The                                13,940
170    Puerto Rico                                 13,790
171    Vanuatu                                     12,200
172    Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)            12,173
173    Qatar                                       11,437
174    Gambia, The                                 11,300
175    Jamaica                                     10,991
176    Kosovo                                      10,887
177    Lebanon                                     10,400
178    Cyprus                                       9,250
179    West Bank                                    5,860
180    Brunei                                       5,770
181    Trinidad and Tobago                          5,128
182    French Polynesia                             4,167
183    Cape Verde                                   4,033
184    South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands             3,903
185    Samoa                                        2,944
186    Luxembourg                                   2,586
187    Comoros                                      2,170
188    Mauritius                                    2,040
189    Virgin Islands                               1,910
190    Faroe Islands                                1,399
191    Hong Kong                                    1,092
192    Sao Tome and Principe                        1,001
193    Netherlands Antilles                          960
194    Kiribati                                      811
195    Dominica                                      754
196    Tonga                                         748
197    Micronesia, Federated States of               702
198    Singapore                                     693
199    Bahrain                                       665
200    Saint Lucia                                   616
201    Isle of Man                                   572
202    Guam                                          541
203    Northern Mariana Islands                      477
204    Andorra                                       468
205    Palau                                         458
206    Seychelles                                    455
207    Antigua and Barbuda                           443
208    Barbados                                      431
209    Turks and Caicos Islands                      430
210    Saint Helena                                  413
211    Heard Island and McDonald Islands              412
212    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines              389
213    Jan Mayen                                     377
214    Mayotte                                       374
215    Gaza Strip                                    360
216    Grenada                                       344
217    Malta                                         316
218    Maldives                                      300
219    Wallis and Futuna                             274
220    Cayman Islands                                262
221    Saint Kitts and Nevis                         261
222    Niue                                          260
223    Saint Pierre and Miquelon                     242
224    Cook Islands                                  237
225    American Samoa                                199
226    Aruba                                         193
227    Marshall Islands                              181
228    Liechtenstein                                 160
229    British Virgin Islands                        153
230    Christmas Island                              135
231    Dhekelia                                      131
232    Akrotiri                                      123
233    Jersey                                        116
234    Anguilla                                      102
235    Montserrat                                    102
236    Guernsey                                       78
237    San Marino                                     61
238    French Southern and Antarctic Lands               55
239    Saint Martin                                   54
240    Bermuda                                        53
241    Bouvet Island                                  49
242    Pitcairn Islands                               47
243    Norfolk Island                                 35
244    Macau                                          28
245    Tuvalu                                         26
246    United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges               22
247    Nauru                                          21
248    Cocos (Keeling) Islands                        14
249    Tokelau                                        10
250    Gibraltar                                       7
251    Wake Island                                     7
252    Clipperton Island                               6
253    Navassa Island                                  5
254    Ashmore and Cartier Islands                     5
255    Spratly Islands                                 5
256    Coral Sea Islands                               3
257    Monaco                                          2
258    Holy See (Vatican City)                         0

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2150

Rank   Country                           Telephones - main lines in use  Date of Information

1      World                                  1,263,367,600  2005
2      China                                   365,400,000   2007
3      European Union                          238,000,000   2005
4      United States                           163,200,000   2007
5      Germany                                  53,750,000   2007
6      Japan                                    51,232,000   2007
7      Russia                                   43,900,000   2006
8      Brazil                                   39,400,000   2007
9      India                                    38,760,000   2008
10     France                                   35,533,000   2007
11     United Kingdom                           33,682,000   2007
12     Italy                                    26,890,000   2006
13     Korea, South                             23,905,000   2007
14     Iran                                     23,835,000   2007
15     Canada                                   21,000,000   2006
16     Mexico                                   19,754,000   2007
17     Spain                                    18,583,000   2007
18     Turkey                                   18,413,000   2007
19     Indonesia                                17,828,000   2007
20     Taiwan                                   14,313,000   2007
21     Ukraine                                  12,858,000   2007
22     Egypt                                    11,229,000   2007
23     Vietnam                                  10,800,000   2007
24     Poland                                   10,336,000   2007
25     Australia                                 9,760,000   2007
26     Argentina                                 9,500,000   2007
27     Colombia                                  7,936,000   2007
28     Netherlands                               7,334,000   2007
29     Thailand                                  7,024,000   2007
30     Greece                                    6,227,000   2007
31     Sweden                                    5,506,000   2007
32     Venezuela                                 5,082,000   2007
33     Switzerland                               5,000,000   2007
34     Belgium                                   4,668,000   2007
35     South Africa                              4,642,000   2007
36     Pakistan                                  4,546,000   2008
37     Malaysia                                  4,350,000   2007
38     Romania                                   4,300,000   2007
39     Portugal                                  4,139,000   2007
40     Saudi Arabia                              3,996,000   2007
41     Hong Kong                                 3,875,000   2007
42     Belarus                                   3,672,000   2007
43     Philippines                               3,633,000   2006
44     Syria                                     3,452,000   2007
45     Chile                                     3,379,000   2007
46     Austria                                   3,374,000   2007
47     Hungary                                   3,251,000   2007
48     Kazakhstan                                3,237,000   2007
49     Algeria                                   3,068,000   2007
50     Israel                                    3,005,000   2006
51     Serbia                                    2,993,000   2007
52     Czech Republic                            2,888,000   2006
53     Denmark                                   2,824,000   2007
54     Sri Lanka                                 2,742,000   2007
55     Peru                                      2,673,000   2007
56     Morocco                                   2,394,000   2007
57     Bulgaria                                  2,300,000   2007
58     Ireland                                   2,112,000   2007
59     Norway                                    1,988,000   2007
60     Singapore                                 1,859,000   2007
61     Croatia                                   1,825,000   2007
62     Ecuador                                   1,805,000   2007
63     Uzbekistan                                1,793,000   2005
64     Finland                                   1,740,000   2007
65     New Zealand                               1,706,000   2007
66     Nigeria                                   1,580,000   2007
67     Iraq                                      1,547,000   2005
68     Costa Rica                                1,437,000   2007
69     United Arab Emirates                      1,385,000   2007
70     Guatemala                                 1,355,000   2006
71     Tunisia                                   1,273,000   2007
72     Azerbaijan                                1,254,000   2007
73     Bangladesh                                1,187,000   2007
74     Korea, North                              1,180,000   2007
75     Slovakia                                  1,151,000   2007
76     El Salvador                               1,080,000   2007
77     Moldova                                   1,080,000   2007
78     Bosnia and Herzegovina                    1,065,000   2007
79     Cuba                                      1,043,000   2007
80     Puerto Rico                               1,038,000   2005
81     Yemen                                      968,300    2006
82     Uruguay                                    965,200    2007
83     Dominican Republic                         907,000    2007
84     Ethiopia                                   880,100    2007
85     Slovenia                                   857,100    2007
86     Libya                                      852,300    2005
87     Lithuania                                  799,400    2007
88     Nepal                                      766,400    2007
89     Cote d'Ivoire                              730,000    2007
90     Honduras                                   713,600    2006
91     Lebanon                                    681,400    2006
92     Bolivia                                    678,200    2007
93     Latvia                                     644,000    2007
94     Armenia                                    603,900    2006
95     Jordan                                     585,500    2007
96     Georgia                                    544,000    2007
97     Kuwait                                     517,000    2006
98     Burma                                      503,900    2005
99     Estonia                                    495,500    2007
100    Panama                                     491,900    2007
101    Kyrgyzstan                                 482,100    2007
102    Macedonia                                  463,600    2007
103    Paraguay                                   453,800    2007
104    Turkmenistan                               398,100    2005
105    Ghana                                      376,500    2007
106    Cyprus                                     376,000
107    Mauritius                                  357,300    2006
108    Albania                                    353,600    2005
109    Montenegro                                 353,300    2006
110    Gaza Strip                                 350,400    2007
111    West Bank                                  350,400    2007
112    Sudan                                      345,200    2007
113    Zimbabwe                                   344,500    2007
114    Jamaica                                    342,000    2006
115    Trinidad and Tobago                        323,800    2007
116    Tajikistan                                 280,200    2005
117    Afghanistan                                280,000    2005
118    Senegal                                    269,100    2007
119    Oman                                       268,100    2007
120    Kenya                                      264,800    2007
121    Luxembourg                                 248,200    2007
122    Nicaragua                                  247,900    2006
123    Qatar                                      237,400    2007
124    Malta                                      198,100    2007
125    Bahrain                                    194,200    2006
126    Iceland                                    186,700    2007
127    Macau                                      177,851    2008
128    Malawi                                     175,200    2007
129    Tanzania                                   165,013    2008
130    Uganda                                     162,300    2007
131    Mongolia                                   158,900    2006
132    Haiti                                      150,000    2006
133    Namibia                                    138,100    2007
134    Botswana                                   136,900    2006
135    Barbados                                   134,900    2005
136    Madagascar                                 133,900    2007
137    Bahamas, The                               132,900    2007
138    Cameroon                                   130,700    2006
139    Benin                                      110,300    2007
140    Guyana                                     110,100    2005
141    Fiji                                       108,400    2007
142    Kosovo                                     106,300    2006
143    Somalia                                    100,000    2007
144    Angola                                      98,200    2006
145    Laos                                        94,800    2007
146    Burkina Faso                                94,800    2006
147    Zambia                                      91,800    2007
148    Mali                                        85,000    2007
149    Togo                                        82,100    2006
150    Suriname                                    81,500    2006
151    Netherlands Antilles                        81,000    2001
152    Brunei                                      79,200    2007
153    Gambia, The                                 76,400    2007
154    Jersey                                      73,900    2001
155    Virgin Islands                              71,700    2005
156    Cape Verde                                  71,600    2006
157    Mozambique                                  67,000    2006
158    Guam                                        65,500    2003
159    New Caledonia                               60,200    2007
160    Papua New Guinea                            60,000    2007
161    Bermuda                                     57,700    2006
162    French Polynesia                            53,600    2006
163    Lesotho                                     53,100    2006
164    Saint Lucia                                 51,100    2002
165    Isle of Man                                 51,000    1999
166    Guernsey                                    45,100    2005
167    Swaziland                                   44,000    2006
168    Aruba                                       38,700    2006
169    Cayman Islands                              38,000    2002
170    Antigua and Barbuda                         37,500    2006
171    Eritrea                                     37,500    2006
172    Cambodia                                    37,500    2007
173    Andorra                                     37,200    2007
174    Greenland                                   36,000    2006
175    Burundi                                     35,000    2006
176    Mauritania                                  34,900    2006
177    Monaco                                      34,000    2005
178    Belize                                      33,900    2007
179    Maldives                                    33,200    2007
180    Bhutan                                      29,900    2007
181    Grenada                                     27,700    2006
182    Gabon                                       26,500    2007
183    Guinea                                      26,300    2005
184    Saint Kitts and Nevis                       25,000    2004
185    Gibraltar                                   24,512    2002
186    Niger                                       24,000    2005
187    Sierra Leone                                24,000    2002
188    Rwanda                                      23,100    2007
189    Faroe Islands                               23,000    2006
190    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines            22,800    2007
191    Seychelles                                  22,700    2007
192    Northern Mariana Islands                    21,000    2000
193    San Marino                                  21,000    2006
194    Tonga                                       21,000    2007
195    Dominica                                    21,000    2004
196    Liechtenstein                               20,000    2005
197    Samoa                                       19,500    2005
198    Comoros                                     19,100    2006
199    Congo, Republic of the                      15,900    2005
200    Chad                                        13,000    2006
201    Central African Republic                    12,000    2006
202    British Virgin Islands                      11,700    2002
203    Djibouti                                    10,800    2005
204    American Samoa                              10,400    2004
205    Equatorial Guinea                           10,000    2005
206    Mayotte                                     10,000    2002
207    Congo, Democratic Republic of the             9,700   2006
208    Vanuatu                                      8,800    2007
209    Micronesia, Federated States of              8,700    2007
210    Sao Tome and Principe                        7,700    2007
211    Solomon Islands                              7,600    2006
212    Liberia                                      6,900    2002
213    Palau                                        6,700    2002
214    Anguilla                                     6,200    2002
215    Cook Islands                                 6,200    2002
216    Turks and Caicos Islands                     5,700    2002
217    Holy See (Vatican City)                      5,120    2005
218    Saint Pierre and Miquelon                    4,800    2002
219    Guinea-Bissau                                4,600    2007
220    Kiribati                                     4,500    2002
221    Marshall Islands                             4,500    2004
222    Norfolk Island                               2,532    2004
223    Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)             2,400   2002
224    Timor-Leste                                  2,400    2006
225    Saint Helena                                 2,200    2002
226    Nauru                                        1,900    2002
227    Wallis and Futuna                            1,900    2002
228    Niue                                         1,100    2002 est.
229    Tuvalu                                        900     2005
230    Tokelau                                       300     2002
231    Cocos (Keeling) Islands                       287     1992
232    Pitcairn Islands                                1     2004
233    Antarctica                                      0     2001

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2151

Rank   Country                           Telephones - mobile cellular  Date of Information

1      World                                  2,168,433,600  2005
2      China                                   547,286,000   2007
3      European Union                          466,000,000   2005
4      India                                   296,080,000   2008
5      United States                           255,000,000   2007
6      Russia                                  170,000,000   2007
7      Brazil                                  120,980,000   2007
8      Japan                                   107,339,000   2007
9      Germany                                  97,151,000   2007
10     Pakistan                                 88,020,000   2008
11     Indonesia                                81,835,000   2007
12     Italy                                    78,571,000   2006
13     United Kingdom                           71,992,000   2007
14     Mexico                                   68,254,000   2007
15     Turkey                                   61,976,000   2007
16     France                                   56,719,000   2007
17     Ukraine                                  55,240,000   2007
18     Philippines                              51,795,000   2007
19     Thailand                                 51,377,000   2007
20     Spain                                    48,813,000   2007
21     Korea, South                             43,500,000   2007
22     South Africa                             42,300,000   2007
23     Poland                                   41,389,000   2007
24     Argentina                                40,402,000   2007
25     Nigeria                                  40,395,000   2007
26     Bangladesh                               34,370,000   2007
27     Colombia                                 33,941,000   2007
28     Vietnam                                  33,200,000   2007
29     Egypt                                    30,065,000   2007
30     Iran                                     29,770,000   2007
31     Saudi Arabia                             28,381,000   2007
32     Algeria                                  27,563,000   2007
33     Taiwan                                   24,302,000   2007
34     Venezuela                                23,820,000   2007
35     Malaysia                                 23,347,000   2007
36     Romania                                  22,875,000   2007
37     Australia                                21,260,000   2007
38     Morocco                                  20,029,000   2007
39     Canada                                   18,749,000   2006
40     Netherlands                              17,300,000   2006
41     Peru                                     15,417,000   2007
42     Iraq                                     14,021,000   2007
43     Chile                                    13,955,000   2007
44     Portugal                                 13,413,000   2007
45     Czech Republic                           13,075,000   2007
46     Kazakhstan                               12,588,000   2007
47     Greece                                   11,997,000   2007
48     Kenya                                    11,440,000   2007
49     Hungary                                  11,030,000   2007
50     Hong Kong                                10,550,000   2007
51     Sweden                                   10,371,000   2007
52     Belgium                                  10,230,000   2007
53     Guatemala                                10,150,000   2007
54     Ecuador                                  10,086,000   2007
55     Bulgaria                                  9,897,000   2007
56     Austria                                   9,768,000   2007
57     Tanzania                                  9,358,000   2008
58     Israel                                    8,902,000   2007
59     Serbia                                    8,453,000   2007
60     Switzerland                               8,096,000   2007
61     Sri Lanka                                 7,983,000   2007
62     Tunisia                                   7,842,000   2007
63     Ghana                                     7,604,000   2007
64     United Arab Emirates                      7,595,000   2007
65     Sudan                                     7,464,000   2007
66     Cote d'Ivoire                             7,050,000   2007
67     Syria                                     6,700,000   2007
68     Congo, Democratic Republic of the          6,592,000  2007
69     Denmark                                   6,243,000   2007
70     El Salvador                               6,137,000   2007
71     Finland                                   6,080,000   2007
72     Slovakia                                  6,068,000   2007
73     Belarus                                   5,960,000   2006
74     Uzbekistan                                5,800,000   2007
75     Singapore                                 5,619,000   2007
76     Dominican Republic                        5,513,000   2007
77     Afghanistan                               5,400,000   2008
78     Norway                                    5,192,000   2007
79     Croatia                                   5,035,000   2007
80     Ireland                                   4,940,000   2007
81     Lithuania                                 4,912,000   2007
82     Jordan                                    4,771,000   2007
83     Cameroon                                  4,536,000   2007
84     Libya                                     4,500,000   2007
85     Paraguay                                  4,330,000   2007
86     Azerbaijan                                4,300,000   2007
87     New Zealand                               4,245,000   2007
88     Uganda                                    4,195,000   2007
89     Senegal                                   4,123,000   2007
90     Puerto Rico                               3,354,000   2005
91     Angola                                    3,307,000   2007
92     Mozambique                                3,300,000   2007
93     Bolivia                                   3,254,000   2007
94     Uruguay                                   3,004,000   2007
95     Yemen                                     2,978,000   2006
96     Kuwait                                    2,774,000   2007
97     Zambia                                    2,639,000   2007
98     Cambodia                                  2,583,000   2007
99     Oman                                      2,500,000   2007
100    Jamaica                                   2,495,000   2006
101    Mali                                      2,483,000   2007
102    Bosnia and Herzegovina                    2,450,000   2007
103    Georgia                                   2,400,000   2007
104    Panama                                    2,392,000   2007
105    Albania                                   2,300,000   2007
106    Honduras                                  2,241,000   2006
107    Madagascar                                2,218,000   2007
108    Latvia                                    2,217,000   2007
109    Haiti                                     2,200,000   2007
110    Kyrgyzstan                                2,152,000   2007
111    Nicaragua                                 2,123,000   2007
112    Estonia                                   1,982,000   2007
113    Slovenia                                  1,928,000   2007
114    Benin                                     1,895,000   2007
115    Moldova                                   1,883,000   2007
116    Burkina Faso                              1,611,000   2007
117    Macedonia                                 1,518,000   2007
118    Costa Rica                                1,503,000   2007
119    Laos                                      1,478,000   2007
120    Botswana                                  1,427,000   2007
121    Congo, Republic of the                    1,334,000   2007
122    Mauritania                                1,300,000   2007
123    Qatar                                     1,264,000   2007
124    Lebanon                                   1,260,000   2007
125    Zimbabwe                                  1,226,000   2007
126    Ethiopia                                  1,208,000   2007
127    Togo                                      1,190,000   2007
128    Armenia                                   1,185,400   2006
129    Gabon                                     1,169,000   2007
130    Nepal                                     1,157,000   2006
131    Bahrain                                   1,116,000   2007
132    Malawi                                    1,051,000   2007
133    Gaza Strip                                1,026,000   2007
134    West Bank                                 1,026,000   2007
135    Trinidad and Tobago                       1,008,000   2007
136    Cyprus                                     962,200
137    Mauritius                                  936,000    2007
138    Chad                                       918,400    2007
139    Niger                                      900,000    2007
140    Macau                                      856,200    2008
141    Namibia                                    800,300    2007
142    Gambia, The                                795,900    2007
143    Sierra Leone                               776,000    2007
144    Mongolia                                   775,300    2006
145    Montenegro                                 643,700    2006
146    Rwanda                                     635,100    2007
147    Luxembourg                                 604,200    2007
148    Somalia                                    600,000    2007
149    Liberia                                    563,000    2007
150    Kosovo                                     562,000    2006
151    Lesotho                                    456,000    2007
152    Fiji                                       437,000    2007
153    Swaziland                                  380,000    2007
154    Bahamas, The                               374,000    2007
155    Malta                                      371,500    2007
156    Iceland                                    347,500    2007
157    Brunei                                     339,800    2007
158    Suriname                                   320,000    2006
159    Maldives                                   317,800    2007
160    Papua New Guinea                           300,000    2007
161    Guinea-Bissau                              296,200    2007
162    Guyana                                     281,400    2005
163    Tajikistan                                 265,000    2005
164    Burundi                                    250,000    2007
165    Barbados                                   237,100    2006
166    Equatorial Guinea                          220,000    2007
167    Turkmenistan                               216,900    2006
168    Burma                                      214,200    2006
169    Netherlands Antilles                       200,000    2004
170    Cuba                                       198,300    2007
171    Guinea                                     189,000    2005
172    New Caledonia                              176,400    2007
173    French Polynesia                           174,800    2007
174    Bhutan                                     149,400    2007
175    Cape Verde                                 148,000    2007
176    Central African Republic                   130,000    2007
177    Belize                                     118,300    2007
178    Antigua and Barbuda                        110,200    2006
179    Aruba                                      105,700    2006
180    Saint Lucia                                105,700    2005
181    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines           104,000    2007
182    Guam                                        98,000    2004
183    Samoa                                       86,000    2007
184    Jersey                                      83,900    2004
185    Virgin Islands                              80,300    2005
186    Seychelles                                  77,300    2007
187    Eritrea                                     70,000    2007
188    Timor-Leste                                 69,000    2007
189    Andorra                                     68,500    2007
190    Greenland                                   66,400    2007
191    Bermuda                                     60,100    2006
192    Faroe Islands                               50,000    2006
193    Mayotte                                     48,100    2005
194    Tonga                                       46,500    2007
195    Grenada                                     46,200    2006
196    Djibouti                                    45,000    2007
197    Guernsey                                    43,800    2004
198    Dominica                                    41,800    2004
199    Comoros                                     40,000    2007
200    Cayman Islands                              33,800    2004
201    Sao Tome and Principe                       30,100    2007
202    Liechtenstein                               27,500    2005
203    Micronesia, Federated States of             27,400    2007
204    Vanuatu                                     26,000    2007
205    Northern Mariana Islands                    20,500    2004
206    San Marino                                  17,390    2006
207    Monaco                                      17,200    2005
208    Solomon Islands                             10,900    2007
209    Saint Kitts and Nevis                       10,000    2004
210    Gibraltar                                    9,797    2002
211    British Virgin Islands                       8,000    2002
212    American Samoa                               2,200    2004
213    Anguilla                                     1,800    2002
214    Turks and Caicos Islands                     1,700    1999
215    Cook Islands                                 1,500    2002
216    Nauru                                        1,500    2002
217    Tuvalu                                       1,300    2005
218    Palau                                        1,000    2002
219    Kiribati                                      700     2005
220    Marshall Islands                              700     2005
221    Niue                                          400     2002
222    Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)                0    2001
223    Norfolk Island                                  0     2002
224    Western Sahara                                  0     1999

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2153

Rank   Country                           Internet users      Date of Information

1      World                                  1,018,057,389  2005
2      China                                   253,000,000   2008
3      European Union                          247,000,000   2006
4      United States                           223,000,000   2008
5      Japan                                    88,110,000   2007
6      India                                    80,000,000   2007
7      Brazil                                   50,000,000   2007
8      Germany                                  42,500,000   2007
9      United Kingdom                           40,200,000   2007
10     Korea, South                             35,590,000   2007
11     Italy                                    32,000,000   2007
12     France                                   31,295,000   2007
13     Russia                                   30,000,000   2007
14     Canada                                   28,000,000   2007
15     Iran                                     23,000,000   2007
16     Mexico                                   22,812,000   2007
17     Spain                                    19,690,000   2007
18     Vietnam                                  17,870,000   2007
19     Pakistan                                 17,500,000   2007
20     Poland                                   16,000,000   2007
21     Malaysia                                 15,868,000   2007
22     Netherlands                              15,000,000   2007
23     Taiwan                                   14,760,000   2007
24     Thailand                                 13,416,000   2007
25     Turkey                                   13,150,000   2006
26     Indonesia                                13,000,000   2007
27     Colombia                                 12,100,000   2007
28     Romania                                  12,000,000   2007
29     Australia                                11,240,000   2007
30     Nigeria                                  10,000,000   2007
31     Ukraine                                  10,000,000   2007
32     Argentina                                 9,309,000   2007
33     Egypt                                     8,620,000   2007
34     Peru                                      7,636,000   2007
35     Morocco                                   7,300,000   2007
36     Sweden                                    7,000,000   2007
37     Saudi Arabia                              6,200,000   2007
38     Belarus                                   6,000,000   2007
39     Venezuela                                 5,720,000   2007
40     Chile                                     5,570,000   2007
41     Philippines                               5,300,000   2007
42     Belgium                                   5,220,000   2007
43     South Africa                              5,100,000   2005
44     Switzerland                               4,610,000   2007
45     Czech Republic                            4,400,000   2007
46     Austria                                   4,277,000   2007
47     Hungary                                   4,200,000   2007
48     Hong Kong                                 3,961,000   2007
49     Norway                                    3,800,000   2007
50     Finland                                   3,600,000   2007
51     Portugal                                  3,549,000   2007
52     Algeria                                   3,500,000   2007
53     Denmark                                   3,500,000   2007
54     Syria                                     3,470,000   2007
55     New Zealand                               3,360,000   2007
56     Singapore                                 3,105,000   2007
57     Kenya                                     3,000,000   2007
58     Greece                                    2,540,000   2007
59     Slovakia                                  2,350,000   2007
60     United Arab Emirates                      2,300,000   2007
61     Israel                                    2,000,000   2007
62     Uganda                                    2,000,000   2007
63     Croatia                                   1,995,000   2007
64     Kazakhstan                                1,901,000   2006
65     Bulgaria                                  1,899,000   2007
66     Tunisia                                   1,722,000   2007
67     Ireland                                   1,708,000   2007
68     Dominican Republic                        1,677,000   2007
69     Ecuador                                   1,549,000   2006
70     Costa Rica                                1,500,000   2007
71     Sudan                                     1,500,000   2007
72     Serbia                                    1,500,000   2007
73     Jamaica                                   1,500,000   2007
74     Zimbabwe                                  1,351,000   2007
75     Lithuania                                 1,333,000   2007
76     Guatemala                                 1,320,000   2006
77     Cuba                                      1,310,000   2007
78     Slovenia                                  1,300,000   2007
79     Uzbekistan                                1,200,000   2007
80     Latvia                                    1,177,000   2007
81     Jordan                                    1,127,000   2007
82     Bosnia and Herzegovina                    1,055,000   2007
83     Azerbaijan                                1,036,000   2007
84     Bolivia                                   1,000,000   2007
85     Puerto Rico                               1,000,000   2007
86     Haiti                                     1,000,000   2007
87     Uruguay                                    968,000    2007
88     Lebanon                                    950,000    2006
89     Kuwait                                     900,000    2007
90     Senegal                                    820,000    2007
91     Estonia                                    780,000    2007
92     Sri Lanka                                  771,700    2007
93     Kyrgyzstan                                 750,000    2007
94     El Salvador                                700,000    2006
95     Moldova                                    700,000    2007
96     Macedonia                                  685,000    2007
97     Ghana                                      650,000    2007
98     Afghanistan                                580,000    2007
99     Panama                                     525,200    2007
100    Bangladesh                                 500,000    2007
101    Zambia                                     500,000    2007
102    Albania                                    471,200    2006
103    Trinidad and Tobago                        430,800    2007
104    Tanzania                                   400,000    2007
105    Cyprus                                     380,000    2007
106    Cameroon                                   370,000    2006
107    Georgia                                    360,000    2007
108    Gaza Strip                                 355,500    2007
109    West Bank                                  355,500    2007
110    Qatar                                      351,000    2007
111    Luxembourg                                 345,000    2007
112    Honduras                                   344,100    2006
113    Mauritius                                  340,000    2007
114    Oman                                       340,000    2007
115    Nepal                                      337,100    2007
116    Mongolia                                   320,000    2007
117    Togo                                       320,000    2006
118    Yemen                                      320,000    2007
119    Cote d'Ivoire                              300,000    2006
120    Macau                                      300,000    2007
121    Ethiopia                                   291,000    2007
122    Montenegro                                 280,000    2007
123    Paraguay                                   280,000    2007
124    Libya                                      260,000    2006
125    Bahrain                                    250,000    2007
126    Congo, Democratic Republic of the           230,400   2007
127    Iceland                                    202,300    2007
128    Mozambique                                 200,000    2007
129    Brunei                                     199,532    2007
130    Guyana                                     190,000    2007
131    Armenia                                    172,800    2006
132    Barbados                                   160,000    2005
133    Malta                                      158,000    2007
134    Nicaragua                                  155,000    2006
135    Benin                                      150,000    2007
136    Gabon                                      145,000    2007
137    Malawi                                     139,500    2007
138    Bahamas, The                               120,000    2007
139    Eritrea                                    120,000    2007
140    Madagascar                                 110,000    2006
141    Papua New Guinea                           110,000    2006
142    Saint Lucia                                110,000    2007
143    Namibia                                    101,000    2007
144    Gambia, The                                100,200    2007
145    Angola                                     100,000    2007
146    Rwanda                                     100,000    2007
147    Mali                                       100,000    2007
148    Laos                                       100,000    2007
149    Somalia                                     98,000    2007
150    Botswana                                    80,000    2007
151    New Caledonia                               80,000    2006
152    Burkina Faso                                80,000    2006
153    Fiji                                        80,000    2006
154    French Polynesia                            75,000    2007
155    Cambodia                                    70,000    2007
156    Lesotho                                     70,000    2007
157    Turkmenistan                                70,000    2007
158    Congo, Republic of the                      70,000    2006
159    Guam                                        65,000    2005
160    Antigua and Barbuda                         60,000    2007
161    Burundi                                     60,000    2006
162    Chad                                        60,000    2006
163    Andorra                                     58,900    2007
164    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines            57,000    2007
165    Iraq                                        54,000    2007
166    Greenland                                   52,000    2007
167    Guinea                                      50,000    2006
168    Bermuda                                     48,000    2007
169    Suriname                                    44,000    2007
170    Swaziland                                   42,000    2006
171    Burma                                       40,000    2007
172    Bhutan                                      40,000    2007
173    Niger                                       40,000    2006
174    Cape Verde                                  37,000    2007
175    Guinea-Bissau                               37,000    2006
176    Guernsey                                    36,000    2005
177    Faroe Islands                               34,000    2006
178    Maldives                                    33,000    2007
179    Belize                                      32,000    2007
180    Seychelles                                  32,000    2007
181    Mauritania                                  30,000    2006
182    Virgin Islands                              30,000    2007
183    Jersey                                      27,000    2005
184    Dominica                                    26,500    2006
185    Aruba                                       24,000    2007
186    Grenada                                     23,000    2007
187    Sao Tome and Principe                       23,000    2007
188    Cayman Islands                              22,000    2007
189    Liechtenstein                               22,000    2006
190    Comoros                                     21,000    2006
191    Monaco                                      20,000    2006
192    Tajikistan                                  19,500    2005
193    Vanuatu                                     17,000    2007
194    San Marino                                  15,400    2006
195    Micronesia, Federated States of             15,000    2007
196    Central African Republic                    13,000    2006
197    Sierra Leone                                13,000    2007
198    Djibouti                                    11,000    2006
199    Northern Mariana Islands                    10,000    2003
200    Saint Kitts and Nevis                       10,000    2002
201    Tonga                                        8,400    2007
202    Solomon Islands                              8,000    2006
203    Equatorial Guinea                            8,000    2006
204    Samoa                                        8,000    2006
205    Gibraltar                                    6,200    2002
206    British Virgin Islands                       4,000    2002
207    Cook Islands                                 3,600    2002
208    Anguilla                                     3,000    2002
209    Marshall Islands                             2,200    2006
210    Kiribati                                     2,000    2007
211    Netherlands Antilles                         2,000    2000
212    Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)             1,900   2002
213    Tuvalu                                       1,300    2002
214    Timor-Leste                                  1,200    2006
215    Liberia                                      1,000    2002
216    Saint Helena                                 1,000    2003
217    Niue                                          900     2002
218    Wallis and Futuna                             900     2002
219    Norfolk Island                                700     2002 est.
220    Christmas Island                              464     2001
221    Nauru                                         300     2002
222    Holy See (Vatican City)                        93     2000

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2155

Rank   Country                           HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate(%)  Date of Information

1      Swaziland                             38.80           2003 est.
2      Botswana                              37.30           2003 est.
3      Lesotho                               28.90           2003 est.
4      Zimbabwe                              24.60           2001 est.
5      South Africa                          21.50           2003 est.
6      Namibia                               21.30           2003 est.
7      Zambia                                16.50           2003 est.
8      Malawi                                14.20           2003 est.
9      Central African Republic              13.50           2003 est.
10     Mozambique                            12.20           2003 est.
11     Guinea-Bissau                         10.00           2003 est.
12     Tanzania                               8.80           2003 est.
13     Gabon                                  8.10           2003 est.
14     Cote d'Ivoire                          7.00           2003 est.
15     Sierra Leone                           7.00           2001 est.
16     Cameroon                               6.90           2003 est.
17     Kenya                                  6.70           2003 est.
18     Burundi                                6.00           2003 est.
19     Liberia                                5.90           2003 est.
20     Haiti                                  5.60           2003 est.
21     Nigeria                                5.40           2003 est.
22     Rwanda                                 5.10           2003 est.
23     Congo, Republic of the                 4.90           2003 est.
24     Chad                                   4.80           2003 est.
25     Ethiopia                               4.40           2003 est.
26     Congo, Democratic Republic of the       4.20          2003 est.
27     Burkina Faso                           4.20           2003 est.
28     Togo                                   4.10           2003 est.
29     Uganda                                 4.10           2003 est.
30     Angola                                 3.90           2003 est.
31     Equatorial Guinea                      3.40           2001 est.
32     Guinea                                 3.20           2003 est.
33     Trinidad and Tobago                    3.20           2003 est.
34     Ghana                                  3.10           2003 est.
35     Bahamas, The                           3.00           2003 est.
36     Djibouti                               2.90           2003 est.
37     Eritrea                                2.70           2003 est.
38     Cambodia                               2.60           2003 est.
39     Guyana                                 2.50           2003 est.
40     Belize                                 2.40           2003 est.
41     Sudan                                  2.30           2001 est.
42     Benin                                  1.90           2003 est.
43     Mali                                   1.90           2003 est.
44     Honduras                               1.80           2003 est.
45     Dominican Republic                     1.70           2003 est.
46     Madagascar                             1.70           2003 est.
47     Suriname                               1.70           2001 est.
48     Barbados                               1.50           2003 est.
49     Thailand                               1.50           2003 est.
50     Ukraine                                1.40           2003 est.
51     Burma                                  1.20           2003 est.
52     Niger                                  1.20           2003 est.
53     Jamaica                                1.20           2003 est.
54     Gambia, The                            1.20           2003 est.
55     Estonia                                1.10           2001 est.
56     Russia                                 1.10           2001 est.
57     Guatemala                              1.10           2003 est.
58     Somalia                                1.00           2001 est.
59     India                                  0.90           2001 est.
60     Panama                                 0.90           2003 est.
61     Senegal                                0.80           2003 est.
62     Argentina                              0.70           2001 est.
63     Brazil                                 0.70           2003 est.
64     Venezuela                              0.70           2001 est.
65     Spain                                  0.70           2001 est.
66     El Salvador                            0.70           2003 est.
67     Colombia                               0.70           2003 est.
68     Costa Rica                             0.60           2003 est.
69     Mauritania                             0.60           2003 est.
70     Latvia                                 0.60           2001 est.
71     United States                          0.60           2003 est.
72     Papua New Guinea                       0.60           2003 est.
73     Italy                                  0.50           2001 est.
74     Paraguay                               0.50           2003 est.
75     Peru                                   0.50           2003 est.
76     Nepal                                  0.50           2001 est.
77     France                                 0.40           2003 est.
78     Vietnam                                0.40           2003 est.
79     Switzerland                            0.40           2001 est.
80     Portugal                               0.40           2001 est.
81     Malaysia                               0.40           2003 est.
82     Austria                                0.30           2003 est.
83     Ecuador                                0.30           2003 est.
84     Belarus                                0.30           2001 est.
85     Uruguay                                0.30           2001 est.
86     Chile                                  0.30           2003 est.
87     Mexico                                 0.30           2003 est.
88     Libya                                  0.30           2001 est.
89     Canada                                 0.30           2003 est.
90     Bermuda                                0.30           2005
91     Bahrain                                0.20           2001 est.
92     Belgium                                0.20           2003 est.
93     United Kingdom                         0.20           2001 est.
94     Singapore                              0.20           2003 est.
95     Nicaragua                              0.20           2003 est.
96     Netherlands                            0.20           2001 est.
97     Malta                                  0.20           2001 est.
98     Moldova                                0.20           2001 est.
99     Luxembourg                             0.20           2001 est.
100    Kazakhstan                             0.20           2001 est.
101    Iran                                   0.20           2005 est.
102    Iceland                                0.20           2001 est.
103    Greece                                 0.20           2001 est.
104    Denmark                                0.20           2003 est.
105    United Arab Emirates                   0.18           2001 est.
106    Comoros                                0.12           2001 est.
107    Kuwait                                 0.12           2001 est.
108    Algeria                                0.10           2001 est.
109    Australia                              0.10           2003 est.
110    Bangladesh                             0.10           2001 est.
111    Bolivia                                0.10           2003 est.
112    Bulgaria                               0.10           2001 est.
113    Sri Lanka                              0.10           2001 est.
114    Mauritius                              0.10           2001 est.
115    Morocco                                0.10           2001 est.
116    Georgia                                0.10           2001 est.
117    Fiji                                   0.10           2003 est.
118    Finland                                0.10           2003 est.
119    Czech Republic                         0.10           2001 est.
120    Ireland                                0.10           2001 est.
121    Egypt                                  0.10           2001 est.
122    Cyprus                                 0.10           2003 est.
123    Cuba                                   0.10           2003 est.
124    China                                  0.10           2003 est.
125    Tajikistan                             0.10           2001 est.
126    Syria                                  0.10           2001 est.
127    Sweden                                 0.10           2001 est.
128    Slovenia                               0.10           2001 est.
129    Philippines                            0.10           2003 est.
130    Romania                                0.10           2001 est.
131    Poland                                 0.10           2001 est.
132    Pakistan                               0.10           2001 est.
133    Macedonia                              0.10           2001 est.
134    Yemen                                  0.10           2001 est.
135    Uzbekistan                             0.10           2001 est.
136    Turkmenistan                           0.10           2004 est.
137    Turkey                                 0.10           2001 est.
138    Tunisia                                0.10           2005 est.
139    Mongolia                               0.10           2003 est.
140    Slovakia                               0.10           2001 est.
141    Lithuania                              0.10           2001 est.
142    Lebanon                                0.10           2001 est.
143    Laos                                   0.10           2003 est.
144    Korea, South                           0.10           2003 est.
145    Kyrgyzstan                             0.10           2001 est.
146    Jordan                                 0.10           2001 est.
147    New Zealand                            0.10           2003 est.
148    Norway                                 0.10           2001 est.
149    Maldives                               0.10           2001 est.
150    Oman                                   0.10           2001 est.
151    Japan                                  0.10           2003 est.
152    Iraq                                   0.10           2001 est.
153    Israel                                 0.10           2001 est.
154    Indonesia                              0.10           2003 est.
155    Hungary                                0.10           2001 est.
156    Croatia                                0.10           2001 est.
157    Hong Kong                              0.10           2003 est.
158    Germany                                0.10           2001 est.
159    Brunei                                 0.10           2003 est.
160    Bhutan                                 0.10           2001 est.
161    Bosnia and Herzegovina                 0.10           2001 est.
162    Azerbaijan                             0.10           2003 est.
163    Armenia                                0.10           2003 est.
164    Qatar                                  0.09           2001 est.
165    Cape Verde                             0.04
166    Afghanistan                            0.01           2001 est.
167    Saudi Arabia                           0.01           2001 est.
168    Svalbard                               0.00           2001

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2156

Rank   Country                           HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS  Date of Information

1      South Africa                              5,300,000   2003 est.
2      India                                     5,100,000   2001 est.
3      Nigeria                                   3,600,000   2003 est.
4      Zimbabwe                                  1,800,000   2001 est.
5      Tanzania                                  1,600,000   2003 est.
6      Ethiopia                                  1,500,000   2003 est.
7      Mozambique                                1,300,000   2003 est.
8      Kenya                                     1,200,000   2003 est.
9      Congo, Democratic Republic of the          1,100,000  2003 est.
10     United States                              950,000    2003 est.
11     Zambia                                     920,000    2003 est.
12     Malawi                                     900,000    2003 est.
13     Russia                                     860,000    2001 est.
14     China                                      840,000    2003 est.
15     Brazil                                     660,000    2003 est.
16     Cote d'Ivoire                              570,000    2003 est.
17     Thailand                                   570,000    2003 est.
18     Cameroon                                   560,000    2003 est.
19     Uganda                                     530,000    2001 est.
20     Sudan                                      400,000    2001 est.
21     Ukraine                                    360,000    2001 est.
22     Botswana                                   350,000    2003 est.
23     Ghana                                      350,000    2003 est.
24     Burma                                      330,000    2003 est.
25     Lesotho                                    320,000    2003 est.
26     Burkina Faso                               300,000    2003 est.
27     Haiti                                      280,000    2003 est.
28     Central African Republic                   260,000    2003 est.
29     Burundi                                    250,000    2003 est.
30     Rwanda                                     250,000    2003 est.
31     Angola                                     240,000    2003 est.
32     Vietnam                                    220,000    2003 est.
33     Swaziland                                  220,000    2003 est.
34     Namibia                                    210,000    2001 est.
35     Chad                                       200,000    2003 est.
36     Colombia                                   190,000    2003 est.
37     Cambodia                                   170,000    2003 est.
38     Sierra Leone                               170,000    2001 est.
39     Mexico                                     160,000    2003 est.
40     Guinea                                     140,000    2003 est.
41     Madagascar                                 140,000    2003 est.
42     Italy                                      140,000    2001 est.
43     Mali                                       140,000    2003 est.
44     Spain                                      140,000    2001 est.
45     Argentina                                  130,000    2001 est.
46     France                                     120,000    2003 est.
47     Indonesia                                  110,000    2003 est.
48     Togo                                       110,000    2003 est.
49     Venezuela                                  110,000    1999 est.
50     Liberia                                    100,000    2003 est.
51     Congo, Republic of the                      90,000    2003 est.
52     Dominican Republic                          88,000    2003 est.
53     Peru                                        82,000    2003 est.
54     Guatemala                                   78,000    2003 est.
55     Pakistan                                    74,000    2001 est.
56     Niger                                       70,000    2003 est.
57     Benin                                       68,000    2003 est.
58     Iran                                        66,000    2005 est.
59     Honduras                                    63,000    2003 est.
60     Nepal                                       61,000    2001 est.
61     Eritrea                                     60,000    2003 est.
62     Papua New Guinea                            60,000    2005 est.
63     Canada                                      56,000    2003 est.
64     Malaysia                                    52,000    2003 est.
65     United Kingdom                              51,000    2001 est.
66     Gabon                                       48,000    2003 est.
67     Senegal                                     44,000    2003 est.
68     Germany                                     43,000    2001 est.
69     Somalia                                     43,000    2001 est.
70     El Salvador                                 29,000    2003 est.
71     Trinidad and Tobago                         29,000    2003 est.
72     Chile                                       26,000    2003 est.
73     Jamaica                                     22,000    2003 est.
74     Portugal                                    22,000    2001 est.
75     Ecuador                                     21,000    2003 est.
76     Netherlands                                 19,000    2001 est.
77     Guinea-Bissau                               17,000    2001 est.
78     Kazakhstan                                  16,500    2001 est.
79     Panama                                      16,000    2003 est.
80     Belarus                                     15,000    2001 est.
81     Morocco                                     15,000    2001 est.
82     Paraguay                                    15,000    1999 est.
83     Australia                                   14,000    2003 est.
84     Poland                                      14,000    2003 est.
85     Bangladesh                                  13,000    2001 est.
86     Switzerland                                 13,000    2001 est.
87     Costa Rica                                  12,000    2003 est.
88     Yemen                                       12,000    2001 est.
89     Japan                                       12,000    2003 est.
90     Egypt                                       12,000    2001 est.
91     Guyana                                      11,000    2003 est.
92     Uzbekistan                                  11,000    2003 est.
93     Austria                                     10,000    2003 est.
94     Belgium                                     10,000    2003 est.
95     Libya                                       10,000    2001 est.
96     Mauritania                                   9,500    2003 est.
97     Algeria                                      9,100    2003 est.
98     Greece                                       9,100    2001 est.
99     Djibouti                                     9,100    2003 est.
100    Philippines                                  9,000    2003 est.
101    Korea, South                                 8,300    2003 est.
102    Estonia                                      7,800    2003 est.
103    Latvia                                       7,600    2001 est.
104    Puerto Rico                                  7,397
105    Gambia, The                                  6,800    2003 est.
106    Romania                                      6,500    2001 est.
107    Nicaragua                                    6,400    2003 est.
108    Uruguay                                      6,000    2001 est.
109    Equatorial Guinea                            5,900    2001 est.
110    Bahamas, The                                 5,600    2003 est.
111    Moldova                                      5,500    2001 est.
112    Suriname                                     5,200    2001 est.
113    Denmark                                      5,000    2003 est.
114    Bolivia                                      4,900    2003 est.
115    Singapore                                    4,100    2003 est.
116    Kyrgyzstan                                   3,900    2003 est.
117    Belize                                       3,600    2003 est.
118    Sweden                                       3,600    2001 est.
119    Sri Lanka                                    3,500    2001 est.
120    Cuba                                         3,300    2003 est.
121    Georgia                                      3,000    2003 est.
122    Israel                                       3,000    1999 est.
123    Ireland                                      2,800    2001 est.
124    Lebanon                                      2,800    2003 est.
125    Hungary                                      2,800    2001 est.
126    Armenia                                      2,600    2003 est.
127    Hong Kong                                    2,600    2003 est.
128    Barbados                                     2,500    2003 est.
129    Czech Republic                               2,500    2001 est.
130    Norway                                       2,100    2001 est.
131    Laos                                         1,700    2003 est.
132    Finland                                      1,500    2003 est.
133    Azerbaijan                                   1,400    2003 est.
134    New Zealand                                  1,400    2003 est.
135    Lithuania                                    1,300    2003 est.
136    Oman                                         1,300    2001 est.
137    Cyprus                                       1,000    1999 est.
138    Tunisia                                      1,000    2003 est.
139    Bosnia and Herzegovina                        900     2003 est.
140    Cape Verde                                    775
141    Mauritius                                     700     2001 est.
142    Bahrain                                       600     2003 est.
143    Jordan                                        600     2003 est.
144    Fiji                                          600     2003 est.
145    Iraq                                          500     2003 est.
146    Mongolia                                      500     2003 est
147    Syria                                         500     2003 est.
148    Malta                                         500     2003 est.
149    Luxembourg                                    500     2003 est.
150    Bulgaria                                      346     2001 est.
151    Slovenia                                      280     2001 est.
152    Iceland                                       220     2001 est.
153    Brunei                                        200     2003 est.
154    Slovakia                                      200     2003 est.
155    Croatia                                       200     2001 est.
156    Macedonia                                     200     2003 est.
157    Turkmenistan                                  200     2003 est.
158    Tajikistan                                    200     2003 est.
159    Bermuda                                       163     2005
160    Bhutan                                        100     1999 est.
161    Maldives                                      100     2001 est.
162    Greenland                                     100
163    Svalbard                                        0     2001

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2157

Rank   Country                           HIV/AIDS - deaths   Date of Information

1      South Africa                               370,000    2003 est.
2      India                                      310,000    2001 est.
3      Nigeria                                    310,000    2003 est.
4      Zimbabwe                                   170,000    2003 est.
5      Tanzania                                   160,000    2003 est.
6      Kenya                                      150,000    2003 est.
7      Ethiopia                                   120,000    2003 est.
8      Mozambique                                 110,000    2003 est.
9      Congo, Democratic Republic of the           100,000   2003 est.
10     Zambia                                      89,000    2003 est.
11     Malawi                                      84,000    2003 est.
12     Uganda                                      78,000    2003 est.
13     Thailand                                    58,000    2003 est.
14     Cameroon                                    49,000    2003 est.
15     Cote d'Ivoire                               47,000    2003 est.
16     China                                       44,000    2003 est.
17     Botswana                                    33,000    2003 est.
18     Ghana                                       30,000    2003 est.
19     Lesotho                                     29,000    2003 est.
20     Burkina Faso                                29,000    2003 est.
21     Burundi                                     25,000    2003 est.
22     Haiti                                       24,000    2003 est.
23     Central African Republic                    23,000    2003 est.
24     Sudan                                       23,000    2003 est.
25     Rwanda                                      22,000    2003 est.
26     Angola                                      21,000    2003 est.
27     Burma                                       20,000    2003 est.
28     Ukraine                                     20,000    2003 est.
29     Chad                                        18,000    2003 est.
30     United States                               17,011    2005 est.
31     Swaziland                                   17,000    2003 est.
32     Namibia                                     16,000    2003 est.
33     Brazil                                      15,000    2003 est.
34     Cambodia                                    15,000    2003 est.
35     Mali                                        12,000    2003 est.
36     Sierra Leone                                11,000    2001 est.
37     Togo                                        10,000    2003 est.
38     Congo, Republic of the                       9,700    2003 est.
39     Guinea                                       9,000    2003 est.
40     Russia                                       9,000    2001 est.
41     Vietnam                                      9,000    2003 est.
42     Dominican Republic                           7,900    2003 est.
43     Madagascar                                   7,500    2003 est.
44     Liberia                                      7,200    2003 est.
45     Eritrea                                      6,300    2003 est.
46     Benin                                        5,800    2003 est.
47     Guatemala                                    5,800    2003 est.
48     Mexico                                       5,000    2003 est.
49     Pakistan                                     4,900    2003 est.
50     Niger                                        4,800    2003 est.
51     Peru                                         4,200    2003 est.
52     Honduras                                     4,100    2003 est.
53     Venezuela                                    4,100    2003 est.
54     Colombia                                     3,600    2003 est.
55     Senegal                                      3,500    2003 est.
56     Nepal                                        3,100    2003 est.
57     Gabon                                        3,000    2003 est.
58     Indonesia                                    2,400    2003 est.
59     El Salvador                                  2,200    2003 est.
60     Malaysia                                     2,000    2003 est.
61     Trinidad and Tobago                          1,900    2003 est.
62     Ecuador                                      1,700    2003 est.
63     Iran                                         1,600    2005 est.
64     Argentina                                    1,500    2003 est.
65     Canada                                       1,500    2003 est.
66     Chile                                        1,400    2003 est.
67     Guinea-Bissau                                1,200    2001 est.
68     Guyana                                       1,100    2003 est.
69     Belarus                                      1,000    2001 est.
70     France                                       1,000    2003 est.
71     Italy                                        1,000    2003 est.
72     Spain                                        1,000    2003 est.
73     Portugal                                     1,000    2003 est.
74     Germany                                      1,000    2003 est.
75     Costa Rica                                    900     2003 est.
76     Jamaica                                       900     2003 est.
77     Egypt                                         700     2003 est.
78     Djibouti                                      690     2003 est.
79     Bangladesh                                    650     2001 est.
80     Gambia, The                                   600     2003 est.
81     Paraguay                                      600     2003 est.
82     Papua New Guinea                              600     2003 est.
83     Algeria                                       500     2003 est.
84     Japan                                         500     2003 est.
85     Bolivia                                       500     2003 est.
86     Jordan                                        500     2003 est.
87     Latvia                                        500     2003 est.
88     Suriname                                      500     2003 est.
89     Uzbekistan                                    500     2003 est.
90     Uruguay                                       500     2003 est.
91     United Kingdom                                500     2003 est.
92     Philippines                                   500     2003 est.
93     Panama                                        500     2003 est.
94     Nicaragua                                     500     2003 est.
95     Mauritania                                    500     2003 est.
96     Bermuda                                       392     2005
97     Equatorial Guinea                             370     2001 est.
98     Romania                                       350     2001 est.
99     Moldova                                       300     2001 est.
100    Cape Verde                                    225
101    Armenia                                       200     2003 est.
102    Belize                                        200     2003 est.
103    Oman                                          200     2003 est.
104    Lithuania                                     200     2003 est.
105    Lebanon                                       200     2003 est.
106    Laos                                          200     2003 est.
107    Kazakhstan                                    200     2003 est.
108    Korea, South                                  200     2003 est.
109    Kyrgyzstan                                    200     2003 est.
110    Hong Kong                                     200     2003 est.
111    Georgia                                       200     2003 est.
112    Fiji                                          200     2003 est.
113    Tunisia                                       200     2003 est.
114    Syria                                         200     2003 est.
115    Singapore                                     200     2003 est.
116    New Zealand                                   200     2003 est.
117    Mongolia                                      200     2003 est.
118    Estonia                                       200     2003 est.
119    Cuba                                          200     2003 est.
120    Sri Lanka                                     200     2003 est.
121    Brunei                                        200     2003 est.
122    Bahamas, The                                  200     2003 est.
123    Barbados                                      200     2003 est.
124    Bahrain                                       200     2003 est.
125    Azerbaijan                                    100     2001 est.
126    Turkmenistan                                  100     2004 est.
127    Tajikistan                                    100     2001 est.
128    Switzerland                                   100     2003 est.
129    Sweden                                        100     2003 est.
130    Slovenia                                      100     2003 est.
131    Poland                                        100     2001 est.
132    Norway                                        100     2003 est.
133    Netherlands                                   100     2003 est.
134    Malta                                         100     2003 est.
135    Mauritius                                     100     2001 est.
136    Macedonia                                     100     2003 est.
137    Luxembourg                                    100     2003 est.
138    Slovakia                                      100     2001 est.
139    Israel                                        100     2001 est.
140    Iceland                                       100     2003 est.
141    Hungary                                       100     2001 est.
142    Greece                                        100     2003 est.
143    Finland                                       100     2003 est.
144    Bulgaria                                      100     2001 est.
145    Bosnia and Herzegovina                        100     2001 est.
146    Denmark                                       100     2003 est.
147    Ireland                                       100     2003 est.
148    Belgium                                       100     2003 est.
149    Austria                                       100     2003 est.
150    Czech Republic                                 10     2001 est.
151    Croatia                                        10     2001 est.
152    Svalbard                                        0     2001

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2173

Rank   Country                           Oil - production(bbl/day)  Date of Information

1      World                                    84,790,000   2007 est.
2      Saudi Arabia                             10,250,000   2007 est.
3      Russia                                    9,876,000   2007 est.
4      United States                             8,457,000   2007 est.
5      Iran                                      4,033,000   2007 est.
6      China                                     3,725,000   2008 est.
7      Mexico                                    3,501,000   2007 est.
8      Canada                                    3,425,000   2007 est.
9      United Arab Emirates                      2,948,000   2007 est.
10     European Union                            2,674,000   2007
11     Venezuela                                 2,667,000   2007 est.
12     Kuwait                                    2,613,000   2007 est.
13     Norway                                    2,565,000   2007 est.
14     Nigeria                                   2,352,000   2007 est.
15     Brazil                                    2,277,000   2007 est.
16     Algeria                                   2,173,000   2007 est.
17     Iraq                                      2,094,000   2007 est.
18     Angola                                    1,910,000   2008 est.
19     Libya                                     1,845,000   2007 est.
20     United Kingdom                            1,690,000   2007 est.
21     Kazakhstan                                1,445,000   2007 est.
22     Qatar                                     1,125,000   2007 est.
23     Azerbaijan                                1,099,000   2008 est.
24     Indonesia                                 1,044,000   2007 est.
25     India                                      880,500    2007 est.
26     Argentina                                  790,800    2007 est.
27     Malaysia                                   753,700    2008 est.
28     Oman                                       714,300    2007 est.
29     Egypt                                      664,000    2007 est.
30     Australia                                  600,000    2008 est.
31     Colombia                                   550,000    2008 est.
32     Ecuador                                    511,600    2007 est.
33     Sudan                                      466,100    2007 est.
34     Syria                                      433,200    2007 est.
35     Equatorial Guinea                          368,500    2007 est.
36     Vietnam                                    350,700    2007 est.
37     Thailand                                   348,600    2007 est.
38     Yemen                                      320,600    2007 est.
39     Denmark                                    313,800    2007 est.
40     Congo, Republic of the                     261,000
41     Gabon                                      243,900    2007 est.
42     South Africa                               199,100    2007 est.
43     Brunei                                     180,500    2007 est.
44     Turkmenistan                               180,400    2007 est.
45     Italy                                      166,600    2007 est.
46     Trinidad and Tobago                        163,300    2007 est.
47     Chad                                       156,000    2008 est.
48     Germany                                    148,100    2007 est.
49     Japan                                      129,800    2007 est.
50     Peru                                       125,000    2008 est.
51     Romania                                    112,400    2007 est.
52     Ukraine                                    102,400    2007 est.
53     Uzbekistan                                  99,260    2007 est.
54     Netherlands                                 88,950    2007 est.
55     Cameroon                                    87,400    2008 est.
56     Tunisia                                     86,210    2007 est.
57     Timor-Leste                                 78,480    2007 est.
58     France                                      69,680    2007 est.
59     Pakistan                                    68,670    2007 est.
60     Bolivia                                     61,790    2007 est.
61     Cuba                                        61,300    2008 est.
62     Cote d'Ivoire                               54,400    2008 est.
63     Bahrain                                     48,610    2007 est.
64     New Zealand                                 47,850    2007 est.
65     Turkey                                      42,800    2007 est.
66     Papua New Guinea                            42,100    2008 est.
67     Poland                                      37,670    2007 est.
68     Belarus                                     33,700    2007 est.
69     Hungary                                     32,580    2007 est.
70     Spain                                       29,000    2007 est.
71     Austria                                     24,920    2007 est.
72     Philippines                                 23,930    2007 est.
73     Croatia                                     23,620    2007 est.
74     Congo, Democratic Republic of the            22,160   2007 est.
75     Burma                                       21,900    2007 est.
76     Korea, South                                20,970    2007 est.
77     Virgin Islands                              17,620    2007 est.
78     Guatemala                                   15,820    2007 est.
79     Mauritania                                  14,990    2007 est.
80     Czech Republic                              13,530    2007 est.
81     Suriname                                    13,000    2007 est.
82     Slovakia                                    12,770    2007 est.
83     Chile                                       11,610    2007 est.
84     Serbia                                      11,410    2007 est.
85     Taiwan                                      10,600    2007 est.
86     Singapore                                    9,836    2007 est.
87     Finland                                      8,951    2007 est.
88     Belgium                                      8,671    2007 est.
89     Lithuania                                    8,250    2007 est.
90     Ghana                                        7,571    2007 est.
91     Estonia                                      7,430    2007 est.
92     Bangladesh                                   6,746    2007 est.
93     Albania                                      6,425    2007 est.
94     Portugal                                     6,281    2007 est.
95     Israel                                       5,966    2007 est.
96     Greece                                       4,265    2007 est.
97     Morocco                                      3,746    2007 est.
98     Bulgaria                                     3,661    2007 est.
99     Switzerland                                  3,202    2007 est.
100    Belize                                       3,000    2007 est.
101    Aruba                                        2,356    2007 est.
102    Sweden                                       2,350    2007 est.
103    Puerto Rico                                  1,354    2007 est.
104    Barbados                                     1,111    2007 est.
105    Georgia                                       979     2007 est.
106    Kyrgyzstan                                    965     2007 est.
107    Uruguay                                       936     2007 est.
108    Tajikistan                                    281     2007 est.
109    Zambia                                        150     2007 est.
110    Korea, North                                  141     2007 est.
111    Madagascar                                     92     2007 est.
112    Dominican Republic                             12     2004
113    Ethiopia                                        7     2007 est.
114    Slovenia                                        5     2007 est.
115    Sierra Leone                                    1     2007 est.
116    Antigua and Barbuda                             0     2007 est.
117    Botswana                                        0     2007 est.
118    Bosnia and Herzegovina                          0     2007 est.
119    Solomon Islands                                 0     2007 est.
120    Zimbabwe                                        0     2007 est.
121    Swaziland                                       0     2007 est.
122    Samoa                                           0     2007 est.
123    Western Sahara                                  0     2007 est.
124    Namibia                                         0     2007 est.
125    British Virgin Islands                          0     2007 est.
126    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines                0     2007 est.
127    Burkina Faso                                    0     2007 est.
128    Uganda                                          0     2007 est.
129    Tanzania                                        0     2007 est.
130    Sao Tome and Principe                           0     2007 est.
131    Togo                                            0     2007 est.
132    Tonga                                           0     2007 est.
133    Turks and Caicos Islands                        0     2007 est.
134    Saint Lucia                                     0     2007 est.
135    Somalia                                         0     2007 est.
136    Saint Helena                                    0     2007 est.
137    Senegal                                         0     2005 est.
138    Seychelles                                      0     2007 est.
139    Saint Kitts and Nevis                           0     2007 est.
140    Saint Pierre and Miquelon                       0     2007 est.
141    Rwanda                                          0     2007 est.
142    Guinea-Bissau                                   0     2007 est.
143    Panama                                          0     2007 est.
144    Paraguay                                        0     2007 est.
145    Nicaragua                                       0     2005 est.
146    Netherlands Antilles                            0     2005 est.
147    Nauru                                           0     2007 est.
148    Nepal                                           0     2007 est.
149    Vanuatu                                         0     2007 est.
150    Niger                                           0     2007 est.
151    Niue                                            0     2007 est.
152    New Caledonia                                   0     2007 est.
153    Mozambique                                      0     2007 est.
154    Maldives                                        0     2007 est.
155    Malta                                           0     2007 est.
156    Mauritius                                       0     2007 est.
157    Macau                                           0     2007 est.
158    Luxembourg                                      0     2007 est.
159    Lesotho                                         0     2007 est.
160    Liberia                                         0     2007 est.
161    Latvia                                          0     2007 est.
162    Lebanon                                         0     2007 est.
163    Laos                                            0     2007 est.
164    Kosovo                                          0     2007
165    Kiribati                                        0     2007 est.
166    Mali                                            0     2007 est.
167    Macedonia                                       0     2007
168    Montenegro                                      0     2007 est.
169    Malawi                                          0     2007 est.
170    Montserrat                                      0     2007 est.
171    Mongolia                                        0     2007 est.
172    Moldova                                         0     2007 est.
173    Kenya                                           0     2008 est.
174    Jordan                                          0     2005 est.
175    Jamaica                                         0     2005 est.
176    Iceland                                         0     2007 est.
177    Gambia, The                                     0     2007 est.
178    French Polynesia                                0     2007 est.
179    Faroe Islands                                   0     2007 est.
180    Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)                0    2007 est.
181    Fiji                                            0     2007 est.
182    El Salvador                                     0     2005
183    Eritrea                                         0     2007 est.
184    Ireland                                         0     2005 est.
185    Dominica                                        0     2007 est.
186    Djibouti                                        0     2007 est.
187    Cyprus                                          0     2008 est.
188    Cook Islands                                    0     2007 est.
189    Honduras                                        0     2007 est.
190    Hong Kong                                       0     2007 est.
191    Haiti                                           0     2007 est.
192    Guyana                                          0     2007 est.
193    Guinea                                          0     2007 est.
194    Guam                                            0     2007 est.
195    Greenland                                       0     2007 est.
196    Grenada                                         0     2007 est.
197    Gibraltar                                       0     2007 est.
198    Cape Verde                                      0     2007 est.
199    Central African Republic                        0     2007 est.
200    Costa Rica                                      0     2004
201    Comoros                                         0     2007 est.
202    Cayman Islands                                  0     2007 est.
203    Sri Lanka                                       0     2005 est.
204    Cambodia                                        0     2007 est.
205    Burundi                                         0     2007 est.
206    Bhutan                                          0     2007 est.
207    Benin                                           0     2007 est.
208    Bahamas, The                                    0     2007 est.
209    Bermuda                                         0     2007 est.
210    Armenia                                         0     2007 est.
211    American Samoa                                  0     2007 est.
212    Afghanistan                                     0     2007 est.

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2174

Rank   Country                           Oil - consumption(bbl/day)  Date of Information

1      World                                    85,270,000   2007 est.
2      United States                            20,680,000   2007 est.
3      European Union                           14,390,000   2007
4      China                                     7,578,000   2007 est.
5      Japan                                     5,007,000   2007 est.
6      Russia                                    2,858,000   2007 est.
7      India                                     2,722,000   2007 est.
8      Germany                                   2,456,000   2007 est.
9      Brazil                                    2,372,000   2007 est.
10     Canada                                    2,371,000   2007 est.
11     Saudi Arabia                              2,311,000   2007 est.
12     Korea, South                              2,214,000   2007 est.
13     Mexico                                    2,119,000   2007 est.
14     France                                    1,950,000   2007 est.
15     United Kingdom                            1,763,000   2007 est.
16     Italy                                     1,702,000   2007 est.
17     Iran                                      1,679,000   2006 est.
18     Spain                                     1,611,000   2007 est.
19     Indonesia                                 1,219,000   2006 est.
20     Netherlands                                984,200    2007 est.
21     Australia                                  966,200    2007 est.
22     Taiwan                                     950,500    2006 est.
23     Thailand                                   928,600    2006 est.
24     Singapore                                  834,600    2006 est.
25     Venezuela                                  738,300    2007 est.
26     Turkey                                     676,600    2007 est.
27     Egypt                                      652,700    2006 est.
28     Belgium                                    628,500    2007 est.
29     Argentina                                  525,100    2006 est.
30     Poland                                     524,000    2007 est.
31     South Africa                               504,900    2006 est.
32     Malaysia                                   501,100    2006 est.
33     Greece                                     441,400    2007 est.
34     United Arab Emirates                       381,000    2006 est.
35     Sweden                                     353,700    2007 est.
36     Pakistan                                   345,000    2006 est.
37     Ukraine                                    344,000    2006 est.
38     Philippines                                340,100    2006 est.
39     Kuwait                                     334,700    2006 est.
40     Nigeria                                    312,000    2006 est.
41     Portugal                                   301,000    2007 est.
42     Iraq                                       295,000    2007 est.
43     Hong Kong                                  293,100    2006 est.
44     Austria                                    289,400    2007 est.
45     Algeria                                    279,800    2006 est.
46     Libya                                      278,700    2006 est.
47     Vietnam                                    271,100    2007 est.
48     Colombia                                   265,400    2006 est.
49     Syria                                      261,000    2006 est.
50     Chile                                      253,000    2006 est.
51     Switzerland                                244,900    2007 est.
52     Kazakhstan                                 243,100    2006 est.
53     Romania                                    238,200    2006 est.
54     Israel                                     232,300    2006 est.
55     Finland                                    228,200    2007 est.
56     Norway                                     224,500    2007 est.
57     Puerto Rico                                215,000    2007 est.
58     Czech Republic                             207,400    2007 est.
59     Cuba                                       203,500    2006 est.
60     Ireland                                    200,900    2007 est.
61     Denmark                                    190,600    2007 est.
62     Belarus                                    179,700    2006 est.
63     Morocco                                    179,700    2006 est.
64     Peru                                       167,900    2006 est.
65     Hungary                                    162,800    2007 est.
66     Ecuador                                    160,500    2006 est.
67     Azerbaijan                                 160,000    2007 est.
68     New Zealand                                158,400    2007 est.
69     Uzbekistan                                 157,100    2006 est.
70     Yemen                                      135,400    2006 est.
71     Dominican Republic                         117,300    2006 est.
72     Jordan                                     110,700    2006 est.
73     Bulgaria                                   109,600    2006 est.
74     Qatar                                      108,900    2006 est.
75     Turkmenistan                               107,400    2006 est.
76     Lebanon                                    106,000    2006 est.
77     Croatia                                    101,800    2006 est.
78     Panama                                      92,790    2006 est.
79     Virgin Islands                              91,680    2007 est.
80     Tunisia                                     91,110    2006 est.
81     Bangladesh                                  89,940    2006 est.
82     Sri Lanka                                   86,030    2006 est.
83     Serbia                                      85,000    2003 est.
84     Slovakia                                    82,860    2007 est.
85     Sudan                                       79,760    2006 est.
86     Guatemala                                   74,230    2006 est.
87     Jamaica                                     73,370    2006 est.
88     Oman                                        69,100    2006 est.
89     Netherlands Antilles                        67,450    2006 est.
90     Kenya                                       65,530    2006 est.
91     Luxembourg                                  60,640    2007 est.
92     Cyprus                                      57,830    2006 est.
93     Lithuania                                   57,170    2006 est.
94     Angola                                      55,640    2006 est.
95     Slovenia                                    54,310    2006 est.
96     Ghana                                       49,300    2006 est.
97     Honduras                                    46,830    2006 est.
98     Costa Rica                                  45,600    2006 est.
99     El Salvador                                 44,330    2006 est.
100    Burma                                       43,140    2006 est.
101    Armenia                                     41,090    2006 est.
102    Senegal                                     36,200    2006 est.
103    Latvia                                      35,180    2006 est.
104    Uruguay                                     33,400    2007 est.
105    Bahrain                                     32,830    2006 est.
106    Tajikistan                                  31,590    2006 est.
107    Bolivia                                     31,500    2007 est.
108    Albania                                     30,900    2006 est.
109    Ethiopia                                    30,450    2006 est.
110    Estonia                                     30,440    2006 est.
111    Papua New Guinea                            29,050    2006 est.
112    Nicaragua                                   28,880    2006 est.
113    Trinidad and Tobago                         28,730    2006 est.
114    Bosnia and Herzegovina                      27,590    2006 est.
115    Paraguay                                    27,410    2006 est.
116    Tanzania                                    27,270    2006 est.
117    Bahamas, The                                26,830    2006 est.
118    Cote d'Ivoire                               25,950    2006 est.
119    Cameroon                                    24,500    2006 est.
120    Korea, North                                24,000    2006 est.
121    Gibraltar                                   22,620    2006 est.
122    Mauritius                                   22,450    2006 est.
123    Iceland                                     21,120    2007 est.
124    Namibia                                     19,840    2006 est.
125    Macedonia                                   19,590    2006 est.
126    Mauritania                                  19,320    2006 est.
127    Malta                                       18,680    2006 est.
128    Madagascar                                  18,190    2006 est.
129    Togo                                        17,770    2006 est.
130    Nepal                                       16,960    2006 est.
131    Macau                                       16,570    2006 est.
132    Moldova                                     15,770    2006 est.
133    Zambia                                      14,760    2006 est.
134    Zimbabwe                                    14,590    2006 est.
135    Mozambique                                  14,390    2006 est.
136    Brunei                                      13,200    2006 est.
137    Gabon                                       13,170    2006 est.
138    Georgia                                     12,980    2006 est.
139    Mongolia                                    12,860    2006 est.
140    Guam                                        12,780    2007 est.
141    Haiti                                       12,370    2006 est.
142    Suriname                                    12,370    2006 est.
143    Kyrgyzstan                                  12,330    2006 est.
144    Djibouti                                    12,170    2006 est.
145    Botswana                                    11,640    2006 est.
146    Uganda                                      11,570    2006 est.
147    New Caledonia                               11,560    2006 est.
148    Congo, Democratic Republic of the            10,460   2006 est.
149    Guyana                                      10,440    2006 est.
150    Fiji                                         9,971    2006 est.
151    Benin                                        9,232    2007 est.
152    Barbados                                     8,674    2006 est.
153    Guinea                                       8,559    2006 est.
154    Burkina Faso                                 8,470    2006 est.
155    Sierra Leone                                 8,430    2006 est.
156    Congo, Republic of the                       7,677    2006 est.
157    Aruba                                        7,102    2006 est.
158    Belize                                       7,000    2006 est.
159    Seychelles                                   6,560    2006 est.
160    Malawi                                       6,160    2006 est.
161    French Polynesia                             6,082    2006 est.
162    Niger                                        5,550    2006 est.
163    Maldives                                     5,490    2006 est.
164    Rwanda                                       5,320    2006 est.
165    Eritrea                                      5,186    2006 est.
166    Somalia                                      5,040    2006 est.
167    Afghanistan                                  5,036    2006 est.
168    Mali                                         4,640    2006 est.
169    Faroe Islands                                4,628    2006 est.
170    Bermuda                                      4,566    2006 est.
171    Antigua and Barbuda                          4,109    2006 est.
172    American Samoa                               4,053    2006 est.
173    Greenland                                    3,927    2006 est.
174    Cambodia                                     3,736    2006 est.
175    Liberia                                      3,687    2006 est.
176    Swaziland                                    3,490    2006 est.
177    Laos                                         2,996    2006 est.
178    Burundi                                      2,956    2006 est.
179    Saint Lucia                                  2,780    2006 est.
180    Cayman Islands                               2,767    2006 est.
181    Guinea-Bissau                                2,520    2006 est.
182    Central African Republic                     2,322    2006 est.
183    Cape Verde                                   2,117    2006 est.
184    Gambia, The                                  2,082    2006 est.
185    Grenada                                      2,043    2006 est.
186    Western Sahara                               1,760    2006 est.
187    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines             1,570    2006 est.
188    Lesotho                                      1,400    2006 est.
189    Chad                                         1,352    2006 est.
190    Solomon Islands                              1,320    2006 est.
191    Bhutan                                       1,250    2006 est.
192    Samoa                                        1,130    2006 est.
193    Nauru                                        1,070    2006 est.
194    Saint Kitts and Nevis                         950     2006 est.
195    Equatorial Guinea                             918     2006 est.
196    Tonga                                         870     2006 est.
197    Dominica                                      851     2006 est.
198    Comoros                                       712     2006 est.
199    Vanuatu                                       660     2006 est.
200    Sao Tome and Principe                         660     2006 est.
201    British Virgin Islands                        650     2006 est.
202    Saint Pierre and Miquelon                     560     2006 est.
203    Montserrat                                    506     2006 est.
204    Cook Islands                                  464     2006 est.
205    Montenegro                                    450     2004
206    Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)              252    2006 est.
207    Kiribati                                      232     2006 est.
208    Turks and Caicos Islands                       80     2006 est.
209    Saint Helena                                   60     2006 est.
210    Niue                                           20     2006 est.

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2175

Rank   Country                           Oil - imports(bbl/day)  Date of Information

1      World                                    65,410,000   2005
2      European Union                           17,710,000   2001
3      United States                            13,710,000   2005
4      Japan                                     5,470,000   2005
5      China                                     3,190,000   2007
6      Germany                                   3,026,000   2005
7      Netherlands                               2,648,000   2005
8      France                                    2,465,000   2005
9      Korea, South                              2,410,000   2006
10     Italy                                     2,223,000   2005
11     India                                     2,159,000   2005 est.
12     Singapore                                 2,003,000   2005
13     Spain                                     1,777,000   2005
14     United Kingdom                            1,673,000   2005
15     Canada                                    1,229,000   2005
16     Taiwan                                    1,208,000   2006
17     Belgium                                   1,119,000   2005
18     Thailand                                   832,900    2005
19     Turkey                                     714,100    2005
20     Brazil                                     648,800    2005
21     Australia                                  615,000    2005
22     Sweden                                     581,000    2005
23     Greece                                     527,200    2005
24     Indonesia                                  500,000    2006 est.
25     Poland                                     499,200    2005
26     Virgin Islands                             492,300    2005
27     Ukraine                                    441,200    2005
28     Belarus                                    394,100    2005 est.
29     Portugal                                   390,300    2005
30     Mexico                                     385,400    2005
31     Philippines                                355,800    2005
32     Israel                                     334,300    2005
33     South Africa                               319,000    2006 est.
34     Hong Kong                                  314,700    2006
35     Austria                                    313,500    2005
36     Malaysia                                   308,500    2005
37     Pakistan                                   290,600    2005
38     Finland                                    281,300    January-September 2007 est.
39     Netherlands Antilles                       277,600    2005
40     Switzerland                                274,900    2005
41     Vietnam                                    271,100    2007
42     Aruba                                      238,200    2005
43     United Arab Emirates                       232,300    2005
44     Puerto Rico                                230,700    2005
45     Czech Republic                             224,600    2005
46     Chile                                      222,900    2006 est.
47     Bahrain                                    221,500    2005
48     Romania                                    219,000    2005
49     Lithuania                                  206,700    2005
50     Ireland                                    194,000    2005
51     Morocco                                    192,500    2005 est.
52     Hungary                                    178,400    2005
53     Iran                                       167,800    2005
54     Denmark                                    164,000    2006 est.
55     Syria                                      160,000    2007 est.
56     Bulgaria                                   158,400    2005 est.
57     Nigeria                                    154,300    2005
58     Egypt                                      140,000    2005
59     New Zealand                                137,300    2005
60     Slovakia                                   134,100    2005
61     Kazakhstan                                 127,600    2005
62     Cuba                                       123,200    2005
63     Dominican Republic                         116,600    2005
64     Peru                                       115,600    2005
65     Jordan                                     112,300    2005 est.
66     Croatia                                    112,200    2005
67     Lebanon                                     97,590    2005
68     Norway                                      92,650    2005
69     Tunisia                                     89,130    2005
70     Panama                                      88,790    2005
71     Sri Lanka                                   87,090    2005
72     Bangladesh                                  83,220    2005
73     Russia                                      73,140    2005
74     Guatemala                                   72,960    2006 est.
75     Kenya                                       72,780    2005
76     Trinidad and Tobago                         72,780    2005
77     Cote d'Ivoire                               71,850    2005
78     Jamaica                                     71,280    2005
79     Bahamas, The                                69,780    2005
80     Luxembourg                                  63,760    2005
81     Yemen                                       62,850    2005
82     Slovenia                                    59,110    2005
83     Cyprus                                      55,970    2005
84     Cameroon                                    50,750    2005
85     Ecuador                                     47,060    2005
86     Ghana                                       45,520    2005
87     Latvia                                      45,340    2005
88     El Salvador                                 45,210    2006
89     Armenia                                     44,670    2005
90     Honduras                                    44,040    2005
91     Uruguay                                     43,670    2007
92     Costa Rica                                  43,110    2005
93     Saudi Arabia                                41,680    2005
94     Senegal                                     40,450    2005
95     Uzbekistan                                  31,440    2005
96     Ethiopia                                    29,820    2005
97     Nicaragua                                   29,700    2005 est.
98     Estonia                                     28,170    2005
99     Bosnia and Herzegovina                      27,370    2005
100    Tanzania                                    26,760    2005
101    Macedonia                                   26,470    2005
102    Paraguay                                    25,940    2007
103    Gibraltar                                   25,080    2005
104    Albania                                     24,860    2005 est.
105    Papua New Guinea                            24,150    2005
106    Mauritius                                   23,650    2006
107    Mauritania                                  23,630    2005
108    Argentina                                   23,380    2005
109    Burma                                       22,180    2005 est.
110    Angola                                      19,550    2005
111    Malta                                       18,910    2005
112    Namibia                                     17,750    2005
113    Iceland                                     17,450    2005
114    Madagascar                                  17,100    2005
115    Benin                                       16,830    2007 est.
116    Togo                                        16,650    2005
117    Georgia                                     15,820    2005
118    Zimbabwe                                    15,800    2005 est.
119    Oman                                        15,440    2005
120    Botswana                                    14,500    2005
121    Moldova                                     14,450    2005
122    Kyrgyzstan                                  14,240    2005
123    Macau                                       13,870    2006
124    Zambia                                      13,810    2005
125    Guam                                        13,530    2005
126    Mozambique                                  13,240    2005
127    Algeria                                     13,110    2005 est.
128    Mongolia                                    12,630    2005 est.
129    Colombia                                    12,480    2005
130    Haiti                                       11,980    2005
131    Djibouti                                    11,810    2005
132    New Caledonia                               11,780    2005
133    Uganda                                      11,540    2005
134    Nepal                                       11,530    2006 est.
135    Guyana                                      10,960    2005
136    Fiji                                        10,900    2005
137    Barbados                                    10,710    2005
138    Korea, North                                10,520    2006 est.
139    Guinea                                       8,811    2005
140    Bolivia                                      8,600    2007 est.
141    Burkina Faso                                 8,446    2005
142    Sierra Leone                                 8,271    2005
143    Congo, Democratic Republic of the             8,220   2006 est.
144    Kuwait                                       8,022    2005
145    Tajikistan                                   7,600    2007
146    Sudan                                        7,558    2005
147    Belize                                       7,122    2005
148    Malawi                                       6,788    2005
149    Suriname                                     6,369    2005
150    French Polynesia                             6,271    2005
151    Seychelles                                   5,722    2005
152    Rwanda                                       5,597    2005
153    Niger                                        5,425    2005
154    Maldives                                     5,362    2005
155    Turkmenistan                                 5,283    2005
156    Eritrea                                      4,924    2005
157    Mali                                         4,860    2005 est.
158    Somalia                                      4,772    2005
159    Faroe Islands                                4,636    2005
160    Antigua and Barbuda                          4,556    2005
161    Afghanistan                                  4,534    2005
162    Bermuda                                      4,378    2005
163    Azerbaijan                                   4,267    2005
164    Greenland                                    4,089    2005
165    American Samoa                               4,066    2005
166    Cambodia                                     3,618    2005
167    Liberia                                      3,593    2005
168    Swaziland                                    3,530    2005
169    Laos                                         3,036    2005
170    Cayman Islands                               2,818    2005
171    Burundi                                      2,635    2005
172    Saint Lucia                                  2,631    2005
173    Guinea-Bissau                                2,560    2005
174    Gabon                                        2,485    2005
175    Gambia, The                                  2,123    2005
176    Central African Republic                     2,057    2005
177    Western Sahara                               1,925    2005
178    Grenada                                      1,844    2005
179    Cape Verde                                   1,785    2005
180    Congo, Republic of the                       1,702    2005
181    Lesotho                                      1,500    2005
182    Chad                                         1,492    2005
183    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines             1,460    2005
184    Solomon Islands                              1,426    2005
185    Bhutan                                       1,152    2005
186    Samoa                                        1,128    2005
187    Equatorial Guinea                            1,070    2005
188    Nauru                                        1,049    2005
189    Tonga                                        1,035    2005
190    Saint Kitts and Nevis                         918     2005
191    Comoros                                       755     2005
192    Vanuatu                                       671     2005
193    Dominica                                      670     2005
194    Sao Tome and Principe                         660     2005
195    British Virgin Islands                        650     2005
196    Libya                                         575     2005
197    Saint Pierre and Miquelon                     557     2005
198    Montserrat                                    483     2005
199    Cook Islands                                  476     2005
200    Brunei                                        304     2005
201    Kiribati                                      259     2005
202    Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)              249    2005
203    Saint Helena                                   85     2005
204    Turks and Caicos Islands                       84     2005
205    Niue                                           27     2005
206    Qatar                                           0     2005
207    Venezuela                                       0     2006 est.

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2176

Rank   Country                           Oil - exports(bbl/day)  Date of Information

1      World                                    66,190,000   2005
2      Saudi Arabia                              8,900,000   2007 est.
3      European Union                            6,979,000   2001
4      Russia                                    5,080,000   2007
5      Norway                                    2,714,000   2005
6      United Arab Emirates                      2,703,000   2005 est.
7      Iran                                      2,520,000   2006 est.
8      Nigeria                                   2,473,000   2005
9      Kuwait                                    2,356,000   2005
10     Canada                                    2,225,000   2005
11     Mexico                                    2,204,000   2005
12     Venezuela                                 2,203,000   2006 est.
13     Algeria                                   1,844,000   2005 est.
14     United Kingdom                            1,749,000   2005
15     Iraq                                      1,670,000   2007 est.
16     Netherlands                               1,639,000   2005
17     Libya                                     1,455,000   2005
18     Kazakhstan                                1,236,000   2005 est.
19     Angola                                    1,230,000   2005
20     Singapore                                 1,203,000   2005
21     United States                             1,165,000   2005
22     Qatar                                     1,026,000   2005
23     Azerbaijan                                 795,600    2007 est.
24     Oman                                       722,000    2005
25     Italy                                      616,700    2005
26     France                                     584,700    2005
27     Germany                                    563,400    2005
28     Malaysia                                   546,300    2005
29     Belgium                                    528,700    2005
30     Brazil                                     481,100    2005
31     Indonesia                                  470,000    2006 est.
32     India                                      450,700    2005 est.
33     Ecuador                                    421,700    2005 est.
34     Virgin Islands                             398,500    2005
35     Vietnam                                    394,400    2005
36     Equatorial Guinea                          375,400    2005
37     Argentina                                  339,900    2005
38     Australia                                  337,400    2005
39     Yemen                                      336,600    2005
40     Denmark                                    320,000    2006
41     Taiwan                                     289,200    2006
42     Sudan                                      282,100    2005
43     Colombia                                   276,100    2005
44     South Africa                               267,700    2005
45     Belarus                                    256,400    2005 est.
46     Gabon                                      255,500    2005
47     Syria                                      254,500    2005 est.
48     Bahrain                                    238,900    2005
49     Aruba                                      233,300    2005
50     Congo, Republic of the                     230,200    2005 est.
51     Sweden                                     219,200    2005
52     Trinidad and Tobago                        218,800    2005
53     Thailand                                   207,400    2005
54     Netherlands Antilles                       206,900    2005
55     Egypt                                      204,700    2005 est.
56     Brunei                                     200,000    2005
57     Ukraine                                    190,500    2005
58     Spain                                      181,800    2005
59     Chad                                       176,700    2005
60     Japan                                      168,800    2005
61     Lithuania                                  148,400    2005
62     Finland                                    126,300    January-September 2007 est.
63     Romania                                    125,200    2005
64     Greece                                     125,100    2005
65     Turkey                                     114,600    2005
66     Cameroon                                   108,800    2005
67     Cote d'Ivoire                               84,940    2005
68     Israel                                      82,910    2005
69     China                                       79,060    2007
70     Tunisia                                     73,790    2005
71     Slovakia                                    72,240    2005
72     Peru                                        69,090    2005 est.
73     Hungary                                     66,660    2005
74     Poland                                      57,920    2005
75     Bulgaria                                    50,530    2005 est.
76     Portugal                                    50,490    2005
77     Austria                                     46,300    2005
78     Croatia                                     43,680    2005
79     Philippines                                 41,160    2005
80     Turkmenistan                                40,000    2007 est.
81     Papua New Guinea                            39,310    2005
82     Bahamas, The                                38,740    2005
83     Chile                                       32,500    2005
84     Ireland                                     29,780    2005
85     Pakistan                                    28,060    2005
86     Czech Republic                              27,360    2005
87     Morocco                                     24,360    2005 est.
88     Hong Kong                                   22,420    2006
89     Congo, Democratic Republic of the            19,820   2005
90     Bolivia                                     18,500    2007 est.
91     Guatemala                                   15,560    2006 est.
92     New Zealand                                 14,570    2005
93     Uzbekistan                                  11,940    2005
94     Puerto Rico                                 10,610    2005
95     Latvia                                      10,070    2005
96     Switzerland                                  9,370    2005
97     Estonia                                      7,000    2005
98     Macedonia                                    6,768    2005
99     Benin                                        6,484    2005
100    Ghana                                        5,709    2005
101    Kenya                                        5,137    2005
102    Burma                                        5,000    2006 est.
103    El Salvador                                  4,963    2006
104    Slovenia                                     4,535    2005
105    Panama                                       4,447    2005
106    Uruguay                                      4,410    2007
107    Senegal                                      4,298    2005
108    Suriname                                     2,899    2005
109    Fiji                                         2,848    2005
110    Kyrgyzstan                                   2,534    2005
111    Georgia                                      2,492    2005
112    Costa Rica                                   2,115    2005
113    Belize                                       1,960    2006
114    Barbados                                     1,750    2005
115    Togo                                         1,547    2005
116    Jamaica                                      1,535    2005
117    Maldives                                     1,499    2005
118    Bangladesh                                   1,351    2005
119    Iceland                                       861     2005
120    Nicaragua                                     809     2005
121    Albania                                       749     2005 est.
122    Madagascar                                    480     2005
123    Sierra Leone                                  432     2005
124    Honduras                                      418     2005
125    New Caledonia                                 356     2005
126    Sri Lanka                                     292     2005
127    Luxembourg                                    282     2005
128    Tajikistan                                    248     2005
129    Zambia                                        191     2005
130    Antigua and Barbuda                           158     2005
131    Greenland                                     150     2005
132    Uganda                                        115     2005
133    Eritrea                                        55     2005
134    Moldova                                        50     2005
135    Gambia, The                                    42     2005
136    Liberia                                        23     2005
137    Djibouti                                       19     2005
138    Afghanistan                                     0     2005
139    Bermuda                                         0     2005
140    American Samoa                                  0     2005
141    Bhutan                                          0     2005
142    Cayman Islands                                  0     2005
143    Central African Republic                        0     2005
144    Saint Lucia                                     0     2005
145    Somalia                                         0     2005
146    Saint Helena                                    0     2005
147    Seychelles                                      0     2006
148    Saint Kitts and Nevis                           0     2005
149    Saint Pierre and Miquelon                       0     2005
150    Rwanda                                          0     2005
151    Guinea-Bissau                                   0     2005
152    Mongolia                                        0     2005 est.
153    Zimbabwe                                        0     2005 est.
154    Swaziland                                       0     2005
155    Samoa                                           0     2005
156    Western Sahara                                  0     2005
157    Namibia                                         0     2005
158    British Virgin Islands                          0     2005
159    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines                0     2005
160    Burkina Faso                                    0     2005
161    Tanzania                                        0     2005
162    Sao Tome and Principe                           0     2005
163    Tonga                                           0     2007 est.
164    Turks and Caicos Islands                        0     2005
165    Macau                                           0     2005
166    Lesotho                                         0     2005
167    Lebanon                                         0     2005
168    Laos                                            0     2005
169    Kiribati                                        0     2005
170    Korea, North                                    0     2006
171    Jordan                                          0     2005 est.
172    Faroe Islands                                   0     2005
173    Paraguay                                        0     2007
174    Nauru                                           0     2005
175    Nepal                                           0     2005
176    Vanuatu                                         0     2005
177    Niger                                           0     2005
178    Niue                                            0     2005
179    Mozambique                                      0     2005
180    Malta                                           0     2005
181    Mauritania                                      0     2005
182    Mauritius                                       0     2006
183    Mali                                            0     2006
184    Malawi                                          0     2005
185    Montserrat                                      0     2005
186    Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)                0    2005
187    Ethiopia                                        0     2005
188    Dominican Republic                              0     2005
189    Dominica                                        0     2005
190    Cyprus                                          0     2005
191    Cook Islands                                    0     2005
192    Cape Verde                                      0     2005
193    Cuba                                            0     2006
194    Haiti                                           0     2005
195    Guyana                                          0     2005
196    Guinea                                          0     2005
197    Guam                                            0     2005
198    Grenada                                         0     2005
199    Gibraltar                                       0     2005
200    French Polynesia                                0     2005
201    Comoros                                         0     2005
202    Cambodia                                        0     2005
203    Burundi                                         0     2005
204    Solomon Islands                                 0     2005
205    Bosnia and Herzegovina                          0     2005
206    Botswana                                        0     2005
207    Armenia                                         0     2005

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2178

Rank   Country                           Oil - proved reserves(bbl)  Date of Information

1      World                               1,332,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
2      Saudi Arabia                         266,800,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
3      Canada                               178,600,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
4      Iran                                 138,400,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
5      Iraq                                 115,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
6      Kuwait                               104,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
7      United Arab Emirates                  97,800,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
8      Venezuela                             87,040,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
9      Russia                                60,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
10     Libya                                 41,460,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
11     Nigeria                               36,220,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
12     Kazakhstan                            30,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
13     United States                         20,970,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
14     China                                 16,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
15     Qatar                                 15,210,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
16     Algeria                               12,200,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
17     Brazil                                12,180,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
18     Mexico                                11,650,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
19     Angola                                 9,035,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
20     Azerbaijan                             7,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
21     Norway                                 6,865,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
22     European Union                         6,144,000,000  1 January 2008
23     India                                  5,625,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
24     Oman                                   5,500,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
25     Sudan                                  5,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
26     Ecuador                                4,517,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
27     Indonesia                              4,370,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
28     Malaysia                               4,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
29     Egypt                                  3,700,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
30     United Kingdom                         3,600,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
31     Yemen                                  3,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
32     Argentina                              2,587,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
33     Syria                                  2,500,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
34     Gabon                                  2,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
35     Congo, Republic of the                 1,600,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
36     Colombia                               1,506,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
37     Australia                              1,500,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
38     Chad                                   1,500,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
39     Denmark                                1,188,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
40     Brunei                                 1,100,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
41     Equatorial Guinea                      1,100,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
42     Trinidad and Tobago                     728,300,000   1 January 2008 est.
43     Romania                                 600,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
44     Turkmenistan                            600,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
45     Vietnam                                 600,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
46     Uzbekistan                              594,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
47     Bolivia                                 465,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
48     Thailand                                460,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
49     Italy                                   406,500,000   1 January 2008 est.
50     Tunisia                                 400,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
51     Ukraine                                 395,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
52     Peru                                    382,900,000   1 January 2008 est.
53     Germany                                 367,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
54     Turkey                                  300,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
55     Pakistan                                289,200,000   1 January 2008 est.
56     Cameroon                                200,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
57     Albania                                 199,100,000   1 January 2008 est.
58     Belarus                                 198,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
59     Congo, Democratic Republic of the        180,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
60     Chile                                   150,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
61     Spain                                   150,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
62     Philippines                             138,500,000   1 January 2008 est.
63     Bahrain                                 124,600,000   1 January 2008 est.
64     Cuba                                    124,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
65     France                                  119,800,000   1 January 2008 est.
66     Cote d'Ivoire                           100,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
67     Mauritania                              100,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
68     Netherlands                             100,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
69     Poland                                   96,380,000   1 January 2008 est.
70     Suriname                                 88,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
71     Papua New Guinea                         88,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
72     Guatemala                                83,070,000   1 January 2008 est.
73     Croatia                                  79,150,000   1 January 2008 est.
74     Serbia                                   77,500,000   1 January 2008 est.
75     New Zealand                              55,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
76     Austria                                  50,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
77     Burma                                    50,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
78     Japan                                    44,120,000   1 January 2008 est.
79     Kyrgyzstan                               40,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
80     Georgia                                  35,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
81     Bangladesh                               28,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
82     Hungary                                  20,180,000   1 January 2008 est.
83     Bulgaria                                 15,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
84     Czech Republic                           15,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
85     South Africa                             15,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
86     Ghana                                    15,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
87     Lithuania                                12,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
88     Tajikistan                               12,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
89     Greece                                   10,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
90     Slovakia                                  9,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
91     Benin                                     8,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
92     Belize                                    6,700,000   1 January 2008 est.
93     Taiwan                                    2,380,000   1 January 2008 est.
94     Barbados                                  2,200,000   1 January 2008 est.
95     Israel                                    1,940,000   1 January 2008 est.
96     Jordan                                    1,000,000   1 January 2008 est.
97     Morocco                                    836,000    1 January 2008 est.
98     Ethiopia                                   428,000    1 January 2008 est.
99     Aruba                                           0     1 January 2006 est.
100    Afghanistan                                     0     1 January 2006 est.
101    Botswana                                        0     1 January 2006 est.
102    Zimbabwe                                        0     1 January 2006 est.
103    Swaziland                                       0     1 January 2006 est.
104    Samoa                                           0     1 January 2006 est.
105    Western Sahara                                  0     1 January 2006 est.
106    Namibia                                         0     1 January 2006 est.
107    British Virgin Islands                          0     1 January 2006 est.
108    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines                0     1 January 2006 est.
109    Burkina Faso                                    0     1 January 2006 est.
110    Uganda                                          0     1 January 2006 est.
111    Tanzania                                        0     1 January 2006 est.
112    Sao Tome and Principe                           0     1 January 2006 est.
113    Togo                                            0     1 January 2006 est.
114    Tonga                                           0     1 January 2007 est.
115    Turks and Caicos Islands                        0     1 January 2006 est.
116    Sweden                                          0     1 January 2006 est.
117    Saint Lucia                                     0     1 January 2006 est.
118    Somalia                                         0     1 January 2006 est.
119    Singapore                                       0     1 January 2006 est.
120    Sierra Leone                                    0     1 January 2006 est.
121    Slovenia                                        0     1 January 2006 est.
122    Saint Helena                                    0     1 January 2006 est.
123    Senegal                                         0     1 January 2006 est.
124    Seychelles                                      0     1 January 2006
125    Saint Kitts and Nevis                           0     1 January 2006 est.
126    Saint Pierre and Miquelon                       0     1 January 2006 est.
127    Rwanda                                          0     1 January 2006 est.
128    Puerto Rico                                     0     1 January 2006 est.
129    New Caledonia                                   0     1 January 2006 est.
130    Mozambique                                      0     1 January 2006 est.
131    Maldives                                        0     1 January 2006 est.
132    Malta                                           0     1 January 2006 est.
133    Mauritius                                       0     1 January 2006 est.
134    Mali                                            0     1 January 2006 est.
135    Macedonia                                       0     1 January 2008 est.
136    Montenegro                                      0     1 January 2006 est.
137    Malawi                                          0     1 January 2006 est.
138    Guinea-Bissau                                   0     1 January 2006 est.
139    Panama                                          0     1 January 2006 est.
140    Paraguay                                        0     1 January 2006 est.
141    Nicaragua                                       0     1 January 2006 est.
142    Netherlands Antilles                            0     1 January 2006 est.
143    Nauru                                           0     1 January 2006 est.
144    Nepal                                           0     1 January 2006 est.
145    Vanuatu                                         0     1 January 2006 est.
146    Niue                                            0     1 January 2006 est.
147    Montserrat                                      0     1 January 2006 est.
148    Mongolia                                        0     1 January 2006 est.
149    Moldova                                         0     1 January 2006 est.
150    Macau                                           0     1 January 2006 est.
151    Madagascar                                      0     1 January 2006 est.
152    Luxembourg                                      0     1 January 2006 est.
153    Iceland                                         0     1 January 2006 est.
154    Grenada                                         0     1 January 2006 est.
155    Gibraltar                                       0     1 January 2006 est.
156    Gambia, The                                     0     1 January 2006 est.
157    French Polynesia                                0     1 January 2006 est.
158    Faroe Islands                                   0     1 January 2006 est.
159    Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)                0    1 January 2006 est.
160    Fiji                                            0     1 January 2006 est.
161    El Salvador                                     0     1 January 2006 est.
162    Eritrea                                         0     1 January 2006 est.
163    Honduras                                        0     1 January 2006 est.
164    Hong Kong                                       0     1 January 2006 est.
165    Haiti                                           0     1 January 2006 est.
166    Guyana                                          0     1 January 2006 est.
167    Guinea                                          0     1 January 2006 est.
168    Guam                                            0     1 January 2006 est.
169    Greenland                                       0     1 January 2006 est.
170    Estonia                                         0     1 January 2006 est.
171    Ireland                                         0     1 January 2006 est.
172    Dominican Republic                              0     1 January 2006 est.
173    Dominica                                        0     1 January 2006 est.
174    Djibouti                                        0     1 January 2006 est.
175    Cook Islands                                    0     1 January 2006 est.
176    Cape Verde                                      0     1 January 2006 est.
177    Central African Republic                        0     1 January 2006 est.
178    Lesotho                                         0     1 January 2006 est.
179    Liberia                                         0     1 January 2006 est.
180    Latvia                                          0     1 January 2006 est.
181    Lebanon                                         0     1 January 2006 est.
182    Laos                                            0     1 January 2006 est.
183    Korea, South                                    0     1 January 2006 est.
184    Kiribati                                        0     1 January 2006 est.
185    Kenya                                           0     1 January 2006 est.
186    Jamaica                                         0     1 January 2006 est.
187    Costa Rica                                      0     1 January 2006 est.
188    Comoros                                         0     1 January 2006 est.
189    Cayman Islands                                  0     1 January 2006 est.
190    Sri Lanka                                       0     1 January 2006 est.
191    Cambodia                                        0     1 January 2006 est.
192    Burundi                                         0     1 January 2006 est.
193    Bhutan                                          0     1 January 2006 est.
194    Solomon Islands                                 0     1 January 2006 est.
195    Bosnia and Herzegovina                          0     1 January 2006 est.
196    Belgium                                         0     1 January 2006 est.
197    Bahamas, The                                    0     1 January 2006 est.
198    Bermuda                                         0     1 January 2006 est.
199    Armenia                                         0     1 January 2006 est.
200    American Samoa                                  0     1 January 2006 est.
201    Antigua and Barbuda                             0     1 January 2006 est.

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2179

Rank   Country                           Natural gas - proved reserves(cu m)  Date of Information

1      World                             175,400,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
2      Russia                             47,570,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
3      Iran                               26,850,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
4      Qatar                              25,630,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
5      Saudi Arabia                        7,167,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
6      United Arab Emirates                6,071,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
7      United States                       5,977,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
8      Nigeria                             5,210,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
9      Venezuela                           4,708,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
10     Algeria                             4,502,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
11     Iraq                                3,170,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
12     Kazakhstan                          2,832,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
13     Turkmenistan                        2,832,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
14     Indonesia                           2,659,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
15     European Union                      2,476,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
16     Malaysia                            2,350,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
17     China                               2,265,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
18     Norway                              2,241,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
19     Uzbekistan                          1,841,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
20     Egypt                               1,656,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
21     Canada                              1,648,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
22     Kuwait                              1,586,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
23     Libya                               1,419,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
24     Netherlands                         1,416,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
25     Ukraine                             1,104,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
26     India                               1,075,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
27     Azerbaijan                           849,500,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
28     Australia                            849,500,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
29     Oman                                 849,500,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
30     Pakistan                             792,800,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
31     Bolivia                              750,400,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
32     Trinidad and Tobago                  531,500,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
33     Yemen                                478,500,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
34     Argentina                            446,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
35     United Kingdom                       412,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
36     Mexico                               392,200,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
37     Brunei                               390,800,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
38     Brazil                               347,700,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
39     Peru                                 337,800,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
40     Thailand                             331,200,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
41     Burma                                283,200,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
42     Angola                               269,800,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
43     Germany                              254,800,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
44     Syria                                240,700,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
45     Papua New Guinea                     226,500,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
46     Timor-Leste                          200,000,000,000  1 January 2006 est.
47     Vietnam                              192,500,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
48     Poland                               164,800,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
49     Bangladesh                           141,600,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
50     Cameroon                             135,100,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
51     Mozambique                           127,400,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
52     Colombia                             122,900,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
53     Philippines                           98,540,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
54     Chile                                 97,970,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
55     Italy                                 94,150,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
56     Bahrain                               92,030,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
57     Congo, Republic of the                90,610,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
58     Sudan                                 84,950,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
59     Cuba                                  70,790,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
60     Denmark                               70,510,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
61     Tunisia                               65,130,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
62     Romania                               63,000,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
63     Namibia                               62,290,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
64     Rwanda                                56,630,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
65     Afghanistan                           49,550,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
66     Serbia                                48,140,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
67     Equatorial Guinea                     36,810,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
68     Israel                                30,440,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
69     New Zealand                           29,670,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
70     Croatia                               28,540,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
71     Gabon                                 28,320,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
72     Mauritania                            28,320,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
73     Cote d'Ivoire                         28,320,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
74     Ethiopia                              24,920,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
75     Ghana                                 22,650,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
76     Japan                                 20,900,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
77     Austria                               16,140,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
78     Slovakia                              14,160,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
79     Ireland                                9,911,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
80     Ecuador                                9,369,000,000  1 January 2006 est.
81     Georgia                                8,495,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
82     Turkey                                 8,495,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
83     Hungary                                8,098,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
84     France                                 7,277,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
85     Tanzania                               6,513,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
86     Taiwan                                 6,229,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
87     Jordan                                 6,031,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
88     Bulgaria                               5,663,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
89     Somalia                                5,663,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
90     Tajikistan                             5,663,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
91     Kyrgyzstan                             5,663,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
92     Czech Republic                         3,964,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
93     Guatemala                              2,960,000,000  1 January 2006 est.
94     Belarus                                2,832,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
95     Spain                                  2,548,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
96     Greece                                 1,982,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
97     Morocco                                1,557,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
98     Benin                                  1,133,000,000  1 January 2008 est.
99     Congo, Democratic Republic of the        991,100,000  1 January 2008 est.
100    Albania                                 849,500,000   1 January 2008 est.
101    Barbados                                141,600,000   1 January 2008 est.
102    South Africa                             27,160,000   1 January 2006 est.
103    Aruba                                           0     1 January 2006
104    Botswana                                        0     1 January 2006 est.
105    Belgium                                         0     1 January 2006
106    Solomon Islands                                 0     1 January 2006 est.
107    Mali                                            0     1 January 2006 est.
108    Macedonia                                       0     1 January 2008 est.
109    Malawi                                          0     1 January 2006 est.
110    Montserrat                                      0     1 January 2006 est.
111    Mongolia                                        0     1 January 2006 est.
112    Moldova                                         0     1 January 2006 est.
113    Macau                                           0     1 January 2006 est.
114    Madagascar                                      0     1 January 2006 est.
115    Lithuania                                       0     1 January 2006 est.
116    Zimbabwe                                        0     1 January 2006 est.
117    Zambia                                          0     1 January 2006 est.
118    Swaziland                                       0     1 January 2006 est.
119    Samoa                                           0     1 January 2006 est.
120    Western Sahara                                  0     1 January 2006 est.
121    Virgin Islands                                  0     1 January 2006 est.
122    British Virgin Islands                          0     1 January 2006 est.
123    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines                0     1 January 2006 est.
124    Uruguay                                         0     1 January 2006 est.
125    Burkina Faso                                    0     1 January 2006 est.
126    Uganda                                          0     1 January 2006 est.
127    Sao Tome and Principe                           0     1 January 2006 est.
128    Togo                                            0     1 January 2006 est.
129    Tonga                                           0     1 January 2007 est.
130    Turks and Caicos Islands                        0     1 January 2006 est.
131    Switzerland                                     0     1 January 2006 est.
132    Sweden                                          0     1 January 2006 est.
133    Saint Lucia                                     0     1 January 2006 est.
134    Singapore                                       0     1 January 2006 est.
135    Sierra Leone                                    0     1 January 2006 est.
136    Slovenia                                        0     1 January 2006 est.
137    Saint Helena                                    0     1 January 2006 est.
138    Seychelles                                      0     1 January 2006 est.
139    Saint Kitts and Nevis                           0     1 January 2006 est.
140    Saint Pierre and Miquelon                       0     1 January 2006 est.
141    Puerto Rico                                     0     1 January 2006 est.
142    Guinea-Bissau                                   0     1 January 2006 est.
143    Portugal                                        0     1 January 2006 est.
144    Panama                                          0     1 January 2006 est.
145    Paraguay                                        0     1 January 2007 est.
146    Nicaragua                                       0     1 January 2006 est.
147    Netherlands Antilles                            0     1 January 2006 est.
148    Suriname                                        0     1 January 2006 est.
149    Nauru                                           0     1 January 2006 est.
150    Nepal                                           0     1 January 2006 est.
151    Vanuatu                                         0     1 January 2006 est.
152    Niger                                           0     1 January 2006 est.
153    Niue                                            0     1 January 2006 est.
154    New Caledonia                                   0     1 January 2006 est.
155    Maldives                                        0     1 January 2006 est.
156    Malta                                           0     1 January 2006 est.
157    Mauritius                                       0     1 January 2006 est.
158    Lebanon                                         0     1 January 2006 est.
159    Laos                                            0     1 January 2006 est.
160    Korea, South                                    0     1 January 2006 est.
161    Kiribati                                        0     1 January 2006 est.
162    Korea, North                                    0     1 January 2007
163    Kenya                                           0     1 January 2006 est.
164    Jamaica                                         0     1 January 2006 est.
165    Iceland                                         0     1 January 2006 est.
166    Luxembourg                                      0     1 January 2006 est.
167    Lesotho                                         0     1 January 2006 est.
168    Liberia                                         0     1 January 2006 est.
169    Honduras                                        0     1 January 2006 est.
170    Hong Kong                                       0     1 January 2006 est.
171    Haiti                                           0     1 January 2006 est.
172    Guyana                                          0     1 January 2006 est.
173    Guinea                                          0     1 January 2006 est.
174    Guam                                            0     1 January 2006 est.
175    Greenland                                       0     1 January 2006 est.
176    Grenada                                         0     1 January 2006 est.
177    Gibraltar                                       0     1 January 2006 est.
178    Gambia, The                                     0     1 January 2006 est.
179    French Polynesia                                0     1 January 2006 est.
180    Faroe Islands                                   0     1 January 2006 est.
181    Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)                0    1 January 2006 est.
182    Fiji                                            0     1 January 2006 est.
183    Finland                                         0     1 January 2006
184    El Salvador                                     0     1 January 2006 est.
185    Eritrea                                         0     1 January 2006 est.
186    Estonia                                         0     1 January 2006 est.
187    Dominican Republic                              0     1 January 2006 est.
188    Dominica                                        0     1 January 2006 est.
189    Djibouti                                        0     1 January 2006 est.
190    Cyprus                                          0     1 January 2006
191    Cook Islands                                    0     1 January 2006 est.
192    Cape Verde                                      0     1 January 2006 est.
193    Central African Republic                        0     1 January 2006
194    Costa Rica                                      0     1 January 2006 est.
195    Comoros                                         0     1 January 2006 est.
196    Cayman Islands                                  0     1 January 2006 est.
197    Sri Lanka                                       0     1 January 2006 est.
198    Chad                                            0     1 January 2006 est.
199    Burundi                                         0     1 January 2006 est.
200    Bhutan                                          0     1 January 2006 est.
201    Belize                                          0     1 January 2006 est.
202    Bosnia and Herzegovina                          0     1 January 2006
203    Bahamas, The                                    0     1 January 2006 est.
204    Bermuda                                         0     1 January 2006 est.
205    Armenia                                         0     1 January 2006
206    American Samoa                                  0     1 January 2006 est.
207    Antigua and Barbuda                             0     1 January 2006 est.

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2180

Rank   Country                           Natural gas - production(cu m)  Date of Information

1      World                               3,021,000,000,000  2007 est.
2      Russia                               656,200,000,000  2007 est.
3      United States                        545,900,000,000  2007 est.
4      European Union                       197,800,000,000  2007 est.
5      Canada                               187,000,000,000  2007 est.
6      Iran                                 111,900,000,000  2007 est.
7      Norway                                92,600,000,000  2007 est.
8      Algeria                               85,700,000,000  2007 est.
9      Netherlands                           76,330,000,000  2007 est.
10     Saudi Arabia                          75,900,000,000  2007 est.
11     United Kingdom                        72,300,000,000  2007 est.
12     China                                 69,270,000,000  2007 est.
13     Turkmenistan                          68,880,000,000  2007 est.
14     Uzbekistan                            65,190,000,000  2007 est.
15     Malaysia                              64,500,000,000  2007 est.
16     Qatar                                 59,800,000,000  2007 est.
17     Indonesia                             56,000,000,000  2007 est.
18     Mexico                                55,980,000,000  2007 est.
19     United Arab Emirates                  48,790,000,000  2006 est.
20     Egypt                                 47,500,000,000  2007 est.
21     Argentina                             44,800,000,000  2007 est.
22     Australia                             43,620,000,000  2007 est.
23     Trinidad and Tobago                   39,000,000,000  2007 est.
24     Nigeria                               34,100,000,000  2007 est.
25     India                                 31,700,000,000  2007 est.
26     Pakistan                              30,800,000,000  2007 est.
27     Kazakhstan                            27,880,000,000  2007 est.
28     Venezuela                             26,500,000,000  2007 est.
29     Thailand                              25,400,000,000  2007 est.
30     Oman                                  24,100,000,000  2007 est.
31     Ukraine                               19,500,000,000  2007 est.
32     Germany                               17,960,000,000  2007 est.
33     Bangladesh                            15,700,000,000  2007 est.
34     Libya                                 14,800,000,000  2006 est.
35     Bolivia                               14,700,000,000  2007 est.
36     Brunei                                13,800,000,000  2006 est.
37     Burma                                 12,600,000,000  2006 est.
38     Kuwait                                12,500,000,000  2006 est.
39     Romania                               12,500,000,000  2006 est.
40     Bahrain                               11,330,000,000  2006 est.
41     Brazil                                 9,800,000,000  2007 est.
42     Azerbaijan                             9,770,000,000  2007 est.
43     Italy                                  9,706,000,000  2007 est.
44     Denmark                                9,223,000,000  2007 est.
45     Syria                                  7,800,000,000  2007 est.
46     Colombia                               7,220,000,000  2006 est.
47     Vietnam                                6,860,000,000  2007 est.
48     Poland                                 6,025,000,000  2007 est.
49     New Zealand                            4,573,000,000  2007 est.
50     Japan                                  3,729,000,000  2007 est.
51     Iraq                                   3,500,000,000  2007 est.
52     South Africa                           2,900,000,000  2006 est.
53     Tunisia                                2,550,000,000  2006 est.
54     Hungary                                2,545,000,000  2007 est.
55     Philippines                            2,200,000,000  2006 est.
56     Austria                                1,848,000,000  2007 est.
57     Chile                                  1,800,000,000  2007 est.
58     Peru                                   1,780,000,000  2006 est.
59     Mozambique                             1,650,000,000  2006 est.
60     Croatia                                1,580,000,000  2006 est.
61     Equatorial Guinea                      1,300,000,000  2006 est.
62     Cote d'Ivoire                          1,300,000,000  2006 est.
63     Cuba                                   1,058,000,000  2006
64     Israel                                  970,000,000   2006 est.
65     France                                  953,000,000   2007 est.
66     Turkey                                  893,000,000   2007 est.
67     Angola                                  680,000,000   2006 est.
68     Serbia                                  650,000,000   2005 est.
69     Ireland                                 457,000,000   2007 est.
70     Taiwan                                  400,000,000   2007 est.
71     Korea, South                            390,000,000   2007 est.
72     Jordan                                  320,000,000   2006 est.
73     Ecuador                                 280,000,000   2006 est.
74     Congo, Republic of the                  180,000,000   2006 est.
75     Czech Republic                          172,000,000   2007 est.
76     Belarus                                 164,000,000   2007 est.
77     Tanzania                                146,000,000   2006 est.
78     Papua New Guinea                        140,000,000   2006 est.
79     Slovakia                                128,000,000   2007 est.
80     Gabon                                   100,000,000   2006 est.
81     Spain                                    88,000,000   2007 est.
82     Morocco                                  60,000,000   2006 est.
83     Moldova                                  50,000,000   2006 est.
84     Senegal                                  50,000,000   2006 est.
85     Tajikistan                               32,000,000   2007 est.
86     Albania                                  30,000,000   2006 est.
87     Barbados                                 29,170,000   2006 est.
88     Greece                                   24,000,000   2007 est.
89     Afghanistan                              20,000,000   2006 est.
90     Cameroon                                 20,000,000   2006 est.
91     Kyrgyzstan                               18,000,000   2007 est.
92     Georgia                                  10,000,000   2007 est.
93     Slovenia                                  4,000,000   2006 est.
94     Aruba                                           0     2007 est.
95     Botswana                                        0     2007 est.
96     Belgium                                         0     2007 est.
97     Belize                                          0     2007 est.
98     Benin                                           0     2007 est.
99     Bhutan                                          0     2007 est.
100    Guinea                                          0     2007 est.
101    Guatemala                                       0     2007 est.
102    Guam                                            0     2007 est.
103    Greenland                                       0     2007 est.
104    Grenada                                         0     2007 est.
105    Gibraltar                                       0     2007 est.
106    Ghana                                           0     2007 est.
107    Gambia, The                                     0     2007 est.
108    French Polynesia                                0     2007 est.
109    Zimbabwe                                        0     2007 est.
110    Zambia                                          0     2007 est.
111    Yemen                                           0     2007 est.
112    Swaziland                                       0     2007 est.
113    Samoa                                           0     2007 est.
114    Western Sahara                                  0     2007 est.
115    Namibia                                         0     2007 est.
116    Virgin Islands                                  0     2007 est.
117    British Virgin Islands                          0     2007 est.
118    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines                0     2007 est.
119    Uruguay                                         0     2007 est.
120    Burkina Faso                                    0     2007 est.
121    Uganda                                          0     2007 est.
122    Timor-Leste                                     0     2007 est.
123    Sao Tome and Principe                           0     2007 est.
124    Togo                                            0     2007 est.
125    Tonga                                           0     2007 est.
126    Turks and Caicos Islands                        0     2007 est.
127    Switzerland                                     0     2007 est.
128    Sweden                                          0     2007 est.
129    Sudan                                           0     2007 est.
130    Saint Lucia                                     0     2007 est.
131    Somalia                                         0     2007 est.
132    Singapore                                       0     2007 est.
133    Sierra Leone                                    0     2007 est.
134    Saint Helena                                    0     2007 est.
135    Seychelles                                      0     2007 est.
136    Saint Kitts and Nevis                           0     2007 est.
137    Saint Pierre and Miquelon                       0     2007 est.
138    Rwanda                                          0     2007 est.
139    Puerto Rico                                     0     2007 est.
140    Guinea-Bissau                                   0     2007 est.
141    Portugal                                        0     2007 est.
142    Panama                                          0     2007 est.
143    Nepal                                           0     2007 est.
144    Vanuatu                                         0     2007 est.
145    Niger                                           0     2007 est.
146    Niue                                            0     2007 est.
147    New Caledonia                                   0     2007 est.
148    Maldives                                        0     2007 est.
149    Malta                                           0     2007 est.
150    Mauritania                                      0     2007 est.
151    Mauritius                                       0     2007 est.
152    Paraguay                                        0     2007 est.
153    Nicaragua                                       0     2007 est.
154    Netherlands Antilles                            0     2007 est.
155    Suriname                                        0     2007 est.
156    Nauru                                           0     2007 est.
157    Mali                                            0     2007 est.
158    Macedonia                                       0     2007 est.
159    Malawi                                          0     2007 est.
160    Montserrat                                      0     2007 est.
161    Mongolia                                        0     2007 est.
162    Macau                                           0     2007 est.
163    Madagascar                                      0     2007 est.
164    Luxembourg                                      0     2007 est.
165    Lesotho                                         0     2007 est.
166    Liberia                                         0     2007 est.
167    Lithuania                                       0     2007 est.
168    Latvia                                          0     2007 est.
169    Lebanon                                         0     2007 est.
170    Laos                                            0     2007 est.
171    Kosovo                                          0     2007
172    Kiribati                                        0     2007 est.
173    Korea, North                                    0     2007 est.
174    Kenya                                           0     2007 est.
175    Jamaica                                         0     2007 est.
176    Iceland                                         0     2007 est.
177    Honduras                                        0     2007 est.
178    Hong Kong                                       0     2007 est.
179    Haiti                                           0     2007 est.
180    Guyana                                          0     2007 est.
181    Faroe Islands                                   0     2007 est.
182    Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)                0    2007 est.
183    Fiji                                            0     2007 est.
184    Finland                                         0     2007 est.
185    Ethiopia                                        0     2007 est.
186    El Salvador                                     0     2007 est.
187    Eritrea                                         0     2007 est.
188    Estonia                                         0     2007 est.
189    Dominican Republic                              0     2007 est.
190    Dominica                                        0     2007 est.
191    Djibouti                                        0     2007 est.
192    Cyprus                                          0     2007 est.
193    Cook Islands                                    0     2007 est.
194    Cape Verde                                      0     2007 est.
195    Central African Republic                        0     2007 est.
196    Costa Rica                                      0     2007 est.
197    Comoros                                         0     2007 est.
198    Cayman Islands                                  0     2007 est.
199    Congo, Democratic Republic of the                0    2007 est.
200    Sri Lanka                                       0     2007 est.
201    Chad                                            0     2007 est.
202    Cambodia                                        0     2007 est.
203    Burundi                                         0     2007 est.
204    Bulgaria                                        0     2007 est.
205    Solomon Islands                                 0     2007 est.
206    Bosnia and Herzegovina                          0     2007 est.
207    Bahamas, The                                    0     2007 est.
208    Bermuda                                         0     2007 est.
209    Armenia                                         0     2007 est.
210    American Samoa                                  0     2007 est.
211    Antigua and Barbuda                             0     2007 est.

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2181

Rank   Country                           Natural gas - consumption(cu m)  Date of Information

1      World                               3,198,000,000,000  2007 est.
2      United States                        652,900,000,000  2007 est.
3      Russia                               610,000,000,000  2007 est.
4      European Union                       500,100,000,000  2007 est.
5      Iran                                 111,800,000,000  2007 est.
6      Japan                                100,300,000,000  2007 est.
7      Germany                               97,440,000,000  2007 est.
8      Canada                                92,900,000,000  2007 est.
9      United Kingdom                        91,100,000,000  2007 est.
10     Ukraine                               84,900,000,000  2007 est.
11     Italy                                 84,890,000,000  2007 est.
12     Saudi Arabia                          75,900,000,000  2007 est.
13     China                                 70,510,000,000  2007 est.
14     Mexico                                68,290,000,000  2007 est.
15     Uzbekistan                            51,180,000,000  2007 est.
16     Netherlands                           46,420,000,000  2007 est.
17     Argentina                             44,100,000,000  2007 est.
18     United Arab Emirates                  43,110,000,000  2006 est.
19     France                                42,690,000,000  2007 est.
20     India                                 41,700,000,000  2007 est.
21     Turkey                                36,600,000,000  2007 est.
22     Thailand                              35,300,000,000  2007 est.
23     Korea, South                          34,830,000,000  2007 est.
24     Spain                                 34,430,000,000  2007 est.
25     Malaysia                              32,900,000,000  2007 est.
26     Egypt                                 31,800,000,000  2007 est.
27     Pakistan                              30,800,000,000  2007 est.
28     Kazakhstan                            30,580,000,000  2007 est.
29     Australia                             29,400,000,000  2007 est.
30     Venezuela                             26,500,000,000  2007 est.
31     Algeria                               26,300,000,000  2007 est.
32     Indonesia                             23,400,000,000  2007 est.
33     Belarus                               21,760,000,000  2007 est.
34     Trinidad and Tobago                   20,800,000,000  2007 est.
35     Qatar                                 20,500,000,000  2007 est.
36     Brazil                                19,800,000,000  2007 est.
37     Turkmenistan                          19,480,000,000  2007 est.
38     Belgium                               17,390,000,000  2007 est.
39     Romania                               17,090,000,000  2007
40     Poland                                16,380,000,000  2007 est.
41     Bangladesh                            15,700,000,000  2007 est.
42     Hungary                               13,360,000,000  2007 est.
43     Nigeria                               12,900,000,000  2007 est.
44     Kuwait                                12,500,000,000  2006 est.
45     Bahrain                               11,330,000,000  2006 est.
46     Taiwan                                11,300,000,000  2007 est.
47     Oman                                  11,000,000,000  2007 est.
48     Azerbaijan                             9,770,000,000  2007 est.
49     Czech Republic                         8,622,000,000  2007 est.
50     Austria                                8,436,000,000  2007 est.
51     Colombia                               7,220,000,000  2006 est.
52     Vietnam                                6,860,000,000  2007 est.
53     Norway                                 6,500,000,000  2007 est.
54     Singapore                              6,500,000,000  2007 est.
55     Libya                                  6,390,000,000  2006 est.
56     Slovakia                               6,216,000,000  2007 est.
57     Bulgaria                               5,600,000,000  2006 est.
58     Ireland                                4,984,000,000  2007 est.
59     Finland                                4,581,000,000  2007 est.
60     New Zealand                            4,572,000,000  2007 est.
61     Denmark                                4,555,000,000  2007 est.
62     Syria                                  4,400,000,000  2007 est.
63     Chile                                  4,200,000,000  2007 est.
64     Portugal                               4,112,000,000  2007 est.
65     Greece                                 4,069,000,000  2007 est.
66     Brunei                                 3,990,000,000  2006 est.
67     Tunisia                                3,850,000,000  2006 est.
68     Burma                                  3,620,000,000  2006 est.
69     Lithuania                              3,440,000,000  2007 est.
70     Switzerland                            3,232,000,000  2007 est.
71     South Africa                           3,100,000,000  2006 est.
72     Bolivia                                3,000,000,000  2007 est.
73     Croatia                                2,730,000,000  2006 est.
74     Hong Kong                              2,690,000,000  2007 est.
75     Serbia                                 2,550,000,000  2005 est.
76     Moldova                                2,440,000,000  2007 est.
77     Jordan                                 2,250,000,000  2006 est.
78     Philippines                            2,200,000,000  2006 est.
79     Armenia                                2,050,000,000  2007 est.
80     Latvia                                 2,040,000,000  2007 est.
81     Iraq                                   1,800,000,000  2006 est.
82     Peru                                   1,780,000,000  2006 est.
83     Georgia                                1,490,000,000  2007 est.
84     Estonia                                1,480,000,000  2007 est.
85     Mozambique                             1,450,000,000  2006 est.
86     Luxembourg                             1,329,000,000  2007 est.
87     Equatorial Guinea                      1,300,000,000  2006 est.
88     Cote d'Ivoire                          1,300,000,000  2006 est.
89     Slovenia                               1,105,000,000  2006 est.
90     Cuba                                   1,058,000,000  2006
91     Sweden                                 1,006,000,000  2007 est.
92     Israel                                  970,000,000   2006 est.
93     Tajikistan                              842,000,000   2007 est.
94     Kyrgyzstan                              768,000,000   2007 est.
95     Puerto Rico                             736,200,000   2007 est.
96     Angola                                  680,000,000   2006 est.
97     Bosnia and Herzegovina                  400,000,000   2006 est.
98     Ecuador                                 280,000,000   2006 est.
99     Dominican Republic                      250,000,000   2006 est.
100    Congo, Republic of the                  180,000,000   2006 est.
101    Tanzania                                146,000,000   2006 est.
102    Papua New Guinea                        140,000,000   2006 est.
103    Uruguay                                 102,800,000   2007 est.
104    Gabon                                   100,000,000   2006 est.
105    Macedonia                               100,000,000   2006 est.
106    Morocco                                  60,000,000   2006 est.
107    Senegal                                  50,000,000   2006 est.
108    Albania                                  30,000,000   2006 est.
109    Barbados                                 29,170,000   2006 est.
110    Afghanistan                              20,000,000   2006 est.
111    Cameroon                                 20,000,000   2006 est.
112    Aruba                                           0     2007 est.
113    Bahamas, The                                    0     2007 est.
114    Solomon Islands                                 0     2007 est.
115    Burundi                                         0     2007 est.
116    Zimbabwe                                        0     2007 est.
117    Zambia                                          0     2007 est.
118    Yemen                                           0     2007 est.
119    Swaziland                                       0     2007 est.
120    Samoa                                           0     2007 est.
121    Western Sahara                                  0     2007 est.
122    Namibia                                         0     2007 est.
123    Virgin Islands                                  0     2007 est.
124    British Virgin Islands                          0     2007 est.
125    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines                0     2007 est.
126    Burkina Faso                                    0     2007 est.
127    Uganda                                          0     2007 est.
128    Timor-Leste                                     0     2007 est.
129    Sao Tome and Principe                           0     2007 est.
130    Togo                                            0     2007 est.
131    Tonga                                           0     2007 est.
132    Turks and Caicos Islands                        0     2007 est.
133    Sudan                                           0     2007 est.
134    Saint Lucia                                     0     2007 est.
135    Somalia                                         0     2007 est.
136    Sierra Leone                                    0     2007 est.
137    Saint Helena                                    0     2007 est.
138    Guinea-Bissau                                   0     2007 est.
139    Panama                                          0     2007 est.
140    Paraguay                                        0     2007 est.
141    Nicaragua                                       0     2007 est.
142    Netherlands Antilles                            0     2007 est.
143    Suriname                                        0     2007 est.
144    Nauru                                           0     2007 est.
145    Nepal                                           0     2007 est.
146    Maldives                                        0     2007 est.
147    Seychelles                                      0     2007 est.
148    Saint Kitts and Nevis                           0     2007 est.
149    Saint Pierre and Miquelon                       0     2007 est.
150    Rwanda                                          0     2007 est.
151    Malta                                           0     2007 est.
152    Mauritania                                      0     2007 est.
153    Mauritius                                       0     2007 est.
154    Mali                                            0     2007 est.
155    Malawi                                          0     2007 est.
156    Montserrat                                      0     2007 est.
157    Mongolia                                        0     2007 est.
158    Macau                                           0     2007 est.
159    Vanuatu                                         0     2007 est.
160    Niger                                           0     2007 est.
161    Niue                                            0     2007 est.
162    New Caledonia                                   0     2007 est.
163    Kenya                                           0     2007 est.
164    Jamaica                                         0     2007 est.
165    Iceland                                         0     2007 est.
166    Honduras                                        0     2007 est.
167    Haiti                                           0     2007 est.
168    Guyana                                          0     2007 est.
169    Guinea                                          0     2007 est.
170    Guatemala                                       0     2007 est.
171    Guam                                            0     2007 est.
172    Ethiopia                                        0     2007 est.
173    El Salvador                                     0     2007 est.
174    Eritrea                                         0     2007 est.
175    Dominica                                        0     2007 est.
176    Djibouti                                        0     2007 est.
177    Cook Islands                                    0     2007 est.
178    Cape Verde                                      0     2007 est.
179    Central African Republic                        0     2007 est.
180    Costa Rica                                      0     2007 est.
181    Comoros                                         0     2007 est.
182    Cayman Islands                                  0     2007 est.
183    Congo, Democratic Republic of the                0    2007 est.
184    Sri Lanka                                       0     2007 est.
185    Chad                                            0     2007 est.
186    Cambodia                                        0     2007 est.
187    Madagascar                                      0     2007 est.
188    Lesotho                                         0     2007 est.
189    Liberia                                         0     2007 est.
190    Lebanon                                         0     2007 est.
191    Laos                                            0     2007 est.
192    Kosovo                                          0     2007
193    Kiribati                                        0     2007 est.
194    Korea, North                                    0     2007 est.
195    Greenland                                       0     2007 est.
196    Grenada                                         0     2007 est.
197    Gibraltar                                       0     2007 est.
198    Ghana                                           0     2007 est.
199    Gambia, The                                     0     2007 est.
200    French Polynesia                                0     2007 est.
201    Faroe Islands                                   0     2007 est.
202    Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)                0    2007 est.
203    Fiji                                            0     2007 est.
204    Bhutan                                          0     2007 est.
205    Benin                                           0     2007 est.
206    Belize                                          0     2007 est.
207    Bermuda                                         0     2007 est.
208    American Samoa                                  0     2007 est.
209    Botswana                                        0     2007 est.
210    Antigua and Barbuda                             0     2007 est.

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2182

Rank   Country                           Natural gas - imports(cu m)  Date of Information

1      World                                957,600,000,000  2007
2      European Union                       361,200,000,000  2005 est.
3      United States                        130,300,000,000  2007 est.
4      Japan                                 95,620,000,000  2007 est.
5      Germany                               88,350,000,000  2007 est.
6      Italy                                 73,950,000,000  2007 est.
7      Ukraine                               65,400,000,000  2007 est.
8      Russia                                58,300,000,000  2007 est.
9      France                                42,900,000,000  2007 est.
10     Turkey                                35,830,000,000  2007 est.
11     Spain                                 34,470,000,000  2007 est.
12     Korea, South                          33,380,000,000  2007 est.
13     United Kingdom                        29,200,000,000  2007 est.
14     Netherlands                           25,730,000,000  2007 est.
15     Belarus                               21,600,000,000  2007 est.
16     Belgium                               17,340,000,000  2007 est.
17     Canada                                13,200,000,000  2007 est.
18     Mexico                                11,690,000,000  2007 est.
19     Taiwan                                10,900,000,000  2007 est.
20     Kazakhstan                            10,800,000,000  2007 est.
21     Hungary                               10,450,000,000  2007 est.
22     Poland                                10,120,000,000  2007 est.
23     Brazil                                10,000,000,000  2007 est.
24     India                                 10,000,000,000  2007 est.
25     Thailand                               9,800,000,000  2007 est.
26     Austria                                9,658,000,000  2007 est.
27     Czech Republic                         8,628,000,000  2007 est.
28     Singapore                              6,500,000,000  2007 est.
29     Slovakia                               6,268,000,000  2007 est.
30     Iran                                   6,100,000,000  2007 est.
31     Australia                              5,689,000,000  2007 est.
32     Bulgaria                               5,179,000,000  2005
33     Romania                                4,800,000,000  2007 est.
34     Finland                                4,576,000,000  2007 est.
35     Ireland                                4,552,000,000  2007 est.
36     Greece                                 4,100,000,000  2007 est.
37     Portugal                               4,095,000,000  2007 est.
38     China                                  3,920,000,000  2007 est.
39     Lithuania                              3,440,000,000  2007 est.
40     Switzerland                            3,232,000,000  2007 est.
41     Hong Kong                              2,690,000,000  2007 est.
42     Moldova                                2,440,000,000  2007 est.
43     Chile                                  2,400,000,000  2007 est.
44     Jordan                                 2,400,000,000  2007 est.
45     Serbia                                 2,100,000,000  2004 est.
46     Armenia                                2,050,000,000  2007 est.
47     Latvia                                 2,040,000,000  2007 est.
48     Argentina                              1,900,000,000  2007 est.
49     Estonia                                1,480,000,000  2007 est.
50     Georgia                                1,480,000,000  2007 est.
51     United Arab Emirates                   1,343,000,000  2005
52     Luxembourg                             1,329,000,000  2007 est.
53     Croatia                                1,103,000,000  2005
54     Slovenia                               1,073,000,000  2005
55     Sweden                                 1,006,000,000  2007 est.
56     Tajikistan                              810,000,000   2007 est.
57     Kyrgyzstan                              750,000,000   2007 est.
58     Puerto Rico                             736,200,000   2007 est.
59     Dominican Republic                      239,800,000   2005
60     Uruguay                                 116,900,000   2007
61     Macedonia                               102,800,000   2007
62     Aruba                                           0     2007 est.
63     Afghanistan                                     0     2007 est.
64     Bahrain                                         0     2007 est.
65     Botswana                                        0     2007 est.
66     Solomon Islands                                 0     2007 est.
67     Benin                                           0     2007 est.
68     Burma                                           0     2007 est.
69     Bolivia                                         0     2007 est.
70     Bosnia and Herzegovina                          0     2005
71     Belize                                          0     2007 est.
72     Bangladesh                                      0     2007 est.
73     Bahamas, The                                    0     2007 est.
74     Bermuda                                         0     2007 est.
75     Faroe Islands                                   0     2007 est.
76     Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)                0    2007 est.
77     Fiji                                            0     2007 est.
78     Ethiopia                                        0     2007 est.
79     El Salvador                                     0     2007 est.
80     Eritrea                                         0     2007 est.
81     Equatorial Guinea                               0     2007 est.
82     Egypt                                           0     2007 est.
83     Denmark                                         0     2007 est.
84     Lebanon                                         0     2007 est.
85     Laos                                            0     2007 est.
86     Kuwait                                          0     2007 est.
87     Kiribati                                        0     2007 est.
88     Korea, North                                    0     2007 est.
89     Kenya                                           0     2007 est.
90     Jamaica                                         0     2007 est.
91     Iraq                                            0     2007 est.
92     Cote d'Ivoire                                   0     2007 est.
93     Mozambique                                      0     2007 est.
94     Malaysia                                        0     2007 est.
95     Maldives                                        0     2007 est.
96     Oman                                            0     2007 est.
97     Malta                                           0     2007 est.
98     Mauritania                                      0     2007 est.
99     Mauritius                                       0     2007 est.
100    Morocco                                         0     2007 est.
101    Mali                                            0     2007 est.
102    Zimbabwe                                        0     2007 est.
103    Zambia                                          0     2007 est.
104    Yemen                                           0     2007 est.
105    Swaziland                                       0     2007 est.
106    Samoa                                           0     2007 est.
107    Western Sahara                                  0     2007 est.
108    Namibia                                         0     2007 est.
109    Virgin Islands                                  0     2007 est.
110    Vietnam                                         0     2007 est.
111    British Virgin Islands                          0     2007 est.
112    Venezuela                                       0     2007 est.
113    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines                0     2007 est.
114    Uzbekistan                                      0     2007 est.
115    Burkina Faso                                    0     2007 est.
116    Uganda                                          0     2007 est.
117    Tanzania                                        0     2007 est.
118    Turkmenistan                                    0     2007 est.
119    Timor-Leste                                     0     2007 est.
120    Tunisia                                         0     2005
121    Sao Tome and Principe                           0     2007 est.
122    Togo                                            0     2007 est.
123    Tonga                                           0     2007 est.
124    Turks and Caicos Islands                        0     2007 est.
125    Trinidad and Tobago                             0     2007 est.
126    Syria                                           0     2007 est.
127    Sudan                                           0     2007 est.
128    Saint Lucia                                     0     2007 est.
129    Somalia                                         0     2007 est.
130    Sierra Leone                                    0     2007 est.
131    Saint Helena                                    0     2007 est.
132    South Africa                                    0     2005
133    Seychelles                                      0     2007 est.
134    Saint Kitts and Nevis                           0     2007 est.
135    Saint Pierre and Miquelon                       0     2007 est.
136    Saudi Arabia                                    0     2007 est.
137    Rwanda                                          0     2007 est.
138    Philippines                                     0     2007 est.
139    Qatar                                           0     2007 est.
140    Guinea-Bissau                                   0     2007 est.
141    Papua New Guinea                                0     2007 est.
142    Panama                                          0     2007 est.
143    Pakistan                                        0     2007 est.
144    Peru                                            0     2007 est.
145    Paraguay                                        0     2007 est.
146    New Zealand                                     0     2007 est.
147    Nicaragua                                       0     2007 est.
148    Netherlands Antilles                            0     2007 est.
149    Suriname                                        0     2007 est.
150    Nauru                                           0     2007 est.
151    Nepal                                           0     2007 est.
152    Norway                                          0     2007 est.
153    Nigeria                                         0     2007 est.
154    Vanuatu                                         0     2007 est.
155    Niger                                           0     2007 est.
156    Niue                                            0     2007 est.
157    New Caledonia                                   0     2007 est.
158    Malawi                                          0     2007 est.
159    Montserrat                                      0     2007 est.
160    Mongolia                                        0     2007 est.
161    Macau                                           0     2007 est.
162    Madagascar                                      0     2007 est.
163    Libya                                           0     2007 est.
164    Lesotho                                         0     2007 est.
165    Liberia                                         0     2007 est.
166    Israel                                          0     2007 est.
167    Indonesia                                       0     2007 est.
168    Iceland                                         0     2007 est.
169    Honduras                                        0     2007 est.
170    Haiti                                           0     2007 est.
171    Guyana                                          0     2007 est.
172    Guinea                                          0     2007 est.
173    Guatemala                                       0     2007 est.
174    Guam                                            0     2007 est.
175    Greenland                                       0     2007 est.
176    Grenada                                         0     2007 est.
177    Gibraltar                                       0     2007 est.
178    Ghana                                           0     2007 est.
179    Gabon                                           0     2007 est.
180    Gambia, The                                     0     2007 est.
181    French Polynesia                                0     2007 est.
182    Cook Islands                                    0     2007 est.
183    Cape Verde                                      0     2007 est.
184    Cuba                                            0     2007 est.
185    Central African Republic                        0     2007 est.
186    Costa Rica                                      0     2007 est.
187    Colombia                                        0     2007 est.
188    Comoros                                         0     2007 est.
189    Cameroon                                        0     2007 est.
190    Ecuador                                         0     2007 est.
191    Dominica                                        0     2007 est.
192    Djibouti                                        0     2007 est.
193    Cayman Islands                                  0     2007 est.
194    Congo, Democratic Republic of the                0    2007 est.
195    Congo, Republic of the                          0     2007 est.
196    Chad                                            0     2007 est.
197    Cambodia                                        0     2007 est.
198    Burundi                                         0     2007 est.
199    Brunei                                          0     2007 est.
200    Bhutan                                          0     2007 est.
201    Barbados                                        0     2007 est.
202    Azerbaijan                                      0     2005
203    American Samoa                                  0     2007 est.
204    Angola                                          0     2007 est.
205    Albania                                         0     2007 est.
206    Algeria                                         0     2007 est.
207    Antigua and Barbuda                             0     2007 est.

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2183

Rank   Country                           Natural gas - exports(cu m)  Date of Information

1      World                                929,900,000,000  2007 est.
2      Russia                               237,200,000,000  2007 est.
3      Canada                               107,300,000,000  2007 est.
4      Norway                                86,100,000,000  2007 est.
5      European Union                        76,480,000,000  2005 est.
6      Algeria                               59,400,000,000  2007 est.
7      Netherlands                           55,660,000,000  2007 est.
8      Turkmenistan                          49,400,000,000  2007 est.
9      Qatar                                 39,300,000,000  2007 est.
10     Indonesia                             32,600,000,000  2007 est.
11     Malaysia                              31,600,000,000  2007 est.
12     United States                         23,280,000,000  2007 est.
13     Nigeria                               21,200,000,000  2007 est.
14     Australia                             19,910,000,000  2007 est.
15     Trinidad and Tobago                   18,100,000,000  2007 est.
16     Egypt                                 15,700,000,000  2007 est.
17     Uzbekistan                            14,010,000,000  2007 est.
18     Oman                                  13,100,000,000  2007 est.
19     Germany                               12,220,000,000  2007 est.
20     Bolivia                               11,700,000,000  2007 est.
21     United Kingdom                        10,400,000,000  2007 est.
22     Burma                                  9,900,000,000  2007 est.
23     Libya                                  9,900,000,000  2007 est.
24     Brunei                                 9,400,000,000  2007 est.
25     Kazakhstan                             8,100,000,000  2007 est.
26     United Arab Emirates                   6,848,000,000  2005 est.
27     Iran                                   6,200,000,000  2007 est.
28     Denmark                                4,517,000,000  2007 est.
29     Ukraine                                4,000,000,000  2006 est.
30     Mexico                                 2,973,000,000  2007 est.
31     Austria                                2,767,000,000  2007 est.
32     China                                  2,690,000,000  2007 est.
33     Argentina                              2,600,000,000  2007 est.
34     France                                  966,000,000   2007 est.
35     Czech Republic                          402,000,000   2007 est.
36     Slovakia                                180,000,000   2007 est.
37     Hungary                                 138,000,000   2007 est.
38     Italy                                    68,000,000   2007 est.
39     Poland                                   45,000,000   2007 est.
40     Turkey                                   31,000,000   2007 est.
41     Aruba                                           0     2007 est.
42     Azerbaijan                                      0     2007 est.
43     Bahrain                                         0     2007 est.
44     Botswana                                        0     2007 est.
45     Solomon Islands                                 0     2007 est.
46     Belarus                                         0     2007 est.
47     Benin                                           0     2007 est.
48     Bosnia and Herzegovina                          0     2007 est.
49     Belize                                          0     2007 est.
50     Bangladesh                                      0     2007 est.
51     Bahamas, The                                    0     2007 est.
52     Belgium                                         0     2007 est.
53     Bermuda                                         0     2007 est.
54     Cuba                                            0     2007 est.
55     Central African Republic                        0     2007 est.
56     Costa Rica                                      0     2007 est.
57     Colombia                                        0     2007 est.
58     Comoros                                         0     2007 est.
59     Cameroon                                        0     2007 est.
60     Cayman Islands                                  0     2007 est.
61     Chile                                           0     2007 est.
62     Congo, Democratic Republic of the                0    2007 est.
63     Greenland                                       0     2007 est.
64     Grenada                                         0     2007 est.
65     Gibraltar                                       0     2007 est.
66     Ghana                                           0     2007 est.
67     Georgia                                         0     2007 est.
68     Gabon                                           0     2007 est.
69     Gambia, The                                     0     2007 est.
70     French Polynesia                                0     2007 est.
71     Faroe Islands                                   0     2007 est.
72     Jordan                                          0     2007 est.
73     Jamaica                                         0     2007 est.
74     Japan                                           0     2007 est.
75     Iraq                                            0     2007 est.
76     Cote d'Ivoire                                   0     2007 est.
77     Israel                                          0     2007 est.
78     India                                           0     2007 est.
79     Iceland                                         0     2007 est.
80     Croatia                                         0     2007 est.
81     Mongolia                                        0     2007 est.
82     Moldova                                         0     2007 est.
83     Macau                                           0     2007 est.
84     Madagascar                                      0     2007 est.
85     Luxembourg                                      0     2007 est.
86     Lesotho                                         0     2007 est.
87     Liberia                                         0     2007 est.
88     Lithuania                                       0     2007 est.
89     Latvia                                          0     2007 est.
90     Zimbabwe                                        0     2007 est.
91     Zambia                                          0     2007 est.
92     Yemen                                           0     2007 est.
93     Swaziland                                       0     2007 est.
94     Samoa                                           0     2007 est.
95     Western Sahara                                  0     2007 est.
96     Namibia                                         0     2007 est.
97     Virgin Islands                                  0     2007 est.
98     Vietnam                                         0     2007 est.
99     British Virgin Islands                          0     2007 est.
100    Venezuela                                       0     2007 est.
101    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines                0     2007 est.
102    Uruguay                                         0     2007 est.
103    Burkina Faso                                    0     2007 est.
104    Uganda                                          0     2007 est.
105    Tanzania                                        0     2007 est.
106    Taiwan                                          0     2007 est.
107    Timor-Leste                                     0     2007 est.
108    Tunisia                                         0     2007 est.
109    Sao Tome and Principe                           0     2007 est.
110    Togo                                            0     2007 est.
111    Tonga                                           0     2007 est.
112    Turks and Caicos Islands                        0     2007 est.
113    Tajikistan                                      0     2007 est.
114    Thailand                                        0     2007 est.
115    Switzerland                                     0     2007 est.
116    Sweden                                          0     2007 est.
117    Sudan                                           0     2007 est.
118    Saint Lucia                                     0     2007 est.
119    Spain                                           0     2007 est.
120    Somalia                                         0     2007 est.
121    Singapore                                       0     2007 est.
122    Sierra Leone                                    0     2007 est.
123    Slovenia                                        0     2007 est.
124    Saint Helena                                    0     2007 est.
125    South Africa                                    0     2007 est.
126    Seychelles                                      0     2007 est.
127    Saint Kitts and Nevis                           0     2007 est.
128    Saint Pierre and Miquelon                       0     2007 est.
129    Saudi Arabia                                    0     2007 est.
130    Rwanda                                          0     2007 est.
131    Puerto Rico                                     0     2007 est.
132    Philippines                                     0     2007 est.
133    Romania                                         0     2007 est.
134    Serbia                                          0     2005 est.
135    Guinea-Bissau                                   0     2007 est.
136    Papua New Guinea                                0     2007 est.
137    Portugal                                        0     2007 est.
138    Panama                                          0     2007 est.
139    Pakistan                                        0     2007 est.
140    Peru                                            0     2007 est.
141    Paraguay                                        0     2007 est.
142    New Zealand                                     0     2007 est.
143    Nicaragua                                       0     2007 est.
144    Netherlands Antilles                            0     2007 est.
145    Suriname                                        0     2007 est.
146    Nauru                                           0     2007 est.
147    Nepal                                           0     2007 est.
148    Vanuatu                                         0     2007 est.
149    Niger                                           0     2007 est.
150    Niue                                            0     2007 est.
151    New Caledonia                                   0     2007 est.
152    Mozambique                                      0     2005 est.
153    Maldives                                        0     2007 est.
154    Malta                                           0     2007 est.
155    Mauritania                                      0     2007 est.
156    Mauritius                                       0     2007 est.
157    Morocco                                         0     2007 est.
158    Mali                                            0     2007 est.
159    Macedonia                                       0     2007 est.
160    Malawi                                          0     2007 est.
161    Montserrat                                      0     2007 est.
162    Lebanon                                         0     2007 est.
163    Laos                                            0     2007 est.
164    Kuwait                                          0     2007 est.
165    Korea, South                                    0     2007 est.
166    Kiribati                                        0     2007 est.
167    Korea, North                                    0     2007 est.
168    Kyrgyzstan                                      0     2007 est.
169    Kenya                                           0     2007 est.
170    Honduras                                        0     2007 est.
171    Hong Kong                                       0     2007 est.
172    Haiti                                           0     2007 est.
173    Guyana                                          0     2007 est.
174    Guinea                                          0     2007 est.
175    Guatemala                                       0     2007 est.
176    Greece                                          0     2007 est.
177    Guam                                            0     2007 est.
178    Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)                0    2007 est.
179    Fiji                                            0     2007 est.
180    Finland                                         0     2007 est.
181    Ethiopia                                        0     2007 est.
182    El Salvador                                     0     2007 est.
183    Eritrea                                         0     2007 est.
184    Estonia                                         0     2007 est.
185    Equatorial Guinea                               0     2007 est.
186    Ireland                                         0     2007 est.
187    Ecuador                                         0     2007 est.
188    Dominican Republic                              0     2007 est.
189    Dominica                                        0     2007 est.
190    Djibouti                                        0     2007 est.
191    Cyprus                                          0     2007 est.
192    Cook Islands                                    0     2007 est.
193    Cape Verde                                      0     2007 est.
194    Congo, Republic of the                          0     2007 est.
195    Sri Lanka                                       0     2007 est.
196    Chad                                            0     2007 est.
197    Cambodia                                        0     2007 est.
198    Burundi                                         0     2007 est.
199    Bulgaria                                        0     2007 est.
200    Bhutan                                          0     2007 est.
201    Brazil                                          0     2007 est.
202    Barbados                                        0     2007 est.
203    Armenia                                         0     2007 est.
204    American Samoa                                  0     2007 est.
205    Angola                                          0     2007 est.
206    Albania                                         0     2007 est.
207    Afghanistan                                     0     2007 est.
208    Antigua and Barbuda                             0     2007 est.

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2184

Rank   Country                           Internet hosts      Date of Information

1      United States                           316,000,000
2      Japan                                    39,909,000   2008
3      Germany                                  22,606,000   2008
4      Italy                                    17,702,000   2008
5      China                                    14,306,000   2008
6      France                                   14,256,000   2008
7      Australia                                11,134,000   2008
8      Netherlands                              10,983,000   2008
9      Mexico                                   10,653,000   2008
10     Brazil                                    9,573,000   2008
11     United Kingdom                            8,269,000   2008
12     Poland                                    7,808,000   2008
13     Taiwan                                    5,225,000   2008
14     Canada                                    5,119,000   2008
15     Russia                                    4,822,000   2008
16     Finland                                   3,877,000   2008
17     Belgium                                   3,841,000   2008
18     Argentina                                 3,813,000   2008
19     Denmark                                   3,642,000   2008
20     Sweden                                    3,579,000   2008
21     Switzerland                               3,437,000   2008
22     Spain                                     3,264,000   2008
23     Norway                                    2,995,000   2008
24     Austria                                   2,806,000   2008
25     India                                     2,707,000   2008
26     Turkey                                    2,667,000   2008
27     Czech Republic                            2,434,000   2008
28     Romania                                   2,195,000   2008
29     Hungary                                   1,879,000   2008
30     Portugal                                  1,858,000   2008
31     New Zealand                               1,720,000   2008
32     Greece                                    1,626,000   2008
33     Colombia                                  1,554,000   2008
34     Israel                                    1,415,000   2008
35     South Africa                              1,297,000   2008
36     Ireland                                   1,242,000   2008
37     Thailand                                  1,116,000   2008
38     Croatia                                   1,111,000   2008
39     Chile                                      847,215    2008
40     Singapore                                  837,559    2008
41     Hong Kong                                  817,766    2008
42     Lithuania                                  812,083    2008
43     Indonesia                                  753,200    2008
44     Slovakia                                   717,744    2008
45     Estonia                                    645,495    2008
46     Ukraine                                    524,202    2008
47     Bulgaria                                   513,470    2008
48     Uruguay                                    480,593    2008
49     Niue                                       382,599    2008
50     United Arab Emirates                       381,915    2008
51     Malaysia                                   377,716    2008
52     Korea, South                               333,823    2008
53     Philippines                                283,579    2008
54     Morocco                                    275,889    2008
55     Peru                                       271,745    2008
56     Iceland                                    263,980    2008
57     Moldova                                    223,869    2008
58     Latvia                                     220,082    2008
59     Pakistan                                   197,264    2008
60     Luxembourg                                 180,756    2008
61     Egypt                                      175,342    2008
62     Trinidad and Tobago                        155,722    2008
63     Venezuela                                  145,394    2008
64     Cyprus                                     143,099    2008
65     Saudi Arabia                               141,232    2008
66     Guatemala                                  124,095    2008
67     Dominican Republic                         105,546    2008
68     Vietnam                                     84,151    2008
69     Slovenia                                    75,984    2008
70     Bolivia                                     68,428    2008
71     Belarus                                     68,118    2008
72     Nicaragua                                   58,157    2008
73     Kyrgyzstan                                  56,905    2008
74     Tuvalu                                      56,209    2008
75     Bosnia and Herzegovina                      56,032    2008
76     Netherlands Antilles                        47,597    2008
77     Ecuador                                     45,404    2008
78     Nepal                                       42,219    2008
79     Uzbekistan                                  38,183    2008
80     Macedonia                                   36,905    2008
81     Lebanon                                     36,681    2008
82     Kazakhstan                                  36,417    2008
83     European Union                              31,693
84     Georgia                                     27,905    2008
85     Kenya                                       27,376    2008
86     Malta                                       26,494    2008
87     Armenia                                     26,081    2008
88     Tanzania                                    24,271    2008
89     Ghana                                       24,018    2008
90     Andorra                                     23,368    2008
91     Mozambique                                  22,532    2008
92     Jordan                                      21,150    2008
93     Monaco                                      21,058    2008
94     Paraguay                                    19,691    2008
95     Tonga                                       19,231    2008
96     Zimbabwe                                    19,157    2008
97     Aruba                                       17,661    2008
98     Costa Rica                                  16,440    2008
99     New Caledonia                               15,487    2008
100    Brunei                                      14,950    2008
101    Greenland                                   14,132    2008
102    French Polynesia                            14,070    2008
103    Honduras                                    13,370    2008
104    Fiji                                        12,592    2008
105    El Salvador                                 11,434    2008
106    Samoa                                       11,307    2008
107    Madagascar                                  11,016    2008
108    Albania                                     10,162    2008
109    Mauritius                                    9,609    2008
110    Bhutan                                       9,046    2008
111    Faroe Islands                                8,516    2008
112    Panama                                       7,858    2008
113    Syria                                        7,857    2008
114    Antarctica                                   7,748    2008
115    Liechtenstein                                7,639    2008
116    Zambia                                       7,610    2008
117    Azerbaijan                                   6,995    2008
118    San Marino                                   6,665    2008
119    Botswana                                     6,374    2008
120    Namibia                                      6,296    2008
121    Guyana                                       6,218    2008
122    Cote d'Ivoire                                5,569    2008
123    Sri Lanka                                    4,940    2008
124    Oman                                         4,785    2008
125    Cayman Islands                               4,648    2008
126    Virgin Islands                               4,610    2008
127    Solomon Islands                              3,804    2008
128    Cuba                                         3,664    2008
129    Angola                                       3,562    2008
130    Papua New Guinea                             3,422    2008
131    Kuwait                                       3,289    2008
132    Congo, Democratic Republic of the             3,211   2008
133    Iran                                         2,860    2008
134    Belize                                       2,751    2008
135    Bahrain                                      2,621    2008
136    Swaziland                                    2,582    2008
137    Rwanda                                       2,363    2008
138    Turks and Caicos Islands                     2,352    2008
139    Cook Islands                                 2,234    2008
140    Antigua and Barbuda                          2,215    2008
141    American Samoa                               1,923    2008
142    Gibraltar                                    1,904    2008
143    Christmas Island                             1,821    2008
144    Bermuda                                      1,628    2008
145    Maldives                                     1,600    2008
146    Bangladesh                                   1,440    2008
147    Sao Tome and Principe                        1,355    2008
148    Jamaica                                      1,292    2008
149    Cambodia                                     1,230    2008
150    Tajikistan                                   1,158    2008
151    Uganda                                       1,090    2008
152    Eritrea                                      1,074    2008
153    Nigeria                                      1,048    2008
154    Laos                                         1,015    2008
155    Vanuatu                                       990     2008
156    Micronesia, Federated States of               866     2008
157    Benin                                         848     2008
158    Togo                                          769     2008
159    Turkmenistan                                  640     2008
160    Qatar                                         563     2008
161    Algeria                                       477     2008
162    British Virgin Islands                        465     2008
163    Isle of Man                                   426     2008
164    Montserrat                                    409     2008
165    Puerto Rico                                   404     2008
166    Mali                                          387     2008
167    Tunisia                                       376     2008
168    Mongolia                                      356     2008
169    Gambia, The                                   320     2008
170    Saint Helena                                  306     2008
171    Timor-Leste                                   285     2008
172    Seychelles                                    284     2008
173    Tokelau                                       273     2008
174    Macau                                         263     2008
175    Senegal                                       217     2008
176    Niger                                         216     2008
177    Anguilla                                      205     2008
178    South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands              196  2008
179    Jersey                                        190     2008
180    Yemen                                         167     2008
181    Burundi                                       162     2008
182    Djibouti                                      161     2008
183    Guernsey                                      156     2008
184    Ethiopia                                      128     2008
185    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines              124     2008
186    Burkina Faso                                  116     2008
187    Burma                                         108     2008
188    Malawi                                        107     2008
189    Barbados                                      104     2008
190    Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)               91    2008
191    British Indian Ocean Territory                 89     2008
192    Gabon                                          88     2008
193    Lesotho                                        83     2008
194    Guinea-Bissau                                  82     2008
195    Cameroon                                       69     2008
196    Holy See (Vatican City)                        55     2008
197    Norfolk Island                                 51     2008
198    Saint Kitts and Nevis                          45     2008
199    Nauru                                          42     2008
200    Bahamas, The                                   41     2008
201    French Southern and Antarctic Lands               38  2008
202    Guam                                           36     2008
203    Mauritania                                     34     2008
204    Suriname                                       33     2008
205    Sudan                                          33     2008
206    Afghanistan                                    31     2008
207    Libya                                          31     2008
208    Dominica                                       29     2008
209    Central African Republic                       21     2008
210    Cape Verde                                     20     2008
211    Saint Lucia                                    17     2008
212    Guinea                                         16     2008
213    Pitcairn Islands                               12     2008
214    Equatorial Guinea                               9     2008
215    Kiribati                                        9     2008
216    Grenada                                         9     2008
217    Comoros                                         8     2008
218    Sierra Leone                                    8     2008
219    Haiti                                           7     2008
220    Liberia                                         7     2008
221    Bouvet Island                                   6     2008
222    Northern Mariana Islands                        6     2008
223    Chad                                            5     2008
224    Congo, Republic of the                          5     2008
225    Iraq                                            3     2008
226    Marshall Islands                                3     2008
227    Mayotte                                         1     2008
228    Wallis and Futuna                               1     2008
229    Somalia                                         1     2008
230    Palau                                           0     2008
231    Saint Pierre and Miquelon                       0     2008

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2185

Rank   Country                           Investment (gross fixed)(% of GDP)  Date of Information

1      Lesotho                               51.90           2007 est.
2      Qatar                                 43.30           2007 est.
3      China                                 42.70           2007 est.
4      Congo, Republic of the                40.40           2007 est.
5      Equatorial Guinea                     37.90           2007 est.
6      Vietnam                               37.10           2007 est.
7      Cape Verde                            37.00           2007 est.
8      Sao Tome and Principe                 36.90           2007 est.
9      Guyana                                34.90           2007 est.
10     Jamaica                               34.20           2007 est.
11     India                                 33.90           2007 est.
12     Armenia                               33.60           2007 est.
13     Moldova                               33.30           2007 est.
14     Latvia                                32.50           2007 est.
15     Turkmenistan                          32.50           2007 est.
16     Estonia                               31.90           2007 est.
17     Nicaragua                             31.80           2007 est.
18     Ghana                                 31.60           2007 est.
19     Spain                                 31.10           2007 est.
20     Belarus                               30.80           2007 est.
21     Montenegro                            30.50           2006 est.
22     Honduras                              30.40           2007 est.
23     Kazakhstan                            30.30           2007 est.
24     Croatia                               30.10           2007 est.
25     Bulgaria                              29.80           2007 est.
26     Morocco                               29.70           2007 est.
27     Georgia                               29.40           2007 est.
28     Kosovo                                29.00           2006 est.
29     Haiti                                 28.90           2006 est.
30     Korea, South                          28.80           2007 est.
31     Slovenia                              28.70           2007 est.
32     Romania                               28.00           2007 est.
33     Jordan                                27.90           2007 est.
34     Iran                                  27.60           2007 est.
35     Iceland                               27.50           2007 est.
36     Ukraine                               27.40           2007 est.
37     Australia                             27.30           2007 est.
38     Thailand                              26.80           2007 est.
39     Lithuania                             26.60           2007 est.
40     Ireland                               26.30           2007 est.
41     Zambia                                26.20           2007 est.
42     Ethiopia                              25.90           2007 est.
43     Madagascar                            25.90           2007 est.
44     Greece                                25.70           2007 est.
45     Slovakia                              25.70           2007 est.
46     Kyrgyzstan                            25.60           2007 est.
47     Gambia, The                           25.40           2007 est.
48     Uganda                                25.40           2007 est.
49     Senegal                               25.20           2007 est.
50     Mauritius                             25.10           2007 est.
51     Yemen                                 25.00           2007 est.
52     Indonesia                             24.90           2007 est.
53     Singapore                             24.90           2007 est.
54     Sri Lanka                             24.70           2007 est.
55     Algeria                               24.50           2007 est.
56     Burundi                               24.40           2007 est.
57     Bangladesh                            24.30           2007 est.
58     Argentina                             24.20           2007 est.
59     Gabon                                 24.20           2007 est.
60     Togo                                  24.20           2007 est.
61     Czech Republic                        24.10           2007 est.
62     Namibia                               23.80           2007 est.
63     Nigeria                               23.70           2007 est.
64     Venezuela                             23.70           2007 est.
65     Tunisia                               23.60           2007 est.
66     Albania                               23.30           2007 est.
67     New Zealand                           23.30           2007 est.
68     Japan                                 23.20           2007 est.
69     Tanzania                              23.20           2007 est.
70     Peru                                  23.00           2007 est.
71     Denmark                               22.90           2007 est.
72     World                                 22.70           2007 est.
73     Canada                                22.60           2007 est.
74     Colombia                              22.50           2007 est.
75     Bahrain                               22.30           2007 est.
76     Lebanon                               22.00           2007 est.
77     Rwanda                                22.00           2007 est.
78     Ecuador                               21.90           2007 est.
79     Malaysia                              21.70           2007 est.
80     Poland                                21.70           2007 est.
81     Portugal                              21.70           2007 est.
82     Costa Rica                            21.60           2007 est.
83     European Union                        21.50           2006 est.
84     Syria                                 21.50           2007 est.
85     Switzerland                           21.50           2007 est.
86     Turkey                                21.50           2007 est.
87     France                                21.50           2007 est.
88     Belgium                               21.30           2007 est.
89     Mozambique                            21.30           2007 est.
90     Pakistan                              21.30           2007 est.
91     Egypt                                 21.20           2007 est.
92     Taiwan                                21.20           2007 est.
93     Burkina Faso                          21.10           2007 est.
94     Italy                                 21.00           2007 est.
95     Russia                                21.00           2007 est.
96     Hungary                               20.90           2007 est.
97     Cyprus                                20.80           2007 est.
98     Mexico                                20.80           2007 est.
99     Norway                                20.80           2007 est.
100    Kenya                                 20.70           2007 est.
101    Austria                               20.60           2007 est.
102    South Africa                          20.60           2007 est.
103    Chile                                 20.60           2007 est.
104    United Arab Emirates                  20.30           2007 est.
105    Hong Kong                             20.30           2007 est.
106    Finland                               20.30           2007 est.
107    Luxembourg                            20.20           2007 est.
108    Panama                                20.20           2007 est.
109    Serbia                                20.10           2007 est.
110    Azerbaijan                            20.00           2007 est.
111    Oman                                  20.00           2007 est.
112    Netherlands                           20.00           2007 est.
113    Saudi Arabia                          20.00           2007 est.
114    Belize                                19.70           2007 est.
115    Kuwait                                19.70           2007 est.
116    Benin                                 19.30           2007 est.
117    Papua New Guinea                      19.30           2007 est.
118    Botswana                              19.20           2007 est.
119    Cambodia                              19.20           2007 est.
120    Eritrea                               19.10           2007 est.
121    Sudan                                 19.00           2007 est.
122    Sweden                                19.00           2007 est.
123    Malta                                 18.90           2007 est.
124    Paraguay                              18.90           2007 est.
125    Dominican Republic                    18.80           2007 est.
126    Swaziland                             18.60           2007 est.
127    Germany                               18.50           2007 est.
128    Israel                                18.50           2007 est.
129    United Kingdom                        18.20           2007 est.
130    Macedonia                             17.70           2007 est.
131    Brazil                                17.60           2007 est.
132    Cameroon                              17.30           2007 est.
133    Guatemala                             17.10           2007 est.
134    Trinidad and Tobago                   16.70           2007 est.
135    Zimbabwe                              16.70           2007 est.
136    Bolivia                               16.10           2007 est.
137    El Salvador                           16.10           2007 est.
138    United States                         15.50           2007 est.
139    Philippines                           14.80           2007 est.
140    Uruguay                               13.90           2007 est.
141    Burma                                 13.10           2007 est.
142    Cuba                                  13.10           2007 est.
143    Tajikistan                            12.40           2007 est.
144    Chad                                  11.40           2007 est.
145    Guinea                                11.30           2007 est.
146    Angola                                 9.10           2007 est.
147    Seychelles                             8.90           2007 est.
148    Cote d'Ivoire                          8.80           2007 est.
149    Libya                                  8.80           2007 est.
150    Malawi                                 8.40           2007 est.

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2186

Rank   Country                           Public debt(% of GDP)  Date of Information

1      Zimbabwe                             218.20           2007 est.
2      Lebanon                              186.60           2007 est.
3      Japan                                170.00           2007 est.
4      Jamaica                              126.50           2007 est.
5      Sudan                                105.90           2007 est.
6      Egypt                                105.80           2007 est.
7      Italy                                104.00           2007 est.
8      Singapore                             96.30           2007 est.
9      Seychelles                            92.30           2007 est.
10     Greece                                89.50           2007 est.
11     Sri Lanka                             85.80           2007 est.
12     Belgium                               84.60           2007 est.
13     Norway                                83.10           2007 est.
14     Bhutan                                81.40           2004
15     Israel                                80.60           2007 est.
16     Cote d'Ivoire                         75.20           2007 est.
17     Jordan                                72.40           2007 est.
18     Morocco                               67.40           2007 est.
19     Hungary                               67.00           2007 est.
20     Germany                               64.90           2007 est.
21     Uruguay                               64.80           2007 est.
22     Canada                                64.20           2007 est.
23     France                                63.90           2007 est.
24     Portugal                              63.60           2007 est.
25     Mauritius                             63.10           2007 est.
26     Nicaragua                             62.90           2007 est.
27     United States                         60.80           2007 est.
28     Cyprus                                59.60           2007 est.
29     Austria                               59.10           2007 est.
30     Ghana                                 58.50           2007 est.
31     India                                 58.20           2007 est.
32     Argentina                             56.10           2007 est.
33     Philippines                           55.80           2007 est.
34     Tunisia                               55.40           2007 est.
35     Panama                                53.00           2007 est.
36     Colombia                              52.80           2007 est.
37     Gabon                                 52.80           2007 est.
38     Albania                               51.40           2007 est.
39     Malawi                                50.60           2007 est.
40     Pakistan                              50.60           2007 est.
41     Kenya                                 48.70           2007 est.
42     Croatia                               47.80           2007 est.
43     Costa Rica                            46.60           2007 est.
44     Aruba                                 46.30           2005
45     Bolivia                               46.30           2007 est.
46     Netherlands                           45.50           2007 est.
47     Brazil                                45.10           2007 est.
48     Ethiopia                              44.50           2007 est.
49     Switzerland                           44.20           2007 est.
50     United Kingdom                        43.60           2007 est.
51     Poland                                43.10           2007 est.
52     Vietnam                               42.00           2007 est.
53     Sweden                                41.70           2007 est.
54     Malaysia                              41.60           2007 est.
55     Dominican Republic                    41.00           2007 est.
56     Papua New Guinea                      40.10           2007 est.
57     Turkey                                38.90           2007 est.
58     Montenegro                            38.00           2006
59     Thailand                              37.90           2007 est.
60     Syria                                 37.70           2007 est.
61     Bangladesh                            37.40           2007 est.
62     El Salvador                           37.30           2007 est.
63     Serbia                                37.00           2007 est.
64     Cuba                                  36.80           2007 est.
65     Spain                                 36.20           2007 est.
66     Finland                               35.90           2007 est.
67     Slovakia                              35.90           2007 est.
68     Bosnia and Herzegovina                34.00           2007 est.
69     Indonesia                             34.00           2007 est.
70     Yemen                                 33.50           2007 est.
71     Ecuador                               33.10           2007 est.
72     South Africa                          31.30           2007 est.
73     Bahrain                               31.20           2007 est.
74     Macedonia                             30.80           2007 est.
75     Peru                                  29.20           2007 est.
76     Korea, South                          28.20           2007 est.
77     Zambia                                28.10           2007 est.
78     Trinidad and Tobago                   27.90           2007 est.
79     Taiwan                                27.90           2007 est.
80     Iceland                               27.60           2007 est.
81     Paraguay                              27.00           2007 est.
82     Denmark                               26.00           2007 est.
83     Czech Republic                        26.00           2007 est.
84     Ireland                               24.90           2007 est.
85     Saudi Arabia                          24.30           2007 est.
86     Honduras                              24.10           2007 est.
87     Slovenia                              23.60           2007 est.
88     Moldova                               23.30           2007 est.
89     Senegal                               22.90           2007 est.
90     Mexico                                22.80           2007 est.
91     Namibia                               22.30           2007 est.
92     Mozambique                            22.20           2007 est.
93     United Arab Emirates                  21.20           2007 est.
94     Guatemala                             20.90           2007 est.
95     New Zealand                           20.70           2007 est.
96     Uganda                                20.60           2007 est.
97     Tanzania                              19.60           2007 est.
98     Venezuela                             19.30           2007 est.
99     Uzbekistan                            18.70           2007 est.
100    China                                 18.40           2007 est.
101    Algeria                               18.00           2007 est.
102    Lithuania                             17.30           2007 est.
103    Iran                                  17.20           2007 est.
104    Gibraltar                             15.70           2005 est.
105    Australia                             15.60           2007 est.
106    Cameroon                              15.50           2007 est.
107    Nigeria                               14.40           2007 est.
108    Romania                               13.00           2007 est.
109    Hong Kong                             12.50           2007 est.
110    Angola                                12.00           2007 est.
111    Ukraine                               11.70           2007 est.
112    Qatar                                 11.00           2007 est.
113    Bulgaria                              10.50           2007 est.
114    Kuwait                                 9.70           2007 est.
115    Kazakhstan                             7.70           2007 est.
116    Latvia                                 7.40           2007 est.
117    Azerbaijan                             6.70           2007 est.
118    Luxembourg                             6.40           2007 est.
119    Russia                                 5.90           2007 est.
120    Wallis and Futuna                      5.60           2004 est.
121    Botswana                               5.40           2007 est.
122    Libya                                  4.70           2007 est.
123    Chile                                  4.10           2007 est.
124    Oman                                   3.70           2007 est.
125    Estonia                                3.40           2007 est.
126    Equatorial Guinea                      1.60           2007 est.

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2187

Rank   Country                           Current account balance  Date of Information

1      China                             $     371,800,000,000  2007 est.
2      Germany                           $     254,500,000,000  2007 est.
3      Japan                             $     210,500,000,000  2007 est.
4      Saudi Arabia                      $      86,620,000,000  2007 est.
5      Russia                            $      78,310,000,000  2007 est.
6      Switzerland                       $      72,350,000,000  2007 est.
7      Norway                            $      64,070,000,000  2007 est.
8      Kuwait                            $      47,500,000,000  2007 est.
9      Netherlands                       $      47,310,000,000  2007 est.
10     Singapore                         $      46,390,000,000  2007 est.
11     Sweden                            $      37,970,000,000  2007 est.
12     United Arab Emirates              $      34,530,000,000  2007 est.
13     Taiwan                            $      32,880,000,000  2007 est.
14     Algeria                           $      32,050,000,000  2007 est.
15     Iran                              $      28,950,000,000  2007 est.
16     Malaysia                          $      28,930,000,000  2007 est.
17     Hong Kong                         $      28,040,000,000  2007 est.
18     Libya                             $      26,380,000,000  2007 est.
19     Venezuela                         $      20,000,000,000  2007 est.
20     Thailand                          $      14,920,000,000  2007 est.
21     Angola                            $      13,580,000,000  2007 est.
22     Canada                            $      12,670,000,000  2007 est.
23     Austria                           $      12,030,000,000  2007 est.
24     Finland                           $      11,400,000,000  2007 est.
25     Indonesia                         $      11,010,000,000  2007 est.
26     Qatar                             $      10,410,000,000  2007 est.
27     Azerbaijan                        $       9,019,000,000  2007 est.
28     Argentina                         $       7,438,000,000  2007 est.
29     Chile                             $       7,200,000,000  2007 est.
30     Brunei                            $       7,101,000,000  2007 est.
31     Philippines                       $       6,351,000,000  2007 est.
32     Iraq                              $       6,025,000,000  2007 est.
33     Korea, South                      $       5,954,000,000  2007 est.
34     Trinidad and Tobago               $       5,378,000,000  2007 est.
35     Israel                            $       5,197,000,000  2007 est.
36     Luxembourg                        $       4,921,000,000  2007 est.
37     Oman                              $       4,866,000,000  2007 est.
38     Uzbekistan                        $       4,615,000,000  2007 est.
39     Denmark                           $       4,279,000,000  2007 est.
40     Belgium                           $       3,282,000,000  2007 est.
41     Bahrain                           $       2,907,000,000  2007 est.
42     Nigeria                           $       2,514,000,000  2007 est.
43     Botswana                          $       1,973,000,000  2007 est.
44     Bolivia                           $       1,796,000,000  2007 est.
45     Brazil                            $       1,712,000,000  2007 est.
46     Turkmenistan                      $       1,705,000,000  2007 est.
47     Gabon                             $       1,552,000,000  2007 est.
48     Peru                              $       1,516,000,000  2007 est.
49     Burma                             $       1,427,000,000  2007 est.
50     Timor-Leste                       $       1,161,000,000  2007 est.
51     Ecuador                           $       1,064,000,000  2007 est.
52     Syria                             $        908,000,000  2007 est.
53     Namibia                           $        805,200,000  2007 est.
54     Bangladesh                        $        804,700,000  2007 est.
55     Egypt                             $        500,900,000  2007 est.
56     Equatorial Guinea                 $        415,000,000  2007 est.
57     Cuba                              $        240,000,000  2007 est.
58     British Virgin Islands            $        134,300,000  1999
59     Papua New Guinea                  $        125,800,000  2007 est.
60     Paraguay                          $        119,000,000  2007 est.
61     Bhutan                            $        116,000,000  2007 est.
62     Nepal                             $         58,000,000  2007
63     Lesotho                           $         49,000,000  2007 est.
64     Cook Islands                      $         26,670,000  2005
65     Suriname                          $         24,000,000  2007 est.
66     Palau                             $         15,090,000  FY03/04
67     Comoros                           $          8,000,000  2007 est.
68     Guinea-Bissau                     $         -6,000,000  2007 est.
69     Tuvalu                            $        -11,680,000  2003
70     Kiribati                          $        -21,000,000  2007 est.
71     Mongolia                          $        -23,000,000  2007 est.
72     Tonga                             $        -23,000,000  2007 est.
73     Samoa                             $        -24,000,000  2007 est.
74     Swaziland                         $        -24,000,000  2007 est.
75     Micronesia, Federated States of   $        -34,300,000  FY05 est.
76     Anguilla                          $        -42,870,000  2003 est.
77     Belize                            $        -43,000,000  2007 est.
78     Sao Tome and Principe             $        -55,000,000  2007 est.
79     Kosovo                            $        -58,300,000  2007
80     Vanuatu                           $        -60,000,000  2007 est.
81     Sierra Leone                      $        -63,000,000  2007 est.
82     Gambia, The                       $        -71,000,000  2007 est.
83     Dominica                          $        -72,000,000  2007 est.
84     Central African Republic          $        -77,000,000  2007 est.
85     Burundi                           $       -101,000,000  2007 est.
86     Cape Verde                        $       -132,600,000  2007 est.
87     Grenada                           $       -138,000,000  2007 est.
88     Solomon Islands                   $       -143,000,000  2007 est.
89     Cote d'Ivoire                     $       -146,000,000  2007 est.
90     Rwanda                            $       -147,000,000  2007 est.
91     Saint Vincent and the Grenadines  $       -149,000,000  2007 est.
92     Guyana                            $       -157,000,000  2007 est.
93     Togo                              $       -159,000,000  2007 est.
94     Saint Kitts and Nevis             $       -163,000,000  2007 est.
95     Chad                              $       -171,000,000  2007 est.
96     Mauritania                        $       -184,000,000  2007 est.
97     Uruguay                           $       -185,600,000  2007 est.
98     Saint Lucia                       $       -199,000,000  2007 est.
99     Eritrea                           $       -205,000,000  2007 est.
100    Antigua and Barbuda               $       -211,000,000  2007 est.
101    Djibouti                          $       -212,000,000  2007 est.
102    Liberia                           $       -224,000,000  2007
103    Zambia                            $       -228,000,000  2007 est.
104    Macedonia                         $       -249,000,000  2007 est.
105    Barbados                          $       -254,000,000  2007 est.
106    Kyrgyzstan                        $       -267,900,000  2007 est.
107    Seychelles                        $       -272,000,000  2007 est.
108    Laos                              $       -285,000,000  2007 est.
109    Malawi                            $       -318,000,000  2007 est.
110    Niger                             $       -321,000,000  2007 est.
111    Cameroon                          $       -325,000,000  2007 est.
112    Tajikistan                        $       -351,000,000  2007 est.
113    Yemen                             $       -362,000,000  2007 est.
114    Congo, Democratic Republic of the  $       -402,000,000  2007 est.
115    Mauritius                         $       -408,300,000  2007 est.
116    Guinea                            $       -424,000,000  2007 est.
117    Malta                             $       -424,500,000  2007 est.
118    Benin                             $       -441,000,000  2007 est.
119    Mali                              $       -446,000,000  2007 est.
120    Haiti                             $       -467,000,000  2007 est.
121    Maldives                          $       -472,000,000  2007
122    Cambodia                          $       -506,300,000  2007 est.
123    Fiji                              $       -507,000,000  2007 est.
124    Armenia                           $       -571,400,000  2007 est.
125    Zimbabwe                          $       -649,000,000  2007 est.
126    Moldova                           $       -694,700,000  2007 est.
127    Burkina Faso                      $       -706,000,000  2007 est.
128    Uganda                            $       -744,700,000  2007 est.
129    Mozambique                        $       -795,100,000  2007 est.
130    Ethiopia                          $       -826,800,000  2007 est.
131    Madagascar                        $       -890,000,000  2007 est.
132    Tunisia                           $       -905,000,000  2007 est.
133    Nicaragua                         $      -1,001,000,000  2007 est.
134    Sri Lanka                         $      -1,019,000,000  2007 est.
135    El Salvador                       $      -1,119,000,000  2007 est.
136    Kenya                             $      -1,147,000,000  2007 est.
137    Albania                           $      -1,202,000,000  2007 est.
138    Honduras                          $      -1,225,000,000  2007 est.
139    Bahamas, The                      $      -1,442,000,000  2007 est.
140    Senegal                           $      -1,458,000,000  2007 est.
141    Congo, Republic of the            $      -1,491,000,000  2007 est.
142    Costa Rica                        $      -1,499,000,000  2007 est.
143    Ghana                             $      -1,549,000,000  2007 est.
144    Panama                            $      -1,577,000,000  2007 est.
145    Guatemala                         $      -1,663,000,000  2007 est.
146    Jamaica                           $      -1,830,000,000  2007 est.
147    Morocco                           $      -1,834,000,000  2007 est.
148    Tanzania                          $      -1,856,000,000  2007 est.
149    Bosnia and Herzegovina            $      -1,939,000,000  2007 est.
150    Georgia                           $      -2,044,000,000  2007 est.
151    Lebanon                           $      -2,046,000,000  2007 est.
152    Cyprus                            $      -2,144,000,000  2007 est.
153    Slovenia                          $      -2,181,000,000  2007 est.
154    Dominican Republic                $      -2,231,000,000  2007 est.
155    Jordan                            $      -2,767,000,000  2007 est.
156    Belarus                           $      -2,876,000,000  2007 est.
157    Iceland                           $      -3,189,000,000  2007 est.
158    Sudan                             $      -3,447,000,000  2007 est.
159    Estonia                           $      -3,771,000,000  2007 est.
160    Slovakia                          $      -3,998,000,000  2007 est.
161    Czech Republic                    $      -4,534,000,000  2007 est.
162    Croatia                           $      -4,850,000,000  2007 est.
163    Lithuania                         $      -5,260,000,000  2007 est.
164    Mexico                            $      -5,525,000,000  2007 est.
165    Colombia                          $      -5,862,000,000  2007 est.
166    Ukraine                           $      -5,918,000,000  2007 est.
167    Latvia                            $      -6,231,000,000  2007 est.
168    Serbia                            $      -6,889,000,000  2007 est.
169    Vietnam                           $      -6,993,000,000  2007 est.
170    Kazakhstan                        $      -7,184,000,000  2007 est.
171    Hungary                           $      -8,018,000,000  2007 est.
172    Pakistan                          $      -8,255,000,000  2007 est.
173    Bulgaria                          $      -8,530,000,000  2007 est.
174    New Zealand                       $     -10,230,000,000  2007 est.
175    India                             $     -12,110,000,000  2007 est.
176    Ireland                           $     -14,120,000,000  2007 est.
177    Poland                            $     -15,910,000,000  2007 est.
178    South Africa                      $     -20,630,000,000  2007 est.
179    Portugal                          $     -21,750,000,000  2007 est.
180    Romania                           $     -23,020,000,000  2007 est.
181    France                            $     -31,250,000,000  2007 est.
182    Turkey                            $     -37,580,000,000  2007 est.
183    Greece                            $     -44,400,000,000  2007 est.
184    Italy                             $     -51,030,000,000  2007 est.
185    Australia                         $     -56,780,000,000  2007 est.
186    United Kingdom                    $    -119,200,000,000  2007 est.
187    Spain                             $    -145,300,000,000  2007 est.
188    United States                     $    -731,200,000,000  2007 est.

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2188

Rank   Country                           Reserves of foreign exchange and gold  Date of Information

1      China                             $    1,534,000,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
2      Japan                             $     954,100,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
3      Russia                            $     476,400,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
4      India                             $     275,000,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
5      Taiwan                            $     275,000,000,000  31 December 2007
6      Korea, South                      $     262,200,000,000  31 December 2007
7      Brazil                            $     180,300,000,000  31 December 2007
8      Singapore                         $     163,000,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
9      Hong Kong                         $     152,700,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
10     Germany                           $     136,200,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
11     France                            $     115,700,000,000  2006 est.
12     Algeria                           $     110,600,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
13     Malaysia                          $     101,100,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
14     Italy                             $      94,330,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
15     Thailand                          $      87,460,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
16     Mexico                            $      87,190,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
17     Libya                             $      79,600,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
18     United Arab Emirates              $      77,240,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
19     Turkey                            $      76,510,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
20     Switzerland                       $      75,370,000,000  2006 est.
21     United States                     $      70,570,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
22     Iran                              $      69,200,000,000  2007 est.
23     Poland                            $      65,750,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
24     Norway                            $      60,840,000,000  2006 est.
25     United Kingdom                    $      57,300,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
26     Indonesia                         $      56,920,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
27     Nigeria                           $      51,330,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
28     Argentina                         $      46,120,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
29     Canada                            $      41,080,000,000  2007 est.
30     Romania                           $      39,960,000,000  31 December 2007
31     Czech Republic                    $      34,590,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
32     Denmark                           $      34,320,000,000  2006 est.
33     Saudi Arabia                      $      34,010,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
34     Philippines                       $      33,750,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
35     Venezuela                         $      33,480,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
36     South Africa                      $      32,940,000,000  31 December 2007
37     Ukraine                           $      32,480,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
38     Egypt                             $      31,370,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
39     Sweden                            $      31,040,000,000  2006 est.
40     Israel                            $      28,520,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
41     Peru                              $      27,780,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
42     Netherlands                       $      26,980,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
43     Australia                         $      26,910,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
44     Iraq                              $      25,660,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
45     Morocco                           $      24,720,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
46     Hungary                           $      24,050,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
47     Vietnam                           $      23,870,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
48     Colombia                          $      20,950,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
49     Lebanon                           $      20,550,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
50     Spain                             $      19,050,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
51     Slovakia                          $      18,980,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
52     Austria                           $      18,220,000,000  2006 est.
53     Kazakhstan                        $      17,630,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
54     Bulgaria                          $      17,380,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
55     New Zealand                       $      17,250,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
56     Chile                             $      16,840,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
57     Kuwait                            $      16,780,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
58     Belgium                           $      16,510,000,000  2007 est.
59     Pakistan                          $      15,690,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
60     Serbia                            $      14,220,000,000  2007 est.
61     Croatia                           $      13,670,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
62     Portugal                          $      11,550,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
63     Angola                            $      11,200,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
64     Botswana                          $       9,790,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
65     Qatar                             $       9,752,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
66     Oman                              $       9,524,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
67     Finland                           $       8,385,000,000  2007
68     Jordan                            $       7,929,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
69     Tunisia                           $       7,854,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
70     Yemen                             $       7,760,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
71     Lithuania                         $       7,721,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
72     Uzbekistan                        $       6,750,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
73     Trinidad and Tobago               $       6,745,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
74     Cyprus                            $       6,507,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
75     Syria                             $       6,046,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
76     Latvia                            $       5,758,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
77     Slovenia                          $       5,682,000,000  30 September 2007 est.
78     Bolivia                           $       5,318,000,000  31 October 2007
79     Bangladesh                        $       5,278,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
80     Turkmenistan                      $       5,172,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
81     Bosnia and Herzegovina            $       4,525,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
82     Azerbaijan                        $       4,273,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
83     Belarus                           $       4,266,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
84     Cuba                              $       4,247,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
85     Guatemala                         $       4,139,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
86     Uruguay                           $       4,121,000,000  December 2007 est.
87     Costa Rica                        $       4,114,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
88     Bahrain                           $       4,101,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
89     Equatorial Guinea                 $       3,846,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
90     Malta                             $       3,798,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
91     Greece                            $       3,658,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
92     Sri Lanka                         $       3,644,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
93     Ecuador                           $       3,521,000,000  30 November 2007 est.
94     Kenya                             $       3,355,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
95     Estonia                           $       3,270,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
96     Cameroon                          $       2,932,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
97     Tanzania                          $       2,910,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
98     Dominican Republic                $       2,562,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
99     Uganda                            $       2,560,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
100    Honduras                          $       2,546,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
101    Cote d'Ivoire                     $       2,519,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
102    Paraguay                          $       2,463,000,000  31 December 2007
103    Iceland                           $       2,436,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
104    Macedonia                         $       2,265,000,000  31 December 2007
105    Burma                             $       2,262,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
106    Congo, Republic of the            $       2,206,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
107    Ghana                             $       2,204,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
108    El Salvador                       $       2,199,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
109    Albania                           $       2,162,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
110    Cambodia                          $       2,143,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
111    Papua New Guinea                  $       2,087,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
112    Panama                            $       1,935,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
113    Jamaica                           $       1,905,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
114    Mauritius                         $       1,822,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
115    Senegal                           $       1,660,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
116    Armenia                           $       1,657,000,000  December 2007 est.
117    Mozambique                        $       1,445,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
118    Sudan                             $       1,378,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
119    Georgia                           $       1,361,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
120    Moldova                           $       1,334,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
121    Ethiopia                          $       1,294,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
122    Gabon                             $       1,238,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
123    Benin                             $       1,209,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
124    Kyrgyzstan                        $       1,177,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
125    Nicaragua                         $       1,103,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
126    Zambia                            $       1,090,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
127    Burkina Faso                      $       1,029,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
128    Chad                              $        969,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
129    Ireland                           $        926,200,000  2006 est.
130    Namibia                           $        896,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
131    Lesotho                           $        852,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
132    Madagascar                        $        846,700,000  31 December 2007 est.
133    Swaziland                         $        762,700,000  31 December 2007 est.
134    Barbados                          $        620,000,000  2007
135    Rwanda                            $        552,800,000  31 December 2007 est.
136    Laos                              $        540,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
137    Haiti                             $        444,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
138    Togo                              $        438,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
139    Cape Verde                        $        398,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
140    Guyana                            $        313,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
141    Suriname                          $        263,300,000  2006
142    Tajikistan                        $        242,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
143    Malawi                            $        217,200,000  31 December 2007 est.
144    Luxembourg                        $        205,500,000  2006 est.
145    Burundi                           $        177,100,000  31 December 2007 est.
146    Gambia, The                       $        142,800,000  31 December 2007 est.
147    Zimbabwe                          $        120,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
148    Guinea                            $        119,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
149    Belize                            $        109,000,000  31 December 2007 est.
150    Samoa                             $         70,150,000  FY03/04
151    Tonga                             $         40,830,000  yearend, FY04/05
152    Seychelles                        $         40,800,000  31 December 2007 est.
153    Vanuatu                           $         40,540,000  2003
154    Sao Tome and Principe             $         34,600,000  31 December 2007 est.
155    Eritrea                           $         23,000,000  31 December 2007 est.

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2198

Rank   Country                           Stock of direct foreign investment - at home  Date of Information

1      World                              14,000,000,000,000.00  year-end 2007 est.
2      United States                      2,093,000,000,000.00  2007 est.
3      United Kingdom                     1,288,000,000,000.00  2007 est.
4      Hong Kong                          1,185,000,000,000.00  2007 est.
5      France                             942,300,000,000.00  2007 est.
6      Germany                            855,800,000,000.00  2007 est.
7      China                              758,900,000,000.00  2007 est.
8      Belgium                            678,200,000,000.00  2007 est.
9      Netherlands                        673,400,000,000.00  2007 est.
10     Spain                              568,800,000,000.00  2007 est.
11     Canada                             527,400,000,000.00  2007 est.
12     Italy                              364,800,000,000.00  2007 est.
13     Australia                          315,000,000,000.00  2007 est.
14     Switzerland                        306,400,000,000.00  2007 est.
15     Russia                             271,600,000,000.00  2006
16     Mexico                             260,900,000,000.00  2007 est.
17     Brazil                             248,900,000,000.00  2007 est.
18     Austria                            222,900,000,000.00  2007 est.
19     Sweden                             216,600,000,000.00  2007 est.
20     Singapore                          214,500,000,000.00  2007 est.
21     Ireland                            191,400,000,000.00  2007 est.
22     Denmark                            149,700,000,000.00  2007 est.
23     Poland                             143,000,000,000.00  2007 est.
24     Korea, South                       119,600,000,000.00  2007 est.
25     Japan                              110,800,000,000.00  2007 est.
26     Hungary                            108,600,000,000.00  2007 est.
27     Turkey                             106,400,000,000.00  2007 est.
28     India                              95,960,000,000.00  2007 est.
29     South Africa                       93,510,000,000.00  2007 est.
30     Taiwan                             92,830,000,000.00  2007
31     Chile                              91,490,000,000.00  2007 est.
32     Portugal                           91,190,000,000.00  2007 est.
33     Czech Republic                     86,750,000,000.00  2007 est.
34     Malaysia                           86,160,000,000.00  2007 est.
35     Finland                            85,240,000,000.00  2007 est.
36     Thailand                           80,830,000,000.00  2007 est.
37     New Zealand                        71,310,000,000.00  2007 est.
38     Argentina                          65,310,000,000.00  2007 est.
39     Norway                             62,630,000,000.00  2007 est.
40     Romania                            60,820,000,000.00  2007 est.
41     Israel                             57,970,000,000.00  2007 est.
42     Indonesia                          57,600,000,000.00  2007 est.
43     Colombia                           56,190,000,000.00  2007 est.
44     Greece                             52,840,000,000.00  2007 est.
45     Egypt                              48,460,000,000.00  2007 est.
46     Slovakia                           45,250,000,000.00  2007 est.
47     United Arab Emirates               44,370,000,000.00  2007 est.
48     Venezuela                          43,960,000,000.00  2007 est.
49     Kazakhstan                         40,160,000,000.00  2007 est.
50     Bulgaria                           33,910,000,000.00  2007 est.
51     Nigeria                            33,640,000,000.00  2007 est.
52     Morocco                            32,900,000,000.00  2007 est.
53     Vietnam                            32,740,000,000.00  2007 est.
54     Ukraine                            31,080,000,000.00  2007 est.
55     Tunisia                            26,220,000,000.00  2007 est.
56     Peru                               24,720,000,000.00  2007 est.
57     Croatia                            23,130,000,000.00  2007 est.
58     Pakistan                           20,010,000,000.00  2007 est.
59     Philippines                        19,880,000,000.00  2007 est.
60     Jordan                             18,180,000,000.00  2007 est.
61     Angola                             17,230,000,000.00  2007 est.
62     Estonia                            16,590,000,000.00  2007 est.
63     Ecuador                            16,310,000,000.00  2007 est.
64     Lithuania                          14,630,000,000.00  2007 est.
65     Cyprus                             13,360,000,000.00  2007 est.
66     Bahrain                            13,310,000,000.00  2007 est.
67     Dominican Republic                 12,750,000,000.00  2007 est.
68     Trinidad and Tobago                12,440,000,000.00  2007
69     Algeria                            12,040,000,000.00  2007 est.
70     Serbia                             11,950,000,000.00  2006 est.
71     Cuba                               11,240,000,000.00  2006 est.
72     Qatar                              11,180,000,000.00  2007 est.
73     Slovenia                           10,410,000,000.00  2007 est.
74     Latvia                              8,620,000,000.00  2007 est.
75     Costa Rica                          8,530,000,000.00  2007 est.
76     Azerbaijan                          7,829,000,000.00  2007 est.
77     Bolivia                             6,880,000,000.00  31 December 2004
78     Macau                               6,500,000,000.00  2006
79     Libya                               6,286,000,000.00  2007 est.
80     Iran                                6,026,000,000.00  2007 est.
81     El Salvador                         5,918,000,000.00  2007 est.
82     Bangladesh                          4,971,000,000.00  2007 est.
83     Chad                                4,500,000,000.00  2006 est.
84     Uruguay                             4,190,000,000.00  2007
85     Macedonia                           2,405,000,000.00  2007 est.
86     Kenya                               1,249,000,000.00  2007 est.
87     Kuwait                               898,000,000.00   2007 est.
88     Paraguay                               2,057,000.00   2007

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2199

Rank   Country                           Stock of direct foreign investment - abroad  Date of Information

1      World                              14,000,000,000,000.00  year-end 2007 est.
2      United States                      2,791,000,000,000.00  2007 est.
3      United Kingdom                     1,707,000,000,000.00  2007 est.
4      France                             1,307,000,000,000.00  2007 est.
5      Germany                            1,218,000,000,000.00  2007 est.
6      Hong Kong                          1,027,000,000,000.00  2007 est.
7      Netherlands                        851,300,000,000.00  2007 est.
8      Spain                              681,700,000,000.00  2007 est.
9      Switzerland                        605,600,000,000.00  2007 est.
10     Belgium                            540,100,000,000.00  2007 est.
11     Japan                              533,100,000,000.00  2007 est.
12     Italy                              520,100,000,000.00  2007 est.
13     Canada                             514,700,000,000.00  2007 est.
14     Australia                          280,600,000,000.00  2007 est.
15     Sweden                             261,500,000,000.00  2007 est.
16     Russia                             209,600,000,000.00  2006
17     Austria                            208,100,000,000.00  2007 est.
18     Denmark                            166,600,000,000.00  2007 est.
19     Ireland                            139,600,000,000.00  2007 est.
20     Norway                             126,100,000,000.00  2007 est.
21     Finland                            113,000,000,000.00  2007 est.
22     Singapore                          111,200,000,000.00  2005
23     Taiwan                             108,900,000,000.00  2007
24     Brazil                             107,100,000,000.00  2007 est.
25     China                              93,750,000,000.00   2007 est.
26     Korea, South                       82,100,000,000.00  2006
27     Portugal                           54,850,000,000.00  2007 est.
28     South Africa                       53,980,000,000.00  2007 est.
29     Hungary                            45,540,000,000.00  2007 est.
30     Malaysia                           42,550,000,000.00  2007 est.
31     Israel                             41,960,000,000.00  2007 est.
32     Mexico                             39,010,000,000.00  2007 est.
33     India                              37,500,000,000.00  2007 est.
34     Greece                             30,800,000,000.00  2007 est.
35     Argentina                          26,260,000,000.00  2007 est.
36     Chile                              24,680,000,000.00  2007 est.
37     Kuwait                             24,220,000,000.00  2007 est.
38     Poland                             19,690,000,000.00  2007 est.
39     United Arab Emirates               14,140,000,000.00  2007 est.
40     Venezuela                          13,810,000,000.00  2007 est.
41     Nigeria                            12,630,000,000.00  2007 est.
42     Turkey                             11,350,000,000.00  2007 est.
43     Colombia                           10,380,000,000.00  2007 est.
44     Indonesia                           9,225,000,000.00  2006 est.
45     Bahrain                             7,720,000,000.00  2007 est.
46     Thailand                            7,013,000,000.00  2007 est.
47     Slovenia                            6,127,000,000.00  2007 est.
48     Czech Republic                      6,058,000,000.00  2007 est.
49     Estonia                             5,873,000,000.00  2007 est.
50     Qatar                               5,625,000,000.00  2007 est.
51     Philippines                         5,584,000,000.00  2007 est.
52     Cyprus                              5,419,000,000.00  2007 est.
53     Azerbaijan                          4,912,000,000.00  2007 est.
54     Cuba                                4,138,000,000.00  2006 est.
55     Kazakhstan                          3,970,000,000.00  September 2007
56     Libya                               3,333,000,000.00  2007 est.
57     Croatia                             3,161,000,000.00  2007 est.
58     Lithuania                           1,642,000,000.00  2007 est.
59     Slovakia                            1,509,000,000.00  2007 est.
60     Peru                                1,476,000,000.00  2007 est.
61     Ecuador                             1,456,000,000.00  2007 est.
62     Trinidad and Tobago                 1,419,000,000.00  2007
63     Egypt                               1,295,000,000.00  2007 est.
64     Macau                               1,100,000,000.00  2006
65     Pakistan                             982,000,000.00   2007 est.
66     Romania                              915,000,000.00   2007 est.
67     Iran                                 903,000,000.00   2007 est.
68     Ukraine                              895,000,000.00   2007 est.
69     Morocco                              882,000,000.00   2006 est.
70     Algeria                              851,000,000.00   2007 est.
71     Latvia                               699,000,000.00   2007 est.
72     Bulgaria                             559,000,000.00   2007 est.
73     Costa Rica                           490,000,000.00   2007 est.
74     El Salvador                          384,000,000.00   2007 est.
75     Angola                               227,000,000.00   2006 est.
76     Uruguay                              156,000,000.00   2007
77     Tunisia                              118,000,000.00   2007 est.
78     Bangladesh                           104,000,000.00   2007 est.
79     Dominican Republic                    59,000,000.00   2007 est.
80     Kenya                                 47,000,000.00   2007 est.

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2200

Rank   Country                           Market value of publicly traded shares  Date of Information

1      World                              53,510,000,000,000.00  2006
2      United States                      17,000,000,000,000.00  2005
3      European Union                     11,640,000,000,000.00  2006
4      Japan                              4,737,000,000,000.00  2005
5      China                              4,477,000,000,000.00  31 December 2007 est.
6      United Kingdom                     3,058,000,000,000.00  2005
7      Hong Kong                          2,970,000,000,000.00  2007 est.
8      France                             1,710,000,000,000.00  2005
9      Canada                             1,481,000,000,000.00  2005
10     Russia                             1,322,000,000,000.00  2006
11     Germany                            1,221,000,000,000.00  2005
12     Finland                            1,095,000,000,000.00  January 2008
13     Korea, South                       1,051,000,000,000.00  2007
14     Spain                              960,000,000,000.00  2005
15     Switzerland                        938,600,000,000.00  2005
16     Netherlands                        924,400,000,000.00  November 2007
17     South Africa                       842,000,000,000.00  January 2008
18     India                              818,900,000,000.00  2006
19     Australia                          804,100,000,000.00  2005
20     Italy                              798,200,000,000.00  2005
21     Brazil                             711,100,000,000.00  2006
22     Taiwan                             654,000,000,000.00  28 December 2007
23     Netherlands Antilles               488,600,000,000.00  2003
24     Belgium                            422,700,000,000.00  2006
25     Sweden                             403,900,000,000.00  2005
26     Singapore                          382,400,000,000.00  2007
27     Mexico                             348,300,000,000.00  2006
28     Saudi Arabia                       326,900,000,000.00  2006
29     Malaysia                           235,400,000,000.00  2006
30     Norway                             191,000,000,000.00  2005
31     Denmark                            178,000,000,000.00  2005
32     Chile                              174,600,000,000.00  2006
33     Israel                             173,300,000,000.00  2006
34     Turkey                             162,400,000,000.00  2006
35     Poland                             149,100,000,000.00  2006
36     Greece                             145,000,000,000.00  2005
37     Thailand                           139,600,000,000.00  2006
38     Indonesia                          138,900,000,000.00  2006
39     United Arab Emirates               138,500,000,000.00  2006
40     Kuwait                             128,900,000,000.00  2006
41     Austria                            126,300,000,000.00  2005
42     Ireland                            114,100,000,000.00  2005
43     Philippines                        103,400,000,000.00  2007
44     Egypt                              93,480,000,000.00  2006
45     Argentina                          79,730,000,000.00  2006
46     Luxembourg                         79,400,000,000.00  2006
47     Portugal                           66,980,000,000.00  2005
48     Qatar                              61,560,000,000.00  2006
49     Peru                               59,660,000,000.00  2006
50     Colombia                           56,200,000,000.00  2006
51     Morocco                            49,600,000,000.00  2006
52     Czech Republic                     48,600,000,000.00  2006
53     Cyprus                             48,200,000,000.00  2005
54     Pakistan                           45,520,000,000.00  2006
55     Romania                            45,420,000,000.00  2007
56     Iran                               45,200,000,000.00  December 2007
57     Ukraine                            42,870,000,000.00  2006
58     Hungary                            41,930,000,000.00  2006
59     New Zealand                        40,620,000,000.00  2005
60     Nigeria                            32,820,000,000.00  2006
61     Jordan                             29,730,000,000.00  2006
62     Croatia                            29,010,000,000.00  2006
63     Iceland                            27,800,000,000.00  2005
64     Zimbabwe                           26,560,000,000.00  2006
65     Bahrain                            21,120,000,000.00  2006
66     Oman                               16,160,000,000.00  2006
67     Trinidad and Tobago                15,570,000,000.00  2006
68     Slovenia                           15,180,000,000.00  2006
69     Ghana                              13,010,000,000.00  2007
70     Jamaica                            12,280,000,000.00  2006
71     Kenya                              11,380,000,000.00  2006
72     Kazakhstan                         10,520,000,000.00  2005
73     Bulgaria                           10,320,000,000.00  2006
74     Lithuania                          10,190,000,000.00  2006
75     Lebanon                             8,279,000,000.00  2006
76     Venezuela                           8,251,000,000.00  2006
77     Sri Lanka                           7,769,000,000.00  2006
78     Estonia                             5,963,000,000.00  2006
79     Mauritius                           5,700,000,000.00  2007
80     Slovakia                            5,574,000,000.00  2006
81     Barbados                            5,513,000,000.00  2005
82     Serbia                              5,409,000,000.00  2005
83     Panama                              5,074,000,000.00  2005
84     Papua New Guinea                    4,863,000,000.00  2005
85     Zambia                              4,500,000,000.00  2007
86     West Bank                           4,461,000,000.00  2005
87     Tunisia                             4,446,000,000.00  2006
88     Cote d'Ivoire                       4,155,000,000.00  2006
89     Malta                               4,097,000,000.00  2005
90     Ecuador                             4,040,000,000.00  2006
91     Botswana                            3,947,000,000.00  2006
92     El Salvador                         3,623,000,000.00  2005
93     Bangladesh                          3,610,000,000.00  2006
94     Latvia                              2,705,000,000.00  2006
95     Bolivia                             2,200,000,000.00  2005
96     Bermuda                             2,125,000,000.00  2005
97     Costa Rica                          1,478,000,000.00  2005
98     Georgia                             1,390,000,000.00  2007
99     Nepal                                963,500,000.00   2005
100    Macedonia                            646,000,000.00   2005
101    Mongolia                             613,300,000.00   2007
102    Tanzania                             587,900,000.00   2005
103    Fiji                                 586,700,000.00   2005
104    Moldova                              573,900,000.00   2004
105    Namibia                              541,800,000.00   2006
106    Macau                                413,100,000.00   2004
107    Paraguay                             233,800,000.00   2005
108    Uruguay                              224,000,000.00   2007
109    Swaziland                            196,800,000.00   2005
110    Guyana                               187,300,000.00   2005
111    Cayman Islands                       130,000,000.00   2005
112    Uganda                               103,400,000.00   2005
113    Armenia                               42,800,000.00   2005
114    Kyrgyzstan                            41,990,000.00   2005
115    Uzbekistan                            36,890,000.00   2005

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2206

Rank   Country                           Education expenditures(% of GDP)  Date of Information

1      Kiribati                                    17.80     2002
2      Lesotho                                     13.00     2006
3      Marshall Islands                            11.80     2004
4      Palau                                       10.30     2002
5      Yemen                                        9.60     2001
6      Vanuatu                                      9.50     2003
7      Uzbekistan                                   9.40     1991
8      Saint Kitts and Nevis                        9.30     2005
9      Cuba                                         9.10     2006
10     Botswana                                     8.70     2007
11     Djibouti                                     8.40     2006
12     Denmark                                      8.30     2005
13     Guyana                                       8.30     2006
14     Saint Vincent and the Grenadines             8.10     2005
15     Maldives                                     8.00     2006
16     Iceland                                      7.60     2004
17     Moldova                                      7.60     2006
18     Micronesia, Federated States of              7.30     2000
19     Tunisia                                      7.30     2005
20     Norway                                       7.20     2005
21     Sweden                                       7.10     2005
22     Bhutan                                       7.00     2005
23     Swaziland                                    7.00     2005
24     Barbados                                     6.90     2005
25     Israel                                       6.90     2004
26     Namibia                                      6.90     2003
27     Kenya                                        6.90     2006
28     Saudi Arabia                                 6.80     2004
29     Saint Lucia                                  6.60     2006
30     Fiji                                         6.50     2004
31     Seychelles                                   6.50     2006
32     Bolivia                                      6.40     2003
33     Finland                                      6.40     2005
34     Cape Verde                                   6.30     2006
35     Cyprus                                       6.30     2004
36     Ukraine                                      6.30     2006
37     Malaysia                                     6.20     2004
38     New Zealand                                  6.20     2006
39     Belarus                                      6.10     2006
40     Belgium                                      6.00     2004
41     Slovenia                                     6.00     2005
42     Sudan                                        6.00     1991
43     Ethiopia                                     6.00     2006
44     Malawi                                       5.80     2003
45     Switzerland                                  5.80     2005
46     France                                       5.70     2005
47     United Kingdom                               5.60     2005
48     Hungary                                      5.50     2005
49     Mexico                                       5.50     2005
50     Portugal                                     5.50     2005
51     Poland                                       5.50     2005
52     Austria                                      5.40     2005
53     South Africa                                 5.40     2006
54     Ghana                                        5.40     2005
55     Belize                                       5.30     2004
56     Jamaica                                      5.30     2005
57     United States                                5.30     2005
58     Netherlands                                  5.30     2005
59     Brunei                                       5.20     2000
60     Guinea-Bissau                                5.20     1999
61     Uganda                                       5.20     2004
62     Grenada                                      5.20     2003
63     Canada                                       5.20     2002
64     Algeria                                      5.10     1999
65     Malta                                        5.10     2004
66     Latvia                                       5.10     2004
67     Iran                                         5.10     2006
68     Estonia                                      5.10     2004
69     Burundi                                      5.10     2005
70     Dominica                                     5.00     1999
71     Tonga                                        5.00     2004
72     Lithuania                                    5.00     2005
73     Mongolia                                     5.00     2004
74     Senegal                                      5.00     2006
75     Mozambique                                   5.00     2005
76     Costa Rica                                   4.90     2004
77     Jordan                                       4.90     1999
78     Kyrgyzstan                                   4.90     2005
79     Aruba                                        4.80     2005
80     Colombia                                     4.70     2006
81     Ireland                                      4.70     2005
82     Germany                                      4.60     2004
83     Cote d'Ivoire                                4.60     2001
84     Zimbabwe                                     4.60     2000
85     Korea, South                                 4.60     2004
86     Australia                                    4.50     2005
87     Mali                                         4.50     2006
88     Italy                                        4.50     2005
89     Croatia                                      4.50     2004
90     Bulgaria                                     4.50     2005
91     Benin                                        4.40     2004
92     Greece                                       4.40     2005
93     Monaco                                       4.40     2004
94     Czech Republic                               4.40     2004
95     Samoa                                        4.30     2002
96     Egypt                                        4.20     2006
97     Spain                                        4.20     2005
98     Burkina Faso                                 4.20     2006
99     Thailand                                     4.20     2005
100    Trinidad and Tobago                          4.20     200
101    Anguilla                                     4.00     2005
102    Turkey                                       4.00     2004
103    Oman                                         4.00     2006
104    Paraguay                                     4.00     2004
105    Brazil                                       4.00     2004
106    Antigua and Barbuda                          3.90     2002
107    Bahrain                                      3.90     1991
108    Turkmenistan                                 3.90     1991
109    Syria                                        3.90     1999
110    Mauritius                                    3.90     2006
111    Slovakia                                     3.90     2005
112    Hong Kong                                    3.90     2006
113    Argentina                                    3.80     2004
114    Panama                                       3.80     2004
115    Rwanda                                       3.80     2005
116    Sierra Leone                                 3.80     2005
117    Russia                                       3.80     2005
118    Gabon                                        3.80     2000
119    Kuwait                                       3.80     2006
120    Comoros                                      3.80     2002
121    Honduras                                     3.80     1991
122    Singapore                                    3.70     2001
123    British Virgin Islands                       3.70     2006
124    Venezuela                                    3.70     2006
125    Bahamas, The                                 3.60     2000
126    Dominican Republic                           3.60     2006
127    Indonesia                                    3.60     2006
128    Japan                                        3.50     2005
129    Romania                                      3.50     2005
130    Macedonia                                    3.50     2002
131    Luxembourg                                   3.40     1999
132    Tajikistan                                   3.40     2006
133    Nepal                                        3.40     2003
134    Niger                                        3.40     2006
135    Solomon Islands                              3.30     1999
136    Qatar                                        3.30     2005
137    Montserrat                                   3.30     2004
138    Cameroon                                     3.30     2006
139    Armenia                                      3.20     2001
140    India                                        3.20     2005
141    Chile                                        3.20     2006
142    El Salvador                                  3.10     2006
143    Nicaragua                                    3.10     2003
144    Madagascar                                   3.10     2006
145    Georgia                                      3.10     2006
146    Laos                                         3.00     2006
147    Albania                                      2.90     2002
148    Uruguay                                      2.90     2006
149    Mauritania                                   2.90     2006
150    Cayman Islands                               2.80     2005
151    Bangladesh                                   2.70     2005
152    Libya                                        2.70     1999
153    Lebanon                                      2.70     2006
154    Guatemala                                    2.60     2006
155    Pakistan                                     2.60     2006
156    Togo                                         2.60     2002
157    Peru                                         2.50     2006
158    Philippines                                  2.50     2005
159    Angola                                       2.40     2005
160    Macau                                        2.40     2005
161    Eritrea                                      2.40     2006
162    Andorra                                      2.30     2006
163    Kazakhstan                                   2.30     2005
164    Tanzania                                     2.20     1999
165    Azerbaijan                                   2.10     2006
166    Gambia, The                                  2.00     2004
167    Zambia                                       2.00     2005
168    Chad                                         1.90     2005
169    Congo, Republic of the                       1.90     2005
170    China                                        1.90     1999
171    Vietnam                                      1.80     1991
172    Cambodia                                     1.70     2004
173    Guinea                                       1.60     2005
174    Central African Republic                     1.40     2006
175    Haiti                                        1.40     1991
176    United Arab Emirates                         1.30     2005
177    Bermuda                                      1.20     2006
178    Burma                                        1.20     2001
179    Ecuador                                      1.00     2001
180    Nigeria                                      0.90     1991
181    Equatorial Guinea                            0.60     2003
182    Cook Islands                                 0.20     2001

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2207

Rank   Country                           Central bank discount rate(%)  Date of Information

1      Zimbabwe                                   975.00     31 December 2007
2      Venezuela                                   28.50     31 December 2007
3      Sao Tome and Principe                       28.00     31 December 2007
4      Turkey                                      25.00     31 December 2007
5      Guinea                                      22.25     31 December 2005
6      Iraq                                        20.00     31 December 2007
7      Paraguay                                    20.00     31 December 2007
8      Angola                                      19.57     31 December 2007
9      Brazil                                      17.85     31 December 2007
10     Costa Rica                                  17.00     31 December 2007
11     Tanzania                                    16.40     31 December 2007
12     Iceland                                     15.25     31 December 2007
13     Sri Lanka                                   15.00     31 December 2007
14     Tajikistan                                  15.00     31 December 2007
15     Malawi                                      15.00     31 December 2007
16     Uganda                                      14.68     31 December 2007
17     Botswana                                    14.50     31 December 2007
18     Ghana                                       13.50     31 December 2007
19     Azerbaijan                                  13.00     31 December 2007
20     Lesotho                                     12.82     31 December 2007
21     Laos                                        12.67     31 December 2007
22     Maldives                                    12.50     31 December 2007
23     Rwanda                                      12.50     31 December 2007
24     Barbados                                    12.00     31 December 2007
25     Burma                                       12.00     31 December 2007
26     Belize                                      12.00     31 December 2007
27     Lebanon                                     12.00     31 December 2007
28     Zambia                                      11.73     31 December 2007
29     Colombia                                    11.50     31 December 2007
30     Kazakhstan                                  11.00     31 December 2007
31     South Africa                                11.00     31 December 2007
32     Swaziland                                   11.00     31 December 2007
33     Ecuador                                     10.72     31 December 2007
34     Namibia                                     10.50     31 December 2007
35     Burundi                                     10.12     31 December 2007
36     Belarus                                     10.00     31 December 2007
37     Trinidad and Tobago                         10.00     31 December 2007
38     Uruguay                                     10.00     31 December 2007
39     Russia                                      10.00     31 December 2007
40     Gambia, The                                 10.00     31 December 2007
41     Pakistan                                    10.00     31 December 2007
42     Mozambique                                   9.95     31 December 2007
43     Mongolia                                     9.87     31 December 2007
44     Serbia                                       9.57     31 December 2007
45     Nigeria                                      9.50     31 December 2007
46     Fiji                                         9.25     31 December 2007
47     Egypt                                        9.00     31 December 2007
48     Croatia                                      9.00     31 December 2007
49     Cape Verde                                   8.50     31 December 2007
50     New Zealand                                  8.25     31 December 2007
51     Indonesia                                    8.00     31 December 2007
52     Ukraine                                      8.00     31 December 2007
53     Hungary                                      7.50     31 December 2007
54     Papua New Guinea                             7.38     31 December 2007
55     Jordan                                       7.00     31 December 2007
56     Antigua and Barbuda                          6.50     31 December 2007
57     Anguilla                                     6.50     31 December 2007
58     Vietnam                                      6.50     31 December 2007
59     Saint Vincent and the Grenadines             6.50     31 December 2007
60     Saint Lucia                                  6.50     31 December 2007
61     Saint Kitts and Nevis                        6.50     31 December 2007
62     Macedonia                                    6.50     31 December 2007
63     Montserrat                                   6.50     31 December 2007
64     Guyana                                       6.50     31 December 2007
65     Grenada                                      6.50     31 December 2007
66     Dominica                                     6.50     31 December 2007
67     Bolivia                                      6.50     31 December 2007
68     Albania                                      6.25     31 December 2007
69     Norway                                       6.25     31 December 2007
70     Nepal                                        6.25     31 December 2007
71     Kuwait                                       6.25     31 December 2007
72     Chile                                        6.00     31 December 2007
73     Vanuatu                                      6.00     31 December 2007
74     Latvia                                       6.00     31 December 2007
75     India                                        6.00     31 December 2007
76     Hong Kong                                    5.75     31 December 2007
77     Peru                                         5.75     31 December 2007
78     Comoros                                      5.36     31 December 2007
79     Bahamas, The                                 5.25     31 December 2007
80     Congo, Democratic Republic of the             5.25    31 December 2007
81     Cambodia                                     5.25     31 December 2007
82     Chad                                         5.25     31 December 2007
83     Gabon                                        5.25     31 December 2007
84     Equatorial Guinea                            5.25     31 December 2007
85     Central African Republic                     5.25     31 December 2007
86     Seychelles                                   5.13     31 December 2007
87     Aruba                                        5.00     31 December 2007
88     Poland                                       5.00     31 December 2007
89     European Union                               5.00     31 December 2007
90     Cyprus                                       5.00     31 December 2007
91     Bangladesh                                   5.00     31 December 2007
92     Lithuania                                    4.85     31 December 2007
93     United States                                4.83     31 December 2007
94     Bulgaria                                     4.58     31 December 2007
95     Canada                                       4.50     31 December 2007
96     Philippines                                  4.28     31 December 2007
97     Benin                                        4.25     31 December 2007
98     Slovakia                                     4.25     31 December 2007
99     Mali                                         4.25     31 December 2007
100    Senegal                                      4.25     31 December 2007
101    Burkina Faso                                 4.25     31 December 2007
102    Togo                                         4.25     31 December 2007
103    Guinea-Bissau                                4.25     31 December 2007
104    Niger                                        4.25     31 December 2007
105    Cote d'Ivoire                                4.25     31 December 2007
106    Algeria                                      4.00     31 December 2007
107    Israel                                       4.00     31 December 2007
108    Libya                                        4.00     31 December 2007
109    Denmark                                      4.00     31 December 2007
110    Thailand                                     3.75     31 December 2007
111    Czech Republic                               3.50     31 December 2007
112    Sweden                                       3.50     31 December 2007
113    China                                        3.33     31 December 2007
114    Korea, South                                 3.25     31 December 2007
115    Morocco                                      3.25     31 December 2007
116    Switzerland                                  2.05     31 December 2007
117    Oman                                         1.98     31 December 2007
118    Japan                                        0.75     31 December 2007

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2208

Rank   Country                           Commercial bank prime lending rate(%)  Date of Information

1      Zimbabwe                                   578.96     31 December 2007
2      Haiti                                       46.99     31 December 2007
3      Madagascar                                  45.00     31 December 2007
4      Brazil                                      43.72     31 December 2007
5      Sao Tome and Principe                       32.40     31 December 2007
6      Laos                                        28.50     31 December 2007
7      Gambia, The                                 27.92     31 December 2007
8      Malawi                                      27.72     31 December 2007
9      Kyrgyzstan                                  25.32     31 December 2007
10     Paraguay                                    25.03     31 December 2007
11     Sierra Leone                                25.00     31 December 2007
12     Tajikistan                                  22.87     31 December 2007
13     Peru                                        22.86     31 December 2007
14     Mauritius                                   21.87     31 December 2007
15     Georgia                                     20.41     31 December 2007
16     Iraq                                        19.74     31 December 2007
17     Mozambique                                  19.52     31 December 2007
18     Iceland                                     19.29     31 December 2007
19     Azerbaijan                                  19.13     31 December 2007
20     Uganda                                      19.11     31 December 2007
21     Zambia                                      18.89     31 December 2007
22     Moldova                                     18.83     31 December 2007
23     Afghanistan                                 18.14     31 December 2007
24     Yemen                                       18.00     31 December 2007
25     Angola                                      17.70     31 December 2007
26     Mongolia                                    17.54     31 December 2007
27     Armenia                                     17.52     31 December 2007
28     Jamaica                                     17.20     31 December 2007
29     Venezuela                                   17.11     31 December 2007
30     Sri Lanka                                   17.08     31 December 2007
31     Burma                                       17.00     31 December 2007
32     Nigeria                                     16.94     31 December 2007
33     Burundi                                     16.84     31 December 2007
34     Honduras                                    16.61     31 December 2007
35     Botswana                                    16.22     31 December 2007
36     Tanzania                                    16.03     31 December 2007
37     Bangladesh                                  16.00     31 December 2007
38     Rwanda                                      15.84     31 December 2007
39     Dominican Republic                          15.83     31 December 2007
40     Colombia                                    15.38     31 December 2007
41     Liberia                                     15.05     31 December 2007
42     Timor-Leste                                 15.05     31 December 2007
43     Chad                                        15.00     31 December 2007
44     Congo, Republic of the                      15.00     31 December 2007
45     Gabon                                       15.00     31 December 2007
46     Equatorial Guinea                           15.00     31 December 2007
47     Central African Republic                    15.00     31 December 2007
48     Cameroon                                    15.00     31 December 2007
49     Guyana                                      14.61     31 December 2007
50     Belize                                      14.33     31 December 2007
51     Lesotho                                     14.13     31 December 2007
52     Solomon Islands                             14.12     31 December 2007
53     Albania                                     14.10     31 December 2007
54     Micronesia, Federated States of             14.03     31 December 2007
55     Bhutan                                      14.00     31 December 2007
56     Ukraine                                     13.90     31 December 2007
57     Indonesia                                   13.86     31 December 2007
58     Suriname                                    13.77     31 December 2007
59     Romania                                     13.35     31 December 2007
60     Kenya                                       13.34     31 December 2007
61     South Africa                                13.17     31 December 2007
62     Swaziland                                   13.17     31 December 2007
63     Nicaragua                                   13.04     31 December 2007
64     India                                       13.02     31 December 2007
65     Maldives                                    13.00     31 December 2007
66     Namibia                                     12.88     31 December 2007
67     Bolivia                                     12.86     31 December 2007
68     Guatemala                                   12.84     31 December 2007
69     New Zealand                                 12.83     31 December 2007
70     Costa Rica                                  12.80     31 December 2007
71     Samoa                                       12.65     31 December 2007
72     Egypt                                       12.51     31 December 2007
73     Tonga                                       12.16     31 December 2007
74     Ecuador                                     12.08     31 December 2007
75     Iran                                        12.00     31 December 2007
76     Trinidad and Tobago                         11.75     31 December 2007
77     Vietnam                                     11.18     31 December 2007
78     Serbia                                      11.13     31 December 2007
79     Argentina                                   11.05     31 December 2007
80     Aruba                                       11.01     31 December 2007
81     Italy                                       10.93     31 December 2007
82     Latvia                                      10.91     31 December 2007
83     Seychelles                                  10.89     31 December 2007
84     Barbados                                    10.80     31 December 2007
85     Cape Verde                                  10.55     31 December 2007
86     Comoros                                     10.50     31 December 2007
87     Antigua and Barbuda                         10.44     31 December 2007
88     Montserrat                                  10.40     31 December 2007
89     Lebanon                                     10.26     31 December 2007
90     Macedonia                                   10.23     31 December 2007
91     Saint Lucia                                 10.12     31 December 2007
92     Russia                                      10.03     31 December 2007
93     Australia                                   10.02     31 December 2007
94     Bulgaria                                    10.00     31 December 2007
95     Spain                                        9.89     31 December 2007
96     Papua New Guinea                             9.78     31 December 2007
97     Anguilla                                     9.76     31 December 2007
98     Grenada                                      9.76     31 December 2007
99     Saint Vincent and the Grenadines             9.61     31 December 2007
100    Croatia                                      9.33     31 December 2007
101    Saint Kitts and Nevis                        9.28     31 December 2007
102    Netherlands Antilles                         9.21     31 December 2007
103    Dominica                                     9.17     31 December 2007
104    Hungary                                      9.09     31 December 2007
105    Montenegro                                   9.09     31 December 2007
106    Fiji                                         9.01     31 December 2007
107    Uruguay                                      8.94     31 December 2007
108    Netherlands                                  8.72     31 December 2007
109    Philippines                                  8.69     31 December 2007
110    Jordan                                       8.68     31 December 2007
111    Chile                                        8.67     31 December 2007
112    Belarus                                      8.58     31 December 2007
113    Kuwait                                       8.54     31 December 2007
114    Bahrain                                      8.35     31 December 2007
115    Panama                                       8.25     31 December 2007
116    Vanuatu                                      8.16     31 December 2007
117    United States                                8.05     31 December 2007
118    European Union                               8.03     31 December 2007
119    Algeria                                      8.00     31 December 2007
120    Nepal                                        8.00     31 December 2007
121    Syria                                        8.00     31 December 2005
122    Slovakia                                     7.99     31 December 2007
123    Portugal                                     7.92     31 December 2007
124    Macau                                        7.81     31 December 2007
125    Gaza Strip                                   7.73     31 December 2006
126    West Bank                                    7.73     31 December 2006
127    Greece                                       7.71     31 December 2007
128    San Marino                                   7.58     31 December 2007
129    Mexico                                       7.56     31 December 2007
130    China                                        7.47     31 December 2007
131    Qatar                                        7.43     31 December 2007
132    Oman                                         7.29     31 December 2007
133    France                                       7.28     31 December 2007
134    Bosnia and Herzegovina                       7.17     31 December 2007
135    Thailand                                     7.05     31 December 2007
136    Ethiopia                                     7.00     31 December 2006
137    Belgium                                      6.98     31 December 2007
138    Lithuania                                    6.86     31 December 2007
139    Slovenia                                     6.82     31 December 2007
140    Hong Kong                                    6.75     31 December 2007
141    Cyprus                                       6.74     31 December 2007
142    Norway                                       6.65     31 December 2007
143    Korea, South                                 6.55     31 December 2007
144    Ireland                                      6.52     31 December 2007
145    Estonia                                      6.46     31 December 2007
146    Malaysia                                     6.41     31 December 2007
147    Austria                                      6.30     31 December 2007
148    Israel                                       6.27     31 December 2007
149    Malta                                        6.24     31 December 2007
150    Canada                                       6.10     31 December 2007
151    Libya                                        6.00     31 December 2007
152    Germany                                      5.96     31 December 2007
153    Czech Republic                               5.79     31 December 2007
154    Finland                                      5.62     31 December 2007
155    United Kingdom                               5.52     31 December 2007
156    Bahamas, The                                 5.50     31 December 2007
157    Brunei                                       5.50     31 December 2007
158    Poland                                       5.48     31 December 2006
159    Singapore                                    5.33     31 December 2007
160    Sweden                                       4.00     31 December 2004
161    Switzerland                                  3.15     31 December 2007
162    Japan                                        1.88     31 December 2007

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2209

Rank   Country                           Stock of money      Date of Information

1      European Union                     5,742,000,000,000.00
2      Japan                              4,370,000,000,000.00  31 December 2007
3      China                              2,090,000,000,000.00  31 December 2007
4      United States                      1,374,000,000,000.00  31 December 2007
5      Burma                              598,000,000,000.00  31 December 2007
6      Canada                             391,600,000,000.00  31 December 2007
7      Russia                             303,700,000,000.00  31 December 2007
8      Australia                          298,500,000,000.00  31 December 2007
9      India                              250,900,000,000.00  31 December 2007
10     Sweden                             217,100,000,000.00  31 December 2007
11     Switzerland                        213,900,000,000.00  31 December 2007
12     Denmark                            148,700,000,000.00  31 December 2007
13     Poland                             137,400,000,000.00  31 December 2007
14     Brazil                             131,100,000,000.00  31 December 2007
15     Mexico                             103,500,000,000.00  31 December 2007
16     Saudi Arabia                       102,400,000,000.00  31 December 2007
17     Korea, South                       92,590,000,000.00  31 December 2007
18     Czech Republic                     84,430,000,000.00  31 December 2007
19     Morocco                            67,420,000,000.00  31 December 2007
20     Turkey                             64,430,000,000.00  31 December 2007
21     Venezuela                          63,180,000,000.00  31 December 2007
22     Syria                              58,840,000,000.00  31 December 2006
23     South Africa                       58,490,000,000.00  31 December 2007
24     Algeria                            55,430,000,000.00  31 December 2007
25     Pakistan                           52,760,000,000.00  31 December 2007
26     Hong Kong                          51,250,000,000.00  31 December 2007
27     United Arab Emirates               49,500,000,000.00  31 December 2007
28     Malaysia                           49,410,000,000.00  31 December 2007
29     Indonesia                          47,780,000,000.00  31 December 2007
30     Iran                               46,130,000,000.00  31 December 2007
31     Singapore                          44,400,000,000.00  31 December 2007
32     Hungary                            36,780,000,000.00  31 December 2007
33     Ukraine                            35,970,000,000.00  31 December 2007
34     Argentina                          33,930,000,000.00  31 December 2007
35     Thailand                           28,620,000,000.00  31 December 2007
36     Egypt                              27,600,000,000.00  31 December 2007
37     Vietnam                            27,150,000,000.00  31 December 2007
38     Slovakia                           26,170,000,000.00  31 December 2007
39     Romania                            25,170,000,000.00  31 December 2007
40     New Zealand                        24,200,000,000.00  31 December 2007
41     Colombia                           21,810,000,000.00  31 December 2007
42     Nigeria                            21,720,000,000.00  31 December 2007
43     Philippines                        21,270,000,000.00  31 December 2007
44     Iraq                               18,810,000,000.00  31 December 2007
45     Libya                              18,040,000,000.00  31 December 2007
46     Chile                              16,600,000,000.00  31 December 2007
47     Bulgaria                           15,580,000,000.00  31 December 2007
48     Israel                             15,360,000,000.00  31 December 2006
49     Kuwait                             15,120,000,000.00  31 December 2007
50     Peru                               14,660,000,000.00  31 December 2007
51     Zimbabwe                           14,180,000,000.00  31 December 2007
52     Kazakhstan                         12,740,000,000.00  31 December 2007
53     Lithuania                          11,840,000,000.00  31 December 2007
54     Croatia                            11,610,000,000.00  31 December 2007
55     Qatar                               9,718,000,000.00  31 December 2007
56     Tunisia                             9,491,000,000.00  31 December 2007
57     Slovenia                            9,347,000,000.00  31 December 2006
58     Bangladesh                          8,444,000,000.00  31 December 2007
59     Latvia                              8,196,000,000.00  31 December 2007
60     Estonia                             7,158,000,000.00  31 December 2007
61     Jordan                              6,765,000,000.00  31 December 2007
62     Iceland                             6,640,000,000.00  31 December 2007
63     Guatemala                           6,227,000,000.00  31 December 2007
64     Kenya                               5,932,000,000.00  31 December 2007
65     Sudan                               5,549,000,000.00  31 December 2007
66     Bosnia and Herzegovina              5,130,000,000.00  31 December 2007
67     Oman                                5,044,000,000.00  31 December 2007
68     Serbia                              4,632,000,000.00  31 December 2007
69     Malta                               4,603,000,000.00  31 December 2007
70     Costa Rica                          4,504,000,000.00  31 December 2007
71     Cote d'Ivoire                       4,451,000,000.00  31 December 2007
72     Ecuador                             4,395,000,000.00  31 December 2007
73     Azerbaijan                          4,261,000,000.00  31 December 2007
74     Bahrain                             4,169,000,000.00  31 December 2007
75     Angola                              4,153,000,000.00  31 December 2007
76     Cyprus                              4,094,000,000.00  31 December 2007
77     Dominican Republic                  4,074,000,000.00  31 December 2007
78     Belarus                             4,065,000,000.00  31 December 2007
79     Ethiopia                            3,651,000,000.00  31 December 2006
80     Yemen                               3,076,000,000.00  31 December 2007
81     Panama                              3,054,000,000.00  31 December 2007
82     Bolivia                             3,032,000,000.00  31 December 2007
83     Senegal                             2,842,000,000.00  31 December 2007
84     Albania                             2,707,000,000.00  31 December 2007
85     Brunei                              2,674,000,000.00  31 December 2007
86     Trinidad and Tobago                 2,646,000,000.00  31 December 2007
87     Cameroon                            2,616,000,000.00  31 December 2007
88     Sri Lanka                           2,465,000,000.00  31 December 2007
89     Lebanon                             2,374,000,000.00  31 December 2007
90     Tanzania                            2,263,000,000.00  31 December 2007
91     Nepal                               2,184,000,000.00  31 December 2007
92     Ghana                               2,179,000,000.00  31 December 2006
93     Namibia                             2,149,000,000.00  31 December 2007
94     Uruguay                             2,145,000,000.00  31 December 2007
95     Paraguay                            1,943,000,000.00  31 December 2007
96     El Salvador                         1,802,000,000.00  31 December 2007
97     Papua New Guinea                    1,685,000,000.00  31 December 2007
98     Mauritius                           1,673,000,000.00  31 December 2007
99     Mali                                1,580,000,000.00  31 December 2007
100    Gaza Strip                          1,574,000,000.00  31 December 2007
101    West Bank                           1,574,000,000.00  31 December 2007
102    Honduras                            1,573,000,000.00  31 December 2007
103    Gabon                               1,547,000,000.00  31 December 2007
104    Armenia                             1,507,000,000.00  31 December 2007
105    Barbados                            1,478,000,000.00  31 December 2007
106    Afghanistan                         1,426,000,000.00  31 December 2007
107    Congo, Republic of the              1,400,000,000.00  31 December 2007
108    Jamaica                             1,369,000,000.00  31 December 2007
109    Uganda                              1,363,000,000.00  31 December 2007
110    San Marino                          1,326,000,000.00  31 December 2007
111    Benin                               1,324,000,000.00  31 December 2007
112    Bahamas, The                        1,274,000,000.00  31 December 2007
113    Mozambique                          1,261,000,000.00  31 December 2007
114    Macedonia                           1,173,000,000.00  31 December 2007
115    Montenegro                          1,172,000,000.00  31 December 2007
116    Madagascar                          1,161,000,000.00  31 December 2007
117    Macau                               1,160,000,000.00  31 December 2007
118    Georgia                             1,154,000,000.00  31 December 2007
119    Netherlands Antilles                1,133,000,000.00  31 December 2007
120    Burkina Faso                        1,051,000,000.00  31 December 2007
121    Fiji                                1,042,000,000.00  31 December 2007
122    Botswana                            1,026,000,000.00  31 December 2007
123    Zambia                               995,800,000.00   31 December 2007
124    Moldova                              965,000,000.00   31 December 2007
125    Kyrgyzstan                           911,100,000.00   31 December 2007
126    Chad                                 874,500,000.00   31 December 2007
127    Equatorial Guinea                    835,200,000.00   31 December 2007
128    Eritrea                              749,100,000.00   31 December 2007
129    Haiti                                704,700,000.00   31 December 2007
130    Aruba                                640,900,000.00   31 December 2007
131    Togo                                 624,900,000.00   31 December 2007
132    Niger                                604,500,000.00   31 December 2007
133    Congo, Democratic Republic of the     597,000,000.00  31 December 2007
134    Cape Verde                           574,000,000.00   31 December 2007
135    Cambodia                             513,600,000.00   31 December 2007
136    Mongolia                             504,700,000.00   31 December 2007
137    Nicaragua                            465,100,000.00   31 December 2007
138    Lesotho                              439,200,000.00   31 December 2007
139    Suriname                             416,600,000.00   31 December 2007
140    Bhutan                               381,100,000.00   31 December 2007
141    Djibouti                             380,000,000.00   31 December 2007
142    Malawi                               361,500,000.00   31 December 2007
143    Maldives                             344,100,000.00   31 December 2007
144    Seychelles                           330,800,000.00   31 December 2007
145    Laos                                 327,900,000.00   31 December 2007
146    Belize                               323,900,000.00   31 December 2007
147    Guyana                               315,200,000.00   31 December 2007
148    Guinea                               309,800,000.00   31 December 2005
149    Antigua and Barbuda                  294,800,000.00   31 December 2007
150    Saint Lucia                          264,700,000.00   31 December 2007
151    Swaziland                            244,800,000.00   31 December 2007
152    Rwanda                               233,600,000.00   31 December 2005
153    Central African Republic             218,300,000.00   31 December 2007
154    Burundi                              208,700,000.00   31 December 2007
155    Gambia, The                          186,700,000.00   31 December 2007
156    Sierra Leone                         184,600,000.00   31 December 2007
157    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines     155,500,000.00   31 December 2007
158    Grenada                              151,200,000.00   31 December 2007
159    Liberia                              145,600,000.00   31 December 2007
160    Guinea-Bissau                        142,500,000.00   31 December 2007
161    Solomon Islands                      118,300,000.00   31 December 2007
162    Vanuatu                              107,100,000.00   31 December 2007
163    Saint Kitts and Nevis                 97,310,000.00   31 December 2007
164    Tajikistan                            91,590,000.00   31 December 2006
165    Comoros                               76,680,000.00   31 December 2007
166    Timor-Leste                           74,940,000.00   31 December 2007
167    Dominica                              73,710,000.00   31 December 2007
168    Samoa                                 69,970,000.00   31 December 2007
169    Tonga                                 46,380,000.00   31 December 2007
170    Anguilla                              23,570,000.00   31 December 2007
171    Micronesia, Federated States of       22,450,000.00   31 December 2007
172    Sao Tome and Principe                 19,990,000.00   31 December 2007
173    Montserrat                            17,900,000.00   31 December 2007

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2210

Rank   Country                           Stock of quasi money  Date of Information

1      European Union                     10,930,000,000,000.00
2      United States                      10,100,000,000,000.00  31 December 2007
3      Japan                              4,783,000,000,000.00  31 December 2007
4      China                              3,437,000,000,000.00  31 December 2007
5      Canada                             1,381,000,000,000.00  31 December 2007
6      Brazil                             792,800,000,000.00  31 December 2007
7      Australia                          667,200,000,000.00  31 December 2007
8      India                              647,300,000,000.00  31 December 2007
9      Hong Kong                          578,100,000,000.00  31 December 2007
10     Korea, South                       541,700,000,000.00  31 December 2007
11     Switzerland                        450,700,000,000.00  31 December 2007
12     Russia                             292,500,000,000.00  31 December 2007
13     Turkey                             254,300,000,000.00  31 December 2007
14     Burma                              216,900,000,000.00  31 December 2007
15     Thailand                           216,600,000,000.00  31 December 2007
16     Malaysia                           187,600,000,000.00  31 December 2007
17     Mexico                             168,400,000,000.00  31 December 2007
18     Singapore                          162,200,000,000.00  31 December 2007
19     Israel                             154,300,000,000.00  31 December 2007
20     South Africa                       141,900,000,000.00  31 December 2007
21     Indonesia                          127,000,000,000.00  31 December 2007
22     New Zealand                        117,800,000,000.00  31 December 2007
23     Saudi Arabia                       109,500,000,000.00  31 December 2007
24     United Arab Emirates               104,600,000,000.00  31 December 2007
25     Egypt                              102,600,000,000.00  31 December 2007
26     Poland                             93,990,000,000.00  31 December 2007
27     Denmark                            81,640,000,000.00  31 December 2007
28     Chile                              80,420,000,000.00  31 December 2007
29     Iran                               68,710,000,000.00  31 December 2007
30     Philippines                        65,850,000,000.00  31 December 2007
31     Czech Republic                     58,770,000,000.00  31 December 2007
32     Lebanon                            57,400,000,000.00  31 December 2007
33     Kuwait                             55,200,000,000.00  31 December 2007
34     Vietnam                            51,080,000,000.00  31 December 2007
35     Sweden                             48,490,000,000.00  31 December 2007
36     Syria                              45,930,000,000.00  31 December 2006
37     Argentina                          45,920,000,000.00  31 December 2007
38     Cyprus                             43,930,000,000.00  31 December 2007
39     Hungary                            43,070,000,000.00  31 December 2007
40     Ukraine                            41,510,000,000.00  31 December 2007
41     Romania                            34,960,000,000.00  31 December 2007
42     Bangladesh                         32,400,000,000.00  31 December 2007
43     Croatia                            31,860,000,000.00  31 December 2007
44     Algeria                            28,590,000,000.00  31 December 2007
45     Colombia                           27,250,000,000.00  31 December 2007
46     Kazakhstan                         25,750,000,000.00  31 December 2007
47     Qatar                              22,600,000,000.00  31 December 2007
48     Macau                              21,910,000,000.00  31 December 2007
49     Slovakia                           21,110,000,000.00  31 December 2007
50     Peru                               19,950,000,000.00  31 December 2007
51     Nigeria                            19,070,000,000.00  31 December 2007
52     Pakistan                           18,420,000,000.00  31 December 2007
53     Bulgaria                           17,030,000,000.00  31 December 2007
54     Morocco                            16,230,000,000.00  31 December 2007
55     Jordan                             15,380,000,000.00  31 December 2007
56     Iceland                            15,050,000,000.00  31 December 2006
57     Panama                             14,260,000,000.00  31 December 2007
58     Tunisia                            13,560,000,000.00  31 December 2007
59     Slovenia                           12,690,000,000.00  31 December 2006
60     Serbia                             12,190,000,000.00  31 December 2007
61     Oman                               11,040,000,000.00  31 December 2007
62     Bahrain                            10,630,000,000.00  31 December 2007
63     Sri Lanka                          10,460,000,000.00  31 December 2007
64     Guatemala                           8,928,000,000.00  31 December 2007
65     Venezuela                           8,889,000,000.00  31 December 2007
66     Ecuador                             7,974,000,000.00  31 December 2007
67     Uruguay                             7,919,000,000.00  31 December 2007
68     Malta                               7,645,000,000.00  31 December 2007
69     Angola                              7,216,000,000.00  31 December 2007
70     Lithuania                           6,917,000,000.00  31 December 2007
71     Belarus                             6,823,000,000.00  31 December 2007
72     Mauritius                           6,759,000,000.00  31 December 2007
73     Albania                             6,433,000,000.00  31 December 2007
74     Kenya                               6,273,000,000.00  31 December 2007
75     Trinidad and Tobago                 5,707,000,000.00  31 December 2007
76     Dominican Republic                  5,631,000,000.00  31 December 2007
77     Bosnia and Herzegovina              5,597,000,000.00  31 December 2007
78     Zimbabwe                            5,349,000,000.00  31 December 2007
79     Honduras                            5,266,000,000.00  31 December 2007
80     Latvia                              5,113,000,000.00  31 December 2007
81     Nepal                               4,745,000,000.00  31 December 2007
82     Bolivia                             4,729,000,000.00  31 December 2007
83     San Marino                          4,584,000,000.00  31 December 2007
84     Jamaica                             4,540,000,000.00  31 December 2007
85     Yemen                               4,526,000,000.00  31 December 2007
86     Botswana                            4,336,000,000.00  31 December 2007
87     Bahamas, The                        4,324,000,000.00  31 December 2007
88     Brunei                              4,258,000,000.00  31 December 2007
89     Estonia                             4,253,000,000.00  31 December 2007
90     Sudan                               4,068,000,000.00  31 December 2007
91     Iraq                                3,670,000,000.00  31 December 2007
92     Ethiopia                            3,258,000,000.00  31 December 2007
93     Libya                               3,192,000,000.00  31 December 2007
94     Macedonia                           3,127,000,000.00  31 December 2007
95     Gaza Strip                          3,048,000,000.00  31 December 2007
96     West Bank                           3,048,000,000.00  31 December 2007
97     Tanzania                            2,885,000,000.00  31 December 2007
98     Costa Rica                          2,870,000,000.00  31 December 2007
99     Barbados                            2,717,000,000.00  31 December 2007
100    Azerbaijan                          2,593,000,000.00  31 December 2007
101    Cambodia                            2,309,000,000.00  31 December 2007
102    Netherlands Antilles                2,309,000,000.00  31 December 2007
103    Ghana                               2,174,000,000.00  31 December 2006
104    Cote d'Ivoire                       1,915,000,000.00  31 December 2007
105    Nicaragua                           1,802,000,000.00  31 December 2007
106    Zambia                              1,709,000,000.00  31 December 2007
107    Cameroon                            1,698,000,000.00  31 December 2007
108    Senegal                             1,579,000,000.00  31 December 2007
109    Haiti                               1,561,000,000.00  31 December 2007
110    Mongolia                            1,539,000,000.00  31 December 2007
111    Namibia                             1,493,000,000.00  31 December 2007
112    Papua New Guinea                    1,482,000,000.00  31 December 2007
113    Mozambique                          1,467,000,000.00  31 December 2007
114    Moldova                             1,449,000,000.00  31 December 2007
115    Montenegro                          1,446,000,000.00  31 December 2007
116    Georgia                             1,379,000,000.00  31 December 2007
117    Paraguay                            1,368,000,000.00  31 December 2007
118    Uganda                              1,302,000,000.00  31 December 2007
119    Fiji                                1,088,000,000.00  31 December 2007
120    Afghanistan                          958,600,000.00   31 December 2007
121    Eritrea                              932,900,000.00   31 December 2007
122    Antigua and Barbuda                  902,000,000.00   31 December 2007
123    Suriname                             824,400,000.00   31 December 2007
124    Gabon                                799,300,000.00   31 December 2007
125    Aruba                                792,900,000.00   31 December 2007
126    Armenia                              765,200,000.00   31 December 2007
127    El Salvador                          764,100,000.00   31 December 2007
128    Guyana                               728,800,000.00   31 December 2007
129    Saint Lucia                          720,900,000.00   31 December 2007
130    Laos                                 717,900,000.00   31 December 2007
131    Mali                                 697,100,000.00   31 December 2007
132    Cape Verde                           689,000,000.00   31 December 2007
133    Saint Kitts and Nevis                688,600,000.00   31 December 2007
134    Congo, Democratic Republic of the     677,900,000.00  31 December 2007
135    Burkina Faso                         663,000,000.00   31 December 2007
136    Benin                                627,200,000.00   31 December 2007
137    Madagascar                           577,400,000.00   31 December 2007
138    Belize                               549,000,000.00   31 December 2007
139    Grenada                              533,400,000.00   31 December 2007
140    Swaziland                            529,400,000.00   31 December 2007
141    Anguilla                             470,100,000.00   31 December 2007
142    Maldives                             434,900,000.00   31 December 2007
143    Vanuatu                              421,800,000.00   31 December 2007
144    Togo                                 383,900,000.00   31 December 2007
145    Kyrgyzstan                           303,700,000.00   31 December 2007
146    Djibouti                             284,100,000.00   31 December 2007
147    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines     280,200,000.00   31 December 2007
148    Dominica                             269,100,000.00   31 December 2007
149    Malawi                               250,400,000.00   31 December 2007
150    Seychelles                           249,000,000.00   31 December 2007
151    Rwanda                               227,400,000.00   31 December 2005
152    Bhutan                               220,300,000.00   31 December 2007
153    Congo, Republic of the               204,300,000.00   31 December 2007
154    Niger                                193,700,000.00   31 December 2007
155    Gambia, The                          180,400,000.00   31 December 2007
156    Sierra Leone                         177,700,000.00   31 December 2007
157    Equatorial Guinea                    174,500,000.00   31 December 2007
158    Samoa                                168,700,000.00   31 December 2007
159    Tajikistan                           161,000,000.00   31 December 2006
160    Lesotho                              160,200,000.00   31 December 2007
161    Burundi                              141,000,000.00   31 December 2007
162    Tonga                                106,800,000.00   31 December 2007
163    Micronesia, Federated States of       72,490,000.00   31 December 2007
164    Timor-Leste                           68,780,000.00   31 December 2007
165    Solomon Islands                       57,890,000.00   31 December 2007
166    Chad                                  55,230,000.00   31 December 2007
167    Liberia                               49,890,000.00   31 December 2007
168    Central African Republic              47,580,000.00   31 December 2007
169    Montserrat                            43,900,000.00   31 December 2007
170    Sao Tome and Principe                 33,500,000.00   31 December 2007
171    Comoros                               23,390,000.00   31 December 2007
172    Guinea-Bissau                         12,040,000.00   31 December 2007

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Rank code: @2211

Rank   Country                           Stock of domestic credit  Date of Information

1      European Union                     20,940,000,000,000.00  31 December 2007
2      United States                      14,150,000,000,000.00  31 December 2007
3      Japan                              9,653,000,000,000.00  31 December 2007
4      United Kingdom                     5,278,000,000,000.00  31 December 2007
5      Germany                            5,081,000,000,000.00  31 December 2007
6      China                              4,653,000,000,000.00  31 December 2007
7      France                             4,105,000,000,000.00  31 December 2007
8      Spain                              3,177,000,000,000.00  31 December 2007
9      Italy                              3,084,000,000,000.00  31 December 2007
10     Canada                             2,382,000,000,000.00  31 December 2007
11     Netherlands                        1,876,000,000,000.00  31 December 2007
12     Brazil                             1,377,000,000,000.00  31 December 2007
13     Australia                          1,312,000,000,000.00  31 December 2007
14     Korea, South                       1,061,000,000,000.00  31 December 2007
15     Burma                              887,700,000,000.00  31 December 2007
16     Switzerland                        855,400,000,000.00  31 December 2007
17     India                              769,300,000,000.00  31 December 2007
18     Ireland                            768,900,000,000.00  31 December 2007
19     Belgium                            767,700,000,000.00  31 December 2007
20     Denmark                            684,700,000,000.00  31 December 2007
21     Sweden                             630,800,000,000.00  31 December 2007
22     Austria                            599,500,000,000.00  31 December 2007
23     Portugal                           451,900,000,000.00  31 December 2007
24     Greece                             392,400,000,000.00  31 December 2007
25     Turkey                             358,100,000,000.00  31 December 2007
26     Luxembourg                         357,900,000,000.00  31 December 2007
27     Mexico                             349,100,000,000.00  31 December 2007
28     Russia                             339,100,000,000.00  31 December 2007
29     Hong Kong                          259,700,000,000.00  31 December 2007
30     South Africa                       254,900,000,000.00  31 December 2007
31     Thailand                           241,800,000,000.00  31 December 2007
32     Finland                            240,700,000,000.00  31 December 2007
33     Poland                             223,200,000,000.00  31 December 2007
34     Malaysia                           220,000,000,000.00  31 December 2007
35     New Zealand                        200,100,000,000.00  31 December 2007
36     Indonesia                          170,200,000,000.00  31 December 2007
37     United Arab Emirates               155,400,000,000.00  31 December 2007
38     Singapore                          129,200,000,000.00  31 December 2007
39     Chile                              127,100,000,000.00  31 December 2007
40     Egypt                              113,900,000,000.00  31 December 2007
41     Israel                             113,400,000,000.00  31 December 2006
42     Iran                               109,700,000,000.00  31 December 2007
43     Hungary                            109,500,000,000.00  31 December 2007
44     Czech Republic                     103,900,000,000.00  31 December 2007
45     Ukraine                            87,130,000,000.00  31 December 2007
46     Colombia                           85,340,000,000.00  31 December 2007
47     Kuwait                             78,250,000,000.00  31 December 2007
48     Argentina                          72,550,000,000.00  31 December 2007
49     Morocco                            71,900,000,000.00  31 December 2007
50     Vietnam                            68,630,000,000.00  31 December 2007
51     Saudi Arabia                       66,940,000,000.00  31 December 2007
52     Philippines                        65,660,000,000.00  31 December 2007
53     Pakistan                           65,050,000,000.00  31 December 2007
54     Romania                            58,760,000,000.00  31 December 2007
55     Cyprus                             52,090,000,000.00  31 December 2007
56     Syria                              50,920,000,000.00  31 December 2006
57     Venezuela                          50,240,000,000.00  31 December 2007
58     Iceland                            49,670,000,000.00  31 December 2006
59     Croatia                            45,700,000,000.00  31 December 2007
60     Lebanon                            45,510,000,000.00  31 December 2007
61     Kazakhstan                         43,750,000,000.00  31 December 2007
62     Slovakia                           41,760,000,000.00  31 December 2007
63     Bangladesh                         40,150,000,000.00  31 December 2007
64     Qatar                              30,520,000,000.00  31 December 2007
65     Latvia                             27,560,000,000.00  31 December 2007
66     Tunisia                            25,230,000,000.00  31 December 2007
67     Bulgaria                           25,180,000,000.00  31 December 2007
68     Lithuania                          25,050,000,000.00  31 December 2007
69     Zimbabwe                           24,910,000,000.00  31 December 2007
70     Estonia                            21,350,000,000.00  31 December 2007
71     Jordan                             19,530,000,000.00  31 December 2007
72     Peru                               17,880,000,000.00  31 December 2007
73     Panama                             17,400,000,000.00  31 December 2007
74     Nigeria                            16,150,000,000.00  31 December 2007
75     Dominican Republic                 15,920,000,000.00  31 December 2007
76     Sri Lanka                          14,820,000,000.00  31 December 2007
77     Guatemala                          13,960,000,000.00  31 December 2007
78     Oman                               13,880,000,000.00  31 December 2007
79     Serbia                             13,440,000,000.00  31 December 2007
80     Costa Rica                         12,910,000,000.00  31 December 2007
81     Belarus                            12,160,000,000.00  31 December 2007
82     Malta                              10,990,000,000.00  31 December 2007
83     Kenya                              10,430,000,000.00  31 December 2007
84     Bahrain                            10,320,000,000.00  31 December 2007
85     El Salvador                         9,729,000,000.00  31 December 2007
86     Ecuador                             8,926,000,000.00  31 December 2007
87     Bosnia and Herzegovina              8,895,000,000.00  31 December 2007
88     Sudan                               8,659,000,000.00  31 December 2007
89     Mauritius                           8,582,000,000.00  31 December 2007
90     San Marino                          7,513,000,000.00  31 December 2007
91     Bahamas, The                        7,395,000,000.00  31 December 2007
92     Albania                             7,341,000,000.00  31 December 2007
93     Ethiopia                            6,694,000,000.00  31 December 2006
94     Jamaica                             6,609,000,000.00  31 December 2007
95     Uruguay                             6,396,000,000.00  31 December 2007
96     Honduras                            6,298,000,000.00  31 December 2007
97     Azerbaijan                          5,726,000,000.00  31 December 2007
98     Nepal                               5,636,000,000.00  31 December 2007
99     Bolivia                             4,759,000,000.00  31 December 2007
100    Namibia                             4,446,000,000.00  31 December 2007
101    Cote d'Ivoire                       4,404,000,000.00  31 December 2007
102    Ghana                               4,173,000,000.00  31 December 2006
103    Nicaragua                           4,133,000,000.00  31 December 2007
104    Trinidad and Tobago                 3,721,000,000.00  31 December 2007
105    Barbados                            3,533,000,000.00  31 December 2007
106    Georgia                             3,374,000,000.00  31 December 2007
107    Montenegro                          3,083,000,000.00  31 December 2007
108    Senegal                             2,970,000,000.00  31 December 2007
109    Netherlands Antilles                2,927,000,000.00  31 December 2007
110    Macedonia                           2,924,000,000.00  31 December 2007
111    Paraguay                            2,457,000,000.00  31 December 2007
112    Brunei                              2,380,000,000.00  31 December 2007
113    Tanzania                            2,250,000,000.00  31 December 2007
114    Yemen                               2,224,000,000.00  31 December 2007
115    Zambia                              1,968,000,000.00  31 December 2007
116    Fiji                                1,948,000,000.00  31 December 2007
117    Moldova                             1,896,000,000.00  31 December 2007
118    Eritrea                             1,711,000,000.00  31 December 2007
119    Haiti                               1,537,000,000.00  31 December 2007
120    Papua New Guinea                    1,486,000,000.00  31 December 2007
121    Gaza Strip                          1,455,000,000.00  31 December 2007
122    West Bank                           1,455,000,000.00  31 December 2007
123    Angola                              1,385,000,000.00  31 December 2007
124    Aruba                               1,348,000,000.00  31 December 2007
125    Cameroon                            1,300,000,000.00  31 December 2007
126    Armenia                             1,256,000,000.00  31 December 2007
127    Saint Lucia                         1,217,000,000.00  31 December 2007
128    Mongolia                            1,191,000,000.00  31 December 2007
129    Liberia                             1,157,000,000.00  31 December 2007
130    Cambodia                            1,131,000,000.00  31 December 2007
131    Mali                                1,099,000,000.00  31 December 2007
132    Maldives                            1,080,000,000.00  31 December 2007
133    Cape Verde                          1,049,000,000.00  31 December 2007
134    Antigua and Barbuda                 1,002,000,000.00  31 December 2007
135    Uganda                               907,300,000.00   31 December 2007
136    Burkina Faso                         905,100,000.00   31 December 2007
137    Belize                               877,600,000.00   31 December 2007
138    Mozambique                           877,200,000.00   31 December 2007
139    Saint Kitts and Nevis                782,400,000.00   31 December 2007
140    Madagascar                           767,500,000.00   31 December 2007
141    Guyana                               739,300,000.00   31 December 2007
142    Seychelles                           660,200,000.00   31 December 2007
143    Suriname                             651,000,000.00   31 December 2007
144    Togo                                 590,700,000.00   31 December 2007
145    Grenada                              575,800,000.00   31 December 2007
146    Congo, Democratic Republic of the     559,500,000.00  31 December 2007
147    Kyrgyzstan                           558,300,000.00   31 December 2007
148    Benin                                520,600,000.00   31 December 2007
149    Anguilla                             447,700,000.00   31 December 2007
150    Guinea                               422,100,000.00   31 December 2005
151    Tajikistan                           417,400,000.00   31 December 2006
152    Malawi                               406,200,000.00   31 December 2007
153    Saint Vincent and the Grenadines     387,800,000.00   31 December 2007
154    Gabon                                359,800,000.00   31 December 2007
155    Burundi                              342,000,000.00   31 December 2007
156    Central African Republic             320,200,000.00   31 December 2007
157    Niger                                318,900,000.00   31 December 2007
158    Laos                                 285,800,000.00   31 December 2007
159    Vanuatu                              229,500,000.00   31 December 2007
160    Djibouti                             224,700,000.00   31 December 2007
161    Samoa                                215,100,000.00   31 December 2007
162    Rwanda                               209,200,000.00   31 December 2005
163    Swaziland                            204,100,000.00   31 December 2007
164    Dominica                             193,100,000.00   31 December 2007
165    Bhutan                               169,900,000.00   31 December 2007
166    Gambia, The                          169,900,000.00   31 December 2007
167    Tonga                                163,100,000.00   31 December 2007
168    Sierra Leone                         162,900,000.00   31 December 2007
169    Solomon Islands                      126,900,000.00   31 December 2007
170    Chad                                  82,810,000.00   31 December 2007
171    Guinea-Bissau                         46,440,000.00   31 December 2007
172    Comoros                               45,090,000.00   31 December 2007
173    Sao Tome and Principe                 31,840,000.00   31 December 2007
174    Afghanistan                           20,060,000.00   31 December 2007
175    Montserrat                             5,537,000.00   31 December 2007

 This file was last updated on 18 December, 2008




======================================================================




Appendix A - Abbreviations


ABEDA:  Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa

ACCT:  Agency for the French-Speaking Community (see International
Organization of the French-speaking World)

ACP Group:  African, Caribbean, and Pacific Group of States

AfDB:  African Development Bank

AFESD:  Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development

Air Pollution:  Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution

Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides:  Protocol to the 1979 Convention on
Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution Concerning the Control of
Emissions of Nitrogen Oxides or Their Transboundary Fluxes

Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants:  Protocol to the 1979
Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution on Persistent
Organic Pollutants

Air Pollution-Sulphur 85:  Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-
Range Transboundary Air Pollution on the Reduction of Sulphur Emissions
or Their Transboundary Fluxes by at Least 30%

Air Pollution-Sulphur 94:  Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-
Range Transboundary Air Pollution on Further Reduction of Sulphur
Emissions

Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds:  Protocol to the 1979
Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution Concerning the
Control of Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds or Their
Transboundary Fluxes

AMF:  Arab Monetary Fund

Antarctic-Environmental Protocol:  Protocol on Environmental Protection
to the Antarctic Treaty

Antarctic Marine Living Resources:  Convention on the Conservation of
Antarctic Marine Living Resources

Antarctic Seals:  Convention for the Conservation of Antarctic Seals

ANZUS:  Australia-New Zealand-United States Security Treaty

APEC:  Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation

Arabsat:  Arab Satellite Communications Organization

ARF:  ASEAN Regional Forum

ADB:  Asian Development Bank

ASEAN:  Association of Southeast Asian Nations

AU:  African Union

Autodin:  Automatic Digital Network

BA:  Baltic Assembly

bbl/day:  barrels per day

BCIE:  Central American Bank for Economic Integration

BDEAC:  Central African States Development Bank

Benelux:  Benelux Economic Union

BIMSTEC:  Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multisectoral Technical and
Economic Cooperation

Biodiversity:  Convention on Biological Diversity

BGN:  United States Board on Geographic Names

BIS:  Bank for International Settlements

BSEC:  Black Sea Economic Cooperation Zone

C:  Commonwealth

c.i.f.:  cost, insurance, and freight

CACM:  Central American Common Market

CAEU:  Council of Arab Economic Unity

CAN:  Andean Community of Nations

Caricom:  Caribbean Community and Common Market

CB:  citizen's band mobile radio communications

CBSS:  Council of the Baltic Sea States

CCC:  Customs Cooperation Council

CDB:  Caribbean Development Bank

CE:  Council of Europe

CEI:  Central European Initiative

CEMAC:  Economic and Monetary Community of Central Africa

CEPGL:  Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries

CERN:  European Organization for Nuclear Research

CEPT:  Conference Europeanne des Poste et Telecommunications

CIS:  Commonwealth of Independent States

CITES:  see Endangered Species

Climate Change:  United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change

Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol:  Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change

COCOM:  Coordinating Committee on Export Controls

Comsat:  Communications Satellite Corporation

COMESA:  Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa

CP:  Colombo Plan

CPLP:  Comunidade dos Paises de Lingua Portuguesa

CSTO:  Collective Security Treaty Organization

CTBTO:  Preparation commission for the Nuclear-Ban-Treaty Operation

CY:  calendar year

DC:  developed country

DDT:  dichloro-diphenyl-trichloro-ethane

Desertification:  United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification
in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification,
Particularly in Africa

DIA:  United States Defense Intelligence Agency

DSN:  Defense Switched Network

DST:  daylight savings time

DWT:  deadweight ton

EAC:  East African Community

EADB:  East African Development Bank

EAEC:  Eurasian Economic Community

EAPC:  Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council

EBRD:  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development

EC:  European Community

ECA:  Economic Commission for Africa

ECE:  Economic Commission for Europe

ECLAC:  Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean

ECO:  Economic Cooperation Organization

ECOSOC:  Economic and Social Council

ECOWAS:  Economic Community of West African States

ECSC:  European Coal and Steel Community

EEC:  European Economic Community

EFTA:  European Free Trade Association

EEZ:  exclusive economic zone

EIB:  European Investment Bank

EMU:  European Monetary Union

Endangered Species:  Convention on the International Trade in
Endangered Species of Wild Flora and Fauna (CITES)

Entente:  Council of the Entente

Environmental Modification:  Convention on the Prohibition of Military
or Any Other Hostile Use of Environmental Modification Techniques

ESA:  European Space Agency

ESCAP:  Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific

ESCWA:  Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia

est.:  estimate

EU:  European Union

Euratom:  European Atomic Energy Community

Eutelsat:  European Telecommunications Satellite Organization

Ex-Im:  Export-Import Bank of the United States

f.o.b.:  free on board

FAO:  Food and Agriculture Organization

FAX:  facsimile

FLS:  Front Line States

FOC:  flags of convenience

FSU:  former Soviet Union

FY:  fiscal year

FZ:  Franc Zone

G-2:  Group of 2

G-3:  Group of 3

G-5:  Group of 5

G-6:  Group of 6

G-7:  Group of 7

G-8:  Group of 8

G-9:  Group of 9

G-10:  Group of 10

G-15:  Group of 15

G-11:  Group of 11

G-24:  Group of 24

G-77:  Group of 77

GATT:  General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade; now WTO

GCC:  Gulf Cooperation Council

GCTU:  General Confederation of Trade Unions

GDP:  gross domestic product

GMT:  Greenwich Mean Time

GNP:  gross national product

GRT:  gross register ton

GSM:  global system for mobile cellular communications

GUAM:  Organization for Democracy and Economic Development; acronym for
member states - Georgia, Ukraine, Azerbaijan, Moldova

GWP:  gross world product

Hazardous Wastes:  Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary
Movements of Hazardous Wastes and Their Disposal

HF:  high-frequency

HIV/AIDS:  human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune deficiency
syndrome

IADB:  Inter-American Development Bank

IAEA:  International Atomic Energy Agency

IANA:  Internet Assigned Numbers Authority

IBRD:  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World
Bank)

ICAO:  International Civil Aviation Organization

ICC:  International Chamber of Commerce

ICCt:  International Criminal Court

ICJ:  International Court of Justice (World Court)

ICRC:  International Committee of the Red Cross

ICRM:  International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement

ICSID:  International Center for Secretariat of Investment Disputes

ICTR:  International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda

ICTY:  International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia

IDA:  International Development Association

IDB:  Islamic Development Bank

IDP:  Internally Displaced Person

IEA:  International Energy Agency

IFAD:  International Fund for Agricultural Development

IFC:  International Finance Corporation

IFRCS:  International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent
Societies

IGAD:  Inter-Governmental Authority on Development

IHO:  International Hydrographic Organization

ILO:  International Labor Organization

IMF:  International Monetary Fund

IMO:  International Maritime Organization

IMSO:  International Mobile Satellite Organization

Inmarsat:  International Maritime Satellite Organization

InOC:  Indian Ocean Commission

INSTRAW:  International Research and Training Institute for the
Advancement of Women

Intelsat:  International Telecommunications Satellite Organization

Interpol:  International Criminal Police Organization

Intersputnik:  International Organization of Space Communications

IOC:  International Olympic Committee

IOM:  International Organization for Migration

IPU:  Inter-parliamentary Union

ISO:  International Organization for Standardization

ISP:  Internet Service Provider

ITSO:  International Telecommunications Satellites Organization

ITU:  International Telecommunication Union

ITUC:  International Trade Union Confederation, the successor to ICFTU
(International Confederation of Free Trade Unions) and the WCL (World
Confederation of Labor)

kHz:  kilohertz

km:  kilometer

kW:  kilowatt

kWh:  kilowatt-hour

LAES:  Latin American Economic System

LAIA:  Latin American Integration Association

LAS:  League of Arab States

Law of the Sea:  United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (LOS)

LDC:  less developed country

LLDC:  least developed country

London Convention:  see Marine Dumping

LOS:  see Law of the Sea

m:  meter

Marecs:  Maritime European Communications Satellite

Marine Dumping:  Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by
Dumping Wastes and Other Matter

Marine Life Conservation:  Convention on Fishing and Conservation of
Living Resources of the High Seas

MARPOL:  see Ship Pollution

Medarabtel:  Middle East Telecommunications Project of the
International Telecommunications Union

Mercosur:  Southern Cone Common Market

MHz:  megahertz

MICAH:  International Civilian Support Mission in Haiti

MINURSO:  United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara

MIGA:  Multilateral Investment Geographic Agency

MINUSTAH:  United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti

MONUC:  United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic
of the Congo

NA:  not available

NAFTA:  North American Free Trade Agreement

NAM:  Nonaligned Movement

NATO:  North Atlantic Treaty Organization

NC:  Nordic Council

NEA:  Nuclear Energy Agency

NEGL:  negligible

NGA:  National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency

NIB:  Nordic Investment Bank

NIC:  newly industrializing country

NIE:  newly industrializing economy

NIS:  new independent states

nm:  nautical mile

NMT:  Nordic Mobile Telephone

NSG:  Nuclear Suppliers Group

Nuclear Test Ban:  Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapons Tests in the
Atmosphere, in Outer Space, and Under Water

NZ:  New Zealand

OAPEC:  Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries

OAS:  Organization of American States

OAU:  Organization of African Unity; see African Union

ODA:  official development assistance

OECD:  Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development

OECS:  Organization of Eastern Caribbean States

OHCHR:  Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights

OIC:  Organization of the Islamic Conference

OIF:  International Organization of the French-speaking World

ONUB:  United Nations Operation in Burundi

OOF:  other official flows

OPANAL:  Agency for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America
and the Caribbean

OPCW:  Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons

OPEC:  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries

OSCE:  Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe

Ozone Layer Protection:  Montreal Protocol on Substances That Deplete
the Ozone Layer

PCA:  Permanent Court of Arbitration

PFP:  Partnership for Peace

PIF:  Pacific Islands Forum

PPP:  purchasing power parity

Ramsar:  see Wetlands

RG:  Rio Group

SAARC:  South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation

SACU:  Southern African Customs Union

SACEP:  South Asia Co-opeative Environment Programme

SADC:  Southern African Development Community

SCO:  Shanghai Cooperation Organization

SAFE:  South African Far East Cable

SECI:  Southeast European Cooperative Initiative

SHF:  super-high-frequency

Ship Pollution:  Protocol of 1978 Relating to the International
Convention for the Prevention of Pollution From Ships, 1973 (MARPOL)

Sparteca:  South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation
Agreement

SPC:  Secretariat of the Pacific Communities

SPF:  South Pacific Forum

sq km:  square kilometer

sq mi:  square mile

TAT:  Trans-Atlantic Telephone

TEU:  Twenty-Foot Equivalent Unit

Tropical Timber 83:  International Tropical Timber Agreement, 1983

Tropical Timber 94:  International Tropical Timber Agreement, 1994

UAE:  United Arab Emirates

UDEAC:  Central African Customs and Economic Union

UHF:  ultra-high-frequency

UK:  United Kingdom

UMA:  Arab Maghreb Union

UN:  United Nations

UNAMSIL:  United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone

UNCLOS:  United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, also know as
LOS

UNCTAD:  United Nations Conference on Trade and Development

UNDCP:  United Nations Drug Control Program

UNDOF:  United Nations Disengagement Observer Force

UNDP:  United Nations Development Program

UNEP:  United Nations Environment Program

UNESCO:  United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural
Organization

UNFICYP:  United Nations Peace-keeping Force in Cyprus

UNFPA:  United Nations Population Fund

UNHCR:  United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees

UNICEF:  United Nations Children's Fund

UNICRI:  United Nations Interregional Crime and Justice Research
Institute

UNIDIR:  United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research

UNIDO:  United Nations Industrial Development Organization

UNIFIL:  United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon

UNITAR:  United Nations Institute for Training and Research

UNMEE:  United Nations Mission in Ethiopia and Eritrea

UNMIK:  United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo

UNMIL:  United Nations Mission in Liberia

UNMIT:  United Nations Integrated Mission in Timor-Leste

UNMOGIP:  United Nations Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan

UNMOVIC:  United Nations Monitoring, Verification, and Inspection
Commission

UNOCI:  United Nations Operation in Cote d'Ivoire

UNOMIG:  United Nations Observer Mission in Georgia

UNOPS:  United Nations Office of Project Services

UNRISD:  United Nations Research Institute for Social Development

UNRWA:  United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees
in the Near East

UNSC:  United Nations Security Council

UNSSC:  Untied Nations System Staff College

UNTSO:  United Nations Truce Supervision Organization

UNU:  United Nations University

UNWTO:  World Tourism Organization

UPU:  Universal Postal Union

US:  United States

USSR:  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (Soviet Union); used for
information dated before 25 December 1991

UTC:  Coordinated Universal Time

UV:  ultra violet

VHF:  very-high-frequency

VSAT:  very small aperture terminal

WADB:  West African Development Bank

WAEMU:  West African Economic and Monetary Union

WCL:  World Confederation of Labor

WCO:  World Customs Organization

Wetlands:  Convention on Wetlands of International Importance
Especially As Waterfowl Habitat

WEU:  Western European Union

WFP:  World Food Program

WFTU:  World Federation of Trade Unions

Whaling:  International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling

WHO:  World Health Organization

WIPO:  World Intellectual Property Organization

WMO:  World Meteorological Organization

WP:  Warsaw Pact

WTO:  World Trade Organization

ZC:  Zangger Committee



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008



=====================================================================



Appendix B - International Organizations and Groups


advanced developing countries:  another term for those less developed
countries (LDCs) with particularly rapid industrial development; see
newly industrializing economies (NIEs)

advanced economies:  a term used by the International Monetary FUND
(IMF) for the top group in its hierarchy of advanced economies,
countries in transition, and developing countries; it includes the
following 28 advanced economies: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada,
Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Iceland, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Luxembourg, Netherlands, NZ, Norway,
Portugal, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, UK, US; note -
this group would presumably also cover the following seven smaller
countries of Andorra, Bermuda, Faroe Islands, Holy See, Liechtenstein,
Monaco, and San Marino that are included in the more comprehensive
group of "developed countries"

African Development Bank Group (AfDB):  note - regional multilateral
development finance institution temporarily located in Tunis, Tunisia;
the Bank Group consists of the African Development Bank, the African
Development Fund, and the Nigerian Trust Fund

established - 10 September 1964

aim - to promote economic development and social progress

regional members - (53) Algeria, Angola, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso,
Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros,
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Cote d'Ivoire,
Djibouti, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon, The
Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya,
Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Morocco, Mozambique,
Namibia, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal,
Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, South Africa, Sudan, Swaziland,
Tanzania, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Zambia, Zimbabwe

nonregional members - (24) Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada,
China, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, South
Korea, Kuwait, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Saudi Arabia, Spain,
Sweden, Switzerland, UK, US

African Union (AU):  note - replaces Organization of African Unity
(OAU)

established - 8 July 2001

aim - to achieve greater unity among African States; to defend states'
integrity and independence; to accelerate political, social, and
economic integration; to encourage international cooperation; to
promote democratic principles and institutions

members - (53) Algeria, Angola, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros,
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Cote d'Ivoire,
Djibouti, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon, The
Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya,
Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia,
Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic (Western
Sahara), Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone,
Somalia, South Africa, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tunisia,
Uganda, Zambia, Zimbabwe

African, Caribbean, and Pacific Group of States (ACP Group):
established - 6 June 1975

aim - to manage their preferential economic and aid relationship with
the EU

members - (79) Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados,
Belize, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde,
Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the
Congo, Republic of the Congo, Cook Islands, Cote d'Ivoire, Cuba,
Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-
Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica, Kenya, Kiribati, Lesotho, Liberia,
Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius,
Federated States of Micronesia, Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, Niger,
Nigeria, Niue, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis,
Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Sao Tome and
Principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, Somalia,
South Africa, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Tanzania, Timor-Leste, Togo,
Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tuvalu, Uganda, Vanuatu, Zambia, Zimbabwe

Agency for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the
Caribbean (OPANAL):  note - acronym from Organismo para la Proscripcion
de las Armas Nucleares en la America Latina y el Caribe (OPANAL)

established - 14 February 1967 under the Treaty of Tlatelolco;
effective - 25 April 1969 on the 11th ratification

aim - to encourage the peaceful uses of atomic energy and prohibit
nuclear weapons

members - (33) Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, The Bahamas, Barbados,
Belize, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominica,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Grenada, Guatemala, Guyana,
Haiti, Honduras, Jamaica, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru,
Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines,
Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago, Uruguay, Venezuela

Andean Community of Nations (CAN):  note - formerly known as the Andean
Group (AG) and the Andean Common Market (Ancom)

established - 26 May 1969; present name established 1 October 1992;
effective - 16 October 1969

aim - to promote harmonious development through economic integration

members - (4) Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru

associate members - (5) Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Paraguay, Uruguay

observers - (2) Mexico, Panama

Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (ABEDA):  note - also
known as Banque Arabe de Developpement Economique en Afrique (BADEA)

established - 18 February 1974; effective - 16 September 1974

aim - to promote economic development

members - (17 plus the Palestine Liberation Organization) Algeria,
Bahrain, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Mauritania,
Morocco, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Syria, Tunisia, UAE,
Palestine Liberation Organization; note - these are all the members of
the Arab League excluding Comoros, Djibouti, Somalia, Yemen

Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development (AFESD):  established -
16 May 1968

aim - to promote economic and social development

members - (20 plus the Palestine Liberation Organization) Algeria,
Bahrain, Djibouti, Egypt, Iraq (suspended 1993), Jordan, Kuwait,
Lebanon, Libya, Mauritania, Morocco, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Somalia
(suspended 1993), Sudan, Syria, Tunisia, UAE, Yemen, Palestine
Liberation Organization

Arab Maghreb Union (AMU):  established - 17 February 1989

aim - to promote cooperation and integration among the Arab states of
northern Africa

members - (5) Algeria, Libya, Mauritania, Morocco, Tunisia

Arab Monetary Fund (AMF):  established - 27 April 1976; effective - 2
February 1977

aim - to promote Arab cooperation, development, and integration in
monetary and economic affairs

members - (21 plus the Palestine Liberation Organization) Algeria,
Bahrain, Comoros, Djibouti, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon,
Libya, Mauritania, Morocco, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Sudan,
Syria, Tunisia, UAE, Yemen, Palestine Liberation Organization

Arctic Council:  established - 18 September 1996

aim - to address the common concerns and challenges faced by Arctic
governments and the people of the Arctic; to protect the Arctic
environment

members - (8) Canada, Denmark (Greenland, Faroe Islands), Finland,
Iceland, Norway, Russia, Sweden, US

permanent participants - (6) Aleut International Association, Arctic
Athabaskan Council, Gwich'in Council International, Inuit Circumpolar
Conference, Russian Association of Indigenous People of the North,
Saami Council

observers - (8) China, France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Poland,
Spain, UK

ASEAN Regional Forum (ARF):  established - 25 July 1994

aim - to foster constructive dialogue and consultation on political and
security issues of common interest and concern

members - (26) Australia, Bangladesh, Brunei, Burma, Cambodia, Canada,
China, EU, India, Indonesia, Japan, North Korea, South Korea, Laos,
Malaysia, Mongolia, NZ, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Philippines,
Russia, Singapore, Thailand, Timor-Leste, US, Vietnam

Asian Development Bank (ADB):  established - 19 December 1966

aim - to promote regional economic cooperation

members - (48) Afghanistan, Armenia, Australia, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh,
Bhutan, Brunei, Burma, Cambodia, China, Cook Islands, Fiji, Georgia,
Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kiribati, South Korea,
Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Malaysia, Maldives, Marshall Islands, Federated
States of Micronesia, Mongolia, Nauru, Nepal, NZ, Pakistan, Palau,
Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Samoa, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Sri
Lanka, Taiwan, Tajikistan, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Tonga, Turkmenistan,
Tuvalu, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Vietnam

nonregional members - (19) Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland,
France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway,
Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, UK, US

Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC):  established - 7 November
1989

aim - to promote trade and investment in the Pacific basin

members - (21) Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile, China, Hong Kong,
Indonesia, Japan, South Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, NZ, Papua New Guinea,
Peru, Philippines, Russia, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand, US, Vietnam

observers - (3) Association of Southeast Asian Nations, Pacific
Economic Cooperation Council, Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat

Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN):  established - 8 August
1967

aim - to encourage regional economic, social, and cultural cooperation
among the non-Communist countries of Southeast Asia

members - (10) Brunei, Burma, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia,
Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam

dialogue partners - (11) Australia, Canada, China, EU, India, Japan,
South Korea, NZ, Russia, US, UNDP; note - ASEAN promotes cooperation
with Pakistan in some areas of mutual interest

observers - (1) Papua New Guinea

Australia Group (AG):  established - June 1985

aim - to consult on and coordinate export controls related to chemical
and biological weapons

members - (41) Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria,
Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, European
Commission, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland,
Ireland, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Malta, Netherlands, NZ, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia,
Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, UK, US

Australia-New Zealand-United States Security Treaty (ANZUS):
established - 1 September 1951; effective - 29 April 1952

aim - to implement a trilateral mutual security agreement, although the
US suspended security obligations to NZ on 11 August 1986; Australia
and the US continue to hold annual meetings

members - (3) Australia, NZ, US

Baltic Assembly (BA):  established - 12 May 1990

aim - to thoroughly discuss various cooperation issues between Baltic
states

members - (3) Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania

Bank for International Settlements (BIS):  established - 20 January
1930; effective - 17 March 1930

aim - to promote cooperation among central banks in international
financial settlements

members - (55) Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia
and Herzegovina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, China, Croatia, Czech
Republic, Denmark, European Central Bank, Estonia, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Latvia, Lithuania,
Macedonia, Malaysia, Mexico, Netherlands, NZ, Norway, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Slovakia,
Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey,
UK, US; note - Serbia and Montenegro have separate central banks; their
links with BIS are currently under review

Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic
Cooperation (BIMSTEC):  established - June 1997

aim - to foster socio-economic cooperation among members

members - (7) Bangladesh, Bhutan, Burma, India, Nepal, Sri Lanka,
Thailand

Benelux Economic Union (Benelux):  note - acronym from Belgium,
Netherlands, and Luxembourg

established - 3 February 1958; effective - 1 November 1960

aim - to develop closer economic cooperation and integration

members - (3) Belgium, Luxembourg, Netherlands

Big Seven:  note - membership is the same as the Group of 7

established - 1975

aim - to discuss and coordinate major economic policies

members - (7) Big Six (Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, UK) plus
the US

Black Sea Economic Cooperation Zone (BSEC):  established - 25 June 1992

aim - to enhance regional stability through economic cooperation

members - (12) Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, Georgia, Greece,
Moldova, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Turkey, Ukraine; note - Macedonia is
in the process of joining

observers - (17) Austria, Belarus, Black Sea Commission, Commission of
the EC, Croatia, Czech Republic, Egypt, Energy Charter Secretariat,
France, Germany, International Black Sea Club, Israel, Italy, Poland,
Slovakia, Tunisia, US; note - Bosnia and Herzegovina and Slovenia have
applied for observer status

Caribbean Community and Common Market (Caricom):  established - 4 July
1973; effective - 1 August 1973

aim - to promote economic integration and development, especially among
the less developed countries

members - (15) Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize,
Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica, Montserrat, Saint Kitts and
Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Suriname,
Trinidad and Tobago

associate members - (5) Anguilla, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands,
Cayman Islands, Turks and Caicos Islands

observers - (7) Aruba, Colombia, Dominican Republic, Mexico,
Netherlands Antilles, Puerto Rico, Venezuela

Caribbean Development Bank (CDB):  established - 18 October 1969;
effective - 26 January 1970

aim - to promote economic development and cooperation

regional members - (21) Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas,
Barbados, Belize, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Colombia,
Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica, Mexico, Montserrat, Saint
Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines,
Trinidad and Tobago, Turks and Caicos Islands, Venezuela

nonregional members - (5) Canada, China, Germany, Italy, UK

Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC):  see Economic and
Monetary Community of Central Africa (CEMAC)

Central African States Development Bank (BDEAC):  note - acronym from
Banque de Developpement des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale

established - 3 December 1975

aim - to provide loans for economic development

members - (10) African Development Bank (AfDB), Cameroon, Central
African States Bank (BEAC), Central African Republic, Chad, Republic of
the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, France, Gabon, Kuwait

Central American Bank for Economic Integration (BCIE):  note - acronym
from Banco Centroamericano de Integracion Economico

established - 13 December 1960 signature of Articles of Agreement; 31
May 1961 began operations

aim - to promote economic integration and development

members - (5) Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua

nonregional members - (7) Argentina, Colombia, Dominican Republic,
Mexico, Panama, Spain, Taiwan

Central American Common Market (CACM):  established - 13 December 1960,
collapsed in 1969, reinstated in 1991

aim - to promote establishment of a Central American Common Market

members - (5) Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua;
note - Panama, although not a member, pursues full regional cooperation

Central European Initiative (CEI):  note - evolved from the
Quadrilateral Initiative and the Hexagonal Initiative

established - 11 November 1989 as the Quadrilateral Initiative, 27 July
1991 became the Hexagonal Initiative, July 1992 its present name was
adopted

aim - to form an economic and political cooperation group for the
region between the Adriatic and the Baltic Seas

members - (18) Albania, Austria, Belarus, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Italy, Macedonia, Moldova,
Montenegro, Poland, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Ukraine

centrally planned economies:  a term applied mainly to the
traditionally Communist states that looked to the former USSR for
leadership; most are now evolving toward more democratic and market-
oriented systems; also known formerly as the Second World or as the
Communist countries; through the 1980s, this group included Albania,
Bulgaria, Cambodia, China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic
Republic, Hungary, North Korea, Laos, Mongolia, Montenegro, Poland,
Romania, Serbia, USSR, Vietnam

Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO):  established - 7
October 2002

aim - to coordinate military and political cooperation, to develop
multilateral structures and mechanisms of cooperation for ensuring
national security of the member states

members - (7) Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia,
Tajikistan, Uzbekistan

Colombo Plan (CP):  established - May 1950 proposal was adopted; 1 July
1951 commenced full operations

aim - to promote economic and social development in Asia and the
Pacific

members - (25) Afghanistan, Australia, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Burma, Fiji,
India, Indonesia, Iran, Japan, South Korea, Laos, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mongolia, Nepal, NZ, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Philippines,
Singapore, Sri Lanka, Thailand, US, Vietnam

Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA):  note -
formerly known as Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern
Africa (PTA)

established - 5 November 1993

aim - recognizing, promoting and protecting fundamental human rights,
commitment to the principles of liberty and rule of law, maintaining
peace and stability through the promotion and strengthening of good
neighborliness, commitment to peaceful settlement of disputes among
member states

members - (19) Burundi, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo,
Djibouti, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Kenya, Libya, Madagascar, Malawi,
Mauritius, Rwanda, Seychelles, Sudan, Swaziland, Uganda, Zambia,
Zimbabwe

Commonwealth (C):  note - also known as Commonwealth of Nations

established - 31 December 1931

aim - to foster multinational cooperation and assistance, as a
voluntary association that evolved from the British Empire

members - (53) Antigua and Barbuda, Australia, The Bahamas, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Belize, Botswana, Brunei, Cameroon, Canada, Cyprus, Dominica,
Fiji (suspended), The Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guyana, India, Jamaica,
Kenya, Kiribati, Lesotho, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Malta, Mauritius,
Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, NZ, Nigeria, Pakistan (reinstated 2004),
Papua New Guinea, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and
the Grenadines, Samoa, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon
Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Swaziland, Tanzania, Tonga, Trinidad
and Tobago, Tuvalu, Uganda, UK, Vanuatu, Zambia; note - on 7 December
2003 Zimbabwe withdrew its membership from the Commonwealth

Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS):  established - 8 December
1991; effective - 21 December 1991

aim - to coordinate intercommonwealth relations and to provide a
mechanism for the orderly dissolution of the USSR

members - (12) Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan,
Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine,
Uzbekistan

Communist countries:  traditionally the Marxist-Leninist states with
authoritarian governments and command economies based on the Soviet
model; most of the original and the successor states are no longer
Communist; see centrally planned economies

Comuinidade dos Paises de Lingua Portuguesa (CPLP):  established - 1996

aim - to establish a forum for friendship among Portuguese-speaking
nations where Portuguese is an official language

members - (8) Angola, Brazil, Cape Verde, Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique,
Portugal, Sao Tome and Principe, Timor-Leste

associate observers - (3) Equatorial Guinea, Mauritius, Senegal

Coordinating Committee on Export Controls (COCOM):  established in 1949
to control the export of strategic products and technical data from
member countries to proscribed destinations; members were: Australia,
Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Japan,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, UK, US;
abolished 31 March 1994; COCOM members established a new organization,
the Wassenaar Arrangement, with expanded membership on 12 July 1996
that focuses on nonproliferation export controls as opposed to East-
West control of advanced technology

Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CEMA):  note - also known as
CMEA or Comecon

established 25 January 1949 to promote the development of socialist
economies and abolished 1 January 1991; members included Afghanistan
(observer), Albania (had not participated since 1961 break with USSR),
Angola (observer), Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Ethiopia (observer),
GDR, Hungary, Laos (observer), Mongolia, Mozambique (observer),
Nicaragua (observer), Poland, Romania, USSR, Vietnam, Yemen (observer),
Yugoslavia (associate)

Council of Arab Economic Unity (CAEU):  established - 3 June 1957;
effective - 30 May 1964

aim - to promote economic integration among Arab nations

members - (10 plus the Palestine Liberation Organization) Egypt, Iraq,
Jordan, Kuwait, Libya, Mauritania, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, Yemen,
Palestine Liberation Organization

Council of Europe (CE):  established - 5 May 1949; effective - 3 August
1949

aim - to promote increased unity and quality of life in Europe

members - (47) Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belgium,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary,
Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway,
Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia,
Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, UK

observers - (5) Canada, Holy See, Japan, Mexico, US

Council of the Baltic Sea States (CBSS):  established - 6 March 1992

aim - to promote cooperation among the Baltic Sea states in the areas
of aid to new democratic institutions, economic development,
humanitarian aid, energy and the environment, cultural programs and
education, and transportation and communication

members - (12) Denmark, Estonia, EC, Finland, Germany, Iceland, Latvia,
Lithuania, Norway, Poland, Russia, Sweden

observers - (7) France, Italy, Netherlands, Slovakia, Ukraine, UK, US

Council of the Entente (Entente):  established - 29 May 1959

aim - to promote economic, social, and political coordination

members - (5) Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'Ivoire, Niger, Togo

countries in transition:  a term used by the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) for the middle group in its hierarchy of advanced economies,
countries in transition, and developing countries; IMF statistics
include the following 28 countries in transition: Albania, Armenia,
Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech
Republic, Estonia, Georgia, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia,
Lithuania, Macedonia, Moldova, Mongolia, Montenegro, Poland, Romania,
Russia, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine,
Uzbekistan; note - this group is identical to the group traditionally
referred to as the "former USSR/Eastern Europe" except for the addition
of Mongolia

Customs Cooperation Council (CCC):  note - see World Customs
Organization (WCO)

developed countries (DCs):  the top group in the hierarchy of developed
countries (DCs), former USSR/Eastern Europe (former USSR/EE), and less
developed countries (LDCs); includes the market-oriented economies of
the mainly democratic nations in the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development (OECD), Bermuda, Israel, South Africa, and
the European ministates; also known as the First World, high-income
countries, the North, industrial countries; generally have a per capita
GDP in excess of $10,000 although four OECD countries and South Africa
have figures well under $10,000 and two of the excluded OPEC countries
have figures of more than $10,000; the 34 DCs are: Andorra, Australia,
Austria, Belgium, Bermuda, Canada, Denmark, Faroe Islands, Finland,
France, Germany, Greece, Holy See, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Netherlands, NZ,
Norway, Portugal, San Marino, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland,
Turkey, UK, US; note - similar to the new International Monetary Fund
(IMF) term "advanced economies" that adds Hong Kong, South Korea,
Singapore, and Taiwan but drops Malta, Mexico, South Africa, and Turkey

developing countries:  a term used by the International Monetary Fund
(IMF) for the bottom group in its hierarchy of advanced economies,
countries in transition, and developing countries; IMF statistics
include the following 126 developing countries: Afghanistan, Algeria,
Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Aruba, The Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central
African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Democratic
Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Costa Rica, Cote
d'Ivoire, Cyprus, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, The
Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana,
Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya,
Kiribati, Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Madagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Federated States of Micronesia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands Antilles, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar,
Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines, Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Sri
Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syria, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, UAE, Uganda, Uruguay, Vanuatu,
Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe; note - this category would
presumably also cover the following 46 other countries that are
traditionally included in the more comprehensive group of "less
developed countries": American Samoa, Anguilla, British Virgin Islands,
Brunei, Cayman Islands, Christmas Island, Cocos Islands, Cook Islands,
Cuba, Eritrea, Falkland Islands, French Guiana, French Polynesia, Gaza
Strip, Gibraltar, Greenland, Grenada, Guadeloupe, Guam, Guernsey, Isle
of Man, Jersey, North Korea, Macau, Martinique, Mayotte, Montserrat,
Nauru, New Caledonia, Niue, Norfolk Island, Northern Mariana Islands,
Palau, Pitcairn Islands, Puerto Rico, Reunion, Saint Helena, Saint
Pierre and Miquelon, Tokelau, Tonga, Turks and Caicos Islands, Tuvalu,
Virgin Islands, Wallis and Futuna, West Bank, Western Sahara

Developing Eight (D-8):  established - 15 June 1997

aim - to improve developing countries' positions in the world economy,
diversify and create new opportunities in trade relations, enhance
participation in decision-making at the international level, provide
better standards of living

member - (8) Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Iran, Malaysia, Nigeria,
Pakistan, Turkey

East African Community (EAC):  note - originally established in 1967,
it was disbanded in 1977

established - January 2001

aim - to establish a political and economic union among the countries

members - (5) Burundi, Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania, Uganda

East African Development Bank (EADB):  established - 6 June 1967;
effective - 1 December 1967

aim - to promote economic development

members - (4) Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania, Uganda

East Asia Summit (EAS):  established - 14 December 2005

aim - to promote cooperation in political and security issues; to
promote development, financial stability, energy security, economic
integration and growth; to eradicate poverty and narrow the development
gap in East Asia, and to promote deeper cultural understanding

members - (16) Australia, Brunei, Burma, Cambodia, China, India,
Indonesia, Japan, South Korea, Laos, Malaysia, NZ, Philippines,
Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam

Economic and Monetary Community of Central Africa (CEMAC):  note - was
formerly the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC)

established - 8 December 1964; effective - 1 January 1966

aim - to promote the establishment of a Central African Common Market

members - (6) Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Republic of the
Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon

Economic and Monetary Union (EMU):  note - an integral part of the
European Union; also known as the European Economic and Monetary Union

established - 1-2 December 1969 (proposed at summit conference of heads
of government; 7 February 1992 (Maastricht Treaty signed)

aim - to promote a single market by creating a single currency, the
euro; timetable - 2 May 1998: European exchange rates fixed for 1
January 1999; 1 January 1999: all banks and stock exchanges begin using
euros; 1 January 2002: the euro goes into circulation; 1 July 2002
local currencies no longer accepted

members - (15) Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Finland, France, Germany,
Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Portugal,
Slovenia, Spain

Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC):  established - 26 June 1945;
effective - 24 October 1945

aim - to coordinate the economic and social work of the UN; includes
five regional commissions (Economic Commission for Africa, Economic
Commission for Europe, Economic Commission for Latin America and the
Caribbean, Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific,
Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia) and nine functional
commissions (Commission for Social Development, Commission on Human
Rights, Commission on Narcotic Drugs, Commission on the Status of
Women, Commission on Population and Development, Statistical
Commission, Commission on Science and Technology for Development,
Commission on Sustainable Development, and Commission on Crime
Prevention and Criminal Justice)

members - (54) selected on a rotating basis from all regions

Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL):  note -
acronym from Communaute Economique des Pays des Grands Lacs

established - 20 September 1976

aim - to promote regional economic cooperation and integration

members - (3) Burundi, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Rwanda; note -
organization collapsed because of fighting in 1998; reactivated in 2006

Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS):  established - 28
May 1975

aim - to promote regional economic cooperation

members - (15) Benin, Burkina Faso, Cape Verde, Cote d'Ivoire, The
Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Niger, Nigeria,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Togo

Economic Cooperation Organization (ECO):  established - 27-29 January
1985

aim - to promote regional cooperation in trade, transportation,
communications, tourism, cultural affairs, and economic development

members - (10) Afghanistan, Azerbaijan, Iran, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan,
Pakistan, Tajikistan, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan

Eurasian Economic Community (EAEC or EurasEC):  note - merged with
Central Asian Cooperation Organization (CACO) in 2005

established - May 2001

aim - to create a common economic and energy policy

members - (6) Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Tajikistan,
Uzbekistan

observers - (3) Armenia, Moldova, Ukraine

Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council (EAPC):  note - began as the North
Atlantic Cooperation Council (NACC); an extension of NATO

established - 8 November 1991; effective - 20 December 1991

aim - to discuss cooperation on mutual political and security issues

members - (50) Albania, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary,
Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway,
Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain,
Sweden, Switzerland, Tajikistan, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, UK, US,
Uzbekistan

European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD):  established -
8-9 January 1990 (proposals made); 15 April 1991 (bank inaugurated)

aim - to facilitate the transition of seven centrally planned economies
in Europe (Bulgaria, former Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Romania,
former USSR, and former Yugoslavia) to market economies by committing
60% of its loans to privatization

members - (63) Albania, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan,
Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Egypt, EC, European Investment Bank
(EIB), Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary,
Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, South Korea,
Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia,
Malta, Mexico, Moldova, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Netherlands, NZ,
Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Tajikistan, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Ukraine,
UK, US, Uzbekistan

European Community (or European Communities, EC):  established 8 April
1965 to integrate the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom), the
European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC), the European Economic
Community (EEC or Common Market), and to establish a completely
integrated common market and an eventual federation of Europe; merged
into the European Union (EU) on 7 February 1992; member states at the
time of merger were Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland,
Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, UK

European Free Trade Association (EFTA):  established - 4 January 1960;
effective - 3 May 1960

aim - to promote expansion of free trade

members - (4) Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Switzerland

European Investment Bank (EIB):  established - 25 March 1957; effective
- 1 January 1958

aim - to promote economic development of the EU and its predecessors,
the EEC and the EC

members - (27) Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland,
Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, UK

European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN):  note - acronym
retained from the predecessor organization Conseil Europeenne pour la
Recherche Nucleaire

established - 1 July 1953; effective - 29 September 1954

aim - to foster nuclear research for peaceful purposes only

members - (20) Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Netherlands, Norway,
Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, UK

observers - (8) EC, India, Israel, Japan, Russia, Turkey, United
Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), US

European Space Agency (ESA):  established - 31 May 1975

aim - to promote peaceful cooperation in space research and technology

members - (17) Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany,
Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal,
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, UK

cooperating states - (5) Canada, Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland,
Romania

European Union (EU):  note - see European Union entry at the end of the
"country" listings

First World:  another term for countries with advanced, industrialized
economies; this term is fading from use; see developed countries (DCs)

Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO):  established - 16 October 1945

aim - to raise living standards and increase availability of
agricultural products; a UN specialized agency

members - (192) includes all UN member countries except Brunei,
Liechtenstein, and Singapore (189 total); plus Cook Islands, EC, Faroe
Islands, and Niue

former Soviet Union (FSU):  former term often used to identify as a
group the successor nations to the Soviet Union or USSR; this group of
15 countries consists of: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Estonia,
Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Russia,
Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, Uzbekistan

former USSR/Eastern Europe (former USSR/EE):  the middle group in the
hierarchy of developed countries (DCs), former USSR/Eastern Europe
(former USSR/EE), and less developed countries (LDCs); these countries
are in political and economic transition and may well be grouped
differently in the near future; this group of 27 countries consists of:
Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Estonia, Georgia, Hungary,
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Macedonia, Moldova, Poland,
Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine,
Uzbekistan, Yugoslavia; this group is identical to the IMF group
"countries in transition" except for the IMF's inclusion of Mongolia

Four Dragons:  the four small Asian less developed countries (LDCs)
that have experienced unusually rapid economic growth; also known as
the Four Tigers; this group consists of Hong Kong, South Korea,
Singapore, Taiwan; these countries are included in the IMF's "advanced
economies" group

Franc Zone (FZ):  note - also known as Conference des Ministres des
Finances des Pays de la Zone Franc

established - 1964

aim - to form a monetary union among countries whose currencies were
linked to the French franc

members - (16) Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic,
Chad, Comoros, Republic of the Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, Equatorial Guinea,
France, Gabon, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo

Front Line States (FLS):  established to achieve black majority rule in
South Africa; has since gone out of existence; members included Angola,
Botswana, Mozambique, Namibia, Tanzania, Zambia, Zimbabwe

General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT):  see the World Trade
Organization (WTO)

General Confederation of Trade Unions (GCTU):  established - 16 April
1992

aim - to consolidate trade union actions to protect citizens' social
and labor rights and interests, to help secure trade unions' rights and
guarantees, and to strengthen international trade union solidarity

members - (11) Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan,
Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Ukraine, Uzbekistan

Group of 2 (G-2):  informal term that came into use about 1986; to
facilitate bilateral economic cooperation between the two most powerful
economic giants; members were Japan, US

Group of 3 (G-3):  established - September 1990

aim - mechanism for policy coordination

members - (2) Colombia, Mexico; note - Panama shows interest in joining

Group of 5 (G-5):  established - 22 September 1985

aim - to coordinate the economic policies of five major noncommunist
economic powers

members - (5) France, Germany, Japan, UK, US

Group of 6 (G-6):  also known as Groupe des Six Sur le Desarmement (not
to be confused with the Big Six) was established in 22 May 1984 with
the aim of achieving nuclear disarmament; its members were Argentina,
Greece, India, Mexico, Sweden, Tanzania

Group of 7 (G-7):  note - membership is the same as the Big Seven

established - 22 September 1985

aim - to facilitate economic cooperation among the seven major
noncommunist economic powers

members - (7) Group of 5 (France, Germany, Japan, UK, US) plus Canada
and Italy

Group of 8 (G-8):  established - October 1975

aim - to facilitate economic cooperation among the developed countries
(DCs) that participated in the Conference on International Economic
Cooperation (CIEC), held in several sessions between December 1975 and
3 June 1977

members - (8) Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Russia, UK, US

Group of 9 (G-9):  established - NA

aim - to discuss matters of mutual interest on an informal basis

members - (9) Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Denmark, Finland, Hungary,
Romania, Serbia, Sweden

Group of 10 (G-10):  note - also known as the Paris Club; includes the
wealthiest members of the IMF who provide most of the money to be
loaned and act as the informal steering committee; name persists
despite increased membership

established - October 1962

aim - to coordinate credit policy

members - (11) Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan,
Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland, UK, US

observers - (4) BIS, EU, IMF, OECD

Group of 11 (G-11):  note - also known as the Cartagena Group

established in 21-22 June 1984, in Cartagena, Colombia, aim was to
provide a forum for largest debtor nations in Latin America; members
were: Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay, Venezuela

Group of 15 (G-15):  note - byproduct of the Nonaligned Movement; name
persists despite increased membership

established - September 1989

aim - to promote economic cooperation among developing nations; to act
as the main political organ for the Nonaligned Movement

members - (18) Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Egypt, India,
Indonesia, Iran, Jamaica, Kenya, Malaysia, Mexico, Nigeria, Peru,
Senegal, Sri Lanka, Venezuela, Zimbabwe

Group of 24 (G-24):  established - 1 August 1989

aim - to promote the interests of developing countries in Africa, Asia,
and Latin America within the IMF

members - (24) Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Democratic
Republic of the Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana,
Guatemala, India, Iran, Lebanon, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, Peru,
Philippines, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Syria, Trinidad and Tobago,
Venezuela

observers - (1) China

Group of 77 (G-77):  established - 15 June1964; October 1967 first
ministerial meeting

aim - to promote economic cooperation among developing countries; name
persists in spite of increased membership

members - (129 plus the Palestine Liberation Organization) Afghanistan,
Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, The Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile,
China, Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of
the Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Cuba, Djibouti, Dominica,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea,
Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran,
Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, North Korea, Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Federated States of
Micronesia, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia,
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands,
Somalia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syria,
Tanzania, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkmenistan, Uganda, UAE, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela,
Vietnam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Palestine Liberation Organization

Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC):  note - also known as the Cooperation
Council for the Arab States of the Gulf

established - 25 May 1981

aim - to promote regional cooperation in economic, social, political,
and military affairs

members - (6) Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, UAE

Organization for Democracy and Economic Development (GUAM):  note-
acronym standing for the member countries, Georgia, Ukraine,
Azerbaijan, Moldova; formerly known as GUUAM before Uzbekistan withdrew
in 5 May 2005

established - 7 June 2001

aim - commits the countries to cooperation and assistance in social and
economic development, the strengthening and broadening of trade and
economic relations, and the development and effective use of transport
and communications, highways, and related infrastructure crossing the
boundaries of the member states

members - (4) Azerbaijan, Georgia, Moldova, Ukraine

high income countries:  another term for the industrialized countries
with high per capita GDPs; see developed countries (DCs)

Indian Ocean Commission (InOC):  established - 21 December 1982

aim - to organize and promote regional cooperation in all sectors,
especially economic

members - (5) Comoros, France (for Reunion and Mayotte), Madagascar,
Mauritius, Seychelles

industrial countries:  another term for the developed countries; see
developed countries (DCs)

Inter-American Development Bank (IADB):  note - also known as Banco
Interamericano de Desarrollo (BID)

established - 8 April 1959; effective - 30 December 1959

aim - to promote economic and social development in Latin America

members - (47) Argentina, Austria, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belgium,
Belize, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia,
Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Finland, France,
Germany, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Israel, Italy, Jamaica,
Japan, South Korea, Mexico, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Norway, Panama,
Paraguay, Peru, Portugal, Slovenia, Spain, Suriname, Sweden,
Switzerland, Trinidad and Tobago, UK, US, Uruguay, Venezuela

Inter-Governmental Authority on Development (IGAD):  note - formerly
known as Inter-Governmental Authority on Drought and Development
(IGADD)

established - 15-16 January 1986 as the Inter-Governmental Authority on
Drought and Development; revitalized - 21 March 1996 as the Inter-
Governmental Authority on Development

aim - to promote a social, economic, and scientific community among its
members

members - (6) Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, Somalia, Sudan, Uganda; note -
Eritrea declared its suspension in 2007

Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU):  established - 1889

aim - fosters contacts among parliamentarians, considers and expresses
views of international interest and concern with the purpose of
bringing about action by parliaments and parliamentarians, contributes
to the defense and promotion of human rights, contributes to better
knowledge of representative institutions

members - (154 and the Palestine Liberation Organization) Afghanistan,
Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Australia,
Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia, Bosnia
and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia,
Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Costa
Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Estonia, Ethiopia,
Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece,
Guatemala, Guinea, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, North Korea, South
Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia,
Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Madagascar,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia,
Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman,
Pakistan, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Rwanda, Somalia, Samoa, San
Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Tanzania, Tajikistan,
Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Palestine
Liberation Organization

associate members - (8) Andean Parliament, Central American Parliament,
East African Legislative Assembly, European Parliament, Inter-
Parliamentary Committee of the West African Economic and Monetary
Union, Latin American Parliament, Parliament of the Economic Community
of West African States, Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe

International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA):  established - 26 October
1956; effective - 29 July 1957

aim - to promote peaceful uses of atomic energy

members - (145) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina,
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium,
Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil,
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Cameroon, Canada, Central African
Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Democratic Republic of the
Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Gabon, Georgia, Germany,
Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Holy See, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,
India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan,
Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia,
Lebanon, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro,
Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Palau, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Serbia, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South
Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria,
Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine,
UAE, UK, US, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Zambia,
Zimbabwe; note - membership pending for Bahrain, Burundi, Cape Verde,
Republic of the Congo, Lesotho, Oman, Nepal until the necessary legal
instruments are deposited with the IAEA

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD):  note -
also known as the World Bank

established - 22 July 1944; effective - 27 December 1945

aim - to provide economic development loans; a UN specialized agency

members - (185) includes all UN member countries except Andorra, Cuba,
North Korea, Liechtenstein, Monaco, Nauru, and Tuvalu

International Chamber of Commerce (ICC):  established - 1919

aim - to promote free trade and private enterprise and to represent
business interests at national and international levels

members - (91 national committees) Algeria, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Cameroon, Canada, Caribbean, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica,
Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Ghana,
Greece, Guatemala, Hong Kong, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, South Korea, Kuwait, Lebanon,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mexico, Monaco, Morocco,
Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Taiwan, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia,
Turkey, Ukraine, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay, Venezuela; note - Peru is
restructuring

International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO):  established - 7
December 1944; effective - 4 April 1947

aim - to promote international cooperation in civil aviation; a UN
specialized agency

members - (190) includes all UN member countries except Dominica,
Liechtenstein, and Tuvalu (189 total); plus Cook Islands

International Civilian Support Mission in Haiti (MICAH):  established
17 December 1999 to promote respect for human rights; members included
Argentina, Benin, Canada, France, India, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo,
Tunisia, US; closed 2001

International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC):  established - 17
February 1863

aim - to provide humanitarian aid in wartime

members - (15-25 individuals) all Swiss nationals

International Court of Justice (ICJ):  note - also known as the World
Court

established - 3 February 1946 superseded Permanent Court of
International Justice

aim - primary judicial organ of the UN

members - (15 judges) elected by the UN General Assembly and Security
Council to represent all principal legal systems

International Criminal Court (ICCt):  established - 11 April 2002

aim - to hold all individuals and countries accountable to
international laws of conduct; to specify international standards of
conduct; to provide an important mechanism for implementing these
standards; to ensure that perpetrators are brought to justice

members (countries that have ratified the treaty) - (108) Afghanistan,
Albania, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Barbados, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Canada,
Central African Republic, Chad, Colombia, Comoros, Cook Islands,
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Costa Rica,
Croatia, Cyprus, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,
Ireland, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, South Korea, Latvia, Lesotho,
Liberia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Madagascar,
Malawi, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia,
Montenegro, Namibia, Nauru, Netherlands, NZ, Niger, Nigeria, Norway,
Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Saint Vincent and
the Grenadines, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Samoa, San Marino, Senegal,
Serbia, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain,
Suriname, Sweden, Switzerland, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Timor-Leste,
Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, UK, Uruguay, Venezuela, Zambia

International Criminal Police Organization (Interpol):  established -
September 1923 set up as the International Criminal Police Commission;
13 June 1956 constitution modified and present name adopted

aim - to promote international cooperation among police authorities in
fighting crime

members - (187) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua
and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Aruba, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan,
The Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon,
Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the
Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana,
Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Holy
See, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, South Korea,
Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco,
Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands, Netherlands Antilles,
NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua
New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar,
Romania, Russia, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia,
Slovenia, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand,
Timor-Leste, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay, Uzbekistan,
Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe

subbureaus - (11) American Samoa, Anguilla, Bermuda, British Virgin
Islands, Cayman Islands, Gibraltar, Hong Kong, Macau, Montserrat,
Puerto Rico, Turks and Caicos Islands

International Development Association (IDA):  established - 26 January
1960; effective - 24 September 1960

aim - to provide economic loans for low-income countries; UN
specialized agency and IBRD affiliate

members - (168) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina,
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The Bahamas, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia,
Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile,
China, Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of
the Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El
Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, EU, Fiji,
Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece,
Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kiribati, South Korea, Kuwait,
Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Luxembourg,
Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Marshall
Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Federated States of Micronesia,
Moldova, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Palau, Panama, Papua
New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Russia,
Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines, Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Serbia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands,
Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden,
Switzerland, Syria, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo,
Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK,
US, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Vietnam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe

International Energy Agency (IEA):  established - 15 November 1974

aim - to promote cooperation on energy matters, especially emergency
oil sharing and relations between oil consumers and oil producers;
established by the OECD

members - (28) Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy,
Japan, South Korea, Luxembourg, Netherlands, NZ, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, UK, US

International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies
(IFRCS):  note - formerly known as League of Red Cross and Red Crescent
Societies (LORCS)

established - 5 May 1919

aim - to organize, coordinate, and direct international relief actions;
to promote humanitarian activities; to represent and encourage the
development of National Societies; to bring help to victims of armed
conflicts, refugees, and displaced people; to reduce the vulnerability
of people through development programs

members - (185 plus the Palestine Liberation Organization) Afghanistan,
Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Bosnia
and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African
Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of
the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Cook Islands, Costa Rica, Cote
d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea,
Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran,
Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan,
Kenya, Kiribati, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos,
Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Federated States of Micronesia, Moldova,
Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal,
Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Palau,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint
Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Sao Tome
and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Seychelles, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa,
Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland,
Syria, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tonga,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine,
UAE, UK, US, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen,
Zambia, Zimbabwe, Palestine Liberation Organization

observers - (2) Eritrea and Tuvalu

International Finance Corporation (IFC):  established - 25 May 1955;
effective - 24 July 1956

aim - to support private enterprise in international economic
development; a UN specialized agency and IBRD affiliate

members - (181) includes all UN member countries except Andorra,
Brunei, Cuba, North Korea, Liechtenstein, Monaco, Nauru, Saint Vincent
and the Grenadines, San Marino, Suriname, Tuvalu

International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD):  established -
November 1974

aim - to promote agricultural development; a UN specialized agency

members - (165)

List A - (23 industrialized aid contributors) Austria, Belgium, Canada,
Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy,
Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, NZ, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland, UK, US

List B - (12 petroleum-exporting aid contributors) Algeria, Gabon,
Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia,
UAE, Venezuela

List C - (130 aid recipients) Afghanistan, Albania, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Azerbaijan, The Bahamas, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon,
Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Cook
Islands, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Djibouti,
Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial
Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, The Gambia, Georgia, Ghana, Grenada,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India,
Israel, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kiribati, North Korea,
South Korea, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Macedonia,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Moldova, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia,
Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Niue, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New
Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Romania, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and
Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Sao Tome
and Principe, Senegal, Serbia (suspended since 1992), Seychelles,
Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Syria, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand, Timor-
Leste, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda,
Uruguay, Vietnam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe

International Hydrographic Organization (IHO):  note - name changed
from International Hydrographic Bureau on 22 September 1970

established - June 1919; effective - June 1921

aim - to train hydrographic surveyors and nautical cartographers to
achieve standardization in nautical charts and electronic chart
displays; to provide advice on nautical cartography and hydrography; to
develop the sciences in the field of hydrography and techniques used
for descriptive oceanograrphy

members - (80) Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Belgium, Brazil, Burma, Canada, Chile, China (including Hong Kong and
Macau), Colombia, Democratic Republic of the Congo (suspended),
Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Denmark, Dominican Republic (suspended),
Ecuador, Egypt, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
Guatemala, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica,
Japan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Latvia, Malaysia, Mauritius,
Mexico, Monaco, Morocco, Mozambique, Netherlands, NZ, Nigeria, Norway,
Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal,
Qatar, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Singapore, Slovenia,
South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname (suspended), Sweden, Syria,
Thailand, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, UAE,
UK, US, Uruguay, Venezuela

International Labor Organization (ILO):  established - 28 June 1919 set
up as part of Treaty of Versailles; 11 April 1919 became operative; 14
December 1946 affiliated with the UN

aim - to deal with world labor issues; a UN specialized agency

members - (181) includes all UN member countries except Andorra,
Bhutan, North Korea, Liechtenstein, Maldives, Federated States of
Micronesia, Monaco, Nauru, Palau, Tonga, and Tuvalu; note - includes
the following dependencies: Netherlands (Netherlands Antilles and
Aruba)

International Maritime Organization (IMO):  note - name changed from
Intergovernmental Maritime Consultative Organization (IMCO) on 22 May
1982

established - 6 March 1948 set up as the Inter-Governmental Maritime
Consultative Organization; effective - 17 March 1958

aim - to deal with international maritime affairs; a UN specialized
agency

members - (167) includes all UN member countries except Afghanistan,
Andorra, Armenia, Belarus, Bhutan, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Central African Republic, Chad, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lesotho,
Liechtenstein, Mali, Federated States of Micronesia, Nauru, Niger,
Palau, Rwanda, Tajikistan, Uganda, Uzbekistan, Zambia

associate members - (3) Faroe Islands, Hong Kong, Macau

International Monetary Fund (IMF):  established - 22 July 1944;
effective - 27 December 1945

aim - to promote world monetary stability and economic development; a
UN specialized agency

members - (185) includes all UN member countries except Andorra, Cuba,
North Korea, Liechtenstein, Monaco, Nauru, Tuvalu; note - includes the
following dependencies or areas of special interest: China (Hong Kong
and Macau), Netherlands (Netherlands Antilles and Aruba)

International Mobile Satellite Organization (IMSO):  established - 15
April 1999

aim - acts as watchdog over Inmarsat (International Maritime Satellite
Organization), a private company, to make sure it follows ICAO
standards and recommended practices; plays an active role in the
development of international telecommunications policies

members - (92) Algeria, Argentina, Australia, The Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Brunei,
Bulgaria, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Cook
Islands, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Egypt, Finland, France, Gabon, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Hungary,
Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kenya,
South Korea, Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, Liberia, Libya, Malaysia, Malta,
Marshall Islands, Maurtius, Mexico, Monaco, Montenegro, Morocco,
Mozambique, Netherlands, NZ, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, South Africa, Spain, Sri
Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania, Thailand, Tonga, Tunisia, Turkey,
Ukraine, UAE, UK, US, Venezuela, Vietnam

International Olympic Committee (IOC):  established - 23 June 1894

aim - to promote the Olympic ideals and administer the Olympic games:
2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver, Canada; 2012 Summer Olympics in
London, UK; 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia

National Olympic Committees - (204 and the Palestine Liberation
Organization) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, American Samoa, Andorra,
Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Aruba, Australia,
Austria, Azerbaijan, The Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bermuda, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, British Virgin Islands, Brunei,
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada,
Cape Verde, Cayman Islands, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile,
China, Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of
the Congo, Cook Islands, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea,
Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guam, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-
Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hong Kong, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kiribati, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait,
Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Federated States of Micronesia, Moldova, Monaco,
Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal,
Netherlands, Netherlands Antilles, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Puerto Rico, Qatar, Romania,
Russia, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and
the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Serbia, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia,
Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Taiwan,
Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, Ukraine, UAE,
UK, US, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Virgin
Islands, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Palestine Liberation Organization

International Organization for Migration (IOM):  note - established as
Provisional Intergovernmental Committee for the Movement of Migrants
from Europe; renamed Intergovernmental Committee for European Migration
(ICEM) on 15 November 1952; renamed Intergovernmental Committee for
Migration (ICM) in November 1980; current name adopted 14 November 1989

established - 5 December 1951

aim - to facilitate orderly international emigration and immigration

members - (122) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina,
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The Bahamas, Bangladesh,
Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada,
Cape Verde, Chile, Colombia, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic
of the Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
Estonia, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana,
Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary,
India, Iran, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kazakhstan, Kenya, South Korea, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Liberia, Libya,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius,
Mexico, Moldova, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra
Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, UK, US, Uruguay, Venezuela, Vietnam,
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe

observers - (16) Bahrain, Bhutan, China, Cuba, Ethiopia, Guyana, Holy
See, Indonesia, Macedonia, Mozambique, Namibia, Papua New Guinea,
Russia, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Turkmenistan

International Organization for Standardization (ISO):  established -
February 1947

aim - to promote the development of international standards with a view
to facilitating international exchange of goods and services and to
developing cooperation in the sphere of intellectual, scientific,
technological and economic activity

members - (105 national standards organizations) Algeria, Argentina,
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria,
Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Costa
Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Germany, Ghana,
Greece, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, North Korea,
South Korea, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia,
Malaysia, Malta, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Netherlands, NZ,
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Saint Lucia, Saudi Arabia, Serbia,
Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Tanzania, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela,
Vietnam, Zimbabwe

correspondent members - (41 plus the Palestine Liberation Organization)
Afghanistan, Albania, Angola, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brunei, Burkina
Faso, Burma, Cameroon, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Eritrea,
Estonia, Gabon, Georgia, Guatemala, Guinea, Hong Kong, Kyrgyzstan,
Latvia, Macau, Madagascar, Malawi, Moldova, Montenegro, Mozambique,
Namibia, Nepal, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Rwanda, Senegal,
Seychelles, Swaziland, Tajikistan, Togo, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Yemen,
Zambia, Palestine Liberation Organization

subscriber members - (10) Antigua and Barbuda, Burundi, Cambodia,
Dominica, Guyana, Honduras, Laos, Lesotho, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines, Suriname

International Organization of the French-speaking World (OIF):  note -
name changed from Agency of Cultural and Technical Cooperation (ACCT)
in 1997; also known as Organisation Internationale de la Francophonie

established - 20 March 1970

aim - founded around a common language to promote and spread the
cultures of its members and to reinforce cultural and technical
cooperation between them

members - (53) Albania, Andorra, Belgium, Benin, Bulgaria, Burkina
Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Canada - New Brunswick,
Canada - Quebec, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros,
Democratic Republic of Congo, Republic of Congo, Cote d'Ivoire,
Djibouti, Dominica, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, France, French Community
of Belgium, Gabon, Greece, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Laos, Lebanon,
Luxembourg, Macedonia, Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius,
Moldova, Monaco, Morocco, Niger, Romania, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Sao Tome
and Principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Switzerland, Togo, Tunisia, Vanuatu,
Vietnam

associates - (3) Armenia, Cyprus, Ghana

observers - (14) Austria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Georgia, Hungary,
Latvia, Lithuania, Mozambique, Poland, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Thailand, Ukraine

International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement (ICRM):  established
- 1928

aim - to promote worldwide humanitarian aid through the International
Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) in wartime, and International
Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRCS; formerly
League of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies or LORCS) in peacetime

National Societies - (185 countries and the Palestine Liberation
Organization); note - same as membership for International Federation
of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRCS)

International Telecommunications Satellites Organization (ITSO):
established - August 1964

aim - to act as a watchdog over Intelsat, Ltd., a private company, to
make sure it provides on a global and non-discriminatory basis public
telecommunication services

members - (148) Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Armenia,
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Canada,
Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Costa
Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia, Germany,
Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Holy See,
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, North Korea,
South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lebanon, Libya, Liechtenstein,
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, the Federated States of Micronesia, Monaco,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New
Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania,
Russia, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Singapore, Somalia,
South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland,
Syria, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela,
Vietnam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe

International Telecommunication Union (ITU):  established - 17 May 1865
set up as the International Telegraph Union; 9 December 1932 adopted
present name; effective - 1 January 1934; affiliated with the UN - 15
November 1947

aim - to deal with world telecommunications issues; a UN specialized
agency

members - (191) includes all UN member countries except Palau, Timor-
Leste (190 total); plus Holy See

International Trade Union Confederation (ITUC):  note - its
predecessors were the Confederation of Free Trade Unions (ICFTU) and
the World Confederation of Labor (WCL)

established - 3 November 2006

aim - to promote the trade union movement

members - (311 affiliated organizations in the following 154 countries
and the Palestine Liberation Organization as of December 2007) Albania,
Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Aruba, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium,
Belize, Benin, Bermuda, Bonaire, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana,
Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde,
Central African Republic, Comoros, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Democratic
Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Cook Islands, Costa Rica,
Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Curacao, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Eritrea,
Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, French Polynesia, Gabon, The
Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Holy See, Honduras, Hong Kong, Hungary,
Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan,
Kenya, Kiribati, South Korea, Kosovo, Kuwait, Latvia, Liberia,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali,
Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco,
Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, New Caledonia, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Puerto Rico, Romania, Russia, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe,
Senegal, Serbia, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, South
Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland,
Taiwan, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, UK, US, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Yemen, Zambia,
Zimbabwe, and the Palestine Liberation Organization

Islamic Development Bank (IDB):  established - 15 December 1973 by
declaration of intent; effective - 12 August 1974

aim - to promote Islamic economic aid and social development

members - (55 plus the Palestine Liberation Organization) Afghanistan,
Albania, Algeria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Brunei,
Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chad, Comoros, Cote d'Ivoire, Djibouti, Egypt,
Gabon, The Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq,
Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lebanon, Libya, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Mozambique, Niger, Nigeria, Oman,
Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan,
Suriname, Syria, Tajikistan, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan,
Uganda, UAE, Uzbekistan, Yemen, Palestine Liberation Organization

Latin American Economic System (LAES):  note - also known as Sistema
Economico Latinoamericana (SELA)

established - 17 October 1975

aim - to promote economic and social development through regional
cooperation

members - (27) Argentina, the Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Bolivia,
Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Jamaica, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama,
Paraguay, Peru, Secretaria General Iberoamericana (SEGIB), Suriname,
Trinidad and Tobago, Uruguay, Venezuela

Latin American Integration Association (LAIA):  note - also known as
Asociacion Latinoamericana de Integracion (ALADI)

established - 12 August 1980; effective - 18 March 1981

aim - to promote freer regional trade

members - (12) Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba,
Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, Venezuela

observers - (26) China, Corporacion Andina de Fomento, Costa Rica,
Dominican Republic, EC, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Inter-
American Development Bank, Inter-American Institute for Cooperation on
Agriculture, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Latin America Economic System,
Nicaragua, Organization of American States, Panama, Pan-American Health
Organization, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Spain, Switzerland, Ukraine,
United Nations Development Program, United Nations Economic Commission
for Latin America and the Caribbean

League of Arab States (LAS):  note - also known as Arab League (AL)

established - 22 March 1945

aim - aim - to promote economic, social, political, and military
cooperation

members - (21 plus the Palestine Liberation Organization) Algeria,
Bahrain, Comoros, Djibouti, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon,
Libya, Mauritania, Morocco, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Sudan,
Syria, Tunisia, UAE, Yemen, Palestine Liberation Organization

observers - (3) Eritrea, India, Venezuela

least developed countries (LLDCs):  that subgroup of the less developed
countries (LDCs) initially identified by the UN General Assembly in
1971 as having no significant economic growth, per capita GDPs normally
less than $1,000, and low literacy rates; also known as the undeveloped
countries; the 42 LLDCs are: Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan,
Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cape Verde, Central African
Republic, Chad, Comoros, Djibouti, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea,
Ethiopia, The Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Kiribati, Laos,
Lesotho, Malawi, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mozambique, Nepal, Niger,
Rwanda, Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan,
Tanzania, Togo, Tuvalu, Uganda, Vanuatu, Yemen

less developed countries (LDCs):  the bottom group in the hierarchy of
developed countries (DCs), former USSR/Eastern Europe (former USSR/EE),
and less developed countries (LDCs); mainly countries and dependent
areas with low levels of output, living standards, and technology; per
capita GDPs are generally below $5,000 and often less than $1,500;
however, the group also includes a number of countries with high per
capita incomes, areas of advanced technology, and rapid rates of
growth; includes the advanced developing countries, developing
countries, Four Dragons (Four Tigers), least developed countries
(LLDCs), low-income countries, middle-income countries, newly
industrializing economies (NIEs), the South, Third World,
underdeveloped countries, undeveloped countries; the 172 LDCs are:
Afghanistan, Algeria, American Samoa, Angola, Anguilla, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Aruba, The Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, British Virgin
Islands, Brunei, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape
Verde, Cayman Islands, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,
Christmas Island, Cocos Islands, Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic
of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Cook Islands, Costa Rica, Cote
d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia,
Falkland Islands, Fiji, French Guiana, French Polynesia, Gabon, The
Gambia, Gaza Strip, Ghana, Gibraltar, Greenland, Grenada, Guadeloupe,
Guam, Guatemala, Guernsey, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Isle of Man,
Jamaica, Jersey, Jordan, Kenya, Kiribati, North Korea, South Korea,
Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Macau, Madagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Marshall Islands, Martinique,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mayotte, Federated States of Micronesia,
Mongolia, Montserrat, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal,
Netherlands Antilles, New Caledonia, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Niue,
Norfolk Island, Northern Mariana Islands, Oman, Palau, Pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Pitcairn
Islands, Puerto Rico, Qatar, Reunion, Rwanda, Saint Helena, Saint Kitts
and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Pierre and Miquelon, Saint Vincent and
the Grenadines, Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Somalia, Sri
Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syria, Taiwan, Tanzania, Thailand,
Togo, Tokelau, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turks and Caicos
Islands, Tuvalu, UAE, Uganda, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam,
Virgin Islands, Wallis and Futuna, West Bank, Western Sahara, Yemen,
Zambia, Zimbabwe; note - similar to the new International Monetary Fund
(IMF) term "developing countries" which adds Malta, Mexico, South
Africa, and Turkey but omits in its recently published statistics
American Samoa, Anguilla, British Virgin Islands, Brunei, Cayman
Islands, Christmas Island, Cocos Islands, Cook Islands, Cuba, Eritrea,
Falkland Islands, French Guiana, French Polynesia, Gaza Strip,
Gibraltar, Greenland, Grenada, Guadeloupe, Guam, Guernsey, Isle of Man,
Jersey, North Korea, Macau, Martinique, Mayotte, Montserrat, Nauru, New
Caledonia, Niue, Norfolk Island, Northern Mariana Islands, Palau,
Pitcairn Islands, Puerto Rico, Reunion, Saint Helena, Saint Pierre and
Miquelon, Tokelau, Tonga, Turks and Caicos Islands, Tuvalu, Virgin
Islands, Wallis and Futuna, West Bank, Western Sahara

low-income countries:  another term for those less developed countries
with below-average per capita GDPs; see less developed countries (LDCs)

middle-income countries:  another term for those less developed
countries with above-average per capita GDPs; see less developed
countries (LDCs)

Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA):  established - 12
April 1988

aim - encourages flow of foreign direct investment among member
countries by offering investment insurance, consultation, and
negotiation on conditions for foreign investment and technical
assistance; a UN specialized agency

members - (173) includes all UN member countries except Andorra,
Bhutan, Brunei, Burma, Comoros, Cuba, Kiribati, North Korea,
Liechtenstein, Marshall Islands, Monaco, Nauru, NZ, Niger, San Marino,
Sao Tome and Principe, Somalia, Tonga, Tuvalu

Near Abroad:  Russian term for the 14 non-Russian successor states of
the USSR, in which 25 million ethnic Russians live and in which Moscow
has expressed a strong national security interest; the 14 countries are
Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Estonia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan,
Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine,
Uzbekistan

new independent states (NIS):  a term referring to all the countries of
the FSU except the Baltic countries (Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania)

newly industrializing countries (NICs):  former term for the newly
industrializing economies; see newly industrializing economies (NIEs)

newly industrializing economies (NIEs):  that subgroup of the less
developed countries (LDCs) that has experienced particularly rapid
industrialization of their economies; formerly known as the newly
industrializing countries (NICs); also known as advanced developing
countries; usually includes the Four Dragons (Hong Kong, South Korea,
Singapore, Taiwan), and Brazil

Nonaligned Movement (NAM):  established - 1-6 September 1961

aim - to establish political and military cooperation apart from the
traditional East or West blocs

members - (117 plus the Palestine Liberation Organization) Afghanistan,
Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,The Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brunei,
Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central
African Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic
of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, Cuba, Djibouti,
Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea,
Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran,
Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, North Korea, Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia,
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, South Africa,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syria, Tanzania, Thailand,
Timor-Leste, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkmenistan, Uganda,
UAE, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe,
Palestine Liberation Organization

observers - (15) Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil,
China, Costa Rica, Croatia, El Salvadore, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan,
Mexico, Paraguay, Serbia, Ukraine, Uruguay

guests - (24) Australia, Austria, Bulgaria, Canada, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Finland, Germany, Greece, Holy See, Hungary, Italy,
Netherlands, NZ, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Slovakia,
Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland

Nordic Council (NC):  established - 16 March 1952; effective - 12
February 1953

aim - to promote regional economic, cultural, and environmental
cooperation

members - (5) Denmark (including Faroe Islands and Greenland), Finland
(including Aland Islands), Iceland, Norway, Sweden

observers - (3) the Sami (Lapp) local parliaments of Finland, Norway,
and Sweden

Nordic Investment Bank (NIB):  established - 4 December 1975; effective
- 1 June 1976

aim - to promote economic cooperation and development

members - (8) Denmark (including Faroe Islands and Greenland), Estonia,
Finland (including Aland Islands), Iceland, Latvia, Lithuania, Norway,
Sweden

North:  a popular term for the rich industrialized countries generally
located in the northern portion of the Northern Hemisphere; the
counterpart of the South; see developed countries (DCs)

North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA):  established - 17 December
1992

aim - to eliminate trade barriers, promote fair competition, increase
investment opportunities, provide protection of intellectual property
rights, and create procedures to settle disputes

members - (3) Canada, Mexico, US

North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO):  established - 4 April 1949

aim - to promote mutual defense and cooperation

members - (26) Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Estonia, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Latvia,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania,
Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Turkey, UK, US

Nuclear Energy Agency (NEA):  note - also known as OECD Nuclear Energy
Agency

established - 1 February 1958

aim - to promote the peaceful uses of nuclear energy; associated with
OECD

members - (28) Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland,
Italy, Japan, South Korea, Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands, Norway,
Portugal, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, UK, US

Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG):  note - also known as the London
Suppliers Group or the London Group

established - 1974; effective - 1975

aim - to establish guidelines for exports of nuclear materials,
processing equipment for uranium enrichment, and technical information
to countries of proliferation concern and regions of conflict and
instability

members - (45) Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Brazil,
Bulgaria, Canada, China, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy,
Japan, Kazakhstan, South Korea, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta,
Netherlands, NZ, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Slovakia,
Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine,
UK, US

observer - (1) European Commission (a policy-planning body for the EU)

Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD):
established - 14 December 1960; effective - 30 September 1961

aim - to promote economic cooperation and development

members - (30) Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland,
Italy, Japan, South Korea, Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands, NZ, Norway,
Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, UK, US

special member - (1) EC

Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE):  note -
formerly the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE)
established 3 July 1975

established - 1 January 1995

aim - to foster the implementation of human rights, fundamental
freedoms, democracy, and the rule of law; to act as an instrument of
early warning, conflict prevention, and crisis management; and to serve
as a framework for conventional arms control and confidence building
measures

members - (56) Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus,
Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany,
Greece, Holy See, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan,
Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia,
Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Russia, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Tajikistan, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Ukraine,
UK, US, Uzbekistan

partners for cooperation - (11) Afghanistan, Algeria, Egypt, Israel,
Japan, Jordan, South Korea, Mongolia, Morocco, Thailand, Tunisia

Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW):
established - 29 April 1997

aim - to enforce the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development,
Production, Stockpiling, and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their
Destruction; to provide a forum for consultation and cooperation among
the signatories of the Convention

members (countries that have ratified the Convention) - (184)
Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbadoes, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad,
Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo,
Republic of the Congo, Cook Islands, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire,
Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Dominica, Djibouti,
Ecuador, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana,
Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Holy
See, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Ireland,
Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kiribati, South
Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Latvia, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Federated States of Micronesia, Moldova, Monaco,
Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal,
Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Niue, Norway, Oman,
Pakistan, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and
Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, San
Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia,
Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon
Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland,
Sweden, Switzerland, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo,
Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu,
Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela,
Vietnam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe

signatory states (countries that have signed, but not ratified, the
Convention) - (5) The Bahamas, Burma, Dominican Republic, Guinea-
Bissau, Israel

Organization of African Unity (OAU):  see African Union

Organization of American States (OAS):  established - 14 April 1890 as
the International Union of American Republics; 30 April 1948 adopted
present charter; effective - 13 December 1951

aim - to promote regional peace and security as well as economic and
social development

members - (35) Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, The Bahamas, Barbados,
Belize, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba
(excluded from formal participation since 1962), Dominica, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Grenada, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, Jamaica, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Saint
Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines,
Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago, US, Uruguay, Venezuela

observers - (63) Algeria, Angola, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan,
Belgium, Benin, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, China, Croatia,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Estonia, EU,
Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Holy See, Hungary,
Iceland, India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, South Korea,
Latvia, Lebanon, Luxembourg, Morocco, Netherlands, Nigeria, Norway,
Pakistan, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Saudi
Arabia, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden,
Switzerland, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, UK, Vanuatu, Yemen

Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries (OAPEC):
established - 9 January 1968

aim - to promote cooperation in the petroleum industry

members - (11) Algeria, Bahrain, Egypt, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Qatar,
Saudi Arabia, Syria, Tunisia (suspended), UAE

Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS):  established - 18 June
1981; effective - 4 July 1981

aim - to promote political, economic, and defense cooperation

members - (9) Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, British Virgin Islands,
Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia,
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines

Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC):  established - 14
September 1960

aim - to coordinate petroleum policies

members - (13) Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait,
Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Venezuela

Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC):  established - 22-25
September 1969

aim - to promote Islamic solidarity in economic, social, cultural, and
political affairs

members - (56 plus the Palestine Liberation Organization) Afghanistan,
Albania, Algeria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Brunei,
Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chad, Comoros, Cote d'Ivoire, Djibouti, Egypt,
Gabon, The Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Indonesia, Iran,
Iraq, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lebanon, Libya, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Mozambique, Niger, Nigeria, Oman,
Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan,
Suriname, Syria, Tajikistan, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan,
Uganda, UAE, Uzbekistan, Yemen, Palestine Liberation Organization

observers - (14) AU, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Central African Republic,
ECO, Islamic Conference Youth Forum for Dialogue and Cooperation, LAS,
Moro National Liberation Front, NAM, OAU, Parliamentary Union of the
OIC Member States, Russia, Thailand, Turkish Muslim Community of
Kibris, UN

Pacific Community (SPC):  local name of the Secretariat of the Pacific
Community

Pacific Islands Forum (PIF):  note - formerly known as South Pacific
Forum (SPF)

established - 5 August 1971

aim - to promote regional cooperation in political matters

members - (16) Australia, Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, Marshall
Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Nauru, NZ, Niue, Palau, Papua
New Guinea, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu

associate members - (2) French Polynesia, New Caledonia

partners - (13) Canada, China, EU, France, India, Indonesia, Japan,
South Korea, Malaysia, Philippines, Thailand, UK, US

observers - (5) Asia Development Bank, The Commonwealth, Timor-Leste,
Tokelau, Wallis and Futuna

Paris Club:  established - 1956

aim - to provide a forum for debtor countries to negotiate rescheduling
of debt service payments or loans extended by governments or official
agencies of participating countries; to help restore normal trade and
project finance to debtor countries

members - (19) Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland,
France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Norway, Russia,
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, UK, US

Partnership for Peace (PFP):  established - 10-11 January 1994

aim - to expand and intensify political and military cooperation
throughout Europe, increase stability, diminish threats to peace, and
build relationships by promoting the spirit of practical cooperation
and commitment to democratic principles that underpin NATO; program
under the auspices of NATO

members - (24) Albania, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia
and Herzegovina, Croatia, Finland, Georgia, Ireland, Kazakhstan,
Kyrgyzstan, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Montenegro, Russia, Serbia,
Sweden, Switzerland, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, Uzbekistan;
note - a nation that becomes a member of NATO is no longer a member of
PFP

Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA):  established - 29 July 1899

aim - to facilitate the settlement of international disputes

members - (108) Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Belarus,
Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Democratic Republic
of the Congo, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea,
Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala,
Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Iran, Iraq, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan,
Laos, Latvia, Lebanon, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Macedonia, Malaysia, Malta, Mauritius, Mexico, Montenegro, Morocco,
Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Panama,
Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand,
Togo, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, UK, US, Uruguay, Venezuela, Zambia,
Zimbabwe

Rio Group (RG):  note - formerly known as Grupo de los Ocho,
established NA December 1986; composed of the Contadora Group and the
Lima Group

established - 1988

aim - to consult on regional Latin American issues

members - (21) Argentina, Belize, Bolivia, Brazil, CARICOM, Chile,
Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador,
Guatemala, Guyana, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru,
Uruguay, Venezuela

Schengen Convention:  established - established - signed June 1990;
effective March 1995

aim - aim - to allow free movement within an area without internal
border controls

members - (25) Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia,
Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Latvia,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Netherlands, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland; note - UK and
Ireland have not joined; Liechtenstein and Cyprus will probably join in
2009; Bulgaria and Romania are still not fully implemented

Second World:  another term for the traditionally Marxist-Leninist
states of the USSR and Eastern Europe, with authoritarian governments
and command economies based on the Soviet model; the term is fading
from use; see centrally planned economies

Secretariat of the Pacific Community (SPC):  established - 6 February
1947; effective 29 July 1948

aim - to serve island development in 22 Pacific countries; to develop
technical assistance and professional, scientific, and research
support; to build planning and management capability

members - (26) America Samoa, Australia, Cook Islands, Fiji, France,
French Polynesia, Guam, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Federated States of
Micronesia, Nauru, New Caledonia, Niue, Northern Mariana Islands, NZ,
Palau, Papua New Guinea, Pitcairn Islands, Samoa, Solomon Islands,
Tokelau, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, US, Wallis and Futuna

Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO):  established - 15 June 2001

aim - to combat terrorism, extremism, and separatism; to safeguard
regional security through mutual trust, disarmament, and cooperative
security; and to increase cooperation in political, trade, economic,
scientific and technological, cultural, and educational fields

members - (6) China, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Tajikistan,
Uzbekistan

observers - (4) India, Iran, Mongolia, Pakistan

guests - (6) Afghanistan, ASEAN, CIS, EurAsEC, Turkmenistan, UN

socialist countries:  in general, countries in which the government
owns and plans the use of the major factors of production; note - the
term is sometimes used incorrectly as a synonym for Communist countries

South:  a popular term for the poorer, less industrialized countries
generally located south of the developed countries; the counterpart of
the North; see less developed countries (LDCs)

South American Community of Nations (CSN):  established - 9 December
2004

aim - to coordinate common policies regarding multilateral
organizations, to integrate physical infrastructure, and to consolidate
the merger of CAN and Mercosur

members - (12) Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador,
Guyana, Paraguay, Peru, Surinam, Uruguay, Venezuela

observers - (2) Mexico, Panama

South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC):  established
- 8 December 1985

aim - to promote economic, social, and cultural cooperation

members - (8) Afghanistan. Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal,
Pakistan, Sri Lanka

observers - (9) Australia, Burma, China, EU, Iran, Japan, South Korea,
Mauritius, US

South Asia Co-operative Environment Program (SACEP):  established -
January 1983

aim - to promote regional cooperation in South Asia in the field of
environment, both natural and human, and on issues of economic and
social development; to support conservation and management of natural
resources of the region

members - (8) Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal,
Pakistan, Sri Lanka

South Pacific Forum (SPF):  note - see Pacific Island Forum

South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement
(Sparteca):  established - 1981

aim - to redress unequal trade relationships of Australia and New
Zealand with small island economies in the Pacific region

members - (16) Australia, Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, Marshall
Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Nauru, NZ, Niue, Palau, Papua
New Guinea, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu

Southeast European Cooperative Initiative (SECI):  established - 6
December 1996

aim - to encourage cooperation among participating states and to
facilitate their integration into European structures

members - (13) Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia,
Greece, Hungary, Macedonia, Moldova, Montenegro, Romania, Serbia,
Slovenia, Turkey

observers - (18) Austria, Azerbaijan, Belgium, Canada, France, Georgia,
Germany, Israel, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia,
Spain, Ukraine, UK, US

Southern African Customs Union (SACU):  established - 11 December 1969

aim - to promote free trade and cooperation in customs matters

members - (5) Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, Swaziland

Southern African Development Community (SADC):  note - evolved from the
Southern African Development Coordination Conference (SADCC)

established - 17 August 1992

aim - to promote regional economic development and integration

members - (14) Angola, Botswana, Democratic Republic of the Congo,
Lesotho, Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia,
Seychelles, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Zambia, Zimbabwe

Southern Cone Common Market (Mercosur) or Southern Common Market:  note
- also known as Mercado Comun del Cono Sur (Mercosur)

established - 26 March 1991

aim - to increase regional economic cooperation

members - (4) Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay

associate members - (5) Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru,
Venezuela

Third World:  another term for the less developed countries; the term
is obsolescent; see less developed countries (LDCs)

African Union/United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur (UNAMID):
established - 31 July 2007

aim - to contribute to the restoration of security conditions which
will allow safe humanitarian assistance throughout Darfur, to
contribute to the protection of civilian populations under imminent
threat of physical attack, to monitor, observe compliance with, and
verify the implementation of various ceasefire agreements

members - (31) Bangladesh, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Canada, China, Egypt,
Ethiopia, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Indonesia, Jordan, Kenya,
Libya, Malawi, Mali, Namibia, Nepal, Nigeria, Pakistan, Rwanda,
Senegal, South Africa, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Uganda, UK, Yemen,
Zambia

underdeveloped countries:  refers to those less developed countries
with the potential for above-average economic growth; see less
developed countries (LDCs)

undeveloped countries:  refers to those extremely poor less developed
countries (LDCs) with little prospect for economic growth; see least
developed countries (LLDCs)

Union Latina:  established - 15 May 1954; became functional 1983

aim - to project, protect, and promote the common heritage and unifying
idenitites of the Latin, and Latin-influenced, world

members - (37) Andorra, Angola, Bolivia, Brazil, Cape Verde, Chile,
Colombia, Cote d'Ivoire, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
El Salvador, France, Guatemala, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Honduras, Italy,
Mexico, Moldova, Monaco, Mozambique, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Portugal, Romania, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe,
Senegal, Spain, Timor-Leste, Uruguay, Venezuela

observers - (3) Argentina, Holy See, Order of Malta

Union of South American Nations (UNASUR - Spanish; UNASUL -
Portuguese):  formerly South American Community of Nations which
terminated on 16 April 2007

established - 23 May 2008

aim - to model a community after the European Union which will include
a common currency, parliament, and passport

members - (12) Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador,
Guyana, Paraguay, Peru, Suriname, Uruguay, Venezuela

United Nations (UN):  established - 26 June 1945; effective - 24
October 1945

aim - to maintain international peace and security and to promote
cooperation involving economic, social, cultural, and humanitarian
problems

constituent organizations - the UN is composed of six principal organs
and numerous subordinate agencies and bodies as follows:

1) Secretariat

2) General Assembly: Joint United Nations Program on HIV/AIDS (UN-
AIDS), International Research and Training Institute for the
Advancement of Women (INSTRAW), Office of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR), Organization for the Prohibition
of Chemical Weapons (OPCW), Preparation Committee for the Nuclear-Test-
Ban Treaty Organization (CTBTO), United Nations Center for Human
Settlements (UN-Habitat), United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF),
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), United
Nations Democracy Fund (UNDEF), United Nations Development Program
(UNDP), United Nations Drug Control Program (UNDCP), United Nations
Environment Program (UNEP),United Nations Fund for International
Partnerships (UNFIP), United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
(UNHCR), United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research (UNIDIR),
United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR), United
Nations Interregional Crime and Justice Research Institute (UNICRI),
United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), United Nations Office of
Project Services (UNOPS), United Nations Relief and Works Agency for
Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA), United Nations Research
Institute for Social Development (UNRISD), United Nations System Staff
College (UNSSC), United Nations University (UNU), World Food Program
(WFP)

3) Security Council: International Criminal Tribunal for the Former
Yugoslavia (ICTY), International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR),
United Nations Compensation Commission, United Nations Disengagement
Observer Force (UNDOF), African Union/United Nations Hybrid Operation
in Darfur (UNAMID), United Nations Integrated Mission in Timor-Leste
(UNMIT), United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo
(UNMIK), United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL), United
Nations Mission in Liberia (UNMIL), United Nations Military Observer
Group in India and Pakistan (UNMOGIP), United Nations Operation in Cote
d'Ivoire (UNOCI), United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western
Sahara (MINURSO), United Nations Mission in the Central African
Republic and Chad (MINURCAT), United Nations Mission in the Sudan
(UNMIS), United Nations Observer Mission in Georgia (UNOMIG), United
Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo
(MONUC), United Nations Peace-Keeping Force in Cyprus (UNFICYP), United
Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH), and United Nations
Truce Supervision Organization (UNTSO)

4) Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC): Commission for Social
Development, Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice,
Commission on Narcotics Drugs, Commission on Population and
Development, Commission on Science and Technology for Development,
Commission on Sustainable Development, Commission on the Status of
Women, Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP),
Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia (ESCWA), Economic
Commission for Africa (ECA), Economic Commission for Europe (ECE),
Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC), Food
and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), International
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD), International Center for Secretariat of Investment
Disputes (ICSID), International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO),
International Development Association (IDA), International Finance
Corporation (IFC), International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD), International Labor Organization (ILO), International Maritime
Organization (IMO), International Monetary Fund (IMF), International
Telecommunication Union (ITU), Multilateral Investment Geographic
Agency (MIGA), Statistical Commission, United Nations Educational,
Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), United Nations Forum on
Forests, United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO),
Universal Postal Union (UPU), World Health Organization (WHO), World
Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), World Meteorological
Organization (WMO), World Tourism Organization (UNWTO), and World Trade
Organization (WTO)

5) Trusteeship Council (inactive; no trusteeships at this time)

6) International Court of Justice (ICJ)

United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF):  note - acronym retained from
the predecessor organization, UN International Children's Emergency
Fund

established - 11 December 1946

aim - to help establish child health and welfare services

members - (36) selected on a rotating basis from all regions

United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD):
established - 30 December 1964

aim - to promote international trade

members - (193) all UN members plus Holy See

United Nations Development Program (UNDP):  established - 22 November
1965

aim - to provide technical assistance to stimulate economic and social
development

members (executive board) - (36) selected on a rotating basis from all
regions

United Nations Disengagement Observer Force (UNDOF):  established - 31
May 1974

aim - to observe the 1973 Arab-Israeli cease-fire; established by the
UN Security Council

members - (6) Austria, Canada, Croatia, India, Japan, Poland

United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization
(UNESCO):  established - 16 November 1945; effective - 4 November 1946

aim - to promote cooperation in education, science, and culture

members - (193) includes all UN member countries except Liechtenstein
(191 total); plus Cook Islands and Niue

associate members - (6) Aruba, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands,
Macau, Netherlands Antilles, Tokelau

United Nations Environment Program (UNEP):  established - 15 December
1972

aim - to promote international cooperation on all environmental matters

members - (58) selected on a rotating basis from all regions

United Nations General Assembly:  established - 26 June 1945; effective
- 24 October 1945

aim - to function as the primary deliberative organ of the UN

members - (192) all UN members are represented in the General Assembly

United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR):  established - 3
December 1949; effective - 1 January 1951

aim - to ensure the humanitarian treatment of refugees and find
permanent solutions to refugee problems

members (executive committee) - (76) Algeria, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China,
Colombia, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire,
Cyprus, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, Estonia, Ethiopia, Finland, France,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Holy See, Hungary, India, Iran,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, South Korea, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Madagascar, Mexico, Montenegro,
Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Nigeria,
Norway, Pakistan, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia,
Serbia, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland,
Tanzania, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, UK, US, Venezuela, Yemen,
Zambia

United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO):
established - 17 November 1966; effective - 1 January 1967

aim - UN specialized agency that promotes industrial development
especially among the members

members - (172) includes all UN member countries except Andorra,
Antigua and Barbuda, Australia, Brunei, Canada, Estonia, Iceland,
Kiribati, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Marshall Islands, Federated States of
Micronesia, Nauru, Palau, Samoa, San Marino, Singapore, Solomon
Islands, Tuvalu, US

United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR):
established - 11 December 1963 adoption of the resolution establishing
the Institute; effective - 24 March 1965

aim - to help the UN become more effective through training and
research

members (Board of Trustees) - (21) Algeria, Brazil, Burkino Faso,
China, Republic of the Congo, Cuba, Estonia, France (2), Ghana, India,
Iran, Japan, Kuwait, Norway, Russia, South Africa, Switzerland (2),
Thailand, US; note - the UN Secretary General can appoint up to 30
members

United Nations Integrated Mission in Timor-Leste (UNMIT):  established
- 25 August 2006

aim - to support the Government, to support the electoral process, to
ensure the restoration and maintenance of public security

members - (14) Australia, Bangladesh, Brazil, China, Fiji, India,
Malaysia, Nepal, NZ, Pakistan, Philippines, Portugal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore

United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK):
established - 10 June 1999

aim - to promote the establishment of substantial autonomy and self-
government in Kosovo; to perform basic civilian administrative
functions; to support the reconstruction of key infrastructure and
humanitarian and disaster relief

note - gives civilian support only; works closely with NATO Kosovo
Force (KFOR)

United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL):  established - 19
March 1978

aim - to confirm the withdrawal of Israeli forces, and assist in
reestablishing Lebanese authority in southern Lebanon; established by
the UN Security Council

members - (28) Belgium, China, Croatia, Cyprus, El Salvador, France,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Ireland,
Italy, South Korea, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malaysia, Nepal, Norway,
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Slovenia, Spain, Tanzania, Turkey

United Nations Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan (UNMOGIP):
established - 24 January 1949

aim - to observe the 1949 India-Pakistan cease-fire; established by the
UN Security Council

members - (8) Chile, Croatia, Denmark, Finland, Italy, South Korea,
Sweden, Uruguay

United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO):
established - 29 April 1991

aim - to supervise the cease-fire and conduct a referendum in Western
Sahara; established by the UN Security Council

members - (28) Argentina, Austria, Bangladesh, Brazil, China, Croatia,
Djibouti, Egypt, El Slavador, France, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Honduras,
Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Kenya, Malaysia, Mongolia, Nigeria, Pakistan,
Paraguay, Poland, Russia, Sri Lanka, Uruguay, Yemen

United Nations Mission in the Central African Republic and Chad
(MINURCAT):  established - 25 September 2007

aim - to create the security and conditions which will to contribute to
the protection of refugees, displaced persons, and citizens in danger,
to facilitate the provision of humanitarian assistance in eastern Chad
and the northeastern Central African Republic, to create favorable
conditions for the recontruction and economic and social development of
these areas

members - (22) Bangladesh, Bolivia, Brazil, Ecuador, Egypt, Gabon, The
Gambia, Ghana, Jordan, Kyrgyzstan, Mali, Nepal, Nigeria, Pakistan,
Poland, Portugal, Rwanda, Senegal, Spain, Uganda, Yemen, Zambia

United Nations Mission in Ethiopia and Eritrea (UNMEE):  established 31
July 2000; aim was to monitor the cessation of hostilities; mandate
ended July 2008; members were Algeria, Austria, Bangladesh, Bolivia,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Bulgaria, China, Croatia, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, The Gambia, Germany, Ghana, Greece,
Guatemala, India, Iran, Jordan, Kenya, Kyrgyzstan, Malaysia, Namibia,
Nepal, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Romania,
Russia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Tanzania, Tunisia,
Ukraine, US, Uruguay, Zambia

United Nations Mission in Liberia (UNMIL):  established - 19 September
2003

aim - to support the cease-fire agreement and peace process, protect UN
facilities and people, support humanitarian activities, and assist in
national security reform

members - (45) Bangladesh, Benin, Bolivia, Brazil, China, Croatia,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia,
Finland, France, Ghana, Indonesia, Jordan, Kenya, South Korea,
Kyrgyzstan, Malaysia, Mali, Moldova, Mongolia, Montenegro, Namibia,
Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Romania, Russia, Senegal, Serbia, Togo, Ukraine, UK, US, Yemen, Zambia,
Zimbabwe

United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone (UNAMSIL):  established on 22
October 1999; aim was to to cooperate with the Government of Sierra
Leone and the other parties to the Peace Agreement in the
implementation of the agreement; to monitor the military and security
situation in Sierra Leone; to monitor the disarmament and
demobilization of combatants and members of the Civil Defense Forces
(CFD); to assist in monitoring respect for international humanitarian
law; mandate ended 31 December 2005; members were Bangladesh, Bolivia,
China, Croatia, Czech Republic, Egypt, The Gambia, Germany, Ghana,
Guinea, Indonesia, Jordan, Kenya, Kyrgyzstan, Malaysia, Nepal, Nigeria,
Pakistan, Russia, Slovakia, Sweden, Tanzania, Thailand, Ukraine, UK,
Uruguay, Zambia

United Nations Mission in the Sudan (UNMIS):  established - March 2005

aim - to support implementation of the comprehensive Peace Agreement by
Monitoring and verifying the implementation of the Cease Fire
Agreement, by observing and monitoring movements of armed groups, and
by helping disarm, demobilizing and reintegrating armed bands

members - (61) Australia, Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Canada, China, Croatia,
Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, Germany,
Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, India, Indonesia, Jordan, Kenya, South
Korea, Kyrgyzstan, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Moldova, Mongolia,
Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Netherland, NZ, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Romania, Russia, Rwanda, Sri
Lanka, Sweden, Tanzania, Thailand, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, Uruguay,
UK, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe

United Nations Mission of Support in East Timor (UNMISET):  established
on 17 May 2002 to provide assistance to structures critical to public
security and to assist in the development of law enforcement agencies;
to contribute to extenal security; members were Australia, Bangladesh,
Bolivia, Brazil, Denmark, Fiji, Jordan, Malaysia, Mozambique, Nepal,
NZ, Pakistan, Philippines, Portugal, Russia, Sweden; completed its
mandate 20 May 2005

United Nations Monitoring, Verification, and Inspection Commission
(UNMOVIC):  formerly known as United Nations Special Commission for the
Elimination of Iraq's Weapons of Mass Destruction (UNSCOM); established
December 1999 with the aim to identify, account for, and eliminate
Iraq's weapons of mass destruction and the capacity to produce them;
commissioners were from Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, UN Department
for Disarmament Affairs, France, Germany, India, Japan, Mexico,
Nigeria, Russia, Senegal, Ukraine, UK, US; finished operations 29 June
2007

United Nations Observer Mission in Georgia (UNOMIG):  established - 24
August 1993

aim - to verify compliance with the cease-fire agreement, to monitor
weapons exclusion zone, and to supervise CIS peacekeeping force for
Abkhazia; established by the UN Security Council

members - (32) Albania, Austria, Bangladesh, Croatia, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Egypt, France, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Hungary, Indonesia,
Jordan, South Korea, Lithuania, Moldova, Mongolia, Nepal, Nigeria,
Pakistan, Poland, Romania, Russia, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey,
Ukraine, UK, US, Uruguay, Yemen

United Nations Operation in Burundi (ONUB):  was established 21 May
2004 to support and help implement the efforts undertaken by Burundians
to restore lasting peace and bring about national reconciliation;
members were Algeria, Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia, Burkina
Faso, Chad, China, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana,
Guatemala, Guinea, India, Jordan, Kenya, South Korea, Kyrgyzstan,
Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Mozambique, Nambia, Nepal, Netherlands, Niger,
Nigeria, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Romania,
Russia, Senegal, Serbia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Thailand,
Togo, Tunisia, Uruguay, Yemen, Zambia; mandate was completed 31
December 2006

United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the
Congo (MONUC):  established - 30 November 1999

aim - to establish contacts with the signatories to the cease-fire
agreement and to plan for the observation of the cease-fire and
disengagement of forces

members - (48) Algeria, Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Burkina Faso, Canada, China, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Egypt, France, Ghana, Guatemala, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Jordan,
Kenya, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal,
Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Romania, Russia,
Senegal, Serbia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland,
Tunisia, Ukraine, UK, Uruguay, Yemen, Zambia

United Nations Operation in Cote d'Ivoire (UNOCI):  established - 27
February 2004

aim - to facilitate the implementation by the Ivorian parties of the
peace agreement signed by them in January 2003

members - (41) Bangladesh, Benin, Bolivia, Brazil, Chad, China,
Croatia, Ecuador, El Salvador, Ethiopia, France, The Gambia, Ghana,
Guatemala, Guinea, India, Ireland, Jordan, Moldova, Morocco, Namibia,
Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Romania, Russia, Senegal, Serbia, Tanzania, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda,
Uruguay, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe

United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus (UNFICYP):  established - 4
March 1964

aim - to serve as a peacekeeping force between Greek Cypriots and
Turkish Cypriots in Cyprus; established by the UN Security Council

members - (7) Argentina, Austria, Canada, Croatia, Hungary, Slovakia,
UK

United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA):  note - acronym retained from
predecessor organization UN Fund for Population Activities

established - July 1967

aim - to assist both developed and developing countries to deal with
their population problems

members (executive board ) - (36) selected on a rotating basis from all
regions

United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the
Near East (UNRWA):  established - 8 December 1949

aim - to provide assistance to Palestinian refugees

members (advisory commission) - (22) Australia, Belgium, Canada,
Denmark, EC, Egypt, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Lebanon,
Netherlands, Norway, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria,
Turkey, UK, US

United Nations Research Institute for Social Development (UNRISD):
established - 1963

aim - to conduct research into the problems of economic development
during different phases of economic growth

members - no country members, but a Board of Directors consisting of a
chairman appointed by the UN secretary general and 12 individual
members

United Nations Secretariat:  established - 26 June 1945; effective - 24
October 1945

aim - to serve as the primary administrative organ of the UN; a
Secretary General is appointed for a five-year term by the General
Assembly on the recommendation of the Security Council

members - the UN Secretary General and staff

United Nations Security Council (UNSC):  established - 26 June 1945;
effective - 24 October 1945

aim - to maintain international peace and security

permanent members - (5) China, France, Russia, UK, US

nonpermanent members - (10) elected for two-year terms by the UN
General Assembly; Belgium (2007-08), Burkina Faso (2008-09), Costa Rica
(2008-09), Croatia (2008-09), Indonesia (2007-08), Italy (2007-08),
Libya (2008-09), Panama (2007-08), South Africa (2007-08), Vietnam
(2008-09); note - Austria, Japan, Mexico, Turkey and Uganda have been
elected by the General Assembly for two-year terms starting 1 January
2009

United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH):  established
- 30 April 2004

aim - to stabilize Haiti in many areas for at least six months

members - (17) Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Croatia,
Ecuador, France, Guatemala, Jordan, Nepal, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,
Sri Lanka, US, Uruguay

United Nations Truce Supervision Organization (UNTSO):  established -
June 1948

aim - to supervise the 1948 Arab-Israeli cease-fire; currently supports
timely deployment of reinforcements to other peacekeeping operations in
the region as needed; initially established by the UN Security Council

members - (23) Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Chile,
China, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Ireland, Italy, Nepal,
Netherlands, NZ, Norway, Russia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Sweden,
Switzerland, US

United Nations Trusteeship Council:  established on 26 June 1945,
effective on 24 October 1945, to supervise the administration of the 11
UN trust territories; members were China, France, Russia, UK, US; it
formally suspended operations 1 November 1995 after the Trust Territory
of the Pacific Islands (Palau) became the Republic of Palau, a
constitutional government in free association with the US; the
Trusteeship Council was not dissolved

United Nations University (UNU):  established - 3 December 1973

aim - to conduct research in development, welfare, and human survival
and to train scholars

members - (24 members of UNU Council and the Rector are appointed by
the Secretary General of the United Nations and the Director General of
UNESCO)

Universal Postal Union (UPU):  established - 9 October 1874, affiliated
with the UN 15 November 1947; effective - 1 July 1948

aim - to promote international postal cooperation; a UN specialized
agency

members - (191) includes all UN member countries except Andorra,
Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, and Palau (189
total); plus Holy See and Overseas Territories of the UK; note -
includes the following dependencies or areas of special interest:
Australia (Norfolk Island), China (Hong Kong, Macau), Denmark (Faroe
Islands, Greenland), France (French Polynesia including Clipperton
Island, French Southern and Antarctic Lands, Mayotte, New Caledonia,
Saint Barthelemy, Saint Martin, Saint Pierre and Miquelon, Scattered
Islands [Bassas da India, Europe, Juan de Nova, Glorioso Islands,
Tromelin], Wallis and Futuna), Netherlands (Aruba, Netherlands
Antilles), NZ (Cook Island, Niue, Tokelau), UK (Guernsey, Isle of Man,
Jersey; Anguilla, Bermuda, British Indian Ocean Territory, British
Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Falkland Islands, Gibraltar,
Montserrat, Pitcairn Islands, Saint Helena, South Georgia and South
Sandwich Islands, Turks and Caicos), US (American Samoa, Guam, Northern
Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands)

Warsaw Pact (WP):  established 14 May 1955 to promote mutual defense;
members met 1 July 1991 to dissolve the alliance; member states at the
time of dissolution were: Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland,
Romania, and the USSR; earlier members included German Democratic
Republic (GDR) and Albania

West African Development Bank (WADB):  note - also known as Banque
Ouest-Africaine de Developpement (BOAD); is a financial institution of
WAEMU

established - 14 November 1973

aim - to promote regional economic development and integration

regional members - (8) Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'Ivoire, Guinea-
Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo

West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU):  note - also known as
Union Economique et Monetaire Ouest Africaine (UEMOA)

established - 1 August 1994

aim - to increase competitiveness of members' economic markets; to
create a common market

members - (8) Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'Ivoire, Guinea-Bissau, Mali,
Niger, Senegal, Togo

Western European Union (WEU):  established - 23 October 1954; effective
- 6 May 1955

aim - to provide mutual defense and to move toward political
unification

members - (10) Belgium, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg,
Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, UK

associate members - (6) Czech Republic, Hungary, Iceland, Norway,
Poland, Turkey

associate partners - (7) Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania,
Slovakia, Slovenia

observers - (5) Austria, Denmark, Finland, Ireland, Sweden

World Bank Group:  includes International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD), International Development Association (IDA),
International Finance Corporation (IFC), and Multilateral Investment
Guarantee Agency (MIGA)

World Confederation of Labor (WCL):  established 19 June 1920 as the
International Federation of Christian Trade Unions (IFCTU), renamed 4
October 1968; aim was to promote the trade union movement; on 31
October 2006 it merged with the International Confederation of Free
Trade Unions (ICFTU) to form the International Trade Union
Confederation (ITUC); members were (105 national organizations) Antigua
and Barbuda, Argentina, Aruba, Austria, Bangladesh, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Canada,
Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Democratic Republic of
the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
El Salvador, France, French Guiana, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana,
Guadeloupe, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hong Kong,
Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, South Korea,
Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Malta, Martinique, Mauritania, Mauritius,
Mexico, Morocco, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, Netherlands Antilles,
Nicaragua, Niger, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Puerto Rico, Romania, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Serbia,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Suriname, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Ukraine, US, Uruguay, Venezuela, Vietnam, Zambia, Zimbabwe

World Customs Organization (WCO):  note - began as the Customs
Cooperation Council (CCC)

established - 15 December 1950

aim - to promote international cooperation in customs matters

members - (175) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola,
Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin,
Bermuda, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon,
Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the
Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, EC, Ecuador, Egypt, El
Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The
Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana,
Haiti, Honduras, Hong Kong, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran,
Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan,
Kenya, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Liberia, Libya, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macau, Macedonia, Madagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
Moldova, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal,
Netherlands, Netherlands Antilles, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Rwanda, Saint
Lucia, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Seychelles, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand,
Timor-Leste, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay, Uzbekistan,
Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe

World Federation of Trade Unions (WFTU):  established - 3 October 1945

aim - to promote the trade union movement

members - (174 and the Palestine Liberation Organization) Afghanistan,
Albania, Algeria, Angola, Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Armenia, Aruba, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bermuda, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Bonaire, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, British
Virgin Islands, Brunei, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Cayman Islands, Central African
Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of
the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Cook Islands, Costa Rica, Cote
d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Curacao, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France,
French Guiana, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece,
Grenada, Guadeloupe, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti,
Holy See, Honduras, Hong Kong, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia,
Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan,
Kenya, North Korea, South Korea, Kosovo, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos,
Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macau,
Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Martinique, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mayotte, Mexico, Moldovo, Monaco,
Mongolia, Montenegro, Montserrat, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal,
Netherlands, New Caledonia, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway,
Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Puerto Rico, Qatar, Reunion, Romania, Russia, Rwanda,
Saint Barthelemy, Saint Eustatius, Saint Helena, Saint Kitts and Nevis,
Saint Lucia, Saint Martaan, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, San
Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia,
Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Somalia,
Somaliland, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland,
Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Tahiti, Taiwan, Tajikistan, Tanzania,
Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK, US, US Virgin Islands,
Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Wallis and Futuna,
Western Sahara, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Palestine Liberation
Organization

World Food Program (WFP):  established - 24 November 1961

aim - to provide food aid in support of economic development or
disaster relief; an ECOSOC organization

members - (36) selected on a rotating basis from all regions

World Health Organization (WHO):  established - 22 July 1946; effective
- 7 April 1948

aim - to deal with health matters worldwide; a UN specialized agency

members - (193) includes all UN member countries except Liechtenstein
(191 total); plus Cook Islands and Niue

World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO):  established - 14 July
1967; effective - 26 April 1970

aim - to furnish protection for literary, artistic, and scientific
works; a UN specialized agency

members - (184) includes all UN member countries except Kiribati,
Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Nauru, Palau, Solomon
Islands, Timor-Leste, Tuvalu, Vanuatu (183 total); plus Holy See

World Meteorological Organization (WMO):  established - 11 October
1947; effective - 4 April 1951

aim - to sponsor meteorological cooperation; a UN specialized agency

members - (188) includes all UN member countries except Andorra,
Equatorial Guinea, Grenada, Liechtenstein, Marshall Islands, Nauru,
Palau, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, San
Marino, Timor-Leste, Tuvalu (180 total); plus Aruba and the Netherlands
Antilles, British Caribbean Territories, Cook Islands, French
Polynesia, Hong Kong, Macau, New Caledonia, and Niue

World Tourism Organization (UNWTO):  established - 2 January 1975

aim - to promote tourism as a means of contributing to economic
development, international understanding, and peace

members - (154) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola,
Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad,
Chile, China, Colombia, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of
the Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, France, Gabon, The Gambia,
Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Italy,
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, North Korea, South Korea,
Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libya, Lithuania,
Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro,
Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Rwanda,
San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia,
Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri
Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Switzerland, Syria, Tajikistan, Tanzania,
Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uganda,
Ukraine, UK, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Zambia,
Zimbabwe

associate members - (7) Aruba, Flanders, Hong Kong, Macau, Madeira
Islands, Netherlands Antilles, Puerto Rico

observers - (1 plus Palestine Liberation Organization) Holy See,
Palestine Liberation Organization

World Trade Organization (WTO):  note - succeeded General Agreement on
Tariff and Trade (GATT)

established - 15 April 1994; effective - 1 January 1995

aim - to provide a forum to resolve trade conflicts between members and
to carry on negotiations with the goal of further lowering and/or
eliminating tariffs and other trade barriers

members - (153) Albania, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium,
Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria, Burkina
Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central
African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Democratic Republic of
the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia,
Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Estonia, EC, Fiji, Finland,
France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hong Kong,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica,
Japan, Jordan, Kenya, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lesotho,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macau, Macedonia, Madagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
Moldova, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands,
NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua
New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar,
Romania, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and
the Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Tanzania, Thailand,
Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine,
UAE, UK, US, Uruguay, Venezuela, Vietnam, Zambia, Zimbabwe

observers - (30) Afghanistan, Algeria, Andorra, Azerbaijan, The
Bahamas, Belarus, Bhutan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Comoros, Equatorial
Guinea, Ethiopia, Holy See, Iran, Iraq, Kazakhstan, Laos, Lebanon,
Liberia, Libya, Montenegro, Russia, Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe,
Serbia, Seychelles, Sudan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Yemen; note
- with the exception of the Holy See, an observer must start accession
negotiations within five years of becoming observers

Zangger Committee (ZC):  established - early 1970s

aim - to establish guidelines for the export control provisions of the
Nonproliferation of Nuclear Weapons Treaty (NPT)

members - (36) Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria,
Canada, China, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Japan, South Korea,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia,
Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey,
Ukraine, UK, US

observers - (1) European Commission


This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008



=====================================================================



Appendix C - Selected International Environmental Agreements


Air Pollution

see Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution


Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides

see Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air
Pollution Concerning the Control of Emissions of Nitrogen Oxides or
Their Transboundary Fluxes


Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants

see Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air
Pollution on Persistent Organic Pollutants


Air Pollution-Sulphur 85

see Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air
Pollution on the Reduction of Sulphur Emissions or Their Transboundary
Fluxes by at least 30%


Air Pollution-Sulphur 94

see Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air
Pollution on Further Reduction of Sulphur Emissions


Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds

see Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air
Pollution Concerning the Control of Emissions of Volatile Organic
Compounds or Their Transboundary Fluxes


Antarctic - Environmental Protocol

see Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty


Antarctic Treaty

opened for signature - 1 December 1959


entered into force - 23 June 1961


objective - to ensure that Antarctica is used for peaceful purposes
only (such as international cooperation in scientific research); to
defer the question of territorial claims asserted by some nations and
not recognized by others; to provide an international forum for
management of the region; applies to land and ice shelves south of 60
degrees south latitude


parties - (45) Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil,
Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Cuba, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Ecuador, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala,
Hungary, India, Italy, Japan, North Korea, South Korea, Netherlands,
NZ, Norway, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Poland, Romania, Russia, Slovakia,
South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, UK, US,
Uruguay, Venezuela


Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous
Wastes and Their Disposal

note - abbreviated as Hazardous Wastes


opened for signature - 22 March 1989


entered into force - 5 May 1992


objective - to reduce transboundary movements of wastes subject to the
Convention to a minimum consistent with the environmentally sound and
efficient management of such wastes; to minimize the amount and
toxicity of wastes generated and ensure their environmentally sound
management as closely as possible to the source of generation; and to
assist LDCs in environmentally sound management of the hazardous and
other wastes they generate


parties - (167) Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central
African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Democratic
Republic of the Congo, Cook Islands, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire,
Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea,
Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, EU, Finland, France, The Gambia, Georgia,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary,
Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica,
Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kiribati, South Korea, Kuwait,
Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
Federated States of Micronesia, Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro,
Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia,
Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Seychelles,
Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Tanzania, Thailand, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK,
Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Zambia


countries that have signed, but not yet ratified - (3) Afghanistan,
Haiti, US


Biodiversity

see Convention on Biological Diversity


Climate Change

see United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change


Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

see Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on
Climate Change


Convention for the Conservation of Antarctic Seals

note - abbreviated as Antarctic Seals


opened for signature - 1 June 1972


entered into force - 11 March 1978


objective - to promote and achieve the protection, scientific study,
and rational use of Antarctic seals, and to maintain a satisfactory
balance within the ecological system of Antarctica


parties - (16) Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile,
France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Norway, Poland, Russia, South Africa,
UK, US


countries that have signed, but not yet ratified - (1) NZ


Convention on Biological Diversity

note - abbreviated as Biodiversity


opened for signature - 5 June 1992


entered into force - 29 December 1993


objective - to develop national strategies for the conservation and
sustainable use of biological diversity


parties - (186) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua
and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon,
Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the
Congo, Cook Islands, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia,
Ethiopia, EU, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran,
Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan,
Kenya, Kiribati, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos,
Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Federated
States of Micronesia, Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Niue, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia,
Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Serbia, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia,
Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Tajikistan,
Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK, Uruguay, Uzbekistan,
Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe


countries that have signed, but not yet ratified - (1) US


Convention on Fishing and Conservation of Living Resources of the High
Seas

note - abbreviated as Marine Life Conservation


opened for signature - 29 April 1958


entered into force - 20 March 1966


objective - to solve through international cooperation the problems
involved in the conservation of living resources of the high seas,
considering that because of the development of modern technology some
of these resources are in danger of being overexploited


parties - (38) Australia, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Burkina
Faso, Cambodia, Colombia, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Fiji, Finland,
France, Haiti, Indonesia, Jamaica, Kenya, Lesotho, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Mauritius, Mexico, Netherlands, Nigeria, Portugal, Senegal,
Serbia, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain,
Switzerland, Thailand, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, UK, US,
Venezuela


countries that have signed, but not yet ratified - (20) Afghanistan,
Argentina, Bolivia, Canada, Costa Rica, Cuba, Ghana, Iceland, Iran,
Ireland, Israel, Lebanon, Liberia, Nepal, NZ, Pakistan, Panama, Sri
Lanka, Tunisia, Uruguay


Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution

note - abbreviated as Air Pollution


opened for signature - 13 November 1979


entered into force - 16 March 1983


objective - to protect the human environment against air pollution and
to gradually reduce and prevent air pollution, including long-range
transboundary air pollution


parties - (49) Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia
and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Estonia, EU, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece,
Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova,
Monaco, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Serbia,
Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, UK, US


countries that have signed, but not yet ratified - (2) Holy See, San
Marino


Convention on Wetlands of International Importance Especially as
Waterfowl Habitat (Ramsar)

note - abbreviated as Wetlands


opened for signature - 2 February 1971


entered into force - 21 December 1975


objective - to stem the progressive encroachment on and loss of
wetlands now and in the future, recognizing the fundamental ecological
functions of wetlands and their economic, cultural, scientific, and
recreational value


parties - (153) Albania, Algeria, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Bosnia
and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad,
Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo,
Republic of the Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France,
Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya,
South Korea, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal,
Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Palau,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Russia, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Samoa, Sao Tome and
Principe, Senegal, Serbia, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Slovakia,
Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden,
Switzerland, Syria, Tanzania, Tajikistan, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, UK, US, Uruguay, Uzbekistan,
Venezuela, Vietnam, Zambia


Convention on the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources

note - abbreviated as Antarctic-Marine Living Resources


opened for signature - 5 May 1980


entered into force - 7 April 1982


objective - to safeguard the environment and protect the integrity of
the ecosystem of the seas surrounding Antarctica, and to conserve
Antarctic marine living resources


parties - (31) Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada,
Chile, EU, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, India, Italy, Japan, South
Korea, Mauritius, Namibia, Netherlands, NZ, Norway, Peru, Poland,
Russia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Ukraine, UK, US, Uruguay, Vanuatu


Convention on the International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild
Flora and Fauna (CITES)

note - abbreviated as Endangered Species


opened for signature - 3 March 1973


entered into force - 1 July 1975


objective - to protect certain endangered species from overexploitation
by means of a system of import/export permits


parties - (168) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The Bahamas, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia,
Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile,
China, Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of
the Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana,
Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Honduras,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, South Korea, Kuwait, Laos,
Latvia, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and
Nevis, Palau, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Sao Tome
and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Seychelles, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Tanzania,
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine,
UAE, UK, US, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen,
Zambia, Zimbabwe


Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping Wastes and
Other Matter (London Convention)

note - abbreviated as Marine Dumping


opened for signature - 29 December 1972


entered into force - 30 August 1975


objective - to control pollution of the sea by dumping and to encourage
regional agreements supplementary to the Convention; the London
Convention came into force in 1996


parties - (88) Afghanistan, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Australia, Azerbaijan, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil,
Bulgaria, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Democratic Republic of the
Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Denmark,
Dominican Republic, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Finland, France, Gabon,
Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Hong Kong (associate
member), Hungary, Iceland, Iran, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan,
Jordan, Kenya, Kiribati, South Korea, Libya, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico,
Monaco, Montenegro, Morocco, Nauru, Netherlands, NZ, Nigeria, Norway,
Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Russia, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and
the Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Seychelles, Slovenia, Solomon
Islands, South Africa, Spain, Suriname, Sweden, Switzerland, Tonga,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Ukraine, UAE, UK, US, Vanuatu


associate members to the London Convention - (2) Faroe Islands, Macau
countries that have signed, but not yet ratified - (3) Chad, Kuwait,
Uruguay


Convention on the Prohibition of Military or Any Other Hostile Use of
Environmental Modification Techniques

note - abbreviated as Environmental Modification


opened for signature - 10 December 1976


entered into force - 5 October 1978


objective - to prohibit the military or other hostile use of
environmental modification techniques in order to further world peace
and trust among nations


parties - (68) Afghanistan, Algeria, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Australia, Austria, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Brazil,
Brunei, Bulgaria, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Dominica, Egypt, Finland, Germany, Ghana,
Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, India, Ireland, Italy, Japan, North Korea,
South Korea, Kuwait, Laos, Malawi, Mauritius, Mongolia, Netherlands,
NZ, Niger, Norway, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Poland, Romania, Russia,
Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe,
Slovakia, Solomon Islands, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland,
Tajikistan, Tunisia, Ukraine, UK, US, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vietnam,
Yemen


countries that have signed, but not yet ratified - (17) Bolivia,
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia, Holy See, Iceland, Iran,
Iraq, Lebanon, Liberia, Luxembourg, Morocco, Nicaragua, Portugal,
Sierra Leone, Syria, Turkey, Uganda


Desertification

see United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in those
Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification,
Particularly in Africa


Endangered Species

see Convention on the International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild
Flora and Fauna (CITES)


Environmental Modification

see Convention on the Prohibition of Military or Any Other Hostile Use
of Environmental Modification Techniques


Hazardous Wastes

see Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of
Hazardous Wastes and Their Disposal


International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling

note - abbreviated as Whaling


opened for signature - 2 December 1946


entered into force - 10 November 1948


objective - to protect all species of whales from overhunting; to
establish a system of international regulation for the whale fisheries
to ensure proper conservation and development of whale stocks; and to
safeguard for future generations the great natural resources
represented by whale stocks


parties - (72) Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Belgium, Belize, Benin, Brazil, Cambodia, Cameroon, Chile, China, Costa
Rica, Cote D'Ivoire, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Dominica,
Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Germany, Grenada, Guatemala,
Guinea, Hungary, Iceland, India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kenya,
Kiribati, South Korea, Mali, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mexico,
Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Nauru, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Norway,
Oman, Palau, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Russia, Saint Kitts
and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, San Marino,
Senegal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain,
Suriname, Sweden, Switzerland, Togo, Tuvalu, UK, US


International Tropical Timber Agreement, 1983

note - abbreviated as Tropical Timber 83


opened for signature - 18 November 1983


entered into force - 1 April 1985; this agreement expired when the
International Tropical Timber Agreement, 1994, went into force


objective - to provide an effective framework for cooperation between
tropical timber producers and consumers and to encourage the
development of national policies aimed at sustainable utilization and
conservation of tropical forests and their genetic resources


parties - (54) Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma,
Cameroon, Canada, China, Colombia, Democratic Republic of the Congo,
Republic of the Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, EU,
Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guyana, Honduras,
India, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Liberia,
Luxembourg, Malaysia, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Norway, Panama, Papua New
Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Russia, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, UK, US, Venezuela


International Tropical Timber Agreement, 1994

note - abbreviated as Tropical Timber 94


opened for signature - 26 January 1994


entered into force - 1 January 1997


objective - to ensure that by the year 2000 exports of tropical timber
originate from sustainably managed sources; to establish a fund to
assist tropical timber producers in obtaining the resources necessary
to reach this objective


parties - (58) Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, China, Colombia,
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Cote d'Ivoire,
Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, EU, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Germany,
Ghana, Greece, Guyana, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy,
Japan, South Korea, Liberia, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Nepal, Netherlands,
NZ, Norway, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Portugal,
Spain, Suriname, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, UK, US, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela


Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change

note - abbreviated as Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol


opened for signature - 16 March 1998


entered into force - 23 February 2005


objective - to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions by enhancing the
national programs of developed countries aimed at this goal and by
establishing percentage reduction targets for the developed countries


parties - (181) Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina
Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Cental
African Republic, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Cote d'Ivoire,
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Cook Island,
Costa Rica, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti,
Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial
Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, EU, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon,
The Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,
India, Indonesia, Iran, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kenya, Kiribati, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos,
Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Federated
States of Micronesia, Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco,
Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Niue, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia,
Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Seychelles, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa,
Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland,
Syria, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK, Uruguay, Uzbekistan,
Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Zambia


countries that have signed, but not yet ratified - (4) Kazakhstan, US


Law of the Sea

see United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (LOS)


Marine Dumping

see Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping Wastes
and Other Matter (London Convention)


Marine Life Conservation

see Convention on Fishing and Conservation of Living Resources of the
High Seas


Montreal Protocol on Substances That Deplete the Ozone Layer

note - abbreviated as Ozone Layer Protection


opened for signature - 16 September 1987


entered into force - 1 January 1989


objective - to protect the ozone layer by controlling emissions of
substances that deplete it


parties - (189) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei,
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada,
Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Cook
Islands, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, EU,
Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana,
Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kiribati, North
Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Federated States of Micronesia, Moldova,
Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal,
Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan,
Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint
Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri
Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria,
Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK, US,
Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Zambia,
Zimbabwe


Nuclear Test Ban

see Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapons Tests in the Atmosphere, in Outer
Space, and Under Water


Ozone Layer Protection

see Montreal Protocol on Substances That Deplete the Ozone Layer


Protocol of 1978 Relating to the International Convention for the
Prevention of Pollution From Ships, 1973 (MARPOL)

note - abbreviated as Ship Pollution


opened for signature - 17 February 1978


entered into force - 2 October 1983


objective - to preserve the marine environment through the complete
elimination of pollution by oil and other harmful substances and the
minimization of accidental discharge of such substances


parties - (139) Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria,
Burma, Cambodia, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros,
Republic of Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Estonia, Faroe Islands, Finland, France,
Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guyana, Honduras, Hong Kong, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, North Korea,
South Korea, Latvia, Lebanon, Liberia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Libya,
Macau, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Malta, Marshall Islands,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro,
Morocco, Mozambique, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar Romania, Russia, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia,
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia,
Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Sweden,
Switzerland, Syria, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Tuvalu, Ukraine, UK, US, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam


Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty

note - abbreviated as Antarctic-Environmental Protocol


opened for signature - 4 October 1991


entered into force - 14 January 1998


objective - to provide for comprehensive protection of the Antarctic
environment and dependent and associated ecosystems; applies to the
area covered by the Antarctic Treaty


consultative parties - (31) Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil,
Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, China, Czech Republic, Ecuador, Finland,
France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Netherlands, NZ,
Norway, Peru, Poland, Romania, Russia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden,
Ukraine, UK, US, Uruguay


non consultative parties - (12) Austria, Colombia, Cuba, Denmark,
Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, North Korea, Papua New Guinea, Slovakia,
Switzerland, Turkey


Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air
Pollution Concerning the Control of Emissions of Nitrogen Oxides or
Their Transboundary Fluxes

note - abbreviated as Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides


opened for signature - 31 October 1988


entered into force - 14 February 1991


objective - to provide for the control or reduction of nitrogen oxides
and their transboundary fluxes


parties - (31) Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Cyprus,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, EU, Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Netherlands, Norway, Russia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland, Ukraine, UK, US


countries that have signed, but not yet ratified - (1) Poland


Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air
Pollution Concerning the Control of Emissions of Volatile Organic
Compounds or Their Transboundary Fluxes

note - abbreviated as Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds


opened for signature - 18 November 1991


entered into force - 29 September 1997


objective - to provide for the control and reduction of emissions of
volatile organic compounds in order to reduce their transboundary
fluxes so as to protect human health and the environment from adverse
effects


parties - (21) Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Liechtenstein,
Luxembourg, Monaco, Netherlands, Norway, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland, UK


countries that have signed, but not yet ratified - (6) Canada, EU,
Greece, Portugal, Ukraine, US


Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air
Pollution on Further Reduction of Sulphur Emissions

note - abbreviated as Air Pollution-Sulphur 94


opened for signature - 14 June 1994


entered into force - 5 August 1998


objective - to provide for a further reduction in sulfur emissions or
transboundary fluxes


parties - (27) Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus,
Czech Republic, Denmark, EU, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary,
Ireland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, Netherlands, Norway,
Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, UK


countries that have signed, but not yet ratified - (3) Poland, Russia,
Ukraine


Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air
Pollution on Persistent Organic Pollutants

note - abbreviated as Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants


opened for signature - 24 June 1998


entered into force - 23 October 2003


objective - to provide for the control and reduction of emissions of
persistent organic pollutants in order to reduce their transboundary
fluxes so as to protect human health and the environment from adverse
effects


parties - (27) Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Estonia, EU, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary,
Iceland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Moldova,
Netherlands, Norway, Romania, Slovakia, Sweden, Switzerland, UK


countries that have signed, but not yet ratified - (10) Armenia,
Croatia, Greece, Ireland, Philippines Poland, Portugal, Spain, Ukraine,
US


Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air
Pollution on the Reduction of Sulphur Emissions or Their Transboundary
Fluxes by at Least 30%

note - abbreviated as Air Pollution-Sulphur 85


opened for signature - 8 July 1985


entered into force - 2 September 1987


objective - to provide for a 30% reduction in sulfur emissions or
transboundary fluxes by 1993


parties - (22) Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy,
Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Russia, Slovakia,
Sweden, Switzerland, Ukraine


Ship Pollution

see Protocol of 1978 Relating to the International Convention for the
Prevention of Pollution From Ships, 1973 (MARPOL)


Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space,
and Under Water

note - abbreviated as Nuclear Test Ban


opened for signature - 5 August 1963


entered into force - 10 October 1963


objective - to obtain an agreement on general and complete disarmament
under strict international control in accordance with the objectives of
the United Nations; to put an end to the armaments race and eliminate
incentives for the production and testing of all kinds of weapons,
including nuclear weapons


parties - (113) Afghanistan, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia,
Australia, Austria, The Bahamas, Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma,
Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, China, Colombia, Democratic
Republic of the Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El
Salvador, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, The Gambia, Germany, Ghana, Greece,
Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, South Korea,
Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon, Liberia, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Morocco, Nepal,
Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Panama, Papua New
Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Romania, Russia, Rwanda, Samoa, San
Marino, Senegal, Serbia, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia,
Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland,
Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, UK, US, Venezuela, Zambia


countries that have signed, but not yet ratified - (17) Algeria,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Chile, Ethiopia, Haiti, Libya, Mali,
Pakistan, Paraguay, Portugal, Somalia, Tanzania, Uruguay, Vietnam,
Yemen


Tropical Timber 83

see International Tropical Timber Agreement, 1983


Tropical Timber 94

see International Tropical Timber Agreement, 1994


United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (LOS)

note - abbreviated as Law of the Sea


opened for signature - 10 December 1982


entered into force - 16 November 1994


objective - to set up a comprehensive new legal regime for the sea and
oceans; to include rules concerning environmental standards as well as
enforcement provisions dealing with pollution of the marine environment


parties - (155) Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, The Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Bosnia
and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burma, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Comoros, Democratic
Republic of the Congo, Cook Islands, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire,
Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica,
Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Estonia, EU, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon,
The Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,
India, Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya,
Kiribati, South Korea, Kuwait, Laos, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Federated
States of Micronesia, Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco,
Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Nigeria,
Niue, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Saint
Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa,
Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Seychelles,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia,
South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Tanzania,
Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Tuvalu, Uganda, Ukraine, UK,
Uruguay, Vanuatu, Vietnam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe


countries that have signed, but not yet ratified - (27) Afghanistan,
Bangladesh, Bhutan, Burundi, Cambodia, Central African Republic, Chad,
Colombia, Republic of the Congo, Dominican Republic, El Salvador,
Ethiopia, Iran, North Korea, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein,
Madagascar, Malawi, Morocco, Niger, Rwanda, Swaziland, Switzerland,
Thailand, UAE


United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries
Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in
Africa

note - abbreviated as Desertification


opened for signature - 14 October 1994


entered into force - 26 December 1996


objective - to combat desertification and mitigate the effects of
drought through national action programs that incorporate long-term
strategies supported by international cooperation and partnership
arrangements


parties - (185) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua
and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon,
Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the
Congo, Cook Islands, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, EU,
Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana,
Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kiribati, South
Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya,
Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
Federated States of Micronesia, Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Niue, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda,
Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines,
Samoa, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon
Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland,
Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Thailand, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Timor-
Leste, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan,
Tuvalu, Uganda, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela,
Vietnam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe


United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change

note - abbreviated as Climate Change


opened for signature - 9 May 1992


entered into force - 21 March 1994


objective - to achieve stabilization of greenhouse gas concentrations
in the atmosphere at a low enough level to prevent dangerous
anthropogenic interference with the climate system


parties - (195) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon,
Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the
Congo, Cook Islands, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia,
Ethiopia, EU, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Guyana, Haiti, Holy See, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia,
Iraq, Iran, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan,
Kenya, Kiribati, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos,
Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Federated
States of Micronesia, Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco,
Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Niue, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia,
Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Serbia, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia,
Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Tajikistan,
Tanzania, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK, US,
Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Zambia,
Zimbabwe


Wetlands

see Convention on Wetlands of International Importance Especially As
Waterfowl Habitat (Ramsar)


Whaling

see International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling


This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008



=====================================================================


Appendix D - Cross-Reference list of Country Data Codes


FIPS 10: Countries, Dependencies, Areas of Special Sovereignty, and
Their Principal Administrative Divisions (FIPS 10) is maintained by the
Office of Targeting and Transnational Issues, National Geospatial-
Intelligence Agency, and published by the National Institute of
Standards and Technology (Department of Commerce). FIPS 10 codes are
intended for general use throughout the US Government, especially in
activities associated with the mission of the Department of State and
national defense programs.

ISO 3166:Codes for the Representation of Names of Countries (ISO 3166)
is prepared by the International Organization for Standardization. ISO
3166 includes two- and three-character alphabetic codes and three-digit
numeric codes that may be needed for activities involving exchange of
data with international organizations that have adopted that standard.
Except for the numeric codes, ISO 3166 codes have been adopted in the
US as FIPS 104-1: American National Standard Codes for the
Representation of Names of Countries, Dependencies, and Areas of
Special Sovereignty for Information Interchange.

STANAG 1059: Letter Codes for Geographical Entities (8th edition, 2004)
is a Standardization Agreement (STANAG) established and maintained by
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO/OTAN) for the purpose of
providing a common set of geo-spatial identifiers for countries,
territories, and possessions. The 8th edition established trigraph
codes for each country based upon the ISO 3166-1 alpha-3 character
sets. These codes are used throughout NATO.

Internet:  The Internet country code is the two-letter digraph
maintained by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO)
in the ISO 3166 Alpha-2 list and used by the Internet Assigned Numbers
Authority (IANA) to establish country-coded top-level domains (ccTLDs).




                                                STANAG-
Entity              FIPS 10  |    ISO 3166    |  1059     Internet  Comment


Afghanistan         AF        AF    AFG   004     AFG       .af
Albania             AL        AL    ALB   008     ALB       .al
Algeria             AG        DZ    DZA   012     DZA       .dz
American Samoa      AQ        AS    ASM   016     ASM       .as
Andorra             AN        AD    AND   020     AND       .ad
Angola              AO        AO    AGO   024     AGO       .ao
Anguilla            AV        AI    AIA   660     AIA       .ai
Antarctica          AY        AQ    ATA   010     ATA       .aq
  ISO defines as the territory south of 60 degrees south latitude

Antigua and Barbuda AC        AG    ATG   028     ATG       .ag
Argentina           AR        AR    ARG   032     ARG       .ar
Armenia             AM        AM    ARM   051     ARM       .am
Aruba               AA        AW    ABW   533     ABW       .aw
Ashmore and Cartier
  Islands           AT        -     -     -       AUS       -
  ISO includes with Australia

Australia           AS        AU    AUS   036     AUS       .au
  ISO includes Ashmore and Cartier Islands, Coral Sea Islands

Austria             AU        AT    AUT   040     AUT       .at
Azerbaijan          AJ        AZ    AZE   031     AZE       .az
Bahamas, The        BF        BS    BHS   044     BHS       .bs
Bahrain             BA        BH    BHR   048     BHR       .bh
Baker Island        FQ        -     -     -       UMI       -
  ISO includes with the US Minor Outlying Islands

Bangladesh          BG        BD    BGD   050     BGD       .bd
Barbados            BB        BB    BRB   052     BRB       .bb
Bassas da India     BS        -     -     -       -         -
  administered as part of French Southern and Antarctic Lands;
  no ISO codes assigned

Belarus             BO        BY    BLR   112     BLR       .by
Belgium             BE        BE    BEL   056     BEL       .be
Belize              BH        BZ    BLZ   084     BLZ       .bz
Benin               BN        BJ    BEN   204     BEN       .bj
Bermuda             BD        BM    BMU   060     BMU       .bm
Bhutan              BT        BT    BTN   064     BTN       .bt
Bolivia             BL        BO    BOL   068     BOL       .bo
Bosnia and
  Herzegovina       BK        BA    BIH   070     BIH       .ba
Botswana            BC        BW    BWA   072     BWA       .bw
Bouvet Island       BV        BV    BVT   074     BVT       .bv
Brazil              BR        BR    BRA   076     BRA       .br
British Indian
  Ocean
  Territory         IO        IO    IOT   086     IOT       .io
British Virgin
  Islands           VI        VG    VGB   092     VGB       .vg
Brunei              BX        BN    BRN   096     BRN       .bn
Bulgaria            BU        BG    BGR   100     BGR       .bg
Burkina Faso        UV        BF    BFA   854     BFA       .bf
Burma               BM        MM    MMR   104     MMR       .mm
  ISO uses the name Myanmar

Burundi             BY        BI    BDI   108     BDI       .bi
Cambodia            CB        KH    KHM   116     KHM       .kh
Cameroon            CM        CM    CMR   120     CMR       .cm
Canada              CA        CA    CAN   124     CAN       .ca
Cape Verde          CV        CV    CPV   132     CPV       .cv
Cayman Islands      CJ        KY    CYM   136     CYM       .ky
Central African
  Republic          CT        CF    CAF   140     CAF       .cf
Chad                CD        TD    TCD   148     TCD       .td
Chile               CI        CL    CHL   152     CHL       .cl
China               CH        CN    CHN   156     CHN       .cn
  see also Taiwan

Christmas Island    KT        CX    CXR   162     CXR       .cx
Clipperton Island   IP        -     -     -       FYP       -
  ISO includes with French Polynesia

Cocos (Keeling) IslandsCK     CC    CCK   166     AUS       .cc
Colombia            CO        CO    COL   170     COL       .co
Comoros             CN        KM    COM   174     COM       .km
Congo, Democratic
  Republic of the   CG        CD    COD   180     COD       .cd
  formerly Zaire

Congo,
  Republic of the   CF        CG    COG   178     COG       .cg
Cook Islands        CW        CK    COK   184     COK       .ck
Coral Sea Islands   CR        -     -     -       AUS       -
  ISO includes with Australia

Costa Rica          CS        CR    CRI   188     CRI       .cr
Cote d'Ivoire       IV        CI    CIV   384     CIV       .ci
Croatia             HR        HR    HRV   191     HRV       .hr
Cuba                CU        CU    CUB   192     CUB       .cu
Cyprus              CY        CY    CYP   196     CYP       .cy
Czech Republic      EZ        CZ    CZE   203     CZE       .cz
Denmark             DA        DK    DNK   208     DNK       .dk
Djibouti            DJ        DJ    DJI   262     DJI       .dj
Dominica            DO        DM    DMA   212     DMA       .dm
Dominican Republic  DR        DO    DOM   214     DOM       .do
Ecuador             EC        EC    ECU   218     ECU       .ec
Egypt               EG        EG    EGY   818     EGY       .eg
El Salvador         ES        SV    SLV   222     SLV       .sv
Equatorial Guinea   EK        GQ    GNQ   226     GNQ       .gq
Eritrea             ER        ER    ERI   232     ERI       .er
Estonia             EN        EE    EST   233     EST       .ee
Ethiopia            ET        ET    ETH   231     ETH       .et
Europa Island       EU        -     -     -       -         -
  administered as part of French Southern and Antarctic Lands;
  no ISO codes assigned

Falkland Islands
  (Islas Malvinas)  FK        FK    FLK   238     FLK       .fk
Faroe Islands       FO        FO    FRO   234     FRO       .fo
Fiji                FJ        FJ    FJI   242     FJI       .fj
Finland             FI        FI    FIN   246     FIN       .fi
France              FR        FR    FRA   250     FRA       .fr
France,
  Metropolitan      -         FX    FXX   249     -         .fx
  ISO limits to the European part of France, excluding French
  Guiana, French Polynesia, French Southern and Antarctic Lands,
  Guadeloupe, Martinique, Mayotte, New Caledonia, Reunion, Saint
  Pierre and Miquelon, Wallis and Futuna

French Guiana       FG        GF    GUF   254     GUF       .gf
French Polynesia    FP        PF    PYF   258     PYF       .pf
  ISO includes Clipperton Island

French Southern
  and Antarctic
  Lands             FS        TF    ATF   260     ATF       .tf
  FIPS 10-4 does not include the French-claimed portion of
  Antarctica (Terre Adelie)

Gabon               GB        GA    GAB   266     GAB       .ga
Gambia, The         GA        GM    GMB   270     GMB       .gm
Gaza Strip          GZ        PS    PSE   275     PSE       .ps
  ISO identifies as Occupied Palestinian Territory

Georgia             GG        GE    GEO   268     GEO       .ge
Germany             GM        DE    DEU   276     DEU       .de
Ghana               GH        GH    GHA   288     GHA       .gh
Gibraltar           GI        GI    GIB   292     GIB       .gi
Glorioso Islands    GO        -     -     -       -         -
  administered as part of French Southern and Antarctic Lands;
  no ISO codes assigned

Greece              GR        GR    GRC   300     GRC       .gr
Greenland           GL        GL    GRL   304     GRL       .gl
Grenada             GJ        GD    GRD   308     GRD       .gd
Guadeloupe          GP        GP    GLP   312     GLP       .gp
Guam                GQ        GU    GUM   316     GUM       .gu
Guatemala           GT        GT    GTM   320     GTM       .gt
Guernsey            GK        GG    GGY   831     UK        .gg
Guinea              GV        GN    GIN   324     GIN       .gn
Guinea-Bissau       PU        GW    GNB   624     GNB       .gw
Guyana              GY        GY    GUY   328     GUY       .gy
Haiti               HA        HT    HTI   332     HTI       .ht
Heard Island and
  McDonald Islands  HM        HM    HMD   334     HMD       .hm
Holy See
  (Vatican City)    VT        VA    VAT   336     VAT       .va
Honduras            HO        HN    HND   340     HND       .hn
Hong Kong           HK        HK    HKG   344     HKG       .hk
Howland Island      HQ        -     -     -       UMI       -
  ISO includes with the US Minor Outlying Islands

Hungary             HU        HU    HUN   348     HUN       .hu
Iceland             IC        IS    ISL   352     ISL       .is
India               IN        IN    IND   356     IND       .in
Indonesia           ID        ID    IDN   360     IDN       .id
Iran                IR        IR    IRN   364     IRN       .ir
Iraq                IZ        IQ    IRQ   368     IRQ       .iq
Ireland             EI        IE    IRL   372     IRL       .ie
Isle of Man         IM        IM    IMN   833     UK        .im
Israel              IS        IL    ISR   376     ISR       .il
Italy               IT        IT    ITA   380     ITA       .it
Jamaica             JM        JM    JAM   388     JAM       .jm
Jan Mayen           JN        -     -     -       SJM       -
  ISO includes with Svalbard

Japan               JA        JP    JPN   392     JPN       .jp
Jarvis Island       DQ        -     -     -       UMI       -
  ISO includes with the US Minor Outlying Islands

Jersey              JE        JE    JEY   832     UK        .je
Johnston Atoll      JQ        -     -     -       UMI       -
  ISO includes with the US Minor Outlying Islands

Jordan              JO        JO    JOR   400     JOR       .jo
Juan de Nova Island JU        -     -     -       -         -
  administered as part of French Southern and Antarctic Lands;
  no ISO codes assigned

Kazakhstan          KZ        KZ    KAZ   398     KAZ       .kz
Kenya               KE        KE    KEN   404     KEN       .ke
Kingman Reef        KQ        -     -     -       UMI       -
  ISO includes with the US Minor Outlying Islands

Kiribati            KR        KI    KIR   296     KIR       .ki
Korea, North        KN        KP    PRK   408     PRK       .kp
Korea, South        KS        KR    KOR   410     KOR       .kr
Kosovo              KV        -     -     -       -         -
  ISO codes have not been designated

Kuwait              KU        KW    KWT   414     KWT       .kw
Kyrgyzstan          KG        KG    KGZ   417     KGZ       .kg
Laos                LA        LA    LAO   418     LAO       .la
Latvia              LG        LV    LVA   428     LVA       .lv
Lebanon             LE        LB    LBN   422     LBN       .lb
Lesotho             LT        LS    LSO   426     LSO       .ls
Liberia             LI        LR    LBR   430     LBR       .lr
Libya               LY        LY    LBY   434     LBY       .ly
Liechtenstein       LS        LI    LIE   438     LIE       .li
Lithuania           LH        LT    LTU   440     LTU       .lt
Luxembourg          LU        LU    LUX   442     LUX       .lu
Macau               MC        MO    MAC   446     MAC       .mo
Macedonia           MK        MK    MKD   807     FYR       .mk
Madagascar          MA        MG    MDG   450     MDG       .mg
Malawi              MI        MW    MWI   454     MWI       .mw
Malaysia            MY        MY    MYS   458     MYS       .my
Maldives            MV        MV    MDV   462     MDV       .mv
Mali                ML        ML    MLI   466     MLI       .ml
Malta               MT        MT    MLT   470     MLT       .mt
Marshall Islands    RM        MH    MHL   584     MHL       .mh
Martinique          MB        MQ    MTQ   474     MTQ       .mq
Mauritania          MR        MR    MRT   478     MRT       .mr
Mauritius           MP        MU    MUS   480     MUS       .mu
Mayotte             MF        YT    MYT   175     FRA       .yt
Mexico              MX        MX    MEX   484     MEX       .mx
Micronesia,
  Federated
  States of         FM        FM    FSM   583     FSM       .fm
Midway Islands      MQ        -     -     -       UMI       -
  ISO includes with the US Minor Outlying Islands

Moldova             MD        MD    MDA   498     MDA       .md
Monaco              MN        MC    MCO   492     MCO       .mc
Mongolia            MG        MN    MNG   496     MNG       .mn
Montenegro          MJ        ME    MNE   499     -         .me
Montserrat          MH        MS    MSR   500     MSR       .ms
Morocco             MO        MA    MAR   504     MAR       .ma
Mozambique          MZ        MZ    MOZ   508     MOZ       .mz
Myanmar             -         -     -     -       -         -
  see Burma

Namibia             WA        NA    NAM   516     NAM       .na
Nauru               NR        NR    NRU   520     NRU       .nr
Navassa Island      BQ        -     -     -       US        -
  ISO includes with the US Minor Outlying Islands

Nepal               NP        NP    NPL   524     NPL       .np
Netherlands         NL        NL    NLD   528     NLD       .nl
Netherlands
  Antilles          NT        AN    ANT   530     ANT       .an
New Caledonia       NC        NC    NCL   540     NCL       .nc
New Zealand         NZ        NZ    NZL   554     NZL       .nz
Nicaragua           NU        NI    NIC   558     NIC       .ni
Niger               NG        NE    NER   562     NER       .ne
Nigeria             NI        NG    NGA   566     NGA       .ng
Niue                NE        NU    NIU   570     NIU       .nu
Norfolk Island      NF        NF    NFK   574     NFK       .nf
Northern Mariana
  Islands           CQ        MP    MNP   580     MNP       .mp
Norway              NO        NO    NOR   578     NOR       .no
Oman                MU        OM    OMN   512     OMN       .om
Pakistan            PK        PK    PAK   586     PAK       .pk
Palau               PS        PW    PLW   585     PLW       .pw
Palmyra Atoll       LQ        -     -     -       UMI       -
  ISO includes with the US Minor Outlying Islands

Panama              PM        PA    PAN   591     PAN       .pa
Papua New Guinea    PP        PG    PNG   598     PNG       .pg
Paracel Islands     PF        -     -     -       -         -
Paraguay            PA        PY    PRY   600     PRY       .py
Peru                PE        PE    PER   604     PER       .pe
Philippines         RP        PH    PHL   608     PHL       .ph
Pitcairn Islands    PC        PN    PCN   612     PCN       .pn
Poland              PL        PL    POL   616     POL       .pl
Portugal            PO        PT    PRT   620     PRT       .pt
Puerto Rico         RQ        PR    PRI   630     PRI       .pr
Qatar               QA        QA    QAT   634     QAT       .qa
Reunion             RE        RE    REU   638     REU       .re
Romania             RO        RO    ROU   642     ROU       .ro
Russia              RS        RU    RUS   643     RUS       .ru
Rwanda              RW        RW    RWA   646     RWA       .rw
Saint Barthelemy    TB        BL    BLM   652     -         .bl
  ccTLD .fr and .gp may also be used

Saint Helena        SH        SH    SHN   654     SHN       .sh
Saint Kitts and NevisSC       KN    KNA   659     KNA       .kn
Saint Lucia         ST        LC    LCA   662     LCA       .lc
Saint Martin        RN        MF    MAF   663     -         .mf
  ccTLD .fr and .gp may also be used

Saint Pierre and
  Miquelon          SB        PM    SPM   666     SPM       .pm
Saint Vincent and
  the Grenadines    VC        VC    VCT   670     VCT       .vc
Samoa               WS        WS    WSM   882     WSM       .ws
San Marino          SM        SM    SMR   674     SMR       .sm
Sao Tome and
  Principe          TP        ST    STP   678     STP       .st
Saudi Arabia        SA        SA    SAU   682     SAU       .sa
Senegal             SG        SN    SEN   686     SEN       .sn
Serbia              RI        RS    SRB   688     -         .rs
Seychelles          SE        SC    SYC   690     SYC       .sc
Sierra Leone        SL        SL    SLE   694     SLE       .sl
Singapore           SN        SG    SGP   702     SGP       .sg
Slovakia            LO        SK    SVK   703     SVK       .sk
Slovenia            SI        SI    SVN   705     SVN       .si
Solomon Islands     BP        SB    SLB   090     SLB       .sb
Somalia             SO        SO    SOM   706     SOM       .so
South Africa        SF        ZA    ZAF   710     ZAF       .za
South Georgia and
  the Islands       SX        GS    SGS   239     SGS       .gs
Spain               SP        ES    ESP   724     ESP       .es
Spratly Islands     PG        -     -     -       -         -
Sri Lanka           CE        LK    LKA   144     LKA       .lk
Sudan               SU        SD    SDN   736     SDN       .sd
Suriname            NS        SR    SUR   740     SUR       .sr
Svalbard            SV        SJ    SJM   744     SJM       .sj
  ISO includes Jan Mayen

Swaziland           WZ        SZ    SWZ   748     SWZ       .sz
Sweden              SW        SE    SWE   752     SWE       .se
Switzerland         SZ        CH    CHE   756     CHE       .ch
Syria               SY        SY    SYR   760     SYR       .sy
Taiwan              TW        TW    TWN   158     TWN       .tw
Tajikistan          TI        TJ    TJK   762     TJK       .tj
Tanzania            TZ        TZ    TZA   834     TZA       .tz
Thailand            TH        TH    THA   764     THA       .th
Timor-Leste         TT        TL    TLS   626     TLS       .tl
Togo                TO        TG    TGO   768     TGO       .tg
Tokelau             TL        TK    TKL   772     TKL       .tk
Tonga               TN        TO    TON   776     TON       .to
Trinidad and Tobago TD        TT    TTO   780     TTO       .tt
Tromelin Island     TE        -     -     -       -         -
  administered as part of French Southern and Antarctic Lands;
  no ISO codes assigned

Tunisia             TS        TN    TUN   788     TUN       .tn
Turkey              TU        TR    TUR   792     TUR       .tr
Turkmenistan        TX        TM    TKM   795     TKM       .tm
Turks and
  Caicos Islands    TK        TC    TCA   796     TCA       .tc
Tuvalu              TV        TV    TUV   798     TUV       .tv
Uganda              UG        UG    UGA   800     UGA       .ug
Ukraine             UP        UA    UKR   804     UKR       .ua
United Arab
  Emirates          AE        AE    ARE   784     ARE       .ae
United Kingdom      UK        GB    GBR   826     GBR       .uk
United States       US        US    USA   840     USA       .us
United States Minor
  Outlying Islands  -         UM    UMI   581     -         .um
  ISO includes Baker Island, Howland Island, Jarvis Island,
  Johnston Atoll, Kingman Reef, Midway Islands, Navassa Island,
  Palmyra Atoll, Wake Island

Uruguay             UY        UY    URY   858     URY       .uy
Uzbekistan          UZ        UZ    UZB   860     UZB       .uz
Vanuatu             NH        VU    VUT   548     VUT       .vu
Venezuela           VE        VE    VEN   862     VEN       .ve
Vietnam             VM        VN    VNM   704     VNM       .vn
Virgin Islands      VQ        VI    VIR   850     VIR       .vi
Virgin Islands (UK) -         -     -     -       -         .vg
  see British Virgin Islands

Virgin Islands (US) -         -     -     -       -         .vi
  see Virgin Islands

Wake Island         WQ        -     -     -       UMI       -
  ISO includes with the US Minor Outlying Islands

Wallis and Futuna   WF        WF    WLF   876     WLF       .wf
West Bank           WE        PS    PSE   275     PSE       .ps
  ISO identifies as Occupied Palestinian Territory

Western Sahara      WI        EH    ESH   732     ESH       .eh
Western Samoa       -         -     -     -       -         .ws
  see Samoa

World               -         -     -     -       -         -
  the Factbook uses the W data code from DIAM 65-18 Geopolitical
  Data Elements and Related Features, Data Standard No. 3, December
  1994, published by the Defense Intelligence Agency

Yemen               YM        YE    YEM   887     YEM       .ye
Zaire               -         -     -     -       -         -
  see Democratic Republic of the Congo

Zambia              ZA        ZM    ZMB   894     ZMB       .zm
Zimbabwe            ZI        ZW    ZWE   716     ZWE       .zw


This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008



=====================================================================



ference List of Hydrographic Data Codes


IHO 23-4th:  Limits of Oceans and Seas, Special Publication 23, Draft
4th Edition 1986, published by the International Hydrographic Bureau of
the International Hydrographic Organization; note - this document has
not yet been ratified and only the 3rd Edition (1953) remains in force

IHO 23-3rd:  Limits of Oceans and Seas, Special Publication 23, 3rd
Edition 1953, published by the International Hydrographic Organization

ACIC M 49-1:  Chart of Limits of Seas and Oceans, revised January 1958,
published by the Aeronautical Chart and Information Center (ACIC),
United States Air Force; note - ACIC is now part of the National
Imagery and Mapping Agency (NIMA)

DIAM 65-18:  Geopolitical Data Elements and Related Features, Data
Standard No. 4, Defense Intelligence Agency Manual 65-18, December
1994, published by the Defense Intelligence Agency

The US Government has not yet adopted a standard for hydrographic codes
similar to the Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) 10-4
country codes. The names and limits of the following oceans and seas
are not always directly comparable because of differences in the
customers, needs, and requirements of the individual organizations.
Even the number of principal water bodies varies from organization to
organization. Factbook users, for example, find the Atlantic Ocean and
Pacific Ocean entries useful, but none of the following standards
include those oceans in their entirety. Nor is there any provision for
combining codes or overcodes to aggregate water bodies. The recently
delimited Southern Ocean is not included.


  Principal Oceans and Seas of the World
  With Hydrographic Codes by Institution

                            IHO 23-4th  IHO 23-3rd*  ACIC M 49-1  DIAM 65-18
  Arctic Ocean              9           17           A            5A
  Atlantic Ocean            -           -            -            -
  Baltic Sea                2           1            B26          7B
  Eastern Mediterranean     3.1.2       28 B         -            8E
  Indian Ocean              5           45           F            6A
  Mediterranean Sea         3.1         28           B11          -
  North Atlantic Ocean      1           23           B            1A
  North Pacific Ocean       7           57           D            3A
  Pacific Ocean             -           -            -            -
  South Atlantic Ocean      4           32           C            2A
  South China and Eastern
    Archipelagic Seas       6           49, 48       D18 plus     3U plus
                                                     others       others
  South Pacific Ocean       8           61           E            4A
  Western Mediterranean     3.1.1       28 A         -            8W

*The letters after the numbers are subdivisions, not footnotes.



This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008



=====================================================================



Appendix F - Cross-Reference List of Geographic Names


           Name              Entry in The       Latitude    Longitude
                             World Factbook     (deg min)   (deg min)


Abidjan (capital)            Cote d'Ivoire      5 19 N      4 02 W
Abkhazia (region)            Georgia            43 00 N     41 00 E
Abu Dhabi (capital)          United Arab        24 28 N     54 22 E
                             Emirates
Abu Musa (island)            Iran               25 52 N     55 03 E
Abuja (capital)              Nigeria            9 12 N      7 11 E
Abyssinia (former name for   Ethiopia           8 00 N      38 00 E
Ethiopia)
Acapulco (city)              Mexico             16 51 N     99 55 W
Accra (capital)              Ghana              5 33 N      0 13 W
Adamstown (capital)          Pitcairn Islands   25 04 S     130 05 W
Addis Ababa (capital)        Ethiopia           9 02 N      38 42 E
Adelie Land (claimed by      Antarctica         66 30 S     139 00 E
France; also Terre Adelie)
Aden (city)                  Yemen              12 46 N     45 01 E
Aden, Gulf of                Indian Ocean       12 30 N     48 00 E
Admiralty Island             United States      57 44 N     134 20 W
                             (Alaska)
Admiralty Islands            Papua New Guinea   2 10 S      147 00 E
Adriatic Sea                 Atlantic Ocean     42 30 N     16 00 E
Adygey (region)              Russia             44 30 N     40 10 E
Aegean Islands               Greece             38 00 N     25 00 E
Aegean Sea                   Atlantic Ocean     38 30 N     25 00 E
Afars and Issas, French      Djibouti           11 30 N     43 00 E
Territory of the (or FTAI;
former name for Djibouti)
Afghanestan (local name for  Afghanistan        33 00 N     65 00 E
Afghanistan)
Agalega Islands              Mauritius          10 25 S     56 40 E
Agana (city; former name for Guam               13 28 N     144 45 E
Hagatna)
Ajaccio (city)               France (Corsica)   41 55 N     8 44 E
Ajaria (region)              Georgia            41 45 N     42 10 E
Akmola (city; former name    Kazakhstan         51 10 N     71 30 E
for Astana)
Aksai Chin (region)          China (de facto),  35 00 N     79 00 E
                             India (claimed)
Al Arabiyah as Suudiyah      Saudi Arabia       25 00 N     45 00 E
(local name for Saudi
Arabia)
Al Bahrayn (local name for   Bahrain            26 00 N     50 33 E
Bahrain)
Al Imarat al Arabiyah al     United Arab        24 00 N     54 00 E
Muttahidah (local name for   Emirates
the United Arab Emirates)
Al Iraq (local name for      Iraq               33 00 N     44 00 E
Iraq)
Al Jaza'ir (local name for   Algeria            28 00 N     3 00 E
Algeria)
Al Kuwayt (local name for    Kuwait             29 30 N     45 45 E
Kuwait)
Al Maghrib (local name for   Morocco            32 00 N     5 00 W
Morocco)
Al Urdun (local name for     Jordan             31 00 N     36 00 E
Jordan)
Al Yaman (local name for     Yemen              15 00 N     48 00 E
Yemen)
Aland Islands                Finland            60 15 N     20 00 E
Alaska (state)               United States      65 00 N     153 00 W
Alaska, Gulf of              Pacific Ocean      58 00 N     145 00 W
Alboran Sea                  Atlantic Ocean     36 00 N     2 30 W
Aldabra Islands (Groupe      Seychelles         9 25 S      46 22 E
d'Aldabra)
Alderney (island)            Guernsey           49 43 N     2 12 W
Aleutian Islands             United States      52 00 N     176 00 W
                             (Alaska)
Alexander Archipelago        United States      57 00 N     134 00 W
(island group)               (Alaska)
Alexander Island             Antarctica         71 00 S     70 00 W
Alexandretta (region; former Turkey             36 34 N     36 08 E
name for Iskenderun)
Alexandria (city)            Egypt              31 12 N     29 54 E
Algiers (capital)            Algeria            36 47 N     2 03 E
Alhucemas, Penon de (island  Spain              35 13 N     3 53 W
group)
Alma-Ata (city; former name  Kazakhstan         43 15 N     76 57 E
for Almaty)
Almaty (former capital)      Kazakhstan         43 15 N     76 57 E
Alofi (capital)              Niue               19 01 S     169 55 W
Alphonse Island              Seychelles         7 01 S      52 45 E
Alsace (region)              France             48 30 N     7 20 E
Amami Strait                 Pacific Ocean      28 40 N     129 30 E
Amindivi Islands (former     India              11 30 N     72 30 E
name for Laccadive Islands)
Amirante Isles (island       Seychelles         6 00 S      53 10 E
group; also Les Amirantes)
Amman (capital)              Jordan             31 57 N     35 56 E
Amsterdam (capital)          Netherlands        52 23 N     4 54 E
Amsterdam Island (Ile        French Southern    37 52 S     77 32 E
Amsterdam)                   and Antarctic
                             Lands
Amundsen Sea                 Southern Ocean     72 30 S     112 00 W
Amur River                   China, Russia      52 56 N     141 10 E
Amurskiy Liman (strait)      Pacific Ocean      53 00 N     141 30 E
Anadyrskiy Zaliv (gulf)      Pacific Ocean      64 00 N     177 00 E
Anatolia (region)            Turkey             39 00 N     35 00 E
Andaman Islands              India              12 00 N     92 45 E
Andaman Sea                  Indian Ocean       10 00 N     95 00 E
Andorra la Vella (capital)   Andorra            42 30 N     1 30 E
Andros (island)              Greece             37 45 N     24 42 E
Andros Island                The Bahamas        24 26 N     77 57 W
Anegada Passage              Atlantic Ocean     18 30 N     63 40 W
Angkor Wat (ruins)           Cambodia           13 26 N     103 50 E
Anglo-Egyptian Sudan (former Sudan              15 00 N     30 00 E
name for Sudan)
Anjouan (island)             Comoros            12 15 S     44 25 E
Ankara (capital)             Turkey             39 56 N     32 52 E
Annobon (island)             Equatorial Guinea  1 25 S      5 36 E
Antananarivo (capital)       Madagascar         18 52 S     47 30 E
Antigua (island)             Antigua and        14 34 N     90 44 W
                             Barbuda
Antipodes Islands            New Zealand        49 41 S     178 43 E
Antwerp (city)               Belgium            51 13 N     4 25 E
Aomen (local Chinese short-  Macau              22 10 N     113 33 E
form name for Macau)
Aozou Strip (region)         Chad               22 00 N     18 00 E
Apia (capital)               Samoa              13 50 S     171 44 W
Aqaba, Gulf of               Indian Ocean       29 00 N     34 30 E
Arab, Shatt al (river)       Iran, Iraq         29 57 N     48 34 E
Arabian Sea                  Indian Ocean       15 00 N     65 00 E
Arafura Sea                  Pacific Ocean      9 00 S      133 00 E
Aral Sea                     Kazakhstan,        45 00 N     60 00 E
                             Uzbekistan
Argun River                  China, Russia      53 20 N     121 28 E
Aru Sea                      Pacific Ocean      6 15 S      135 00 E
As-Sudan (local name for     Sudan              15 00 N     30 00 E
Sudan)
Ascension Island             Saint Helena       7 57 S      14 22 W
Ashgabat, Ashkhabad          Turkmenistan       37 57 N     58 23 E
(capital)
Asmara, Asmera (capital)     Eritrea            15 20 N     38 53 E
Assumption Island            Seychelles         9 46 S      46 34 E
Astana (capital; formerly    Kazakhstan         51 10 N     71 30 E
Akmola)
Asuncion (capital)           Paraguay           25 16 S     57 40 W
Asuncion Island              Northern Mariana   19 40 N     145 24 E
                             Islands
Atacama (desert)             Chile              23 00 S     70 10 W
Atacama (region)             Chile              24 30 S     69 15 W
Athens (capital)             Greece             37 59 N     23 44 E
Attu Island                  United States      52 55 N     172 57 E
Auckland (city)              New Zealand        36 52 S     174 46 E
Auckland Islands             New Zealand        51 00 S     166 30 E
Australes, Iles (island      French Polynesia   23 20 S     151 00 W
group; also Iles Tubuai)
Avarua (capital)             Cook Islands       21 12 S     159 46 W
Axel Heiberg Island          Canada             79 30 N     90 00 W
Azad Kashmir (region)        Pakistan           34 30 N     74 00 E
Azarbaycan, Azerbaidzhan     Azerbaijan         40 30 N     47 30 E
(local name for Azerbaijan)
Azores (islands)             Portugal           38 30 N     28 00 W
Azov, Sea of                 Atlantic Ocean     49 00 N     36 00 E
Bab el Mandeb (strait)       Indian Ocean       12 40 N     43 20 E
Babuyan Channel              Pacific Ocean      18 44 N     121 40 E
Babuyan Islands              Philippines        19 10 N     121 40 E
Baffin Bay                   Arctic Ocean       73 00 N     66 00 W
Baffin Island                Canada             68 00 N     70 00 W
Baghdad (capital)            Iraq               33 21 N     44 25 E
Baku (capital; also Baki,    Azerbaijan         40 23 N     49 51 E
Baky)
Balabac Strait               Pacific Ocean      7 35 N      117 00 E
Balearic Islands             Spain              39 30 N     3 00 E
Balearic Sea (Iberian Sea)   Atlantic Ocean     40 30 N     2 00 E
Bali (island)                Indonesia          8 20 S      115 00 E
Bali Sea                     Indian Ocean       7 45 S      115 30 E
Balintang Channel            Pacific Ocean      19 49 N     121 40 E
Balintang Islands            Philippines        19 55 N     122 10 E
Balkan Peninsula             Albania, Bosnia    42 00 N     23 00 E
                             and Herzegovina,
                             Bulgaria, Croatia,
                             Greece, Macedonia,
                             Montenegro,
                             Romania, Serbia,
                             Slovenia, Turkey
                             (European part)
Balleny Islands              Antarctica         67 00 S     163 00 E
Balochistan (region)         Pakistan           28 00 N     63 00 E
Baltic Sea                   Atlantic Ocean     57 00 N     19 00 E
Bamako (capital)             Mali               12 39 N     8 00 W
Banaba (Ocean Island)        Kiribati           0 52 S      169 35 E
Banat (region)               Hungary, Romania,  45 30 N     21 00 E
                             Serbia
Banda Sea                    Pacific Ocean      5 00 S      128 00 E
Bandar Seri Begawan          Brunei             4 53 N      114 56 E
(capital)
Bangka (island)              Indonesia          2 30 S      106 00 E
Bangkok (capital)            Thailand           13 45 N     100 31 E
Bangui (capital)             Central African    4 22 N      18 35 E
                             Republic
Banjul (capital)             The Gambia         13 28 N     16 39 W
Banks Island                 Australia          10 12 S     142 16 E
Banks Island                 Canada             75 15 N     121 30 W
Banks Islands (Iles Banks)   Vanuatu            14 00 S     167 30 E
Barbuda (island)             Antigua and        17 38 N     61 48 W
                             Barbuda
Barcelona (city)             Spain              41 25 N     2 13 E
Barents Sea                  Arctic Ocean       74 00 N     36 00 E
Barranquilla (city)          Colombia           10 59 N     74 48 W
Bashi Channel                Pacific Ocean      22 00 N     121 00 E
Basilan Strait               Pacific Ocean      6 49 N      122 05 E
Basque Provinces             Spain              43 00 N     2 30 W
Bass Strait                  Pacific Ocean      39 20 S     145 30 E
Basse-Terre (capital)        France             16 00 N     61 44 W
                             (Guadeloupe)
Basseterre (capital)         Saint Kitts and    17 18 N     62 43 W
                             Nevis
Bastia (city)                France (Corsica)   42 42 N     9 27 E
Basutoland (former name for  Lesotho            29 30 S     28 30 E
Lesotho)
Batan Islands                Philippines        20 30 N     121 50 E
Bavaria (region; also        Germany            48 30 N     11 30 E
Bayern)
Beagle Channel               Atlantic Ocean     54 53 S     68 10 W
Bear Island (see Bjornoya)   Svalbard           74 26 N     19 05 E
Beaufort Sea                 Arctic Ocean       73 00 N     140 00 W
Bechuanaland (former name    Botswana           22 00 S     24 00 E
for Botswana)
Beijing (capital)            China              39 56 N     116 24 E
Beirut (capital)             Lebanon            33 53 N     35 30 E
Bekaa Valley                 Lebanon            34 00 N     36 05 E
Belau (Palau Islands)        Palau              7 30 N      134 30 E
Belep Islands (Iles Belep)   New Caledonia      19 45 S     163 40 E
Belfast (city)               United Kingdom     54 36 N     5 55 W
Belgian Congo (former name   Democratic         0 00 N      25 00 E
for Democratic Republic of   Republic of the
the Congo)                   Congo
Belgie, Belgique (local name Belgium            50 50 N     4 00 E
for Belgium)
Belgrade (capital)           Serbia             44 50 N     20 30 E
Belize City                  Belize             17 30 N     88 12 W
Belle Isle, Strait of        Atlantic Ocean     51 35 N     56 30 W
Bellingshausen Sea           Southern Ocean     71 00 S     85 00 W
Belmopan (capital)           Belize             17 15 N     88 46 W
Belorussia (former name for  Belarus            53 00 N     28 00 E
Belarus)
Benadir (region; former name Somalia            4 00 N      46 00 E
of Italian Somaliland)
Bengal, Bay of               Indian Ocean       15 00 N     90 00 E
Berau, Gulf of               Pacific Ocean      2 30 S      132 30 E
Bering Island                Russia             55 00 N     166 30 E
Bering Sea                   Pacific Ocean      60 00 N     175 00 W
Bering Strait                Pacific Ocean      65 30 N     169 00 W
Berkner Island               Antarctica         79 30 S     49 30 W
Berlin (capital)             Germany            52 31 N     13 24 E
Berlin, East (former name    Germany            52 30 N     13 33 E
for eastern sector of
Berlin)
Berlin, West (former name    Germany            52 30 N     13 20 E
for western sector of
Berlin)
Bern (capital)               Switzerland        46 57 N     7 26 E
Bessarabia (region)          Moldova, Romania,  47 00 N     28 30 E
                             Ukraine
Bharat (local name for       India              20 00 N     77 00 E
India)
Bhopal (city)                India              23 16 N     77 24 E
Biafra (region)              Nigeria            5 30 N      7 30 E
Big Diomede Island           Russia             65 46 N     169 06 W
Bijagos, Arquipelago dos     Guinea-Bissau      11 25 N     16 20 W
(island group)
Bikini Atoll                 Marshall Islands   11 35 N     165 23 E
Bilbao (city)                Spain              43 15 N     2 58 W
Bioko (island)               Equatorial Guinea  3 30 N      8 42 E
Biscay, Bay of               Atlantic Ocean     44 00 N     4 00 W
Bishkek (capital)            Kyrgyzstan         42 54 N     74 36 E
Bishop Rock                  United Kingdom     49 52 N     6 27 W
Bismarck Archipelago (island Papua New Guinea   5 00 S      150 00 E
group)
Bismarck Sea                 Pacific Ocean      4 00 S      148 00 E
Bissau (capital)             Guinea-Bissau      11 51 N     15 35 W
Bjornoya (Bear Island)       Svalbard           74 26 N     19 05 E
Black Forest (region)        Germany            48 00 N     8 15 E
Black Rock (island)          South Georgia and  53 39 S     41 48 W
                             the South Sandwich
                             Islands
Black Sea                    Atlantic Ocean     43 00 N     35 00 E
Bloemfontein (judicial       South Africa       29 12 S     26 07 E
capital)
Bo Hai (gulf)                Pacific Ocean      38 00 N     120 00 E
Boa Vista (island)           Cape Verde         16 05 N     22 50 W
Bogota (capital)             Colombia           4 36 N      74 05 W
Bohemia (region)             Czech Republic     50 00 N     14 30 E
Bombay (city; see Mumbai)    India              18 58 N     72 50 E
Bonaire (island)             Netherlands        12 10 N     68 15 W
                             Antilles
Bonifacio, Strait of         Atlantic Ocean     41 01 N     14 00 E
Bonin Islands                Japan              27 00 N     142 10 E
Bonn (former capital)        Germany            50 44 N     7 05 E
Bophuthatswana (region;      South Africa       26 30 S     25 30 E
enclave)
Bora-Bora (island)           French Polynesia   16 30 S     151 45 W
Bordeaux (city)              France             44 50 N     0 34 W
Borneo (island)              Brunei, Indonesia, 0 30 N      114 00 E
                             Malaysia
Bornholm (island)            Denmark            55 10 N     15 00 E
Bosna i Hercegovina (local   Bosnia and         44 00 N     18 00 E
name for Bosnia and          Herzegovina
Herzegovina)
Bosnia (political region)    Bosnia and         44 00 N     18 00 E
                             Herzegovina
Bosporus (strait)            Atlantic Ocean     41 00 N     29 00 E
Bothnia, Gulf of             Atlantic Ocean     63 00 N     20 00 E
Bougainville (island)        Papua New Guinea   6 00 S      155 00 E
Bougainville Strait          Pacific Ocean      6 40 S      156 10 E
Bounty Islands               New Zealand        47 43 S     174 00 E
Bourbon Island (former name  Reunion            21 06 S     55 36 E
of Reunion)
Brasilia (capital)           Brazil             15 47 S     47 55 W
Bratislava (capital)         Slovakia           48 09 N     17 07 E
Brazzaville (capital)        Republic of the    4 16 S      15 17 E
                             Congo
Bridgetown (capital)         Barbados           13 06 N     59 37 W
Brisbane (city)              Australia          27 28 S     153 02 E
Bristol Bay                  Pacific Ocean      57 00 N     160 00 W
Bristol Channel              Atlantic Ocean     51 18 N     3 30 W
Britain (see Great Britain)  United Kingdom     54 00 N     2 00 W
British Bechuanaland         South Africa       27 30 S     23 30 E
(region; former name for
northwest South Africa)
British Central African      Malawi             13 30 S     34 00 E
Protectorate (former name of
Nyasaland)
British East Africa (former  Kenya, Tanzania,   1 00 N      38 00 E
name for British possessions Uganda
in eastern Africa)
British Guiana (former name  Guyana             5 00 N      59 00 W
for Guyana)
British Honduras (former     Belize             17 15 N     88 45 W
name for Belize)
British Solomon Islands      Solomon Islands    8 00 S      159 00 E
(former name for Solomon
Islands)
British Somaliland (former   Somalia            10 00 N     49 00 E
name for northern Somalia)
Brussels (capital)           Belgium            50 50 N     4 20 E
Bubiyan (island)             Kuwait             29 47 N     48 10 E
Bucharest (capital)          Romania            44 26 N     26 06 E
Budapest (capital)           Hungary            47 30 N     19 05 E
Buenos Aires (capital)       Argentina          34 36 S     58 27 W
Bujumbura (capital)          Burundi            3 23 S      29 22 E
Bukovina (region)            Romania, Ukraine   48 00 N     26 00 E
Byelarus (local name for     Belarus            53 00 N     28 00 E
Belarus)
Byelorussia (former name for Belarus            53 00 N     28 00 E
Belarus)
Cabinda (province)           Angola             5 33 S      12 12 E
Cabo Verde (local name for   Cape Verde         16 00 N     24 00 W
Cape Verde)
Cabot Strait                 Atlantic Ocean     47 20 N     59 30 W
Caicos Islands               Turks and Caicos   21 56 N     71 58 W
                             Islands
Cairo (capital)              Egypt              30 03 N     31 15 E
Calcutta (city)              India              22 32 N     88 21 E
Calgary (city)               Canada             51 02 N     114 04 W
California, Gulf of          Pacific Ocean      28 00 N     112 00 W
Cameroun (local name for     Cameroon           6 00 N      12 00 E
Cameroon)
Campbell Island              New Zealand        52 33 S     169 09 E
Campeche, Bay of             Atlantic Ocean     20 00 N     94 00 W
Canal Zone (former name for  Panama             9 00 N      79 45 W
US possessions in Panama)
Canarias Sea                 Atlantic Ocean     28 00 N     16 00 W
Canary Islands               Spain              28 00 N     15 30 W
Canberra (capital)           Australia          35 17 S     149 08 E
Cancun (city)                Mexico             21 10 N     86 50 W
Canton (city; now Guangzhou) China              23 06 N     113 16 E
Canton Island (Kanton        Kiribati           2 49 S      171 40 W
Island)
Cape Juby (region; former    Morocco            27 53 N     12 58 W
name for Southern Morocco)
Cape Province (region;       South Africa       31 30 S     22 30 E
former name for Northern,
Western, and Eastern Cape
Provinces of South Africa)
Cape Town (legislative       South Africa       33 57 S     18 25 E
capital)
Cape of Good Hope (cape;     South Africa       34 15 S     18 20 E
also alternate name for Cape
Province of South Africa)
Caracas (capital)            Venezuela          10 30 N     66 56 W
Cargados Carajos Shoals      Mauritius          16 25 S     59 38 E
Caribbean Sea                Atlantic Ocean     15 00 N     73 00 W
Caroline Islands             Federated States   7 30 N      148 00 E
                             of Micronesia,
                             Palau
Carpatho-Ukraine (region;    Ukraine            48 22 N     23 32 E
former name for Zakarpats'ka
oblast')
Carpentaria, Gulf of         Pacific Ocean      14 00 S     139 00 E
Casablanca (city)            Morocco            33 35 N     7 34 W
Castries (capital)           Saint Lucia        14 01 N     61 00 W
Catalonia (region)           Spain              42 00 N     2 00 E
Cato Island                  Australia          23 15 S     155 32 E
Caucasus (region)            Russia             42 00 N     45 00 E
Cayenne (capital)            French Guiana      4 56 N      52 20 W
Celebes (island)             Indonesia          2 00 S      121 00 E
Celebes Sea                  Pacific Ocean      3 00 N      122 00 E
Celtic Sea                   Atlantic Ocean     51 00 N     6 30 W
Central African Empire       Central African    7 00 N      21 00 E
(former name for Central     Republic
African Republic)
Ceram (Seram) Sea            Pacific Ocean      2 30 S      129 30 E
Ceska Republika (local name  Czech Republic     49 45 N     15 30 E
for Czech Republic)
Ceskoslovensko (former local Czech Republic,    49 00 N     17 30 E
name for Czechoslovakia)     Slovakia
Cetinje (capital city)       Montenegro         42 24 N     18 55 E
Ceuta (city)                 Spain              35 53 N     5 19 W
Ceylon (former name for Sri  Sri Lanka          7 00 N      81 00 E
Lanka)
Chafarinas, Islas (island)   Spain              35 12 N     2 26 W
Chagos Archipelago (Oil      British Indian     6 00 S      71 30 E
Islands)                     Ocean Territory
Challenger Deep (Mariana     Pacific Ocean      11 22 N     142 36 E
Trench)
Channel Islands              Guernsey, Jersey   49 20 N     2 20 W
Charlotte Amalie (capital)   Virgin Islands     18 21 N     64 56 W
Chatham Islands              New Zealand        44 00 S     176 30 W
Chechnya (region; also       Russia             43 15 N     45 40 E
Chechnia)
Cheju Strait                 Pacific Ocean      34 00 N     126 30 E
Cheju-do (island)            Korea, South       33 20 N     126 30 E
Chengdu (city)               China              30 43 N     104 04 E
Chennai (city; also Madras)  India              13 04 N     80 16 E
Chesterfield Islands (Iles   New Caledonia      19 52 S     158 15 E
Chesterfield)
Chihli, Gulf of (see Bo Hai) Pacific Ocean      38 30 N     120 00 E
Chiloe (island)              Chile              42 50 S     74 00 W
China, People's Republic of  China              35 00 N     105 00 E
China, Republic of           Taiwan             23 30 N     121 00 E
Chisinau (capital; also      Moldova            47 00 N     28 50 E
Kishinev)
Choiseul (island)            Solomon Islands    7 05 S      121 00 E
Choson (local name for North North Korea        40 00 N     127 00 E
Korea)
Christmas Island (Indian     Australia          10 25 S     105 39 E
Ocean)
Christmas Island (Pacific    Kiribati           1 52 N      157 20 W
Ocean; also Kiritimati)
Chukchi Sea                  Arctic Ocean       69 00 N     171 00 W
Chuuk Islands (Truk Islands) Federated States   7 25 N      151 47 W
                             of Micronesia
Cilicia (region)             Turkey             36 50 N     34 30 E
Ciskei (enclave)             South Africa       33 00 S     27 00 E
Citta del Vaticano (local    Holy See           41 54 N     12 27 E
name for Vatican City)
Cochin China (region)        Vietnam            11 00 N     107 00 E
Coco, Isla del (island)      Costa Rica         5 32 N      87 04 W
Cocos Islands                Cocos (Keeling)    12 30 S     96 50 E
                             Islands
Colombo (capital)            Sri Lanka          6 56 N      79 51 E
Colon, Archipielago de       Ecuador            0 00 N      90 30 W
(Galapagos Islands)
Commander Islands            Russia             55 00 N     167 00 E
(Komandorskiye Ostrova)
Comores (local name for      Comoros            12 10 S     44 15 E
Comoros)
Con Son (islands)            Vietnam            8 43 N      106 36 E
Conakry (capital)            Guinea             9 31 N      13 43 W
Confederatio Helvetica       Switzerland        47 00 N     8 00 E
(local name for Switzerland)
Congo (Brazzaville) (former  Republic of the    1 00 S      15 00 E
name for Republic of the     Congo
Congo)
Congo (Leopoldville) (former Democratic         0 00 N      25 00 E
name for the Democratic      Republic of the
Republic of the Congo)       Congo
Constantinople (city; former Turkey             41 01 N     28 58 E
name for Istanbul)
Cook Strait                  Pacific Ocean      41 15 S     174 30 E
Copenhagen (capital)         Denmark            55 40 N     12 35 E
Coral Sea                    Pacific Ocean      15 00 S     150 00 E
Corfu (island)               Greece             39 40 N     19 45 E
Corinth (region)             Greece             37 56 N     22 56 E
Corisco (island)             Equatorial Guinea  0 55 N      9 19 E
Corn Islands (Islas del      Nicaragua          12 15 N     83 00 W
Maiz)
Corocoro Island              Guyana, Venezuela  3 38 N      66 50 W
Corsica (island; also Corse) France             42 00 N     9 00 E
Cosmoledo Group (island      Seychelles         9 43 S      47 35 E
group; also Atoll de
Cosmoledo)
Cotonou (former capital)     Benin              6 21 N      2 26 E
Cotopaxi (volcano)           Ecuador            0 39 S      78 26 W
Courantyne River             Guyana, Suriname   5 57 N      57 06 W
Cozumel (island)             Mexico             20 30 N     86 55 W
Crete (island)               Greece             35 15 N     24 45 E
Crimea (region)              Ukraine            45 00 N     34 00 E
Crimean Peninsula            Ukraine            45 00 N     34 00 E
Crooked Island Passage       Atlantic Ocean     22 55 N     74 35 W
Crozet Islands (Iles Crozet) French Southern    46 30 S     51 00 E
                             and Antarctic
                             Lands
Cyclades (island group)      Greece             37 00 N     25 10 E
Cyrenaica (region)           Libya              31 00 N     22 00 E
Czechoslovakia (former name  Czech Republic,    49 00 N     18 00 E
for the entity that          Slovakia
subsequently split into the
Czech Republic and Slovakia)
D'Entrecasteaux Islands      Papua New Guinea   9 30 S      150 40 E
Dagestan (region)            Russia             43 00 N     47 00 E
Dahomey (former name for     Benin              9 30 N      2 15 E
Benin)
Daito Islands                Japan              43 00 N     17 00 E
Dakar (capital)              Senegal            14 40 N     17 26 W
Dalmatia (region)            Croatia            43 00 N     17 00 E
Daman (city; also Damao)     India              20 10 N     73 00 E
Damascus (capital)           Syria              33 30 N     36 18 E
Danger Islands (see Pukapuka Cook Islands       10 53 S     165 49 W
Atoll)
Danish Straits               Atlantic Ocean     58 00 N     11 00 E
Danish West Indies (former   Virgin Islands     18 20 N     64 50 W
name for the Virgin Islands)
Danmark (local name)         Denmark            56 00 N     10 00 E
Danzig (city; former name    Poland             54 23 N     18 40 E
for Gdansk)
Dao Bach Long Vi (island)    Vietnam            20 08 N     107 44 E
Dar es Salaam (capital)      Tanzania           6 48 S      39 17 E
Dardanelles (strait)         Atlantic Ocean     40 15 N     26 25 E
Davis Strait                 Atlantic Ocean     67 00 N     57 00 W
Dead Sea                     Israel, Jordan,    32 30 N     35 30 E
                             West Bank
Deception Island             Antarctica         62 56 S     60 34 W
Denmark Strait               Atlantic Ocean     67 00 N     24 00 W
Desolation Islands (Isles    French Southern    49 30 S     69 30 E
Kerguelen)                   and Antarctic
                             Lands
Deutschland (local name for  Germany            51 00 N     9 00 E
Germany)
Devils Island (Ile du        French Guiana      5 17 N      52 35 W
Diable)
Devon Island                 Canada             76 00 N     87 00 W
Dhaka (capital)              Bangladesh         23 43 N     90 25 E
Dhivehi Raajje (local name   Maldives           3 15 N      73 00 E
for Maldives)
Dhofar (region)              Oman               17 00 N     54 10 E
Diego Garcia (island)        British Indian     7 20 S      72 25 E
                             Ocean Territory
Diego Ramirez (islands)      Chile              56 30 S     68 43 W
Dili (capital)               Timor-Leste        8 35 S      125 36 E
Dilmun (former name for      Bahrain            7 00 N      81 00 E
Bahrain)
Diomede Islands              Russia (Big        65 47 N     169 00 W
                             Diomede), United
                             States (Little
                             Diomede)
Diu (region)                 India              20 42 N     70 59 E
Djibouti (capital)           Djibouti           11 30 N     43 15 E
Dnieper (river)              Belarus, Russia,   46 30 N     32 18 E
                             Ukraine (Dnyapro,
                             Dnepr, Dnipro)
Dniester (river)             Moldova, Ukraine   46 18 N     30 17 E
                             (Nistru, Dnister)
Dobruja (region)             Bulgaria, Romania  43 30 N     28 00 E
Dodecanese (island group)    Greece             36 00 N     27 05 E
Dodoma (city)                Tanzania           6 11 S      35 45 E
Doha (capital)               Qatar              25 17 N     51 32 E
Donets Basin                 Russia, Ukraine    48 15 N     38 30 E
Douala (city)                Cameroon           4 03 N      9 42 E
Douglas (capital)            Man, Isle of       54 09 N     4 28 W
Dover, Strait of             Atlantic Ocean     51 00 N     1 30 E
Drake Passage                Atlantic Ocean,    60 00 S     60 00 W
                             Southern Ocean
Druk Yul (local name for     Bhutan             27 30 N     90 30 E
Bhutan)
Dubai, Dubayy (city)         United Arab        25 18 N     55 18 E
                             Emirates
Dublin (capital)             Ireland            53 20 N     6 15 W
Duesseldorf (city)           Germany            51 13 N     6 47 E
Durban (city)                South Africa       29 51 S     31 02 E
Dushanbe (capital)           Tajikistan         38 35 N     68 48 E
Dutch Antilles (former name  Netherlands        12 10 N     68 30 W
for the Netherlands          Antilles
Antilles)
Dutch East Indies (former    Indonesia          5 00 S      120 00 E
name for Indonesia)
Dutch Guiana (former name    Suriname           4 00 N      56 00 W
for Suriname)
Dutch West Indies (former    Netherlands        12 10 N     68 30 W
name for the Netherlands     Antilles
Antilles)
Dzungarian Gate (valley)     China, Kazakhstan  45 25 N     82 25 E
East China Sea               Pacific Ocean      30 00 N     126 00 E
East Frisian Islands         Germany            53 44 N     7 25 E
East Germany (German         Germany            52 00 N     13 00 E
Democratic Republic; former
name for eastern portion of
Germany)
East Korea Strait (Eastern   Pacific Ocean      34 00 N     129 00 E
Channel or Tsushima Strait)
East Pakistan (former name   Bangladesh         24 00 N     90 00 E
for Bangladesh)
East Siberian Sea            Arctic Ocean       74 00 N     166 00 E
Easter Island (Isla de       Chile              27 07 S     109 22 W
Pascua)
Eastern Channel (East Korea  Pacific Ocean      34 00 N     129 00 E
Strait or Tsushima Strait)
Eastern Samoa (former name   American Samoa     14 20 S     170 00 W
for American Samoa)
Edinburgh (city)             United Kingdom     55 57 N     3 11 W
Eesti (local name for        Estonia            59 00 N     26 00 E
Estonia)
Eire (local name for         Ireland            53 00 N     8 00 W
Ireland)
Elba (island)                Italy              42 46 N     10 17 E
Elemi Triangle (region)      Ethiopia           5 00 N      35 30 E
                             (claimed), Kenya
                             (de facto), Sudan
                             (claimed)
Ellada, Ellas (local name    Greece             39 00 N     22 00 E
for Greece)
Ellef Ringnes Island         Canada             78 00 N     103 00 W
Ellesmere Island             Canada             81 00 N     80 00 W
Ellice Islands               Tuvalu             8 00 S      178 00 E
Ellsworth Land (region)      Antarctica         75 00 S     92 00 W
Elobey, Islas de (island     Equatorial Guinea  0 59 N      9 33 E
group)
Enderbury Island             Kiribati           3 08 S      171 05 W
Enewetak Atoll (Eniwetok     Marshall Islands   11 30 N     162 15 E
Atoll)
England (region)             United Kingdom     52 30 N     1 30 W
English Channel              Atlantic Ocean     50 20 N     1 00 W
Eniwetok Atoll (see Enewetak Marshall Islands   11 30 N     162 15 E
Atoll)
Eolie, Isole (island group)  Italy              38 30 N     15 00 E
Epirus, Northern (region)    Albania, Greece    40 00 N     20 30 E
Episkopi Cantonment          Akrotiri, Dhekelia 34 40 N     32 51 E
(capital)
Ertra (local name for        Eritrea            15 00 N     39 00 E
Eritrea)
Espana                       Spain              40 00 N     4 00 W
Essequibo (region; claimed   Guyana             6 59 N      58 23 W
by Venezuela)
Etorofu (island; also        Russia (de facto)  44 55 N     147 40 E
Iturup)
Farquhar Group (island       Seychelles         10 10 S     51 10 E
group; also Atoll de
Farquhar)
Fergana Valley               Kyrgyzstan,        41 00 N     72 00 E
                             Tajikistan,
                             Uzbekistan
Fernando Po (island; see     Equatorial Guinea  3 30 N      8 42 E
Bioko)
Fernando de Noronha (island  Brazil             3 51 S      32 25 W
group)
Filipinas (local name for    Philippines        13 00 N     122 00 E
the Philippines; also
Pilipinas)
Finland, Gulf of             Atlantic Ocean     60 00 N     27 00 E
Fiume (city; former name for Croatia            45 19 N     14 25 E
Rijeka)
Florence (city)              Italy              43 46 N     11 16 E
Flores (island)              Indonesia          8 45 S      121 00 E
Flores Sea                   Pacific Ocean      7 40 S      119 45 E
Florida, Straits of          Atlantic Ocean     25 00 N     79 45 W
Fongafale (largest island of Tuvalu             8 30 S      179 12 E
Funafuti)
Former Soviet Union (FSU)    Armenia,
                             Azerbaijan,
                             Belarus, Estonia,
                             Georgia,
                             Kazakhstan,
                             Kyrgyzstan,
                             Latvia, Lithuania,
                             Moldova, Russia,
                             Tajikistan,
                             Turkmenistan,
                             Ukraine,
                             Uzbekistan
Formosa (island)             Taiwan             23 30 N     121 00 E
Formosa Strait (see Taiwan   Pacific Ocean      24 00 N     119 00 E
Strait)
Foroyar (local name for      Faroe Islands      62 00 N     7 00 W
Faroe Islands)
Fort-de-France (capital)     Martinique         14 36 N     61 05 W
Frankfurt am Main (city)     Germany            50 07 N     8 41 E
Franz Josef Land (island     Russia             81 00 N     55 00 E
group)
Freetown (capital)           Sierra Leone       8 30 N      13 15 W
French Cameroon (former name Cameroon           6 00 N      12 00 E
for Cameroon)
French Guinea (former name   Guinea             11 00 N     10 00 W
for Guinea)
French Indochina (former     Cambodia, Laos,    15 00 N     107 00 E
name for French possessions  Vietnam
in southeast Asia)
French Morocco (former name  Morocco            32 00 N     5 00 W
for Morocco)
French Somaliland (former    Djibouti           11 30 N     43 00 E
name for Djibouti)
French Sudan (former name    Mali               17 00 N     4 00 W
for Mali)
French Territory of the      Djibouti           11 30 N     43 00 E
Afars and Issas (or FTAI;
former name for Djibouti)
French Togoland (former name Togo               8 00 N      1 10 E
for Togo)
French West Indies (former   Guadeloupe,        16 30 N     62 00 W
name for French possessions  Martinique
in the West Indies)
Friendly Islands             Tonga              20 00 S     175 00 W
Frisian Islands              Denmark, Germany,  53 35 N     6 40 E
                             Netherlands
Frunze (city; former name    Kyrgyzstan         42 54 N     74 36 E
for Bishkek)
Funafuti (capital, atoll)    Tuvalu             8 30 S      179 12 E
Fundy, Bay of                Atlantic Ocean     45 00 N     66 00 W
Futuna Islands (Hoorn        Wallis and Futuna  14 19 S     178 05 W
Islands/Iles de Horne)
Fyn (island)                 Denmark            55 20 N     10 25 E
Gaborone (capital)           Botswana           24 45 S     25 55 E
Galapagos Islands            Ecuador            0 00 N      90 30 W
(Archipielago de Colon)
Galicia (region)             Poland, Ukraine    49 30 N     23 00 E
Galicia (region)             Spain              42 45 N     8 10 E
Galilee (region)             Israel             32 54 N     35 20 E
Galleons Passage             Atlantic Ocean     11 00 N     60 55 W
Gambier Islands (Iles        French Polynesia   23 09 S     134 58 W
Gambier)
Gaspar Strait                Pacific Ocean      3 00 S      107 00 E
Gdansk (city; formerly       Poland             54 23 N     18 40 E
Danzig)
Geneva (city)                Switzerland        46 12 N     6 10 E
Genoa (city)                 Italy              44 25 N     8 57 E
George Town (capital)        Cayman Islands     19 20 N     81 23 W
George Town (city)           Malaysia           5 26 N      100 16 E
George Town (city)           The Bahamas        23 30 N     75 46 W
Georgetown (capital)         Guyana             6 48 N      58 10 W
Georgetown (city)            The Gambia         13 30 N     14 47 W
German Democratic Republic   Germany            52 00 N     13 00 E
(East Germany; former name
for eastern portion of
Germany)
German Southwest Africa      Namibia            22 00 S     17 00 E
(former name for Namibia)
Germany, Federal Republic of Germany            51 00 N     9 00 E
Gibraltar (city, peninsula)  Gibraltar          36 11 N     5 22 W
Gibraltar, Strait of         Atlantic Ocean     35 57 N     5 36 W
Gidi Pass                    Egypt              30 13 N     33 09 E
Gilbert Islands              Kiribati           1 25 N      173 00 E
Goa (state)                  India              15 20 N     74 00 E
Gobi (desert)                China, Mongolia    42 30 N     107 00 E
Godthab (capital; also Nuuk) Greenland          64 11 N     51 44 W
Golan Heights (region)       Syria              33 00 N     35 45 E
Gold Coast (former name for  Ghana              8 00 N      2 00 W
Ghana)
Golfo San Jorge (gulf)       Atlantic Ocean     46 00 S     66 00 W
Golfo San Matias (gulf)      Atlantic Ocean     41 30 S     64 00 W
Good Hope, Cape of           South Africa       34 24 S     18 30 E
Goteborg (city)              Sweden             57 43 N     11 58 E
Gotland (island)             Sweden             57 30 N     18 33 E
Gough Island                 Saint Helena       40 20 S     9 55 W
Graham Land (region)         Antarctica         65 00 S     64 00 W
Gran Chaco (region)          Argentina,         24 00 S     60 00 W
                             Paraguay
Grand Bahama (island)        The Bahamas        26 40 N     78 35 W
Grand Banks (fishing ground) Atlantic Ocean     47 06 N     55 48 W
Grand Cayman (island)        Cayman Islands     19 20 N     81 20 W
Grand Turk (capital; also    Turks and Caicos   21 28 N     71 08 W
Cockburn Town)               Islands
Great Australian Bight       Indian Ocean       35 00 S     130 00 E
Great Belt (strait; also     Atlantic Ocean     55 30 N     11 00 E
Store Baelt)
Great Bitter Lake            Egypt              30 20 N     32 23 E
Great Britain (island)       United Kingdom     54 00 N     2 00 W
Great Channel                Indian Ocean       6 25 N      94 20 E
Great Inagua (island)        The Bahamas        21 00 N     73 20 W
Great Rift Valley            Ethiopia, Kenya    0 30 N      36 00 E
Greater Sunda Islands        Brunei, Indonesia, 2 00 S      110 00 E
                             Malaysia
Green Islands                Papua New Guinea   4 30 S      154 10 E
Greenland Sea                Arctic Ocean       79 00 N     5 00 W
Grenadines, Northern (island Saint Vincent and  13 15 N     61 12 W
group)                       the Grenadines
Grenadines, Southern (island Grenada            12 07 N     61 40 W
group)
Grytviken (town; on South    South Georgia and  54 15 S     36 45 W
Georgia)                     the South Sandwich
                             Islands
Guadalahara (city)           Mexico             20 40 N     103 24 W
Guadalcanal (island)         Solomon Islands    9 32 S      160 12 E
Guadalupe, Isla de (island)  Mexico             29 11 N     118 17 W
Guangzhou (city; also        China              23 09 N     113 21 E
Canton)
Guantanamo Bay (US Naval     Cuba               20 00 N     75 08 W
Base)
Guatemala (capital)          Guatemala          14 38 N     90 31 W
Guine-Bissau (local name for Guinea-Bissau      12 00 N     15 00 W
Guinea-Bissau)
Guinea Ecuatorial (local     Equatorial Guinea  2 00 N      10 00 E
name for Equatorial Guinea)
Guinea, Gulf of              Atlantic Ocean     3 00 N      2 30 E
Guinee (local name for       Guinea             11 00 N     10 00 W
Guinea)
Gustavia (capital)           Saint Barthelemy   17 53 N     62 51 W
Guyane Francaise (local name French Guiana      4 00 N      53 00 W
for French Guiana)
Ha'apai Group (island group) Tonga              19 42 S     174 29 W
Habomai Islands              Russia (de facto)  43 30 N     146 10 E
Hadhramaut (region)          Yemen              15 00 N     50 00 E
Hagatna (capital; formerly   Guam               13 28 N     144 45 E
Agana)
Hague, The (seat of          Netherlands        52 05 N     4 18 E
government)
Haifa (city)                 Israel             32 50 N     35 00 E
Hainan Dao (island)          China              19 00 N     109 30 E
Haiphong (city)              Vietnam            20 52 N     106 41 E
Hala'ib Triangle (region)    Egypt (claimed),   22 30 N     35 00 E
                             Sudan (de facto)
Halifax (city)               Canada             44 39 N     63 36 W
Halmahera (island)           Indonesia          1 00 N      128 00 E
Halmahera Sea                Pacific Ocean      0 30 S      129 00 E
Hamburg (city)               Germany            53 34 N     9 59 E
Hamilton (capital)           Bermuda            32 17 N     64 46 W
Han-guk (local name for      South Korea        37 00 N     127 30 E
South Korea
Hanoi (capital)              Vietnam            21 02 N     105 51 E
Harare (capital)             Zimbabwe           17 50 S     31 03 E
Harvey Islands (former name  Cook Islands       21 14 S     159 46 W
for Cook Islands)
Hatay (province)             Turkey             36 30 N     36 15 E
Havana (capital)             Cuba               23 08 N     82 22 W
Hawaii (island)              United States      19 45 N     155 45 W
Hawaiian Islands             United States      21 00 N     157 45 W
Hawar (island)               Bahrain            25 40 N     50 47 E
Hayastan (local name for     Armenia            40 00 N     45 00 E
Armenia)
Heard Island                 Heard Island and   53 06 S     73 30 E
                             McDonald Islands
Hejaz (region)               Saudi Arabia       24 30 N     38 30 E
Helsinki (capital)           Finland            60 10 N     24 58 E
Herzegovina (political       Bosnia and         44 00 N     18 00 E
region)                      Herzegovina
Hiiumaa (island)             Estonia            58 50 N     22 30 E
Hispaniola (island)          Dominican          18 45 N     71 00 W
                             Republic, Haiti
Ho Chi Minh City (formerly   Vietnam            10 45 N     106 40 E
Saigon)
Hokkaido (island)            Japan              44 00 N     143 00 E
Holland (region)             Netherlands        52 30 N     5 45 E
Hong Kong (special           Hong Kong          22 15 N     114 10 E
administrative region)
Honiara (capital)            Solomon Islands    9 26 S      159 57 E
Honshu (island)              Japan              36 00 N     138 00 E
Hormuz, Strait of            Indian Ocean       26 34 N     56 15 E
Horn of Africa (region)      Djibouti, Eritrea, 8 00 N      48 00 E
                             Ethiopia, Somalia
Horn, Cape (Cabo de Hornos)  Chile              55 59 S     67 16 W
Horne, Iles de (island       Wallis and Futuna  14 19 S     178 05 W
group)
Hrvatska (local name for     Croatia            45 10 N     15 30 E
Croatia)
Hudson Bay                   Arctic Ocean       60 00 N     86 00 W
Hudson Strait                Arctic Ocean       62 00 N     71 00 W
Hunter Island                New Caledonia,     22 24 S     172 06 E
                             Vanuatu
Iberian Peninsula            Portugal, Spain    40 00 N     5 00 W
Iceland Sea                  Arctic Ocean       68 00 N     20 00 W
Ifni (region; former name of Morocco            29 22 N     10 09 W
part of Spanish West Africa)
Inaccessible Island          Saint Helena       37 17 S     12 40 W
Indochina (region)           Cambodia, Laos,    15 00 N     107 00 E
                             Vietnam
Ingushetia (region)          Russia             43 15 N     45 00 E
Inhambane (region)           Mozambique         22 30 S     34 30 E
Inini (former name for       French Guiana      4 00 N      53 00 W
French Guiana)
Inland Sea                   Japan              34 20 N     133 30 E
Inner Hebrides (islands)     United Kingdom     56 30 N     6 20 W
Inner Mongolia (region; also China              42 00 N     113 00 E
Nei Mongol)
Ionian Islands               Greece             38 30 N     20 30 E
Ionian Sea                   Atlantic Ocean     38 30 N     18 00 E
Irian Jaya (province)        Indonesia          5 00 S      138 00 E
Irish Sea                    Atlantic Ocean     53 30 N     5 20 W
Iron Gate (river gorge)      Romania, Serbia    44 41 N     22 31 E
Iskenderun (region; formerly Turkey             36 34 N     36 08 E
Alexandretta)
Islamabad (capital)          Pakistan           33 42 N     73 10 E
Island (local name for       Iceland            65 00 N     18 00 W
Iceland)
Islas Malvinas (island       Falkland Islands   51 45 S     59 00 W
group)                       (Islas Malvinas)
Istanbul (city)              Turkey             41 01 N     28 58 E
Istrian Peninsula            Croatia, Slovenia  45 00 N     14 00 E
Italia (local name for       Italy              42 50 N     12 50 E
Italy)
Italian East Africa (former  Eritrea, Ethiopia, 8 00 N      38 00 E
name for Italian possessions Somalia
in eastern Africa)
Italian Somaliland (former   Somalia            10 00 N     49 00 E
name for southern Somalia)
Ittihad al-Imarat al-        United Arab        24 00 N     54 00 E
Arabiyah (local name for the Emirates
United Arab Emirates)
Iturup (island; see Etorofu) Russia (de facto)  44 55 N     147 40 E
Ityop'iya (local name for    Ethiopia           8 00 N      38 00 E
Ethiopia)
Ivory Coast (former name for Cote d'Ivoire      8 00 N      5 00 W
Cote d'Ivoire)
Iwo Jima (island)            Japan              24 47 N     141 20 E
Izmir (region)               Turkey             38 25 N     27 10 E
Jakarta (capital)            Indonesia          6 10 S      106 48 E
James Bay                    Arctic Ocean       54 00 N     80 00 W
Jamestown (capital)          Saint Helena       15 56 S     5 44 W
Jammu (city)                 India              32 42 N     74 52 E
Jammu and Kashmir (region)   India, Pakistan    34 00 N     76 00 E
Japan, Sea of                Pacific Ocean      40 00 N     135 00 E
Jars, Plain of               Laos               19 27 N     103 10 E
Java (island)                Indonesia          7 30 S      110 00 E
Java Sea                     Pacific Ocean      5 00 S      110 00 E
Jerusalem (capital,          Israel, West Bank  31 47 N     35 14 E
proclaimed)
Jiddah, Jeddah (city)        Saudi Arabia       21 30 N     39 12 E
Johannesburg (city)          South Africa       26 15 S     28 00 E
Joseph Bonaparte Gulf        Pacific Ocean      14 00 S     128 45 E
Juan Fernandez, Islas de     Chile              33 00 S     80 00 W
(island group)
Juan de Fuca, Strait of      Pacific Ocean      48 18 N     124 00 W
Jubal, Strait of             Indian Ocean       27 40 N     33 55 E
Judaea (region)              Israel, West Bank  31 35 N     35 00 E
Jugoslavia, Jugoslavija      Bosnia and         43 00 N     21 00 E
(local names for Yugoslavia, Herzegovina,
a former Balkan federation)  Croatia,
                             Macedonia,
                             Montenegro,
                             Serbia, Slovenia
Jutland (region)             Denmark            56 00 N     9 15 E
Juventud, Isla de la (Isle   Cuba               21 40 N     82 50 W
of Youth)
Kabardino-Balkaria (region)  Russia             43 30 N     43 30 E
Kabul (capital)              Afghanistan        34 31 N     69 12 E
Kaduna (city)                Nigeria            10 33 N     7 27 E
Kailas Range                 China, India       30 00 N     82 00 E
Kalaallit Nunaat (local name Greenland          72 00 N     40 00 W
for Greenland)
Kalahari (desert)            Botswana, Namibia  24 30 S     21 00 E
Kalimantan (region)          Indonesia          0 00 N      115 00 E
Kaliningrad (region;         Russia             54 30 N     21 00 E
formerly part of East
Prussia)
Kamaran (island)             Yemen              15 21 N     42 34 E
Kamchatka Peninsula          Russia             56 00 N     160 00 E
(Poluostrov Kamchatka)
Kampala (capital)            Uganda             0 19 N      32 25 E
Kampuchea (former name for   Cambodia           13 00 N     105 00 E
Cambodia)
Kane Basin (portion of       Arctic Ocean       79 30 N     68 00 W
channel)
Kanton Island                Kiribati           2 49 S      171 40 W
Kara Sea                     Arctic Ocean       76 00 N     80 00 E
Karachevo-Cherkessia         Russia             43 40 N     41 50 E
(region)
Karachi (city)               Pakistan           24 51 N     67 03 E
Karafuto (island; former     Russia             50 00 N     143 00 E
name for southern Sakhalin
Island)
Karakoram Pass               China, India       35 30 N     77 50 E
Karelia, Kareliya (region)   Finland, Russia    63 15 N     30 48 E
Karelian Isthmus             Russia             60 25 N     30 00 E
Karimata Strait              Pacific Ocean      2 05 S      108 40 E
Kashmir (region)             India, Pakistan    34 00 N     76 00 E
Katanga (region)             Democratic         10 00 S     26 00 E
                             Republic of the
                             Congo
Kathmandu (capital)          Nepal              27 43 N     85 19 E
Kattegat (strait)            Atlantic Ocean     57 00 N     11 00 E
Kauai Channel                Pacific Ocean      21 45 N     158 50 W
Kazakstan (former name for   Kazakhstan         48 00 N     68 00 E
Kazakhstan)
Keeling Islands              Cocos (Keeling)    12 30 S     96 50 E
                             Islands
Kerguelen, Iles (island      French Southern    49 30 S     69 30 E
group)                       and Antarctic
                             Lands
Kermadec Islands             New Zealand        29 50 S     178 15 W
Kerulen River                China, Mongolia    48 48 N     117 00 E
Khabarovsk (city)            Russia             48 27 N     135 06 E
Khanka, Lake                 China, Russia      45 00 N     132 24 E
Khartoum (capital)           Sudan              15 36 N     32 32 E
Khios (island)               Greece             38 22 N     26 04 E
Khmer Republic (former name  Cambodia           13 00 N     105 00 E
for Cambodia)
Khuriya Muriya Islands       Oman               17 30 N     56 00 E
(Kuria Muria Islands)
Khyber Pass                  Afghanistan,       34 05 N     71 10 E
                             Pakistan
Kibris (Turkish local name   Cyprus             35 00 N     33 00 E
for Cyprus)
Kiel Canal (Nord-Ostsee      Atlantic Ocean     53 53 N     9 08 E
Kanal)
Kiev (city; former name for  Ukraine            50 26 N     30 31 E
Kyiv)
Kigali (capital)             Rwanda             1 57 S      30 04 E
Kingston (capital)           Jamaica            18 00 N     76 48 W
Kingston (capital)           Norfolk Island     29 03 S     167 58 E
Kingstown (capital)          Saint Vincent and  13 09 N     61 14 W
                             the Grenadines
Kinshasa (capital)           Democratic         4 18 S      15 18 E
                             Republic of the
                             Congo
Kipros (Greek local name for Cyprus             35 00 N     33 00 E
Cyprus)
Kirghiziya, Kirgizia (former Kyrgyzstan         41 00 N     75 00 E
name for Kyrgyzstan)
Kirguizstan (local name for  Kyrgyzstan         41 00 N     75 00 E
Kyrgyzstan)
Kiritimati (Christmas        Kiribati           1 52 N      157 20 W
Island)
Kishinev (see Chisinau)      Moldova            47 00 N     28 50 E
Kithira Strait               Atlantic Ocean     36 00 N     23 00 E
Kobe (city)                  Japan              34 41 N     135 10 E
Kodiak Island                United States      57 49 N     152 23 W
Kola Peninsula (Kol'skiy     Russia             67 20 N     37 00 E
Poluostrov)
Kolonia (town; former        Federated States   6 58 N      158 13 E
capital; changed to Palikir) of Micronesia
Korea Bay                    Pacific Ocean      39 00 N     124 00 E
Korea Strait                 Pacific Ocean      34 00 N     129 00 E
Korea, Democratic People's   North Korea        40 00 N     127 00 E
Republic of
Korea, Republic of           South Korea        37 00 N     127 30 E
Koror (capital)              Palau              7 20 N      134 29 E
Kosovo (region)              Serbia             42 30 N     21 00 E
Kosrae (island)              Federated States   5 20 N      163 00 E
                             of Micronesia
Kowloon (city)               Hong Kong          22 18 N     114 10 E
Kra, Isthmus of              Burma, Thailand    10 20 N     99 00 E
Krakatoa (volcano)           Indonesia          6 07 S      105 24 E
Krakow (city)                Poland             50 03 N     19 56 E
Kuala Lumpur (capital)       Malaysia           3 10 N      101 42 E
Kunashiri (island; also      Russia (de facto)  44 20 N     146 00 E
Kunashir)
Kunlun Mountains             China              36 00 N     84 00 E
Kuril Islands                Russia (de facto)  46 10 N     152 00 E
Kuwait (capital)             Kuwait             29 20 N     47 59 E
Kuznetsk Basin               Russia             54 00 N     86 00 E
Kwajalein Atoll              Marshall Islands   9 05 N      167 20 E
Kyiv (capital)               Ukraine            50 26 N     30 31 E
Kyushu (island)              Japan              33 00 N     131 00 E
La Paz (administrative       Bolivia            16 30 S     68 09 W
capital)
La Perouse Strait            Pacific Ocean      45 45 N     142 00 E
Labrador (peninsula, region) Canada             54 00 N     62 00 W
Labrador Sea                 Atlantic Ocean     60 00 N     55 00 W
Laccadive Islands            India              10 00 N     73 00 E
Laccadive Sea                Indian Ocean       7 00 N      76 00 E
Lagos (former capital)       Nigeria            6 27 N      3 24 E
Lahore (city)                Pakistan           31 33 N     74 23 E
Lake Erie                    Atlantic Ocean     42 30 N     81 00 W
Lake Huron                   Atlantic Ocean     45 00 N     83 00 W
Lake Michigan                Atlantic Ocean     43 30 N     87 30 W
Lake Ontario                 Atlantic Ocean     43 30 N     78 00 W
Lake Superior                Atlantic Ocean     48 00 N     88 00 W
Lakshadweep (Laccadive       India              10 00 N     73 00 E
Islands)
Lantau Island                Hong Kong          22 15 N     113 55 E
Lao (local name for Laos)    Laos               18 00 N     105 00 E
Laptev Sea                   Arctic Ocean       76 00 N     126 00 E
Las Palmas (city)            Spain (Canary      28 06 N     15 24 W
                             Islands)
Latakia (region)             Syria              36 00 N     35 50 E
Latvija (local name for      Latvia             57 00 N     25 00 E
Latvia)
Lau Group (island group)     Fiji               18 20 S     178 30 E
Lefkosa (see Nicosia)        Cyprus             35 10 N     33 22 E
Leipzig (city)               Germany            51 21 N     12 23 E
Lemnos (island)              Greece             39 54 N     25 21 E
Leningrad (city; former name Russia             59 55 N     30 15 E
for Saint Petersburg)
Lesser Sunda Islands         Indonesia          9 00 S      120 00 E
Lesvos (island)              Greece             39 15 N     26 15 E
Leyte (island)               Philippines        10 50 N     124 50 E
Liancourt Rocks (claimed by  South Korea        37 15 N     131 50 E
Japan)
Liaodong Wan (gulf)          Pacific Ocean      40 30 N     121 20 E
Liban (local name for        Lebanon            33 50 N     36 50 E
Lebanon)
Libreville (capital)         Gabon              0 23 N      9 27 E
Lietuva (local name for      Lithuania          56 00 N     24 00 E
Lithuania)
Ligurian Sea                 Atlantic Ocean     43 30 N     9 00 E
Lilongwe (capital)           Malawi             13 59 S     33 44 E
Lima (capital)               Peru               12 03 S     77 03 W
Lincoln Sea                  Arctic Ocean       83 00 N     56 00 W
Line Islands                 Jarvis Island,     0 05 N      157 00 W
                             Kingman Reef,
                             Kiribati, Palmyra
                             Atoll
Lion, Gulf of                Atlantic Ocean     43 20 N     4 00 E
Lisbon (capital)             Portugal           38 43 N     9 08 W
Little Belt (strait; also    Atlantic Ocean     55 05 N     9 55 E
Lille Baelt)
Ljubljana (capital)          Slovenia           46 03 N     14 31 E
Llanos (region)              Venezuela          8 00 N      68 00 W
Lobamba (city)               Swaziland          26 27 S     31 12 E
Lombok (island)              Indonesia          8 28 S      116 40 E
Lombok Strait                Indian Ocean       8 30 S      115 50 E
Lome (capital)               Togo               6 08 N      1 13 E
London (capital)             United Kingdom     51 30 N     0 10 W
Longyearbyen (capital)       Svalbard           78 13 N     15 33 E
Lord Howe Island             Australia          31 30 S     159 00 E
Lorraine (region)            France             48 42 N     6 11 E
Louisiade Archipelago        Papua New Guinea   11 00 S     153 00 E
Lourenco Marques (city;      Mozambique         25 56 S     32 34 E
former name for Maputo)
Loyalty Islands (Iles        New Caledonia      21 00 S     167 00 E
Loyaute)
Luanda (capital)             Angola             8 48 S      13 14 E
Lubnan (local name for       Lebanon            33 50 N     36 50 E
Lebanon)
Lubumbashi (city)            Democratic         11 40 S     27 28 E
                             Republic of the
                             Congo
Lusaka (capital)             Zambia             15 25 S     28 17 E
Luxembourg (capital)         Luxembourg         49 45 N     6 10 E
Luzon (island)               Philippines        16 00 N     121 00 E
Luzon Strait                 Pacific Ocean      20 30 N     121 00 E
Lyakhov Islands              Russia             73 45 N     138 00 E
Macao                        Macau              22 10 N     113 33 E
Macau (special               China              22 10 N     113 33 E
administrative region)
Macquarie Island             Australia          54 36 S     158 54 E
Madagasikara (local name for Madagascar         20 00 S     47 00 E
Madagascar)
Maddalena, Isola             Italy              41 13 N     09 24 E
Madeira Islands              Portugal           32 40 N     16 45 W
Madras (city; see Chennai)   India              13 04 N     80 16 E
Madrid (capital)             Spain              40 24 N     3 41 W
Magellan, Strait of          Atlantic Ocean     54 00 S     71 00 W
Maghreb (region)             Algeria, Libya,    34 00 N     3 00 E
                             Mauritania,
                             Morocco, Tunisia
Magreb (local name for       Morocco            32 00 N     5 00 W
Morocco)
Magyarorszag (local name for Hungary            47 00 N     20 00 E
Hungary)
Mahe Island                  Seychelles         4 41 S      55 30 E
Maiz, Islas del (Corn        Nicaragua          12 15 N     83 00 W
Islands)
Majorca Island (Isla de      Spain              39 30 N     3 00 E
Mallorca)
Majuro (capital)             Marshall Islands   7 05 N      171 08 E
Makassar Strait              Pacific Ocean      2 00 S      117 30 E
Makedonija (local name for   Macedonia          41 50 N     22 00 E
Macedonia)
Malabo (capital)             Equatorial Guinea  3 45 N      8 47 E
Malacca, Strait of           Indian Ocean       2 30 N      101 20 E
Malagasy Republic            Madagascar         20 00 S     47 00 E
Malay Archipelago            Brunei, Indonesia, 2 30 N      120 00 E
                             Malaysia, Papua
                             New Guinea,
                             Philippines
Malay Peninsula              Malaysia, Thailand 7 10 N      100 35 E
Male (capital)               Maldives           4 10 N      73 31 E
Mallorca, Isla de (island;   Spain              39 30 N     3 00 E
also Majorca)
Malmady (region)             Belgium            50 26 N     6 02 E
Malpelo, Isla de (island)    Colombia           4 00 N      90 30 W
Malta Channel                Atlantic Ocean     56 44 N     26 53 E
Malvinas, Islas (island      Falkland Islands   51 45 S     59 00 W
group)                       (Islas Malvinas)
Mamoutzou (capital)          Mayotte            12 47 S     45 14 E
Managua (capital)            Nicaragua          12 09 N     86 17 W
Manama (capital)             Bahrain            26 13 N     50 35 E
Manchukuo (former state)     China              44 00 N     124 00 E
Manchuria (region)           China              44 00 N     124 00 E
Manila (capital)             Philippines        14 35 N     121 00 E
Manipa Strait                Pacific Ocean      3 20 S      127 23 E
Mannar, Gulf of              Indian Ocean       8 30 N      79 00 E
Manua Islands                American Samoa     14 13 S     169 35 W
Maputo (capital)             Mozambique         25 58 S     32 35 E
Marcus Island (Minami-tori-  Japan              24 16 N     154 00 E
shima)
Margarita, Isla (island)     Venezuela          10 00 N     64 00 W
Mariana Islands              Guam, Northern     16 00 N     145 30 E
                             Mariana Islands
Marie Byrd Land (region)     Antarctica         77 00 S     130 00 W
Marigot (capital)            Saint Martin       18 04 N     63 05 W
Marion Island                South Africa       46 51 S     37 52 E
Marmara, Sea of              Atlantic Ocean     40 40 N     28 15 E
Marquesas Islands (Iles      French Polynesia   9 00 S      139 30 W
Marquises)
Marseille (city)             France             43 18 N     5 23 E
Martin Vaz, Ilhas (island    Brazil             20 30 S     28 51 W
group)
Mas a Tierra (Robinson       Chile              33 38 S     78 52 W
Crusoe Island)
Mascarene Islands            Mauritius, Reunion 21 00 S     57 00 E
Maseru (capital)             Lesotho            29 28 S     27 30 E
Mata-Utu (capital)           Wallis and Futuna  13 57 S     171 56 W
Matsu (island)               Taiwan             26 13 N     119 56 E
Matthew Island               New Caledonia,     22 20 S     171 20 E
                             Vanuatu
Mauritanie (local name for   Mauritania         20 00 N     12 00 W
Mauritania)
Mazatlan (city)              Mexico             23 13 N     106 25 W
Mbabane (capital)            Swaziland          26 18 S     31 06 E
McDonald Islands             Heard Island and   53 06 S     73 30 E
                             McDonald Islands
Mecca (city)                 Saudi Arabia       21 27 N     39 49 E
Mediterranean Sea            Atlantic Ocean     36 00 N     15 00 E
Melbourne (city)             Australia          37 49 S     144 58 E
Melilla (exclave)            Spain              35 19 N     2 58 W
Memel (region)               Lithuania          55 43 N     21 30 E
Mesopotamia (region)         Iraq               33 00 N     44 00 E
Messina, Strait of           Atlantic Ocean     38 15 N     15 35 E
Mexico City (capital)        Mexico             19 24 N     99 09 W
Mexico, Gulf of              Atlantic Ocean     25 00 N     90 00 W
Middle Congo (former name    Republic of the    1 00 S      15 00 E
for Republic of the Congo)   Congo
Milan (city)                 Italy              45 28 N     9 11 E
Milwaukee Deep (Puerto Rico  Atlantic Ocean     19 55 N     65 27 W
Trench)
Minami-tori-shima (Marcus    Japan              24 16 N     154 00 E
Island)
Mindanao (island)            Philippines        8 00 N      125 00 E
Mindanao Sea                 Pacific Ocean      9 15 N      124 30 E
Mindoro (island)             Philippines        12 50 N     121 05 E
Mindoro Strait               Pacific Ocean      12 20 N     120 40 E
Mingrelia (region)           Georgia            42 30 N     41 52 E
Minicoy Island               India              8 17 N      73 02 E
Minorca Island (Isla de      Spain              40 00 N     4 00 E
Menorca)
Minsk (capital)              Belarus            53 54 N     27 34 E
Misr (local name for Egypt)  Egypt              27 00 N     30 00 E
Mitla Pass                   Egypt              30 02 N     32 54 E
Mocambique (local name for   Mozambique         18 15 S     35 00 E
Mozambique)
Mogadishu (capital)          Somalia            2 04 N      45 22 E
Moldavia (region)            Moldova, Romania   47 00 N     29 00 E
Molucca Sea                  Pacific Ocean      2 00 N      127 00 E
Moluccas (Spice Islands)     Indonesia          2 00 S      128 00 E
Mombasa (city)               Kenya              4 03 S      39 40 E
Mona Passage                 Atlantic Ocean     18 30 N     67 45 W
Monaco (capital)             Monaco             43 44 N     7 25 E
Mongol Uls (local name for   Mongolia           46 00 N     105 00 E
Mongolia)
Monrovia (capital)           Liberia            6 18 N      10 47 W
Monterrey (city)             Mexico             25 40 N     100 19 W
Montevideo (capital)         Uruguay            34 53 S     56 11 W
Montreal (city)              Canada             45 31 N     73 34 W
Moravia (region)             Czech Republic     49 30 N     17 00 E
Moravian Gate (pass)         Czech Republic     49 35 N     17 50 E
Moroni (capital)             Comoros            11 41 S     43 16 E
Mortlock Islands (Nomoi      Federated States   5 30 N      153 40 E
Islands)                     of Micronesia
Moscow (capital)             Russia             55 45 N     37 35 E
Mount Pinatubo (volcano)     Philippines        15 08 N     120 21 E
Mozambique Channel           Indian Ocean       19 00 S     41 00 E
Mumbai (city; also Bombay)   India              18 58 N     72 50 E
Munich, Muenchen (city)      Germany            48 08 N     11 35 E
Muritaniyah (local name for  Mauritania         20 00 N     12 00 W
Mauritania)
Musandam Peninsula           Oman, United Arab  26 18 N     56 24 E
                             Emirates
Muscat (capital)             Oman               23 37 N     58 35 E
Muscat and Oman (former name Oman               21 00 N     57 00 E
for Oman)
Myanma, Myanmar              Burma              22 00 N     98 00 E
N'Djamena (capital)          Chad               12 07 N     15 03 E
Nagorno-Karabakh (region)    Azerbaijan         40 00 N     46 40 E
Nairobi (capital)            Kenya              1 17 S      36 49 E
Namib (desert)               Namibia            24 00 S     15 00 E
Nampo-shoto (island group)   Japan              30 00 N     140 00 E
Nan Madol (ruins)            Federated States   6 85 N      158 35 E
                             of Micronesia
Naples (city)                Italy              40 51 N     14 15 E
Nassau (capital)             The Bahamas        25 05 N     77 21 W
Natal (region)               South Africa       29 00 S     30 25 E
Natuna Besar Islands         Indonesia          3 30 N      102 30 E
Natuna Sea                   Pacific Ocean      3 30 N      108 00 E
Naxcivan (region)            Azerbaijan         39 20 N     45 20 E
Naxos (island)               Greece             37 05 N     25 30 E
Nederland (local name for    Netherlands        52 30 N     5 45 E
the Netherlands)
Nederlandse Antillen (local  Netherlands        12 15 N     68 45 W
name for the Netherlands     Antilles
Antilles)
Negev (region)               Israel             30 30 N     34 55 E
Negros (island)              Philippines        10 00 N     123 00 E
Nejd (region)                Saudi Arabia       24 05 N     45 15 E
Netherlands East Indies      Indonesia          5 00 S      120 00 E
(former name for Indonesia)
Netherlands Guiana (former   Suriname           4 00 N      56 00 W
name for Suriname)
Nevis (island)               Saint Kitts and    17 09 N     62 35 W
                             Nevis
New Britain (island)         Papua New Guinea   6 00 S      150 00 E
New Delhi (capital)          India              28 36 N     77 12 E
New Guinea (island)          Indonesia, Papua   5 00 S      140 00 E
                             New Guinea
New Hebrides (island group)  Vanuatu            16 00 S     167 00 E
New Ireland (island)         Papua New Guinea   3 20 N      152 00 E
New Siberian Islands         Russia             75 00 N     142 00 E
New Territories (mainland    Hong Kong          22 24 N     114 10 E
region)
Newfoundland (island, with   Canada             52 00 N     56 00 W
mainland area, and a
province)
Niamey (capital)             Niger              13 31 N     2 07 E
Nicobar Islands              India              8 00 N      93 30 E
Nicosia (capital; also       Cyprus             35 10 N     33 22 E
Lefkosia)
Nightingale Island           Saint Helena       37 25 S     12 30 W
Nihon, Nippon (local name    Japan              36 00 N     138 00 E
for Japan)
Nomoi Islands (Mortlock      Federated States   5 30 N      153 40 E
Islands)                     of Micronesia
Norge (local name for        Norway             62 00 N     10 00 E
Norway)
Norman Isles (Channel        Guernsey, Jersey   49 20 N     2 20 W
Islands)
North Atlantic Ocean         Atlantic Ocean     30 00 N     45 00 W
North Channel                Atlantic Ocean     55 10 N     5 40 W
North Frisian Islands        Denmark, Germany   54 50 N     8 12 E
North Greenland Sea          Arctic Ocean       78 00 N     5 00 W
North Island                 New Zealand        39 00 S     176 00 E
North Ossetia (region)       Russia             43 00 N     44 10 E
North Pacific Ocean          Pacific Ocean      30 00 N     165 00 W
North Sea                    Atlantic Ocean     56 00 N     4 00 E
North Vietnam (former name   Vietnam            23 00 N     106 00 E
for northern portion of
Vietnam)
North Yemen (Yemen Arab      Yemen              15 00 N     44 00 E
Republic; now part of Yemen)
Northeast Providence Channel Atlantic Ocean     25 40 N     77 09 W
Northern Areas               Pakistan           36 0 N      75 0 E
Northern Cyprus (region)     Cyprus             35 15 N     33 44 E
Northern Epirus (region)     Albania, Greece    40 00 N     20 30 E
Northern Grenadines          Saint Vincent and  12 45 N     61 15 W
(political region)           the Grenadines
Northern Ireland             United Kingdom     54 40 N     6 45 W
Northern Rhodesia (former    Zambia             15 00 S     30 00 E
name for Zambia)
Northwest Passages           Arctic Ocean       74 40 N     100 00 W
Norwegian Sea                Atlantic Ocean     66 00 N     6 00 E
Nouakchott (capital)         Mauritania         18 06 N     15 57 W
Noumea (capital)             New Caledonia      22 16 S     166 27 E
Nouvelle-Caledonie (local    New Caledonia      21 30 S     165 30 E
name for New Caledonia)
Nouvelles Hebrides (former   Vanuatu            16 00 S     167 00 E
name for Vanuatu)
Novaya Zemlya (islands)      Russia             74 00 N     57 00 E
Nubia (region)               Egypt, Sudan       20 30 N     33 00 E
Nuku'alofa (capital)         Tonga              21 08 S     175 12 W
Nunavut (region)             Canada             72 00 N     90 00 W
Nuuk (capital; also Godthab) Greenland          64 11 N     51 44 W
Nyasaland (former name for   Malawi             13 30 S     34 00 E
Malawi)
Nyassa (region)              Mozambique         13 30 S     37 00 E
Oahu (island)                United States      21 30 N     158 00 W
                             (Hawaii)
Ocean Island (Banaba)        Kiribati           0 52 S      169 35 E
Ocean Island (Kure Island)   United States      28 25 N     178 20 W
Oesterreich (local name for  Austria            47 20 N     13 20 E
Austria)
Ogaden (region)              Ethiopia, Somalia  7 00 N      46 00 E
Oil Islands (Chagos          British Indian     6 00 S      71 30 E
Archipelago)                 Ocean Territory
Okhotsk, Sea of              Pacific Ocean      53 00 N     150 00 E
Okinawa (island group)       Japan              26 30 N     128 00 E
Oland (island)               Sweden             56 45 N     16 40 E
Oman, Gulf of                Indian Ocean       24 30 N     58 30 E
Ombai Strait                 Pacific Ocean      8 30 S      125 00 E
Oran (city)                  Algeria            35 43 N     0 43 W
Orange River Colony (region; South Africa       28 20 S     26 40 E
former name of Free State
Province of South Africa)
Oranjestad (capital)         Aruba              12 33 N     70 06 W
Oresund (The Sound) (strait) Atlantic Ocean     55 50 N     12 40 E
Orkney Islands               United Kingdom     59 00 N     3 00 W
Osaka (city)                 Japan              34 42 N     135 30 E
Oslo (capital)               Norway             59 55 N     10 45 E
Osumi Strait (Van Diemen     Pacific Ocean      31 00 N     131 00 E
Strait)
Otranto, Strait of           Atlantic Ocean     40 00 N     19 00 E
Ottawa (capital)             Canada             45 25 N     75 40 W
Ouagadougou (capital)        Burkina Faso       12 22 N     1 31 W
Outer Hebrides (islands)     United Kingdom     57 45 N     7 00 W
Outer Mongolia (region)      Mongolia           46 00 N     105 00 E
P'yongyang (capital)         North Korea        39 01 N     125 45 E
Pacific Islands, Trust       Marshall Islands,  10 00 N     155 00 E
Territory of the (former     Federated States
name of a large area of the  of Micronesia,
western North Pacific Ocean) Northern Mariana
                             Islands, Palau
Pagan (island)               Northern Mariana   18 08 N     145 47 E
                             Islands
Pago Pago (capital)          American Samoa     14 16 S     170 42 W
Palawan (island)             Philippines        9 30 N      118 30 E
Palermo (city)               Italy              38 07 N     13 21 E
Palestine (region)           Israel, West Bank  32 00 N     35 15 E
Palikir (capital)            Federated States   6 55 N      158 08 E
                             of Micronesia
Palk Strait                  Indian Ocean       10 00 N     79 45 E
Pamirs (mountains)           China, Tajikistan  38 00 N     73 00 E
Pampas (region)              Argentina          35 00 S     63 00 W
Panama (capital)             Panama             8 58 N      79 32 W
Panama Canal                 Panama             9 00 N      79 45 W
Panama, Gulf of              Pacific Ocean      8 00 N      79 30 W
Panay (island)               Philippines        11 15 N     122 30 E
Pantelleria, Isola di        Italy              36 47 N     12 00 E
(island)
Papeete (capital)            French Polynesia   17 32 S     149 34 W
Paramaribo (capital)         Suriname           5 50 N      55 10 W
Parece Vela (island)         Japan              20 20 N     136 00 E
Paris (capital)              France             48 52 N     2 20 E
Pascua, Isla de (Easter      Chile              27 07 S     109 22 W
Island)
Pashtunistan (region)        Afghanistan,       32 00 N     69 00 E
                             Pakistan
Passion, Ile de la (island)  Clipperton Island  10 17 N     109 13 W
Patagonia (region)           Argentina          48 00 S     61 00 W
Peking (see Beijing)         China              39 56 N     116 24 E
Pelagian Islands (Isole      Italy              35 40 N     12 40 E
Pelagie)
Peleliu (Beliliou) (island)  Palau              7 01 N      134 15 E
Peloponnese (peninsula)      Greece             37 30 N     22 25 E
Pemba Island                 Tanzania           5 20 S      39 45 E
Penang Island                Malaysia           5 23 N      100 15 E
Pentland Firth (channel)     Atlantic Ocean     58 44 N     3 13 W
Perim (island)               Yemen              12 39 N     43 25 E
Perouse Strait, La           Pacific Ocean      44 45 N     142 00 E
Persia (former name for      Iran               32 00 N     53 00 E
Iran)
Persian Gulf                 Indian Ocean       27 00 N     51 00 E
Perth (city)                 Australia          31 56 S     115 50 E
Pescadores (islands)         Taiwan             23 30 N     119 30 E
Peshawar (city)              Pakistan           34 01 N     71 40 E
Peter I Island               Antarctica         68 48 S     90 35 W
Petrograd (city; former name Russia             59 55 N     30 15 E
for Saint Petersburg)
Philip Island                Norfolk Island     29 08 S     167 57 E
Philippine Sea               Pacific Ocean      20 00 N     134 00 E
Phnom Penh (capital)         Cambodia           11 33 N     104 55 E
Phoenix Islands              Kiribati           3 30 S      172 00 W
Pinatubo, Mount (volcano)    Philippines        15 08 N     120 21 E
Pines, Isle of (island;      Cuba               21 40 N     82 50 W
former name for Isla de la
Juventud)
Pleasant Island              Nauru              0 32 S      166 55 E
Plymouth (capital)           Montserrat         16 44 N     62 14 W
Podgorica (administrative    Montenegro         42 26 N     19 16 E
capital)
Polska (local name)          Poland             52 00 N     20 00 E
Polynesie Francaise (local   French Polynesia   15 00 S     140 00 W
name for French Polynesia)
Pomerania (region)           Germany, Poland    53 40 N     15 35 E
Ponape (Pohnpei) (island)    Federated States   6 55 N      158 15 E
                             of Micronesia
Port Louis (capital)         Mauritius          20 10 S     57 30 E
Port Moresby (capital)       Papua New Guinea   9 30 S      147 10 E
Port-Vila (capital)          Vanuatu            17 44 S     168 19 E
Port-au-Prince (capital)     Haiti              18 32 N     72 20 W
Port-of-Spain (capital)      Trinidad and       10 39 N     61 31 W
                             Tobago
Porto-Novo (capital)         Benin              6 29 N      2 37 E
Portuguese East Africa       Mozambique         18 15 S     35 00 E
(former name for Mozambique)
Portuguese Guinea (former    Guinea-Bissau      12 00 N     15 00 W
name for Guinea-Bissau)
Portuguese Timor (former     Timor-Leste        9 00 S      126 00 E
name for Timor-Leste)
Poznan (city)                Poland             52 25 N     16 55 E
Prague (capital)             Czech Republic     50 05 N     14 28 E
Praia (capital)              Cape Verde         14 55 N     23 31 W
Prathet Thai (local name for Thailand           15 00 N     100 00 E
Thailand)
Pretoria (administrative     South Africa       25 42 S     28 13 E
capital)
Prevlaka peninsula           Croatia            42 24 N     18 31 E
Pribilof Islands             United States      57 00 N     170 00 W
Prince Edward Island         Canada             46 20 N     63 20 W
Prince Edward Islands        South Africa       46 35 S     38 00 E
Prince Patrick Island        Canada             76 30 N     119 00 W
Principe (island)            Sao Tome and       1 38 N      7 25 E
                             Principe
Prussia (region)             Germany, Poland,   53 00 N     14 00 E
                             Russia
Pukapuka Atoll               Cook Islands       10 53 S     165 49 W
Punjab (region)              India, Pakistan    30 50 N     73 30 E
Puntland (region)            Somalia            8 21 N      49 08 E
Qazaqstan (local name for    Kazakhstan         48 00 N     68 00 E
Kazakhstan)
Qita Ghazzah (local name     Gaza Strip         31 25 N     34 20 E
Gaza Strip)
Quebec (city)                Canada             46 48 N     71 15 W
Queen Charlotte Islands      Canada             53 00 N     132 00 W
Queen Elizabeth Islands      Canada             78 00 N     95 00 W
Queen Maud Land (claimed by  Antarctica         73 30 S     12 00 E
Norway)
Quemoy (island)              Taiwan             24 27 N     118 23 E
Quito (capital)              Ecuador            0 13 S      78 30 W
Rabat (capital)              Morocco            34 02 N     6 51 W
Ralik Chain (island group)   Marshall Islands   8 00 N      167 00 E
Rangoon (capital; also       Burma              16 47 N     96 10 E
Yangon)
Rapa Nui (Easter Island)     Chile              27 07 S     109 22 W
Ratak Chain (island group)   Marshall Islands   9 00 N      171 00 E
Red Sea                      Indian Ocean       20 00 N     38 00 E
Redonda (island)             Antigua and        16 55 N     62 19 W
                             Barbuda
Republica Dominicana (local  Dominican Republic 19 00 N     70 40 W
name for Dominican Republic)
Republique Centrafricain     Central African    7 00 N      21 00 E
(local name for Central      Republic
African Republic)
Republique Francaise (local  France             46 00 N     2 00 E
name for France)
Republique Gabonaise (local  Gabon              1 00 S      11 45 E
name for Gabon)
Republique Rwandaise (local  Rwanda             2 00 S      30 00 E
name for Rwanda)
Republique Togolaise (local  Togo               8 00 N      1 10 E
name for Togo)
Revillagigedo Island         United States      55 35 N     131 06 W
                             (Alaska)
Revillagigedo Islands        Mexico             19 00 N     112 45 W
Reykjavik (capital)          Iceland            64 09 N     21 57 W
Rhodes (island)              Greece             36 10 N     28 00 E
Rhodesia, Northern (former   Zambia             15 00 S     30 00 E
name for Zambia)
Rhodesia, Southern (former   Zimbabwe           20 00 S     30 00 E
name for Zimbabwe)
Riga (capital)               Latvia             56 57 N     24 06 E
Riga, Gulf of                Atlantic Ocean     57 30 N     23 30 E
Rio Muni (mainland region)   Equatorial Guinea  1 30 N      10 00 E
Rio de Janiero (city)        Brazil             22 55 S     43 17 W
Rio de Oro (region)          Western Sahara     23 45 N     15 45 W
Rio de la Plata (gulf)       Atlantic Ocean     35 00 S     59 00 W
Riyadh (capital)             Saudi Arabia       24 38 N     46 43 E
Road Town (capital)          British Virgin     18 27 N     64 37 W
                             Islands
Robinson Crusoe Island (Mas  Chile              33 38 S     78 52 W
a Tierra)
Rocas, Atol das (island)     Brazil             3 51 S      33 49 W
Rockall (island)             United Kingdom     57 35 N     13 48 W
Rodrigues (island)           Mauritius          19 42 S     63 25 E
Rome (capital)               Italy              41 54 N     12 29 E
Roncador Cay (island)        Colombia           13 32 N     80 03 W
Roosevelt Island             Antarctica         79 30 S     162 00 W
Roseau (capital)             Dominica           15 18 N     61 24 W
Ross Dependency (claimed by  Antarctica         80 00 S     180 00 E
New Zealand)
Ross Island                  Antarctica         81 30 S     175 00 W
Ross Sea                     Antarctica,        76 00 S     175 00 W
                             Southern Ocean
Rossiya (local name for      Russia             60 00 N     100 00 E
Russia)
Rota (island)                Northern Mariana   14 10 N     145 12 E
                             Islands
Rotuma (island)              Fiji               12 30 S     177 05 E
Ruanda (former name for      Rwanda             2 00 S      30 00 E
Rwanda)
Rub al Khali (desert)        Saudi Arabia       19 30 N     49 00 E
Rumelia (region)             Albania, Bulgaria, 42 00 N     22 30 E
                             Macedonia
Ruthenia (region; former     Ukraine            48 22 N     23 32 E
name for Carpatho-Ukraine)
Ryukyu Islands               Japan              26 30 N     128 00 E
Saar (region)                Germany            49 25 N     7 00 E
Saaremaa (island)            Estonia            58 25 N     22 30 E
Saba (island)                Netherlands        17 38 N     63 10 W
                             Antilles
Sabah (state)                Malaysia           5 20 N      117 10 E
Sable Island                 Canada             43 55 N     59 50 W
Safety Islands (Iles du      French Guiana      5 20 N      52 37 W
Salut)
Sahara Occidental (former    Western Sahara     24 30 N     13 00 W
name for Western Sahara)
Sahel (region)               Burkina Faso,      15 00 N     8 00 W
                             Chad, The Gambia,
                             Guinea- Bissau,
                             Mali, Mauritania,
                             Niger, Senegal
Saigon (city; former name    Vietnam            10 45 N     106 40 E
for Ho Chi Minh City)
Saint Barthelemy (island;    Guadeloupe         17 55 N     62 52 W
also Saint Bart's)
Saint Brandon (Cargados      Mauritius          16 25 S     59 38 E
Carajos Shoals)
Saint Christopher (island)   Saint Kitts and    17 20 N     62 45 W
                             Nevis
Saint Christopher and Nevis  Saint Kitts and    17 20 N     62 45 W
                             Nevis
Saint Eustatius (island)     Netherlands        17 30 N     63 00 W
                             Antilles
Saint George's (capital)     Grenada            12 03 N     61 45 W
Saint George's Channel       Atlantic Ocean     52 00 N     6 00 W
Saint Helena Island          Saint Helena       15 57 S     5 42 W
Saint Helens, Mount          United States      46 15 N     122 12 W
(volcano)
Saint Helier (capital)       Jersey             49 12 N     2 07 W
Saint John (city)            Canada (New        45 16 N     66 04 W
                             Brunswick)
Saint John's (capital)       Antigua and        17 06 N     61 51 W
                             Barbuda
Saint Lawrence Island        United States      49 30 N     67 00 W
Saint Lawrence Seaway        Atlantic Ocean     49 15 N     67 00 W
Saint Lawrence, Gulf of      Atlantic Ocean     48 00 N     62 00 W
Saint Paul Island            Canada             47 12 N     60 09 W
Saint Paul Island            United States      57 11 N     170 16 W
Saint Paul Island (Ile Saint-French Southern    38 43 S     77 29 E
Paul)                        and Antarctic
                             Lands
Saint Peter Port (capital)   Guernsey           49 27 N     2 32 W
Saint Peter and Saint Paul   Brazil             0 23 N      29 23 W
Rocks (Penedos de Sao Pedro
e Sao Paulo)
Saint Petersburg (city;      Russia             59 55 N     30 15 E
former capital)
Saint Thomas (island)        Virgin Islands     18 21 N     64 55 W
Saint Vincent Passage        Atlantic Ocean     13 30 N     61 00 W
Saint-Denis (capital)        Reunion            20 52 S     55 28 E
Saint-Pierre (capital)       Saint Pierre and   46 46 N     56 11 W
                             Miquelon
Saipan (island)              Northern Mariana   15 12 N     145 45 E
                             Islands
Sak'art'velo (local name for Georgia            42 00 N     43 30 E
Georgia)
Sakhalin Island (Ostrov      Russia             51 00 N     143 00 E
Sakhalin)
Sakishima Islands            Japan              24 30 N     124 00 E
Sala y Gomez, Isla (island)  Chile              26 28 S     105 00 W
Salisbury (city; former name Zimbabwe           17 50 S     105 00 W
for Harare)
Salzburg (city)              Austria            47 48 N     13 02 E
Samar (island)               Philippines        12 00 N     125 00 E
Samaria (region)             West Bank          32 15 N     35 10 E
Samoa Islands                American Samoa,    14 00 S     171 00 W
                             Samoa
Samos (island)               Greece             37 48 N     26 44 E
San Ambrosio, Isla (island)  Chile              26 21 S     79 52 W
San Andres y Providencia,    Colombia           13 00 N     81 30 W
Archipielago (island group)
San Bernardino Strait        Pacific Ocean      12 32 N     124 10 E
San Felix, Isla (island)     Chile              26 17 S     80 05 W
San Jose (capital)           Costa Rica         9 56 N      84 05 W
San Juan (capital)           Puerto Rico        18 28 N     66 07 W
San Marino (capital)         San Marino         43 56 N     12 25 E
San Salvador (capital)       El Salvador        13 42 N     89 12 W
Sanaa (capital)              Yemen              15 21 N     44 12 E
Sandzak (region)             Montenegro, Serbia 43 05 N     19 45 E
Santa Cruz (city)            Bolivia            17 48 S     63 10 W
Santa Cruz Islands           Solomon Islands    11 00 S     166 15 E
Santa Sede (local name for   Holy See           41 54 N     12 27 E
the Holy See)
Santiago (capital)           Chile              33 27 S     70 40 W
Santo Antao (island)         Cape Verde         17 05 N     25 10 W
Santo Domingo (capital)      Dominican Republic 18 28 N     69 54 W
Sao Paulo (city)             Brazil             23 35 S     46 43 W
Sao Pedro e Sao Paulo,       Brazil             0 23 N      29 23 W
Penedos de (rocks)
Sao Tiago (island)           Cape Verde         15 05 N     23 40 W
Sao Tome (island)            Sao Tome and       0 12 N      6 39 E
                             Principe
Sapporo (city)               Japan              43 04 N     141 20 E
Sapudi Strait                Pacific Ocean      7 05 S      114 10 E
Sarajevo (capital)           Bosnia and         43 52 N     18 25 E
                             Herzegovina
Sarawak (state)              Malaysia           2 30 N      113 30 E
Sardinia (island)            Italy              40 00 N     9 00 E
Sargasso Sea (region)        Atlantic Ocean     30 00 N     55 00 W
Sark (island)                Guernsey           49 26 N     2 21 W
Savage Island (former name   Niue               19 02 S     169 52 W
for Niue)
Savu Sea                     Pacific Ocean      9 30 S      122 00 E
Saxony (region)              Germany            51 00 N     13 00 E
Schleswig-Holstein (region)  Germany            54 31 N     9 33 E
Schweiz (local German name   Switzerland        47 00 N     8 00 E
for Switzerland)
Scopus, Mount                Israel, West Bank  31 48 N     35 14 E
Scotia Sea                   Atlantic Ocean,    56 00 S     40 00 W
                             Southern Ocean
Scotland (region)            United Kingdom     57 00 N     4 00 W
Scott Island                 Antarctica         67 24 S     179 55 W
Senegambia (region; former   The Gambia,        13 50 N     15 25 W
name of confederation of     Senegal
Senegal and The Gambia)
Senyavin Islands             Federated States   6 55 N      158 00 E
                             of Micronesia
Seoul (capital)              South Korea        37 34 N     127 00 E
Serendib (former name for    Sri Lanka          7 00 N      81 00 E
Sri Lanka)
Serrana Bank (shoal)         Colombia           14 25 N     80 16 W
Serranilla Bank (shoal)      Colombia           15 51 N     79 46 W
Settlement, The (capital)    Christmas Island   10 25 S     105 43 E
Severnaya Zemlya (island     Russia             79 30 N     98 00 E
group; also Northland)
Shaba (region)               Democratic         8 00 S      27 00 E
                             Republic of the
                             Congo
Shag Island                  Heard Island and   53 00 S     72 30 E
                             McDonald Islands
Shag Rocks                   South Georgia and  53 33 S     42 02 W
                             the South Sandwich
                             Islands
Shanghai (city)              China              31 14 N     121 30 E
Shenyang (city; also Mukden) China              41 46 N     123 24 E
Shetland Islands             United Kingdom     60 30 N     1 30 W
Shikoku (island)             Japan              33 45 N     133 30 E
Shikotan (island)            Russia (de facto)  43 47 N     146 45 E
Shqiperia (local name for    Albania            41 00 N     20 00 E
Albania)
Siam (former name for        Thailand           15 00 N     100 00 E
Thailand)
Siberia (region)             Russia             60 00 N     100 00 E
Sibutu Passage               Pacific Ocean      4 50 N      119 35 E
Sicily (island)              Italy              37 30 N     14 00 E
Sicily, Strait of            Atlantic Ocean     37 20 N     11 20 E
Sidra, Gulf of               Atlantic Ocean     31 30 N     18 00 E
Sikkim (state)               India              27 50 N     88 30 E
Silesia (region)             Czech Republic,    51 00 N     17 00 E
                             Germany, Poland
Sinai Peninsula              Egypt              29 30 N     34 00 E
Singapore (capital)          Singapore          1 17 N      103 51 E
Singapore Strait             Pacific Ocean      1 15 N      104 00 E
Sinkiang (autonomous region; China              42 00 N     86 00 E
also Xinjiang)
Sint Eustatius (island)      Netherlands        17 29 N     62 58 W
                             Antilles
Sint Maarten (island; also   Netherlands        18 04 N     63 04 W
Saint-Martin)                Antilles
Sjaelland (island)           Denmark            55 30 N     12 00 E
Skagerrak (strait)           Atlantic Ocean     57 45 N     9 00 E
Skopje (capital)             Macedonia          41 59 N     21 26 E
Slavonia (region)            Croatia            45 27 N     18 00 E
Slovenija (local name for    Slovenia           46 00 N     15 00 E
Slovenia)
Slovensko (local name for    Slovakia           48 40 N     19 30 E
Slovakia)
Smyrna (region; former name  Turkey             38 25 N     27 10 E
for Izmir)
Society Islands (Iles de la  French Polynesia   17 00 S     150 00 W
Societe)
Socotra (island)             Yemen              12 30 N     54 00 E
Sofia (capital)              Bulgaria           42 41 N     23 19 E
Solomon Islands, northern    Papua New Guinea   6 00 S      155 00 E
Solomon Islands, southern    Solomon Islands    8 00 S      159 00 E
Solomon Sea                  Pacific Ocean      8 00 S      153 00 E
Somaliland (region)          Somalia            9 30 N      46 00 E
Somers Islands (former name  Bermuda            32 20 N     64 45 W
for Bermuda)
Songkhla (city)              Thailand           7 12 N      100 36 E
Sound, The (strait; also     Atlantic Ocean     55 50 N     12 40 E
Oresund)
South Atlantic Ocean         Atlantic Ocean     30 00 S     15 00 W
South China Sea              Pacific Ocean      10 00 N     113 00 E
South Georgia (island)       South Georgia and  54 15 S     36 45 W
                             the South Sandwich
                             Islands
South Island                 New Zealand        43 00 S     171 00 E
South Korea                  South Korea        37 00 N     127 30 E
South Orkney Islands         Antarctica         61 00 S     45 00 W
South Ossetia (region)       Georgia            42 20 N     44 00 E
South Pacific Ocean          Pacific Ocean      30 00 S     130 00 W
South Sandwich Islands       South Georgia and  57 45 S     26 30 W
                             the South Sandwich
                             Islands
South Shetland Islands       Antarctica         62 00 S     59 00 W
South Tyrol (region)         Italy              46 30 N     10 30 E
South Vietnam (former name   Vietnam            12 00 N     108 00 E
for the southern portion of
Vietnam)
South Yemen (People's        Yemen              14 00 N     48 00 E
Democratic Republic of
Yemen; now part of Yemen)
South-West Africa (former    Namibia            22 00 S     17 00 E
name for Namibia)
Southern Grenadines (island  Grenada            12 20 N     61 30 W
group)
Southern Rhodesia (former    Zimbabwe           20 00 S     30 00 E
name for Zimbabwe)
Soviet Union (former name of Armenia,
a large Eurasian empire,     Azerbaijan,
roughly coequal with the     Belarus, Estonia,
former Russian Empire)       Georgia,
                             Kazakhstan,
                             Kyrgyzstan,
                             Latvia, Lithuania,
                             Moldova, Russia,
                             Tajikistan,
                             Turkmenistan,
                             Ukraine,
                             Uzbekistan
Spanish Guinea (former name  Equatorial Guinea  2 00 N      10 00 E
for Equatorial Guinea)
Spanish Morocco (former name Morocco            32 00 N     7 00 W
for northern Morocco)
Spanish North Africa         Spain (Ceuta,      35 15 N     4 00 W
(exclaves)                   Islas Chafarinas,
                             Melilla, Penon de
                             Alhucemas, Penon
                             de Velez de la
                             Gomera)
Spanish Sahara (former name) Western Sahara     24 30 N     13 00 W
Spanish West Africa (former  Morocco, Western   25 00 N     13 00 W
name for Ifni and Spanish    Sahara
Sahara)
Spice Islands (Moluccas)     Indonesia          2 00 S      28 00 E
Spitsbergen (island)         Svalbard           78 00 N     20 00 E
Srbija (local name for       Serbia             44 00 N     21 00 E
Serbia)
St. John's (city)            Canada             47 34 N     52 43 W
                             (Newfoundland)
Stanley (capital)            Falkland Islands   51 42 S     57 41 W
                             (Islas Malvinas)
Stockholm (capital)          Sweden             59 20 N     18 03 E
Strasbourg (city)            France             48 35 N     7 44 E
Stuttgart (city)             Germany            48 46 N     9 11 E
Sucre (constitutional        Bolivia            19 02 S     65 17 W
capital)
Suez Canal                   Egypt              29 55 N     32 33 E
Suez, Gulf of                Indian Ocean       28 10 N     33 27 E
Suisse (local French name    Switzerland        47 00 N     8 00 E
for Switzerland)
Sulawesi (island; Celebes)   Indonesia          2 00 S      121 00 E
Sulawesi Sea                 Pacific Ocean      3 00 N      122 00 E
Sulu Archipelago (island     Philippines        6 00 N      121 00 E
group)
Sulu Sea                     Pacific Ocean      8 00 N      120 00 E
Sumatra (island)             Indonesia          0 00 N      102 00 E
Sumba (island)               Indonesia          10 00 S     120 00 E
Sumba Strait                 Pacific Ocean      9 10 S      120 00 E
Sumbawa (island)             Indonesia          8 30 S      118 00 E
Sunda Islands (Soenda Isles) Indonesia,         2 00 S      110 00 E
                             Malaysia
Sunda Strait                 Indian Ocean       6 00 S      105 45 E
Suomi (local name for        Finland            64 00 N     26 00 E
Finland)
Surabaya (city)              Indonesia          7 13 S      112 45 E
Surigao Strait               Pacific Ocean      10 15 N     125 23 E
Surinam (former name for     Suriname           4 00 N      56 00 W
Suriname)
Suriyah (local name for      Syria              35 00 N     38 00 E
Syria)
Surtsey (volcanic island)    Iceland            63 17 N     20 40 W
Suva (capital)               Fiji               18 08 S     178 25 E
Sverdlovsk (city; also       Russia             56 50 N     60 39 E
Yekaterinburg)
Sverige (local name for      Sweden             62 00 N     15 00 E
Sweden)
Svizzera (local Italian name Switzerland        47 00 N     8 00 E
for Switzerland)
Swains Island                American Samoa     11 03 S     171 15 W
Swan Islands                 Honduras           17 25 S     83 56 W
Sydney (city)                Australia          33 53 S     151 13 E
T'bilisi (capital)           Georgia            41 43 N     44 49 E
Tadzhikistan (former name    Tajikistan         39 00 N     71 00 E
for Tajikistan)
Tahiti (island)              French Polynesia   17 37 S     149 27 W
Taipei (capital)             Taiwan             25 03 N     121 30 E
Taiwan Strait                Pacific Ocean      24 00 N     119 00 E
Tallinn (capital)            Estonia            59 25 N     24 45 E
Tanganyika (former name for  Tanzania           6 00 S      35 00 E
the mainland portion of
Tanzania)
Tangier (city)               Morocco            35 48 N     5 45 W
Tannu-Tuva (region)          Russia             51 25 N     94 45 E
Tarawa (island)              Kiribati           1 25 N      173 00 E
Tartary, Gulf of             Pacific Ocean      50 00 N     141 00 E
Tashkent (capital)           Uzbekistan         41 20 N     69 18 E
Tasman Sea                   Pacific Ocean      4 30 S      168 00 E
Tasmania (island)            Australia          43 00 S     147 00 E
Tatar Strait                 Pacific Ocean      50 00 N     141 00 E
Taymyr Peninsula (Poluostrov Russia             76 00 N     104 00 E
Taymyr)
Tchad (local name for Chad)  Chad               15 00 N     19 00 E
Tegucigalpa (capital)        Honduras           14 06 N     87 13 W
Tehran (capital)             Iran               35 40 N     51 26 E
Tel Aviv (capital, de facto) Israel             32 05 N     34 48 E
Teluk Bone (gulf)            Pacific Ocean      4 00 S      120 45 E
Teluk Tomini (gulf)          Pacific Ocean      0 30 S      121 00 E
Terre Adelie (claimed by     Antarctica         66 30 S     139 00 E
France; also Adelie Land)
Terres Australes et          French Southern    43 00 S     67 00 E
Antarctiques Francaises      and Antarctic
(local name for the French   Lands
Southern and Antarctic
Lands)
Thailand, Gulf of            Pacific Ocean      10 00 N     101 00 E
The Former Yugoslav Republic Macedonia          41 50 N     22 00 E
of Macedonia
Thessaloniki (city; also     Greece             40 38 N     22 57 E
Salonika)
Thimphu (capital)            Bhutan             27 28 N     89 39 E
Thuringia (region)           Germany            51 00 N     11 00 E
Thurston Island              Antarctica         72 20 S     99 00 W
Tiberias, Lake               Israel             32 48 N     35 35 E
Tibet (autonomous region;    China              32 00 N     90 00 E
also Xizang)
Tibilisi (see T'bilisi)      Georgia            41 43 N     44 49 E
Tien Shan (mountains)        China, Kyrgyzstan  42 00 N     80 00 E
Tierra del Fuego (island,    Argentina, Chile   54 00 S     69 00 W
island group)
Timor (island)               Timor-Leste,       9 00 S      125 00 E
                             Indonesia
Timor Lorosa'e (local name   Timor-Leste        9 00 N      126 00 E
for Timor-Leste)
Timor Sea                    Pacific Ocean      11 00 S     128 00 E
Tinian (island)              Northern Mariana   15 00 N     145 38 E
                             Islands
Tiran, Strait of             Indian Ocean       28 00 N     34 27 E
Tirana, Tirane (capital)     Albania            41 20 N     19 50 E
Tirol, Tyrol (region)        Austria, Italy     47 00 N     11 00 E
Tobago (island)              Trinidad and       11 15 N     60 40 W
                             Tobago
Tokyo (capital)              Japan              35 42 N     139 46 E
Tonkin, Gulf of              Pacific Ocean      20 00 N     108 00 E
Toronto (city)               Canada             43 40 N     79 23 W
Torres Strait                Pacific Ocean      10 25 S     142 10 E
Torshavn (capital)           Faroe Islands      62 01 N     6 46 W
Toshkent (see Tashkent)      Uzbekistan         41 20 N     69 18 E
Transcarpathia (region;      Ukraine            48 22 N     23 32 E
alternate name for Carpatho-
Ukraine)
Transjordan (former name for Jordan             31 00 N     36 00 E
Jordan)
Transkei (enclave)           South Africa       32 15 S     28 15 E
Transvaal (region; former    South Africa       25 10 S     29 25 E
name for northeastern South
Africa)
Transylvania (region)        Romania            46 30 N     24 00 E
Trindade, Ilha de (island)   Brazil             20 31 S     29 20 W
Trinidad (island)            Trinidad and       10 22 N     61 15 W
                             Tobago
Tripoli (capital)            Libya              32 54 N     13 11 E
Tripoli (city)               Lebanon            34 26 N     35 51 E
Tripolitania (region)        Libya              31 00 N     14 00 E
Tristan da Cunha Group       Saint Helena       37 15 S     12 30 W
(island group)
Trobriand Islands            Papua New Guinea   8 38 S      151 04 E
Trucial Coast (former name   United Arab        24 00 N     54 00 E
for the United Arab          Emirates
Emirates)
Trucial Oman (former name    United Arab        24 00 N     54 00 E
for the United Arab          Emirates
Emirates)
Trucial States (former name  United Arab        24 00 N     54 00 E
for the United Arab          Emirates
Emirates)
Truk Islands (former name    Federated States   7 25 N      151 47 E
for the Chuuk Islands)       of Micronesia
Tsugaru Strait               Pacific Ocean      41 35 N     141 00 E
Tuamotu Islands (Iles        French Polynesia   19 00 S     142 00 W
Tuamotu)
Tubuai Islands (Iles Tubuai) French Polynesia   23 00 S     150 00 W
Tunb al Kubra (island)       Iran               26 14 N     55 19 E
Tunb as Sughra (island)      Iran               26 14 N     55 09 E
Tunis (capital)              Tunisia            36 48 N     10 11 E
Turin (city)                 Italy              45 04 N     7 40 E
Turkish Straits (see         Atlantic Ocean     40 40 N     28 00 E
Bosporus and Dardenelles)
Turkiye (local name for      Turkey             39 00 N     35 00 E
Turkey)
Turkmenia, Turkmeniya        Turkmenistan       40 00 N     60 00 E
(former name for
Turkmenistan)
Turks Island Passage         Atlantic Ocean     21 40 N     71 00 W
Tuscany (region)             Italy              43 25 N     11 00 E
Tutuila (island)             American Samoa     14 18 S     170 42 W
Tyrrhenian Sea               Atlantic Ocean     40 00 N     12 00 E
Ubangi-Shari (former name    Central African    6 38 N      20 33 E
for the Central African      Republic
Republic
Ukrayina (local name for     Ukraine            49 00 N     32 00 E
Ukraine)
Ulaanbaatar (capital)        Mongolia           47 55 N     106 53 E
Ullung-do (island)           South Korea        37 29 N     130 52 E
Ulster (region)              Ireland, United    54 35 N     7 00 W
                             Kingdom
Uman (local name for Oman)   Oman               21 00 N     57 00 E
Unimak Pass (strait)         Pacific Ocean      54 20 N     164 50 W
Union of Soviet Socialist    Armenia,
Republics or USSR (former    Azerbaijan,
name of a large Eurasian     Belarus, Estonia,
empire, roughly coequal with Georgia,
the former Russian Empire)   Kazakhstan,
                             Kyrgyzstan,
                             Latvia, Lithuania,
                             Moldova, Russia,
                             Tajikistan,
                             Turkmenistan,
                             Ukraine,
                             Uzbekistan
United Arab Republic or UAR  Egypt, Syria
(former name for a
federation between Egypt and
Syria)
Upper Volta (former name for Burkina Faso       13 00 N     2 00 W
Burkina Faso)
Ural Mountains               Kazakhstan, Russia 60 00 N     60 00 E
Urdunn (local name for       Jordan             31 00 N     36 00 E
Jordan)
Urundi (former name for      Burundi            3 30 S      30 00 E
Burundi)
Ussuri River                 China, Russia      48 28 N     135 02 E
Vaduz (capital)              Liechtenstein      47 09 N     9 31 E
Vakhan (Wakhan Corridor)     Afghanistan        37 00 N     73 00 E
Valletta (capital)           Malta              35 54 N     14 31 E
Valley, The (capital)        Anguilla           18 13 N     63 04 W
Van Diemen Strait (Osumi     Pacific Ocean      31 00 N     131 00 E
Strait)
Vancouver (city)             Canada             49 16 N     123 08 W
Vancouver Island             Canada             49 45 N     126 00 W
Vatican City (capital)       Holy See           41 54 N     12 27 E
Velez de la Gomera, Penon de Spain              35 11 N     4 18 W
(island)
Venda (enclave)              South Africa       23 00 S     31 00 E
Verde Island Passage         Pacific Ocean      13 34 N     120 51 E
Victoria (capital)           Seychelles         4 38 S      55 27 E
Victoria (island)            Canada             71 00 N     110 00 W
Victoria Land (region)       Antarctica         72 00 S     155 00 E
Vienna (capital)             Austria            48 12 N     16 22 E
Vientiane (capital)          Laos               17 58 N     102 36 E
Vilnius (capital)            Lithuania          54 41 N     25 19 E
Viti Levu (island)           Fiji               18 00 S     178 00 E
Vladivostok (city)           Russia             43 10 N     131 56 E
Vojvodina (region)           Serbia             45 35 N     20 00 E
Volcano Islands              Japan              25 00 N     141 00 E
Vostok Island                Kiribati           10 06 S     152 23 W
Wake Atoll                   Wake Island        19 17 N     166 39 E
Wakhan Corridor (see Vakhan) Afghanistan        37 00 N     73 00 E
Walachia (region)            Romania            44 45 N     26 05 E
Wales (region)               United Kingdom     52 30 N     3 30 W
Wallis Islands               Wallis and Futuna  13 17 S     176 10 W
Walvis Bay (city; former     Namibia            22 59 S     14 31 E
exclave)
Warsaw (capital)             Poland             52 15 N     21 00 E
Washington, DC (capital)     United States      38 53 N     77 02 W
Weddell Sea                  Southern Ocean     72 00 S     45 00 W
Wellington (capital)         New Zealand        41 28 S     174 51 E
West Frisian Islands         Netherlands        53 26 N     5 30 E
West Germany (Federal        Germany            53 22 N     5 20 E
Republic of Germany; former
name for western portion of
Germany)
West Island (capital)        Cocos (Keeling)    12 10 S     96 55 E
                             Islands
West Korea Strait (Western   Pacific Ocean      34 40 N     129 00 E
Channel)
West Pakistan (former name   Pakistan           30 00 N     70 00 E
for present-day Pakistan)
West Siberian Plain          Russia             60 00 N     75 00 E
Western Channel (West Korea  Pacific Ocean      34 40 N     129 00 E
Strait)
Western Samoa (former name   Samoa              13 35 S     172 20 W
for Samoa)
Wetar Strait                 Pacific Ocean      8 20 S      126 30 E
White Sea                    Arctic Ocean       65 30 N     38 00 E
Wilkes Land (region)         Antarctica         71 00 S     120 00 E
Willemstad (capital)         Netherlands        12 06 N     68 56 W
                             Antilles
Windhoek (capital)           Namibia            22 34 S     17 06 E
Windward Passage             Atlantic Ocean     20 00 N     73 50 W
Winnipeg (city)              Canada             49 53 N     97 10 W
Wrangel Island (Ostrov       Russia             71 14 N     179 36 W
Vrangelya)
Xianggang (local name for    Hong Kong          22 15 N     114 10 E
Hong Kong)
Y'israel (local name for     Israel             31 30 N     34 45 E
Israel)
Yaitopya (local name for     Ethiopia           8 00 N      38 00 E
Ethiopia)
Yalu River                   China, North Korea 39 55 N     124 20 E
Yamoussoukro (capital)       Cote d'Ivoire      6 49 N      5 17 W
Yangon (see Rangoon)         Burma              16 47 N     96 10 E
Yaounde (capital)            Cameroon           3 52 N      11 31 E
Yap Islands                  Federated States   9 30 N      138 00 E
                             of Micronesia
Yaren (governmental center)  Nauru              0 32 S      166 55 E
Yekaterinburg (city;         Russia             56 50 N     60 39 E
formerly Sverdlovsk)
Yellow Sea                   Pacific Ocean      36 00 N     123 00 E
Yemen Arab Republic (also    Yemen              15 00 N     44 00 E
Yemen (Sanaa); former name
for northern portion of
Yemen)
Yemen, People's Democratic   Yemen              14 00 N     46 00 E
Republic of (also Yemen
(Aden); former name for
southern portion of Yemen)
Yerevan (capital)            Armenia            40 11 N     44 30 E
Yokohama (city)              Japan              35 26 N     139 37 E
Youth, Isle of (Isla de la   Cuba               21 40 N     82 50 W
Juventud)
Yucatan Channel              Atlantic Ocean     21 45 N     85 45 W
Yucatan Peninsula            Mexico             19 30 N     89 00 W
Yugoslavia (former name for  Montenegro, Serbia 43 00 N     21 00 E
a federation of Serbia and
Montenegro)
Yugoslavia, Kingdom of       Bosnia and         43 00 N     19 00 E
(former name for a Balkan    Herzegovina,
federation)                  Croatia,
                             Macedonia,
                             Montenegro,
                             Serbia, Slovenia
Yugoslavia, Socialist        Bosnia and         43 00 N     19 00 E
Federal Republic of (former  Herzegovina,
name for a Balkan            Croatia,
federation)                  Macedonia,
                             Montenegro,
                             Serbia, Slovenia
Zagreb (capital)             Croatia            45 48 N     15 58 E
Zaire (former name for the   Democratic         15 00 S     30 00 E
Democratic Republic of the   Republic of the
Congo)                       Congo
Zakhalinskiy Zaliv (bay)     Pacific Ocean      54 00 N     142 00 E
Zaliv Shelikhova (bay)       Pacific Ocean      60 00 N     157 30 E
Zambezia (region)            Mozambique         16 00 S     37 00 E
Zanzibar (island)            Tanzania           6 10 S      39 11 E
Zhong Guo, Zhonghua (local   China              35 00 N     105 00 E
name for China)
Zion, Mount (locale in       Israel, West Bank  31 46 N     35 14 E
Jerusalem)
Zurich (city)                Switzerland        47 23 N     8 32 E


This page was last updated on 18 December, 2008



=====================================================================



Appendix G - Weights and Measures


Note: At this time, only three countries - Burma, Liberia, and
the US - have not adopted the International System of Units (SI,
or metric system) as their official system of weights and
measures. Although use of the metric system has been sanctioned
by law in the US since 1866, it has been slow in displacing the
American adaptation of the British Imperial System known as the
US Customary System. The US is the only industrialized nation
that does not mainly use the metric system in its commercial and
standards activities, but there is increasing acceptance in
science, medicine, government, and many sectors of industry.



Mathematical Notation


  Mathematical Power                               Name

  10^18 or 1,000,000,000,000,000,000               one quintillion
  10^15 or 1,000,000,000,000,000                   one quadrillion
  10^12 or 1,000,000,000,000                       one trillion
  10^9 or 1,000,000,000                            one billion
  10^6 or 1,000,000                                one million
  10^3 or 1,000                                    one thousand
  10^2 or 100                                      one hundred
  10^1 or 10                                       ten
  10^0 or 1                                        one
  10^-1 or 0.1                                     one-tenth
  10^-2 or 0.01                                    one-hundredth
  10^-3 or 0.001                                   one-thousandth
  10^-6 or 0.000 001                               one-millionth
  10^-9 or 0.000 000 001                           one-billionth
  10^-12 or 0.000 000 000 001                      one-trillionth
  10^-15 or 0.000 000 000 000 001                  one-quadrillionth
  10^-18 or 0.000 000 000 000 000 001              one-quintillionth


Metric Interrelationships

  Prefix           Symbol        Length, weight, or capacity

  yotta            Y             10^24
  zetta            Z             10^21
  exa              E             10^18
  peta             P             10^15
  tera             T             10^12
  giga             G             10^9
  mega             M             10^6
  kilo             k             10^3
  hecto            h             10^2
  deka             da            10^1
  basic unit       -             1 meter, 1 gram, 1 liter
  deci             d             10^-1
  centi            c             10^-2
  milli            m             10^-3
  micro            u             10^-6
  nano             n             10^-9
  pico             p             10^-12
  femto            f             10^-15
  atto             a             10^-18
  zepto            z             10^-21
  yocto            y             10^-24



Conversion Factors


To Convert From             To                          Multiply By

acres                       ares                        40.468 564 224
acres                       hectares                    0.404 685 642 24
acres                       square feet                 43,560
acres                       square kilometers           0.004 046 856 422 4
acres                       square meters               4,046.856 422 4
acres                       square miles (statute)      0.001 562 50
acres                       square yards                4,840
ares                        square meters               100
ares                        square yards                119.599
barrels, US beer            gallons                     31
barrels, US beer            liters                      117.347 77
barrels, US petroleum       gallons (British)           34.97
barrels, US petroleum       gallons (US)                42
barrels, US petroleum       liters                      158.987 29
barrels, US proof spirits   gallons                     40
barrels, US proof spirits   liters                      151.416 47
bushels (US)                bushels (British)           0.968 9
bushels (US)                cubic feet                  1.244 456
bushels (US)                cubic inches                2,150.42
bushels (US)                cubic meters                0.035 239 07
bushels (US)                cubic yards                 0.046 090 96
bushels (US)                dekaliters                  3.523 907
bushels (US)                dry pints                   64
bushels (US)                dry quarts                  32
bushels (US)                liters                      35.239 070 17
bushels (US)                pecks                       4
cables                      fathoms                     120
cables                      meters                      219.456
cables                      yards                       240
carat                       milligrams                  200
centimeters                 feet                        0.032 808 40
centimeters                 inches                      0.393 700 8
centimeters                 meters                      0.01
centimeters                 yards                       0.010 936 13
centimeters, cubic          cubic inches                0.061 023 744
centimeters, square         square feet                 0.001 076 39
centimeters, square         square inches               0.155 000 31
centimeters, square         square meters               0.000 1
centimeters, square         square yards                0.000 119 599
chains, square surveyor's   ares                        4.046 86
chains, square surveyor's   square feet                 4,356
chains, surveyor's          feet                        66
chains, surveyor's          meters                      20.116 8
chains, surveyor's          rods                        4
cords of wood               cubic feet                  128
cords of wood               cubic meters                3.624 556
cords of wood               cubic yards                 4.740 7
cups                        liquid ounces (US)          8
cups                        liters                      0.236 588 2
degrees Celsius             degrees Fahrenheit          multiply by 1.8 and add 32
degrees Fahrenheit          degrees Celsius             subtract 32 and divide by 1.8
dekaliters                  bushels                     0.283 775 9
dekaliters                  cubic feet                  0.353 146 7
dekaliters                  cubic inches                610.237 4
dekaliters                  dry pints                   18.161 66
dekaliters                  dry quarts                  9.080 829 8
dekaliters                  liters                      10
dekaliters                  pecks                       1.135 104
drams, avoirdupois          avoirdupois ounces          0.062 55
drams, avoirdupois          grains                      27.344
drams, avoirdupois          grams                       1.771 845 2
drams, troy                 grains                      60
drams, troy                 grams                       3.887 934 6
drams, troy                 scruples                    3
drams, troy                 troy ounces                 0.125
drams, liquid (US)          cubic inches                0.226
drams, liquid (US)          liquid drams (British)      1.041
drams, liquid (US)          liquid ounces               0.125
drams, liquid (US)          milliliters                 3.696 69
drams, liquid (US)          minims                      60
fathoms                     feet                        6
fathoms                     meters                      1.828 8
feet                        centimeters                 30.48
feet                        inches                      12
feet                        kilometers                  0.000 304 8
feet                        meters                      0.304 8
feet                        statute miles               0.000 189 39
feet                        yards                       0.333 333 3
feet, cubic                 bushels                     0.803 563 95
feet, cubic                 cubic decimeters            28.316 847
feet, cubic                 cubic inches                1,728
feet, cubic                 cubic meters                0.028 316 846 592
feet, cubic                 cubic yards                 0.037 037 04
feet, cubic                 dry pints                   51.428 09
feet, cubic                 dry quarts                  25.714 05
feet, cubic                 gallons                     7.480 519
feet, cubic                 gills                       239.376 6
feet, cubic                 liquid ounces               957.506 5
feet, cubic                 liquid pints                59.844 16
feet, cubic                 liquid quarts               29.922 08
feet, cubic                 liters                      28.316 846 592
feet, cubic                 pecks                       3.214 256
feet, square                acres                       0.000 022 956 8
feet, square                square centimeters          929.030 4
feet, square                square decimeters           9.290 304
feet, square                square inches               144
feet, square                square meters               0.092 903 04
feet, square                square yards                0.111 111 1
furlongs                    feet                        660
furlongs                    inches                      7,920
furlongs                    meters                      201.168
furlongs                    statute miles               0.125
furlongs                    yards                       220
gallons, liquid (US)        cubic feet                  0.133 680 6
gallons, liquid (US)        cubic inches                231
gallons, liquid (US)        cubic meters                0.003 785 411 784
gallons, liquid (US)        cubic yards                 0.004 951 13
gallons, liquid (US)        gills (US)                  32
gallons, liquid (US)        liquid gallons (British)    0.832 67
gallons, liquid (US)        liquid ounces               128
gallons, liquid (US)        liquid pints                8
gallons, liquid (US)        liquid quarts               4
gallons, liquid (US)        liters                      3.785 411 784
gallons, liquid (US)        milliliters                 3,785.411 784
gallons, liquid (US)        minims                      61,440
gills (US)                  centiliters                 11.829 4
gills (US)                  cubic feet                  0.004 177 517
gills (US)                  cubic inches                7.218 75
gills (US)                  gallons                     0.031 25
gills (US)                  gills (British)             0.832 67
gills (US)                  liquid ounces               4
gills (US)                  liquid pints                0.25
gills (US)                  liquid quarts               0.125
gills (US)                  liters                      0.118 294 118 25
gills (US)                  milliliters                 118.294 118 25
gills (US)                  minims                      1,920
grains                      avoirdupois drams           0.036 571 43
grains                      avoirdupois ounces          0.002 285 71
grains                      avoirdupois pounds          0.000 142 86
grains                      grams                       0.064 798 91
grains                      kilograms                   0.000 064 798 91
grains                      milligrams                  64.798 910
grains                      pennyweights                0.042
grains                      scruples                    0.05
grains                      troy drams                  0.016 6
grains                      troy ounces                 0.002 083 33
grains                      troy pounds                 0.000 173 61
grams                       avoirdupois drams           0.564 383 39
grams                       avoirdupois ounces          0.035 273 961
grams                       avoirdupois pounds          0.002 204 622 6
grams                       grains                      15.432 361
grams                       kilograms                   0.001
grams                       milligrams                  1,000
grams                       troy ounces                 0.032 150 746 6
grams                       troy pounds                 0.002 679 23
hands (height of horse)     centimeters                 10.16
hands (height of horse)     inches                      4
hectares                    acres                       2.471 053 8
hectares                    square feet                 107,639.1
hectares                    square kilometers           0.01
hectares                    square meters               10,000
hectares                    square miles                0.003 861 02
hectares                    square yards                11,959.90
hundredweights, long        avoirdupois pounds          112
hundredweights, long        kilograms                   50.802 345
hundredweights, long        long tons                   0.05
hundredweights, long        metric tons                 0.050 802 345
hundredweights, long        short tons                  0.056
hundredweights, short       avoirdupois pounds          100
hundredweights, short       kilograms                   45.359 237
hundredweights, short       long tons                   0.044 642 86
hundredweights, short       metric tons                 0.045 359 237
hundredweights, short       short tons                  0.05
inches                      centimeters                 2.54
inches                      feet                        0.083 333 33
inches                      meters                      0.025 4
inches                      millimeters                 25.4
inches                      yards                       0.027 777 78
inches, cubic               bushels                     0.000 465 025
inches, cubic               cubic centimeters           16.387 064
inches, cubic               cubic feet                  0.000 578 703 7
inches, cubic               cubic meters                0.000 016 387 064
inches, cubic               cubic yards                 0.000 021 433 47
inches, cubic               dry pints                   0.029 761 6
inches, cubic               dry quarts                  0.014 880 8
inches, cubic               gallons                     0.004 329 0
inches, cubic               gills                       0.138 528 1
inches, cubic               liquid ounces               0.554 112 6
inches, cubic               liquid pints                0.034 632 03
inches, cubic               liquid quarts               0.017 316 02
inches, cubic               liters                      0.016 387 064
inches, cubic               milliliters                 16.387 064
inches, cubic               minims (US)                 265.974 0
inches, cubic               pecks                       0.001 860 10
inches, square              square centimeters          6.451 600
inches, square              square feet                 0.006 944 44
inches, square              square meters               0.000 645 16
inches, square              square yards                0.000 771 605
kilograms                   avoirdupois drams           564.383 4
kilograms                   avoirdupois ounces          35.273 962
kilograms                   avoirdupois pounds          2.204 622 622
kilograms                   grains                      15,432.36
kilograms                   grams                       1,000
kilograms                   long tons                   0.000 984 2
kilograms                   metric tons                 0.001
kilograms                   short hundredweights        0.022 046 23
kilograms                   short tons                  0.001 102 31
kilograms                   troy ounces                 32.150 75
kilograms                   troy pounds                 2.679 229
kilometers                  meters                      1,000
kilometers                  statute miles               0.621 371 192
kilometers, square          acres                       247.105 38
kilometers, square          hectares                    100
kilometers, square          square meters               1,000,000
kilometers, square          statute miles               0.386 102 16
knots (nautical mi/hr)      kilometers/hour             1.852
knots (nautical mi/hr)      statute miles/hour          1.151
leagues, nautical           kilometers                  5.556
leagues, nautical           nautical miles              3
leagues, statute            kilometers                  4.828 032
leagues, statute            statute miles               3
links, square surveyor's    square centimeters          404.686
links, square surveyor's    square inches               62.726 4
links, surveyor's           centimeters                 20.116 8
links, surveyor's           chains                      0.01
links, surveyor's           inches                      7.92
liters                      bushels                     0.028 377 59
liters                      cubic feet                  0.035 314 67
liters                      cubic inches                61.023 74
liters                      cubic meters                0.001
liters                      cubic yards                 0.001 307 95
liters                      dekaliters                  0.1
liters                      dry pints                   1.816 166
liters                      dry quarts                  0.908 082 98
liters                      gallons                     0.264 172 052
liters                      gills (US)                  8.453 506
liters                      liquid ounces               33.814 02
liters                      liquid pints                2.113 376
liters                      liquid quarts               1.056 688 2
liters                      milliliters                 1,000
liters                      pecks                       0.113 510 4
meters                      centimeters                 100
meters                      feet                        3.280 839 895
meters                      inches                      39.370 079
meters                      kilometers                  0.001
meters                      millimeters                 1,000
meters                      statute miles               0.000 621 371
meters                      yards                       1.093 613 298
meters, cubic               bushels                     28.377 59
meters, cubic               cubic feet                  35.314 666 7
meters, cubic               cubic inches                61,023.744
meters, cubic               cubic yards                 1.307 950 619
meters, cubic               gallons                     264.172 05
meters, cubic               liters                      1,000
meters, cubic               pecks                       113.510 4
meters, square              acres                       0.000 247 105 38
meters, square              hectares                    0.000 1
meters, square              square centimeters          10,000
meters, square              square feet                 10.763 910 4
meters, square              square inches               1,550.003 1
meters, square              square yards                1.195 990 046
microns                     meters                      0.000 001
microns                     inches                      0.000 039 4
mils                        inches                      0.001
mils                        millimeters                 0.025 4
miles, nautical             kilometers                  1.852 0
miles, nautical             statute miles               1.150 779 4
miles, statute              centimeters                 160,934.4
miles, statute              feet                        5,280
miles, statute              furlongs                    8
miles, statute              inches                      63,360
miles, statute              kilometers                  1.609 344
miles, statute              meters                      1,609.344
miles, statute              rods                        320
miles, statute              yards                       1,760
miles, square nautical      square kilometers           3.429 904
miles, square nautical      square statute miles        1.325
miles, square statute       acres                       640
miles, square statute       hectares                    258.998 811 033 6
miles, square statute       sections                    1
miles, square statute       square kilometers           2.589 988 110 336
miles, square statute       square nautical miles       0.755 miles
miles, square statute       square rods                 102,400
milligrams                  grains                      0.015 432 358 35
milliliters                 cubic inches                0.061 023 744
milliliters                 gallons                     0.000 264 17
milliliters                 gills (US)                  0.008 453 5
milliliters                 liquid ounces               0.033 814 02
milliliters                 liquid pints                0.002 113 4
milliliters                 liquid quarts               0.001 056 7
milliliters                 liters                      0.001
milliliters                 minims                      16.230 73
millimeters                 inches                      0.039 370 078 7
minims (US)                 cubic inches                0.003 759 77
minims (US)                 gills (US)                  0.000 520 83
minims (US)                 liquid ounces               0.002 083 33
minims (US)                 milliliters                 0.061 611 52
minims (US)                 minims (British)            1.041
ounces, avoirdupois         avoirdupois drams           16
ounces, avoirdupois         avoirdupois pounds          0.062 5
ounces, avoirdupois         grains                      437.5
ounces, avoirdupois         grams                       28.349 523 125
ounces, avoirdupois         kilograms                   0.028 349 523 125
ounces, avoirdupois         troy ounces                 0.911 458 3
ounces, avoirdupois         troy pounds                 0.075 954 86
ounces, liquid (US)         cubic feet                  0.001 044 38
ounces, liquid (US)         centiliters                 2.957 35
ounces, liquid (US)         cubic inches                1.804 687 5
ounces, liquid (US)         gallons                     0.007 812 5
ounces, liquid (US)         gills (US)                  0.25
ounces, liquid (US)         liquid drams                8
ounces, liquid (US)         liquid ounces (British)     1.041
ounces, liquid (US)         liquid pints                0.062 5
ounces, liquid (US)         liquid quarts               0.031 25
ounces, liquid (US)         liters                      0.029 573 53
ounces, liquid (US)         milliliters                 29.573 529 6
ounces, liquid (US)         minims                      480
ounces, troy                avoirdupois drams           17.554 29
ounces, troy                avoirdupois ounces          1.097 143
ounces, troy                avoirdupois pounds          0.068 571 43
ounces, troy                grains                      480
ounces, troy                grams                       31.103 476 8
ounces, troy                pennyweights                20
ounces, troy                troy drams                  8
ounces, troy                troy pounds                 0.083 333 3
paces (US)                  centimeters                 76.2
paces (US)                  inches                      30
pecks (US)                  bushels                     0.25
pecks (US)                  cubic feet                  0.311 114
pecks (US)                  cubic inches                537.605
pecks (US)                  cubic meters                0.008 809 77
pecks (US)                  cubic yards                 0.011 522 74
pecks (US)                  dekaliters                  0.880 976 75
pecks (US)                  dry pints                   16
pecks (US)                  dry quarts                  8
pecks (US)                  liters                      8.809 767 5
pecks (US)                  pecks (British)             0.968 9
pennyweights                grains                      24
pennyweights                grams                       1.555 173 84
pennyweights                troy ounces                 0.05
pints, dry (US)             bushels                     0.015 625
pints, dry (US)             cubic feet                  0.019 444 63
pints, dry (US)             cubic inches                33.600 312 5
pints, dry (US)             dekaliters                  0.055 061 05
pints, dry (US)             dry pints (British)         0.968 9
pints, dry (US)             dry quarts                  0.5
pints, dry (US)             liters                      0.550 610 47
pints, liquid (US)          cubic feet                  0.016 710 07
pints, liquid (US)          cubic inches                28.875
pints, liquid (US)          deciliters                  4.731 76
pints, liquid (US)          gallons                     0.125
pints, liquid (US)          gills (US)                  4
pints, liquid (US)          liquid ounces               16
pints, liquid (US)          liquid pints (British)      0.832 67
pints, liquid (US)          liquid quarts               0.5
pints, liquid (US)          liters                      0.473 176 473
pints, liquid (US)          milliliters                 473.176 473
pints, liquid (US)          minims                      7,680
points (typographical)      inches                      0.013 837
points (typographical)      millimeters                 0.351 459 8
pounds, avoirdupois         avoirdupois drams           256
pounds, avoirdupois         avoirdupois ounces          16
pounds, avoirdupois         grains                      7,000
pounds, avoirdupois         grams                       453.592 37
pounds, avoirdupois         kilograms                   0.453 592 37
pounds, avoirdupois         long tons                   0.000 446 428 6
pounds, avoirdupois         metric tons                 0.000 453 592 37
pounds, avoirdupois         quintals                    0.004 535 92
pounds, avoirdupois         short tons                  0.000 5
pounds, avoirdupois         troy ounces                 14.583 33
pounds, avoirdupois         troy pounds                 1.215 278
pounds, troy                avoirdupois drams           210.651 4
pounds, troy                avoirdupois ounces          13.165 71
pounds, troy                avoirdupois pounds          0.822 857 1
pounds, troy                grains                      5,760
pounds, troy                grams                       373.241 721 6
pounds, troy                kilograms                   0.373 241 721 6
pounds, troy                pennyweights                240
pounds, troy                troy ounces                 12
quarts, dry (US)            bushels                     0.031 25
quarts, dry (US)            cubic feet                  0.038 889 25
quarts, dry (US)            cubic inches                67.200 625
quarts, dry (US)            dekaliters                  0.110 122 1
quarts, dry (US)            dry pints                   2
quarts, dry (US)            dry quarts (British)        0.968 9
quarts, dry (US)            liters                      1.101 221
quarts, dry (US)            pecks                       0.125
quarts, dry (US)            pints, dry (US)             2
quarts, liquid (US)         cubic feet                  0.033 420 14
quarts, liquid (US)         cubic inches                57.75
quarts, liquid (US)         deciliters                  9.463 53
quarts, liquid (US)         gallons                     0.25
quarts, liquid (US)         gills (US)                  8
quarts, liquid (US)         liquid ounces               32
quarts, liquid (US)         liquid pints (US)           2
quarts, liquid (US)         liquid quarts (British)     0.832 67
quarts, liquid (US)         liters                      0.946 352 946
quarts, liquid (US)         milliliters                 946.352 946
quarts, liquid (US)         minims                      15,360
quintals                    avoirdupois pounds          220.462 26
quintals                    kilograms                   100
quintals                    metric tons                 0.1
rods                        feet                        16.5
rods                        meters                      5.029 2
rods                        yards                       5.5
rods, square                acres                       0.006 25
rods, square                square meters               25.292 85
rods, square                square yards                30.25
scruples                    grains                      20
scruples                    grams                       1.295 978 2
scruples                    troy drams                  0.333
sections (US)               square kilometers           2.589 988 1
sections (US)               square statute miles        1
spans                       centimeters                 22.86
spans                       inches                      9
steres                      cubic meters                1
steres                      cubic yards                 1.307 95
tablespoons                 milliliters                 14.786 76
tablespoons                 teaspoons                   3
teaspoons                   milliliters                 4.928 922
teaspoons                   tablespoons                 0.333 333
ton-miles, long             metric ton-kilometers       1.635 169
ton-miles, short            metric ton-kilometers       1.459 972
tons, gross register        cubic feet of permanently
                            enclosed space              100
tons, gross register        cubic meters of permanently
                            enclosed space              2.831 684 7
tons, long (deadweight)     avoirdupois ounces          35,840
tons, long (deadweight)     avoirdupois pounds          2,240
tons, long (deadweight)     kilograms                   1,016.046 909 8
tons, long (deadweight)     long hundredweights         20
tons, long (deadweight)     metric tons                 1.016 046 908 8
tons, long (deadweight)     short hundredweights        22.4
tons, long (deadweight)     short tons                  1.12
tons, metric                avoirdupois pounds          2,204.623
tons, metric                kilograms                   1,000
tons, metric                long hundredweights         19.684 130 3
tons, metric                long tons                   0.984 206 5
tons, metric                quintals                    10
tons, metric                short hundredweights        22.046 23
tons, metric                short tons                  1.102 311 3
tons, metric                troy ounces                 32,150.75
tons, net register          cubic feet of permanently
                            enclosed space for cargo
                            and passengers              100
tons, net register          cubic meters of permanently
                            enclosed space for cargo
                            and passengers              2.831 684 7
tons, shipping              cubic feet of permanently
                            enclosed cargo space        42
tons, shipping              cubic meters of permanently
                            enclosed cargo space        1.189 307 574
tons, short                 avoirdupois pounds          2,000
tons, short                 kilograms                   907.184 74
tons, short                 long hundredweights         17.857 14
tons, short                 long tons                   0.892 857 1
tons, short                 metric tons                 0.907 184 74
tons, short                 short hundredweights        20
townships (US)              sections                    36
townships (US)              square kilometers           93.239 572
townships (US)              square statute miles        36
miles, square statute       acres                       640
miles, square statute       hectares                    258.998 811 033 6
miles, square statute       square feet                 27,878,400
miles, square statute       square meters               2,589,988.110 336
miles, square statute       square yards                3,097,600
yards                       centimeters                 91.44
yards                       feet                        3
yards                       inches                      36
yards                       meters                      0.914 4
yards                       miles                       0.000 568 18
yards, cubic                bushels                     21.696 227
yards, cubic                cubic feet                  27
yards, cubic                cubic inches                46,656
yards, cubic                cubic meters                0.764 554 857 984
yards, cubic                gallons                     201.974 0
yards, cubic                liters                      764.554 857 984
yards, cubic                pecks                       86.784 91
yards, square               acres                       0.000 206 611 6
yards, square               hectares                    0.000 083 612 736
yards, square               square centimeters          8,361.273 6
yards, square               square feet                 9
yards, square               square inches               1,296
yards, square               square meters               0.836 127 36
yards, square               square miles                0.000 000 322 830 6


This page was last updated on 21 February, 2008



=====================================================================








End of the Tamil Bookshelf EBook of The 2008 CIA World Factbook, by 
United States.  Central Intelligence Agency.

*** END OF THIS Tamil Bookshelf EBOOK THE 2008 CIA WORLD FACTBOOK ***

***** This file should be named 29233-8.txt or 29233-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.tamilbookshelf.in/2/9/2/3/29233/

Produced by Al Haines

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Tamil Bookshelf-tm electronic works to
protect the Tamil Bookshelf-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL Tamil Bookshelf LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Tamil Bookshelf-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://tamilbookshelf.in/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Tamil Bookshelf-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Tamil Bookshelf-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Tamil Bookshelf-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Tamil Bookshelf" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Tamil Bookshelf-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Tamil Bookshelf-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Tamil Bookshelf Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Tamil Bookshelf
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Tamil Bookshelf-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Tamil Bookshelf-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Tamil Bookshelf:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Tamil Bookshelf-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Tamil Bookshelf-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Tamil Bookshelf" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:



1.E.2.  If an individual Tamil Bookshelf-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Tamil Bookshelf" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Tamil Bookshelf-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Tamil Bookshelf-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Tamil Bookshelf-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Tamil Bookshelf-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Tamil Bookshelf-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Tamil Bookshelf-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Tamil Bookshelf-tm web site (www.tamilbookshelf.in),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Tamil Bookshelf-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Tamil Bookshelf-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Tamil Bookshelf-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Tamil Bookshelf-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Tamil Bookshelf-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Tamil Bookshelf Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Tamil Bookshelf Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Tamil Bookshelf Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Tamil Bookshelf-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Tamil Bookshelf-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Tamil Bookshelf-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Tamil Bookshelf-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Tamil Bookshelf Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Tamil Bookshelf-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Tamil Bookshelf volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Tamil Bookshelf-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Tamil Bookshelf-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Tamil Bookshelf-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Tamil Bookshelf-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Tamil Bookshelf-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Tamil Bookshelf-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Tamil Bookshelf-tm

Tamil Bookshelf-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Tamil Bookshelf-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Tamil Bookshelf-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Tamil Bookshelf-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Tamil Bookshelf Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Tamil Bookshelf Literary Archive
Foundation

The Tamil Bookshelf Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Tamil Bookshelf
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Tamil Bookshelf
Literary Archive Foundation

Tamil Bookshelf-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Tamil Bookshelf Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Tamil Bookshelf-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Tamil Bookshelf-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Tamil Bookshelf-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.tamilbookshelf.in

This Web site includes information about Tamil Bookshelf-tm,
including how to make donations to the Tamil Bookshelf Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
